ParlaMint-UA_2013-06-18-m1.u1	People's deputies, please prepare for registration. Turn on the "Race" system. [[16:01:03]] There are 304 national deputies registered in the hall. I declare the evening session of the Supreme Council of Ukraine open. Ladies and gentlemen, we now have the Minister of Finance, Mr. Kolobov Yuri Volodymyrovich, who has come to present a report on the implementation of the Ukrainian Act "On Ukraine's State Budget for 2012" (project registration number 2688). The rules of procedure for this matter have been approved by you and me. Minister of Finance of Ukraine Kolobov Yuri Volodymyrovich is now invited to the rostrum. Please. From what you are saying, the minister will also now inform about the state of health of the first deputy minister of Merkovsky’s finances.
ParlaMint-UA_2013-06-18-m1.u2	Good afternoon, distinguished national MPs! A report on the implementation of the 2012 budget has been prepared by the Government in accordance with the rules of the Budget Code. Macroeconomic indicators. In 29012, the year was very difficult because of an unfavourable external economic environment, a slow rise in the global economy actually 3.2 percent versus a 4 percent forecast. The recession in the Eurosona countries is minus 0.6 percent. Prices of black metals are lowered by 11.4 percent on the world market. Ukraine has managed to keep pace with economic growth through government reforms initiated by the President of Ukraine. real GDP growth was 0.2 percent, nominal GDP increased by 8.2 percent to 1.4 trillion dollars. Despite low inflation, 0.2 percent, the government has implemented policies to raise social standards and achieve a real wage increase of 14.4 percent, which is the highest in six years. The continuation of positive developments and the strengthening of the stability of the banking system contributed to the further restoration of the population's confidence in it and the expansion of the bank's resource base, which led to an increase of 80.6 billion dollars in total deposits, or a 16.4 percent increase. It's about income in the budget. An effective tax policy and tax administration improved the revenue component of the 2012 budget by 10 per cent, up to 346.1 billion dollars, the general budget by 8.9 per cent, to 289.6 billion dollars. In 2011, the value added tax increased by 7.4 percent, or 3.2 billion, to 46 billion dollars. In automatic mode, $23.2 billion or 50.5 percent of the total amount was compensated. At the end of 2012, there was no remainder of the termed VAT for compensation. It should be noted that in 2012, Ukraine’s annual competitiveness rating of the economies of the World Economic Forum rose by 9 positions. The rating is the ease of doing business at 15 points. In the tax system rating, 16 places. Budget expenditure. To implement President Viktor Yanukovic of Ukraine's programme, Wealthy Society. A competitive economy. An effective state" and its social initiatives were provided to finance higher social indicators and investment expenditure. In 2012, government budget expenditure increased by 18.7 percent, to 395.7 billion dollars; from the general budget to 19.6 percent, to 343.6 billion dollars. The government has provided full funding at an adequate level over the course of the year for social expenditure. The cash social expenditure for the general budget increased by 44.3 billion in 2011 to 272.8 billion dollars. As part of the President's social initiatives, a gradual compensation was restored to the citizens for their lost savings and 4.6 billion dollars were paid. With the deterioration of the external environment, Ukraine’s budgetary policy in 2012 was also geared towards supporting and developing the economy. The capital expenditure of the state budget is set at 29.5 billion dollars. Support and development costs were incurred: agriculture worth 6.5 billion dollars, coal and other solid fuel industries worth 12.8 billion dollars, road agriculture worth 12.6 billion dollars, to support NAC Naftogaz Ukraine in the amount of 19.8 billion dollars. The Euro-2012 European Football Championship is being prepared and successfully held, with 6.4 billion dollars being spent on it. In addition to direct funding, the government has provided substantial support to operators by providing tax benefits. According to the U.S. National Tax Service, the loss of the budget as a result of income tax was 48.7 billion dollars. According to the State Customs Service, 42.9 billion dollars have been paid to farm subjects for 2012. An increase in the amount of funds earmarked for the development of the countries from the budget to the local budgets was recorded in the total of 125.8 billion dollars, which is 32.1 per cent higher than in 2011. Social security subsidies are listed within registered liabilities of 43.1 billion dollars, 18.7 percent more than in 2011. Subsidy for socio-economic development of individual territories is funded at 2.6 billion dollars. For the first time in 2012, the National Regional Development Fund was set up, with a cost of 1 billion to implement the region's socio-economic development agenda. As for the government budget deficit in Ukraine. In 2012, it is much smaller than in many highly developed countries in the world. The need for timely social expenditure and development costs in the context of slowing down the global economy has led to a government budget deficit of 53.4 billion dollars or 3.8 percent of GDP. GDP is estimated to remain high in 2012 in many highly developed countries: in Japan 10 percent of GDP, in the United States 8.7 percent of GDP, in Spain 7 percent, in France 4.7 percent. As far as government debt is concerned. By the end of 2012, the state-guaranteed debt amounted to $515.5 billion or 36.6 per cent of GDP and is at an economic security level and meets the criteria set out in the Ukrainian Budget Code, not more than 60 per cent of GDP. In doing so, we have managed to reduce by 27.8 billion dollars the government debt of Ukraine, established by the State Budget Act 2012 and revised by article 15 of the Ukrainian Budget Code. By the end of 2012, Ukraine’s government debt was 399.2 billion dollars. I would also like to point out that one of the main tasks of the government’s debt policy was to eliminate debt burden. By the beginning of 2012, the average repayment period was 4.1 years, and by the end of 2012, it was 5.1 years. That's a good indicator, and we're going to increase it. Thus, taking into account the above, I propose to approve the Report on the Implementation of the Ukrainian Law on Ukraine's 2012 State Budget. Thank you for your attention.
ParlaMint-UA_2013-06-18-m1.u3	Thank you, Yuri Volodymyrovich. National deputies of Ukraine are requested to sign up for a question to the Minister of Finance. Three minutes. People's Deputy Kingslayer, Fatherland faction.
ParlaMint-UA_2013-06-18-m1.u4	People's Deputy Kingslayer, Fatherland faction. Please pass the word to the deputy of the Blackwolf.
ParlaMint-UA_2013-06-18-m1.u5	Alexander Blackwolf, Fatherland. Dear Mr. Minister! Thank you for reading to us once again what your first deputy has read to us. How does he feel, please? And the main question for you is this. So it seems that last year, with Ukraine’s finances, no one was in charge of the budget, the situation was completely out of control. Please tell me how many changes you made to the budget in 2012 and whether you've added to the fact that 40 billion dollars are not taxed, and 50 billion, in your opinion, are benefiting, that is, we're losing 90 billion. And how did you get 35 percent to increase compensation for local grants, how did the total drinking weight stay the same?
ParlaMint-UA_2013-06-18-m1.u6	Thank you for asking. Regarding the self - feeling of Anatoly Ivanovich Merkovsky. I think the factions here are national deputies who worked with Anatoly Ivanovich and they know him as a very decent and considerate person. At the moment, he is hospitalized and undergoing a medical examination, and he will be able to report his condition personally as soon as possible. As for your last question, I was also told that in my speech, I answered very carefully and clearly all the questions they asked. Thank you for asking.
ParlaMint-UA_2013-06-18-m1.u7	People's MP Mirny, Freedom faction.
ParlaMint-UA_2013-06-18-m1.u8	Please pass the word to Alexia Kaidi.
ParlaMint-UA_2013-06-18-m1.u9	Pass the word to whom? People's MP, Kyde.
ParlaMint-UA_2013-06-18-m1.u10	Thank you. Alexy Kaida, faction of the All-Ukrainian Freedom Union. Dear Yuri Volodymyrovich! A question that may be of concern not only to national deputies but also to local authorities. A situation that has been translated from year to year, perhaps since 2010, with the work of the State Treasury Service. The question is, specifically, why was it that, in the event of actual arrivals to the special fund of local budgets and registered in the State Treasury Office of financial liabilities, the cost of repairs and reconstruction of municipal property roads, as well as the costs of environmental protection by the State authorities in 2012 were not fully met? Thank you.
ParlaMint-UA_2013-06-18-m1.u11	Thank you for asking. Well, in my speech, I answered that question, too. As far as road costs are concerned, we have been funded for the road economy at 12.6 billion dollars. Perhaps it was not fully funded if there were no documents available and properly prepared. If it's designed, it'll be financed 100%.
ParlaMint-UA_2013-06-18-m1.u12	Thank you, Yuri Volodymyrovich. Have a seat, please. The chairman of the Budget Committee, Eugene Borisovich Heller, is invited to the rostrum for the report. Please, Eugene Borisovich, five minutes.
ParlaMint-UA_2013-06-18-m1.u13	Dear Igor Grigorovich, distinguished national deputies and invited! The Budget Committee at its meeting on 22 May, with the participation of representatives of the Court of Auditors, the Ministry of Finance and Treasury, reviewed the report of the Cabinet of Ministers on the implementation of the Law on the State Budget 2012 and the relevant conclusions of the Court of Auditors. As a result of the processing of the materials, attention was paid to such matters. The implementation of the State budget was due to an unfavourable external economic situation. Although the trend of the country’s economy has been maintained. However, the forecast macro-indicators were not reached when the state budget was approved. During the past year, a record number of 38 laws were passed to amend the state budget, which significantly increased the revenue and expenditure plan of the state budget. Such changes did not fully take into account the current state of economic development and budget implementation. This indicates the need to improve the quality of budget planning and validation. The government’s general budget income was 89.9 percent. Not enough 32.6 billion dollars. As a result of the actual decline in real GDP and inflation, compared to projections. And an increase in the income plan. At the same time, the amount of overpayment of taxes and taxes to the government budget increased by 2.3 billion dollars and amounted to 21 billion dollars. According to the government budget, the deficit amounted to 3.8 percent of GDP and exceeded the approved limit of 14.6 billion dollars. In view of the failure to implement the income plan in larger amounts than at expense. The financing of the general fund deficit was based on government loans and revenues from the privatization of government assets according to the annual plan, as well as on the use of the balance of budget funds of 17.3 billion dollars and the inclusion of the single treasury account of 0.6 billion dollars. This requires that measures be taken to preserve the negotiable balance of the budget at the end of the year in the amount necessary to cover temporary cash breaks at the beginning of the new year and to restore the corresponding funds of the single treasury account. The general budget expenditure of the State budget amounted to 95.3 percent of the budget or 16.9 billion dollars less of the plan. At the same time, protected expenses, mostly social expenses, are spent almost entirely. Over the past years, there has been an increase in the liability of the Pension Fund for loans made at the expense of a single treasury account. By the end of 2012, this debt was 49 billion dollars. Therefore, it is appropriate to take measures to pay off such debt and to avoid its increase, to ensure that the balance of the Pension Fund’s budget is resolved systematically. According to the Court of Auditors, there has been a significant increase in budgetary debt, first of all. The accounts almost doubled as a result of independent budget management, including the establishment of budgetary allocations, at capital expenditure mainly at the end of the year. Short-term budget execution and part-time payments, and. A number of tasks have to be given to the government to address this issue. First, payment orders should be arranged in accordance with the budgetary obligations entered into, ensuring timely payment. Secondly, take measures to pay off the accounts payable, the accounts receivable, and strengthen control over compliance with financial discipline by budget managers. Thirdly, for two months, measures have been taken to pay off local budgets that were created at the beginning of the year. In addition, there is a need to limit the previous payment of goods, jobs, and services. The large number of state budget redistributions made last year requires a thorough study of the availability of objective grounds and financial and economic competence to carry out them and to increase the responsibility of the chief managers for the quality of budget programming. Taking into account the shortcomings identified by the Court of Auditors in the use of subsidies to implement measures for the socio-economic development of individual areas and the costs of the State Regional Development Fund. We need to ensure that it's effective.
ParlaMint-UA_2013-06-18-m1.u14	Finish up, please. Turn on the microphone.
ParlaMint-UA_2013-06-18-m1.u15	Thank you. Effective enforcement of legislation and efficient use of such funds in the future must be ensured. In the process of processing this report, taking into account the findings of the Court of Auditors, the committee has prepared draft regulations on the implementation of the Law on the State Budget for 2012, which is registered at 2688d and distributed to the National Deputies. This draft decree is to be approved.
ParlaMint-UA_2013-06-18-m1.u16	Turn on the microphone, please. Until the end.
ParlaMint-UA_2013-06-18-m1.u17	The draft decrees provided for approval of the Report by the Cabinet of Ministers on the implementation of the Law on the State Budget for 2012 and the provision of appropriate government mandates to improve budget management in the implementation of the budget for the current year and the formulation of the draft budget for the following year. The Committee on Budgetary Questions recommends to the Supreme Council the adoption of the draft Supreme Council Regulation number 2688d as a basis and as a whole. Please support the committee's decision. Thank you for your attention.
ParlaMint-UA_2013-06-18-m1.u18	Dear colleagues, please sign up for the question. Freedom faction, National Deputy of Cherniaków.
ParlaMint-UA_2013-06-18-m1.u19	Please pass the word to Illenka.
ParlaMint-UA_2013-06-18-m1.u20	The word is passed on to the national deputy Illenka.
ParlaMint-UA_2013-06-18-m1.u21	Andrew Illenko, faction of the All-Ukrainian Freedom Union. Dear Eugene Borisovich, please tell us why you think there was such a negative trend in 2012 when nearly 100 percent of the expenditures were financed by the B.B.I., the D.A., the police? In fact, the police state is being built, and at the same time, for example, environmental expenditure is only 51 per cent, agriculture is 68, culture is 89, higher education is 93, social protection is 84. In fact, don't you think there are signs of a police-type state here that all resources available in the country go primarily to funding law enforcement agencies, namely the power authorities that control their own citizens, by the way, not the defense of the state, and the important social directions are chronically underfunded. Thank you.
ParlaMint-UA_2013-06-18-m1.u22	Thank you for asking, Mr. Andrew. I would like to point out that the Ukrainian Security Service is also protecting the state from external enemies. This is the first time. And secondly, all the money that was spent on the services that you said was not in full measure. That's why you're on our committee, and this year you've had a few redistributions, because there's not enough money for both the TV, the TV, and the environment. Thank you.
ParlaMint-UA_2013-06-18-m1.u23	People's Deputy Kaplin, Vitaly Klicka faction.
ParlaMint-UA_2013-06-18-m1.u24	People's Deputy Kaplin, Vitaly Klicka faction. Well, first of all, I would like to thank the Minister of Finance for having personally participated in this discussion. Although, of course, it was caused by what seems to be a force majeure situation. And I'd like to ask you the same question. Please comment as head of the committee on the specifics and features of the future circulation of government treasury bills, because experts agree that this is going to be an attempt to centralize and monopolize corruption first. And that these bills are actually some new quasi-grocers of the Party of Regions and they're called primarily to wash away the funds that are now in large enterprises and to deprive them of their competitiveness, and also to collect these businesses by forming a new system of corruption. Thank you.
ParlaMint-UA_2013-06-18-m1.u25	Thank you for asking. I'll switch to Russian so they can tell you better. Now our colleagues are going to scream, speak Ukrainian. I want to tell you that, in fact, at a time when the difficult situation in the country, the promissory notes are not quasigrasses, as you have said. Vessela is the only way, the only way to resolve the debt that is now in front of businesses and no one will force an enterprise to take these bills. If enterprises feel that they lack working capital, they will turn to the tax office for these bills. And I hope that the Bills Act will spell out clearly how enterprises will be able to use these promissory notes in the future. I'm done. Don't worry.
ParlaMint-UA_2013-06-18-m1.u26	Have a seat, please. Have a seat, Eugene Borisovich.
ParlaMint-UA_2013-06-18-m1.u27	Thank you.
ParlaMint-UA_2013-06-18-m1.u28	The head of the Cell of Maguta Roman Mikolaiovich, five minutes, is invited to the rostrum for the report.
ParlaMint-UA_2013-06-18-m1.u29	Dear Igor Grigorovich, distinguished national MPs, members of the government, are invited! According to current legislation, the College of the Court of Auditors has confirmed the conclusions on the implementation of the 2012 State Budget, which are given to the Supreme Council of Ukraine, which are fixed and distributed to each of you. So I'm going to highlight only the most important problems in the implementation of the government budget last year, which is estimated by the Court of Auditors to create risks for the implementation of the state budget in the current year. One of the main factors behind the failure to implement the government budget in 2012 was both income and expenditure, much lower than the projected growth of the economy. Unfortunately, in the current year, there has already been a decline in the production of goods and services for industry and in a number of other key sectors of the real economy. IMF, World Bank economic growth forecasts have deteriorated in the current year, both in Ukraine and in the main trading partners. So the growth in real GDP in the current year at the projected level of 3.4 percent, according to the Court of Auditors, is no longer in line with reality. This requires substantial adjustments to the projected macroeconomic indicators of the state budget in the current year. One of Ukraine’s well - known domestic problems is the need to improve its investment attractiveness. The urgency of this task is eloquently evidenced by the decline in 2012 compared to the previous year of the net inflow of foreign direct investment. Another problem that inhibits economic development and does not depend on external factors is limited lending. At the same time, some of the credit resources are directed by banks to purchase domestic government bonds that are issued to finance the government budget deficit. In 2012, the government budget deficit more than doubled its 2011 deficit by 3.8 percent of GDP. Since the financing of the deficit as in previous years was largely made on the basis of government loans, the government debt in 2012 also increased at a higher rate than in 2011. Some 92 billion dollars or 6.5 percent of GDP and nearly 27 percent of the government’s general budget are spent on public debt repayment and servicing. Overall, government-guaranteed debt increased by 9 per cent to 515 billion dollars The negative consequences of continuous growth, both state and guaranteed, are seen in the case of individual countries of the European Union. An increase in debt, government debt, and government debt imposes risks for years to come, as the need to pay off debts leads to new government borrowings. Do debt risks increase a large part of the foreign currency debt, which is 64.3 percent due??????? by placing domestic government debt bonds denominated in dollars and euros, and by increasing to 36.6 percent of the government-guaranteed government debt ratio to GDP. In order to prevent risks, the Court of Auditors considers it appropriate to recommend to the government that the limits of the government’s debt should be determined by all possible State obligations and the criteria for the efficiency of the use of the funds it has borrowed, and that it should adhere to the intention to reduce the government’s deficit. Among the reasons for the unscheduled expenditure of 31 billion dollars has not been fully implemented by the authorities of the State Treasury Office in order to pay off the liabilities of the budget administrators, to carry out long-term tender procedures, and to terminate contracts due to their failure to meet the conditions for timely payment of supplies, jobs, and services. In addition, the practice of allocating budget allocations in large amounts was ingrained at the end of the year. This resulted in a lack of use of funds through separate budget programmes, which had a negative impact on the social and economic development of the State. In 2012, there was a tendency to increase dependence on local budgets and transfers from the state budget. The share of transfers from the state budget in revenue increased by 2.9 percent in local budgets and was 55.2 percent. The number of areas in which the share of transfers has increased from 3 to 6 to more than 70 percent of the local budget’s income. During 2012, 896 analytical and expert measures were carried out by the Audit Chamber. The Court of Auditors has identified a number of budgetary offences as defined in Article 116.
ParlaMint-UA_2013-06-18-m1.u30	Please turn on the microphone, finish
ParlaMint-UA_2013-06-18-m1.u31	In general, control measures have revealed such violations of 4 billion, 800 million dollars, as well as the ineffective use of the government budget of 8 billion, 200 million dollars. As a result of the follow-up and analysis, various levels of institutions, decision-making organizations and information sheets have been prepared and sent to the executive authorities to respond accordingly, to address detected violations and shortcomings. Thank you for your attention.
ParlaMint-UA_2013-06-18-m1.u32	Dear colleagues, I'd like you to sign up for a question to the head of the House of Auditors. National Deputy Ariev, Fatherland faction.
ParlaMint-UA_2013-06-18-m1.u33	Dear Sir, please tell me if you've done research on what happened during the pre-election campaign in 2012. I'll tell you what I'm talking about. In particular, it's about how when some candidates in the Ukrainian People's Deputies, especially from power, made very bright gifts, as if at their own expense, as do benefactors. And then the state, including the local budgets, put bills out, and then from the local budgets, from the state budget, they paid for their charity and their income. Please tell me, have you fixed these data, which, by the way, was directed, including by many of the already active national MPs who won from the opposition in 2012? Thank you.
ParlaMint-UA_2013-06-18-m1.u34	Thank you, Mr. Ariev. The Court of Auditors is governed by the law of the Court of Auditors. What you've asked, according to your work, at the end of the year is a plan for carrying out a follow-up exercise. No such analytical work was carried out on the subject. If such questions were to be answered by national deputies, we would consider them and include them in the work plan. Unfortunately, I don't have that kind of analytic material. Thank you.
ParlaMint-UA_2013-06-18-m1.u35	National Deputy Stoyan, faction of the Party of the Regions.
ParlaMint-UA_2013-06-18-m1.u36	My name is Stoyan for the future. I am very happy to give my word to my colleague Jaroslav Sukh.
ParlaMint-UA_2013-06-18-m1.u37	Please, the word is given to the national deputy Jaroslav Sukh.
ParlaMint-UA_2013-06-18-m1.u38	Thank you. Roman Mikolaiovich, I have a question. As we know, Ukraine's state budget is not just social services and so on, it's also state-owned capital investment. I want to remind you and all the Ukrainian people's deputies that in 2004, state-owned capital investment was 2.5 times the social cost of the budget. By 2005, however, state-owned capital injections had accounted for only 40 percent of social expenditure. She doesn't have a future, she starts a hot patch of holes, she's going to completely balance the state budget. Please tell me, is the Court of Auditors, at least the total numbers, able to say what is the ratio of state-owned capital investment and social expenditure today?
ParlaMint-UA_2013-06-18-m1.u39	Thank you for asking. Unfortunately, this question is certainly more relevant to the Ministry of Finance than to the Court of Auditors. So I can't give you that answer. Thank you.
ParlaMint-UA_2013-06-18-m1.u40	The Martínk People's Deputy, Freedom faction.
ParlaMint-UA_2013-06-18-m1.u41	Ruslan Marcinkov, All-Ukrainian Freedom Union. Please tell me, who will answer that seven months ago, treasury bills were blocked and new kindergartens, new schools, roads were not funded? And this year, all the local budgets have been blocked since January. Today, children’s diet is not missed by the local budget, for today’s health campaign is actually under way. Who will answer that question, and why does the Court of Auditors not raise that question? Today, too, the Ministry of Finance has been deliberately overestimated as if local budget revenues and underexpenditures. And so the local budgets are going to have a payroll debt by August-September of the month. Who will answer for this, and why don't you tell the doctors, the teachers today, who are to blame for the heavy debt they will pay today? Thank you.
ParlaMint-UA_2013-06-18-m1.u42	Thank you for asking. In my report, I emphasized the reasons for the failure of the 31 billion planned expenditure and the failure of the state Treasury to pay the dues of the organizers to the full. Unfortunately, this question really didn't fit like last year, and we're focusing on that. As you have all seen, the issue was also relevant to May Day.
ParlaMint-UA_2013-06-18-m1.u43	Thank you. Have a seat, please. Let's move on to the performances of the MPs and the national MPs. I'd like to ask the MPs to sign up for the speech. The faction of the Party of the Regions, Herman Hanna Mikolayevna. Turn on Herman Hanni Mikolaiveni's microphone.
ParlaMint-UA_2013-06-18-m1.u44	Please give us Lukyan’s word. Thank you.
ParlaMint-UA_2013-06-18-m1.u45	The word is given to the national deputy Lukyanov, a faction of the Party of the Regions.
ParlaMint-UA_2013-06-18-m1.u46	Good afternoon, dear colleagues, good afternoon, citizens of Ukraine!
ParlaMint-UA_2013-06-18-m1.u47	I would like to describe the 2012 budget year. I want to say that the year was difficult, but at the same time there was a lot of good in 2012. Most importantly, Ukraine took a firm step towards the European Union and Euro-2012 – the European Football Championship took place at the highest level. And the most glaring skeptics acknowledged that Ukraine was at the European level in the development of sport. At the same level, we would like to have economic development, social relations, the development of society as a whole. I want to go back to the budget. Social direction was a key area of budgetary policy. And it was not by chance that the social initiatives of the President of Ukraine, Viktor Fedorović Yanukovic, were welcomed by the Ukrainian society. More than 32 billion grevens were targeted at increasing social benefits. Also crucial was the increase in wages, with an increase in wages of 4.4 per cent planned, in fact the increase in wages was 14.4 per cent. This was reflected by the increase in the contributions of Ukrainian citizens to deposits. More than 80 billion have been fined by the increase in deposits in banks and the financial system of Ukraine. This reaffirms the social focus of the Government and the Ministry of Finance in 2012. It is also important to note that this increase was more than 16 per cent. This indicates that the rate of growth in social indicators was higher than in previous years. This also speaks of the responsibility of Prime Minister Nikolai Janović Azarov and of the entire Cabinet of Ministers to Ukrainian society. At the same time, we cannot say that 2012 was easy for us. We have seen a sharp deterioration in the situation in the main export markets of Ukrainian producers. We've seen prices in black metal markets drop dramatically as demand declines. At this difficult time, both the Ministry of Finance and the Government were able to pay and fulfil all their social obligations on time. Pensions were paid on time and wages were paid on time. And the people of Ukraine appreciated this work by voting in the 2012 elections for the Party of Regions and its candidates. And today we have a majority in Parliament, we have the support of our constituents. But we understand that support, trust and responsibility. And today we face a difficult challenge, a challenge in the stagnation of European markets, a very slow growth of the world economy to keep its commitments and to meet its commitments to the Ukrainian people. But I am sure that this task is within the power of the Government team and our team in Parliament. I'm sure we'll win together. Thank you for your attention.
ParlaMint-UA_2013-06-18-m1.u48	People's deputy Rosenko, the Vitalia Klicka faction, is invited to the presentation. He's giving the word to the People's Deputy Pinzenic.
ParlaMint-UA_2013-06-18-m1.u49	Dear Chairman! Dear National Deputies! The budget can be estimated from the point of view of the targeted direction of funds and their effectiveness. But there's another aspect of the budget, its balance. And on this side, on this side of the budget, I would like to stop in more detail. Last year’s budget was uniquely unrealistic in income. The actual income of the General Fund of the State Budget last year was 10 percent or 33 billion less than approved by the Budget Act. The lack of funds has been met with a common but not very dangerous way of increasing debt. Last year, debt rose to 42.4 billion dollars. Budget policies last year have once again turned to deficits and debts. The first version of the budget predicted a deficit of 25 billion dollars. 38 so - called budget improvements have increased the cost to 38.8 billion dollars. In our report, the budget deficit is already at $53.4 billion or nearly 4 percent of GDP. My estimate is that the actual budget deficit is 70 billion dollars or 5 percent of GDP. But that's not the final number either. There was information in this room today that I want to confirm. Since the middle of last year, government accounts have had no funds. For days on the treasury account of the government was 8 million????? That's right. In this regard, since last year, we have faced the phenomenon of the so - called default of budget commitments, the failure of the budget to meet the obligations of work. It's nothing more than a budget deficit. There are a few laws in Parliament that are about to be passed, and we've listened to them today. The budget commitments of the previous year are to be drawn up. In connection with this report, I would like to ask you a few simple questions, all of us. What number of expenses are we going to approve today by decree if the bills are going to form debt last year? At what expense of the year will the expenses that are to be incurred be borne by promissory notes? To the deficit of the budget, what year are the expenses that are going to be formed by promissory notes? Last year, the government revived a very dangerous way of raising debt — life in deficits. Last year's history. This historical trend could no longer be discussed if the situation did not occur again this year. This year's budget is approved with a 9.2 percent increase in the general budget. We already have five months or almost half a year, we have a actual growth of 2.4 percent or 4 times less. According to my estimates, this year's budget will not be implemented for 20 to 25 billion dollars or the budget deficit will appear to be one and a half times more than approved by law. Under such conditions, the government must stop sowing illusions in society about the unseen resources that are going to be shared during the next budget review. Honest, accountable to the country, to the economy, politics requires a completely different budget sequester and the closure of any tax avoidance. For the fifth year in a row, I urge the government to step down from the path of debt raising, to stop borrowing debts on the neck of Ukrainian citizens and their economies.
ParlaMint-UA_2013-06-18-m1.u50	The People's Deputy, the Fatherland faction.
ParlaMint-UA_2013-06-18-m1.u51	Please give the floor to the national deputy Sergio Soboljev.
ParlaMint-UA_2013-06-18-m1.u52	The word is passed on to the People’s Deputy Soboljev.
ParlaMint-UA_2013-06-18-m1.u53	I think from the three reports, the report of the Court of Auditors really deserves attention, because it was a report by an expert who really understands where the country is going. Just a few digits, and that's not opposition numbers, that's the numbers of the Chambers of Auditors. 90 percent of the budget was implemented, 10 percent not implemented. Budget spending, only 92 percent. GDP, which has actually been planned 20 times less, think about it, 3.9 is planned, 0.2 is done. Thus, almost 14 billion dollars was not received by the State because of the lack of performance of GDP. The worst figure, remember, in 2008, agriculture was raised even under such conditions in the country, and in 2012 the decline in agriculture was 4 and a half percent. This country has been gone for the past 10 years. And that's not all. The worst numbers when we start to analyze the number of businesses that have become bankrupt. They are now, more specifically, 40 percent at the end of 2012. So in fact, 40 percent of businesses are recognized by the Ministry of Finance, no, the Ministry of Finance doesn't recognize it, and the House of Auditors does not. And that's not all. Much scarier numbers when we understand the balance of external trade. In fact, it grew 1.7 times compared to the previous year. And that wasn't the best year. We understand what these are and where they're dragging the country. At the same time, a number of figures discovered by the Court of Auditors have been returned by the state of debt. Think about it, 17 percent. So 1 out of 6 loans was returned in 2012. And then we say, "Where is this money?" And now we're starting to analyze our successes. They say it's Euro 2012. Please tell me, why did the same House of Auditors detect 3 and a half billion dollars of unearmarked use of funds just for the construction of Borispil Airport? Just building one airport, three and a half billion dollars. And you're telling us and reporting on any progress? In my opinion, what happened to the State budget in 2012, the government should not report on budget implementation, which is to report on budget failure, because all the figures that were put in place led to the fact that, according to the Court of Auditors, one in three programs were not even started in 2012. And once again, I emphasize, this is not the worst year that was planned at the time. Even worse, all of these trends will actually cross in 2013. What do we see? The latest reports from Minstad are in fact chronicles of war. 10 percent of the decline in industrial production is in terms of growth and stability? What will happen to the country? In these circumstances, unfortunately, the minister of finance does not provide any answers. He only notes one thing -- it's a failure of the world's metal and chemistry prices. But if this is the only way to explain the untargeted tens and tens of billions of dollars that have been used in the budget, not the purpose of breaking up the budget directly, we're actually just going to answer these questions. Unfortunately, the Ministry of Finance cannot even assess the real state of things. That's why the opposition questioned the 2012 outcome that the Yanukovich government should resign. There is no way for a country to jump into the gap every month when they cannot even diagnose what is going on. That's why the Fatherland faction insisted that we have an open, honest conversation here in this session room. What mechanisms does the government offer? Vexel, debt write-off for energy and gas holdings. This is because the increase in public debt has already reached $14 billion in municipal payments. In fact, the government continues to try to hide by numbers without answering the key questions. So, Mr. Kolobov, it is no wonder that your employees at the Ministry of Finance, in order to save themselves from these figures, understand the truth, flood their real situation with a green snake. That is why such a government cannot continue. Thank you.
ParlaMint-UA_2013-06-18-m1.u54	People's Deputy Illenko, Freedom faction, is invited to the presentation.
ParlaMint-UA_2013-06-18-m1.u55	Yuri Mikhalchisin, the All-Ukrainian Freedom Union, the city of Lviv. Dear Igor Grigorovich, distinguished national MPs! In an interesting and satisfying report by the finance minister, the head of the Committee on Budget Affairs, the head of the Court of Auditors of Ukraine, we have heard many facts that do not reveal general disheartening trends. There is no point in stopping at the fictitious macroeconomic indicators that were the basis for the planning of the State’s resources for 2012. Just as it doesn't make sense to stop at the fiction that is now being prepared in the drafting of the "On the Main Directions of State Budget Policy for the next year." I would like to point out a few key facts that, unfortunately, we have not heard or heard from today’s reports. First of all, why did Ukraine's government budget not get $33.5 billion last year? And because the basic sources of the government budget were not implemented. Yes, the value added tax is actually done at 84 percent. Tax on excise duty on excise goods produced in Ukraine, by 88 per cent. Company income tax is 95 percent. And in the end, the cost of oil produced in Ukraine by the representatives of the oligarchic groups is, first of all, a pitiful 60 percent of the planned rates. What does that mean? This means that in fact the money-generating part of the government budget, which was created by the imagination of Ukrainian government officials and voted in this upper room in this, so to speak, global economic crisis, which is accepted to write down all calculations and the sins of the administrative and administrative decisions of the Ukrainian government have nothing to do with reality. We also heard no explanation for the actual collapse of the treasury system of local budgets. Because last year, not only in the fourth quarter at the end of the year, but also in the third quarter, payments of local government expenditure, all except wages and socially protected expenses were effectively blocked. This did not finance road repairs, nor did it finance development costs. And all of this, of course, took place in a condition of blocking a goal-oriented government treasury service. It is understandable that local budget funds were blocked. However, no one explained how the special fund of the state budget was blocked in the face of, I apologize, the local budget, contrary to article 13 of the Code of Budgets, which provides for specific sources of income for these expenses. Thus, in the past 2012, not only repairs and reconstructions of roads of utility, such as conservation measures, have been blocked and sabotaged, which are extremely painful in the local communities. In particular, we need to talk about the activities of the Regional Development Fund, which last year revealed as much as 1 billion 600 million dollars. And this year, in the current year 2013 and less than 987 million in total, in direct violation of the requirements of the Ukrainian Budget Code, that is less than half of the expenditure of the state budget. This means that, in view of the need for local self-government and local communities to develop infrastructure improvements, there is absolutely no one interested in this, as I see the session hall, nor in the Ukrainian Cabinet of Ministers. It can also be concluded that the country’s state budget for today is functioning in the following mode. When there is a lack of funds to cover public budget expenditure, external borrowing is credited. When there is a lack of funds for local budgets, treasury loans are taken. What does our generous Ministry of Finance suggest instead? Instead, it offers the following mechanism: treasury bills, as well as non-budgetary expenditure, for 50 billion dollars this year. In some ways, though, tax benefits are notorious. Thus, last year Ukraine’s government budget was under 7 billion dollars of tax added value as a result of the aid granted to certain operators for the transportation of medical equipment. Please tell your colleagues, and how has the Ukrainian health system improved? Could it be that the drugs imported into Ukraine were cheap? It is also worth paying attention to the way that we have accumulated and then paid off our government debt. In 2012, we spent 92 billion dollars free of charge to pay off and service government debt. So let's imagine that these costs wouldn't have to be made, and 92 billion dollars could go to Ukrainian agriculture, housing, education, science and culture. To sum up, I can say that the faction of the All-Ukrainian Union of Freedom does not explicitly accept free government of state finances, and then will not vote in favour of the decision on.
ParlaMint-UA_2013-06-18-m1.u56	Let me finish. Done? The national deputy of Cibenko, a faction of the Ukrainian Company, is invited to the presentation.
ParlaMint-UA_2013-06-18-m1.u57	Dear colleagues, respected citizens of Ukraine! A faction of the Ukrainian Company, head of the Committee of Social Policy and Labour, head of the Ukrainian Veterans' Council. Dear colleagues, I will not open America if I say that any budget should be valued first by who it serves. For 20 years, Ukraine’s post - Soviet poverty, not even survival, but the poverty of Ukraine firmly convinced the faction of the Company of Ukraine that it serves neither the man’s work, the miner, the teacher, the doctor, the pensioner, nor the veteran, nor the disabled person, and it serves exclusively the money bag, the banker, the entrepreneur, or the thief’s official. And the government report that we heard today, whether it was in the presentation of the First Deputy Minister of Finance, or in the presentation of the Minister of Finance, he just confirmed that the faction of the Company of Ukraine was absolutely, as it did not vote in favour of this budget, a right. Because we knew that someone in this budget would get a bubble, and the vast majority of the population of Ukraine would be left with a bubble hole. How did this budget, like any other, perform such a vital function as protecting the most disadvantaged? Not at all. A few examples of this are, say, the law, the law on the status of war veterans and the guarantee of social protection. He predicts that the state must protect as much as possible the most important part of our population, the disabled of the Great National War, the veterans, the frontists, and so on. But what do we really see? Just recently, when we were talking about the direct creators of the great victory of the warlords, we were operating on a million figures. Today, there are fewer than 100,000 left. There seems to be every possibility to protect them as much as possible. However, out of the ten minimum pensions to be received under this law by the disabled of the 1st group, out of the 10 minimum pensions this year, a little more than 2,000, or 20 percent of what the law would have resulted from the disability of the 1st group. Or a category of Ukrainian citizens as children of war. Once again, the law provides that they should receive an additional 30 percent of the minimum pension as a supplement to the basic pension. Last year, this was the order of 7 percent, or again, the fourth part of what was provided for by law. Underlining, a valid law that no one has objected or repealed. Another indicator. The Chernobylites are citizens who did in peacetime what the veterans of the Great Homeland War did in their time saved the country from a terrible disaster. Nevertheless, they are now experiencing the same poverty as the world’s most debilitated population. Another category of citizens, another indicator that has a direct bearing on the state budget of Ukraine, more specifically on its implementation, is pension insurance. We have discussed the situation with regard to the level of pension insurance on a number of occasions, including this session. The government is very often proud of the average pension rate, and I've talked about it, but I want to remind you again. You know, the average pension in Ukraine, which is a little over a thousand 400 dollars, is like the average hospital temperature. Someone's 42, someone's cold, and on average 36.6. We don't know where that average comes from? Nine poor people receive a pension of less than a thousand dollars, one official or a deputy is next to him, and an average of 400 dollars. It doesn't correspond to a job contribution, nothing else. So the faction of the Ukrainian Company, as a completely consistent political force that did not vote in favour of this document, will not vote accordingly and approve the proposals made by the budget committee. Thank you.
ParlaMint-UA_2013-06-18-m1.u58	Thank you. Please sit down, Peter Stepanovich. People's deputies please sign up for the speech. The People's Deputy, the Fatherland faction. To whom should I give the word?
ParlaMint-UA_2013-06-18-m1.u59	Andrey the Pious, the Fatherland faction. Well, actually, you know, my fellow Ukrainians, the state of the Ukrainian state finances is very clear from those bills that the faction of the Party of the Regions has been trying to contradict through the Ukrainian Parliament for the past six months. All of these bills indicate a catastrophe: financial bills, recovery banks, advances, quasi-money, and so forth. It's about the fact that the faction of the Party of Regions and personally the Ministry of Finance is clearly aware of the catastrophic state of Ukrainian finances. It was very strange to hear today, in fact, a report by the head of the Accounting Chamber, which in principle sets out the catastrophe that is now taking place in the Ukrainian financial system. Instead, there is no reaction from the official government to this event and there is no response to this situation. We're again listening to a series of stories that, in fact, even on a sober head, can't be taken by, you know, representatives of the Cabinet of Ministers. As a result, we actually observed the shameful thing that took place during the morning meeting and the report of the first deputy minister of finance. In fact, this situation clearly shows that the only objective evaluation of the 2012 report on the state of implementation of the Ukrainian budget is the resignation of the government. The resignation of a government that is unable to predict the Ukrainian budget, nor to ensure its fulfillment, nor to control its implementation, nor, in fact, to report the situation of Ukrainian finances qualitatively. So the government's resignation is the only and most logical result of the government's activities in the area of implementation of the Ukrainian budget. Thank you.
ParlaMint-UA_2013-06-18-m1.u60	The word is given to the national deputy Kanovec.
ParlaMint-UA_2013-06-18-m1.u61	Dear Chairman! Dear fellow MPs! Oleg Kanovec, 126 constituency, Stryshtina, Jewish, "Citizen Position" party. Many speakers today criticized the government. And I want to focus on that too. That the government in its last year and almost half this year has shown disrespect for the budgets of local governments. Many critical comments have been made about how treasury services are carried out in the local budgets. Not a word was said by the first Deputy Minister of Finance or Finance Minister, who is the creditor's debt to the local government's budgets as of January 1, 2013. On the Committee on Budgets, we tried to figure it out. Sadly, we never found out. From the mouth of the deputy head of the Treasury alone, the number was one billion and a hundred million. Following the insistence of the members of the budget committee in the draft 2012 Report, we wanted to include a rule to oblige the government to pay off the debt owed to local governments on July 1st, the entire debt owed to the creditor. Unfortunately, this rule was not included in the draft decree. Instead, it was normal to take two months of action to pay off that debt. I also want to support the Association of Cities of Ukraine, which made its remarks to the stated draft decision. With each passing year, the State does not finance the state’s delegated authorities to local self - government. That is, financing education, culture, medicine, government. Last year, some 30 billion were underfunded. Moreover, every year there is an increase in the share of government budgets of local self - government, the so - called second basket. That is, incomes that are later not included in inter-budget transfers. And this part grows every year. If this percentage was measured about 25 to 30 percent in 2007-2011, more than 42 percent of the local self-governance authorities gave their own funds to government services last year. And the last thing I want to say. Each year, the so - called second basket, or local government, is reduced. Today they account for only 8 percent of last year, while in all European countries it is at least 35 to 40 percent. Here's where government policy is to support local self-government.
ParlaMint-UA_2013-06-18-m1.u62	Thank you. Gregory Smythuch, faction of the Party of the Regions. Please.
ParlaMint-UA_2013-06-18-m1.u63	Dear Volodymyr Vasilovich, distinguished national deputies! You know, the situation that is at this moment in the Supreme Council, in my opinion, it worries me because we are discussing a very important issue of the country, and almost no one is paying attention to it. All the almost MPs are busy with their personal issues, and no one knows how the country has lived by the basic law, and what the results of Ukraine have been, have been, and how the country will continue to develop. Personally, as a national deputy, I am concerned about the financial situation of the country. Because the financial situation of the country, I think, is unsatisfying. And it has to do with internal and external causes. And unfortunately, to my deep conviction, there is no systematic approach to addressing these issues in our country. And it's not happening today in the hall, not on the side of the opposition, not on the side of our majority. Because in my opinion, a country in today's world can't function any longer, evolve in a system like it's being funded today. Why do I have a few, literally, warnings like that? First. Ukraine signed and entered, joined the Soviet laws. Accordingly, it operates or is taking place all processes of an economic nature according to international standards. So I've always wondered, by international standards, how is there a banking system in the Ukrainian market with Western capital, with an internal capital, why our banks have increased 9.9 times the income this year, and industrial sector production has fallen to zero. As it turns out, today our banking system is financed by the very large percentages of the real economy and it is impossible to finance the current costs. And at the same time, he's getting an income. Why is the Ministry of Finance, the National Bank, not interfering with this system? Why do we hope that this will in itself resolve the matter? In my opinion, this is ruining our economy. If we don't do everything today to consume our market. The consumer market in the internal market has grown, we're not going to do anything in the economy. And how can we do that when our electricity in the internal market today is twice as expensive as we export? How can we do that we have more gas in the internal market than on the outside? How can we make economic progress in construction if we have two times as much metal as in the external market? Why is the Monopoly Committee silent? Why isn't the Ministry of Finance offering cheap loans to our real economy? Why do we finance banks, we give investments to banks that give too much interest to our economy? Why do we observe this issue and not intervene, fear it?
ParlaMint-UA_2013-06-18-m1.u64	Thank you. Thank you. The last speaker is the "Freedom" unification of Marcinkov.
ParlaMint-UA_2013-06-18-m1.u65	Please pass the word to Michael Golovk.
ParlaMint-UA_2013-06-18-m1.u66	National MP Mikhailo Golovko. Please.
ParlaMint-UA_2013-06-18-m1.u67	Mikhail Golovko, the All-Ukrainian Freedom Union. Ladies and gentlemen, the situation that has taken place in the Ukrainian state of finance today is simply catastrophic. Government debt, we see that it's getting more and more every year. So today it's 530 billion dollars, it's almost 69 billion dollars -- total government debt and guaranteed government debt as a whole. By dividing this amount into each Ukrainian, each Ukrainian owes nearly 14,000 dollars: a small, adult, old, pensioner, a newly born Ukrainian, and he already has a debt to pay today. If this amount of debt is divided into every working Ukrainian, it will be a order of 24,000 dollars per working Ukrainian. If there's another 162 billion dollars of this Ukrainian loan for the banking system, that's an extra amount. It amounts to 34,000 dollars for each working Ukrainian. So if you get a minimum wage, you're going to have to work more than 3 years to pay that debt. And if you get an average wage, that's over a year. To this day, under the direction of the Party of Regions, the government of Azarov has driven the economic situation into such an economic debt, in this cabal, the Ukrainian people. So we understand all this danger, the responsibility that is happening today. Today, the budget deficit is 50 billion. We're seeing articles about financing the power structures, primarily the security services, the IMF, the courts, the law enforcement agencies. This amount is already more than 30 billion dollars. At the same time, when funding, such as the Ukrainian Armed Forces, does not occur at all and annually decreases by 1 billion in total, and as far as the purchase of arms and military equipment is concerned, from 15 billion to 1, almost 900 million dollars. I have a question then, honourable deputies, and then who do we protect ourselves from, our own people or the outside threat? It seems that the government and this gang are primarily afraid of Ukrainians, their own people. She is persecuting the opposition today, haunting the patriots today. Today they're being held in prisons and so on. So we see where the funding goes. At the same time, social protection costs are not good. Last year, Ukraine spent 92 billion on government debt and government debt. Twenty-four billion for the loan itself. If these funds were really aimed at social needs, they were double-funded medicine, education, educational institutions, and so forth. That would give a lot of development in terms of infrastructure on the ground. Today, however, local self - government is the one that suffers the most. And the fact that treasury is now blocking funding, taking the local population's money and managing it.
ParlaMint-UA_2013-06-18-m1.u68	Thank you. Have a seat. The speech is over. There is no final word for the minister. In the head of the committee? None. Ladies and gentlemen, please take your seats. We will proceed to the vote. Please prepare for the vote. I ask you to prepare for the vote. I'm betting on a draft Supreme Council Regulation (Registration No. 2688-d) on a report on the implementation of the Ukrainian State Budget 2012 Act for adoption as a basis and as a whole. People's deputies, please vote. [[17:16:39]] For a hundred and Honourable deputies, by factions. Ladies and gentlemen, the decree of the Supreme Council of UkraineThe report on the implementation of the Ukrainian Act on the State Budget for Ukraine 2012 has been taken to the fore. [[B in m in s a l in]] Let's move on to the next question, the issue of ratification. A draft Act (No.0024) on the ratification of the Convention between the Government of Ukraine and the Government of the Republic of Cyprus on the avoidance of double taxation and the prevention of tax evasion in respect of income taxes and the Protocol thereto is submitted for consideration. As we look at it. [[B in m in s a l in]] Please vote in favour of the summary procedure. Please vote. [[17:18:09]] For-187 Against-97, held-10, not voted-99. Decision taken. The finance minister is Yuri Volodymyrovich Kolobov. Then the committee heads. Please. Yuri Volodymyrovich, you have two minutes.
ParlaMint-UA_2013-06-18-m1.u69	Dear Volodymira Vasilovich, distinguished national deputies and present! Your opinion is proposed by the draft Ukrainian Law on the Ratification of the Convention between the Government of Ukraine and the Government of the Republic of Cyprus on the Prevention of Double Taxation and the Prevention of Taxation on Income Taxes and the Protocol thereto, signed on 8 November 212 in the city of Nicosia. As the convention is organized, the legal and contractual basis of Ukraine is expanded. This convention creates favourable conditions for investors in Ukraine and Cyprus, stimulates business initiatives for enterprises, regulates the issue of international taxation of income in bilateral relations between States. The purpose of this agreement and convention is to avoid double taxation on the income of natural and legal persons that arise in the territories of both countries. This will be achieved both by dividing the right to tax certain types of income between Ukraine and Cyprus, depending on their origins and by taking into account the taxpayer’s tax obligations by one State the amount of taxes paid in the territory of another State. In addition, the convention aims to prevent tax evasion, eliminate tax discrimination, create mechanisms to improve cooperation between the tax authorities of Ukraine and Cyprus by establishing procedures for mutual reconciliation of issues, and ensure the exchange of tax information. The Convention provides tax rates for dividends, interest and royalty. Dividends. The total interest rate is 15 percent and 5 percent if the dividend recipient owns at least 20 percent of the company’s capital or invested at least 100,000 euros in the company that they pay. Interest. Total interest rate is 2 percent. Royalty. The total interest rate is 10 percent, 5 percent for the royalty relative to either.
ParlaMint-UA_2013-06-18-m1.u70	Finish up.
ParlaMint-UA_2013-06-18-m1.u71	copyrights on scientific works of any trademark patent, secret formula, process or information on industrial and commercial scientific experience. In addition, the income of the residents of Cyprus, located in Ukraine, is exempt from taxation. In accordance with article 9, paragraphs 3 and 2, of the Ukrainian International Contracts Act, this convention and its protocol are subject to ratification by the Supreme Council. The adoption of the Act will speed up the validity of the convention and its protocol, as well as the organization of relations between Ukraine and Cyprus in tax and tax matters. The acquisition of a valid convention will allow for an increase in the government budget of about 1 billion a year. Please be supportive. Thank you for your attention.
ParlaMint-UA_2013-06-18-m1.u72	Thank you. Have a seat, Yuri Volodymyrovich. Head of the Committee on European Integration, Grigory Mikhailovich Nemir. Two minutes, please.
ParlaMint-UA_2013-06-18-m1.u73	Dear Mr. Head, honourable national MPs, the Committee on European Integration at its meeting has considered the draft Law on the Ratification of the Convention between the Government of Ukraine and the Republic of Cyprus. During the discussion, we heard representatives of the Ministry of Foreign Affairs and the Ministry of Finance. Two opposite points of view were expressed. A positive one that suggested ratifying this law would approve of it, arguing that a new contractual legal basis would thus be established and that the 1982 treaty would cease to exist. The other side was negatively adjusted to this law, arguing that, first of all, this convention was signed with representatives of the previous Government of Cyprus and before the beginning of the very serious crisis that Cyprus is experiencing right now. Secondly, attention was also drawn to the fact that in the last year, the trade between Ukraine and Cyprus amounted to $79 billion, of which $62 billion was related to the sale or purchase of securities or property, which could indicate that some Ukrainian companies were exchanging their shares and corporate rights to shares, usually based on companies in Cyprus, which could then be used as part of shadow transactions. The committee decided to recommend to the Supreme Council that the agreement be ratified. However, I would like to point out that not all members of the committee support the ratification of the convention. Of the 12 in attendance, eight members of the committee voted in favour. Thank you for your attention.
ParlaMint-UA_2013-06-18-m1.u74	Thank you. Please register with the faction of the National Deputies. Please, Vitalia Calla, People's Deputy Victor Mikhailovich Pinzenik.
ParlaMint-UA_2013-06-18-m1.u75	Dear Head, distinguished national MPs! Many times in my life, I have had to prepare and consider double - taxation agreements. Every time I supported the texts of these agreements, they were normal, standard contracts. All we have is a deal with Cyprus. Why? Because there was an agreement between the former Soviet Union and Ukraine to avoid double taxation. The proposed text of the agreement tries to solve this problem, but unfortunately it does not solve it. I want to point out once again that I want to blame the government to a lesser extent, because I myself have had to deal with this agreement. We're in an awkward situation because a partner doesn't need a new deal that doesn't have any taxes. Hence, no government can achieve a good outcome. In 2007, I came up with a draft agreement, which was already good, which could be signed, but our partners refused to sign. In this regard, I propose to return to the suggestions I made a few weeks ago in this room. This treaty does not ratify, refrain from ratifying it, get rid of the deal that is now in force between Ukraine and Cyprus in part of the agreement between the Soviet Union and Cyprus. A few weeks from now, our party will be interested in the rapid adoption and ratification of the agreement. In a week, two of us will have a normal standard text of the agreement that will suit the interests of our country. I propose that the honourable national deputies identify themselves and support this initiative.
ParlaMint-UA_2013-06-18-m1.u76	Please join the Freedom People's Deputy Pankevitch.
ParlaMint-UA_2013-06-18-m1.u77	Dear Mr. Head, honourable deputies! The "Freedom" faction of the All-Ukrainian Union believes that the proposed agreement, despite a good name, will continue to serve for the benefit of only a few families in Ukraine. That is, the oligarchs who have won their billions are usually criminalized by the poverty of millions of Ukrainians. The draft law proposed by the government is virtually no different from the previous agreement of October 29, 1982, that is, the Soviet document. The agreement absolutely does not solve the longstanding problem of the withdrawal of oligarchs’ money abroad, nor does it solve the legal dependence of the vast number of Ukrainian farm societies on Cypriot offshorees, which are formal owners of their corporate rights, nor does it solve the problem of tax evasion in Ukraine that these offshores have received in the territory of our country. An analysis of the draft agreement, in particular articles 7, 11, 13, 21, shows that Ukrainian companies created or acquired by Ukrainian oligarchs continue to be nominal owners of corporate rights of most large businesses in Ukraine, that the change of owners of Ukrainian enterprises will continue beyond the state without paying the right amount of taxes on corporate rights, profits of Ukrainian enterprises, and will continue to be hidden in Cyprus, paying Cypriots taxes less than in Ukraine. And so Freedom against the adoption of laws that require oligarchs and destroy the economy of Ukraine is in favour of denunciation of the old agreement of 29 October 1982 and also against ratification of the project that is under consideration today. Thank you for your attention.
ParlaMint-UA_2013-06-18-m1.u78	The Fatherland faction, National Deputy Sergei Teryohin.
ParlaMint-UA_2013-06-18-m1.u79	Okay.
ParlaMint-UA_2013-06-18-m1.u80	Good evening, dear fellows! A few theses, first of all, this agreement was initialled, signed into a Cyprus crisis, then there were these basic agreements with other countries and Cyprus. After that, before giving two and a half billion aid to Cyprus, the European Union demanded that Cyprus impose taxes on any Cypriot company trading foreign shares, corporate capital. So there's a very interesting situation where Cyprus has already introduced this kind of tax, and it's only the Ukrainian shares of corporate rights, "rules", "tasis" and so on, and the SDs that have been swapped there, with some offshores, will not be taxed. Moreover, today’s covenant is not legitimate either. Because if you look at the law on Ukraine's succession under international agreements since 1991, the Vienna Succession Treaty of 1992, we have ratified it here, the Constitution of Ukraine, the Law on International Contracts, it turns out that all this money that we have exported to Cyprus all these years is illegal. And in order for me to advise you not to open the Pandora's box, we need today not to ratify this agreement, to entrust the government with further negotiations with the new Cypriot government. And finally, I'd like to say hello to the Communists. Twice I stood on this stand, twice the Communists did not vote in favour of denunciation of the agreement with Cyprus for one reason. Because there was a communist president. What the Communist president of Cyprus did, we all know. So one more time. The Fatherland faction will not support the ratification of such an agreement.
ParlaMint-UA_2013-06-18-m1.u81	Thank you. Party of regions, national deputy of Žuravsky. Out of the way, please.
ParlaMint-UA_2013-06-18-m1.u82	The Convention guarantees that entrepreneurs of one state will be taxed in another State under the same conditions as entrepreneurs of that other State. Well, who's against it? The convention is aimed at warning tax evasion. Who's against it? Additional conditions are being created to deepen Ukrainian-Cyprus economic relations. Who's against it? A committee on European integration by a majority of votes in favour. The faction of the Party of the Regions is "for." The convention should be ratified, thank you.
ParlaMint-UA_2013-06-18-m1.u83	Thank you. Please, National Deputy Oleg Lazko. Wait a minute.
ParlaMint-UA_2013-06-18-m1.u84	Oleg Lazko, Radical Party. Dear fellow national MPs! Just now, the United States Central Intelligence Agency has published information concerning Ukraine. Our country, according to the United States CIA, has second place in the world in terms of mortality. With us in the first place, South Africa. With us is Lesotho, Chad, and Guinea-Bissau. We are five, five Africans. Four African countries and our fifth. According to population growth rates, the population in Ukraine is at the end of the list - 227 countries out of 232. According to United Nations estimates, Ukraine’s population will fall by 15 percent by 2050. What are we talking about? Some go out to be praised, others go out to do more. Population, citizens of the country are dying. And our job is to stop this shameful policy, including by stopping capital withdrawals to Cyprus. The deal has to be cancelled.
ParlaMint-UA_2013-06-18-m1.u85	Thank you. The discussion is over. Please prepare for the vote. I am voting on the draft Law (0024) on the ratification of the Convention between the Government of Ukraine and the Government of the Republic of Cyprus on the avoidance of double taxation and the prevention of tax evasion in respect of income taxes and the Protocol thereto for adoption as a whole. Please vote. [[17:34:00]] For 215 Against 79, holding 36, not voting 59. The decision is not taken. The factions. [[B in m in s a l in]] What's the motive? There's no motive anymore. Peter Alexiyovich, there is no reason for the vote to be shortened. A draft law is under consideration. Huh? The Yavorowski People's Deputy, what question did you have?
ParlaMint-UA_2013-06-18-m1.u86	Vladimir Yavorowski, Fatherland, Troyshina, Kiev. Dear Volodymira Vasilovich, well, logic, basic logic, well, first of all, you have to do something about setting up, denunciation from the first one of those old half-dead, but active in Ukraine, this monster that sucks out of Ukraine all the forces that there is, that's that Soviet deal. It wasn't done. Let's hit the road. The convention is not supported, the bill is rejected. Now put my bill on denunciation, which was there, we will vote and solve this problem. It's logical, it's smart and it's timely. Most important. Please put on denunciation my bill and, by the way, Pinzenika. They're almost, there, we have the same, there, different to denounce this agreement, which, once again, sucked out of Ukraine its economic power, which. This Cyprus that's become a black hole, we're going to vote and we're going to put a dot.
ParlaMint-UA_2013-06-18-m1.u87	We don't have that law in order today. So there's nothing to put to the vote. Can you put the vote back on the first readout? [[B in m in s a l in]] People's Deputy Capplin. Then I'll give it to you. All factions will come out.
ParlaMint-UA_2013-06-18-m1.u88	The distinguished Ukrainian community, the distinguished voters in Poltava, Donetsk, Crimea, Western, Eastern, Central Ukraine, finally received answers today to these mysterious white boards of the party, which I call a party of light behavior, and it is registered as the Communist Party of Ukraine. Look, look how they voted for this Cyprus deal. In fact, it allowed today to continue to export, remove, remove pockets from ordinary Ukrainian citizens and deprive them of the last chance of saving those schools that are closing, those hospitals that are closing, allowing them to continue to produce oligarchs, allowing them to continue to rob the country. You promised millions of Ukrainians that you'd outsourced, that you'd take away Ukraine's oligarchs and have the ability to export what these people have to your own.
ParlaMint-UA_2013-06-18-m1.u89	Thank you. Peter Dusty, please turn on the microphone.
ParlaMint-UA_2013-06-18-m1.u90	Dear Vladimir Vasilovich, I would like to draw your attention to the fact that, after that, we do not have a second first reading in ratifying international treaties. Today, if this agreement did not take effect, it was not ratified, which means that an old agreement is in place, with absolutely no duty, at zero today, making profits that were to be included in the state budget for Cyprus. So I have an absolutely firm conviction that we should initiate five factions of the Denunciation Agreement with the leaders of Cyprus, and the next day, the Minister of Finance will have us negotiate with the Government of Ukraine a new content of the agreement that will protect the interests of the Ukrainian State budget. The request to make, to make this proposal in the next Conciliation Council, to resolve this issue. Thank you for your attention.
ParlaMint-UA_2013-06-18-m1.u91	The Communist Party faction, Simonenko Peter Mikolayovich.
ParlaMint-UA_2013-06-18-m1.u92	Simonenko, the Communist faction, the citizens of honor, I want to remind you that it was the Communists that the Soviet governments never appointed and approved offshore zones. During the 20 years that Ukraine has been transformed into zones, so have those who are now speaking in Slovaks, who have been assigned those offshore areas where they have been extorting this capital of Ukrainian citizens for 20 years and what Ukrainian citizens have been earning. And it's about the current issues that arise naturally. 5 or 7 million Ukrainian citizens work abroad. And there's a natural situation, he made money there, they're taxed there, he's come here -- the second one's gonna be skinning. So the point is that you don't hide behind human problems, and return your money to all the offshore companies, because that's where you've been melting them all these years. And I remind you again, you stole that money from offshore companies. Return them, please show that you've directed them to the real economy and then there will be.
ParlaMint-UA_2013-06-18-m1.u93	Ladies and gentlemen, I give the floor to the "Freedom" and all. All the factions came out, the question is obvious. Miroshenko, please, the Freedom Union.
ParlaMint-UA_2013-06-18-m1.u94	Igor Miroshnichenko, the All-Ukrainian Freedom Union. I'm very grateful to Peter Mikolaiovich for the offshore bill, and I apologize that he raised an important topic: the topic of hiding the funds, and perhaps the gold of the Communist Party, in Cyprus in offshore areas. I've asked that question before, and he hasn't responded at all. That's why I want to go to him personally and to the Ukrainian people, so everybody knows -- there's this Gamma television company on the air of Ukrainian television, so this Gamma television company is 50 percent owned by two of his sons, and 50 percent registered to Cyprus in the offshore zone, for which Peter Simonenko is now so fiercely fighting. [[B in m in s a l in]] Well, I guess so. To begin with, Peter Mikolaiovich, to withdraw money from offshore areas, to return it to Ukraine, not to hide from the Ukrainian workers you protect. And then tell us about how you will fight for the rights of workers. So return your money and the Gamma Company from the offshore zone of Cyprus in.
ParlaMint-UA_2013-06-18-m1.u95	Thank you. All right, here's the question. [[B in m in s a l in]] The questions are being considered, so we do not go back to him. I give the floor to Petra Mikolaiovich.
ParlaMint-UA_2013-06-18-m1.u96	Dear colleagues, these "nattigalics" are singing again what they've always been singing. I remind natigalikam of this, and I would like them to give themselves the answer, and where are their accounts of the main Hutnik satellite, where he keeps them in Luxembourg, or in other companies? He's the one who's funding Freedom. So it's easier for you to talk about it. And when, let's say, you mention today that it has something to do with the state of Ukraine, I remind you once again that just, let's say, look at your list carefully and who you have under what numbers and what calls they came up with. We know that! And then I ask again and again to draw attention to a project that is being taken and considered, whose interests it protects and how it is being used by the State to protect the interests of the people. And all of this comes from the evil one, because it's not the state that uses these laws, it's the oligarchs, that's the difference, in the approaches of the communists and the natigalics that are singing right now.
ParlaMint-UA_2013-06-18-m1.u97	Ladies and gentlemen, don't shout! Don't turn the Supreme Council of Replica! He didn't call his name! A draft Act (No 2037) is under consideration to amend some Ukrainian legislation on improving the activities of shareholders. How will we view it? That's one law we're going to consider and you're going to go get some rest. I'm sorry. I'm sorry. I'm sorry. I'll bet you a reduced vote. [[17:44:04]] For 181 84, held – 9, did not vote – 107. Decision taken. Reported to the head of the National Commission on Securities and Stock Markets, Dmitry Mikhailovich. Please. You have two minutes.
ParlaMint-UA_2013-06-18-m1.u98	Okay. Dear Vladimir Vasilovich, distinguished national MPs, you are invited to consider a draft Ukrainian Act amending some Ukrainian legislation to improve the activities of shareholders. The bill was drafted by the National Securities and Stock Market Commission to implement paragraph 18.1 of the national action plan for 2012. With a view to comprehensively improving the legislative standards for the activities of shareholders, the bill proposes to amend the Ukrainian Act on Shareholders in part: to improve the mechanism for determining the market value of securities; to prohibit shareholding societies from acquiring their own shares when they are placed; and to oblige the stockholders to remain on the stock exchange list, at least on one stock exchange, and so forth. The bill proposes to amend Ukraine’s Economic and Civil Codes, Ukraine’s laws on government regulation of the securities market, securities and the stock market, the state registration of legal entities, and the law on auditing. The adoption of the law is important because it will allow for such results. Increase Ukraine's rating of the World Bank and the International Finance Corporation as a result of the legislative settlement of the issue of ensuring the responsibility of shareholders. Introduce the obligation to disclose significant rights to shareholders. Introduce the responsibility of the corporate secretary’s position in shareholders’ associations. It should be noted that the Supreme Council's Chief Scientific and Expert Directorate has reached the conclusion of the bill.
ParlaMint-UA_2013-06-18-m1.u99	Let me finish.
ParlaMint-UA_2013-06-18-m1.u100	a number of comments and proposals to the bill and a possible outcome of the first reading of the adoption is noted on the basis of the bill. Please be supportive. Thank you for your attention.
ParlaMint-UA_2013-06-18-m1.u101	Thank you, sit down. A report by the head of the Economic Policy Committee, Andrew Volodymyrovich Ivanchuk
ParlaMint-UA_2013-06-18-m1.u102	Good day, Reverend Head, distinguished national MPs! On April 17, 2013, the Committee on Economic Policy considered the bill 2037 introduced by the Cabinet of Ministers. The project proposes to amend the Master's Code, the Civil Code, the Ukrainian Act on Shareholders and the Securities and Stock Market. The main scientific and expert management, in its conclusion of April 4, notes that the bill can be adopted on the first reading as a basis. On the committee, we made a positive decision and decided to recommend that the Supreme Council of Ukraine adopt the bill in the first reading as a basis. Thank you for your attention.
ParlaMint-UA_2013-06-18-m1.u103	Is there a need to discuss? Yes, please sign up for factions. Freedom Union, National Deputy of Cherniaków.
ParlaMint-UA_2013-06-18-m1.u104	Please pass on the word Golovko.
ParlaMint-UA_2013-06-18-m1.u105	Please, Head of the People's Deputies.
ParlaMint-UA_2013-06-18-m1.u106	Deputies! Mikhail Golovko, the All-Ukrainian Freedom Union. We've been discussing this issue on. This bill on the committee was indeed supported, because it is relevant today because it is precisely about the activities of shareholders that we need to improve legislation. So there are a number of new norms that need to be supported, namely, the introduction of a secretary position that allows for the control of the activities of shareholders, the provision of information to shareholders about the activities of shareholders, the provision of the original charter and other functions that are assigned to this position. It's also a series of comments to this bill, but we'll certainly put them on second reading and then we'll ask them to be, if they're taken into account, of course, our faction will support it. That's why we support this bill in the first reading. Thank you.
ParlaMint-UA_2013-06-18-m1.u107	I'm asking for the Vitalia Cliche Faction, Rosenko.
ParlaMint-UA_2013-06-18-m1.u108	Please pass the word to Caplin Sergio.
ParlaMint-UA_2013-06-18-m1.u109	Capt. Sergey.
ParlaMint-UA_2013-06-18-m1.u110	Sergey Kaplin, Vitalia Klitschka Faction, Poltavsk district, electoral district 144, Poltava. Our political power believes that the Supreme Council of Ukraine, with such a professional composition that the entire people of Ukraine and the committee have chosen, and the government should prepare a more professional, deep and comprehensively inclusive issue of the activities of shareholders. We have no right to look at the challenges that are today in the Ukrainian economy, seeing those processes that we need to sort, to achieve the highest possible level of transparency of activities, including equity societies, to systematize, to structure work. And to ensure at least the formation of a stock market in our country, to ignore the possibility of having a real document, a high-level bill. So we predict that all opposition political parties and also the majority should focus on this issue and create a document that would really make a serious, systemic breakthrough in addressing these important issues for the development of the Ukrainian economy. Thank you.
ParlaMint-UA_2013-06-18-m1.u111	Thank you. Party of regions, national deputy of Žuravsky.
ParlaMint-UA_2013-06-18-m1.u112	Please give the floor to the expert in this matter to Sergey Fedorovich Kaltsev.
ParlaMint-UA_2013-06-18-m1.u113	Please, Sergey Fedorovich Kaltz.
ParlaMint-UA_2013-06-18-m1.u114	The project proposes to amend Ukraine’s Economic and Civil Codes, Ukraine’s Act on Shareholders, Securities and Stock Markets, and some other laws aimed at further improving corporate governance in stockholder societies, enhancing the protection of shareholders’ rights, and adapting national legislation to European Union directives. In addition, the bill establishes that all public shareholders in our country are obliged to include their shares in the stock exchange list of at least one stock exchange. After that, public shareholders do not have the right to leave the market for securities, and they are obliged to notify shareholders and regulators of the market value of the shares quarterly. You have to select a new one. The mandatory introduction of corporate secretaryship in stockholder societies with 100 or more shareholders. The main scientific and expert management, in its conclusion of the fourth year of 2013, notes that the bill can be adopted in the first reading on the basis of comments and suggestions expressed by management. The committee decided to recommend to the Supreme Council of Ukraine a draft Ukrainian Act amending some Ukrainian legislation on improving the activities of shareholders to be adopted on the first reading as a basis. Thank you.
ParlaMint-UA_2013-06-18-m1.u115	The Fatherland faction, National Deputy Bondarenko.
ParlaMint-UA_2013-06-18-m1.u116	Vladimir Bondarenko, united opposition, Fatherland. This option, which we're offered, is actually taking some steps to improve the functioning of stock companies. I am, first of all, and how my colleagues are bribed by the fact that stockholder societies are starting to compare the rights of minority and majority shareholders, who were once completely unequal. Majority shareholders made any decision, not taking into account the opinion of the minority, and they could also actually set the stock price on their own, determine the value of the shares, and thus lead to the fact that some shareholders were forced to get rid of those shares. Moreover, there is a good standard that says that the shareholder may not personally participate in the congregation, may direct his representative or even make a written statement. This increases the ability of shareholders to influence general affairs. It is also good that if a shareholder’s government suffers damage or a shareholder’s association suffers such damage, they can be compensated for the full amount of government. I mean, today this bill is contributing to a better functioning of shareholders in Ukraine. But I'm afraid it's going to turn worse because the impact of large shareholders on the process of lawmaking is much greater. I would ask that the committee, as well as the factions of the Supreme Council, ensure equality of rights for all shareholders, as well as for the purchase of shares, and for their transformation, so that this process is really transparent. So I think we're going to be supporting this bill in the first reading, but we're not going to allow it to get worse in the upper room, which is often enough for us. So I would like to support this option and work on it, and adopt a normal law for Ukraine. Thank you.
ParlaMint-UA_2013-06-18-m1.u117	Ladies and gentlemen, the speech is over. Prepare for the vote. I'm betting on a draft bill (registration number 2037) to amend some of Ukraine's legislative acts to improve the activities of equity companies on the basis of adoption. Please vote. [[17:55:32]] For-300 Against 21, held – 1 and voted – 49. Decision taken. Ladies and gentlemen, we've got 15 minutes to get back to work. We have another law. [[B in m in s a l in]] No, no, yeah! Let's work. A draft Act (No.2406) amending article 154 of the Ukrainian Tax Code on the Promotion of the Development of Child Food Production is being submitted for consideration. That's an important question. Please, who's to consider the procedure? Please vote. [[17:56:35]] For 190 The report will now be and will be put to the vote. The solution. For – 190, against – 27, held – 8, did not vote – 145. Decision taken. What suggestions do the deputies have? [[B in m in s a l in]] Not in general, but on the ground. Can I lay this law on the ground? Huh? May I have your attention, national deputies, please? I am voting on draft Act No.2406 amending article 154 of the Ukrainian Tax Code to encourage the development of child food products for adoption. Please vote. [[17:57:52]] For 305 Against 0, held - 26, not 39. Decision taken. And one last question. We're looking at the bill. Look, we've got 17 minutes. We'll consider one more question and that's all. Draft Act (2341) amending article 8 of the Ukrainian Act "On the Order of Admission and Conditions of Circumstances of the Armed Forces of Other States in Ukraine" (for Multinational Teachings). How will we view it? I ask for a summary vote. Please vote. [[17:58:56]] For 196 Against 35, held – 6, not a vote – 130. Decision taken. The people’s deputy, Kyde, screamed more loudly. Turn on the microphone, what's your offer?
ParlaMint-UA_2013-06-18-m1.u118	Thank you. Alexy Kaida, faction of the All-Ukrainian Freedom Union. Vladimir Vasilovich, we propose to put and vote as a basis without discussion. Thank you.
ParlaMint-UA_2013-06-18-m1.u119	I'll bet you a vote. May I put it to a vote? I'm betting on the voting project so the committee can work. Draft Act (Registration No. 2341) amending article 8 of the Ukrainian Act "On the Order of Admission and Conditions of Circumstances of the Armed Forces of Other States in Ukraine" (for Multinational Teachings) for adoption as a basis and as a whole. Please vote. [[18:00:17]] For 303 Against-0, held-0, didn't vote-66. Decision taken. The evening session of the Supreme Council of Ukraine is closed. Thanks for the job. At 10:00 tomorrow, I'll be in the session room.
