ParlaMint-UA_2013-05-22-m0.u1	Good morning, distinguished national deputies, invited guests of the Supreme Council of Ukraine! People's deputies, please prepare for registration. I'd like to turn on the "Ray" system. [[10:02:18]] Registered -359 There were 359 national deputies registered in the hall. The morning session of the Supreme Council of Ukraine is open. Today is the birthday of the national deputy Yacenyuk Arseny Petrovich. Let us congratulate him on his birthday and wish him success. [[Applause]] Dear National Deputies! I inform you of the results of the work of the Supreme Council of Ukraine in plenary meetings on 21 May 2013. Forty-six issues of the agenda have been considered. As a result of their consideration, three laws and 17 regulations have been passed. Four bills are accepted as a basis. Two bills and eight draft decrees have been rejected. In accordance with Rule 25 of the Rules, we have 30 minutes Wednesday for the national MPs to make proposals, announcements, statements, messages. Therefore, I would like to ask the members of the people to sign up for the speech. Please sign up. Yes, U.K. Companies, National Deputy Kaletnik.
ParlaMint-UA_2013-05-22-m0.u2	Please pass the word to Shugalo Roman.
ParlaMint-UA_2013-05-22-m0.u3	National deputy Shulga, huh? People's deputy Shugalo.
ParlaMint-UA_2013-05-22-m0.u4	Roman Shugalo, faction of the Communist Party of Ukraine Dear Vladimir Vasilovich! Dear National Deputies! I would like to draw attention to the problem that concerns the people of Ukraine today, namely, regarding the illicitly high prices by the local authority of water and water tariffs. Today, there is a violation of consumers' rights to housing services throughout our country. Improper tariff increases without approval at public hearings, including those services that are not even used by homeowners. In virtually every region of the breach of tariff rules approved by the Ukrainian Cabinet of Ministers, performers are accounted for, and local authorities approve tariffs without public hearings. Failure to comply with the public hearing procedure leads to violations of the rights of consumers of such services, mass discontents, the lack of transparency of their ingredients, the inclusion of services that are not actually used by homeowners. For example, the city of Novodnystrovsk in the Chernivecki region shows a situation in which the inhabitants of many cities find themselves. Ignoring the requirements of Ukrainian law, Novodnystrovski Meszkivkonom raised water and water tariffs almost twice. The whole complexity and tragedy of the situation is the following. In many ways, the city’s demand for specific proposals for lowering and optimizing water and water tariffs has been ignored by the city’s authorities to this day. So far, the City Authority has not exercised proper control over the production and financial activities of the Heat Channel Authority, nor has a parliamentary commission been established. So far no public commission regulation has been issued to control the tariffs created by the city community. The City Council is completely ignoring citizens' demands for the reform of the Heat Channel Authority and the New Year's Housing Authority into an organization that could greatly contribute to the reduction of tariffs. Moreover, authorities have even ignored the targeted city community resolution (more than 3,000 signatures) on tariff review. And as a tribe, the idleness and uncontrolled power of the city in these matters is making the situation of the inhabitants, including the thermal power supply workers, who have become hostages of an artificial situation. In view of the foregoing, it can be concluded that the city authorities ignore the community's proposals, do not properly control the production and financial activities of utilities, do not take any measures to reduce unwarranted costs, do not comply with the State's requirements for the formation of water and water tariffs, and all the accumulated problems and debts want to be transferred to the community, to good law-abiding citizens. The faction of the Company requires the lifting of unfair and unlawful tariffs. For by what time will the lives of our citizens be like survival? The Company's faction draws attention to the problem and requires an immediate solution. Thank you for your attention.
ParlaMint-UA_2013-05-22-m0.u5	Party of regions, National MP Molotock.
ParlaMint-UA_2013-05-22-m0.u6	Please pass the word to Pottery Anatoly Dmitrovich.
ParlaMint-UA_2013-05-22-m0.u7	Pass the word, please. Talk to me.
ParlaMint-UA_2013-05-22-m0.u8	The city of Gorlovka, the central area of Donbas. Honourable Volodymira Vasilovich, National Deputies, today the President of Ukraine has launched and implemented an economic reform programme entitled "Affordable Society, a Competitive Economy, an Effective State", whose goal is to develop the economy by modernizing existing ones and creating new domestic productions. One of the priorities of the program is the coal sector, which provides energy and economic security for the state. Why is it vital to ensure the conservation and development of the coal industry and to treat coal miners in general? First of all, the coal sector is 225 coal companies that employ hundreds of thousands of Ukrainians. Secondly, in Donetsk, Lugansk, Lviv and Volin areas, coal-based coal-producing enterprises, that is, mines depend on the development of the infrastructure of each city, namely, the issues that each of us faces when we work in the districts. This is why preserving the existing coal mine potential, modernizing mining, providing social security for miners should be a priority for the Supreme Council and the Cabinet. What has been done specifically, and what needs to be done to develop the coal sector? First, the bankruptcy of coal companies with the adoption of Bill 1106 was suspended in March of this year. Second, Bills 1175 and 1178 provide for the restructuring of coal debt, the unlocking of coal bills. That's good. In doing so, it is necessary to adopt bills 2845, 2846 on the introduction of financial notes and changes to the state budget. It's very important for miners because last year equipment was made under budget guarantees, but they weren't developed at the right time, and the use of financial bills will allow miners to get the mountain technology that is now being used in factories. And there's also a problem that the miners of the country are talking to us -- this is a restriction on coal mining, which has resulted in more than 2 million tons of coal being accumulated in the mines and factories, and it needs to be solved. When it comes to the prospects for the development of the sector, there is a policy of privatizing government coal mines that will allow miners to work, developing mines for 15 years. But after closing, what then? This could lead to a decline in regions such as the United States of America.
ParlaMint-UA_2013-05-22-m0.u9	Finish up.
ParlaMint-UA_2013-05-22-m0.u10	where more than half a million Ukrainians live. And that's why the strategic direction of the Supreme Council's work is to support the current state of the coal sector, to create, together with the executive authority, an industrial mining development programme, to draft laws that determine how to create industrial enterprises, instead of mines after they close and stimulate the employment of our miners. Thank you for your attention.
ParlaMint-UA_2013-05-22-m0.u11	The Vitalia Klitschka faction, the People's Deputy of Kuren.
ParlaMint-UA_2013-05-22-m0.u12	Please pass the word to Irina Heratchenko.
ParlaMint-UA_2013-05-22-m0.u13	Irina Heratschenko, please.
ParlaMint-UA_2013-05-22-m0.u14	Irina Heratschenko, strike faction. Dear Ukrainians, you know that the most popular phrase in all the journalistic articles in the last three days is a quote from one of the prominent 20th-century politicians: "The fascists of the future will call themselves anti-fascists." And it really is. Because our native antifascists, so that they wouldn't get mixed up with anyone else, they also hired a gang of blackjackers, and just like in 1941, Ukrainians were thrown into a show of executions, they chased the budget away now: teachers, doctors in front of their antifascist rally. Just the facts. And consider these facts an official request from our faction to the Prime Minister of Ukraine, who promised not to bring the budget to these anti-fascist rallies. Donetsk, number 52, was expelled to the May 17 rally. Sevastopol was the funniest rally because they went with these posters called Delphinario Against Fascism. It's such a specific sense of humor in our local anti-fascists, instead of maybe advertising Zoszczenko and Saltykov-Schedrin, they're not trending right now. We are invited to laugh at the BTR massacres, which were used to create obstacles for the people of Kiev. I also want to say that we have mass facts of the Kyiv district education death, from Irpen, Vasilkova, New Ukraine, to New Ukraine, Vasilkova to the so-called anti-fascist rally. And all of this is an official request from our faction regarding the failure of the Prime Minister of Ukraine to carry out his mandate. We also particularly want to address the women of the anti-fascist faction of the Party of the Regions. Dear colleagues, when the snowstorm happened, all the leaders of the opposition apologized to you. Why didn't we hear from your anti-fascist chiefs an apology to our colleague, who is filming these anti-fascists in Parliament every day, Mr. Ephraim, that's exactly what I'm talking to you, Ollie Sniserchuk, when your fighters beat our fellow journalist. Today, a journalist is dangerous in Ukraine and is not responsible for any person in Ukraine. Today the Ukrainian police trust 1 percent of the population, that's less than the militias themselves, because they know what's going on at the precincts. After yesterday's speech by the minister of internal affairs, I think that's the bulk of those who trust the police have gone to zero. And that's why we're asking the Party of the Regions to apologize to Ukrainian journalists, to Ukrainian society for the fact that you're breaking the country up on a first date today, because you're shoving at the bones of those veterans who don't know who you'll call anti-fascists in a terrible dream. Please, before you bring your fighters to the rally, take them at least a minimal tour of the history they're talking about. Thank you for your attention. Glory to Ukraine!
ParlaMint-UA_2013-05-22-m0.u15	The Vitalia Klitschka faction, the people's deputy, Rosenko.
ParlaMint-UA_2013-05-22-m0.u16	The Vitalia Klitschka faction, Paul Rosenko. The Impact Group is deeply outraged by the situation and we are concerned about the financing of educational, scientific, health, social and cultural institutions and the whole budget area that took place today in May 2013. As you all know, at the beginning of the year, the Ministry of Finance led to all budgetary institutions, schools, schools, hospitals, the requirement to optimize budget expenditures to bring their numbers to the 2013 budget. This is actually a direct instruction to shorten the staff of all these budgetary institutions. In fact, the number of all budgetary institutions is shrinking dramatically today. Stress on education workers, health care is increasing, and wages remain, in fact, at the level of 2012. We have a paradoxical painting, Minfin says there's no money. At the same time, this year, the central apparatus and the Cabinet of Ministers and the President's Secretariat were considerably reduced. New ministries are being created, and a bureaucratic apparatus is growing. This authority is not for humans; it serves officials and serves those who protect these officials. That's why the impact faction again insists on changes to the government budget for 2013. Today, the government continues to defiantly violate the Wages Act, which clearly states that the first tariff level of the Single Tariff Network is to be set at the minimum wage. Today, 300 dollars is less than the minimum wage. Hence, every doctor, a teacher, a budget worker today receives between 300 and 1,500 dollars less than the legal wage. The second question. A year ago, on November 17, the President of Ukraine commissioned the Cabinet of Ministers of Ukraine to review the size of academic scholarships by March 1. To date, students receive scholarships of 400 dollars less than a living minimum. All of this is evidence of a budget crisis. It was Kabmin’s obligation to submit changes and additions to Ukraine’s State Budget, according to the results of the first quarter. The first quarter was two months ago. So the UDA faction requires the Cabinet of Ministers of Ukraine to immediately submit changes to the State Budget for 2013 and provide for an indexation of pensions, wages.
ParlaMint-UA_2013-05-22-m0.u17	Finish up.
ParlaMint-UA_2013-05-22-m0.u18	indexing pensions, wages, scholarships and all forms of social assistance in 2013. Thank you for your attention.
ParlaMint-UA_2013-05-22-m0.u19	Party of regions, National Deputy of the Kings.
ParlaMint-UA_2013-05-22-m0.u20	Dear colleagues, I wanted to talk to you about corruption in law enforcement. Dear colleagues, we have been in the Dnepropetrov region for six months, and I know, not only in the Dnepropetrov region, there is such a shameful phenomenon when they dig up roads that were built by colossal stoves that were built in Soviet times. I was approached by the inhabitants of the Krnichan district of one of the villages. The road's five kilometers long, it's been dug up completely, and the children of this winter were forced to walk by hand to school, because the school bus and no transportation at all can now travel to this place. I was only able to drive in a jeep and only by this road because once the plates were dug, it's impossible to get on that road. I've been hunting this gang for six months, digging roads in Dnepropetrov region, digging up plates. I got a call from the residents of the Tomakov district, and I came here to pick up documents. People blocked the road. There were cranes, there were cars. The following day, the prosecutor of the Tomakov district released these bandits who were looting. In the actions of the prosecutor of the Tomakov district, we have studied the documents carefully, and I see the floor. There's really a basement. I see a nuisance. He tried to meet him, he came, he ran away from me, I went to the office, the place was warm, and there was no prosecutor. I would like to say that I am referring to the law enforcement authorities, the Attorney General, to the Chief of the BSS, to Zacharychenko, consider my statement an official statement. Today, in Dnepropetrovsk oblast, I am being called from the Sinelnikov region, the area of Nicopolsk, and this practice continues. Those who have dug up the water system in south-east Ukraine have already dug up this system, and they continue to work under the cover of law enforcement authorities to dig up roads. We found a company, a factory in which there was a site, where 1.5-2,000 plates are now standing. They buy the plates that come from Dnepropetrovsk, Zaporozhye district. It's been two hours. I drove away, and the residents told me, "Where are the cars with the plates going?"..
ParlaMint-UA_2013-05-22-m0.u21	Let me finish. Finish it, please.
ParlaMint-UA_2013-05-22-m0.u22	I mean, once the plates are cleared, what's the DA's office gonna cover? Maybe she'll cover the transplants of these people who live in villages that can't be reached? Where's the conscience? Think of God?
ParlaMint-UA_2013-05-22-m0.u23	National MP Mikhalchisin, Freedom faction.
ParlaMint-UA_2013-05-22-m0.u24	Please pass the word to my colleague, Irina Dmitry Faryon.
ParlaMint-UA_2013-05-22-m0.u25	The word “Pharion ” is rendered. People's Deputy Pharyon, Freedom faction.
ParlaMint-UA_2013-05-22-m0.u26	Ladies and gentlemen! Today is a special day for Taras Grigorovitch to return to Ukraine. According to German philosopher Hadamer, "happiness is a return to his homeland," true, returned to his homeland. But we have another unique day today, because Taras Shevchenko in the form of a bust came to us, to the Supreme Council. I am telling the absolute truth because the great-granddaughter of Taras Shevchenk along the line of Catherine Vera Timoshenko, I stress, Vera Timoshenko, gave the Supreme Council three days ago the bust of Taras Shewchenk by Mrs. Leonori Bloch, a breast made in 1933. You can look at it on the third floor of our hall. This breast will be marked by bullet holes, and one of the bullets from which you can see too well, in the chest of Taras Shevchenk. I recommend that the Party of the Regions and the Communists stick their finger in this bullet hole, because they don't vote in favour of the Vienna Battle Order, but I remind you that 55,000 Allied troops took part in the Vienna Battle, and there were 28,000 Ukrainians. They don't vote first of all for celebrating the Jubilee of the Flower of Tisik, they don't celebrate the coronation of the King of Daniel, because the word "king" beats them because they live at the coordinates of "kings." So maybe we should pack our suitcases and go to our kings? But I'm going back to Taras Grigorovich Shevchenk. (Close your scream!) So honoring Shevchenk's memory is not about putting flowers at his foot. The celebration of Shevchenk's memory is the implementation of his covenants, and Taras Shevchenko left us two basic covenants. The first will is a language that is too eloquent: "I will set up a word for the little ones who are dumb." They have not ceased to be slaves because they use the language of the occupying State. The second will of Taras Grigorovovich Shevchenka: "Trust the will with evil blood!" To them, the enemy became his own people, for they ride as carriers against their own people. So before we talk about Shevchenk, we need to get a good look at his creativity. And I also want to remind you that it's for your authority that you've just started publishing once again the illustrious "cobsars," because it's Cobsar, published in Kharkiv, that came out without the "Rolling Tomb" and "Cold Spring." It was you who destroyed the Shevchenka Light Museum in Kanev, turning it into a morgue with a conference hall and precious white leather chairs, in which Janukovich would hide from his own people. You're not the one who's going to spend any money on the academic production of Chewchenk's works! It was your local authority in Church this year that prohibited 11 classmates from reading the poem "The Ruin of the Grave" by Taras Shevchenk! You're the one who's panicking about the Chechnya.
ParlaMint-UA_2013-05-22-m0.u27	Let me finish. Ten seconds. We're done. Thank you. Have a seat. People's deputy Glazunov, faction of the Party of the Regions.
ParlaMint-UA_2013-05-22-m0.u28	Bondarenko, I give you my word.
ParlaMint-UA_2013-05-22-m0.u29	A word has been delivered to the National Deputy Bondarenko, faction of the Party of the Regions.
ParlaMint-UA_2013-05-22-m0.u30	Bondarenko Elena, Party of the Regions. Deputies, journalists, viewers and listeners! I would like to draw your attention to the details of the long-awaited innovative television and radio law, a law that directly affects the work of 187,000 journalists, operators and other television and radio workers whose legal effect will affect the state of Ukrainian television, 45 million of our audiences and listeners. The last edition of the Act, under which the whole industry lived and worked, was adopted in 2006. During this time, the signal technology has gone far ahead and the law has remained in place. That is why it has become a set of rules that are designed to help the media, audiences and Power into a trap and a graveyard of hopes for the entire industry. What have we got so far? Limited choice of television content, lack of domestic television, rather low quality air content, technical disadvantages in receiving the signal, and often the viewer's price even on the simplest package of television programs. What do we want? Maximum choice and pluralism on the air, more national television programmes, high quality content, affordable price and comfort in receiving the signal, and safe for children and adults in the information area [[B in m in s a l in]] The task of rewriting the law is long overdue. This is what our national electronic media market requires. And that's what they're asking us to do in the European Union. A year ago, I took on this responsible load. Together with the experts of the Council of Europe and the representatives of all those who wished to participate in this complex work of social industry organizations, we presented the concept at the outset and then started the text of the new law. We've almost finished it. [[B in m in s a l in]] So what's innovative about television radioblíblí. The principle of technological neutrality, this time. Changing the nature of the relationship between the National Council and the radio organizations from hostile to partner is two. The protection of the Ukrainian producer and the saturation of its domestic teleproduced space are three. The clarity, simplicity and universality of the market rules are four [[B in m in s a l in]] Every month, a working group formed by the Parliamentary Committee on Freedom of Speech and Information discusses and refines the details of the new law. Working on it is completely transparent. Materials, namely the concept of the law and its actuarial project, can be found on the Internet and made available to anyone who wants to. Study, criticize, offer your options, help see the gap and strengthen its benefits before it reaches parliament.
ParlaMint-UA_2013-05-22-m0.u31	Let me finish 10 seconds.
ParlaMint-UA_2013-05-22-m0.u32	Thank you very much. And the last. I call on all the indifferent, especially those working in the public sphere, in the third sector, to become co-sponsors of the future of innovative Ukrainian television. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-UA_2013-05-22-m0.u33	People's MP Mirny, Freedom faction.
ParlaMint-UA_2013-05-22-m0.u34	Alexander Mirny, the All-Ukrainian Freedom Union. Respectable Society! I want to remind you that today, unfortunately, only the land and gas transport system remained the property of the Ukrainian people. And unfortunately, there are attempts to either take it or take it away again, because privatization is impossible to call it. I want to remind everyone what a gas transport system is. It's not just the shortest route to Europe, it's primarily the unique underground gas shelters that the Lord has given us. What's going on now? A group of people believe that we have the right, that the Lord has given the people, either to take or to sell, or simply to use our own judgment. What will happen if, God forbid, a bill on the privatization of the gas system is again submitted? First, "Freedom" will not allow this bill to be adopted in any way. We're warning you right now. It's different. The question is, Why is it that the explanation that we lack funds and that we cannot modernize the gas transport system, we cannot withstand any criticism? I want to remind you that even according to the Court of Auditors there is such an abuse that a normal person can't understand it. Excuse me, if the 4 bracelets are sold for 400 bracelets of Naftogazu, where will the money come from? That's the first question. The second question. What will we do if this is privatized, and God forbid, will be privatized by a foreign state? What will we be able to influence in the work of this gas transport system? Can we wait for the introduction of armies to protect the property of a foreign state? Is this conscious provocation? Next question. What do consumers gain from this? Absolutely nothing. Because the example of privatized liars proves that as soon as the owner appears, the tariffs are up. Please tell me, can a peasant put an investment ingredient in milk at the cost of milk? Are there any such examples? None. Why are we putting in an investment component for an oblenergo? Why are we putting in an investment component for gas companies? Double standards, gentlemen! Once again, I stress that Freedom will prevent the GTS from being privatized. And believe me, it won't even be May 18. Glory to Ukraine!
ParlaMint-UA_2013-05-22-m0.u35	The Yank People’s Deputy, the Freedom faction, conveys the word of Viacheslav Kirilenko.
ParlaMint-UA_2013-05-22-m0.u36	I am grateful to the faction of "Freedom" for the word delivered. Viacheslav Kirilenko, Fatherland faction, Party "For Ukraine!" Honorable Ukrainian colleagues today honor the memory of Taras Grigorovich Shevchenk, who returned to his native Ukrainian land many years ago. Yesterday, the Committee on Cultural Affairs held a hearing on the subject of preparation for the 200th anniversary of Taras Shevchenk, which will be celebrated by all mankind in the following year. Many valuable words and good suggestions have been made. But here are the main problems that are being presented right now. Consider the experience of other nations who celebrated the Jubilee of their geniuses. All Poland talked about Mickevich, the Austrians talked about Mozart all year long, and the Russians talked about Pushkin. We don't have a TV channel about Shevchenko, either state or private. Is this how it's done? We'll keep our mouths shut until March 9th next year and report -- the Orgcommitt conducted so many formal shares and placed the pieces. Visual advertising. Are we seeing anything other than beer, vodka, and all the other useless things about Shevchenk? Are there any advertisements on these boards from his unforgettable verses? There's nothing here. Keep your mouth shut. This is how the authorities prepare for Shevchenka’s Jubilee. It is said that the encyclopedia of the complete collection of works will be published and so forth. It is good that these things will be published, but please tell us whether the Ukrainian State should issue millions of copies available to ordinary people, and children above all, books and booklets with simple and main texts of Taras Shevchenka with millions of copies, not just some elite editions that will be printed in 500, 700, 1,000 copies. Should we not finally make sure that all the students from all the schools throughout the entire course go to Kanev, the Morenci, Kirilovka, Shevchenkov, the Budish, all the other places connected with Shevchenk, knowing that the foot of our great genius was going there? Not as it is now, that almost, apart from the memorable dates of the museum, these are empty. And who's going to make this happen, the Minister of Tobacco, who's doing everything against Ukraine, he's going to do the Shevchenk? Whether the present authority will be a heart, not a branch, to honor Shevchenk. The Ukrainian authorities duly honor Taras Shevchenk when he becomes in Ukraine. And as Eugene Sverstük said yesterday at our hearings: "In order for Ukrainians to learn to honor Taras Shevchenk, Ukrainians need to learn to respect themselves." Glory to Ukraine!
ParlaMint-UA_2013-05-22-m0.u37	Ladies and gentlemen, let us consult with you. We're running out of time for this. But there is a request for a word from non-fractional members, although if there are no objections to national MPs now. Although I want everyone to know that on Wednesday, when it's time for the national MPs to speak, the recording is done according to the random number generator without accounting for the faction. Ladies and gentlemen, shall we give it to the non-factional?
ParlaMint-UA_2013-05-22-m0.u38	There's a denial. Dear colleagues, the list of issues proposed for discussion and decision-making, you have today. Let us go to their consideration. In accordance with article 131 of the Supreme Council of Ukraine's Rules of Procedure, a proposal is made by the Head of the Supreme Council of Ukraine on the elimination of disagreements in the text of the adopted Ukrainian Law amending the Criminal and Criminal Procedure Codes of Ukraine with regard to the implementation of the European Union visa liberalisation action plan for Ukraine. Dear colleagues, the suggestions you have been given, allow me to explain the substance of these suggestions. On April 18, 2013, you and I passed two bills as laws necessary for the liberalisation of the European Union's visa regime for Ukraine. These were bills for registration numbers 2802 and 2803. The first one, number 2802, May 13, 2013 signed by the President of Ukraine, will take effect from the day of its publication. At the same time, when preparing for the signature of the law, which was Bill No. 2803, there were editorial disagreements in its text with the text already signed by the President of Ukraine of the law. Considering that these two laws take effect in different periods, one, 2802, immediately after publication, and the other, 2803, six months after publication, as well as the fact that they are missing separate positions, it is necessary, in accordance with Rule 131 of the Rules, to remove the discrepancies and inaccuracies recorded as Bill No. 2803. Dear colleagues, let us consult with you. We can put appropriate proposals to the vote. Will we discuss each proposal, vote separately? All together? I'll bet you a vote. [[B in m in s a l in]] Dear colleagues, according to the Rules, we do not have a discussion on 131 articles. I asked you, we can now put each individual proposal to a vote, we can all put it together. [[B in m in s a l in]] The document was handed out almost two weeks ago to all the national deputies. Please ask. Vote. I would like to vote on the proposals put forward by the Head of the Supreme Council of Ukraine on the elimination of disagreements in the text of the adopted Ukrainian Law on Amendments to Ukraine's Criminal and Criminal Procedure Codes on the implementation of the European Union's Action Plan on Liberalisation of the Visa Regime for Ukraine. People's deputies, please vote. [[10:40:48]] For 256 Proposals for the settlement of disagreements are accepted. For 256 national deputies. Ladies and gentlemen, let's move on to chapter one. A draft Law amending the Ukrainian Code of Budget on Environmental Tax Accounting (project registration 2126) is being introduced. I offer to consider the reduced procedure. Please vote. [[10:41:45.]] For 133 The offer is not supported. The decision is not taken. Welcome, reporter, National Deputy of Ukraine Seh Irina Igorovna, 10 minutes.
ParlaMint-UA_2013-05-22-m0.u39	Dear National Deputies! Your opinion is proposed by Bill No. 2126 on amending the Ukrainian Budget Code for the Accounting of Environmental Taxes. The main objective is to ensure that local self-government authorities and local executives can implement the powers set out in articles 15 and 20-4 of the Ukrainian Environmental Protection Act, without reducing the percentage of environmental taxes to local budgets compared to 2011-2012. The so-called budget reform introduced since early 2011 has greatly reduced the financial base of local budgets, taking away the ability to properly address environmental issues in local communities. Ukraine's new Budget Code, which entered into force from 1 January 2011, provides for a gradual reduction in the percentage of environmental taxes to the special local budget fund from 70 per cent in 2011-2012 to 35 per cent in accordance with article 69, section 2, paragraph 10, of the Code, starting in 2014, as well as an increase of 30 per cent in the state budget special fund from 2011-2012 to 65 per cent in 2014. The bill has been proposed since 1 January 2014 to return to the distribution of environmental taxes, which was foreseen by the Ukrainian Budget Code at the time of its adoption, namely, 50 per cent of the tax is proposed to be included in the special fund of rural (rural), urban budgets, 20 per cent of the special fund of district budgets and the Autonomous Republic of Crimea budget, 30 per cent of the special fund of the State Budget. The Ministry of Finance, in its expert opinion to the bill, notes that the adoption of the bill is not appropriate, and notes that the distribution of environmental taxes between the State and Local Budgets special fund ensures the continued and effective channelling of funds to finance targeted projects for the green modernisation of Ukrainian industrial enterprises, which contribute to reducing the environmental impact of enterprises. However, to date, this order of directing funds to finance purely targeted projects, environmental modernisation of enterprises within the limits of the environmental tax they pay, unfortunately, is not approved by the Cabinet of Ministers. And the design of this order is so that not all companies that pay the environmental tax are getting the upgrades back. Thus, the government's proposed order, in fact, legitimizes the illegal flow of funds from some enterprises that pay fair environmental taxes and are expected to receive back some of the funds for environmental modernisation to others that are recognized by officials. The Committee on Environmental Policy, Environmental Management and the Elimination of the Effects of the Chernobyl Disaster believes that the main financial costs for environmental protection measures aimed at the removal of environmental pollution should be borne by the polluting enterprise itself, and the costs they pay for pollution, that is, environmental taxes, should stimulate them towards environmental modernization. Bill No. 2126 proposed to amend the Ukrainian Code of Budget on Environmental Tax Accounting, jointly supported by representatives. People's deputies, representatives of all political parties at the Committee on Environmental Policy meetings. Considering that the bill is in line with the main thrust of the draft concept of reforming local self-government and territorial governance in a country approved by the Cabinet of Ministers of Ukraine on 8 April 2013, aimed at strengthening the role of local self-government in Ukraine and strengthening the financial base. Please support this legislative initiative, which will allow some 1.3 billion dollars to be included in the local budget special fund to address environmental protection problems. This will enable the implementation of an important environmental principle: the polluter and the consumer pays, approved by the Organization for Economic Cooperation and Development in 1972 as an economic principle for compensation for pollution costs. This will enable pollution companies to be stimulated to reduce environmental pollution, which will allow for environmental tax-derived funds to form the foundation of the state and republican environmental protection funds. I want to say that this bill is supported by local self - government bodies that are waiting for real and effective support. I also want to say that there are no serious observations by the scientific and scientific authorities before this bill. There is no need for additional, in fact, financial resources and budgetary burden. And at the Committee on Budgets, the bill was also supported. I'm addressing the major MPs who are present in this room. This bill awaits many local councils — city councils, district councils, and district councils. This will be a real support and real help to local self - government. Thank you.
ParlaMint-UA_2013-05-22-m0.u40	Ladies and gentlemen, will there be questions for the rapporteur? They won't. Have a seat, please. There will be questions. Please register with the national deputies for a question. National Deputy Odarchenko, Fatherland faction.
ParlaMint-UA_2013-05-22-m0.u41	Yuri Odarchenko, Fatherland Party. First of all, I want to thank the drafter of the bill for introducing the formulae for the distribution of environmental taxes, and that's very correct. I'd like to ask how you feel about the author of such a law, whether it would be fair to apply such approaches to a transport tax that is being distributed very unfairly in a closed form in Ukraine today, and we see that local self-government does not receive funds to support the transport network. Do you think it's right that we need to change the budget code at all, which in the formula would distribute all the funds to the city and village levels, as proposed by the previous government of Yulia Timoshenko, and such a draft code was voted on in due course. Thank you.
ParlaMint-UA_2013-05-22-m0.u42	Of course, I think it's right and it's already a parliamentary initiative on the allocation of subsidies, so that subsidies are distributed according to the number of people living in a given territorial unit, one area or another. This will enable, regardless of whose government it is, but approaches to the territories will be just, right and just.
ParlaMint-UA_2013-05-22-m0.u43	Pavlovsky National Deputy, Fatherland faction.
ParlaMint-UA_2013-05-22-m0.u44	Andrew Pavlovsky. Mrs. Irina! This is a necessary and urgent bill, and the Fatherland faction will support it with regard to changes to the Environmental Tax Budget Code. But along with how do you view making changes to the budget code in general and, as the government of Yulia Timoshenko has suggested, 80 percent of all congregations and taxes should be left in place, support real local self - government, and 20 percent should be sent to Kiev to the center? This would be a real restoration of self - government. Thank you.
ParlaMint-UA_2013-05-22-m0.u45	Thank you. Let's work together on this legislative initiative.
ParlaMint-UA_2013-05-22-m0.u46	National Deputy Dry, faction of the Party of the Regions.
ParlaMint-UA_2013-05-22-m0.u47	Thank you. Jaroslav Suchy, the city of Zaporozhye, the Party of the Regions Dear Irina Igorovna! You know, this bill for our techno-loaded regions is probably of vital importance. And I have a question for you in the field of norm-tech. Here are the comments that you've been given by government structures. Do you think before the second reading you can fix something, make sure we don't get the veto then? Because you're raising the problem right and we're supporting you. Thank you.
ParlaMint-UA_2013-05-22-m0.u48	Thank you for asking. I've already said that the science-expert management doesn't have any significant notes, for second reading, all the comments can be, can be adjusted, thank you.
ParlaMint-UA_2013-05-22-m0.u49	People's Deputy Lucenko, Fatherland faction.
ParlaMint-UA_2013-05-22-m0.u50	The Fatherland faction will support this bill. As a deputy, I have a district, the city of Canov. There's a very serious problem. It went down by a foot and a half in the water in the artesian wells, in view of the fact that the Myron chicken company uses the artesian water itself for the technological process. This is a very serious problem. And we're preparing a question for you about possible hearings on this subject. We support this bill. Thank you for your offer.
ParlaMint-UA_2013-05-22-m0.u51	Thank you.
ParlaMint-UA_2013-05-22-m0.u52	Zabzaluk National Deputy, Fatherland faction.
ParlaMint-UA_2013-05-22-m0.u53	Mrs. Irina, of course, the faction will support this bill. He is very urgent, considering that this criminal authority today not only robs the budget but also leads to catastrophic environmental situations. In particular, if the brothers in the Mikolai region are involved, there is a very urgent problem of slapping in the field of the Mikolai Agricultural Plant, along with the Taslic AES. Because, of course, today we need and need to control the purpose of using these funds directly for ecology. Therefore, the request to continue to develop a number of measures to control the use of these funds at the local level.
ParlaMint-UA_2013-05-22-m0.u54	Thank you.
ParlaMint-UA_2013-05-22-m0.u55	People's Deputy Mohnik, Freedom faction.
ParlaMint-UA_2013-05-22-m0.u56	Please pass the word to Mikhalchino.
ParlaMint-UA_2013-05-22-m0.u57	To pass on the word to Michalchisin, national MP Mikhalchisin.
ParlaMint-UA_2013-05-22-m0.u58	Yuri Mikhailchisin, the All-Ukrainian Freedom Union. Irina Igorino, and in the conclusion of the Ministry of Ecology and Natural Resources of Ukraine, there is a statement that is hard to say, otherwise absurd. In particular, for some reason, this beautiful ministry claims that the increase in revenues from local environmental funds will not have a positive impact on their strengthening. Please comment on such a brilliant conclusion from the Ministry of Education. Thank you.
ParlaMint-UA_2013-05-22-m0.u59	Thank you for asking. Of course, no ministry would want or would want to give money to be in place because it has an impact. I believe that no one is better off than local authorities do not know the problem of their territory, which will be the most optimal and the most necessary place to direct these funds. And all of us together, members of the Supreme Council, members of the local councils, should see if all the funds were used as effectively as possible. Because, in fact, society, poverty, we are not talking about it, but thousands of diseases, the diseases that are today, are related to an extremely complex environmental situation. Today, it is necessary to beat all the bells about children dying, about children being born today with pathology. This has to do with a terrible environmental situation. And today we have every opportunity to influence and at least make a drop to improve the environment. Thank you.
ParlaMint-UA_2013-05-22-m0.u60	Thank you, sit down, please. Correspondent is Head of the Committee on Budget Affairs, Geller Evgeny Borisovich. The correspondent is Eugene Borisovich Geller, from the committee.
ParlaMint-UA_2013-05-22-m0.u61	Dear Igor Grigorovich, distinguished national deputies and invited! On April 17, the Committee on Budget Affairs considered Bill 2126. It should be noted that the Tax Code introduces a step-by-step increase in environmental taxes in 2013 and 2014, while at the same time the Budget Code provides for a gradual increase in environmental tax deductions to the State budget with the aim of channelling part of such costs towards environmental modernisation of enterprises. In this regard, it is considered that the gradual decline in environmental taxes on local budgets will be offset by an increase in the rate of the tax. Thus, the applicable rules of the Tax and Budget Codes are interlinked and harmonized. According to the Ministry of Finance, the adoption of the bill would result in the loss of revenue from the state budget special fund of 1.3 billion dollars. However, the bill did not provide financial and economic calculations and proposals to achieve a balanced budget that did not meet the requirements of the Budget Code and the Rules of the Supreme Council. The Chief Scientific and Expert Office believes that an expert opinion of the government is needed in order to make a balanced decision. The Ministry of Finance and the Ministry of Environment and Natural Resources do not support the adoption of the bill, considering that the dispersion of environmental taxes between local environmental funds and the absence of a single focal point for these funds to carry out special conservation measures will not allow large-scale measures to be taken to eliminate and reduce environmental pollution. As a result of the committee's consideration, the committee adopted such a decision, recommending a bill to the Supreme Council on number 2126 to be adopted on a basis. Thank you for your attention.
ParlaMint-UA_2013-05-22-m0.u62	Thank you. Will there be questions for a coconspirator? There will be questions. Eugene Borisovich, there will be questions. Please sign up for the question. Eugene Borisovich, please, on the rostrum. There's a question for the people's deputies. National Deputy Odarchenko, Fatherland faction.
ParlaMint-UA_2013-05-22-m0.u63	Yuri Odarchenko, Fatherland Party. Say, please, this is your party you represent called the Party of Regions. And if they're reading your programming principles, above all they're predicting the development of the regions, well, I get it, local communities. Tell me why you don't trust, your party, your government, doesn't trust local self-government, and it does everything to prevent them from giving them authority, not to reinforce the financial base of areas, cities, villages of territorial communities, but rather to remove these funds, and you motivate them with deliberate arguments, as if you're using them more effectively by distributing them to the center. The whole of Ukraine, the entire Ukrainian community has an absolutely clear and vivid example of how effectively you allocate money from transportation revenue. We see that the road is a solid pit, that there's a massive theft, and at the level of cities, it's been done more honestly and transparently.
ParlaMint-UA_2013-05-22-m0.u64	Thank you for asking. But I want to tell you that your question is more like a election slogan. And what you asked me, I said in my answer. Thank you.
ParlaMint-UA_2013-05-22-m0.u65	One second. National Deputy Evening, faction of the Party of the Regions.
ParlaMint-UA_2013-05-22-m0.u66	Deputy Evening, faction of the Party of the Regions. Eugene Borisovich, please tell us today that we are raising an important social, environmental, technological problem. We have to add the funds. Why is it that the Ministry of Finance does not always support those socially important bills, but they only support their bills, where there is a redistribution of state funds? I want to ask you, this is a social problem. Are we supporting her or not supporting her? And it's related to ecology. Ecology is extremely bad in our country today. When will the money for environmental programs be available? Please.
ParlaMint-UA_2013-05-22-m0.u67	Thank you for asking. But this is more of a question for the Ministry of Finance. I think there'll be a Kabmin on Friday, there'll be a minister of finance, you'll ask him a question, he'll answer that. Thank you.
ParlaMint-UA_2013-05-22-m0.u68	Please sit down, Eugene Borisovich. Ladies and gentlemen, please sign up for the factions. National MP Gordienko, Communist faction.
ParlaMint-UA_2013-05-22-m0.u69	Sergei Gordijenko, faction of the Ukrainian Company, Poltavščina. The faction of the Ukrainian Company has carefully considered the bill and has a number of important observations to it. And we suggest that we vote in the first reading and work together. But the question arises at the next stage, if these costs are accumulated, then order their distribution. Because if we look at the history of this question, we know that often the same costs have been used in an extremely interesting way. There are many objects under which environmental funds were allocated, each new authority that was coming, initiating reconstruction, construction, or other new objects, forgetting that the old are unfinished, and that these funds were scattered. But in the first reading, the faction of the Company of Ukraine proposes to support it.
ParlaMint-UA_2013-05-22-m0.u70	National deputy Zelik, Freedom faction.
ParlaMint-UA_2013-05-22-m0.u71	Please pass the word to Yuri Mikhalchisin.
ParlaMint-UA_2013-05-22-m0.u72	To pass on the word Mikhalchisin. National MP Mikhalchisin.
ParlaMint-UA_2013-05-22-m0.u73	Yuri Mikhalchisin, the All-Ukrainian Freedom Union. Dear Mr. Head! Dear colleagues! We are indeed considering an important initiative today that has a complex not only ecological but also humanitarian and social character. We have just witnessed the denial of Ukraine's Ministry of Finance. We've heard the argument of the financial order. But I would like to ask you, including the distinguished members of the Party of Regions. These changes to legislation, including the Budget Code, were adopted in 2010. Changes to the Tax Code were adopted in 2011. Until now, the Cabinet of Ministers of Ukraine has not adopted and has not approved the approval of the modalities for the use of funds provided for in the State budget for the financial provision of targeted projects in the greening of enterprises, and the approval of the procedure for the selection of targeted projects for the environmental modernisation of enterprises, which would ensure the effective use of the relevant public budget funds. What does that mean, society? And that means that in 2013 there is no mechanism for rational use of environmental taxes in the absence of an appropriate legal and regulatory framework. This means that these funds are just going to be stolen into someone's pocket. We've heard the argument that 1 billion 300 million dollars does not get a special government budget fund. At the same time, they forgot to say that the same 1 billion 300 million receive special funds from local budgets. I would also like to remind you that we now have an ongoing trend in the nation's comprehensive destruction of the environmental protection system. The sites are cleared of the territorial units of the Ministry of the Environment, and their functions are transferred to the relevant departments of the district authorities. I would also like to say that, in an absurd way, the state relies on local self-government authorities and their executive powers under the Ukrainian Environmental Protection Act and forgets to provide them with funds. I don't think it's random. Unfortunately, the Party of Regions is a party of regions only by name. In fact, you're a bunch of killers in the region because you're killing their financial self-sufficiency. What is local self - government without the right to manage the land, the cost, without the right to decide for yourself the issue of local importance? There's nothing strange about this, because Donetske bourgeois is a hater and killer of the Ukrainian paradise. And today you're killing local self-government on an ecological level, and you're still killing it in Kiev. Right now, in these moments, I want to remind you, there's an attempt at a derelict, farewell session of the Kyiv City Council, which is blocked by MPs of freedom, where 300 issues of daytime order are aimed at stealing things that haven't been stolen in Kiev in 20 years. So the faction of the All-Ukrainian Freedom Union calls on you to support this bill. In general, it is your responsibility to protect the rights of the territorial communities before the electorate. Thank you very much. () [[Applause]]
ParlaMint-UA_2013-05-22-m0.u74	National Deputy Odarchenko, Fatherland faction.
ParlaMint-UA_2013-05-22-m0.u75	Yuri Odarchenko, Fatherland Party. Dear colleagues, first of all, I would like to thank the author of this bill, Irina Sekh, for introducing such clear rules of the game of accumulation and distribution of environmental taxes. This is a perfectly correct norm, which shows her interest as a national deputy in ensuring that local communities, the so - called regions, are able to solve environmental problems and have a financial basis for solving these problems. It's not just talking about what needs to be improved, it's a mechanism that allows communities to solve environmental problems. I'm talking to the voters right now, and I want the voters to understand the difference in the approach of the so-called Party of Regions and Opposition. The position of Julius Volodymyrna Timoshenko, who introduced a draft budget code that allowed each city, in a formula, to distribute budget to each village. Dear voters, look at the difference: when Timoshenko did not try to centralize resources, she understood that it was necessary to strengthen local communities, and to strengthen these communities is to provide a financial basis for their work. Today, everything is completely the other way around. A party of regions, it centralizes the entire resource at Kiev level, and then, in terms of political preferences or maybe more favourable discounts, it distributes these costs. Dear friends, this is not a party of regions, but a party of one region is probably called "Migria". Dear friends, I want to go back to the one that was coming out to all people when the Party of Regions centralized taxes, road taxes, transportation profits. There's every citizen who's on the road, and it's absolutely clear that there's some food coming from stealing this money, and the communities don't get anything. Friends, regions have reached such a level that they have even centralized and taken waste disposal issues to local communities. They're still trying to build some kind of food here, without strengthening the region, without giving them authority, or even garbage trying to make money, or even getting some resources out of the trash. I'm asking the voters to clearly distinguish between the position of the Fatherland party, Timoshenko, who is illegally imprisoned and this so-called party. And I'd like everyone to support Irina Sekh's bill. Thank you.
ParlaMint-UA_2013-05-22-m0.u76	People's MP Agafonov, Vitaly Klicka Faction.
ParlaMint-UA_2013-05-22-m0.u77	Please pass the word to Oksani Prodan.
ParlaMint-UA_2013-05-22-m0.u78	Please, the word Oksani Sold. People's MP, Oxana Prodan, Vitalia Klitschka faction.
ParlaMint-UA_2013-05-22-m0.u79	Thank you very much. Ladies and gentlemen, I would like to draw our attention to the fact that this bill does not propose to increase revenue, as, in principle, those who oppose this bill say. This bill is intended to leave the size of last year's environmental tax deduction to local budgets in the past year. The question is that today the flocks of commitments taken by the State by handing over their powers to the local authorities, delegating their powers, are not being completely enforced by the State today. And so, not only did the questions of medicine, not only the issue of education, but also the question of proper maintenance of roads, streets, and the generally populated areas of our cities lie on the heads, hands, and responsibilities of local councils. So, local self-governance doesn't have the ability to ensure proper order in garbage dumps, we have huge problems with waste disposal. Moreover, Vital Call's strike party was forced across Ukraine to start work on battery collection, and we do it systematically, constantly to preserve an environmental situation that the state does not list today, even though the authority of its local governments has passed on. That is why we believe that this bill needs to be supported and that the chairman should be put to the vote not only in the first reading of this bill but also in the general vote. Because it is now up to the local authorities to be able and to have funding to ensure the normal environmental status of cities and villages and to ensure all the powers that the state has placed on the local authorities today. Thank you.
ParlaMint-UA_2013-05-22-m0.u80	National deputy of Matvienkov, faction of the Party of the Regions.
ParlaMint-UA_2013-05-22-m0.u81	Matvienkov, 57th District, Mariupol. Respected colleagues, environmental issues, indeed, are among the most serious issues that concern virtually everyone today. And today we must note that almost this environmental tax has lost its purpose. To some extent, unfortunately, he has already become a reserve fund. Regrettably, the means that are being channelled to the ground -- what is being proposed here today -- are also not being used very effectively. Take the results of the Court of Auditors, which has carried out repeated checks; see how the purchase of medical equipment has been made for medical establishments on the ground. Unfortunately, the principle has been in force today, and it has been in force for no more than a year: the more we smoke, the more we pay; the more we pay, the more benefits to those who share this money. That is why this principle, unfortunately, has not been interrupted until today. And everything that is being proposed so far is not going to solve the problem. For example, the same city of Callus, the city of Razdol, the same city of Mariupol. In the city of Mariupole, emissions in the last year amounted to 300,000 tons from stationary sources. This does not solve the problem today. Those who are fighting today about what we're going to do with this law -- and we're going to solve all the problems -- you're going to remember what you did about five years ago: you've increased the price by 15 times for emissions from stationary sources. What did that give you? This has led to a situation in which industrial enterprises have not been able to engage in investment projects at all. They cannot deal with environmental issues today. There is therefore a situation in which 164 million of the 600 million gathered in Ukraine are gathered in the Donetsk region. And how many of these funds collected in the Donetsk region were specifically aimed at reducing emissions from industrial enterprises? To date, unfortunately, no one will answer that question. However, questionable projects, questionable programs for the purchase of equipment are available. Therefore, this is not the solution to the problem. We have drafted Bill 2807, which shows that we need to take a concrete and fundamental step; to channel this money to reduce emissions sources, to modernize industrial enterprises, to implement investment programmes. Regrettably, there is some reason why the Committee is taking a hard turn from the consideration of the bill, and a week later it is trying to withdraw it and does not wish to move on to a specific issue. Therefore, we call and propose, let us, in the end, move from emotion to a specific solution. Law 2807 specifically addresses and seeks a solution to this problem. Thank you.
ParlaMint-UA_2013-05-22-m0.u82	Please enroll the national deputies for the performance. National Deputy Drohov, faction of the Ukrainian Company.
ParlaMint-UA_2013-05-22-m0.u83	Please pass the word to Spira Irina.
ParlaMint-UA_2013-05-22-m0.u84	Hand over the word to the People's Deputy Spirini, the Company of Ukraine.
ParlaMint-UA_2013-05-22-m0.u85	Spirina Irina, Communist Party of Ukraine. First of all, we support this bill because the environmental situation in Ukraine is catastrophic. As a doctor, I can bring in a clear classification of allergic diseases and statistics today. 60 per cent of children today suffer from allergic diseases of various etiology, and 40 per cent of the adult population. We must follow this situation with clarity and say that environmental efforts — this bill — must be supported because, since 2010, the number of allergies has increased by 2 per cent, and this is a huge cost of health. Allergic diseases increased by 10 per cent from 2010 to 2013. Today it's a huge percentage. And we support the bill and say that we need to pay more attention and more money. [[B in m in s a l in]] You're gonna knock.
ParlaMint-UA_2013-05-22-m0.u86	People's Deputy Mohnik, Freedom faction.
ParlaMint-UA_2013-05-22-m0.u87	Please pass the word to Mikhalchino.
ParlaMint-UA_2013-05-22-m0.u88	Pass the word to Mikhalchino.
ParlaMint-UA_2013-05-22-m0.u89	Yuri Mikhalchisin, the All-Ukrainian Freedom Union. Dear colleagues! I would also like to point out that, as of today, we have no legal basis for determining the principles of the allocation of funds between enterprises that implement investment projects and the lack of a mechanism for transferring funds from the State Budget Special Fund to specific enterprises, including private property, until then, the actual drafting of the Budget Code generates corruption. I want to ask you this and it's not rhetorical at all. If the corresponding changes to the Budget Code were adopted in December 2010 and the new Tax Code was adopted in 2011, what is the two-and-a-half-year activity of our beautiful Ministry of Finance and the equally beautiful Ministry of Environmental Protection? What, two and a half years from now, is it difficult for them to make appropriate decisions?Oh, my God! Since there is no appropriate legal framework, in 2013, I would stress that there is a serious risk that all the costs that will come from the environmental tax, which is one billion dollars and three hundred million dollars, will risk obtaining enterprises whose owners will, under the unfortunate circumstances, have a fault that coincides with the legal registration of enterprises that belong to MPs who are today in the parliamentary majority. So what I'd like to say is that this bill that we're discussing right now has not just a social, not just an ecological and humanitarian, but an anti-corruption nature. Because it eliminates the legal basis for the manual distribution of funds and transfers them to the loyal entrepreneurs who finance today’s regime. And in general, there's nothing strange about it. If we don't have government programs, what can be demanded of the Cabinet of Ministers, which in 2.5 years has not been able to develop what is not two technical decrees, and it can't even declare to the Ukrainians who choose and finance it the priorities of their economic and economic activities. So I'd like to emphasize, dear colleagues. That this state of law-based affairs is simply a reflection of the general governance chaos, the corruption in which the current government is in power. And what we really need now is to talk about the need to adopt such technical changes, which underlines that this government has no or no prospects for normal, efficient work, including in the field of environmental regulation. So please support Irina Sech's bill. Thank you.
ParlaMint-UA_2013-05-22-m0.u90	National deputy Zac, faction of the Party of the Regions.
ParlaMint-UA_2013-05-22-m0.u91	Please give Jaroslav the word to the dry one.
ParlaMint-UA_2013-05-22-m0.u92	Please give the floor to the People's Deputy Sukh.
ParlaMint-UA_2013-05-22-m0.u93	Dear colleagues, Bill No. 2126, I have already mentioned this, has special vital importance for highly overcrowded regions such as Zaporozhye, Donetsk, Lugansk, Dnipropetrovsk, and some other regions that today cannot boast about environmental health. In this session room, the need for a redistribution of the environmental tax for the benefit of local self - government agencies has been repeated. Why? Because it is they who are responsible for all the consequences of environmental distress, for the terrible diagnosis of our children in these areas: The Zaporozhye, Donetsk and the like. We, the Ukrainian national deputies, by appealing to local authorities, are well aware that they do not have funds. That's the first problem. The second problem that Sergey Matvienkov said. And the problem of metallurgical enterprises, and the problem of increasing fixed taxes on discards, is that there is also no money left for these companies. That's why this bill, if. I doubt he'll be voted out, seeing that there's a lot of free seats in the hall. But even what he's introduced and we're talking about, he's saying that there's a problem. And we need to support the proposal that 30 percent of the environmental community (now 65) and 70 percent of local budgets should be included in the government budget. But what's troubling and what's the government's warning about? That the special fund of the state budget would be reduced. Colleagues, given the extremely negative trend in trying to centralize all taxes and all payments, including social taxes to insurance, I think we should support this bill. And another circumstance. Why should we expect good will from Kiev, why can we not assume responsibility for local self - government in solving extremely complex and painful environmental problems? Why is it that Kiev should make decisions to modernize an industrial enterprise? I want to tell you that we don't have a report so far on the effectiveness of using a special fund for environmental improvement in Ukraine, because we don't even know where those billions have gone, gone and where they're going. I propose and call on the Ukrainian people's deputies, majorists who represent ecologically catastrophic, technologically overloaded regions, to support this bill in the first reading. I did not by chance ask the author whether there is a possibility of a second reading making it more complex and one that would answer all the questions that concern me today, I hope, and the government, and us, the national deputies of Ukraine. I suggest we support it as a basis for the first reading.
ParlaMint-UA_2013-05-22-m0.u94	Pavlovsky National Deputy, Fatherland faction.
ParlaMint-UA_2013-05-22-m0.u95	Good afternoon. Andrey Pavlovsky, "Fatherland" faction. Honourable compatriots, a draft law introduced by the head of the Ecological Committee, Irina Sekh, are invited to amend the Budget Code on Environmental Tax Accounting. In particular, it is suggested that 70 percent of the environmental tax should be included in the local budget special fund instead of the 35 percent that is currently taking place. This bill is really designed to solve environmental problems in the same areas and to support local self - government. And that's why he supports the regions, he has to vote for the Party of Regions, which is called that, and in fact he's doing everything for centralization, bureaucracy, and in order to take out all the financial resources from the regions, from the places downtown to Kiev, where the border barina, his family hand-in-hand will distribute to whom they want to give, to whom they don't want to give, won't give. At the same time, we have a terrible environmental situation, in the same Mariupoli of the Donetsk region. The previous reporter described the difficult situation in Zaporozhye. And so we have to do everything we can to at least start restoring self-government, at least from an environmental tax, so that it stays in place. I would suggest that all 100 percent remain in place. But such a compromise as 70, as Irina Sech suggested, as supported by her completely ecological and fiscal committee, it can be supported. And by the way, I'd like to draw your attention and remind you, as the previous reporters said, that Julia Tymoshenko was introducing to this a new budget code, which was provided not in manual mode, but in terms of the distribution of funds between the center and the local communities. Where local self - government was expected to cost 80 dollars of all congregation taxes, and 20 would go to the center. Where is it? A party of regions all, almost all hundred percent, have already taken away. And this is the humiliation and destruction of local communities, the dispossession of local communities in areas of local self-government. And so the "Fatherland" party will vote in favour of this bill, because this is the first step towards restoring local self-government. And the Party of the Regions would like to change from the Party of the Regions to the Party of Centralization, Hammatry and Corruption.
ParlaMint-UA_2013-05-22-m0.u96	National MP Dzardanov, faction of the Ukrainian Company.
ParlaMint-UA_2013-05-22-m0.u97	There are many problems in the area of Nikolaiev, but I give the floor to Oksana Kaletnik.
ParlaMint-UA_2013-05-22-m0.u98	Hand over the word to the National Deputy Kaletnik, faction of the Ukrainian Company.
ParlaMint-UA_2013-05-22-m0.u99	Dear colleagues, the proposal is really timely and is in line with the policy of decentralization, prompts the adoption of a responsible approach in no place to increase local self - government. By the way, really, it's through effective communities that we can change and achieve different solutions in places. I want to do an example. I'm a member of the 16th Majority District. The crowd is trying to figure out the cost of solving the environmental issue of the clean-up infrastructure project. Year after year, he can't find these funds. Crowds have already gone out to look for land in foreign lands. How faithless people are! So, indeed, this law is timely. There were indeed many objections from the government to this law at the Committee on Budgets. But the government still has no financial arrangements for targeted environmental modernization projects, which precludes the efficient use of environmental taxes by enterprises. By the way, the Ministry of Finance sent a letter to the budget committee informing him that Mr. Merkovsky would accompany him during his consideration of the bill in the Supreme Council. But unfortunately, today neither Merkowski nor the government is paying much attention to strengthening an effective dialogue between parliament and executive power, unfortunately. But I hope that this law is really going to give places, that it will really give more opportunities in places, that it will be wise for communities to invest and be used to solve ecologically painful problems. So our faction will support this law in the first reading. Thank you.
ParlaMint-UA_2013-05-22-m0.u100	National MP Dzardanov, faction of the Ukrainian Company.
ParlaMint-UA_2013-05-22-m0.u101	I stress that the Nikolai region is an area of environmental danger. First of all, it's a clay plant and a clay mill, it's an atomic power plant and it's not working the first block, it's environmental problems in rural areas. But here we have to figure it out, because sometimes the village councils are unable to use that money. Because they are purely specific only to the environment. The question should therefore be raised as to how environmental money could be used on the ground. Thank you.
ParlaMint-UA_2013-05-22-m0.u102	People's Deputy Kirilenko, Fatherland.
ParlaMint-UA_2013-05-22-m0.u103	I give the word to Paul.
ParlaMint-UA_2013-05-22-m0.u104	Pavlovsky, Pavlovsky People's Dept., faction of Fatherland.
ParlaMint-UA_2013-05-22-m0.u105	Andrew Pavlovsky. Once again, I urge the people's deputies to support this urgent current bill. Much has been said about him, and without politics he is really needed because he needs to support self-government so that local communities can solve their environmental problems, which are terrible, all the more so that we can extract solar gas. And this question is ambiguous, it's unclear how this is going to affect the environment, the quality of the water. So now we have to accumulate funds to solve economic problems. Therefore, I propose that the bill be supported and that 70 percent of the environmental tax collection should be left in place to address these important issues. I would like to continue to give the floor to Mr. Blackwolf, the National MP.
ParlaMint-UA_2013-05-22-m0.u106	Thank you. National deputy Sech Irina Igorovna has a desire to speak the closing word? Yes, you do. Turn on the Sech microphone.
ParlaMint-UA_2013-05-22-m0.u107	Dear Society, if we do not solve this very important problem today, the local environmental funds will simply be empty. This will inevitably exacerbate the environmental and social situation in various regions of Ukraine. This problem is extremely relevant today in industrial areas: Get it, Dnipropetrovsky, Bloody Rose. I address and urge the MPs to reject all political points and to support an extremely important bill for the territory. Thank you.
ParlaMint-UA_2013-05-22-m0.u108	The Coroner, head of the Committee on Budget Affairs, Mr. Geller Euggen Borisovich, would like to make a closing statement? It doesn't. Ladies and gentlemen, let's move on to the decision-making process. I'm voting on the draft Act amending the Ukrainian budget code for environmental taxation, registration number 2126, to be adopted as a basis. Please vote. [[11:33:17]] For 177 The decision is not taken. Factions: Region Party 18, Parentage Party, 65, Vitalia Klicka, 27, Freedom, 31, Ukraine, 27, non-fractional, 9. A draft Act amending some Ukrainian legislation on the protection of animal and plant life (Registration No. 2503) is being introduced. I'm making a proposal for a reduced procedure. People's deputies, please vote. [[11:34:12]] For 139 The decision is not taken. The rapporteur is Ukraine's national deputy, Kotelek Lydia Leonidivna.
ParlaMint-UA_2013-05-22-m0.u109	Lydia Kotelak, 123rd constituency, Fatherland faction. Honorable national deputies, Honourable Volodymira Vasilovich, the purpose of the bill is to strengthen the protection of the animal and plant world. The tasks are to increase the protection of species of animals and plants that are listed in the Red Book of Ukraine, species of animals and plants that are not included in the Red Book of Ukraine, to improve the protection of areas of the natural reserve fund, to increase the fight against poaching The bill amends the following laws of Ukraine: the Red Book of Ukraine, the Animal World, the Protection of Animals from Cruel Behavior, the Protection of the Environment, the Plant World, the Natural Order Fund of Ukraine, the Code of Administrative Violations. Ukraine’s Red Book law proposes to supplement article 19, which prohibits the direct destruction of objects of the Red Book of Ukraine. According to article 44 of the Animal World Act, it is proposed that, by analogy with the Ukrainian Plant World Act, changes that allow the Supreme Council of the Autonomous Republic of Crimea, appropriate district, Kiev, and Sevastopol City Councils to approve lists of rare species of animals that are subject to special protection in these areas. At present, these self-governance bodies have the right to approve such lists of rare plants, but to approve the lists of animals, for some reason they have no such right. Article 63 of this Law proposes to supplement the Office of the Ministers of Ukraine to approve the amount of compensation for illegal extraction, destruction, or damage to species of animals not listed in the Red Book of Ukraine or the list of hunting animals. According to article 40 of the Law on Plants, Ukraine proposes to make additions to the Cabinet of Ministers of Ukraine by analogy with red-tailed plants, to approve the amount of compensation for illegal harvesting, destruction or damage to species of plants listed in a list of species that are subject to special protection in the Autonomous Republic of Crimea, areas, cities of Kiev and Sevastopol. The Ukrainian Natural Reserve Act proposes to make changes that clarify the purpose of creating natural reserves that expand the ability to function in nature's monuments. The proposed amendments to article 255 of the Ukrainian Code on Administrative Offences, which proposes to give additional powers to compile protocols for various types of violations of environmental law to public environmental inspectors. Among such administrative violations of the production and disposal of prohibited tools for the acquisition of animal or plant objects, the violation of the order of purchase or disposal of animal or plant objects, the rules for keeping wild animals in captivity or in half - free conditions, the violation of the requirements for the protection of species of animals and plants in the Red Book of Ukraine, the violation of the rules for the protection and use of areas and objects of the natural and natural resources, and the violation of the rules for the use of the animal world. In view of the adoption in 2010 of additions to the Animal World Act, which prohibits the storage of prohibited fishing gears, it is proposed that article 85-1 of the Code should be amended accordingly, which prohibits the storage of prohibited fishing gears. Thus, the adoption of this law will contribute to the introduction of Ukrainian legislation in accordance with the International Agreement on the Conservation of Afro-Eurasian Waterbirds, the 1979 Convention on the Protection of Wild Flora and Fauna and the Natural Environments of Their Existence in Europe, and the Directive of the Council of European Cooperatives of 02.04.1979 on the Conservation of Wild Animals. birds, the strengthening of the protection of species of animals and plants in the Red Book of Ukraine, the strengthening of the protection of areas and natural resources, the strengthening of the fight against poaching. Dear colleagues! Today, anyone who wanted to have a chance to learn about the species of poachers, although it is not excluded that some of the deputies are educated hunters and in practice know how these tools work for animal abuse, since a large number of draft laws are being submitted to Parliament aimed at allowing them to hunt in protected areas and to use similar instruments. Yes, so far in the Committee on Environmental Policy there have been numerous appeals from representatives of the public about the inadmissibility of adopting a bill allowing hunting in protected areas, amending the Ukrainian Law on the Ukrainian Natural and Command Fund. Thus, today the adoption of amendments to Ukraine’s laws on the protection of animal and plant life is extremely relevant. Ukrainian legislation must meet the requirements of international treaties and conventions, and the draft law is called upon to ensure this. That's why I'm asking you to support him. Thank you for your attention.
ParlaMint-UA_2013-05-22-m0.u110	Dear National Deputies! Will there be questions for the reporter? None. Have a seat, please. The committee is Secretary of the Committee on Environmental Policy, Environmental Management and the Elimination of the Effects of the Chernobyl disaster Balický Evgen Vitaliyovich. Communicator, please.
ParlaMint-UA_2013-05-22-m0.u111	Dear Vladimir Vasilovich! National deputies of Ukraine! Deputies! I would like to present to you the draft Act amending some of the Ukrainian legislation on the protection of animal and plant life, number 2503 of March 7, 2013. The bill is designed to remedy the numerous shortcomings that are now in various laws for the protection of the plant and animal world that have been introduced into the Red Book. For example, Ukraine’s current Red Book Law prohibits only prey or a congregation in the Red Book of Plants and Animals, but it does not prohibit their destruction, such as by means of toxic chemicals. At present, the issue of the approval of compensation for damage caused to animals not included in the Red Book or in the list of hunting animals is not resolved. The number of such animals in Ukraine is more than 42 thousand. However, valid legislation does not determine what kind of authority these fees should be approved. The bill proposed that taxis be approved by the Cabinet of Ministers of Ukraine. An effective fight against the socio-dangerous phenomenon of poaching is a very important problem. At present, according to official data alone, 150,000 poaching cases are reported annually in Ukraine. Although the actual figure is probably too low. It's probably 80 times bigger. The bill proposes a whole set of measures to strengthen the fight against poaching. To give MPs and all those who want to know the poachers' fishing tools that we want to ban, I and the co-authors of this bill, together with civil environmental citizens, have arranged on the 3rd floor of the Supreme Council an exhibition of banned poaching tools. Everyone can visit her during the break. The bill also prohibits such harsh methods of extracting wild animals, which are used from gas, smoke, electricity, and hunting wild animals that have been subjected to severe weather conditions, such as snowfall, fires, floods, avalanches, and so forth. According to the Berne Convention ratified by Ukraine, the bill introduces into the Animal World Act a new article concerning the regulation of the sale of animal products. The Ministry of Environment and Natural Resources fully supported the bill. Our committee on environmental policy, environmental management and the elimination of the consequences of the Chernobyl disaster is proposing a bill to amend some of Ukraine's legislation on animal and plant protection under number 2503 to be adopted as a basis. Thank you.
ParlaMint-UA_2013-05-22-m0.u112	I'm asking questions as to what the co-rapporteur is? No questions? Please sign up for factions. Freedom Union, National Deputy Mohnik, please.
ParlaMint-UA_2013-05-22-m0.u113	Please pass the word to Andrew Tsagnibok.
ParlaMint-UA_2013-05-22-m0.u114	Please hand it over to Andrey Pullibok.
ParlaMint-UA_2013-05-22-m0.u115	Andrew Tajnibok, All-Ukrainian Freedom Union, 125 constituency. Dear Society, this law has not only been discussed among MPs, we have been involved in the work and public officials, and we have collaborated with the state structures that are interested, first and foremost, in strengthening the enforcement of legislation. The plight of our nation today is quite great in terms of poaching. We're happy when we go to Poland or Belarus, and we know that the environmental problem there is solved in a very simple way, where laws are well implemented in keeping with environmental legislation. The poaching that is now in Ukraine has reached a critical limit. It has several components: economic, social. The poachers are like people who simply have to go to law enforcement to feed their families, and so are poachers who go about their business of illegally exploiting natural living resources. Well, the worst part is they're poachers who are called poachers who just want to shoot or catch a fish or a beast out of personal preference. The law reinforces responsibility for damaging the natural environment and we believe that the adoption of this law will allow for the normalization of the situation in legislation and still try to restore the environmental problems. The All-Ukrainian "Freedom" union will support this law. Thank you.
ParlaMint-UA_2013-05-22-m0.u116	The Vitalia Klitschka faction, the people's deputy, Rosenko. Please.
ParlaMint-UA_2013-05-22-m0.u117	Paul Rosenco, Vitaly Caller's Faction. I want to say that not so many bills have been signed by the Supreme Council of Ukraine, which are signed by the People's Deputies of all factions. And that's why the strike faction today is looking forward to a completely effective vote for this bill in all its composition in the Supreme Council of Ukraine, because it's really a very useful bill and it's absolutely necessary. Regrettably, today’s environmental legislation has certain loopholes that allow people who are illegally fishing, or more simply poachers, sometimes even to avoid liability, even by illegally producing these animals or by illegally collecting them, to avoid punishment under the current legislation. That is why this bill seeks to harmonize the standards of effective environmental legislation. And the second fundamental point I'd like to highlight is public participation in protection and in helping environmental inspectors. This is the introduction of so-called public environmental inspectors. The Cabinet has already granted such permission in 2012 to public inspectors to draw up or draw up protocols on administrative responsibility for infringements of the rules of fishing. And this practice is positive. And this is a practice that needs to be promoted. It's the public, it's the public inspectors who can sometimes become the alternative, unfortunately, to the corruption that we have in our monitoring bodies. First of all, in the Ribinspection and in the Environmental Protection Inspectorate. So it is absolutely right and justified to involve public organizations to monitor environmental protection. That is why we grant the right to lay down protocols for the sale of prohibited tools, for the violation of the rules on the purchase or sale of animal or plant objects. Breaking the requirements for the protection of species of animals and plants is the right decision. Therefore, the strike faction unanimously supports the bill on changes to environmental legislation and calls on all national MPs to vote unanimously in favour of the bill. Thank you.
ParlaMint-UA_2013-05-22-m0.u118	The Fatherland faction, National Deputy Bondarenko. Talk to me.
ParlaMint-UA_2013-05-22-m0.u119	Turn it on.
ParlaMint-UA_2013-05-22-m0.u120	It's on.
ParlaMint-UA_2013-05-22-m0.u121	Vladimir Bondarenko, united opposition to the Fatherland. Often, when we talk about such a factor in the natural environment as animals, plants, we do not think about whether we are doing everything to keep them as long as possible on this earth. Because tens of species of animals and dozens and hundreds of species of plants are lost each year. I mean, no one, for example, thought that the use of granular minerals had led to the destruction of such a highly distributed species of birds in Ukraine as hens. There used to be brown jackets, red jackets, hats, today they're gone. They think it's their grain that's scattered, they eat that mineral fertilizer and they die right here. The absence of scyths that were once in the fields is also their feeding base destroyed. I was especially interested in this question, and the units remained these little taboos, just in the names of Ukrainian villages, villages, and rivers. Theteres in Ukraine will stay a little bit there in Polissa, but they are also destroyed because today's methods of hunting them are beastly, incredibly, I would say, effective for humans and very scary for animals and birds. I want to say that no one is thinking about what technology we use in the fields, because the whole world is using technology that is environmentally protected. Never does a combine come upon a bird, for it gives signals that that bird will run 10 kilometers from where the combine works. And we often have mowers, especially grass mowers, especially at the time when birds nest, become bloodstains from the same cessareans ’ activities and so forth. I want to say that all of this requires a very serious reform of our legislation, because what surrounds us is us, part of us, our health, our environment, our health, the more so, our children. I don't want the burned-out land to stay here. Once upon a time, Mikola Josephovich Klutowich, an outstanding historian, and at the same time a prominent ecologist in the 1960s wrote about the drying up of Finnish pains that struck the fauna and flora of the area and ecologically in general. That's why this law is absolutely necessary. He needs to be worked out, looking for new aspects, especially in the area of child rearing, involving children in the youthful former work that was, it was right for them not only to throw them under dogs or under animals, but also to think that they were a living creature, just like himself, that boy or girl. So let's support this law, work on it, and make it a really good Ukrainian law. Thank you.
ParlaMint-UA_2013-05-22-m0.u122	Yes, I'm asking for a faction of the regions. Party of regions, Chechetov.
ParlaMint-UA_2013-05-22-m0.u123	Ladies and gentlemen of the people! Dear Vladimir Vasilevich! I'm speaking to the crickets personally, we're talking about Taras Shevchenko today, you're spiritually poor, you're illiterate and you're illiterate. Taras Shevchenko wrote in two languages: Russian and Ukrainian. More than half as a wise and wise man wrote in Russian, and he became a great poet, world famous for what he wrote in two languages. I recommend that you read the great Cobzar without coins, both in Russian and in Ukrainian, lift up your spiritual culture, become literate, tactical, cultural deputies. What about the bill? The bill is normal, it needs to be considered, it needs to be discussed, it needs to be refined. We suggest that he be sent for further work, and then we will consider it in a new edition. Read Cobzar without coins, do not show your spiritual poverty, your culture. Taras Shevchenko the Great Cobzar, because he wrote in Russian and Ukrainian. Take an example with him. Stop showing your illiteracy. It's embarrassing. It's a disgrace to you. Thank you.
ParlaMint-UA_2013-05-22-m0.u124	Ladies and gentlemen, the factions have come out. I'm asking the National Deputies to sign up to discuss the matter. People's deputies please sign up. Paul Rosenko, strike faction.
ParlaMint-UA_2013-05-22-m0.u125	Please pass the word to Yuri Saucuk.
ParlaMint-UA_2013-05-22-m0.u126	Pass it on, please.
ParlaMint-UA_2013-05-22-m0.u127	The Vitalia Klitschka faction, Yuri Saucchuk. What colleagues have been talking about is happening all over Ukraine. I live in a picturesque city like Volin, where I can see depravity, poaching depravity, every day. And besides those people who go out to do poaching not only to survive, but now they're allowed to come from abroad to hunt for a medallion: they're interested in horns, they're interested in size, they're interested in weight. And we have to consider that the head of the uterus is broken. Mother’s Headship We have on Volina today, a land bordering Belovieskie Desert, with Belarus, less than 200 bison. This is a shameful practice that is taking place in our country today. We're losing our inheritance. That's why the strike party will vote in favour of this law. Thank you.
ParlaMint-UA_2013-05-22-m0.u128	Please, Party of Regions, Medal of the National MP.
ParlaMint-UA_2013-05-22-m0.u129	109th District, Madyanik People's Deputy. Please give the floor to Glasun's Sergey Mikolaiovich.
ParlaMint-UA_2013-05-22-m0.u130	Please.
ParlaMint-UA_2013-05-22-m0.u131	Thank you. I'd like to draw the attention of all the national MPs to the conclusions of the scientific and scientific department. Indeed, this law is needed, it must be adopted. But let's also take into account the findings of the science department. On the three pages, there's a reference to this bill where the scientific and scientific authorities are proposing that it be sent for further work. I'll name just a few remarks, not all of them. Well, first, an inappropriate addition to article 19 of the Ukrainian Red Book Act, part 4, which prohibits the destruction of Red Book objects. The point is that the article refers to the regulation of the conditions for the special use of Red Book objects, which is possible only in exceptions and in cases of scientific and selective purposes on the basis of the permission of Nature. The relationship between the destruction of the corresponding objects is regulated by other provisions of this law. It is also impossible to accept that the order and extent of damage caused by violations of legislation in the field of protection and use, the reproduction of the animal world, should be determined by how proposed by the Cabinet of Ministers of Ukraine, not by the order and size established by legislation, which is established by a valid standard that should be left in the bill. I would also like to draw attention to what is being proposed to change measures for the regulation of individual populations of species by a commission created by the central executive body that ensures the formation of public policy in the field of environmental and natural protection by scientific institutions, i.e. at the level of the State that is not in line with previous positions. I've only mentioned a few comments, of those given by science and science. Of course, a bill is needed, but it would be appropriate to send the authors to work on it, to work on it, and to submit it to the Supreme Council. Thank you.
ParlaMint-UA_2013-05-22-m0.u132	Ladies and gentlemen, I announce a recess of up to 12 hours for 30 minutes, and I invite you to continue after the adjournment of this matter.
ParlaMint-UA_2013-05-22-m0.u133	Invite people's deputies to the National Assembly Hall. And we'll keep working. Ladies and gentlemen, we continue our work. I give the floor to the People's Deputy of Fatherland, Kupreyczyk. Huh? Please, Arsenius Petrovich Yacenuk, please.
ParlaMint-UA_2013-05-22-m0.u134	Mr. Chairman, Members of Parliament, allow me to speak now, not on the text of the bill, but on what has just taken place in the Cabinet of Ministers of Ukraine. Ukrainian journalists who have asked the head of the Ukrainian government to investigate the beating of journalists on May 18th to ensure that the government does not beat journalists in Ukraine, that they do not beat people in Ukraine, and that they protect the rights and freedoms of everyone and every citizen in Ukraine. After addressing Prime Minister Mikolia Azarov for his contempt for the Ukrainian people and for Ukrainian journalism, he committed himself to presenting 10 journalists to him as Prime Minister of Ukraine with a legal, constitutional requirement. What a disgrace to the Prime Minister and to such power! [[Applause]] Mr. Head, I'm addressing you and I'm asking you, first of all, to consider my speech a question of the MPs. Second, please dial Prime Minister of Ukraine. His actions, his position destroys Ukraine’s reputation primarily in the European arena. First the banduks beat journalists, then the police cover it up, and then the Prime Minister exposes the journalistic environment that demands truth, legality and justice. I appeal to you, Mr. Chairman, to take steps not to do so again. As for the Prime Minister’s activities, I would like to point out separately. We'll have a meeting tomorrow, and more specifically, we'll have a commission of inquiry on the issue of beatings. And now, as an opposition, we are calling this commission to a meeting of the Ukrainian Prime Minister's Commission with explanations, and the Attorney-General must intervene immediately in order to instruct the Prime Minister of Ukraine, Mikola Azarov, to follow the law and respect people and journalists. Thank you.
ParlaMint-UA_2013-05-22-m0.u135	Thank you. The Fatherland faction, Shulga People's Deputy.
ParlaMint-UA_2013-05-22-m0.u136	Vladimir Shulga. Please pass the word to Vladimir Yavorowski.
ParlaMint-UA_2013-05-22-m0.u137	Please. Deputy Troastina, Mr. Yavorowski.
ParlaMint-UA_2013-05-22-m0.u138	Who said I didn't? Yes! Vladimir Yavorowski, "Fathership", Kyiv, Troyshina, "Fathership" of Yulia Timoshenko. Dear voters! Unlike the representative of the region who spoke and said that this law needed to be redrafted, that it needed to be reworked, and so on, I am convinced that Mikola Tomenko, the author of this bill, prepared a very mature, very professional and all-inclusive, I would say, law. It amends about six or seven other conservation and conservation laws. The thing is, we've got hunting in Ukraine, you know, stopped. came back to that. To the king's, I'd say, scale. Please tell me, how much does one hunter need? Does anyone know? I don't know, the Drylands, the Crimea, the steppes. How many people can shoot and how long does it take to finally calm down? It's really very dangerous. It's becoming fashionable. When the President himself cultivates hunting today, the whole family around him quickly buys guns and so forth. I just want to remind you of how I went into another Kushnarow world. I want to mention from this rostrum, on the occasion of this law, the fine officer of the militia, the true officer, the kingdom of the heavens, the Whisperer. He was such a smart, handsome general who was destroyed on a hunting trip, I don't think they accidentally destroyed him. I also like Tomenka's bill, so to speak, in all spheres of life. For example, he makes it very clear that even in schools it is necessary to pass and ban, to ban the shooting of even painted animals in the tracks. It's very important, by the way. Because it's brought up from childhood, it raises the same person, the same person. I am convinced that we Ukrainians, for some reason today, have completely forgotten that we have yet to live on this earth. The same Ukrainians, perhaps even far better Ukrainians than we are with you. And they need to leave something behind. Because I am convinced that this bill is not simply acceptable, it must be accepted! Because he may, even though he will stop the vacchanal today, the extermination of all the living things we have in Ukraine today. This is going to be a test. Who's going to vote for this bill?
ParlaMint-UA_2013-05-22-m0.u139	The Vitalia Klitschka faction, Palamarczuk, please.
ParlaMint-UA_2013-05-22-m0.u140	Please pass the word to Irina Heratchenko.
ParlaMint-UA_2013-05-22-m0.u141	Please, Irina Heratchenka.
ParlaMint-UA_2013-05-22-m0.u142	The strike faction, Irina Heratchenko. Dear colleagues! I want to support our colleague Arsenius Petrovich Yatsenuk and draw your attention to what has happened today. When Ukrainian journalists demonstrate journalistic corporate solidarity for the shameful beating of our colleague, the parliamentary journalist Olga Snisarczuk. And just as in any civilized country, they expressed their protest to the leader of the ruling anti-fascist party of regions that sent these fighters away, demanding that they apologize to the journalists. They are required to do their utmost to ensure that the profession is safe in Ukraine and expelled from the Cabinet of Ministers. Dear colleagues, we ask you to address the President of Ukraine, this is an unprecedented case. For five days, the president is silent about the violation of journalistic rights. This is a unique case where, indeed, this fact today is at a disadvantage in Ukraine’s European integration. Today, all officials of the European Commission have responded to the fact that journalists are again being beaten in Ukraine. Where's our president? Can we find out if he knows what's going on in the country? Can we find out if he can react to the beatings of journalists here, and this is what the fighters hired by the Party of the Regions do? Can he direct the Security Service, the Prosecutor and the Minister of Internal Affairs to respond? Will we listen to statements made by European Commission commissioners protecting Ukrainian journalists? We want to say that this is an unacceptable situation when the President of Ukraine, even his spokesman, even the head of the administration, did not respond to such a disgrace. And so we demand that the Prime Minister of Ukraine apologize for his actions and for the actions of the Party of Regions in front of Ukrainian journalists. And, indeed, he will be the first person that the future of the TSC, which will be voted on tomorrow in this Council, will be invited to consider this disgrace in the Supreme Hall of Ukraine. Journalists, please excuse the society that makes your profession dangerous again today, and this has happened during this regime. Thank you for your attention.
ParlaMint-UA_2013-05-22-m0.u143	Ladies and gentlemen, when we consider this issue from the Freedom faction, no one has spoken, I give my word, and I will give it to you. Please, National Deputy Tagnibok. And we'll make decisions.
ParlaMint-UA_2013-05-22-m0.u144	Thank you. Oleg Tuggnibok, faction of the All-Ukrainian Freedom Union. Dear fellow MPs, regarding the substance of this bill that we are considering, our faction will definitely support it and I ask the House to vote positively in general, in the second reading, in the future, of course, as a whole. But I would also like to join these political statements that have just been made by colleagues from Homeland and Strike. Dear Society, it is absolutely unacceptable that today Prime Minister Azarov's conduct, who, at a government meeting, allowed himself brutally and insolently not only to expel journalists from this meeting, but also to authorize them to withdraw their credentials so that they would not be able to fulfil their journalistic obligations. You know, unfortunately, our nation is gradually becoming not only a police state, but also a state of full usurpation of power and dictatorship. And instead of allowing the party of regions today for this unprecedented case of 18 numbers to burn their heads off and apologize to journalists and Ukrainian society, and try to settle this conflict, the Prime Minister is allowing himself similar things. We believe that the Attorney General should consider the matter. We believe that a criminal case against Prime Minister Azarov must be opened up about yoga trying to deprive journalists of their professional responsibilities. On the one hand, the Party of the Regions tells the lilies that they want to go to Europe without some mythical fascism that is certainly not in Ukraine. On the other hand, they are grossly violating all European rules and values. What kind of Europe do they want to go to? That's why I'm here. We have to stop this policy of double standards. Finally, the Attorney General’s Office must respond to the insolence and bravado of officials. And against Prime Minister Azarov there should be a clear open criminal conduct regarding the obstruction of journalistic activity. Glory to Ukraine!
ParlaMint-UA_2013-05-22-m0.u145	Please, allow me to speak to Hanna Herman, National Deputy.
ParlaMint-UA_2013-05-22-m0.u146	Ladies and gentlemen, I would like to thank the representatives of the strike party, the strike faction, for apologizing to the journalists for the provocation that was given by the opposition when they held their rally. It's wrong to distract yourself from failing your stock by beating up journalists. Therefore, we will demand that the customers of this provocation be found. And we will demand that responsibility be brought not only to the performers but also to the customers of this provocation. And we're also going to demand that those leaders who order mass shares answer to society for order in these stocks. If they are taking to protest, they must keep order, as the Party of Regions has kept order in their speeches. And thank you again for hitting us for admitting their guilt and apologizing to journalists. For our part, we will ask and demand an objective, impartial investigation. And we will never allow journalists to be punished in this country. Thank you.
ParlaMint-UA_2013-05-22-m0.u147	All right, we're done here. I'm asking the people's deputies to prepare for the vote. I am voting on the draft Act (Registration No. 2503) amending some Ukrainian legislation on animal and plant protection for adoption. People's deputies please identify themselves. [[12:44:41]] For-160. Against – 1, held – 27, did not vote – 168. The decision is not taken. Please, by the factions. Ladies and gentlemen, I ask you a question. Most of the deputies were not on the subject. Let us consider the questions. I'm asking that we don't turn off the microphones, let's talk about questions, let's talk about them, let's talk about them. A draft Act (No. 2149) amending the Ukrainian Administrative Services Act (to eliminate corruption in the provision of administrative services) is being introduced. Are we going to be looking at the full program? [[B in m in s a l in]] I'll bet you a reduced vote, you bet. Please vote. [[12:46:09]] For 114 Against 70, held-6, not a 167 vote. The decision is not taken. I give the floor to the National Deputy of Ukraine, Oksani Petrovni Sold. And then from the committee. Please.
ParlaMint-UA_2013-05-22-m0.u148	Dear Vladimir Vasilovich! Dear colleagues! The bill (No. 2149) amending the Ukrainian Law on Administrative Services was developed by the members of the Faction of Vitalia Klicka, Natalya Agafonova, Sergey Kapliny, Natalya Novak, Pavel Rosenko, Valentino Nastawajchenko and Taras Kutov. We've drafted this bill to finally provide services to citizens. The bill provides for a change of power. The relationship between power and citizens is changing, between officials and those whom they should serve. After the adoption of the bill, people will not need to collect dozens of aids from one authority in order to give them to other authorities and obtain the services and documents provided by law and the State’s obligation to give them to the people. After you and I support this initiative, both pensioners and passport students, and entrepreneurs are not supposed to collect documents and pay for them once together, and they're just going to apply to the authorities. In this statement, point out what is needed, and the authority will be obliged to issue or do without additional documents what is necessary for a person and which, once again, wishes to pay attention to the legal provision. I would like to address the vast majority of the information that this bill that we are currently considering with you is a continuation of information that this bill, which we are currently considering with you, is a continuation and a requirement for the implementation of the Administrative Services Act. Those of you who have participated in the drafting of the bill on administrative services, those of you who have once collected the documents and the help needed to provide the authorities, you know how difficult it is to do that, and how difficult it is to break through against officials in general, the opposition to that medium chain that actually makes money on corruption. It's because officials aren't ready to change the system, because officials have a corrupt system, that we have negative conclusions from the Expert Office that are not ready to approach the bill systematically. Once again, I would like to draw your attention to the fact that the project provides for the very simple things that were provided for in the program of each of the five parties, each of the five factions that are now represented in Parliament. We are talking about that no Ukrainian citizen should serve the state or serve the authorities. In order for the authorities to fulfill their obligations, only one thing is necessary — a citizen’s statement of action. The main argument of those who oppose this bill is that it is impossible to provide such services, that the State is not ready and the authorities are not ready to implement administrative services in the order in which we offer them. I agree that not everyone is ready, I agree that there is no interconnected procedure and that there is no electronic governance that exists. But I want to tell all of you, and I'm sure you'll agree: if we don't now vote on this bill in the first reading, the authorities will never be ready. Civil service is a principle that exists in all economically developed democratic countries, and it must also be established in Ukraine. I suggest that everyone in this room start working together on a real fight against corruption, fighting those officials who want to engage in corruption. As long as we don't accept Euro-Integration Bills, which provide responsibility for corruption, until you and I, no one else, remove the conditions under which an official can take money, demand money, create problems, there will be corruption until then. And that's what we all know. I want to talk about the drafters. Both I and my colleagues came to Parliament for the first time. Maybe we don't know a lot of procedural things about how to work on the committee in order for the committee to support the bill, but we know exactly that Ukraine will become, in a year's time, two, the sooner, the better for us with you, after all, a truly economically developed country. The Vitaly Call faction is sure that's why we're here. And I'm asking you, every single one of you who's in the room right now, that we don't delay the change in our society and the development of Ukraine's economy for our children. Let's start work today on real development, on real change to what all Ukrainian citizens are looking for. I ask very much, despite the fact that today there is the conclusion of a committee of profiles on the rejection of a bill, all those present in the Chamber of Deputies to support the bill in the first reading, because we predict that citizens will not have to submit documents to the authorities. We don't anticipate extra expenses, we don't anticipate benefits. We foresee a change in the system, the change that we all promised, but there is a concrete solution. Please join in and support the bill in the first reading. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-UA_2013-05-22-m0.u149	Thank you. Oksana Petrovna, we'll ask if you have any questions. Any questions? None. Have a seat, please. There's a question. Please, Goncharova is a national MP.
ParlaMint-UA_2013-05-22-m0.u150	I have a question: when was the adoption of the Administrative Services Act itself, which we are amending today?
ParlaMint-UA_2013-05-22-m0.u151	Thank you very much. Can I answer that?
ParlaMint-UA_2013-05-22-m0.u152	Yeah.
ParlaMint-UA_2013-05-22-m0.u153	I thank you so much for asking. The law itself was passed in 2012. He took the last call, not with us. And he was being prepared, and I know exactly why, because I took part, and a lot of people here took part, and he was being prepared by two governments. We've been breached with enormous force there. the opposition of officials, which is because, in fact, officials don't want order. Officials don't want to make a difference because they live off it. We propose today, there's a Framework Law on Administrative Services, now order the procedure for providing them. This is the next step, a step that the entire society of Ukraine needs.
ParlaMint-UA_2013-05-22-m0.u154	Thank you. Have a seat.
ParlaMint-UA_2013-05-22-m0.u155	Thank you.
ParlaMint-UA_2013-05-22-m0.u156	The report is headed by the Committee on State Building and Local Self-Government, Oleg Yuliyovich Bukhovec, please.
ParlaMint-UA_2013-05-22-m0.u157	Commissioners, according to the mandate of the Head of the Supreme Council, the Committee discussed at its meeting on 17 April 2013 the draft Ukrainian Law amending the Ukrainian Law on Administrative Services (to eliminate the possibility of corruption in the provision of administrative services). The Committee on Budget Affairs believes that the bill has no impact on the statement of the budget and informs that the Ministry of Finance of Ukraine, in its expert opinion, notes that the individual provisions of the bill contain inaccuracies and contradictions and then prevents the need for its substantive work. The Committee on Combating Organized Crime and Corruption recommends that the bill be adopted as a basis. The main scientific and expert office of the Supreme Council of Ukraine believes that part of the bill does not actually contain new norms, so their adoption instead of systematizing legislative rules can have a reverse effect, recommends that the bill be returned to the subject of the right of legislative initiative to work. The All-Ukrainian Association of Local Self-Government Authorities, the Association of Cities of Ukraine, in its conclusion to the bill, notes that the proposal for removal in part seven of article 9 of the Ukrainian Law on Administrative Services, paragraph 3-17, may lead to an increase in the time-limit for provision of services and an increase in the cost of obtaining the service subject and support the proposal for the return of the draft law to the legislative initiative to work towards the definition of the mechanism for obtaining additional information contained in the documents proposed to be removed from the list and the financing of the relevant activities. While supporting the idea of simplifying the provision of administrative services, the Committee agrees with the need for a substantial improvement of the bill, the Supreme Council of Ukraine recommends, in accordance with article 114, paragraph 3, of the First Rule of the Supreme Council of Ukraine, that the subject of the legislative initiative be returned for further development. Thank you for your attention.
ParlaMint-UA_2013-05-22-m0.u158	Thank you. Is there a question for the people's deputies? None. Please sign up for a faction discussion. I beg you, Party of Regions, who will be speaking? The People’s Deputy of God’s Word. Please, please, the microphone is on.
ParlaMint-UA_2013-05-22-m0.u159	Dear colleagues, good day to you all. This bill would have been appropriate if it had been adopted at least a year ago, because today in Ukraine there is already a targeted organisation of administrative services centres in district centres above all. And so far, the President of Ukraine has been tasked by the government: by the end of this year, in the vast majority of the regions already have administrative services centres. This bill goes beyond the legislative initiatives of Parliament. This falls entirely within the purview of the executive authority and can be decided on the basis of the tools and powers that the Cabinet of Ministers, the President's Office and the executive branch are already organizing administrative services centres. The additional budget costs that will definitely have to be borne if we adopt this law are completely unwarranted. For example, the government is today considering the provision of administrative services centres based on enterprises and branches of Ukraine, which has the most comprehensive public service delivery system in Ukraine, and this could lead to an absolute minimization of costs for the organization of new administrative services centres. With regard to formulation, what it is and how it works, it is also the absolute competence of the executive branch. We don't have to adopt a separate law and budget it, and create new and new structures, because we know Parkinson's law: as long as you don't reduce power, it grows. I mean, once again, the current Ukrainian authorities are dealing with the creation of administrative centres; they are already created in a large number of cities, and they are even rural areas where there are already administrative services centres, so here to go to legislative regulation, this is the competence of executive authorities. Thank you.
ParlaMint-UA_2013-05-22-m0.u160	The faction of the Communist Party of Ukraine, the Kudra People's Deputy. Please, National Deputy Gordienko.
ParlaMint-UA_2013-05-22-m0.u161	Dear Chairman! Dear colleagues! Dear citizens of Ukraine! I am the author of the bill and all Ukrainian citizens, and I would like to remind and inform my colleagues that the faction of the Communist Party of Ukraine did not vote in favour of the Administrative Services Act, as we think it is an additional tax on our citizens. While this law was not in place, services were provided. And there was no obstacle. I would like to draw your attention to the fact that our citizens, once again paying tax under this law, are forced to go and pay another tax for the fact that the authorities, by their very nature, should provide and provide these services. But they've been paid. And Ukrainian citizens pay for it. That's the only thing I'm paying attention to. Today, a person in a rural area who goes to the center of employment is turned around and said, “Go and get some information that you’re not an entrepreneur. ” When she goes to the registration department, they say, go, pay 38 or 43 bracelets, and only then will we give you this help. An absurd thing the world has never seen! We've drawn attention to this in the last summons. We cried, we voted against this bill. But the extra tax, the extra burden was placed on our citizens. I would like to go to Oksana Petrovna and her colleagues, working groups and numerous amendments to this bill to make it happen. But it was not supported by the sessional hall when the law was introduced and voted. I would like to draw your attention to the honourable drafters of the bill, which, unfortunately, is a very good wish for you to have fewer documents. But you don't offer solutions. Therefore, the faction of the Ukrainian Company, which has examined this bill in detail, will propose and vote in favour of it in favour of the committee's decision to redraft it. Thank you for your attention.
ParlaMint-UA_2013-05-22-m0.u162	The Fatherland faction, National Deputy Alexander Kugel.
ParlaMint-UA_2013-05-22-m0.u163	Dear Chairman! Dear colleagues! Dear voters! You know, she listened to a colleague's speech and mentioned an anecdote. You say you like Caruso? No, he says my neighbor sang it to me. Well, dear friends, you can't discuss a bill that's completely different from what you're talking about. He's solving the questions that you're stressing that you want to be solved. But, indeed, the Lady of God’s Word correctly said that it was late. For two years now, regulatory policies have been destroyed, all the ideologies of the permissive system destroyed, and a transparent system of providing administrative services. Where does the ideology of providing administrative services come from? Dearly beloved, you and I, Ukrainians, are paying taxes to the authorities to provide the Ukrainian citizens with the necessary administrative services. In 2009, as head of the Enterprise, I made a request, and how many in each ministry are state-owned enterprises that provide administrative services. About 6,000. Some ministers, I can make a bet, don't know the list of enterprises that are now on balance and in control of these ministries. For example, the Ministry of Defense provides all services even for funerals, weddings, restaurants, audio recordings. We've made commercial firms out of ministries. That's when we first took a lead on this -- we canceled the government's decision to grant permission to the State Agency for transporting permits to carriers. In Poland this gives four people. We have an office in Kiev with 300 people. 300 people, office. We canceled. A new government came, gave again, regained its right. Now I've canceled again. What does this bill foretell? Please tell me if it's stupid for a person to get a foreign passport to go to the police and pay to get a statement that you're not. You can't go to the police. Come in and see that I'm not a judge? That's what this law is about. He predicts that if a public institution needs to take a statement from a state institution, it has the right to turn to an electronic document. The document may receive this certificate. I'm talking to each and every one of you. This bill is a lactus paper, or you really do.
ParlaMint-UA_2013-05-22-m0.u164	Finish up.
ParlaMint-UA_2013-05-22-m0.u165	You're doing your President's simplification program and business opportunities, and you want to get up in quality business ratings in Ukraine. Our "Fatherland" faction supports this bill and thanks our colleagues for preparing it.
ParlaMint-UA_2013-05-22-m0.u166	It's Vitaly Call's Faction. Agaphonov's national MP, please.
ParlaMint-UA_2013-05-22-m0.u167	Dear colleagues, Reverend Vladimir Vasilovich, we have repeatedly asked ourselves how our citizens live now as they receive administrative services. In fact, they need to provide help that indicates that there is yet another need for help. That's how life happens, in total bureaucracy. In addition, in various parts of our country, government agencies have set different costs for these services. They also set up different lists of documents. What do we propose? We're proposing what's already here. All government authorities now have all the necessary registers. There's all the data you need. What do we propose? So that the citizen does not perform the duty of transferring one piece of paper from one state authority to another, but that the state itself serves and does so. She has the capacity to do so. It's all been created. And once again, the point is that it's impossible, that it's necessary to finance it. Dear colleagues, that's all there is. All the data is there. Therefore, I would also like to point out that those centers of administrative services that have been created do not work properly, as foretold. They don't solve problems for a citizen. And it's also not a question of putting all the government authorities in the same place. They may be where they are. The question is that they're going to be, let's say, this is the question that this bill deals with the interaction of government authorities between themselves. So let's try to do what we all promised in our election programs. Let us address the issue of domestic corruption. Let's go down. Clearly, the question is not only in the responsibility, but the question is that we set other conditions for our citizens. In order not to give bribes at every stage of receiving help. In order for a citizen to live on the principle of how many civilized democratic citizens live, according to the principle stated, by the principle of communication. He filed an application, and then all state authorities interact with each other. If we support Euro-integration aspirations, it's not just a list of those laws that were defined by the Law, it's about, there, visa liberalisation. And these are also just laws that will help all citizens to really feel like citizens who are respected by the state. Please support this bill. Thank you.
ParlaMint-UA_2013-05-22-m0.u168	Faction of Freedom, People’s Deputy Bublik. Please.
ParlaMint-UA_2013-05-22-m0.u169	Yuri Bublik, All-Ukrainian Freedom Union, Poltavščina. I'd like to give it to Oleg the Orphan.
ParlaMint-UA_2013-05-22-m0.u170	Let's take the Orphan, please.
ParlaMint-UA_2013-05-22-m0.u171	Oleg Orotyuk, faction of the All-Ukrainian Freedom Union. We thank the initiators very much. This is a bill that is very temporary, very necessary, which is urgent and solves many of the issues that our citizens now have. Because the implementation of this legislative initiative will allow you to receive quality services, administrative services, get them on time, and most importantly without corruption. Because in fact, we are in a situation where our citizens spend a lot of time in a variety of queues, getting a variety of help, extracts, copies of documents, and there are only about 17 categories in this law for natural persons. And in fact, people, instead of getting the long-awaited improvement of life now, are in those queues, in those manuals, trying to get the thresholds of the offices of various officials, getting the necessary documents. We believe that the adoption of this bill is extremely important and that our natural and legal persons have the opportunity to receive high-quality administrative services. We urge all parliamentarians to vote in favour of this bill. It is totally in line with the programs of all political parties and is designed to reduce the corruption component in order for Ukrainians to receive quality services, not to complain about authority, but to have more time for their own lives. Thank you for your attention.
ParlaMint-UA_2013-05-22-m0.u172	Thank you. Are there any MPs who would like to discuss it? Yes. Please sign up. Deputies, please sign up. National Deputy Dry, Party of Regions, please.
ParlaMint-UA_2013-05-22-m0.u173	Thank you. Jaroslav Suchy, the city of Zaporozhye, the Party of the Regions Dear colleagues, I am addressing the deputies of the previous calls. You remember Sergey Gordienko already talked about how difficult the Law on Administrative Services was. It is difficult, because of misunderstandings and, most importantly, then the MPs have expressed suspicion that in the future this bill will, as it becomes the law, put on our shoulders new risks, which completely do not match the spirit of the law that we have adopted with you. Thus, in the explanatory note of this law, the law of 2012, there would have to be some analysis, some information, some statistics, that the law had passed since 2012, that is, a short period of time. But he's already shown some of his flaws. Then the relevance of the question would be clear. The other one. I agree with both the authors, and I agree with the people who spoke with the national deputies who were from the districts, the positive in the administrative services that there is not yet. We did not expect the positive effect of this law. The whole country of Ukraine is a complete turn. And the joy of communicating with some smug person to get help. How much personal time, colleagues, how much nerves, and how much health our people have lost in these routines? It's about money. So this letter came to me, recently an older person died in Zaporozhye, 500 dollars had to be paid to give the investigator proof that he died of his death. We needed that law, and we talked about it differently. So I had a question: Can I improve the law to the second reading? No, it can't be improved. But do we need this law? Yes, it's necessary, but it's not like that. I'll tell you the main reason why we can't vote for him today is to send him to work. This law has a declarative character, look closely at the authors, there is no imperative, there is no "Transitional and Final Positions" there is no task for the Cabinet of Ministers, so who is to carry out the Law on Administrative Services? Administration, state. This law needs to be saved, and it needs to be preserved by sending the drafters to work on the bill. Thank you.
ParlaMint-UA_2013-05-22-m0.u174	Freedom Union, People's MP Mirny.
ParlaMint-UA_2013-05-22-m0.u175	Please give the floor to the national deputy of Switzerland, Igor Aleksandrovitch.
ParlaMint-UA_2013-05-22-m0.u176	I'd like to see the people's deputy of Schweik.
ParlaMint-UA_2013-05-22-m0.u177	Mr. Head! Ladies and gentlemen of the people! I'd like to stop at three aspects of today. First. The "Freedom" faction of the All-Ukrainian Union stands for this document and we will support it. The other one. During this time of special talk by the Party of Drylands, it was said that this law was of a declarative nature. The last period of time, which is about 2-2.5 years, is the declarative nature of each meeting of the Cabinet of Ministers of Ukraine. We have this law in Ukraine, a very good law in a formal name, called "The State Objective Programmes." So at this point in modern Ukraine, every government meeting has turned into a nice declaration of action, which is true when it comes to the last dot, and it's called "financial collateral." Financial security, no target program available. You and I are all working in Ukraine. I am anchored in the electoral districts of Kharkiv and Lugansk. And each of the people's deputies who either works in the districts, and even more, majors, they really know the state of affairs in their own area. Yes, in Kharkiv and Luhansk district there are beautiful administrative services, but have they become entrepreneurs, people who apply to local self-government authorities, I don't say of such a regulated area as the granting of land or the drafting of the right to an inheritance, or the drafting of documents on land ownership, or have citizens of Ukraine become simpler than the opening of a beautiful transparent office and a few more dozen of whose nephews and wives are employed in these places? Obviously not. Third. I would like to refer to the Head of the Supreme Council, who informed me yesterday that he had given the task to the head of the Counting Commission and repeated his request. On Friday, 17 numbers in the Supreme Council of Ukraine were violated during a personal vote. So the People's Deputy Koleschenko all this time with the head of the Luhansk district council of Golenk, head of the Luhansk district administration of Pristuk struggled with so-called "fascism," conducting an anti-fascist assembly first in the Luhansk district council, and then holding a rally. From 11 to 13 hours, you and I made a decision. Accordingly, I am addressing the Head of the Supreme Council and the Head of the Oil Commission: today we need to address the issue of the normal functioning of the Counting Commission, because after the election of the Oilynik region as head of the Counting Commission, this body is virtually not working. Moreover, he allowed the adoption of a completely unconstitutional decision in the Bank’s case, since the Counting Commission had not worked there. And I propose to the Parliament to return to this issue so that the representative of the opposition faction can lead.
ParlaMint-UA_2013-05-22-m0.u178	Thank you. I'm asking you, national deputy Yavorowski, faction of Fatherland.
ParlaMint-UA_2013-05-22-m0.u179	Dear Volodymira Vasilovich, Ksenija Ljapina in the elections on Darnica, knocked down the financial monster Suprunka, the son-in-law of Chernewsky, so I am happy to give her my word.
ParlaMint-UA_2013-05-22-m0.u180	People's MP, please.
ParlaMint-UA_2013-05-22-m0.u181	Xenya Lapina, "Fatherland" faction, Party "For Ukraine!"the city of Kiev. Thank you very much, colleague Yavorowski. And I want to draw attention to three arguments why this law is worth supporting. First of all, I remind you, every year, you and I, in the budget with the government, allocate hundreds of millions of dollars to finance the few tens of registers that exist in the state. These registers provide information on all aspects of the status of citizens. When a person from the center of employment is wanted for reference to a register, it's not just inhumane, it's a fellow citizen, it's also an irrational spending of budgetary resources, because for that information that's in these registers, we've already paid citizens all together through the state budget. All these registers are funded. The second question. In fact, the idea of the authors in part is already reflected in the project. And all the political forces in 2012 found strength in themselves, they crossed a narrow lobbyism. narrow - minded and voted in article 9, paragraph 7, which expressly stipulates that a citizen cannot be required by an entity to provide administrative services for any information held by the State. And all the examples that were cited here just show that this standard is simply not being fulfilled. In fact, the authors of the bill are proposing to make sure that these standards are at least partially set out in such details so that they cannot be directly implemented. Third. The question was repeatedly raised: Why have we not received any positive benefits from the administrative services centers so far? Why does the country turn into a country of queues? Dear colleagues, and just because the executive does not simply implement the Law on Administrative Services, because it was actually sufficiently eloquent, but there was no other choice, we were obliged to declare it first. But now it's time not only to declare – to prescribe procedures. And most importantly, your honor, to control the implementation of this law. And I'll remind you, you and I in the Supreme Council are not only enacting laws, but we also have a second constitutional function: monitoring their implementation. And it's time for this Law on Administrative Services to control hard, otherwise the queues will stand and the money will demand. Thank you.
ParlaMint-UA_2013-05-22-m0.u182	Vitalia Calla, Paul Rosenko, please.
ParlaMint-UA_2013-05-22-m0.u183	Thank you, distinguished national MPs. Paul Rosenco, Vitaly Caller's Faction. I want to say, by commenting as one of the drafters of the bill, which is designed by our faction, I want to comment on some of the speeches that have been heard here, and it's strange to call for something not to vote for the bill. You talk a lot about the achievement of power. Inna Hermanovna, listen to me carefully. But look at what's now going on at the center of administrative services. People take turns from the third hour of the night to at least get there to get these administrative services. Today, this system doesn't work, and it never works, no matter where you put it, whether in the center of Kiev, or in the department of Crucifixion, it never works, because the mechanical unification of all these services centers in one place doesn't solve the issue. If he needs to get some kind of service, get 50 help, no matter where this administrative service center is located, either in the village or in the city. Anyway, he's gonna lose a month to get all this help. And so the main, fundamental question that we have today is to take the citizens of Ukraine out of all its chains, starting with the start, the possibility of doing business to get pensions in Ukraine, before getting social assistance to get them out of the non-human-specific functions of collecting help. It's extraordinary. conflict of interest. Who in the country is the chief official or citizen of Ukraine? This is an official today. And the clerk says that if I give you permission, someone will grant you a pension, they will grant you social assistance, you want to get unemployment assistance, bring me 100 help; now I'm the clerk, and I want you to get no accreditation for telling me something bad about the Cabinet meeting, and I'm going to deprive you of your credentials, and I'm going to spit on all your laws and hopes. So the ideology of the state needs to be changed. We need to turn our heads. It's the main one. In a state of priority, it's a person. And if the clerk needs help, let the clerk get it. Moreover, there are opportunities for all of us today. The Pension Fund has its own system, it works well. There is a computerized system in the employment centers. Internal affairs have their computerized systems. Do not make people run after officials, allow people to work, earn, and receive adequate social assistance. That's what our bill is all about. That's why I'm asking all the national MPs to support the strike and execute faction initiative.
ParlaMint-UA_2013-05-22-m0.u184	Thank you. We have one more performance and then I'll give you a minute. Faction Hit, People's Deputy Motchov.
ParlaMint-UA_2013-05-22-m0.u185	Mocha Alexander, Vitaly Klicka Faction. Dear colleagues! It's a very important question. I fully support my colleague Rosenko Paula, who has just spoken on this bill. Do you know what's going on today? Today, only 7 percent of citizens remain fully satisfied with the quality of administrative services provided in one institution or another. Today, there is such a situation that when a child is born, it is necessary to pay for administrative services. When a person dies, you also have to pay. Today, a lot of people are standing in line waiting for permits, waiting for help and so forth. Why abuse our citizens, why abuse those people who are paying taxes today that require only one official to work for them. Because they hired them to work. That's why the faction of the Vitalia Klitschka political party fully supports this bill. We urge our colleagues to support this bill. And I'd like to add. People were asked where they had to pay the most bribes in the last 12 months of this year. So I want to tell you that by answering that question, they said the most important thing was to pay for it in the State Auto Inspectorate. This is in the case of car registration and technical inspection of cars. So I urge all the national MPs to support this bill. And not to be bullied by Ukrainian citizens and ordinary Ukrainians. Thank you.
ParlaMint-UA_2013-05-22-m0.u186	One minute, please, the People's Deputy of God.
ParlaMint-UA_2013-05-22-m0.u187	Dear colleagues! Please be careful. Well, what's the technical review for if we canceled it? Well, at least know Ukrainian legislation! And know in the same way that this law will not change the behavior of the executives at all. This is a question of executive power! Today, there is a huge opposition to bureaucracy in terms of work and the creation of administrative centres. And no law will change that. This is our requirement for the government to have the administration of the administrative centres carry out exactly the task that we have put into law with you! Because, indeed, today it has been revealed that we have adopted the Law on Administrative Services. A huge amount has been destroyed now, eliminating the types of administrative services that were before. If you know, there's a threefold reduction in the number of organizations that can provide government services on a commercial basis. This is nonsense that has been in Ukraine for years. That's why.
ParlaMint-UA_2013-05-22-m0.u188	Finish up, please.
ParlaMint-UA_2013-05-22-m0.u189	Today, it is not a matter of Parliament but of executive power. And our job as a parliament is to control the execution of executive power, the Administration Act, so that people in the same window get all the help without running around. It's a matter of control, not new laws that no one needs.
ParlaMint-UA_2013-05-22-m0.u190	Thank you. Oksana Petrovna. Is there a closing word? Please. Talk to me, it's on.
ParlaMint-UA_2013-05-22-m0.u191	Dear colleagues! I'm going to go first to those who have comments on the bill. I'm calling the Communist faction. Dear Sergey Volodymyrovich, this bill actually solves the problem that you did not vote on the Administrative Services Act. We delete the entire list of documents that are being sold today, which are being made available by the authorities to enable the following authorities to carry out their statutory functions. It is because the Law on Administrative Services in force in article 9 contains a vast list of mandatory documents to be submitted and given, and you have not voted. We suggest that we exclude this list and allow people to breathe and force officials to serve people. I ask you very much to support this bill, because this bill is for the common people. Not for officials, not for authorities. I'm addressing the faction of the Party of Regions. Dear Jaroslav Mikhailovich, you said it was. I can't see. You said it wasn't an imperative law. It's actually an imperative law, and it's just this law and the changes we've proposed, you can make officials do what Inna Hermanovna said. Because today the law, article 9 of the Law on Administrative Services, provides for 17 documents that must be made available by one authority or another. And in the administrative centers, the ones you're talking about, people come in and apply for one service, they take it, then they take it from here, and they give it to another service. At the same center, they're taken and given to a third. We propose to reduce the number of documents that people should go for, ask for, and pay for. That's what this bill is about. And with regard to analytics, about the things we should be given, because the Law on Administrative Services 2012 really is six months old. So I want to remind you, I work a lot with taxes, over 100 bills were introduced into the First Year Tax Code. And it was done automatically. Because if you want to make things better, you're working. If you don't want to do this, you're looking in. Why don't you do it? I'm talking to Inna Hermanovna, this is your direction of work, I'm talking to all the deputies from the faction of the Party of Regions, each of you always gives every authority a copy of the charter. We suggest that this be removed from the Administrative Services Act. We offer to simplify each person’s life. And I urge all MPs to vote in favour of the bill in the first reading and to work on it together before the second reading. If necessary, make a new edition for the committee. But do not reject the direction of a truly anti-corruption and normal economy. Thank you very much and please support the project in the first reading.
ParlaMint-UA_2013-05-22-m0.u192	Ladies and gentlemen, let's move on to the decision-making process. I'm betting on a draft bill of 2149 amending the Ukrainian Law on Administrative Services (to eliminate the possibility of corruption in the provision of administrative services) for adoption as a basis. Please vote. [[13:31:56]] For-167 Against - 1, held - 32, did not vote - 158. The decision is not taken. Do you have an offer? Jaroslav Suhi.
ParlaMint-UA_2013-05-22-m0.u193	Dear colleagues, I ask the session room to support the committee's proposal. This bill is necessary. Again, maybe you didn't understand what I was saying. In the Ends, the Transitional Positions should be addressed to whom this law is addressed and how to enforce it. You don't have that. If the second reading is in conflict with article 116 of the Rules. I propose that this law be amended for further processing and that this proposal be supported by voting.
ParlaMint-UA_2013-05-22-m0.u194	Thank you. I'm betting on the committee's proposal, draft Act (2149) amending the Ukrainian Administrative Services Act (to eliminate corruption in the provision of administrative services) to return to the committee for further work. People's deputies, please vote. [[13:33:24]] For 268. Against 0, held – 1, did not vote – 92. Decision taken. The factions. Got to know each other. The draft Act (2172) amending the Law on Milk and Milk Products and other legislative acts on strengthening measures to combat the falsification of dairy products is being introduced. How do we consider the question? Short-term. Please vote. [[13:34:19]] For-167 Against 33, held – 10, not voted – 146. Decision taken. Reported by the National Deputy of Ukraine, Dracac.
ParlaMint-UA_2013-05-22-m0.u195	Honorable National Deputies, Your Honors! Ukraine's draft Act amending the Law on Milk and Milk Products and other legislative acts to strengthen the fight against falsification of dairy products is designed to create legal conditions for the transparent and efficient activity of dairy producers of different types, to prevent substitution of concepts and falsification of dairy products, as well as to inform consumers clearly and fully of their products. The introduction of a new term “milk meat products” and the labelling of such products gives consumers the right to know clearly that such products are made from milk raw materials and non-milk raw materials and contain food additives or vegetable substitutes (milk fats, milk protein, lactose, palm oil, etc.). Unfortunately, today, producers of products that only partially contain natural ingredients, because of the use of deceptive terminology "milk product", "milk drink", " raw product" and others create in the consumer a false idea of the natural essence of the product and the consumer accepts them as full natural products. In addition, the use of milk substitutes by processing companies, the import of palm oil from abroad, leads to a reduction in the production volume of milk by farmers, our farmers. In order to prevent the occurrence of such facts, it is suggested that additional requirements be introduced for packaging and labelling of milk raw material, dairy products, and dairy products that would allow the final consumer to obtain information about the product without hindrance. With a view to preventing consumers from being misled and protecting their interests, it is proposed that conditions be created for a clear distinction between products on commercial shelves, to which it is legal to oblige businesses to place dairy products separately from dairy products. At the same time, with a view to ensuring that the law is implemented, the bill proposes to impose strict liability for infringements of the rules in force and to specify the legal basis for the application of the mechanism for State regulation of purchase prices for milk, the so-called fixed minimum price for milk, which can be introduced by the Cabinet of Ministers.
ParlaMint-UA_2013-05-22-m0.u196	Finish up.
ParlaMint-UA_2013-05-22-m0.u197	The package of measures proposed in this bill will contribute to the employment of the population in rural areas and ultimately to the improvement of the welfare of our peasants. Thank you for your attention. Congratulations to the Ukrainians on Santa's Spring Day.
ParlaMint-UA_2013-05-22-m0.u198	Thank you. Fellowship of the head of the Committee on Agricultural Policy and Land Relations, Oleg Anatolovich Králjov Please.
ParlaMint-UA_2013-05-22-m0.u199	Dear colleagues! Dear Vladimir Vasilevich! I want to thank the drafters of the bill: Andrea Derkacha, Gregory Smituha, Artem Pshonka. Only because of their persistence and active position, despite the strong resistance of milk-processing large companies, did the bill come into the hall today. The Committee supports the adoption of the bill. We believe that the consumer is. We will thus protect the interests of the consumer on the one hand, and on the other hand we will be able to use more real milk, thus making our farmer's life better. We therefore support this bill and request that it be adopted on first reading. Thank you.
ParlaMint-UA_2013-05-22-m0.u200	Who will translate what he said? Ladies and gentlemen, I ask you to sign up for the faction of the performance. I don't hear anything from a deputy. Freedom Union, Sabia.
ParlaMint-UA_2013-05-22-m0.u201	Igor Sabiy, the All-Ukrainian Freedom Union, 189 constituency, Hmelnichtina, Krasilev. The "Freedom" faction of the All-Ukrainian Union will support this bill as it will enable Ukrainians to finally eat what they want to eat -- real dairy products. The problem is that really many manufacturers use substitutions and people eat, not real milk, but palm oil, which they digest. Accordingly, we will allow more milk to be produced to our agricultural enterprises and to our mono-users, and this will definitely affect the price increase for milk. Clearly, this law is not a complete solution to the problem of price policy on milk. So the All-Ukrainian Freedom Union is now drafting a bill that also regulates the interests of those who produce milk, those who process it and those who sell it. We are convinced that our peasants should not only have a job in the village, as the Party of the Regions says, they still have the opportunity to earn, to get a fair price for their work. This will also enable us to provide social development for the village, which will allow us to reduce labour migration, because a man will not have to go anywhere to earn money, he will be more interested in buying another cow and more milk along with his family so that Ukrainians can eat quality dairy products, not all dairy products, and by no means imported products. We also have to anticipate restrictions on the import of milk products, especially smuggling products, both from Belarus and Poland and from other countries. So I am convinced that this bill, as one of the solutions, must be supported. Thank you.
ParlaMint-UA_2013-05-22-m0.u202	Party of regions, national deputy Blagodir.
ParlaMint-UA_2013-05-22-m0.u203	Your Honor, your colleagues! An absolutely practical, transparent and highly effective law. On the one hand, we have a divided dairy product on our face, where 100 percent of the milk raw material and a dairy product that uses vegetable fats. In making the decision, I also ask you to consider, Your Honor, that Ukraine today is one of the largest importers of palm oil or animal fats. So on the one hand, we're effectively protecting and informing the consumer, on the other hand, we're increasing the demand for milk, and this is already directly affecting the purchase price of milk for both the population and the dairy producers. It's a big request: to support all of us together, to all of us in the hall, this law. And in this way, without losing any money from the budget, we're going to form additional demand for milk, we're going to protect the consumer, and we're going to raise the price for the purchase price for milk. for the milk manufacturer, we'll do what we've declared here very often and what we've been fighting for. Thank you. The request of all to uphold the law, if possible, on the basis of it as a whole. Thank you.
ParlaMint-UA_2013-05-22-m0.u204	The Fatherland faction, the People's Deputy Kirilenko. Please, Ivan Grigorovich.
ParlaMint-UA_2013-05-22-m0.u205	Fatherland, Kirilenko. Dniproperty. Dear Head, distinguished colleagues, voters! I'll tell you what, we support the adoption of this bill, because we have made similar proposals on a number of occasions. This is a modest but commendable attempt to save the health of the nation and its children’s gene pool. Why do I say "anyhow"? Remember, we're five years behind the world, ten years behind, and there's a lot more. In this regard, in the area of healthy nutrition, it is the wish to exclaim from white: they are far behind forever. How it has angered people lately to have imported surrogates, soy substitutes, palm fronts instead of butter and so forth, and so on and so forth. This is especially true of milk and its products. What's going on here is very disturbing, starting with the price abuse of peasant producers. Totally. whether or not the already pitiful percentages are accounted for by the number of healthy newborns and the number of ready to serve in the military is one. Why am I still saying that they've been here forever? But because in a civilized world, the issue of natural food has already been removed from the order of the day because it has been solved once and for all. Instead, organic food is a powerful way to develop a diet that is clean, or more specifically organic. They are, indeed, worth an appropriate price. But close to the Supreme Council, a grocery store that sells organic products. Do you know how much a lamb from New Zealand costs? From 500 to 700 dollars per kilogram. The fish from France are 200-400 bucks. Similarly, fruits, vegetables, and dairy products. An entrepreneur who links this food thousands of miles away is not crazy because he found a consumer in Ukraine. Undoubtedly, he would gladly sell organic Ukrainian, and it is, and it costs less. But the law that would settle these problems is, no, more faithfully, it is.
ParlaMint-UA_2013-05-22-m0.u206	Finish up, finish up.
ParlaMint-UA_2013-05-22-m0.u207	It is, but from the submission of this government, unfortunately, it is dedicated to the President. Dear colleagues, logically, the question arises: What are the poor? And the same is true of the answer. We vote in favour of this law, even though it's half. Thank you.
ParlaMint-UA_2013-05-22-m0.u208	Ukrainian Company, National Deputy Gordienko, please.
ParlaMint-UA_2013-05-22-m0.u209	Sergei Gordijenko, faction of the Ukrainian Company, Poltavščina. The subject, respected colleagues, is extremely sensitive. It said that the bill takes into account the interests of both the manufacturer, the processor and the seller. I would like to remind you that these interests are extremely different, and the bill does not solve them at all. I'd like to stop at a couple of thesis. Why is there even a problem of falsifying dairy products? This problem exists because the dairy sector is completely destroyed in Ukraine. There's, you know, some people live near milk factories, and they haven't seen a dairy plant go there in years, because this dairy plant is all about imported powder. What kind of animal production will develop, and what quality will this produce produce? Because there is an extremely low purchase price for milk that completely destroys and renders this sector unfavourable. Because there is no protection of a domestic manufacturer and we do not protect it from imported products. Because business wants to make an extremely large profit on the extremely low quality of the product itself. That's what I'd like. The bill has the same thesis: dairy products are products made from milk raw materials and raw materials of non-milk origin. Think about what we're talking about! The only thing the authors suggest is that in the store it's going to be milk products, and there's going to be dairy products separately, and people with extremely low resources are going to take what's made of palm oil, and we're going to legalize it, and we need to develop and accept it.
ParlaMint-UA_2013-05-22-m0.u210	Finish up.
ParlaMint-UA_2013-05-22-m0.u211	And to adopt a bill on the total prohibition of palm production itself. For the price of milk. We fully support what is in this bill, but we remind ourselves that the President has noticed a beautiful bill that has solved this very problem. The faction of the Ukrainian Company will only vote in the first reading for the bill.
ParlaMint-UA_2013-05-22-m0.u212	Faction Impact, People's Deputy Kutov. Please.
ParlaMint-UA_2013-05-22-m0.u213	Dear colleagues! I'm going to start by supporting this bill, although we really have a lot of questions to ask it. First of all, I want to say that, really, the authors themselves, when they were speaking today, the author of the group of authors, he was talking today only about the milk-meat component of this bill, let's say. There was no government price regulation, and it seems to me that when this bill was being prepared and all the positive reactions and what we hear in this room today are precisely related to the distribution of dairy products and products that have more than 50 percent milk fat. For all the people of Ukraine, I want to say that in fact this bill is giving all people the opportunity today. It will give all people an opportunity in that case, if voted, not to be deceived and have the opportunity to make choices between products. As for the comments on the legalization of dairy products, the market will actually make its own choice, and people will make their own choices. When they see that the same money can be paid for a real natural product, not for palm oil, which we use very often today, people themselves will actually make that choice. And I want to say. Today, it was said that the bill would strike large manufacturers and.
ParlaMint-UA_2013-05-22-m0.u214	Finish up.
ParlaMint-UA_2013-05-22-m0.u215	in large processors, he won't really hit them. Big businesses today, international companies, they monitor the quality of, in fact, the use of milk in them at a decent level. And the use of palm oil isn't really like that. That's why we support this bill. But really, it requires a lot of work. Thank you.
ParlaMint-UA_2013-05-22-m0.u216	The discussion is over. I'm voting on the draft Act (Registration No. 2172) amending the Law on Milk and Milk Products and other legislative acts to strengthen measures to combat the falsification of dairy products. Please vote. [[13:50:45.]] For 267 Against-0, held-2, not a vote-87. Decision taken. The factions. Got to know each other. Deputies! In order not to announce a break between the two factions, I give the floor to Hani Herman's statement. Please.
ParlaMint-UA_2013-05-22-m0.u217	Dear friends! Today, in the capital city of Ukraine, there has been an event that has confirmed the world’s concern that there have been very dangerous political processes in Ukraine. Today, a group of extremists from Freedom broke down the door in Kiev City Administration and forced themselves into the hall. This was done in 1933 in Berlin. [[B in m in s a l in]] At first, they rushed into government premises, forced the doors to be broken down, and then broke doors in people’s homes, and took them to concentration camps. Will anyone then say that there are no manifestations of Nazism in Ukraine? I think that today we have to ask the ruble to the Attorney General's Office, to the Ukrainian Security Service, in front of the Ministry of Internal Affairs, to finally put order in our country to bring the responsibility of political extremists who are already allowing themselves to do what I repeat, from which those who came to power in Germany began in 1933. What are we going to do if we continue to tolerate politicians who use force instead of arguments that come out with cold weapons on mass shares that endanger our country's European choice, which create from Ukraine an image of a state in which the resurgence of Nazism is possible? Today, I urge all people of goodwill to evaluate objectively these complacent shortcomings that have come to Ukraine in order to compromise it. I'm asking the Attorney General, I'm asking the Head of the Security Service, I'm asking the Minister of Internal Affairs to come to Parliament tomorrow and let us know what has been done to lead to the awareness of political extremists in Ukraine.
ParlaMint-UA_2013-05-22-m0.u218	Replica, one minute.
ParlaMint-UA_2013-05-22-m0.u219	Dear fellow national MPs! Oleg Tuggnibok, faction of the All-Ukrainian Freedom Union. What really took place in the city council of Kiev, and where were the manifestations of fascism really? Today is the last session of the Kiev City Council. Why? Because it is June 2nd that the authority of the Kiev City Council is completed. Because these are who? [[B in m in s a l in]] Party of regions who? Communists Who? That is why they do not vote for the election to the Kiev City Council. And today in the Kiev City Council, when the session began, MPs, national deputies, were not released to these congregations. So the national MPs didn't break the door, neatly remove it from the curtain, walk in and put it in place. So which one of us is Fascist? Get down on the ground with your nonsense. You've lost. You're the political losers and you're the place in the history trash. Glory to Ukraine!
ParlaMint-UA_2013-05-22-m0.u220	The morning session of the Supreme Council of Ukraine is closed. Tomorrow at 10 a.m., we'll continue our work.
