ParlaMint-UA_2013-12-03-m0.u1	Good morning, distinguished national deputies, invited and guests of the Supreme Council! People's deputies, please prepare for registration. Turn on the "Race" system. [[10:06:17]] There were 411 national deputies registered in the hall. The morning session of the Supreme Council of Ukraine is open. The factions of the registration. Region Party – 196, Fatherland – 84, Vitalia Klicka – 41, Freedom Union – 36, Company – 31, non-fractional – 23. Today is the birthday of the National Deputy of Ukraine, Oleg Valeriyovich Ljasko. Let's say hello. [[Applause]] Happy birthday! Dear National Deputies! Today, December 3rd, the world community celebrates the International Day of Disabled Persons. The Supreme Council should make every effort to ensure that people with special needs are provided with decent conditions for full life and self - realization. Let us welcome these courageous and unbreakable people and wish each one good health, well - being, and true human happiness. I'm reporting the data. They're not in the hall today, we have a hospital. Is there a Carpunz national MP? Is it? Yes. Is there a Melniczuk Larissa Yuriovna? None. Is the National Deputy of Ukraine Parobya Andry Volodymyrovich there? None. [[B in m in s a l in]] Where? Yes. Please. Is there a Stoyan? None. Is there a Mathios Maria Vasilovna? Yes. National MP Mishchenko Andry Mikolaiovich is there? Yes. There is an order. People's deputies who are in shipping. Wasadze, the national deputy, is there? I won't. Raupov. Yes. Vasilyev Alexander Andriyovich. Yes. Calchenko. Is there a Calchenko? Yes. Cozub. Yes. Leonov. Yes. Hopil. Yes. Ariev. There is Ariev. All right, I read it to you. On December 3, there are no national deputies on vacation. Let's move on. Let me make an announcement. In accordance with part three of article 60 of the Rules of the Supreme Council of Ukraine and according to personal claims, I report the withdrawal of the Party of the People’s Deputies of Ukraine, David Wažajevich. [[Applause]] In accordance with part three of article 60 of the Rules of the Supreme Council of Ukraine and according to personal claims, I report the withdrawal of the faction of the Party of the People’s Deputies of Ukraine of Inna Hermanovna Bogoslovak. [[Applause]] There are no other statements in the Secretariat. Next. Dear National Deputies! On 28 November 2013, the Central Election Commission registered the National Deputy of Ukraine, Demiduk Vasil Haritonović, elected by the election, at the election of the Ukrainian National Deputies on 28 October 2012 in a state-wide multi-member constituency constituency that was included in the Communist Party of Ukraine's electoral list. In accordance with article 79 of the Constitution of Ukraine, before taking office, national deputies take an oath before the Supreme Council of Ukraine. The National Deputy of Ukraine, Vasil Haritonovich Demedyuk, is invited to make an oath to the rostrum. Please.
ParlaMint-UA_2013-12-03-m0.u2	I swear allegiance to Ukraine. I commit myself to upholding Ukraine’s sovereignty and independence by all my actions, caring for the welfare and welfare of Ukraine’s people. I vow to abide by the Constitution and the laws of Ukraine, to carry out my duties in the interests of all fellow countrymen.
ParlaMint-UA_2013-12-03-m0.u3	Let's welcome the People's Deputy in office. Dear colleagues, in accordance with article 25 of the Rules, we have 30 minutes on Tuesday for statements by authorized members of the MPs with proposals, announcements, statements, and messages. I'd like the factions to sign up for the performance. The faction of the Party of the Regions, the People's Deputy of China.
ParlaMint-UA_2013-12-03-m0.u4	Dear National Deputies! Respectable compatriots! In Ukraine, systemic socio-economic and socio-political problems are growing, including clear attempts to implement external political and economic pressure scenarios in Ukraine. On the Supreme Council, there is a huge responsibility for peace, peace in society, the protection of national Ukrainian interests, the preservation of territorial integrity and statehood. I remember very well the historical events in this room when we claimed by constitutional majority the status of the independent state of Ukraine. 22 years is a very difficult path. But we have always been proud of the fact that the Ukrainian people have endured all the hardships in a peaceful democratic way, without the humiliation of national or religious dignity, without the bloody resistance of many European states and the post-Radians space. Therefore, the latest developments — capture of administrative buildings, physical violence against peaceful demonstrators, strong opposition — are clearly unacceptable. [[B in m in s a l in]] So there is an offer in the Supreme Council to create a temporary special commission and the guilty should be punished irrespective of political colour, status, and office. Honourable National MPs, Ukraine is irreversibly integrated into the European world economic and political system. It is vital that we do not turn Ukraine’s Euro-Integration Route into political personal and conjunctural goals or political conjunctural confusion, for it is the strategic direction of our nation and it is necessary to concentrate our wisdom, responsibility, mind in building modern European standards on Ukrainian soil. Ukraine has, honourable national deputies, huge acquisitions made by generations of scientists, engineers, labor teams: missile-space complex, aviation, shipbuilding, energy, transport. And for us, the principle is to provide the necessary development conditions for Ukraine's decent place in the world. [[B in m in s a l in]] And it can never be allowed, coming out of economic patriotism, to turn Ukraine into a raw material or a cheap labor exporter for the developed East. It's very important, and we insist, that Ukraine is having complex negotiations with our partners both in the West and in the East. And everyone should understand that when the state is divided, when the state is involved in internal conflicts, the position of Ukraine in the negotiations is very weak. And integration is not just new opportunities, it's tough competition for living, political, economic space. And you can never forget that. The urgent tasks ahead of us, before the Supreme Council, are of the utmost importance to the government, despite the acute socio-political and socio-economic situation, to focus our joint actions on the formation and adoption of the State budget for 2014. We need to have a clear plan of action to adapt Ukraine's economy to the conditions of free trade with the EU with appropriate compensators, minimizing the losses that we are facing in terms of deteriorating Eastern relations. And everyone has to understand that only a state that forms equal conditions of partnership with other states throughout the perimeter based on the balance of national, economic, political interests with the interests of partners has the opportunity to win global competition. What matters most is finding a way out of a difficult situation in a peaceful democratic way. We stress and propose once again – to launch a national round table to discuss issues in a clear discussion based on Ukraine's national interests, with the compulsory participation of all the civil, political forces of Ukraine. Once again, I stress, especially the public forces, and together, to look for solutions that make it possible on the basis of our wisdom, to be responsible to the Ukrainian people to build a single, competitive, modern state of Ukraine. Thank you for your attention.
ParlaMint-UA_2013-12-03-m0.u5	Thank you. Ladies and gentlemen, I have instructed our session to be broadcast on the street. And it's already on. People’s deputies asked that the session be broadcast on the street. Faction Leader, Vitaly Klitschko Faction Leader. Please.
ParlaMint-UA_2013-12-03-m0.u6	Vladimir Vasilovich, you forgot, at first we asked you to broadcast on the street. You forgot to make a roll call to "Berkut," here to do it. And we forgot to invite a government that we're about to talk about resigning.
ParlaMint-UA_2013-12-03-m0.u7	We didn't forget anything. We did it all.
ParlaMint-UA_2013-12-03-m0.u8	All that's going on in the country today is no comment. Each of us knows, we were initially robbed of hope. The Ukrainians stole the hope of living in a modern country. And the indignant Ukrainians went out for a peaceful demonstration, and as the Berkut treated young people without sports slogans with Ukrainian flags, there was no such thing in the history of our country. We must, we must not turn Ukraine into a police state. If we swallow this right now, we're going to swallow it, we're going to swallow it forever. And this applies to each of you, to every Ukrainian. And today, we have to admit that no conclusions have been drawn from the massacre on the Main of Independence, nor has the government, nor has the President ever done so. In spite of her image of the public's outrage with the act of "Berkut," the authorities continued to shed blood. Now, under the walls of the President's Administration, after the provocations of aunts, Berkut attacked people again. I am grateful to every citizen who at this time became one of the provocateurs and Berkut and refused to allow these shameful events to happen again. December 1st. Forty Ukrainian and foreign journalists hit the Berkutu counters. Yet these are not the only facts of the open crime of today’s authorities toward the media. I demand punishment for those who ordered and committed crimes against people in Maidan, as well as for those who beat journalists. [[Applause]] I demand the resignation of the government. [[Applause]] As well as removing and attracting the criminal responsibility of the entire administration of the Ministry of Internal Affairs of Ukraine. [[Applause]] The government of Azarov must be politically responsible for both the spillage of blood in Midan and the collapse of the economy and in the social sphere throughout the country. A non-professional government must resign! I'm talking to everyone! [[Applause]] We demand an end to political repression in the country. And all those who have been detained in the course of criminal acts of power against members of the Eromaydan must be released. I'm calling on the pro-powerful deputies that you're also responsible for what's going on in the state today, and each of you has a personal responsibility, if you don't vote in favour of resignation, I've heard about it, the resignation of the government. Each of you has a personal responsibility. [[Applause]] And the last. The full responsibility for crimes against Ukrainian citizens lies with the person who has all the authority and authority in Ukraine – President Janukovic of Ukraine. The authorities boast of their verticality, but the gathering of all authority in their hands also means full responsibility for their actions. That's why we're demanding the presidential election of Ukraine in the first place. () [[Applause]] I would like to point out that the full replacement of power should take place in a legitimate way. Today, there are reasons, all there are laws to recharge power. I am calling on President Yanukovic to voluntarily resign and declare the election on a permanent basis. This is the only way to show common sense in the country’s political crisis. Don't do anything stupid, don't drive yourself and the country into a dead end. Do not divide the fate of dictators who have fled their countries forever. People's protests on the streets, I want to emphasize once again, peaceful. They were thrown out of the void in this situation, where they remained, a desire for a complete change in the situation in the country. Realize it if we are. We need to hear people. I ask everyone not to make mistakes, to make it better for the Ukrainians, it's in our power. And now is the time when we can actually see, do you support a police state or a democratic state? And on each of you, once again, I want to say that it's up to each and every one of you to live in a normal country or live in a police state that's being robbed and given no hope, no hope in any. () [[Applause]]
ParlaMint-UA_2013-12-03-m0.u9	Finish it or something.
ParlaMint-UA_2013-12-03-m0.u10	I'm sure the government should resign. And I ask all the deputies, all of them, each of the deputies to support this decision. Thank you. () [[Applause]]
ParlaMint-UA_2013-12-03-m0.u11	The Fatherland faction, the leader of the Arsenius Yatzenuk faction, please.
ParlaMint-UA_2013-12-03-m0.u12	I'll start with that, Mr. Head, that as soon as your Party of Regions had taken 200 aunts to the Supreme Council of Ukraine. The Fifth Channel just showed up. Give a team of these bandits you hire to rally, get out of the Supreme Council of Ukraine, or the people of Ukraine will come in. Shame! [[B in m in s a l in]] Mr. Head and the distinguished opposition, the first question: where is the disgraceful Mikola Azarov along with his anti-Ukraine government? The people of Ukraine are ready to see them here. In your interview with Viktor Yanukovic, you stated that you were ready to listen to the people of Ukraine. If you didn't come to Parliament, well, we invite you, Viktor Yanukovich and Mikola Azarova to Maidan, there you will be able to listen to the people of Ukraine, they have something to tell you. [[Applause]] In the country, it is not just a political crisis. It's not an economic problem, it's not a problem of power distribution and constitutional implementation, it's a problem of human dignity and injustice in Ukraine over the last three years. It's a problem of bullying a man and a citizen, it's neglecting the rights and freedoms of Ukrainians, it's a stolen country stolen by Viktor Yanukovic and your disgraceful Party of Regions. You're rounding the country. What broke up your faction is just a testimony that your end is near. But the fact that you're going to split up the Ukrainian state and the fact that millions of Ukrainians have lost faith in their future is not a legal responsibility, it's a historical responsibility. [[B in m in s a l in]] A historical responsibility to be borne. [[B in m in s a l in]] Take the aunt, please!
ParlaMint-UA_2013-12-03-m0.u13	So what are we doing? I don't. What is it, tell me?
ParlaMint-UA_2013-12-03-m0.u14	There is now a provocation of the Party of Regions, just as in the Bank's beating of the Provokers of the Party of the Regions, just as the Leader of the Parliament of the Rybak has now given the direction to bring in "the aunts". We urge you to stop the provocation immediately. Mr. Head! Stop the provocation immediately and get your bandits out of Parliament.
ParlaMint-UA_2013-12-03-m0.u15	Let's see it together. I didn't let anyone start. Come on. Let's take a break for ten minutes. And let's go. Ten minutes off. Let's go.
ParlaMint-UA_2013-12-03-m0.u16	Do not give in to provocation. There's no one here in the Supreme Council building, and let's work it out. I've never given a team or a team. Remember that! I didn't give or I wouldn't give! Arseny Petrovich, how many more minutes do you need? Huh? Three minutes, turn it on.
ParlaMint-UA_2013-12-03-m0.u17	You're going the right way. Shame on your president and shame on your government! [[B in m in s a l in]] What happened in Ukraine is the personal responsibility of Viktor Janukovich and Mikola Azarov and your disgraceful government. The first step is the resignation of the Cabinet of Ministers of Azarova-Januković. Second, the criminal responsibility must be brought to justice by the Minister of Internal Affairs, Zacharychenko beat our children, and he must be punished for it. Third. Viktor Yanukovich will not be able to escape responsibility. He is personally responsible for everything that is going on in the country. You crossed a line, you crossed a line of human dignity, human freedom, human rights. You've crossed a line from which there's no turning back. That is why we demand that the government of Azarov be suspended, that Minister Zharchenk be put in place, and that Viktor Yanukovich be dismissed. Voting for the Order on the resignation of the Cabinet of Ministers. The one who does not support resignation means that he is equally responsible for the children who have been beaten, that he is equally responsible for the savage "Berkut," that he is equally responsible for the failure of the economy and the destruction of our European integration, and that he will likewise be responsible to the people of Ukraine, and to an honest and just court. We demand a vote in favour of resigning the government as a first step and a case against Zacharychenk as a restoration of justice in Ukraine. Glory to Ukraine!
ParlaMint-UA_2013-12-03-m0.u18	Dear National Deputies! The situation is tense. Have a seat. Let's hear it. There is the leader of the "Freedom" faction Oleg Tegnibok. I'm asking you to sit down. Do not give in to the rumors that you hear. There's nothing in the Supreme Council and there won't be. Let's make peace here. Please.
ParlaMint-UA_2013-12-03-m0.u19	Glory to Ukraine! [[Yelling, "Heroam of glory!"]] The situation in Parliament and in Ukrainian society and in the Ukrainian State is not simply tense. It's catastrophic in any way, both politically and economically. I don't even intend to go to this part of the room right now, because they're voting in favour of resigning the government, and they won't, because they're covering for bandits and criminals, obviously because they are. I address the Ukrainian people. I address all Ukrainians. People are good! Fight this gang, which has been demeaning Ukrainians for the past four years, depriving us of our national rights, trampling on our national dignity! People are good! Rise up against the fact that they are destroying our civil rights, taking away our freedom of speech! They denied free elections in Ukraine. People are good! Get up! Create strike committees! Protest against the banditry that destroyed the economy of the country today, which has led to social injustice! What is there to say in that Parliament? Someone else naively imagined and thought they would react to those animals in the heathens who beat students who beat journalists who drowned Majdan Independence in the blood?Oh, my God! Would you like to celebrate the new year? Do you want to celebrate in the center of Kiev on blood?Oh, my God! Do you have a conscience?Oh, my God! But you should come here and repent! You should be on your knees apologizing to the people! What did you lead us to?Oh, my God! How dare you wear your deputy badges?Oh, my God! How dare you go into another discussion?Oh, my God! You should all be punished! Because you've brought the state to chaos and you think you're hiding from responsibility? You can't hide! Ukrainians! We create strike committees, we go out on the street. Ukrainians, you can't work everywhere right now! We need to understand that today or never! The situation in Ukraine already resembles a revolutionary moment. We need to bring about a revolutionary situation! Yes, yes, yes! Oh! Oh! Oligarchs, O you bandits! Oh, the theft of the budget! The people will come out, take away everything you've robbed! You think you can hide?Oh, my God! Do you think you can avoid responsibility?Oh, my God! It won't happen! People are good! Today, unless a government resignation is voted on, but, judging from what is being done here, it will not be voted on! The government hasn't been invited! So they have no intention of listening to him. There is no intention to be held accountable for his actions. You've been talked to, asked questions, you don't want to vote, you don't want to vote, you don't want to vote, you don't want to vote, you don't want to vote, you don't want to vote, you don't want to vote, you don't want to hear a lot of non-factions, so it's going to be an appropriate response! You now have all the responsibility! What's about to happen in the country. You think people went out for money to protest against you? You're so wrong! People came out because you've already got the people! They got their hammocks, got their cynicism, got their bandits in pursuit! Today, in front of the Supreme Council and inside, in the territory of the Supreme Council, the villains who had to be punished had to be released! What about today, why did they come here?Oh, my God! Protect us? We don't need to be guarded! They should have been removed from their responsibilities for a long time. What is it?Oh, my God! People pay the budget with their taxes. From that money, they're paid, and they're saying, "On your knees"?Oh, my God! They say, "Frequently give"?Oh, my God! They dig people up and ask if they're still alive?Oh, my God! But look at the footage on the news! The older women, the older men, the kids, they're beaten to the right, to the left. Do you have any basic dignity? You don't understand that you're politically responsible, you're responsible for everything that's being done on the street right now! There's nothing to talk about! Guys, let's go, let's fight! This is a chance now, a real chance to defeat that power. The impeachment is the President! Retirement is the government! Retirement to Parliament after that! Reload full power! And only then will we be able to change the real situation in Ukraine. Otherwise, nothing will happen. Open a textbook on political science: two ways: either evolutionary, parliamentary, or revolutionary. You have led to a revolution in Ukraine today that will wipe you out! We're gonna win! Glory to Ukraine!
ParlaMint-UA_2013-12-03-m0.u20	The Communist Party faction, Peter Simonenko.
ParlaMint-UA_2013-12-03-m0.u21	Respectable citizens of Ukraine, respected colleagues! On behalf of the Ukrainian Company, I reiterate that we strongly condemn violence and cruelty in relation to peaceful demonstrations. We also condemn the actions of provocateur fighters regardless of who was behind them and who was giving orders. And those who want to sign the Association Agreement with the EU and those who advocate joining the Customs Union have the full right to stand up for their beliefs peacefully and openly, without fear of repression, persecution and physical violence. Everyone has the right to manifest any ideology, to maintain any political views, unless they preach cruelty and aggression, racism, xenophobia and hatred against our people. What is currently happening in the country is a conscious escalation of political tension, nothing more than the struggle of the oligarchic clans behind the presidential chair, a struggle in which people as cannon meat are thrown into the root of a bloody civil resistance, a struggle to win in which the oligarchs are willing to destroy our country. And it's a bitter truth, but it's absolutely true. Based on its principle, the position that all the contributing issues in our country should be resolved by the will of our people, the Company, and called on citizens to initiate the All-Ukrainian referendum and determine on it the vector of external economic integration. It's the only democratic civilised way to solve the issues of interest. But the authorities and so-called opposition decided to shut the mouth of the people of Ukraine, banning the referendum, wrongly restricting the constitutional rights of citizens, banning the collection of signatures to support the referendum. This is what was done to prevent people from hearing and relying on it. Despite all these bans, the Ukrainian Company has collected over 3.5 million signatures from our citizens. And not "democratic" (in paws) European leaders spit on the right of the people of Ukraine and on their own, as they assure us, fundamental values without supporting the holding of the All-Ukrainian referendum. I'll remind you, at meetings with Cox-Kwasnevsky's mission, at meetings with Euro-Commissioner Fuele, by the way, you've witnessed my position and other European leaders, and I've repeatedly voiced our position and warned that the All-Ukrainian referendum is the only way to prevent the growing resistance and deepening divisions in society, which, as we have witnessed, has already turned to violence, bloodshed, and maybe if we don't stop it now, we can turn into a tragedy for our Ukrainian people. That's why, on behalf of the Company, on behalf of our voters and supporters, I officially declare all political responsibility for the Maydan massacre on the night of November 30. With the possible consequences of today’s opposition and the country’s plunge into the abyss of civil war, it is today that the representatives of the oligarchic clans, both in power and in what is called the opposition, as well as pseudo-democracy Europe, with its double standards. Target one: power at all costs. Oligarchs, oligarchs are not interested in the problems of ordinary people, nor are they interested. They're using them. They use the righteous indignation of people in their beggarly state, using their hopes, their hopes for a better future. And by using it, they're just dumping it as work stuff, which, by the way, also testifies to the entire 22-year history of our independence with you. They would take people out on the field, shed their slogans, and then, when they did their black work, they would forget about ordinary Ukrainian laborers. That is why the Company appeals to the people of Ukraine, to their common sense and wisdom, we call for unity in the fight, not for the interests of the clans, but for their right to rule on their own land. Unite yourself so that tragedy and bloodshed will not be allowed. Our children suffer in the interests of the oligarchs today. And you can see what that leads to. And we have to do everything we can to make sure that this doesn't happen. No Midian, no politician has the right to speak on behalf of the entire nation. Such a right belongs exclusively to the Ukrainian people. That's why we Communists today, and we urge -- we urgently need to stop this escalation of tension, because it's going to lead to trouble. It will lead to civil opposition. Because today they are trying to take into account the perspective of some who see their prospect of joining the European community rather than taking into account the perspective of other Ukrainian citizens who have a different position and a different path that they choose. Therefore, by means of a referendum, a civilized and democratic way, let the people make their choices in which alliances, when and under what conditions Ukraine should unite. We Communists are calling for a stop today. Stopping to save a country that is trying to break apart, and I do not rule out that the very deepening of the same gap that exists today in Ukraine is being used only to preserve the oligaric power regardless of which flags it will appear again in Ukraine. Therefore, by calling for understanding, urging the people of Ukraine to do their part, we today declare: We will restore the people’s right to vote, and we will give the people their right to choose! Thank you.
ParlaMint-UA_2013-12-03-m0.u22	Thank you. From the nonfractional word Vladimir Mikhailovich Litvina, 6 minutes. Please.
ParlaMint-UA_2013-12-03-m0.u23	Dear Volodymyr Vasilovich, dear colleagues! I'm not a political group, and I'm going to say it. [[B in m in s a l in]] Dear colleagues, please calm down. It wouldn't be 2004, it wouldn't be Lithuania, you wouldn't be sitting here. Calm down! [[B in m in s a l in]] Fellow dignitaries often compare what is happening today with 2004. I have to say they're more radical. Because politics or active public life includes a new generation that requires the truth that requires prospects for itself and for the country. And that's exactly what you have to count on. And if you take away the emotion and resentment that dominates the Supreme Council, I have to say, the honourable colleagues, who, unfortunately, will remain emotional and indignant -- and that has an explanation. Because people on the street every day -- and this is the law of human masses -- these people are radicalized. And the political leaders, the leaders of the opposition at this point, must be one step more radical in order to maintain their influence in the field. But at the same time, dear colleagues, let's take a look at what's going on. First of all, the issue of government responsibility. We discussed with colleagues, and our position is also the only one that the government should be responsible for what happened. In addition, for two years in a row, people were called to Europe, convinced that everything would be normal, and then one day it turned out that they were not going there. And people came out in support of power, and they got a kick in the head. And obviously, that's what we need to be responsible for. But, dear fellows, where is the government? When dealing with this issue, there must be a government in order to maintain, at least, the regular purity of the decision. Because I'm predicting, one minute, let me tell you, you're not at the rally. You listen to smart things! Dear colleagues, if you even imagine that the decision will be taken, and I've calculated that with non-fractional votes up to 200 votes, but if you imagine that the other part will vote and the decision will be taken, I predict that tomorrow the District Administrative Court will cancel this decision as being considered worthless. So I have a proposition, let's hear it through. If there are scenarios on one side and on the other, there's nothing to talk about. And if we have one scenario of how to fix the situation, save the country, let's talk about it. Then our proposal is the following. The Supreme Council of Ukraine, first of all, invite the government, or whatever you want to call, to consider this issue and let the government know. That's the first one. The other one. To take the decision of the Supreme Council of Ukraine. We see the main contours of this decision. First. The Supreme Council should give an assessment, the Supreme Council should give a full assessment of what happened. The other one. The Supreme Council should hear a report from the Attorney General's Office on the results of the investigation and give a personal evaluation. Third. The Supreme Council, if we can't make a decision now, we won't make a decision, and in that case, you know, if we don't make a decision, we can't discuss it until the next session. So let's look at the law, read it a little bit. I understand that the revolution, but, dear fellows, must then make a proposal in this decision, a requirement, as you wish, for the President of Ukraine to decide on the responsibility of the government. Next, the President of Ukraine should hold consultations with the Supreme Council of Ukraine on the formation of the government. There are proposals: a government of national trust, a coalition government. But we understand that we need to do this in order to save the country, but we need to do it properly. Next. In the Supreme Council's Order, we need to refer once again to the President and the Supreme Council to form a delegation for the participation of the Supreme Council in the negotiations, the resumption of negotiations with the European Union and the continuation of negotiations or negotiations with the Russian Federation, but with the participation of representatives of the Supreme Council. Plus ask the question of visa-free treatment next year if Ukraine meets all the requirements. This will support the entire Ukrainian society. At the same time, the Supreme Council must make a commitment to meet all the conditions necessary to accomplish these tasks. Dear colleagues! I'm asking you, I obviously have a moral right not to argue with the situation in order to be forced into dialogue and compromise, or we'll be forced into dialogue and compromise. We in the middle of the Ukraine should demonstrate that we can find understanding and dialogue. We can and should, we are just doomed, I do not love that word, and we are obliged to do so. Today there is still a compromise field, tomorrow there will be no compromise. I'm asking you not to look, I mean, the authorities and most of us, that nothing is happening. Don't make it look like it's going to suck. Dear colleagues, don't suck it! Understand, we'll be working late, we'll have to make a surgical decision now if we're going to save the country. It's not clear, it's obvious. And other honourable colleagues, the opposition has made its demands -- you can agree with them, you can disagree, you can argue. Where are the proposals from the authorities? Where are they?
ParlaMint-UA_2013-12-03-m0.u24	Please, go ahead.
ParlaMint-UA_2013-12-03-m0.u25	I'll be done in 30 seconds. The general call "let's talk" -- not seriously and irresponsiblely, not helping and whispering, we need to do everything transparent here in the Supreme Council of Ukraine. Dear colleagues, think about it, I'm talking to those who are very hurtful for Ukraine, we actually already have two Ukraines. Note what decisions are made, if so both, if so, dear colleagues, on both sides will be in all positions and all will be satisfied. Dear colleagues, I am addressing opposition representatives, I am addressing Vitalia Klitschka, in 2004, you came here, remember how you supported the Supreme Council, and she also made decisions thanks to yours. We took pictures with you, I got pictures, you and your brother came! They gave away their boxing gloves. You supported the Supreme Council in 2004. I'm talking to Arsenius Petrovich Yatsenuk. Arsenius Petrovich, in 2004, as head of the National Bank, you knew what it was like to take responsibility for the country. I'm talking to Oleg Dragnibok, you're the one who's most worried about Ukraine. Let's talk about Ukraine now. Not about yourself! Dear colleagues, if you will, it is the cry of the soul of every person who understands that we cannot darken our minds today with emotion and stand up. I'm sure, dear colleagues, we don't need a shock, we need to save Ukraine. I'm sure that the honourable colleagues -- and that's the last -- are facing an absolute force scenario for which both sides are preparing. I have to say that you, both sides, will be responsible for this. Now scream, please!
ParlaMint-UA_2013-12-03-m0.u26	Please give me a minute to chat, Vitaly Cliché.
ParlaMint-UA_2013-12-03-m0.u27	Vladimir Mikhailovich, you mentioned me, I have the right to a replica. Very short. You know, you are. Learned to speak very well, and when I got it. That people went out to Midan to support the actions of power and got their kicks in the head, well, there's nothing more to say. That's the first one. Secondly, in 2004, I supported, not the Supreme Council, but the people of Ukraine, the Ukrainian people. [[Applause]] It's different. Thirdly, if you're going to say that you have a photograph there, so I rephotographed half the world, and that's not why I supported your actions. Thank you.
ParlaMint-UA_2013-12-03-m0.u28	Thank you. Oleg Tuggiebok, one minute.
ParlaMint-UA_2013-12-03-m0.u29	Oleg Tuggnibok, faction of the All-Ukrainian Freedom Union. Thank you, Volodymyr Mikhailovich Lithuania, for giving me the opportunity to use the right of reply. And I'd like to go to all the military Ukrainians right now, and I'd like to go to all the law enforcement officers, to the generals, to the generals, to those who still have a drop of officer honor, to those who feel the patriotic state. Do not serve that illegal banditry, move to the side of the people, stand with the people to fight the regime! [[Applause]] We fight for our rights -- national, social. We're fighting for justice, we're fighting for a businessman to be able to work in that state so that a teacher can teach children properly, so that a doctor can treat and get a decent salary so that a pensioner can live decently his last days so that young people can have a job and learn. Stand with us side-by-side to fight! Glory to Ukraine!
ParlaMint-UA_2013-12-03-m0.u30	Thank you. Honorary colleagues, in accordance with article 87 of the Constitution of Ukraine, article 231 of the Ukrainian Law on the Supreme Council of Ukraine Rules, article 13 of the Ukrainian Law on the Cabinet of Ministers, 166 of the Ukrainian National Deputies introduced a proposal to the Supreme Council of Ukraine to consider the question of the responsibility of the Cabinet of Ministers of Ukraine and the adoption of the Resolution on Distrust of the Cabinet of Ministers of Ukraine, draft Decree (Registration No. 3692). I would like to remind you, Your Honor, that article 232 of the Supreme Council of Ukraine establishes the following procedure for dealing with this issue. In order to report to the national deputy authorized by the initiators, the Office of the Ministers of Ukraine is given 45 minutes. To answer the oral question, representatives of the MPs and national deputies are provided up to 45 minutes. For the speech of the Prime Minister of Ukraine, the Rules provide up to 45 minutes for statements by representatives of the Committee and MPs for up to 3 minutes. After the discussion is over, we will make decisions. So we need to move on to this issue. Please don't shout, I can hear, don't scream! I'd like a moment from the factions to make my proposals. Please. Impact faction, one minute. Who's it gonna be? Who's it gonna be? You don't? They asked for proposals. Can I give the word to the reporter? Please, Arseny Yatzenuk, please. As far as government is concerned. The government was invited to consider the matter, but the government did not appear. The reason is, I don't know. He did not show up for consideration. So what are the proposals? I want to ask you, what are the suggestions? You don't? I give the floor to the reporter of Arsenia Petrovich Yatzenyuk. Please, one minute. Please, National Deputy Arsenius Yatzenuk.
ParlaMint-UA_2013-12-03-m0.u31	The fact that you destroyed the Ukrainian Constitution is not news. But according to the law, there must be a criminal named Azarov, a criminal named Zacharyenko, and others who directed our children to be beaten. Where's the government? The constitutional procedure requires that the premises of the Supreme Council of Ukraine be directly occupied by the Prime Minister and that he report here from the Supreme Council of Ukraine. Mr. Head! We demand that you invite Parliament here to report to Parliament and to the Ukrainian people, Prime Minister Azarov, and to provide a procedure for the consideration of the matter. Without Azarov, this procedure is illegal. We're giving you an hour, please. Let Azarov come here with his criminal government.
ParlaMint-UA_2013-12-03-m0.u32	I'm begging you. The strike faction is requesting. After a minute, please make proposals to the faction. Who's going to be the faction? National MP Sergei Kaplin. Please.
ParlaMint-UA_2013-12-03-m0.u33	The strike faction, Sergey Kaplin. Well, first of all, all Ukrainians need to know why there is no government here. Because Azarov fears those under the Supreme Council in these areas today. Because he knows that if he shows up, his car, the corral will appear near the Supreme Council, and there will be nothing left of him or the cruiser. That's the first one. The other one. Vladimir Vasilovich, I want you to go to Ephraim and have Ephraim hand over the cards to the MPs from the Party of the Regions. Because we have information that they as slaves have taken away their cards and are not allowed to vote against the government of Azar. And so we have information that during this period, 24 hours a day and night, the President's Administration died through everyone's knees without the exception of a member of the Party of Regions and forced us not to vote today. Stop this genocide over Parliament! Return the Ukrainians to Parliament and immediately the government here today! We want to hear his report.
ParlaMint-UA_2013-12-03-m0.u34	Alexander Sergiyovich, please respond to the statement made by Deputy Kaplin. People's Vice-Deputy Kyle, Freedom Union.
ParlaMint-UA_2013-12-03-m0.u35	Dear Vladimir Vasilovich, fellow MPs! If you already, Vladimir Vasilovich, have read the standards that are to be considered today, consider the resignation of the government, the resolution on resigning the government, I'm like the person who's got all the "berkutu" charms when they were protecting journalists, women and children. Protecting women and children with Andrey Mishchenk, who was brought out of the hospital today! Just as hundreds of Ukrainians who are now in the hospital have been beaten to death at the presentation of a national deputy’s certificate! I'm addressing you, Vladimir Vasilovich. To address the Barcoutu leadership, to bring the government here, using force, just as they applied against journalists, children, deputies, women, the elderly! Bring them here, too! On your knees, over here, so they can answer! Zharchenko, this murderer! What do you mean, they're gone?Oh, my God! Volodymyr Vasilovich, you are the Head of the Supreme Council, yet legitimate. I'm turning around.
ParlaMint-UA_2013-12-03-m0.u36	Finish up.
ParlaMint-UA_2013-12-03-m0.u37	Glory to Ukraine!
ParlaMint-UA_2013-12-03-m0.u38	The faction of the Party of the Regions, National Deputy Shufrich.
ParlaMint-UA_2013-12-03-m0.u39	Thank you, Reverend Vladimir Vasilovich! Dear colleagues! Well, really, it's kind of weird. You demand the Constitution, you demand the law to deal with it. And where were you when you didn't count that under the same procedure it would take 10 days for the government to prepare? Another question. Now you're talking, you're saying the government's here. So you blocked the Kabmin yourself, some can't get in, others can't get out. And why start with provocation? First of all, you had some aunts here. Now you're saying you took the cards from the Party. I'm asking you to show me your cards, do you have our cards on the spot? Please, look! All the cards are in place. You know what's important to you? Do you want to come to the taxi or do you want to draw? If you can, do it. How's that?
ParlaMint-UA_2013-12-03-m0.u40	Finish up.
ParlaMint-UA_2013-12-03-m0.u41	If you can't do it, don't start and don't make fun of people. Let the people work quietly! And the provocations won't go away, we guarantee it! Thank you.
ParlaMint-UA_2013-12-03-m0.u42	Please, a minute, no-faction Oleg Lazko.
ParlaMint-UA_2013-12-03-m0.u43	Oleg Lazko, non-fractional national MP, Radical Party. The absence of a government of shame today, the national disgrace of the government of Azarov -- a testimony that there is simply no government in Ukraine. We will consider that the government that refused to come to the Supreme Council, which refused to report to the Ukrainian people, voluntarily resigned before the Ukrainian Parliament. And so I call on all the opposition forces, let's form a national rescue government and take responsibility for the state of affairs in Ukraine. We don't need a government of cowards who's afraid to come to the Supreme Council to look people in the eye, so we can spit in their face about what they're doing. And I am addressing representatives of all the opposition forces who today greeted me with their birthdays, pushed me, almost fought. Guys! Let's just forget about all the personal ambitions, the insults, the likes, the dislikes. The only enemy we have today is the Party of Regions and President Yanukovic. Let us join forces — left, right, white, red, blue — all must rise! Everyone.
ParlaMint-UA_2013-12-03-m0.u44	Respectable national MPs, various proposals. The MPs are asking for more than a minute. Please, People's Deputy Pinzenic, faction. I'll give it to you from every faction. Please.
ParlaMint-UA_2013-12-03-m0.u45	Dear national deputies, dear colleagues! An unprecedented thing happened in Ukraine. You're talking about doing some procedural things today. The fact that each of you had the opportunity to see, I don't think any of you could have left a single person indifferent. The State Institute, whose task is to protect people, to ensure the rule of law, has beaten our Ukrainian citizens, children. It wasn't "Berkut" in France, it wasn't "Berkut" in another country, it was "Berkut" in Ukrainian. I'm surprised to hear the President's statement or the Prime Minister's statement about what some Berkut beat up. Sorry, these institutions are subordinated to the authorities. And today all of us who have the feeling that they have no right to be in a civilized country must make a decision. We have no right to accept this; tomorrow your children, your brothers, and your sisters will be there, for this question cannot leave no one indifferent. That's why I'm proposing, dear colleagues.
ParlaMint-UA_2013-12-03-m0.u46	Finish up.
ParlaMint-UA_2013-12-03-m0.u47	The government has to be here because it's a messy responsibility, I don't even want to talk about the economy today, it's not about it, it's about what you have to say: So in 20 minutes there must be a government here, and everyone who has a conscience must vote in favour of the resignation of today’s government.
ParlaMint-UA_2013-12-03-m0.u48	Dear National MPs, National Deputy Sass, Fatherland faction.
ParlaMint-UA_2013-12-03-m0.u49	Thank you. Mr. Chairman, this was a matter of procedural purity. So I would like to remind you of the requirements of part three of article 6, on the basis of which one third of the people's deputies may require not to invite, as you say, but to require the presence of any official other than the President. So I ask you to put to the vote a requirement that there be a full-fledged government in the session room to address this issue. Thank you for your attention.
ParlaMint-UA_2013-12-03-m0.u50	Please, from Freedom, who's speaking? From "Freedom" the People's MP of Peace.
ParlaMint-UA_2013-12-03-m0.u51	Alexander Mirny, the All-Ukrainian Freedom Union. Volodymyr Vasilovich, a perfectly sound legal proposal, sobering up: we demand that the government be put to the vote for the immediate arrival of the government here. Because when Mr. Nestor tells us that we can't fall, how he got here in the hall, how 411 people's deputies got into the hall. They came in, presented a certificate, and were missed! So please, let us put the honourable ones to the vote, let us not turn on the rear and let the hare not run away from the answer. Please vote and make a decision. Thank you, Mr. Vladimir.
ParlaMint-UA_2013-12-03-m0.u52	I'll be with you in a minute. Please.
ParlaMint-UA_2013-12-03-m0.u53	Ladies and gentlemen, the plan is perfectly clear. Don't invite the government to resign. It's like there's going to be a victory, but according to the law, in the absence of a government, any Handy Court of Viktor Yanukovic will cancel our ruling. It's understandable why there's no government here. That's why we're addressing you, leading the government in secret basements, which are between the Cabinet of Ministers of Ukraine and the Supreme Council, let them pass as rats, if they're afraid of the people of Ukraine, and put questions to the vote in accordance with the Constitution.
ParlaMint-UA_2013-12-03-m0.u54	Please, from the faction of the Party of Regions who? None. There are no Communists. Ladies and gentlemen, a proposal has been made. From the Party of the Regions, National Deputy Bondar. Wait a minute. Please.
ParlaMint-UA_2013-12-03-m0.u55	Dear colleagues, distinguished national MPs, Reverend Volodymyr Mikhailovich! Dear friends, I'm addressing you now with the position of most of the major MPs who are sitting in this part of the room. We see a situation that is unfolding today. The situation is very difficult. What we're now asking about the government's mistrust, the resignation, this question will be dealt with unequivocally. You all understand, the hall understands this 100 percent if you're honest. The position, if we bring this question up, come on, listen, I want to say smart things, we won't be able to deal with the issue of resigning the government for a year. This time. The other one. Because according to the Constitution, we can't go back to that question after that. The other one. Instead of solving the two issues that Majdan has raised, it's the responsibility of the people who have made decisions about the events in Maidan, we've translated it into government. We first need to hear the Attorney-General's report and the events that have taken place and the decision of the Supreme Council to question the personal responsibility of those who have given the team and who have taken the decision. Second, why did Midan get up? I got up because we're back on the Euro integration course. So these events that are happening today are driving us away.
ParlaMint-UA_2013-12-03-m0.u56	Finish up, finish up.
ParlaMint-UA_2013-12-03-m0.u57	We're being driven back to Russia. Because today's events are what we're giving. We cut ourselves off from talking to the European Union. Today we need to go back to negotiations with the European Union. There is the President's position on this matter. He commissioned the government to start negotiations. [[B in m in s a l in]] And if we're now being accused of not being a government, that we've brought the situation to a bloody battle, then we're just going to jump to the point where Russia is going to devour us, split the country, and put the country in a situation where there's no government, there's not going to be a parliament next to the government, we're going to follow. The country will fall into the elections for a year, then the presidential elections and the countries will not. That's why I'm asking you today.
ParlaMint-UA_2013-12-03-m0.u58	You haven't been a deputy yet.
ParlaMint-UA_2013-12-03-m0.u59	Sit down, I'll put the MPs to the vote. But it was twice that they all spoke. Ladies and gentlemen, may I have your attention? [[B in m in s a l in]] Well, you made an offer. I'll have to give everyone else for you then. Replica, please, Pinzenic.
ParlaMint-UA_2013-12-03-m0.u60	Ladies and gentlemen, let us abide by our laws. This issue does not require a vote. In accordance with the requirements of the Rules, the Cabinet of Ministers should be present in the Hall. You don't have to vote. Invite them here to the Supreme Council of Ukraine. The second is what I want to point out. Dear colleagues, I'm in favour of us settling the problem. Today, the issue of government responsibility is one step towards resolving problems. And if we want to solve the problems that have arisen in the country, let's start solving them. We urge not to vote, but now to demand the presence of the Supreme Council of the Government of Ukraine.
ParlaMint-UA_2013-12-03-m0.u61	Dear National Deputies! There were a few suggestions. And there was an offer to invite the government. [[B in m in s a l in]] Oh, no? It was suggested that the National MPs be required to invite the government for today’s full - time plenary meeting. Is that a proposition? [[B in m in s a l in]] Have a seat, please. What are those screams? One more minute from the factions, please. It's a faction. So let's figure out, because there are different proposals! Please, National Deputy Rosenko. I want everyone's attention!
ParlaMint-UA_2013-12-03-m0.u62	Paul Rosenco, Vitaly Caller's Faction. I would like to emphasize once again what my colleague Pinzenik said. There is no need for any separate decisions, there is a Supreme Council regulation that requires that when considering the issue of the resignation of the government, the government should be present here. And I want to go to my fellow national MPs from the faction of the regions. Don't think about stalling! Don't think about it getting all wet and it's all going to go away! It won't go away! We haven't summoned people around the Supreme Council today -- 200,000 stands. Come and see! Come on, look at the street, don't suck it! And your proposals -- other working groups, different special commissions -- don't need to be delayed. We demand decisions today, concrete decisions. And, first, by the resignation of the government. We have today as the Supreme Council to vote on this.
ParlaMint-UA_2013-12-03-m0.u63	So the impact faction made a proposal requiring the government to invite the government here to consider the issue. Is that how you brought it? [[B in m in s a l in]] I'm telling you again, I was listening to Rosenck say. [[B in m in s a l in]] Yeah, that's right. Please, the faction of the Party of Regions, the offer.
ParlaMint-UA_2013-12-03-m0.u64	Dear colleagues! To be honest, I'm even more surprised by our so-called opposition. One says that there is no voting today, no votes, another says that we vote, that is, you have votes and you have to vote. I am now addressing everyone who hears us outside the Supreme Council of Ukraine. If those leaders who immediately invited you to Midan are ready to vote, let them vote. But they themselves take time. We're allowing you to vote in two minutes if you're capable of it, and if you're incompetent, don't lie to the people on Maidan. Because you are not capable of anything right now, and this confirms your inability to unite and produce anything that is necessary for people. Deception and provocation are the only things you can do. But I'm going to disappoint you: we're now supporting the vote on the invitation.
ParlaMint-UA_2013-12-03-m0.u65	Ladies and gentlemen, let's all calm down. The first was the proposal: according to the Constitution, the government should be present when it comes to this issue, which is one proposal. I'm formulating it so I can put it to a vote. Second sentence of the National MP: To consider matters, to make decisions. Is that a proposition? [[B in m in s a l in]] I wrote it down, don't shout! His offer, not your offer. Now, what's the offer, please, of the Freedom Union? What do you put to the vote, which one of you? Please, the People's Deputies of the Magnificent.
ParlaMint-UA_2013-12-03-m0.u66	Oleg Knaczykki, the All-Ukrainian Freedom Union. Vladimir Vasilovich, you're wrong: not to invite the government, but to call it here, because we've approved, made decisions, and we're considering the responsibility of the government. And it's not the Supreme Council that comes from government. And I'm addressing the Ukrainian people because there's no point in talking to Parliament because today Parliament has shown that it's not there because the government has despised Parliament and has despised even the faction that has shaped it. Today, the Party of Regions is covered by the Rules, today they have turned to the Rules, which state that the responsibility of the government can only be considered a year later, and until then they have been in violation of the Rules. Remember, then, that you are not protected by the Rules. You were chosen by the people, and the government was delegating. The people were delegating. And today the people are talking about the resignation of this government. And if the government doesn't want to resign, then go to world history when dictators were put on knives. And if today.
ParlaMint-UA_2013-12-03-m0.u67	Finish up. Are they done? I'm asking you, Turkinov, Fatherland faction, a motion for a vote. Please.
ParlaMint-UA_2013-12-03-m0.u68	Here from the rostrum, Mr. Shufrich tortured the hysteria. I want to say to the Party of the Regions, your support that you've been gathering over the period of time, putting a scene at the Marian Palace at night, and now there's 500 aunts and 5,000 berkuta. Here's all your support! That's the first one. [[Applause]] The other one. Today, there is a peaceful way to solve the problem. The beginning of this problem is the resignation of the government of Azarov along with Zacharychenko and the bagel. If you do not want to solve this problem peacefully, it will be solved by the people of Ukraine without asking you. You have a chance, I'm addressing the members of the Party of Regions, in a peaceful way to solve the problem. We demand immediately, 15 minutes -- to get from government to parliament. 15 minutes from now, Azarov, Zacharychenko and others will be voting in 15 minutes. Thank you.
ParlaMint-UA_2013-12-03-m0.u69	Yes, Fatherland. The faction of the Communist Party of Ukraine. None. Ladies and gentlemen, there are two proposals that I will put to the vote. [[B in m in s a l in]] Turn it on. Turn on the Yatzenuk microphone.
ParlaMint-UA_2013-12-03-m0.u70	Here's the deal. In accordance with the Law on the Rules, when considering the mistrust of the Cabinet of Ministers, the Prime Minister must be present, as provided by law. But as the opposition demands that in the Supreme Council's premises, in the consideration of this issue, the entire composition of the Cabinet of Ministers of Ukraine be present, we demand that we put to the vote the issue of the challenge to the Supreme Council of Ukraine of the entire Cabinet of Ministers of Ukraine. This decision requires 150 votes of the national deputies. [[Applause]] Vote!
ParlaMint-UA_2013-12-03-m0.u71	I'll bet you a vote. [[B in m in s a l in]] Call on the government of Ukraine, call on the government of Ukraine. [[B in m in s a l in]] Ladies and gentlemen, according to the Rules, I will read out the proposal, as you have made. Listen calmly. In accordance with part three of article 6 of the Rules, I am voting on the proposal for an invitation to today's plenary meeting of Prime Minister Mikola Janović Azarov of Ukraine and members of the Cabinet of Ministers of Ukraine. Understand? [[B in m in s a l in]] We're going to vote now, and so am I. I don't know how long it's gonna take us to get together. I'm betting on the vote on this proposal. People's deputies, please vote. [[11:29:26]] For 368 Next. Honorable National MPs, 368. Against - 0, held - 0 did not vote - 27. Decision taken. The factions. Region Party – 147, Fatherland –89, Vitalia Klicka – 40, Freedom – 35, Company – 31, non-fractional – 26. At 12 o'clock, honourable national deputies, let's continue our meeting. At 12 o'clock.
ParlaMint-UA_2013-12-03-m0.u72	Dear National Deputies! I'm asking you to sit down. I'd like you to invite the people's deputies into the hall. [[B in m in s a l in]] Dear National Deputies! We're continuing our meeting. [[B in m in s a l in]] What, what? Ladies and gentlemen, we have agreed with you to continue our consideration of the matter. I will now give the floor to the bill's author, Arsenija Petrovich Yatzenyuk, five minutes. We made a deal. Five minutes. Within five minutes, the chairman of the committee dealing with this issue will give the Prime Minister of Ukraine Mikola Janovich Azarov a word and three minutes from the factions. And let's move on to the decision on this issue. That is why I am asking for Arsenius Petrovich Yatsenuk’s report. Please.
ParlaMint-UA_2013-12-03-m0.u73	Dear Ukrainian people! The time has come, the time has come to act. This government assumed responsibility for the country’s destiny, and the day came for this government and this president. First. This Cabinet of Ministers of Ukraine is personally responsible for beating up children in Maidan. And for that, he's a disgrace! [[Applause]] The other one. This Cabinet of Ministers of Ukraine, along with Viktor Yanukovitch, are personally responsible for selling Ukraine to the Russian Federation and killing millions of Ukrainians for the future of Europe. And for that you're ashamed. Third. This Cabinet of Ministers of Ukraine was responsible for the economic disaster that Ukraine experienced, so much so that Ukraine became bankrupt with Prime Minister Azarov and President Yanukovich. Our demand is clear. The resignation of the government of Azar. Presidential and parliamentary elections. This is no longer a demand for Ukrainian opposition, it is the demand of millions of Ukrainians who have gone out on the street for their rights, for their future. And they argue in Ukraine that the authorities, in accordance with the Constitution of Ukraine, belong to the people of Ukraine, not Yanukovich, Azarov and all others. And the rest of us are talking first to the Party of Regions and non-factionals. If you do not vote for the resignation of the government of Azarov, you are personally responsible for the blood of the children in Maidan, for the economic disaster in the country, and for the sale of Ukraine to another foreign state. In that case, if the Parliament does not vote on the resignation of Prime Minister Azarov and the entire Cabinet of Ministers of Ukraine, we are going to demand that President Viktor Yanukovich's Administration send an order to Yanukovic to resign the government of Azarov and announce the presidential and parliamentary elections for the term. And we're blocking the premises of the Supreme Council of Ukraine. It's a peaceful protest. Citizens are fighting for their rights, and we will have this right to prove that people can win. Glory to Ukraine!
ParlaMint-UA_2013-12-03-m0.u74	Thank you. Who will report from the committee? Is it? Is there no need? There's no need. Okay. I give the floor to Prime Minister Mikola Janovich Azarov of Ukraine. Five minutes, please.
ParlaMint-UA_2013-12-03-m0.u75	Ladies and gentlemen of the people! The deeply respected people of Ukraine! In this difficult moment, I address you and ask you to listen to me. My dear colleagues, first of all on behalf of the Government, I would like to apologize for the actions of our law enforcement agencies in Maidan. [[B in m in s a l in]] Both the President and the Government deeply regret that this has happened.
ParlaMint-UA_2013-12-03-m0.u76	I guarantee you that a thorough video-fixing investigation is already under way, bearing in mind the testimony. And all those responsible for the use of force will be held responsible. During the last days, Saturday, Sunday, Monday and today, law enforcement agencies have not resorted to violence, nor have they used force to maintain order. During the intervention of certain forces at the Presidential Office building, they were deprived of all means of impact, and strict instructions were given not to use force. Dear People's Deputies! Dear people of Ukraine! Look, 162 injured police officers. [[B in m in s a l in]] 92 persons were hospitalized with severe injuries. 92 people! [[B in m in s a l in]] Now, about the incident that happened on the night of Friday on Saturday. The issue of the detailed investigation of the incident is still ahead. We already have a list of all the victims, I guarantee you that there is only one person aged 17 on this list, all the others older and much older. That is why I propose, first of all, to give up emotion and follow the letter of the law. The law is the European way. The second point that Yatsenuk sounded here was that the Party of Regions, the President and the Government had sold Ukraine to Russia. My dears, tell us who sold Ukraine when he entered into a bonded gas contract with Russia, which in fact put Ukraine on its knees, which brought back Ukraine's financial and economic system, three and a half years ago, the President and the Government endured this pressure, this terrible financial dictatorship. But we have the strength, and they have come to a limit, my dears, to the limit. The country can't take any more than $800 million each month, it can't, it can't, it can't go anywhere. This raises the question of who put Ukraine on its knees, us who do our best to pull Ukraine out of our knees or those who have signed the agreement. Second. The President of Ukraine and our Party of the Regions have embarked on a European integration course, for three and a half years we have prepared documents, negotiated and led this to realization. Today, the President and the Government have clearly reaffirmed their commitment to the course of European integration. Yesterday, in my presence, the President of Ukraine had a long telephone conversation with the President of the European Commission, Barroso. We agreed that we would continue to negotiate the terms and conditions of the Free Trade Area Agreement. Believe me, this is the fate of Ukraine, its future, and we must. And the European Commission, the European Union as a whole, agrees to consider Ukraine's financial compensation, and we must survive this most difficult struggle. Therefore, the Government's responsible delegation will be sent to Brussels by next week and will hold negotiations. Yesterday, however, Barroso instructed the head of the Permanent Mission of Mr. Tombinski to organize the visit. During that time, we met with all the leading ambassadors of the European Union. I met them yesterday. They made it clear to me that the blockade of State institutions' buildings, the Cabinet of Ministers, is not the path to European integration. This is the path to dictatorship. This is the path of violence that they release. And here, in this room, I categorically demand that all who are involved in making totally wrongful, illegal decisions to block the government building cease immediately. You'll have to be responsible. And all the people you push into wrongdoing will be held accountable. There are literate lawyers in your ranks. There are specialists in your ranks. They are well aware that your actions not only violate the Constitution of Ukraine, not only by the laws of Ukraine, but also directly violate the Penal Code. We are therefore open to dialogue, ready to discuss with peaceful manifestations all the conditions of our agreements. We reached out to you. If we meet a fist, I'm telling you frankly, we have enough power. The millions referred to by Yatsenuk also rely on the vast majority of the people of Ukraine. Most regional councils were held yesterday, representing three quarters of the population of Ukraine. They required the Government to establish order, to continue the course of democratic transformation, to integrate Europe. We're in this together with those fair manifestos, those honest demonstrators who went out to the square. And first of all, I'm talking to them, we're reaching out to you, drop the politicians. Politicians go to power. Repeated or attempting to repeat the 2004 scenario. But they forget that we have a different country now. What a way for you to integrate if you use such methods of action. We stand, but you will be ashamed, and who will you continue to work with, please?
ParlaMint-UA_2013-12-03-m0.u77	Finish up, Mikola Janović. Finish up.
ParlaMint-UA_2013-12-03-m0.u78	Next important question. And now for just two minutes, my dears, I explain why we were forced to make such a difficult decision.
ParlaMint-UA_2013-12-03-m0.u79	The more you scream, the more you instill confidence and tranquillity in me. I'm not afraid of your threats either. I'm telling you, try to convince me with these arguments. I'll tell you what. The situation in Ukraine has indeed been complicated. But it didn't get complicated because Yatsenuk said it got complicated because of a series of factors. First, we faced a world recession. This is a serious factor that serious professionals understand and appreciate. We could have held up the situation, but it was very difficult to keep it under such gas prices.
ParlaMint-UA_2013-12-03-m0.u80	Second. We had a serious downturn, especially with the Russian Federation, and this is the production of our machinery factories, and people said to us, "What do you want us to do, go out into the street and get out of work?" We understand that very well. Therefore, we told our European partners frankly: "Let us sit at the negotiating table. Think about how much help you can give us. Help us, as we say, with the International Monetary Fund." We were promised. Of course, it wasn't some mythical tens of billions. This is the cost of modernizing Ukraine, which we hope to make through, above all, investment. In these circumstances, we had to restore trade and economic relations with Russia. The pause is forced. Second. We have actually agreed with Russia to establish a tripartite form of negotiations with the European Union. Why do we need a triangular format? Because the European Union must consider the conditions that Russia has put forward, and we must find a common language, a common understanding. As soon as that happens, we sign the agreement. Now. Your statements are now weakening Ukraine's international positions, and they are greatly weakening in this difficult situation. Finally, the last thing I wanted to say. Those who push you to block the Cabinet of Ministers' building, either completely irresponsible people, adventurers, or people who don't understand the specifics of the government. The building has the Ministry of Finance, the Ministry of the Economy, and is used to conduct daily financial and cash payments operations throughout Ukraine. Think about it. The wages of any teacher, doctor, ambulance work, schools depend on the functioning of the Government. The Government is forced to make decisions every day. What are you doing? I asked the ambassador yesterday, I'm saying, "Mr. Ambassador, well, would you tell me if the federal chancellor's office or the Bundestag were blocked?" He says that this is not a European path, we have a parliamentary democracy, we have a democracy, it's impossible. So if we're saying we're European, why do we have that, I'm asking you?
ParlaMint-UA_2013-12-03-m0.u81	Therefore, dear friends, I had already passed when the Cabinet of Ministers was blocked, and I was unhappy to run the government, and I served when you blocked the building in 2004. You managed to organize the work, but then what did we get? And then, in 2008-2009, we had a disaster when the bracelet collapsed when the prices went up. That's what you want for the people of Ukraine!? I'll do everything I can to avoid rising prices, rising housing and utility tariffs, devaluation of the bracelet. I'll keep my support for the farmers. Ukraine will stand and grow. Thank you for your attention. Good night.
ParlaMint-UA_2013-12-03-m0.u82	Thank you. Dear National Deputies! Please sign up for the factions and then we'll make a decision. Please sign up. It's Vitaly Call's Faction. Who's speaking? Vitaly Klitschko, leader of the Vitaly Klitschko faction, is speaking.
ParlaMint-UA_2013-12-03-m0.u83	I want to address every Ukrainian. We've heard many times about improvements, we've heard very good things about. integration into the European Union, which we will have no corruption, that we will not have the power of power that will make Ukraine a better place to live. We have been told this for many years. They say you can listen. Sadly, though, nothing is happening. European integration. We had hope, the hope of changing the rules of the game in the country that Ukraine would live better. We were talking about European integration. We know on what grounds, on what conditions the Ukrainians live on. Europeans live. We demanded the same standards, and we had the hope of signing Euro integration. We will be the same country, and we will undergo reforms like in Poland, the Czech Republic, Slovakia and Hungary. Sadly, the week before the signing, the deal was broken. The collapse of Euro-Integration is a national betrayal. Then the issue of compensation began. No question of compensation was raised in three years, and they arose in a week. Then there was an astronomical increase of 160 billion euros. From where? Then, when Ukrainians, children, students came out of Europe, with Ukrainian flags to stand up for their desire to live in a European country, this government and these government officials chased these guys away. You've seen these images on TV. I'm sure. I have clear confidence, and most Ukrainians, who are going to the venues in Kiev, Lviv, Cherniv, in all places, almost Donetsk, come out with one requirement: resigning this government, because he promises a lot, he's lying. And we have a clear requirement: the resignation of the government, the resignation of the President. Because today we are tired of hearing promises and beautiful words. Nothing's going on, corruption's going on. Did Mr. Azarov say? I think he's stretching his hand. Did you know that half the Ukrainians have already stretched their legs out of your hand? [[Applause]] That's why our clear position: the breakdown of Euro-integration and the actions that have taken place today towards the Ukrainians is the face of this power, that's state betrayal, and that's the demand for this resignation.
ParlaMint-UA_2013-12-03-m0.u84	I'm asking for the Freedom Union, National Deputy Alexander Sich. Please.
ParlaMint-UA_2013-12-03-m0.u85	Dear Mr. Head! Honorable fellow MPs, distinguished fellow countrymen! We have a government-bankroat sitting in front of us. The decline in industrial production is 5.6 percent compared to the same period of the previous year. The Treasury’s sovereign debt and local government debt amounted to 90 billion. On November 1st of this year, it's just 410 million worth of treasure. External lending is $100 billion. Payable debt is one billion. And instead of resigning today, the government is covered in falsehood, deceit, and dictatorship. This government called itself a government of professionals and even wrote through a few fs, but it's actually a government of non-professionals. Because if there is a reason to calculate the economic indicators during the course of Euro-integration, then it would have to be done in a year, in a half year, but not in a week. So today, you, Mikola Janovich, have personally caused a major geopolitical defeat to Ukraine. And because of you today, perhaps you'll be turned upside down for a stranger to Ukraine's Russian Empire, but your own. And instead of resigning again and admitting your defeat and non-professionalism, you're trying to introduce a dictatorship. You're throwing "Berkut" at defenseless singing children! You are demeaning their dignity! You beat journalists, you put them on their knees, you put them on their knees to honor these monsters in uniforms! And you came here today and you dare threaten us?Oh, my God! If you have any honour left, but I don't think you understand that concept and that it's foreign, if you're engaged in a word of fornication about Euro-integration today, you should know that in every decent European country, such a government is resigning immediately and voluntarily. Stand down! Glory to Ukraine!
ParlaMint-UA_2013-12-03-m0.u86	The Fatherland faction. Who's speaking? National MP Sergei Sobolev, please.
ParlaMint-UA_2013-12-03-m0.u87	You know, for the first time in this rostrum, I can't say "honorable." Because there were different governments in Ukraine: there were governments of the ignorant, there were governments of the thieves, but there were no bloody governments in Ukraine. But what's even worse is that it's not just a bloody government, it's a government, it's a government, it's a government, it's a government, it's a government, it's a government, it's a government, it's a government! Mikola Janović, in the last 15 years you have held senior positions in the state: First Vice Prime Minister, Prime Minister, Minister of Finance. Over the years, the country has lost millions of jobs, and in these years, the country has been deformed, and in these years, you have done everything you can to destroy the gold reserves in the country. But it's not even scary! Mikola Janovich, if you have a drop of conscience, the first thing you should have done was punish the minister of internal affairs, the Gestapoman, who gave the order to kill people in fact, because they miraculously survived. But I have one question for you: "And were you present at the President's meeting, where it was decided to beat the students?" Bully! Why didn't you come up against it? Mikola Janovich, you have one last chance: to stand up here, not sit down!). Going out on this rostrum, repenting and saying, "This is the biggest mistake of my life. How much did I steal? Forgive me. What I did with the state, forgive me." But what's shed human blood is the scariest thing you've ever done in this country! That is why today is the crucial moment. You know, I have nothing to say to the opposition. I don't want to go to the Communists who were yelling yesterday that they were going to vote in favour of resigning this government. You are personally, regionally, responsible for every person's blood. And when your Prime Minister justifies that you see there was only one 17-year-old boy on the second bloody Sunday, then you can kill everyone. 17 years old? Mikola Janovich! You have one last moment in your life. You can now declare your resignation and get out of this room, everyone will understand that. This will be understood by millions of Ukrainians. But I know you're not capable of this because you've chosen another way, but the people of Ukraine won't understand this path, whatever language you're speaking here, whatever criminal orders you're giving, have gone a number of minutes. Glory to Ukraine!
ParlaMint-UA_2013-12-03-m0.u88	The faction of the Party of the Regions, National Deputy Vladimir Olijnik. Please.
ParlaMint-UA_2013-12-03-m0.u89	Pay taxes in Ukraine, and Ukrainians will live like Germans. This is the first thesis. Dear Vladimir Vasilovich! Dear Mikola Janovich! Dear colleagues! [[B in m in s a l in]] Of course, there are, there will be, and there will be. Only the lazy one does not criticize the government. And the authorities are responsible for everything. And we will give a political and legal assessment of those events that took place on Saturday. But you too must accept and repent of those events! Because, in the events that took place on Saturday. Because when you come out of this rostrum and condemn authority, you have to tell Ukrainian mothers, society first, and where were you from 4 to 5 in the morning? If you slept in warm beds, what dreams did you have when you took the children out of the street and threw them away? Why were they not with them? For if you were with them and had immunity, you would probably do anything to avoid such consequences. Now you're talking about resigning the government. I'd understand if your leaders would come out here and say we're ready to take responsibility for the economic, social and government situation. I'd have figured that out. But unfortunately, you're asking a question today -- giving up on principle, the worse the better. And with such good intentions, you pave the way for the Ukrainians to hell. Because you realize today that the government that has resigned will carry out its duties. But it's another government. And the question is to provide a sufficiently fragile economic, political, social situation. You're not responsible for this. That is why we will not support the resignation of the government. Because it's a stupid decision. And that's a decision that's gonna put us in a jam. Do you need big shocks? So I'll be honest with you, Ukraine doesn't need you. Ukraine needs stability, Ukraine needs calm and legal order. But you cannot provide it, for the Lord God has not given you wisdom. And that's why I'm telling you, today we're not going to support the resignation of the government, because this decision in this situation is dangerous and can bring great social benefits.
ParlaMint-UA_2013-12-03-m0.u90	The faction of the Ukrainian Company, leader of the Peter Simonenko faction.
ParlaMint-UA_2013-12-03-m0.u91	Dear citizens of Ukraine! I address, first of all, our ordinary citizens, the laborers who seek the truth today and at every inhabited place, and come to seek the truth in Kiev. We Communists believe that the government of Azar is clearly deserving of retirement. He deserves to be retired as a result of what concerns you today. You have been brought to Kiev today by the problem of total unemployment in our country, the closure of businesses, the reduction of production, and the possibility of making honest money. And especially in terms of machine building, light industry, export volume is shrinking. 50 percent of our businesses are damaged. And all this means to you, laborers, that a clear perspective is only because of the destruction of the economy to unemployment and poverty. Moreover, both external and internal debt increases. And this is the result of this shameful policy of the oligarchs. This means that the State refuses to finance and support those categories that desperately need it. Once again, I would like to draw attention to the increasing debt of wages, the closing of schools and hospitals. I draw attention to the fact that the conclusions that have not been drawn from Ukraine's introduction to the World Trade Organization, the promises of Azarov are not being fulfilled by those given by the Party of Regions during the elections, and corruption is growing. We would like to hear from the Prime Minister and about when and by whom the decision to start negotiations with the EU has been made. Who was in the task force? How was the negotiation process controlled? And how, and who consented to the initialling of an untranslated agreement? And you demand that this be sanctified, I address you gentlemen in orange. I would also like to point out that our position of faction is precisely that we are defending the interests of 45 million citizens, not your planned struggle for the throne of the President. And that's the truth you should know, our hardworking men. With respect to the draft decision. This is the project you've decided. I appeal to you, Your Honor, you've done everything you can to keep the Company faction from voting for it. I'll tell you what, I'll tell you what, wait! You wrote here in resignation just because you didn't sign the contract, and the Company faction for over a year warned that you couldn't sign this agreement, and you, knowing that, did it in such a way that you didn't protect the interests of 45 million, but you did it to protect the interests of only the clans. What needs to be done. The faction of the Company prepared this bill. There are already 33 signatures here, please sign, the faction will now vote with you, and it says here why you have to resign. I read: "After considering, in accordance with article 87 of the Constitution, the question of the responsibility of the government for the socio-economic situation in the country and.
ParlaMint-UA_2013-12-03-m0.u92	Finish up.
ParlaMint-UA_2013-12-03-m0.u93	And considering that the Cabinet of Ministers of Ukraine has failed to satisfactorily implement the powers imposed on it by the Constitution of Ukraine has not addressed the serious shortcomings that the Supreme Council has repeatedly called attention to, in grave violation of the requirements of article 85 of the Constitution of Ukraine, has not yet submitted to the consideration and approval of the Supreme Council of Ukraine a programme of its activities, has counted a well-favourable treaty for the State on association membership and accession of Ukraine to the zone of free trade with the EU and the failure to fulfil its obligations under the approval of the Prime Minister of Ukraine. The Supreme Council decides: to put forward the mistrust of the Cabinet of Ministers, which in accordance with part four of article 115 of the Constitution of Ukraine is the result of its resignation." Here are 33 signatures of the factions. Please sign, sign and we'll vote. Thank you.
ParlaMint-UA_2013-12-03-m0.u94	Ladies and gentlemen, I give the floor to the Prime Minister of Ukraine. One minute. Please.
ParlaMint-UA_2013-12-03-m0.u95	Dear people's deputies, dear fellow citizens, 24 years in politics. I have come across my dear friends that there are only two political forces in Ukraine: the political power of creation and the political power of destruction. And these two forces are constantly fighting each other without allowing the people of Ukraine to develop. And right now, the force of destruction is trying to trick us out of the right way. Sobolev spoke. He said there was supposed to be a meeting with the President. It's a complete lie. There was no meeting of the President and no decision was taken. And I didn't take part in it. I can guarantee one thing to the people's deputies, our people's deputies, that I will draw firm conclusions from what has happened and that strong personnel changes will be made in the Government. Thank you.
ParlaMint-UA_2013-12-03-m0.u96	Ladies and gentlemen, I'd like to speak with you for a minute.
ParlaMint-UA_2013-12-03-m0.u97	The Ukrainian opposition wants to make an official statement. We're ready to vote in favour of the Communist project. Let's make a decision here!
ParlaMint-UA_2013-12-03-m0.u98	Dear National Deputies! [[B in m in s a l in]] Let's move on to making a decision. I am voting on the draft Supreme Council of Ukraine Resolution No.3692 on the responsibility of the Cabinet of Ministers of Ukraine and the adoption of the Resolution on Distrust of the Cabinet of Ministers – for adoption as a whole. People's deputies, please vote. [[13:29:37]] For 186 Against 5, held – 12, not voted – 135. It's a total of 338. The decision is not taken. The factions, please. Region Party - 1, Parenthood - 90, Vitalia Klicka - 42, Freedom - 36, Company - 0, non-fractional - 17. As far as this decision is concerned, it must be registered. Sign and we'll look into it. [[B in m in s a l in]] Ladies and gentlemen, let's move on to the first reading of the bill. [[B in m in s a l in]] Ladies and gentlemen, I declare the session closed in the morning.
