ParlaMint-UA_2013-10-09-m0.u1	Good morning, distinguished national deputies. Please calm down and prepare for registration. Turn on the "Race" system. [[10:01:04]] Registered in 368 National Deputies. The morning session of the Supreme Council of Ukraine is open. Ladies and gentlemen, may I have your attention? May I have your attention, Your Honor? Today, in Ukraine, with an official visit, is His Majesty, the House of Representatives of Ireland’s Parliament, Sean Barrett. There's a tall guest in the session room right now. Let's welcome a distinguished guest, wish him a successful stay in our country and a bright impression from the hospitable Ukrainian land. [[Applause]] Dear colleagues, in accordance with article 25 of the Rules, we have 30 minutes on Wednesday for speeches by national deputies with proposals, announcements, statements, and messages. People's deputies please sign up for the speech. Here comes the recording. Please sign up. The Vitalia Klitschka faction, National Deputy Heratschenko. To whom do you give the word?
ParlaMint-UA_2013-10-09-m0.u2	Scissor.
ParlaMint-UA_2013-10-09-m0.u3	Please.
ParlaMint-UA_2013-10-09-m0.u4	Good morning! Congratulations, fellows of honor! N.O.R.R.R.A.R.R.A.R.R.D.D., 97 constituency, Kyiv district, Brovary city. Today I wanted to talk to you about corruption. It's like the abstract thing that we used to do every day, that we have all the problems because of her. But I wanted to talk about, on a case-by-case basis, what it is. So in my district, there was this state-owned radiotransmitter company that had 115 acres of land almost in the center of the city, government property. So behind the equipment that was turned by the state-owned by the courts, literally in three or four months of the land industry of 95 hectares turned into agriculture. Next. The government has made 48 citizens happy - 2 hectares of land. Literally, in three days they all ended up in the same company. And three more days later, the company turned to the land for a change of purpose on the land of industry. It seemed a simple thing, and the market value of these lands was about 200 million dollars. So corruption is not an abstract thing. Corruption is hundreds of millions of dollars lost daily on hundreds of such instruments in this country. And, most importantly, why is this happening? From our indifference to you, from the indifference of the law enforcement agencies, to the irresponsibility. Because no prosecutor, police, S.B.I., or judge is responsible for this. And now I'm going to point it out. Half of you are majors. You, like me, get an address every day from the citizens. Write to the authorities of the state, local self - government, and receive receipts that there are no funds in the budget. Remember, think about why they're not here. And ask yourself a question, what did you do to make that money there? Did you write a letter or a request to the Henprosecutor's Office? Or are you talking to the attorney generals, the judges and the militia, who close their eyes and let it happen? I'm asking you to think about something that might change what's going on in our country. Thank you.
ParlaMint-UA_2013-10-09-m0.u5	Thank you. The Fatherland faction, National Deputy Alexander Kugel.
ParlaMint-UA_2013-10-09-m0.u6	Dear Volodymira Vasilovich, distinguished colleagues, a distinguished, distinguished people of Ukraine! As the "Fatherland" faction, we want to draw the attention of the entire society, the whole of Ukraine, all who care about the future fate of our nation, to the fact that today only one person stands the fate of the whole country. Everyone's asking me this morning to call: "Alexandra Volodymyrna, to every member of the Fatherland, to every MP who's inside today. With concern about Ukraine's future, what happens next, will the decision be signed on July Timoshenko?" We want to remind you that today's decision depends on one person you've chosen, who is the leader of your party. And today there are good reasons not to manipulate, there is good reason for him to sign a pardon order. Mrs. Herman talks very often about his mercy. Thus, article six merely speaks of deep mercy. How much mercy your leader has now awaited the whole country. And we want Julia Volodymyrna to believe, for many today stand in prayer for this man to sign this decree. Secondly, I would like to pay attention, so quietly in this room there was talk about the situation that happened in Minsk. I faced this situation in 2009, when I was appointed the second head of the Enterprise. Imagine my surprise when I returned to the committee, and the program I left behind in 2003 was private. I've had two conclusions: the BSC and the Academy of Sciences that are in the program, you listen, you're entrepreneurs, you're in a program where your property registration, and who owns it, the name of the enterprise and the directors, is the intervention of third parties. We've had several cases where they go into the program at night and change their names and change their owners. I think Mr. Kinach has a story in mind about his organization of Ukrainian industrialists. And that's why I'm addressing all the deputies, the Committee on Corruption, Mr. Chumak. I'm ready to give you all the data. Today in the country, all the registers in each ministry are private property. This is a threat to Ukraine’s national security. And that's why I hope that there's no addiction here, a party that, we have to protect our country's personal data. Thank you.
ParlaMint-UA_2013-10-09-m0.u7	Thank you. People's Deputy Labazük.
ParlaMint-UA_2013-10-09-m0.u8	Please hand over Lithuania to Volodymyr Mihajlovich.
ParlaMint-UA_2013-10-09-m0.u9	Please, Vladimir Mikhailovich Litwin.
ParlaMint-UA_2013-10-09-m0.u10	Dear Head, distinguished national MPs. It seems that the European momentum has closed down all the problems facing the country and the people. I'll stop at some of them. By the 25th anniversary of the Chernobyl tragedy from Kiev, a recommendation was launched as mandatory for implementation. Of the 2,000,300 population sites that are confined to the Chernobyl area, it is strongly recommended to leave only 500, all the others to account for, consider ecologically healthy and completely safe. And since it's not pharisaic, cynical and blasphemous, such a voluntary decision by local self-government authorities and the next approval by the Supreme Council will give people a better life. It's ridiculous! Let me give you an example of the Emylchin region in Zitomirsk. From 115 locations, it is proposed to remain in Chernobyl status only 20. In rural areas, one village remains a Chernobyl area, and another is considered clean, where one can live and work without restrictions. Maybe that's what we should do. But it would be good for officials from Kiev to come and see, and what about people in this area where there's a state-owned company called Lisgospo? Everyone survives on the basis that they receive small sums in accordance with the status of the Chernobylites. It is stated that, despite the fact that these changes will take effect after a voluntary decision has been taken at the local level and the relevant decision of the Supreme Council, there will be nothing in the 2014 budget. I very much ask you, fellow honourable Members, that we show principle and look at people's problems with the eyes of the people. So it's not the same as medical reform. The decision was made on the recommendation of experts who had never been to rural territory. They don't know that it's 70 kilometers from the village to the district center. It's not the way, it's the way. It's at best. We need to create conditions first and then carry out reforms. And finally. I pay attention to the Presidium, I address the Head of the Supreme Council. For parliamentary inquiries and appeals, we get absolutely illiterate and ridiculous discounts. It's often thick with third-rate officials. The head of the department is responsible for the appeal to the Prime Minister. Answers are often false. Absolutely not true! Let's say they're talking about 100 percent district subsidies being funded. And actually, 23 percent. Please consider my statement to be a parliamentary request.
ParlaMint-UA_2013-10-09-m0.u11	Thank you. The Party of Regions, the national deputy of Žuravsky, Ilyuk is transmitting.
ParlaMint-UA_2013-10-09-m0.u12	Dear Vladimir Vasilovich, distinguished colleagues! At the time of our accession to the Council of Europe, Ukraine has undertaken to implement the recommendations of PARJE and the Venice Commission regarding the introduction of the procurator’s office to European standards. In the draft Law on Public Prosecutions, the Ukrainian Prosecutor's Office will largely become a public prosecutor's office. The bill provides for the elimination of so - called general oversight. So the Public Prosecutor's Office will be deprived of the authority to carry out checks on the enforcement of valid legislation, starting with any small private enterprise and all the way to the Cabinet of Ministers, unable to self-examine violations of laws, investigate them, supervise the investigation, and at the same time support the State's charges in court, that is, if the President's bill is passed, the Public Prosecutor's Office will not perform its inequitable functions. The same applies to the functions of the Public Prosecutor’s Office in connection with the pretrial investigation. The project does not provide for investigators and special prosecutors: environmental, military, transport, and others. Today, more than 14,000 people are working in the prosecutor’s office. When the bill is adopted, it will usually reduce, respectively, the burden on the state budget. And those who remain in the prosecutor’s office will have better social protection. The President's legislative initiative strengthens the status of the prosecutor, deprives him of his dependence on all branches of power and any political influence, and the prosecutor becomes dependent solely on his greatness of the law. This bill is addressed to the Venice Commission, and we are awaiting an official conclusion, but we already have a preliminary assessment from the members of this important institution. A few weeks ago, a delegation of this commission came to the Committee on Law Enforcement. As Secretary Thomas Marker pointed out, I quote, "The Ukrainian Procurator's Bill on the President's Office is a good basis for reforming it," is the end of the quote. And those remarks that have been made, we have the power to remove them, most of them, and opposition. Dear nationals, we all want to see Ukraine legally and self-sufficient, so we are destined to work constructively for the interests of our state. Thank you for your attention.
ParlaMint-UA_2013-10-09-m0.u13	Thank you. Freedom Union, National Deputy Illenko.
ParlaMint-UA_2013-10-09-m0.u14	Andrew Illenko, faction of the All-Ukrainian Freedom Union, city of Kiev. Dear colleagues, distinguished voters. Recently, before the crucial summit in Vilnius for Ukraine, there was another dirty, lying anti - Ukrainian provocation, inspired, apparently from the Kremlin. It's a so-called football scandal when all of Ukraine is accused of being racist, neo-Nazi, of being racist in the stadiums and so on and so forth. As we know, this is followed by the Farje organization, which actually has its own representatives in Ukraine, which are fully involved in the left radical movement, which is fully involved with the prokremlic FSB structures, which are actually foreign agents in Ukraine. And they actually put a completely false, completely trending report on the FIFA table, accusing the cowards in Lviv at San Marino's game of racism, apparently in neo-Naziism, on the grounds that there were red and black flags representing Ukrainian national-liberal movement, as well as portraits of Ukrainian national-liberal actors. And in fact, on this basis were made those totally unjust and terrible decisions. We understand perfectly why this is being done. And when a scandal arose in Ukraine that it was unacceptable to make such accusations and to forbid Ukrainians to respect their history, to respect their heroes. They said it wasn't because of the red flag, it was because of some racist shouts and Russian gestures. But we did not see or hear any racist shouts. We've seen some people who are obviously just like the exiled provocateurs who tried to do something there. But we're sure it's just provocation and these few people have nothing to do with these tens of thousands of Ukrainian cowards who were at the stadium. And you can also imagine the nonsense, the person was some kind of stadium in the 88 T-shirt -- and this concludes that there is neo-Naziism in Ukraine and that Ukraine needs to be disqualified. It's a nuisance. And that's why we flew with a colleague of freedom, Igor Miroshnichenko, to Zurich, to FIFA headquarters, to make it clear that these are all insinuations that we have received assurances that Ukrainian red and black flags, as well as portraits of Ukrainian heroes of Prince Svetoslav Horobrogo, Stephen Bandera, Roman Shuhevich, they are not under any ban, and they will continue in the stands of all the Ukrainian stadiums. Because all the Ukrainian cowards, from Lviv to Lugansk, from Kiev to Simferopol, they're all patriots, they're all nationalists, they're all going to use this symbol. Last but not least, dear friends, I would like to invite everyone to the city of Kiev on October 14th 16th to the monument of Shevchenk, we will be conducting our traditional multi-thousand march in honor of the Ukrainian rebel army, in honor of the Day of the Croat, in honor of Ukrainian Cossacks! We all come and show all the Ukrainians that the flag red and black is our flag! Glory to Ukraine!
ParlaMint-UA_2013-10-09-m0.u15	Dear National Deputies! We've got to be quiet, we've got a lot of work to do, we hear each other, I'm asking you. Party of regions. Whom does Sappchuk pass on to?
ParlaMint-UA_2013-10-09-m0.u16	Momo.
ParlaMint-UA_2013-10-09-m0.u17	Momo. Alexander Momot, National MP. Please.
ParlaMint-UA_2013-10-09-m0.u18	Alexander Momot, 27th constituency, Dnipropetrovsk, Party of Regions Dear Head, dear colleagues, I'm not talking about football. I want to draw your attention to a very painful question, the extremely difficult state of the Dnipro River. No exaggeration, it's our main water artery that feeds the country. From a total length of 2,000 miles [2,000 km] to nearly a thousand miles [about a thousand km] in Ukraine. Dnipra’s water resources account for 70 percent of the country’s total water resources; Dnipra’s water supply accounts for 30 million people, 50 large cities, and industrial centers, and more than 10,000 enterprises. Dnipro is the main and in some areas is the only source of water. In the Supreme Council, I represent the interests of more than 160,000 Dnipropetrovska residents, my constituency is right on the shore of Dniper. In our eyes, the mighty river is gradually transformed into a standing lake, a riverbed for a watershed system, and in fact, Dnipro is now six large lakes, where water levels are regulated by reefs. Ecologists have released information that the watershed system has reduced its current rate several times. During the summer, high temperatures accelerate the breakdown of organics, strong green algae develop, and in July, the river becomes bright green, flowery, unpleasant smell spreads. The situation is exacerbated by illegal or semimarine forgetfulness. Private buildings are often built on free projects and cause terrible damage to rivers and the environment. Dnipro is a natural gift that we must preserve for our offspring. If we don't start working systematically today, 20 years from now, we'll be living on the beach of a big swamp. What can we say to our grandchildren? What we never did was talk about football. In every matter, priorities must be set. The state of Dnipra is a priority issue that needs to be addressed systematically and in a comprehensive manner so that the fire will not be extinguished after the environmental disaster. Along with my colleagues Glazonov and Butkovsky, I took the initiative in initiating parliamentary hearings on the subject: the state of Dniper. The decision was made today. Our goal is to draw attention and bring together colleagues from a professional committee, experts from the Ministry of Environment and Natural Resources, scientists and representatives of social organizations who care about environmental issues. Together, we need to develop a clear rescue program for Dniper. In time, we need to consider this issue internationally and join Russia and Belarus, where the Dnipro River also flows. But the first step is behind us. By saving Dnipro, we save the future. Thank you for your attention.
ParlaMint-UA_2013-10-09-m0.u19	Thank you. The faction of the Ukrainian Company, the national deputy of the Jury.
ParlaMint-UA_2013-10-09-m0.u20	Alexander the Preacher, the Communist faction. Dear colleagues! Respectable voters! As the issue of youth policy in parliament will be addressed on Friday, a few words on youth policy. On 29 October, all normal people will celebrate the 95th anniversary of the establishment of the Lenin Komsomol, an organization without which it is impossible to present the latest history of Ukraine, an organization that has indeed made a significant contribution to Ukraine being a State. And there's only one example. Even those businesses created by the communists who are still working today are making profits and completing Ukraine's budget. Of course, not everyone likes it: the oligarchs don't like it, the social-nationalists don't like it. But I would like to point out that they were still with Komsomol badges and party tickets yesterday, and today they're all sold for dollars. They fear the heroic past and fear a worthy future for Ukraine. Ukraine's youth are worthy of a future. And for young people, there are only three conditions: the first is free education, 16 years old, medium and higher; the second is a job with a normal salary to buy an apartment and maintain a family; and the third is what we call “health”, that is, access to all infrastructure facilities to make our youth healthy. None of these authorities in 22 years of independence had this to do with the traitor Kravchuk and Kuchma, the orange or the white or the blue, or those who are now shouting. They do not need this because their children and they live with socialism, they all receive it free of charge, and 99 per cent of Ukrainian youth and people are forced to pay for it at every step. Moreover, the President of Ukraine recently signed a decree on youth policy, which proposes to reduce the age of youth from 35 to 28. In addition to improving the statistics of the Party of the Regions, this will not do anything, there will be no support for youth. We insist that today's job creation needs to be done with better access to education, work for young people, housing for Ukraine to have a chance for the future. And now for screaming social-nationalists, Hitler's lawyers. You must apologize to the people of Ukraine for what your cowards did in the stadiums. This is what has caused Ukraine to suffer economic damage today. The cost per year of keeping the Live Arena 20 million dollars. For 5 years, disqualification is 100 million dollars! Sell your homes, sell your expensive cars, and only then come and teach here to whom to speak. You have been, and will be a disgrace to Ukraine. [[B in m in s a l in]]
ParlaMint-UA_2013-10-09-m0.u21	Everything? Is there anything else? [[B in m in s a l in]] Ladies and gentlemen, I'd like to warn you. I want to warn Igor Miroshnichenko, you whistled in the hall, it's a non-parliamentary form of work, it's a session hall, not a rally. You won't get a line today. Don't whistle in the hall. I'm telling you again, that's the whole line. And I give my word to the Freedom faction, the Sabi People's Deputies, please. Don't whistle in the hall!
ParlaMint-UA_2013-10-09-m0.u22	Igor Sabiy, the All-Ukrainian Freedom Union, 189th constituency, Hmelnichtina. Dear Head, distinguished national deputies, September 23rd in Kamyanec-Podilski, in Hmelničina, there was a presentation of Mrs. Irina's monograph "Farion's Speech Norm: Destruction, Search, and Again." Would it seem like that? A presentation of science, no politics, a meeting with teachers, a meeting with a student youth. As in Herson, as in Odessa, as in Donetsk, as in the Kiev-Magilian Academy, the Party of Regions and its servants turned this action into political opposition. During the presentation to the hall, an overcrowded hall of the city’s cultural home, they tried to infiltrate up to 80 sports figures in sports suits — graduates and educators of the local assembly schools on the grounds that they wanted to ask Mrs. Irina Farion, such as newly discovered philosophical athletes. It would be good if the same athletes had not been seen before during the break-up of the meetings of other national opposition deputies with the Kamyanz-Podilski community, if they had not been seen during the attempt to prevent the protest campaign on 29 March against the closure of schools, against the closure of hospitals and against the atrocities of Ukrainian roads under the Hmielnick district administration. Headed by Kamyanec-Podil District Council of the Party of the Regions by Kamyanec-Podil City Sport Head and ZKG by Sergey Crotek, Head of the Public Council of the Mesquikonkom, former Communist, and now Assistant Regional Officer, Oleg Gilowski, Director of the Private Line "Antej" Inna Blažević, Coach of Kickboxing, Member of the Young Regions, Anatoly Globatyuk, Director of the DUSH No2, Director of ZOS No.6 Tetjana Ostofiyczuk, Head of the City of Nadija Podskoska, Director of Spetkomuntransu, Serge Gzebowski, Head of the Young and Sports Department of the Mesikon Jurij Kozlov, Head of the Local Federation of the Tecwonda of Tekwonda. There was an attempt to penetrate the hall, there was a broken back door, there was a tear gas. Only through the concerted action of the freemen did they fail to cancel the meeting. The militia was gone at all. Only after being beaten by these athletes, Alexander Kushner, deputy head of the Department of Public Security of the Police, was raised to 50 militiamen. We think this is a preparation for the presidential election. This is what the regionals think is going to be going through, all the presidential candidates' meetings.
ParlaMint-UA_2013-10-09-m0.u23	Finish up.
ParlaMint-UA_2013-10-09-m0.u24	But be assured that we will not allow such scenarios and, as we in Kamyanec-Podilski gave away the luxury of these woe-sportsmen, we will continue to give. We demand a foreign minister. Excuse me, Minister of Internal Affairs, to bring the head of the Dahno City Police Department to justice. Especially because a week earlier, Kamyanec-Podilski was taught not to allow public opposition. That was the result.
ParlaMint-UA_2013-10-09-m0.u25	Thank you. The Fatherland faction, Mikola Tomenko's national deputy. Please. The last speaker.
ParlaMint-UA_2013-10-09-m0.u26	Dear colleagues, I wanted to draw attention to a very difficult trend that we believe has taken place during the last period. The more we talk about the need for European integration and the adoption of European bills, the more problems we have with European practice. I feel that today the authorities and officials have declared Ukraine out of the law. Today, it is fashionable not to obey or obey the law but to circumvent it. Take a look at how the filigree government passed the law on the budget. I tried to find at least one living MP who saw the budget, and I couldn't find one. We're told that this is the most secretive document in Ukraine, this is the budget. Everyone knows he exists theoretically, but no one has seen him. In normal countries, you know, if the government doesn't make a budget on time -- either the government resigns, or those officials who haven't been able to do it, well, at least they refuse to pay. They say, "Well, we played it wildly: we gave you a budget for a second -- and in a second, we beat you up, we tricked you." So I have a question: what about the police, the local officials, the ordinary citizens who look at the government and the parliament? Do they have to obey the laws? They are as active as they have been here. So is today in Kiev. I took up the topic that fashioned, from Roman history, into Ukrainian history. We have not bread and spectacles, but cheap vodka and spectacles. We've got a ride today. Look what's going on. A registered vodka, that's a good drink, and it sells 24 hours at the Crucifixion, at every stop, at every pharmacy. And my pharmacists tell me to do something, people, older people come to buy drugs, and there's a line for a cheap vodka! Today in Kiev, every prosecutor, police officer, and judge through their children has a bulwark! On Obolon, where I live, there were a thousand MAFs -- today 2,000 MAFs! Friends, have a conscience. Well, is it every child and every relative and nephew of the law enforcement agencies that are supposed to protect the Kyiv, who now join together, smoke, and make illegal money in Kiev?Oh, my God! I'm absolutely convinced that if we don't put the order in this today, no one will comply with the law. I'm not talking about drugs anymore. My colleagues, and today Paul Petrenko will hold a press conference to tell us that we have drugs ten times more expensive today than in Europe. It's not what's in the SND, it's what's in Europe. How must we protect the elderly? Today, my friends, we have a unique opportunity to correct the error of pension reform. Our colleagues, Ludmila Denisov and a group of authors, have prepared a civilized, just pension reform system. I hope that today we will all vote together and give our elderly people the opportunity to live worth living, not to survive in today’s situation. So, my friends, we're going back to the law and we're going back to European practice.
ParlaMint-UA_2013-10-09-m0.u27	Ladies and gentlemen, the time for speeches is over. [[B in m in s a l in]] I want to inform you. [[B in m in s a l in]] I won't give you anything. I want to inform you. Please. I'm taking it very seriously. Time's up. You're all teaching me to follow the rules. [[B in m in s a l in]] Where's Oleg Tuggnibok? Oleg Tuggnibok, please calm down the MP. I won't give you a line. Calm down, please. He's an experienced man, I respect him, he respects me. Please! There is no National Deputy Greeneweck, National Deputy Fabricant, National Deputy Evening, National Deputy Zarubinsky. That's what I'm saying for shipping. Next. There's no Lunchenk National Deputy? None. In the deployment of the National Deputy of Soroka, National Deputy Stoyan. People's deputy in the Ljovczyn expedition. There's a national deputy of Karpuntsov in the hospital. Yeah, right? National member of the Stac. None. National MP at Palamarczuk Hospital. Yeah? National deputy Shulga. And on vacation, the national deputy of Balog. Ratification is under consideration. A draft Act (No.0036) on the ratification of the Rules for the Carriage of Goods in International Direct Freight Rail and Slow Connection between the ports of Ukraine and the ports of the Republic of Turkey, which have a railway connection, between the Cabinet of Ministers of Ukraine and the Government of the Republic of Turkey. How do we view it? Anyone who wishes to take a brief look at it, please vote. [[10:36:56]] For 135 It's very good that we're going to be looking at the full program. For 135, against 3, with 15, with no vote of 235. The decision is not taken. Let's see. That's very good. I invite you to report to the head of the State Security Inspectorate on the maritime and river transport of Sobolovski Grigorovovich, because the minister is on his way. Please, you have 10 minutes.
ParlaMint-UA_2013-10-09-m0.u28	Dear Vladimir Vasilovich, distinguished national deputies! You are considering a draft Ukrainian Law on the Ratification of the Rules for the Carriage of Goods in International Direct Freight Rail and Parma Connection between the ports of Ukraine and the ports of the Republic of Turkey, which have a railway connection, between the Cabinet of Ministers of Ukraine and the Government of the Republic of Turkey (Registration No. 0036) (since 14 August 2013). Established by the Cabinet of Ministers of Ukraine, which is designed to implement the relevant internal procedures necessary to establish the validity of the Rules for the Carriage of Goods in International Direct Freight Rail and Parom Connection between the ports of Ukraine and the ports of the Republic of Turkey, which have a railway connection, between the Cabinet of Ministers of Ukraine and the Government of the Republic of Turkey. The draft law provides for ratification by the Supreme Council of Ukraine of the Regulations, signed on September 13, 2012, in Kiev. The implementation of the Regulations will ensure the creation and functioning of a reliable legal mechanism at the international level to regulate obligations and relations between the railways of Ukraine and the railways of the Republic of Turkey through steam complexes, shipowners, shipowners and recipients in the implementation of the Treaty on the Transport of Goods in International Railway and Steam Connections through the ports of Ukraine and the Republic of Turkey. In addition to establishing the principles for carrying cargo, wagons, and containers. The implementation of the draft act does not require additional costs from the state budget and the local budgets of Ukraine. In view of the above, please support the above-mentioned draft of the Ukrainian Law. Thank you for your attention.
ParlaMint-UA_2013-10-09-m0.u29	Thank you. Ladies and gentlemen, do you have a question? None. Have a seat. The word for the report is given to the deputy head of the Committee in foreign matters, Yuri Romanovich Miroshnicka. Please.
ParlaMint-UA_2013-10-09-m0.u30	Thank you, Vladimir Vasilovich. Honorary voters, honourable colleagues, the Committee on Foreign Affairs considered the draft Ukrainian Law on the Ratification of the Rules on the Transport of Goods in International Freight and Parma Connection between the ports of Ukraine and the ports of the Republic of Turkey, which have a railway connection between the Cabinet of Ministers of Ukraine and the Government of the Republic of Turkey (regision No. 0036) (from 14.08.2013) and approved the decision to recommend to the Supreme Council of Ukraine to adopt the bill and ratify the said international legal act. Ratification of the Rules will contribute to the creation and functioning of a reliable legal mechanism at international level to regulate obligations and relationships between the railways of Ukraine and the railways of the Republic of Turkey, steam complexes, shipowners, shippers and recipients, with the implementation of the Treaty on the Transport of Goods in International Railway and Steam Connections through the ports of Ukraine and the Republic of Turkey; and the establishment of principles for the conduct of calculations and the transport of goods, wagons and containers. The implementation of these cargo rules will not require additional expenditure from the State budget and local budgets for 2013 and beyond. The main scientific and expert office of the Supreme Council of Ukraine believes that this international legal instrument can be ratified. So, your honor, on behalf of the committee, I ask you to support the Committee's decision on foreign matters and ratify the rules on the transport of goods in an international direct freight rail and steam connection between the ports of Ukraine and the ports of the Republic of Turkey, which have a railway connection. Thank you for your attention.
ParlaMint-UA_2013-10-09-m0.u31	Thank you. Is there a question for Yuri Romanovich? None. [[B in m in s a l in]] Is it? Sign up. I'm asking you to sign up. I beg of you, the People's Deputy of the Strike Party, Sergey Kaplin, please.
ParlaMint-UA_2013-10-09-m0.u32	Please pass the word to Paul Rosenck.
ParlaMint-UA_2013-10-09-m0.u33	Please give me your word.
ParlaMint-UA_2013-10-09-m0.u34	Paul Rosenco, Vitaly Caller's Faction. Please, Vladimir Vasilovich. I see there's a desire in the Party of Regions that we want to work completely today -- and look at all the social-important bills that we have going on. So the strike faction requires that we put to the vote and continue today's plenary day of the session of the Supreme Council until the end and consideration of all the issues of the agenda that we have today. Because we have today a retirement reform renegotiation, we have today a pension modernisation issue, we have today a question of the only principles of pensioning, the abolition of pensions, especially the separate pension system of the national deputies, the President and the government. That is why we need to work hard today.
ParlaMint-UA_2013-10-09-m0.u35	Thank you. That's a fair offer, let's take a look at that. The MPs prepare, I'll put the vote to a full vote. Questions. Post-faction, national MP Lazko. Please.
ParlaMint-UA_2013-10-09-m0.u36	Oleg Lazko, Radical Party. Dear Vladimir Vasilovich, well, we're not in the kindergarten. We understand that the Party of the Regions deliberately prolongs consideration of secondary issues so as not to consider the main issues. As colleague Rosenko has already said, the issue of pension insurance, the restoration of justice in the last day's pension bill stands, again the last day is in the second reading of the law on hospital closures. So that's what you're playing right now, "dumb glue" and you're not voting, and you're not allowing yourself to consider the pension bills, the question of not shutting down the hospital, the Lord will punish you for it, and people will treat you with contempt. That's why I'm asking the bandits of the Party of Regions: stop fooling people, stop glued to fools, and delay the consideration of questions. We're working till morning, Vladimir Vasilovich, before morning! You have a pension of up to 30,000, you can work. And people get 900 dollars of pension, they can't live.
ParlaMint-UA_2013-10-09-m0.u37	From my retirement, 30,000 dollars, I'll be 50 percent, let's take a notary, I'll rewrite it for you today. And don't lie to people. And the Party of Regions is nowhere to be found! I asked you a question: Short-term procedure, ten minutes, and we'd look at it -- and we'd get to your law. And you're playing politics. You're lying to people yourself, you're a liar! I'm asking for a replica, a party of regions, Chechetov. Don't play games with me, please!
ParlaMint-UA_2013-10-09-m0.u38	Dear Vladimir Vasilyevich, respected colleagues, but very little literate people understand that the bread from heaven does not fall to the ground. To make social payments, to solve social problems, we need to raise the economy. The improvement of social standards is based on economic growth and it is this bill that aims to develop the country's economy towards the recovery of the country's economy. It's a base, it's the basis of all our well-being, and you're so reluctant, you're talking populistly about nothing. Now that the session needs to be extended today before all issues are addressed. First, there are committees, and secondly, if two months, on the fault of one faction, we did not go to Parliament, these issues would have long been addressed, do not be ashamed. Let us work, and we must not pollute serious consideration.
ParlaMint-UA_2013-10-09-m0.u39	Yuri Romanovich, sit down. You have already answered all the questions. I'm asking you to sign up for the National Deputies from the factions. We have 15 minutes to discuss this. Got it. The Party of the Regions is a national deputy, Kolesnichenko. Please. You have three minutes.
ParlaMint-UA_2013-10-09-m0.u40	The faction of the Party of Regions of the town of Sevastopol. Dear colleagues! Respectable citizens of Ukraine! When we discuss such a sign, we must remember that almost the entire Parliamentary Hall is filled with European integrationists who sleep and see when we are finally in Europe. At the same time, they forget that Turkey has been an associate member of the European Community for several decades. This is a concrete example of how Turkey's economy has grown, how human rights issues have grown, how the economy has developed. Here, unfortunately, we can envy the Turkish State, and more than ever, a similar draft agreement between Ukraine and Turkey has emerged between our Governments. Because what is rail ferry, what is transport? These are jobs, these are the efficiency of the economy, they are without overloading goods, without overloading them from railway wagons, they come from the manufacturer to the buyer, the supplier to the buyer. This is what speeds up traffic, what brings money to our economy! And, of course, you can beat your head against the walls, plow, howl, but you can't understand the rules of the economy. Unfortunately, not all deputies understand how money is made. Some, they cheer, others scream, others shout, unfortunately, the budget won't be cold or hot. And the fact that the country will suffer is yes. Thank God that there is a ruling majority in Parliament, that representatives who understand that the economy must be protected by laws, that our producers must be provided with timely delivery of goods across the sea, they are here, they work and discuss such important and sign questions. Of course, it's easy to chat, as we've heard here all the time, to talk about some palaces on the sand, but for our Ukrainian people, it won't bring any money or benefits or prospects. Therefore, of course, such a very important agreement between the Governments of Turkey and Ukraine on rail transport, we must of course support. Because this is the basis for our development, the basis for port development, the emergence of new jobs, the emergence of a perspective for the revitalization of our economy. Because this is essential to us today. The people of Ukraine will certainly not only thank us for this but will support us. Because they support those who work for our State. Praise the working Ukraine!
ParlaMint-UA_2013-10-09-m0.u41	The Fatherland faction, Burbak People's Deputy.
ParlaMint-UA_2013-10-09-m0.u42	Deputies! Dear Vladimir Vasilovich! I appeal to all deputies not to delay the time and consider the first three questions under reduced procedure, in order to still return to abolishing the shameful pension reform. And all that the Communist Party, the Party of the Regions, is doing now, is taking time not to cancel this disgraceful decision, it's not going to go away. Please, Volodymyr Vasilovich, put to the vote on a reduced procedure the first questions -- and we will consider abolishing pension reform. Thank you.
ParlaMint-UA_2013-10-09-m0.u43	I can't put anything on now. Let's get this over with, and what's the deal? I'll put all the proposals to the vote. The Vitalia Klitschka faction, National MP of Mochkov.
ParlaMint-UA_2013-10-09-m0.u44	Please pass the word to my colleague Irina Heratchenko.
ParlaMint-UA_2013-10-09-m0.u45	Please, Irina Heratchenka. Turn on the microphone.
ParlaMint-UA_2013-10-09-m0.u46	Dear colleagues, the strike faction supports, of course, the ratification of this document primarily because we are aware of the seriousness of today's fight for freight and how much attention needs to be paid, including the Crucibles, to increase transit. But first of all, we also want to draw the attention of the session hall, which is now in the order of the day with extremely important drafts -- pensionable. Therefore, we suggest that after a reduced procedure, we continue to make sure that the entire agenda is exhausted. Thank you for your attention.
ParlaMint-UA_2013-10-09-m0.u47	Freedom Union, national deputy of Orotyuk.
ParlaMint-UA_2013-10-09-m0.u48	Please pass the word to Alexander Shevchenk.
ParlaMint-UA_2013-10-09-m0.u49	It's transmitting. National MP Alexander Shevchenko.
ParlaMint-UA_2013-10-09-m0.u50	Thank you. Alexander Shevchenko, Freedom faction. We will, of course, support the ratification of this treaty, and we agree that this agreement contributes to the further development of trade relations with the Republic of Turkey. At the same time, we would like to point out that those who have drafted this text of the treaty should obviously be more careful to formulate both the name of the treaty itself and the provisions of the treaty. Well, especially if the MPs had listened carefully, they would have heard that these are rules for the transport of goods in an international direct rail and ferry connection between the ports of Ukraine and the ports of the Republic of Turkey, which have a railway connection, between the Cabinet of Ministers of Ukraine and the Government of the Republic of Turkey. Do you hear me? Railway connection between the Cabinet of Ministers of Ukraine and the Government of the Turkish Republic Similarly, the preamble to this agreement is that the lack of agreement in the preamble also breaks it, and it also sounds like an anecdote. I would also like to draw attention to certain articles, such as this covenant that they have foreshadowed. Why, consider article 8.2 of the Bible. 1, o. When carrying a consignment note for each shipment, the consignor is obliged to put the consignment note in the form. and in English with the designation of border stations and port stations. What's the English language? Graph 4 says "receiver, name, address, country." In count seven, the sender's application. For further carriage to Ukraine by steam, re-delegation. a statement by the sender of the consignment note, the consignee shall not be entitled to dispose of the goods, issue to the consignee, sender, postal address, etc., etc. Is that logical or not? English is it or what? Are errors really grammatical in, for example, article 5. 3, basic grammatical error. So I'd say at least we should hire staff who have secondary education.
ParlaMint-UA_2013-10-09-m0.u51	Thank you. The faction of the Ukrainian Company, National Deputy Simonenko.
ParlaMint-UA_2013-10-09-m0.u52	Dear colleagues, respected citizens of Ukraine! The company basically insists on a full review of all the bills proposed for consideration in the Supreme Council, and we have not supported any short-term bill. It's for the talkative national MPs who turn to the faction. Next, we will surely vote in favour of this bill. But by voting, I would like to offer you some points that we should take into account today in order to really raise the economy of Ukraine. By ratifying the agreement with Turkey, I want to remind you how Ukraine raised Turkey's economy. Ukraine raised Turkey’s economy after the collapse of the Soviet Union. First, reforms have been introduced in Ukraine, now there are national MPs who have imposed these reforms, which have led to the collapse of the economy, the inflation of 10,000 400 percent. And all of this led to the fact that the Ukrainian was poor, fleeing from Ukraine with a striped bag, running to Turkey and buying, out of carts of goods to be made available in Ukraine’s markets to feed their children and their families. What a roaring living animal in the Mikolai, Herson, Odessa region, when you carried her out with millions of cattle to make all the easy industry work in Turkey! In Ukraine, however, light industry was destroyed. I remind you to remember what you've done with Ukraine in 22 years. I would like to remind you once again that it is the minister of Turkey who is speaking in Yalta at the conference -- it was just that -- that Turkey is today considering the issue of exit in general. More loyally, to withdraw Turkey's application to join the European Union. So those who are aspiring to understand us today about the laws of the economy, I would like them to know a little bit about what's really going on, first of all, in Ukraine and what we need to do to save Ukraine. And the last. When it comes to what, let's say, needs to be addressed in the laws of the economy, the law of the economy, first of all, provides for honest money, not stealing. This is the main law of the economy. And I'd like one of those oligarchs to be called here, who made this money in Ukraine in a woodshed, in a mine. or near the kiln of the metalworking combination. Thank you.
ParlaMint-UA_2013-10-09-m0.u53	Factions finished speaking. The speeches come from the deputies. 15 minutes. I'm asking the national deputies to sign up. I beg you, the Pratya faction of the region, the national deputy of Koleshnenko.
ParlaMint-UA_2013-10-09-m0.u54	Chechtew.
ParlaMint-UA_2013-10-09-m0.u55	I'm asking you to pass the word to the People's Deputy Chechtov.
ParlaMint-UA_2013-10-09-m0.u56	Dear Vladimir Vasilovich! Dear National Deputies! The bill proposes to ratify the Rules for the Carriage of Goods in an International Direct Freight Rail Transport Connection between the ports of Ukraine and the ports of the Turkish Republic with a railway connection between the Cabinet of Ministers of Ukraine and the Government of the Turkish Republic, signed on 13 September 2012 in Kiev. The rules set out the order and conditions for the transport of export, import and transit goods carried by wagons throughout the international direct rail transport route between the ports of Ukraine and the Republic of Turkey, which have rail connections, regulate the obligations and mutual relations between the railways of Ukraine and the Republic of Turkey, ferry complexes, shipowners. Consignors and recipients in the execution of a contract for the carriage of goods in an international direct cargo rail and ferry connection through the ports of Ukraine and the Turkish Republic, which have a railway connection and establish principles for the conduct of freight settlement. Ratification of the rules will contribute to the creation and functioning of a reliable legal mechanism at international level to regulate obligations and mutual relations between Ukrainian and Turkish railways, steam complexes, shipowners, shipowners and recipients in the execution of a contract for the transport of goods to an international rail and steam station through the ports of Ukraine and the Republic of Turkey, as well as the establishment of principles for the conduct of settlement for the transport of goods, wagons and containers. I propose to support the Committee's decision on foreign matters. I'll read it: "The transport of goods in an international direct freight rail and ferry connection between the ports of Ukraine and the ports of the Turkish Republic, which have a railway connection, between the Cabinet of Ministers of Ukraine and the Government of the Turkish Republic may be ratified." I'm going to the entire session room, and I'm going to the opposition deputies. Please support this important bill for Ukraine's economy, ratify this Agreement, and thus contribute to the development of our economy. And this document goes in the context of our Euro-Integration Wish. Please support this bill and vote on it as a whole. Thank you.
ParlaMint-UA_2013-10-09-m0.u57	People's deputy Tomenko, the Fatherland faction, is invited to attend.
ParlaMint-UA_2013-10-09-m0.u58	Please pass on the word to Vladimir Yavorowski, who will give convincing arguments for the benefit of the law.
ParlaMint-UA_2013-10-09-m0.u59	To pass on the word to Jaborowski.
ParlaMint-UA_2013-10-09-m0.u60	Vladimir Yavorowski, Trinity, Fatherland. Dear colleagues! The pairing between Ukraine and Turkey is, of course, one of the arteries of activity and Turkey and Ukraine. This is our way out into the Balkans, Greece, in many other countries. Because it's clear that "Paternity" is going to support everything. But I am addressing both my trinity and not just them, but the electorate of Ukraine. Today, instead of ratifying this small, so to speak, decisions could take 15-20 minutes and move on to addressing the archival problems Ukraine has today. This is the pension of Ukrainian pensioners. There are many interesting, even beautiful, bills that would be worth voting for. You see what's going on. Instead of giving a full consideration to this little absolute question, trust my political experience. Instead, we're wasting time not to accept, first of all, the Party of Regions won't accept these bills that you need, Ukrainian pensioners. And the last. Today, Ukrainian society is strained and tense and will open the door to Europe, to the European Union or not. It has been six days since Cox and Kwasnevsky filed the pardon papers for Julia Timoshenko. Nowhere. Today, the Ministry of Justice pretends that it doesn't know anything and that there is no document. Once again, these documents are officially filed. They are in Ukraine today. They need to be answered in concrete terms. The entire legislative base, let no one say anything, no nonsense, all the legislative basis, the President's presence of power is complete for the release of Yulia Timoshenko from prison today. And we don't need any new documents. All it takes is the political will and depriving the President of the fear of his main political rival today. Here's the thing. As a result, let us quickly finish this consideration and move on to the basic, major issues of interest to the Ukrainian community today.
ParlaMint-UA_2013-10-09-m0.u61	People's Deputy Kaplin, Vitaly Klicka faction.
ParlaMint-UA_2013-10-09-m0.u62	Faction Vitalia Klitschka, National Deputy Kaplin, 144 constituency, Poltava. Dear representatives of the majority, I'd like your attention. I want to point out that those bills that will be considered now, the pension bills about. The moratorium on the closure of hospitals and educational institutions is what you need more than opposition. Because if you saw that angry people, pensioners, part of your electorate who was in Poltava and stormed the city council, if you heard that they were talking about you personally, about your President and your faction leaders, you'd understand, for you to support our initiatives, it's the last time to get away from national guillotine. Because opposition will come to power, the Ukrainian people will come to power with it, and it will not leave a wet place in person for each of you. And we're going to do everything we can to get the Ukrainian people to report personally on each of them, as you've done today. The position of our political power is that we are ready to work until morning not only today, but every day to exhaust the agenda, where important, serious social laws are being considered, to finally give life, not to the Ukrainian pensioner, the Ukrainian teacher, the liquidator at the Chernobyl nuclear power station, and so on. So today you have the last chance to save your skin, because Yanukovich and Azarov will flee abroad, and you will be hunted like a mouse across Ukraine. Thank you.
ParlaMint-UA_2013-10-09-m0.u63	National Deputy Bezbach, faction of the Party of the Regions. The word Jurabski is rendered.
ParlaMint-UA_2013-10-09-m0.u64	Dear colleagues, the draft act does not apply to the development of administrative and territorial units. There are no positions in the draft act that discriminate. There are no rules and procedures in the draft act that may contain risks of corruption. The draft act does not require public consultation. The draft act does not deal with socio-working issues. And the draft act is not regulatory. The profile committee – for, "BALL" – for, "Freedom" for, "Fatherland" for, Communists for, Party of Regions for. Today and tomorrow, the President of our country in the Republic of Turkey. This treaty is ratified in the Turkish Parliament. Let's help the President and help our government, vote for this important document. Thank you for your attention.
ParlaMint-UA_2013-10-09-m0.u65	National MP Lazko, non-factional.
ParlaMint-UA_2013-10-09-m0.u66	Oleg Lazko, Radical Party. Dear citizens of Ukraine, for an hour we are considering a bill on the ratification of the Agreement with Turkey. Although the question could be considered in 10 or 15 minutes. Why? Because there are still questions that concern millions of Ukrainian citizens. And the regionals don't want to vote on these issues. Neither the abolition of shameful pension reform nor the closure of hospitals, so that you, the good people, have the opportunity to receive proper medical care. Because they won't take you to Phoephania. There are only deputies, officials, ministers, presidents. And you have a hospital closed down, and you and your children are taking away the treatment. And when the honourable Head of the Supreme Council, Vladimir Vasilovich Ribak, tells me that I am lying about a pension of 20 or 30 thousand dollars, God sees that I am not lying. And I will tell you that you lie, and lie, only when you have come to power. We went to power, promised to improve our lives today. Where are your parasites, your improvements?Oh, my God! They're just making themselves better. And millions of people walk through you with their hands stretched out. Here's your improvement. You close hospitals, you close schools, you close kindergartens, you take people's jobs, you get 20,000, you get 30,000 dollars of pension, you, the Darmoids, you get on planes on Friday night, and you get lovers abroad, in Maldives, when people can't sell potatoes for three pints of potatoes. And you're saying I'm lying?Oh, my God! But you're lying to Ukrainian citizens. You're lying to people! You come before the election, you tease their heads, you rob them after the election! You're kidding, you're killing Ukrainian boys in militia raids! Every day we get information: there were killed, there were killed, there were killed. And after that, do you still have a tongue to say I'm lying?Oh, my God! Make it dry when you say it! Because I came here to Parliament with one goal: to fight with you oligarchs, to defend the interests of the common people! Because you've turned Parliament into your own pocket body, you make so much money here in a day that you can't make a living. And you're sitting there laughing with your sudden faces and saying I'm lying?Oh, my God! You don't have a conscience! Get you out of here on the pitchforks, you parasites, your feet under your ass! And bring here normal people who will stand up for the interests of Ukrainian citizens, not oligarchs, not you, assholes! They've put the whole state under them! We will free Ukraine from the Party of Regions! Shame on the Party of Regions! Get off the Party of Regions!
ParlaMint-UA_2013-10-09-m0.u67	National Deputy Guzenko, faction of the Party of the Regions.
ParlaMint-UA_2013-10-09-m0.u68	I give you my word to Momoto.
ParlaMint-UA_2013-10-09-m0.u69	Momoto, a national MP, has been handed over. The faction of the Party of the Regions.
ParlaMint-UA_2013-10-09-m0.u70	Dear head, dear fellows! I propose to support the ratification of the agreement, thereby creating a reliable environment, improving the legal mechanism at the international level to regulate obligations and mutual relations between the railways of Ukraine and the Republic of Turkey, and establishing the principles of settlement for the transport of goods, wagons and containers. Such a step will open up great opportunities to realize the transit potential of countries towards the south-north between the Baltic Seas and the Black Seas. In the overall transport structure between Ukraine and Turkey, exports account for 61 percent, transit to Turkey 38 percent. We have 2 terminals that are able to accept these ferryes, and today they're loaded at 15-20 percent -- that's Kerch and Ilchisk. On the Turkish side, the ferry is planned not only from the port of Derengi, but from the port of Samsuna and others. Thus, the relationship between Ukrainian and Turkish railways, ferry complexes, shipowners, consignors and recipients will be settled when the contract is implemented. And for those who misread the name of the decree, don't throw out a coma, and it says, "On the railway link between the ports of Ukraine and the ports of the Turkish Republic (coma), which have a railway connection (coma), between the Cabinet of Ministers and the Government of Turkey." Thank you for your attention. Please be supportive.
ParlaMint-UA_2013-10-09-m0.u71	Zuravsky National Deputy, faction of the Party of the Regions.
ParlaMint-UA_2013-10-09-m0.u72	Dear Chairman, dear colleagues, let us now address arithmetic. There were two suggestions: a reduced procedure and a complete one. After a reduced procedure, 135 national voters were voted on, and 15 votes were not enough. Now, let's see how our opposition colleagues voted: they didn't vote in Strike 12 and Freedom 7, Fatherland 22. Thus, simple arithmetic: 41 members of the opposition did not vote in favour of the reduced procedure. There were 15 people to vote in favour of the reduced procedure, and then we would not have considered the issue on a full - time basis. So look at yourself before you criticize. Thank you for your attention.
ParlaMint-UA_2013-10-09-m0.u73	Does the reporter’s closing word want to announce? The correspondent is Yuri Romanovich Miroshnichenko. Do you? You don't. Let's move on to making a decision. Honourable National MPs, I am voting on the draft Law (Registration No. 2236) on the ratification of the Rules for the Carriage of Goods in International Freight Rail Transport between the ports of Ukraine and the ports of the Republic of Turkey, which have a railway connection, between the Cabinet of Ministers of Ukraine and the Government of the Republic of Turkey for adoption as a basis and as a whole. Please vote. [[11:15:40]] For 312 The law is passed. The factions. Region Party – 136, Fatherland – 61, Vitalia Klicka – 30, Freedom – 33, Ukrainian Company – 30, non-fractional 22. Dear colleagues, today October 9th marks World Mail Day. Let us thank all mail workers for their hard work, health, happiness, family comfort, and success at work. Ladies and gentlemen, the draft Law (Registration No. 2226) amending article 16 of the Basic Law on Health Care of Ukraine (for accreditation of pharmacies) is being considered. I'm making a proposal for a reduced procedure. Please vote. [[11:16:55]] For-144 The decision is not taken. The report is the National Deputy of Ukraine, Shipko Andri Fedorovich. Please. The factions. Region Party 3, Fatherland, 65, Vitalia Klicka, 27, Freedom, 33, Ukraine, 0, non-fractional 16. Please report.
ParlaMint-UA_2013-10-09-m0.u74	Shipko Andry Dnipropetrovska oblast, 35 constituency, Nikopol city, Ordjonikidze district, Nicopol district Dear colleagues, distinguished voters, deregulation and promotion of the further development of the business in Ukraine are key tasks defined by the President's programme. These are included in the bill on the liberalisation of administrative procedures for pharmacies. In your view, legislative changes are proposed, which will free all drug institutions from bureaucratic procedures — accreditation. In fact, only a one - time and one - time license is enough for pharmacies to operate, as is the case in all civilized countries. At the same time, I stress that the State leaves behind all the necessary controls. In fact, the accreditation procedure that is proposed to be cancelled is a duplication of the licensing procedure that remains. Liberalization will not take away the responsibility of pharmacies — for the quality of medicines, for proper sanitary standards, and so forth. Under the new conditions, the authorities of the State will be able to verify the compliance with the licensing conditions of pharmacies, but the undeniable benefit is that we will release pharmacies from the same bureaucratic procedure as accreditation. And the fear that this will cause uncontrolled drug abuse is unfounded. Our legislation already implements standards that regulate the distribution of medicines according to European quality standards is extremely important. At the same time, the system of pharmacies operating in the internal market is one of the largest in Post - Soviet space and Europe. In a competitive world, however, it is important not to stop at what has been achieved, and we are moving on. The bill received positive conclusions from both the profile committee and the expert board of the Supreme Council and market participants. Please support this professional, important and constructive initiative. Your positive decision will contribute to the development of the entire pharmaceutical sector in Ukraine. This will be a good gift to all pharmacists, since the country recently celebrated a professional festival called Pharmaceutical Day. Dear colleagues, please support this bill.
ParlaMint-UA_2013-10-09-m0.u75	Dear National Deputies! Any questions to the reporter? Please sign up. National Deputy Tomenko, Fatherland faction.
ParlaMint-UA_2013-10-09-m0.u76	Please pass the word to Vladimir Yavorowski.
ParlaMint-UA_2013-10-09-m0.u77	Turn on the microphone of the people’s deputy Yavorowski.
ParlaMint-UA_2013-10-09-m0.u78	Dear reporter! Please tell me, what can be called the country where the son of the Minister of Health, who here taught Yuhim Leonidovich Zviagilski how to live? When does this minister’s son own a pharmaceutical factory that exists for the purpose of bringing raw materials from India to poverty, they spill it out, they tear it up, and they sell it 10 times as expensive? And then it was the Ministry of Health that had to ban these drugs. How do you feel about this? And what is the name of such a country?
ParlaMint-UA_2013-10-09-m0.u79	Dear colleagues, I ask you to uphold the law that will reverse the accreditation of pharmacies will only be licensing. It's a normal European norm. Let's take a step to Europe.
ParlaMint-UA_2013-10-09-m0.u80	National MP Spirina, faction of the U.K. Company.
ParlaMint-UA_2013-10-09-m0.u81	The adoption of this law will lead to a deterioration in the quality of drug control by the State, control over the quality of medications with sanitary requirements, the qualifications of pharmaceutical workers, and so forth. We know that there are a lot of drug complaints now. Licensing is just a permit for the pharmaceutical business. It can be delivered on an untimely basis. Accreditation is control, it's periodic control of the level of pharmaceutical services of the population. It's very important. Accreditation takes place every three years, and the state can thus control pharmacies. We Communists say today that we need to get the pharmacy back, control the pharmacies of the state, because procurement is done without any control. And that's important. That's why we're here.
ParlaMint-UA_2013-10-09-m0.u82	Answer me.
ParlaMint-UA_2013-10-09-m0.u83	I'm very pleased, Your Honor Irina Dmitrovna, that you care so much about the pharmaceutical industry, but as a substitute for the Health Committee, and you're also a pharmacist, you should know that we support the development of the whole community network of pharmacies, and that these licensing standards are European standards. These are normal standards that are common in all developed countries. And the quality of the European drugs that are already in existence. I've already said in my speech that we already have European quality standards for medicines in the country. And that's what we're stressing at every conference with the State Medical Services. And the State Department of Medical Services doesn't take responsibility off of itself, and the annual tests of pharmacies as they were, and they will be. And she's looking at the complaints. So we're not going to break the system, we're going to choose a purely bureaucratic procedure, which you are, sir. Irina Dmitryvo, you want to continue. You like bureaucracy in Ukraine, and I don't. I like European standards.
ParlaMint-UA_2013-10-09-m0.u84	Thank you. Have a seat, Andri Fedorovich. The chairman of the Committee on Health Care, Baychev Tetjana Dmitrovna, is invited to participate in the report.
ParlaMint-UA_2013-10-09-m0.u85	Dear Igor Grigorovich, distinguished national deputies! On April 17, this year, the Health Committee considered Bill 2226. The essence of the bill is to cancel state accreditation for pharmacies operating on the basis of an appropriate licence. To date, all pharmacies are bound to pass through a license pass, which is to maintain licensing conditions. All licensing conditions regulate a comprehensive list of all the requirements required to meet pharmacies. Accreditation essentially duplicates the licensing process and is a bureaucratic obstacle to the pharmaceutical industry, and it is usually made on a paid basis by consulting firms. That was a very big offer. Considered at many parliamentary hearings: the state and prospects of the pharmaceutical sector. Our committee also has numerous appeals from the public, such as the Apothecary Professional Association, from all the regions that are also asking for this to be cancelled. The main scientific and expert office believes that the results of the first reading of the bill can be used as a basis. National MPs working at the Health Committee, which is part of all factions, unanimously voted in favour of the bill to support it. And I think we can take it as a whole as a law, because this duplication is a very bureaucratic procedure, and it's not necessary at all, and it only leads to what is corruption that can be, and so it manifests itself. So I'm asking you all to understand that both the license and the accreditation are two documents that are identical to each other's. It's a procedure that's completely unnecessary. The license is given without a deadline and the State Service check can be carried out once a year, and if there are complaints, it will be more frequent. So there's always control.
ParlaMint-UA_2013-10-09-m0.u86	There's a question before.?
ParlaMint-UA_2013-10-09-m0.u87	Thank you. If you have any questions, please.
ParlaMint-UA_2013-10-09-m0.u88	Any questions?
ParlaMint-UA_2013-10-09-m0.u89	None.
ParlaMint-UA_2013-10-09-m0.u90	Please sign up. People's Deputy Kucheruk, Fatherland faction.
ParlaMint-UA_2013-10-09-m0.u91	Dear colleagues! Kucheruk, Fatherland. And tell me, please, we're talking about accreditation right now, but accreditation involves some control over the manufacture of medical supplies, not the sale of drugs. So when it comes to licensing, it means that these shops, pharmacies -- they don't need accreditation. But where there's manufacturing, where there's analytical services that produce drugs, they have to be regulated, like any production in our country. There's some accreditation in the hospitals -- let's take it off, too. There's an accreditation of state labs -- let's also take off this accreditation. So it's not exactly the right approach. Please give me an answer.
ParlaMint-UA_2013-10-09-m0.u92	That's not true at all, my dear fellow. It's a license for pharmacies, it's a license. The license includes a check of the premises, the equipment, and the availability of reference literature. It's the qualifications of the workers. This has absolutely no bearing on medical supplies. And they're registered at the Farm Center, which is run by the MOH of Ukraine. Here you go. Their services are being checked for medical supplies. This is also a double work that we should consider someday. To get the MOH, if he buys the drugs he buys. The tender runs, he can't register with the Farm Center, it's a whole other one. And this is the work they do in pharmacies. It's a license for this job, the accreditation duplicates the license, and it's run by the MOH. And the duplication of the same documents goes by.
ParlaMint-UA_2013-10-09-m0.u93	People's deputy to Popescu, faction of the region.
ParlaMint-UA_2013-10-09-m0.u94	Thank you. Sand, faction of the Party of the Regions. Please give the floor to our expert, National Deputy Jaroslav Sukh.
ParlaMint-UA_2013-10-09-m0.u95	Turn on Jaroslav Suhogo's microphone.
ParlaMint-UA_2013-10-09-m0.u96	Thank you. Thank you, colleague, for your word. Aunt Dmitrovna, tell me, please, I think everyone in this room understands, there's no politics here. Accreditation of medical facilities to prove the level of health care is one thing. And the main task of pharmacies is, as we know, the drug trade. Please tell me, as head of the committee, because I failed to ask the author this question: in the case of the liquidation of accreditation, about what amount of money will the pharmacy network save, which in turn will certainly lead to the loss of medicine for the population? Because I understand that accreditation costs a lot of money. Are we going to do something about it? Will our electorate, spoken of so beautifully by two factions, extreme left and extreme right, be saved?
ParlaMint-UA_2013-10-09-m0.u97	Thank you, Jaroslav. It's a pay base. And it's done, accreditation, some firms. The firm could put that, like, 100,000, and 300,000 dollars. So I don't have that information, it might be different. And the pharmacy has to pay for the accreditation that the MOH makes. If we now vote in favour of this bill, there will be no accreditation. There will be only a license, which is a public authority and which is given free of charge. Do you understand?
ParlaMint-UA_2013-10-09-m0.u98	Thank you. Sit down, Aunt Dmitry. Please sign up for the factions. National Deputy Sabi, Freedom faction.
ParlaMint-UA_2013-10-09-m0.u99	Please give the word to Alexander the Peace.
ParlaMint-UA_2013-10-09-m0.u100	Turn on Alexander Mirny's microphone.
ParlaMint-UA_2013-10-09-m0.u101	Thank you. Alexander Mirny, the All-Ukrainian Freedom Union. The bill that we're talking about right now is clearly necessary. And it's clear that you need him, you need to work with him. But we forget a lot of things that we have to talk about. First of all, the availability of drugs. Second, qualified assistance. Thirdly, the possibility of getting drugs in that format, in that need, and in those minimal possibilities that our pensioners have in the first place. Because, unfortunately, pharmacies are mostly retired. We know how they're secured. And I'd like to remind you of the constant protests under the Kabmen, the HIV-infected, the insulin-dependent, the people who have to keep cleaning their own blood. And somehow we don't respond to things at all. And this little step that we're taking right now is perfectly clear that we need it. But we shouldn't, I'll repeat, forget that we're the kind of good steps we have to take, we're making the process so complicated that it's impossible to figure out who's right or who's responsible. We're constantly changing the rules of the game, we're constantly wanting to do better, but we're creating structures that are starting to control improvements. And they're being monitored for the fact that small or medium-sized businesses are starting to shut down from all controls, to better control. So please, let's all go together in the first reading and in the second reading and in general understand that we have to simplify the procedures that are going on as much as possible. We need to make sure that, really, people don't feel the apparent, not the formal entanglement of the state and the legislators, but really the real possibilities of getting the necessary help in the form of drugs here, now and for the costs that are unfortunately in our pensioners. Thank you.
ParlaMint-UA_2013-10-09-m0.u102	The faction of the Ukrainian Company, National Deputy Simonenko.
ParlaMint-UA_2013-10-09-m0.u103	Dear colleagues, in my speech, I would like to address our voters more and explain why the Company faction will not vote in favour of this bill. First of all, the adoption of this law won't make it easy for our citizens to make the terms, prices, and quality of the drugs that our citizens receive. This is the first time. Secondly, we need to consider and define our position with you, based on what's going on in this direction at all. Well, first of all, we have to answer, and why do we have prices ten times higher in Ukraine than in Russia or Belarus on the same drugs that are produced in the same country. No one wants to answer. Why do pharmacies today become private and are making money in the face of human misery through the realization of inadequacies and a growing number of people who are suffering? The state of health has deteriorated dramatically in the country. And it is clear that this is exactly what we call a demographic pit and what is happening to us today with confidence in health facilities in general. Next. It's coming from a god's place. And here we have to be honest with our people who are lobbying interests, including at the expense of and at the participation of the Ministry of Health. There's all sorts of mud coming in here, let's say. It's being implemented in tons. People suffer and someone fills their pockets. What should we do? The Company's faction clearly and clearly answers that question. First of all, in terms of the health of the nation, the health of the young and the elderly, we need to get the pharmacies back to municipal and state property immediately and not allow people who are now speculating on some, let's say, the nuances of this draft law. Next. Introduce strict control of drug prices and all that is being implemented in the pharmacy. Because today it's like this, oligarch factories and factories, they don't give jobs, they don't pay wages, they raise prices, including in the pharmacy. For there is a man coming, a loved one suffering or dying, and buying for God knows the price. Houses are already being sold and everything from the house is being carried away just to buy this product from you at such terrible prices. Keep going. Another problem. Today we need to restore the direction of principle -- government procurement must be all the drugs from abroad. State support for pharmaceutical companies of their own. And then let the same people who want to do mediation or create and build their own pharmacy, whether they're already imported, tested, quality drugs they're buying for Ukrainian citizens. Thus, today we need to look at the basic problems and resolve at the national level, not out of the interests of your pockets! Thank you.
ParlaMint-UA_2013-10-09-m0.u104	People's Deputy Rosenco, Vitalia Klitschak faction.
ParlaMint-UA_2013-10-09-m0.u105	Paul Rosenko. Igor Grigorovich, I would like to ask you to put to the vote the question of continuing the meeting of the Supreme Council until all social issues are resolved today. That's the first one. And a word on this question is to be given to Mary Ionova.
ParlaMint-UA_2013-10-09-m0.u106	Turn on the microphone of the national MP Maria Ionova.
ParlaMint-UA_2013-10-09-m0.u107	Good afternoon, dear fellows! The Vitalia Klitschka faction will support this bill. Because we are convinced that the additional, excessive, unwarranted pressure of the state on the activities of drug - dealing operators should be reduced. Thus, at least the rights of licensed pharmacies will not yet be subject to additional accreditation. Both licensing and accreditation are in fact the same objective: confirming the compliance of pharmaceutical workers with the only qualifications and the pharmacy with the requirements of legislation. Why should we create additional barriers and obstacles to these institutions? So we propose to support this initiative. Thank you.
ParlaMint-UA_2013-10-09-m0.u108	National Deputy Bezbach, faction of the Party of the Regions.
ParlaMint-UA_2013-10-09-m0.u109	Dear Igor Grigorovich, distinguished national MPs! The bill proposes, by amending article 16 of Ukraine’s health legislation, to exclude pharmacies that operate on the basis of an appropriate licence from health institutions that are subject to accreditation. The need for adoption of this bill is motivated in particular. by the fact that, according to the current legislation of Ukraine, accreditation of health institutions is an official recognition of public services, compliance with health standards, compliance of health workers with the only qualified requirements. While the primary purpose of pharmacies is to trade in medical devices. In addition, in favour of the adoption of this bill, it is noted that the 2010-2014 Economic Reform Programme "Affordable Society, a Competitive Economy, an Effective State", approved by the Economic Reform Committee of the President of Ukraine on 2 June 2010, defines as one of the main tasks of deregulation and enterprise development, particularly a significant reduction in the number of activities and jobs requiring authorisation, the lifting of duplicative control bodies. At the same time, it should be noted that the basics of Ukrainian legislation on health protection, the term “health facility”, interprets as a legal person any form of ownership and organizational and legal form or its separate unit, whose main task is to provide health care to the population on the basis of the relevant licence and professional activities of medical workers. According to these basics, the term "medical services" refers to the activities of health care establishments and natural persons entrepreneurs who have registered and obtained a corresponding licence in the legal framework of health care, which is not necessarily limited to medical care. As a result of the review, I propose a bill to be adopted as a basis. Thank you.
ParlaMint-UA_2013-10-09-m0.u110	National Deputy Tomenko, Fatherland faction.
ParlaMint-UA_2013-10-09-m0.u111	Please give the floor to Paul Petrenko, who represents the interim commission of inquiry into the abuse of the Ministry of Health.
ParlaMint-UA_2013-10-09-m0.u112	Paul Petrenko, "Fatherland" faction. Respectful colleagues, well, raised an extremely important question, which really raised some questions about pharmaceutical regulation and health care. But we need to start talking with someone else. Today, Ukraine is truly a record player in some issues related to the cost of medicines. We are really record-breaking among our neighbor countries at the cost of socially significant drugs. Those drugs that go into the so-called social basket, we have at least 60, 70, or a few times more expensive percentages than they do in the Russian Federation, Belarus, Bulgaria, the countries of the European Union. We're also recorders for the number of pharmacies. Indeed, there are 21,000 pharmacies in Ukraine. But what is sold in these pharmacies? Why are these pharmacies imposed on Ukrainian citizens by expensive imported medicines, which on average are worth 40 bracelets per package? Why are these pharmacies not used to sell drugs from Ukrainian manufacturers? Why are we now talking about the fact that pharmacies actually turned into liquor stores, as my colleague Tomenko was talking about? Why are we talking about the fact that the Ministry of Health, rather than introducing a normal state policy on the registration of medical devices, is actually engaged in corruption schemes when they introduced a separate procedure for the registration of medical devices, which is in fact about getting bribes from those or other entrepreneurs to carry out these medical devices on drug networks? So the question is very important. Question one. Will this bill remove the issue of the roadside drugs? No, he won't. He won't solve it. And even if we take off the questions about the accreditation of pharmacies for systemic accreditation there, the drugs won't be cheap. Because the individual income they get from the pharmacy is going to put it in their pocket. The question is that we need to address issues of legislative change in a comprehensive way -- this is a question of reference pricing -- this is also a question of transparency in drug pricing, this is also a question of appropriate tax benefits and preferences for importers. Which, in fact, are now doing something that is enriching the Ukrainians on account of the cost of these drugs in Ukraine that is several times more expensive than in the producer countries. So let's not speculate right now and we'll talk about what we're going to do to solve the question of how to lower the cost of medicines, the drugs that Ukrainians need, the drugs that Ukrainians actually refuse. Because today 1 out of 6 Ukrainians refuses treatment because they do not have enough money for this treatment. We need to adopt complex bills, not adopt some point changes that relate to the interests of specific entrepreneurs in our field. Thank you.
ParlaMint-UA_2013-10-09-m0.u113	The factions are finished. People's deputies please sign up for the speech. National MP Martinyuk, Freedom faction.
ParlaMint-UA_2013-10-09-m0.u114	Please pass the word to Saint Hanenko.
ParlaMint-UA_2013-10-09-m0.u115	Sveslav Hanenko, faction of the All-Ukrainian Freedom Union. The Honourable Head, Honourable Deputies, the faction of the All-Ukrainian Freedom Association believes that the exclusion of pharmacies from the list of establishments subject to accreditation removes another administrative activity from the process of admission to production, including a corruption component that will definitely have a positive impact on the development of the health sector. At the same time, we note that Ukraine’s legislation in the field of health is one of the main causes of the disastrous medical condition of Ukrainians we now have in Ukraine. Obviously, it needs systematic improvement based on modern economic, organizational, and management technologies. The "Freedom" faction of the All-Ukrainian Union supports the bill and proposes to vote on it as a whole. Thank you for your attention.
ParlaMint-UA_2013-10-09-m0.u116	National deputy of the Byduk faction of the Ukrainian Company.
ParlaMint-UA_2013-10-09-m0.u117	Please pass the word to Deputy Spirini.
ParlaMint-UA_2013-10-09-m0.u118	Turn on the microphone of the People's Deputy Spirena.
ParlaMint-UA_2013-10-09-m0.u119	So far, we've seen the whole pharmacy network in the hands of the oligarchs. It follows that today the oligarch is not interested in providing real aid to an ordinary person and lowering prices. What's a license? It's a government permit, it's granted indefinitely. What is accreditation? It's control. Why are we getting out of control today? Why do we receive numerous complaints from people? We're talking about today's products that come from pharmacy shelves, drugs, they're not good. Who's gonna control it? Who will respond to complaints? That's not right. Today, the drafters of the bill say, "We are going to Europe." In Europe, in addition to licences, there is control. Therefore, we Communists say that in order for people to receive adequate, dignified, quality medical care, which includes medical medicines, there must be control. We're against this bill. Thank you.
ParlaMint-UA_2013-10-09-m0.u120	National Deputy Suškević, Fatherland faction.
ParlaMint-UA_2013-10-09-m0.u121	Dear colleagues! National Deputy Suškević, Fatherland faction. You know, I'd like to draw your attention to those people whose medications are extremely important, and these are people with disabilities. And unfortunately, I can tell you, and I'm talking about this not the first year, and I'm fighting a drug network that's turned, and I'm going to say the right thing, as we said on the faction today, just for pharmaceutical stores and all. In this situation, I would like to point out that these pharmacies are not accessible, architecturally not available to people with disabilities. Moreover, they are often not available in the middle, for moving in a wheelchair, for an elderly person who cannot walk in a staircase. They are now practically created, licensed, and accredited in violation of existing legislation. And this is one of the main problems today for people with disabilities to use pharmacies. And in the context of this law, I'm paying attention to both the author of the law and the national MPs that we have to write down and define in the second reading, in any way that will be adopted, whether there will be accreditation or not, but accreditation and licensing are not subject to pharmacies that do not meet the state-building standards that have provided an unhindered environment both inside the pharmacy and at the entrance to it. I mean, often these pharmaceutics, well, they look like genelicas for selling pharmacology, and that's all I can say. These are heels, half-breeds, this is, I don't know, some specks, where to go in and just use the person who needs the help of a pharmacology, it's impossible. I repeat: older people, veterans, pensioners, people with disabilities. And this is all done, unfortunately, in violation of valid legislation. Therefore, questions and accreditations and licensing should be a condition for the unhindered use of persons with disabilities, the elderly, the fact that they are licensed or accredited. I'll draw your attention to that. Thank you.
ParlaMint-UA_2013-10-09-m0.u122	National Deputy Nechayev, faction of the Party of the Regions.
ParlaMint-UA_2013-10-09-m0.u123	Please pass the word to Giuravsky, the national deputy.
ParlaMint-UA_2013-10-09-m0.u124	Dear Igor Grigorovich! Dear colleagues! I'm solely by the draft law, and only. It's about accrediting pharmacies, I emphasize, pharmacies. Today, there are two procedures: licensing a fragmented drug trade and so-called accreditation – two. We're offering to get rid of the accreditation. What will we achieve? First of all, we're going to lower the price of drugs -- people are going to bow low. We've all come here to protect the interests of the common people. Secondly, let's avoid additional corruption risks and actually demonstrate that Parliament is capable of fighting corruption. And thirdly, let's remove bureaucratic obstacles. Thank you. I hope they heard us.
ParlaMint-UA_2013-10-09-m0.u125	The National MP Alexeyev gives the floor to the National MP Kaletnik Oksani Mikolayovni, a faction of the Ukrainian Company.
ParlaMint-UA_2013-10-09-m0.u126	You know, we're living today as if we were in a picture of an overturned world. Because where we really need to stick to the state to weaken and hold back its control functions, on the contrary, there's a lot of violin going on that kind of reality that needs, really, business. And where it's necessary for the state to hold back more control, it's pretty quickly ready to take that control down. I would like to emphasize once again that our faction will not vote in favour of this bill, because it's under very good terms. Today we want to cover exactly the corruption that Mrs. Bacheva was talking about in the rostrum. Today, corruption, first of all, if we talk about the drug industry in private, this apothecary sector primarily covers the issuance of an illegal recipe that is "crippling" today, really, with the support of other state institutions, government tools, "crippling" the sale of drugs. So I think if we don't vote for this bill, we're going to take a very positive step towards making our nation at least healthy. And let's say that the health of the nation is a resource, and it's no less than, or maybe even more resources, than just costs. And you don't have to transfer everything just for the money. By adopting this bill, we are really only thinking about the private pockets of those in whose hands today the apothecary branch. Today, there is no pharmacy in the state’s hands. So I'm calling on all of the well-thinking people who understand what's happening in the drug industry today not to vote in favour of this bill. Thank you.
ParlaMint-UA_2013-10-09-m0.u127	National Deputy Tomenko, Fatherland faction. Aunt Dmitrovna, you will. You'll have the closing word.
ParlaMint-UA_2013-10-09-m0.u128	Please give the floor to the First Deputy Head of the Committee on Health Care to Roman Ilik.
ParlaMint-UA_2013-10-09-m0.u129	Dear colleagues, first of all, I would like to ask a question to the author of the legislative initiative: why this bill is really punctual and only applies to pharmacies, because the same problem is in other health institutions in part of the accreditation. But I want to talk about something else right now. Every health - care facility that receives a license today is actually accredited. We have to say that the license is a government model document that testifies to the licensee's right to carry out the relevant activity, where the licence is given the relevant period of validity, is established by a well-defined list of activities that are required to be carried out. So what does this accreditation do for us in this way? It's nothing. It's absolutely nothing. Because the fact that you get a license already shows that any medical facility, including a pharmaceutical facility, has the right to do the work. What is the responsibility in this case if the pharmacy is not properly accredited in this case or in this case. But in fact, there is no responsibility, in fact, just an accreditation commission that conducts this test, has the right to seek medical attention and to report that such a fact has taken place no more. Does this bill allow you to solve the problem of farm regulation as a whole? Of course not. Does this bill raise the question of how to resolve the cost of drugs? Of course not. As for these initiatives, what are there, and what are the possibilities today for weakening this bureaucratic corruption mechanism in part of what pharmacology institutions, pharmacies today have to pay for the fights, because there is a corruption component in the holding of another oat, so called accreditation, of course we have to go to the meeting and resolve this issue. So the position of the Fatherland faction is basically this: we will support this bill on the basis. Of course, in the second reading, we will approach and see all the comments that will appear, study them very carefully, and analyze all the additions that will arise, and then we will talk about supporting the bill as a whole. Thank you for your attention.
ParlaMint-UA_2013-10-09-m0.u130	National Deputy Ariev, Fatherland faction.
ParlaMint-UA_2013-10-09-m0.u131	Vladimir Ariev, city of Kiev Dear colleagues! Dear listeners! In this case, the bill eliminates one of the corrupt bureaucratic ingredients in the registration and operation of pharmaceutical institutions. Is that good? Yeah, I guess that's good. Because the dining room is being destroyed. Will this affect the price of drugs? Will this affect the quality of the drugs that are sold? Will this affect the order in the pharmaceutical sector? No, it won't have any effect at all. Because other laws that are responsible for the principles that I've just listed don't work, but another corruption component works. I want to mention today's speech by my colleague, Mikli Tomenka, about what's now going on in the medical and pharmaceutical fields, when the drugstores are starting to sell vodka stilts. Well, let's maybe we can continue to sell beer the next morning so that after treatment, we can heal again. So we're getting to the ultimate frost and absolute uncontrolled quality of the drugs. When a person comes in, a pensioner or a worker, and on his last penny, he's trying to buy a pretty expensive drug that costs more than the European Union today, and instead he gets a placebo or a chalk or a non-working substance, it's a control issue that doesn't work. Not being carried out by the Ministry of Health itself, because there are bribes sitting there today, there are those who control the business. Besides, when they stop supplying life-saving drugs for citizens (it's insulin, it's anti-epileptic drugs) when they're victims of crime-produced circuits for control of the pharmaceutical market, it's just that we can say that the country has reached the edge. And in this case, we're going to take an important step -- we're going to eliminate the dining room, we're going to eliminate the bureaucratic barriers. But only with the change of power will we be able to solve the issue in a complex way in the pharmaceutical sector, in the medical field, and not just in the whole country. Thank you.
ParlaMint-UA_2013-10-09-m0.u132	People's MP, Oxana Prodan, Vitalia Klitschka faction. One minute.
ParlaMint-UA_2013-10-09-m0.u133	Dear Igor Grigorovich! Dear National Deputies! I now address those who doubt how to vote for this bill. I'm talking to those who don't want to vote for him. And let me draw your attention, this bill cancels the accreditation that's in place today. Is there no corruption in the Ministry of Health today? Yes. And if this bill is not voted for, it means supporting corruption within the Ministry of Health. This is the first time. It's different. Do we today have quality medications in Ukraine? No, it's not. Are not all of you today trying to buy drugs abroad? You're trying. Is everything we promised people about the quality of medicine and safety and accessibility in Ukraine? No, it's not. Although there are licenses and registrations today, there is the same accreditation. I'm addressing all the national MPs: let's vote in favour of a different accreditation and let's make it possible to spend our medicine in Ukraine. Thank you.
ParlaMint-UA_2013-10-09-m0.u134	The speeches of the National Deputies have been completed. Bachelor’s Aunt Dmitrovna, chairman of the committee, is invited to conclude.
ParlaMint-UA_2013-10-09-m0.u135	Dear National Deputies! I am very grateful to all who have understood the meaning of this bill - 2226. And once again, at a committee meeting, all national MPs and Irina Dmitrovna Spirin voted in favour of supporting this bill as a whole as a bill. That it's not the right to operate a pharmacy, it's a duplication. Accreditation is just a duplication of a document that doesn't lead to anything: no increase or destruction of drugs, no salary, no elimination of license. It's just that paper that duplicates the license. Thank you so much, Oksani, for making that clear. It's just bureaucracy and corruption. That's what the pay base is for. And the license is given to every pharmacy in the State Service, and the accreditation is made by the MOH for consulting firms. And for that, Suhi said, we have to pay. And these costs are probably 100 and 300,000 dollars. So we're shooting what we don't really need. No quality, no cost, no employees, no impact. It's just a duplication of two documents, which is bureaucracy. Do you understand? And the fact that I'm very grateful is that there are a lot of national MPs who have raised this topic on the foundation today, that why we have inadequacy drugs, why we have 3-4 times the size of Europeans or SNDs. This is a question that we will certainly approach along with all of you. Thank you.
ParlaMint-UA_2013-10-09-m0.u136	Thank you. Sit down, Aunt Dmitry. The discussion is over. Please, the final word of the report is Shipko Andri Fedorovich.
ParlaMint-UA_2013-10-09-m0.u137	Dear colleagues, I am very grateful for this cooperation, for having discussed this bill so definitively. It's very important. I am grateful to all for your suggestions. With this bill, most importantly, we're picking up a corrupt and bureaucratic constitution and an ingredient and we're doing the world's normal practice in our state. And I assure you, honourable voters, as the head of the pharmaceutical development subcommittee, that all the bills will be designed to ensure that the state has good quality and good medicine that treats effectively. I'm grateful to all of you. Please support this bill.
ParlaMint-UA_2013-10-09-m0.u138	People's deputies, please prepare for the vote. Let's move on to making a decision. I am voting on the draft Law (Registration No. 2226) amending article 16 of the Basic Law on Health Protection of Ukraine (for accreditation of pharmacies) for adoption as a basis. Please vote. [[12:05:04]] For 255 Decision taken. The factions. Region Party – 135, Fatherland – 43, Vitalia Klicka – 29, Freedom – 31, Ukrainian Company – 0, non-fractional – 17. Honorable national MPs, national deputy Paul Rosenk, made a proposal. I would like to place my vote on the proposal of the national MP, Paul Rosenck, to continue the plenary session until the day-to-day consideration is completed. Please vote. [[12:05:55]] For-163 The decision is not taken. The factions. Region Party 3, Fatherland, 56, Vitalia Klicka, 29, Freedom, 33, Ukraine's 28, non-fractional, 14. There's a break of 30 minutes to 12 o'clock, 35 minutes.
ParlaMint-UA_2013-10-09-m0.u139	Ladies and gentlemen, we are continuing our meeting. I ask the secretariat to invite the National Deputies to the session room. Project submitted (registration 2227) The Act amending paragraph 197.1.27 of article 197.1 of the Ukrainian Tax Code (for the creation of favourable conditions to improve the provision of health care facilities and citizens with affordable medical facilities). I'm making a proposal to deal with this issue with a reduced procedure. People's deputies, please vote. [[12:36:10]] For-61 The decision is not taken. The National Deputy of Ukraine, Shipko Andri Fedorovich, is invited to report.
ParlaMint-UA_2013-10-09-m0.u140	Shipko Andrey, Dnipropetrovsk district, 35 constituency, Nikopol city, Ordjonikidze-Nicopolsk district. Respectful colleagues, respected voters, the proposed project contains an addition to Article 197 of the Tax Code, which is small in volume but is very important in terms of content. The key task of the initiative is to remove the excessive fiscal burden on operations from the supply of prescription drugs. I'd like to stress that it's the prescription drugs. This decision is extremely important for hundreds of pharmacies that produce proven and irreplaceable drugs for patients. These include medicines that are prepared for newborns that do not contain preservatives or stabilizing substances. It is important that prescription drugs are economically available to all Ukrainians. I don’t think anyone would deny that a pharmacy is a health facility and provides pharmaceutical services, not just a grocery store. I bring to your knowledge that there are about 21,000 pharmacies operating in our country. But only 433 pharmacies -- that's just 2 percent of the total -- are doing intra-apothetic extemporal drug production. Everyone's talking about the need for an individual approach to a patient -- when doctors can prescribe the original drugs that should be made with a particular clinical case. However, the existing tax regime does not contribute to the implementation of such an approach in practice. Taxation of extemporal drugs, VAT, leads to a journey that is felt by customers. With this coming to the state budget for this article, there is little. At the same time, the existing tax regime does not provide incentives for the development of such drugs, but rather complicates the work of pharmacies capable of doing so. The state, based on available medicines in the internal market, has to create all the conditions for effective pharmaceuticals, and we do so. I would like to stress that the bill received positive conclusions from the committee of profile and the expert board of the Supreme Council and market participants. Dear colleagues, please support this extremely important sectoral initiative. Thank you for your attention.
ParlaMint-UA_2013-10-09-m0.u141	Any questions? Please sign up. People's MP Pankevitch, Freedom faction.
ParlaMint-UA_2013-10-09-m0.u142	I'd like to give the floor to Ruslan Marcinkov.
ParlaMint-UA_2013-10-09-m0.u143	Hand over the word to Ruslan Marcinkov.
ParlaMint-UA_2013-10-09-m0.u144	Ruslan Marcinkov, All-Ukrainian Freedom Union. I want to ask this question because today people are very concerned about the work of our government and the ministries that actually make it impossible today, especially those who have had heart attacks. In particular, they've gone missing in all the medical pharmacies that are needed today are Kirdicen and Monosan, and people can't get help today. And it's not just for these, it's for the medical stuff, it's for a lot of other people. This is actually what's happening in the medical market today. So we need to take immediate measures today to get the drugs into pharmacies -- and there's justice. And today, we really are considering a very important law, and we must support it. Thank you.
ParlaMint-UA_2013-10-09-m0.u145	I thank you for the questions and thank you for your support. You realize that this is the most important law, especially for socially vulnerable types of people who buy drugs by individual recipe.
ParlaMint-UA_2013-10-09-m0.u146	Paul Rosenco, Vitaly Caller's Faction.
ParlaMint-UA_2013-10-09-m0.u147	Paul Rosenco, Vitaly Caller's Faction. We will, of course, support this bill. But I have a request for you, Igor Grigorovich. We are very sorry, unfortunately, that today there is a paradoxical situation where the Party of Regions and the Ministry of Social Policy have no proposals for improving the state's pension system. And at the same time, they are today rolling down all the initiatives aimed at improving the situation in the pension system, at increasing pensions for our Ukrainian citizens, today is deliberately taking a long time. We have a rule in the Rules that we, the Faction Impact, require that tomorrow be applied. These are the bills that are socially important that will not be considered today, and we demand that tomorrow, Thursday, the Supreme Council of Ukraine first discuss the abolition of pension reform. We insist on this and ask for the leadership of the Supreme Council of Ukraine.
ParlaMint-UA_2013-10-09-m0.u148	Thank you for asking and thank you for your support.
ParlaMint-UA_2013-10-09-m0.u149	Yavorowski National Deputy, Fatherland faction.
ParlaMint-UA_2013-10-09-m0.u150	Dear Mr. Shipko! Vladimir Yavorowski. The Trinity, the Fatherland. First of all, you didn't answer honestly the question I asked you during the first draft. Your view is that the son of a health minister releases harmful drugs on his business and is then forced to ban them. I'm asking you to answer it anyway. The other one. So it was that in Ukraine the drugs were the most expensive. Clearly, the richest country in Europe, Ukraine, all the problems are solved and so expensive. In fact, in Ukraine today, there has been a pharmacy clan, which is the only pharmacy systems we have in Ukraine. Because of, of course, we're going to support this bill, it's often not completely, not fundamentally, but it's going to try to put some sort of system in place a little bit. But I'm asking you to answer this question as a citizen, with the rest as a national MP. What are you afraid of?
ParlaMint-UA_2013-10-09-m0.u151	Dear Mr. Yavorowski, I respect you very much, I know you're from the Trinity. I always listen to your questions, and I love that you're such an active national MP. But what I'm trying to say is that I'm personally involved in state and legislative matters. I now want to support pharmacies that produce intravenous drugs that stand for two bracelets, three bracelets, a bracelet of fifty or twenty copies. These drugs, which are badly needed by both our newborns and our grandparents and those who are retired, they go and personally ointments, allergic, anti-allergic drugs, even take the blue one that's made in the pharmacy, methyline blue, the best medicine for the treatment of stomachs in newborn babies. Where will we develop them if there are only 433 pharmacies left in the country? Dear colleagues, I ask you to support this bill, it is very important to the industry.
ParlaMint-UA_2013-10-09-m0.u152	Have a seat, Andri Fedorovich. For a report to the rostrum, Ukrainian national deputy Vaszczuk Katerina Timofievna is invited to the rostrum.
ParlaMint-UA_2013-10-09-m0.u153	Dear Chairman, distinguished national MPs! The Committee of the Supreme Council of Ukraine on Tax and Customs Policy considered at the meeting the bill, which proposes to extend the tax-added tax regime to supply not only medical products authorised for production and use in Ukraine and imported into the State Register of Medical Devices, but also those manufactured by pharmacies for prescriptions by doctors and for the purchase of medical and preventive facilities from permitted active and auxiliary substances. Such legislation is likely to include a number of drugs that do not match the definition of a medical remedy. This will not contribute to the cost of medical supplies, but will enable unscrupulous payers to use the benefits in tax avoidance schemes. The main scientific and expert administration of the Supreme Council of Ukraine has granted approval because it is the basis for the adoption of the bill in the first reading. The Cabinet of Ministers did not provide an expert opinion on this bill. The Ukrainian Ministry of Finance does not support the bill. So the committee members of the national MPs expressed their support for the bill only in the first reading, working it out for the second reading in order to avoid these warnings that I mentioned above. Thank you for your attention. Please support in the first reading.
ParlaMint-UA_2013-10-09-m0.u154	People's deputies please sign up for questions. People's Deputy Leonov, Freedom faction.
ParlaMint-UA_2013-10-09-m0.u155	Please pass the word to Blawajki.
ParlaMint-UA_2013-10-09-m0.u156	The word is given to the People’s Deputy Blavati.
ParlaMint-UA_2013-10-09-m0.u157	Dear Mrs. Catherine Timothy, please tell me the answer to this question. Clearly, we want to do a good job today: reduce taxes on drug manufacturers. It's important. But this is compared to what our medicine needs today, and compared to what's being smuggled, smuggled, produced by a counterfeit method, it's a huge amount of money compared to the little thing we're taking today. Is it possible that through the committee we could take into account all our proposals by the people's deputies, the proposals made by our Ukrainian citizens who really need medical treatment today, and need cheap medication? Because we all know that, for example, in the neighbouring country of Poland today, 60 percent of the medicine is much cheaper. How can we take such a step so that in our second reading we can make this happen?
ParlaMint-UA_2013-10-09-m0.u158	Thank you. To that end, the committee has decided that we should adopt this bill because it clearly contains a good deal. You know how many drugs the pharmacies themselves, where there are good pharmacists, see-throughs, make their own. And this is especially true of mazes, drugs for newborns, allergies, and others. They're much cheaper compared to deficits. And that would allow these pharmacies to stand tighter on their feet and encourage them to do more than just sell what's precious, what's imported, what's counterfeit. And especially I think it's not just the committee that should play a role here, it's hard to get to every pharmacy.
ParlaMint-UA_2013-10-09-m0.u159	People's deputy Shkwarliuk, faction of the Fatherland.
ParlaMint-UA_2013-10-09-m0.u160	Please give the floor to the National Deputy Tetjana Donz.
ParlaMint-UA_2013-10-09-m0.u161	Turn on Tetjani Donz's microphone.
ParlaMint-UA_2013-10-09-m0.u162	Aunt Donz, Fatherland. Honorable colleagues are national deputies! I apologize, but I will speak solely on the basis of the bill. The initiative removes the legal colossion that has taken place today between the Tax Code, which exempts doctors from VAT who are admitted to the DDR, and in article 9 of the Law on Medical Devices, medical devices that are manufactured in pharmacies according to doctors' prescriptions and orders are not subject to the registration. I mean, we don't have it in the Tax Code, and in the Law on Medical Devices, it already exists. Therefore, I am very much asking to vote in favour of a specific initiative, not to discuss health and price creation in general. Thank you.
ParlaMint-UA_2013-10-09-m0.u163	Please sit down, Catherine Timothy. Please sign up for the factions. The March People's Deputy, Freedom faction, is invited to the presentation.
ParlaMint-UA_2013-10-09-m0.u164	Please pass the word to Oleg Helvey.
ParlaMint-UA_2013-10-09-m0.u165	The word is passed on to the national representative of Helevé.
ParlaMint-UA_2013-10-09-m0.u166	Oleg Heleway, the All-Ukrainian Freedom Union, Kyivshina, is at the same time the deputy head of the Interim Investigation Commission for the detection of abuse in public health procurement. Yes, we're here to make money on drugs. And that's why our faction will support this bill. But I would like to draw your attention to this: the cost of drugs in Ukraine does not withstand any criticism. Especially with regard to tender purchases in the health care system. The following may be said that abuse is systemic. There are several permanent groups that supply drugs and medical equipment to the MOH, selling them at significantly higher prices, and sometimes even questionable quality. They took advantage of the fact that we, as national MPs, have released drugs, medical equipment of any tax burden, no VAT, no excise duty, no customs. It's very easy to insert offshore linings between the manufacturer and the seller, where prices are much higher and costs are being washed away. Thus, it is no wonder that the Ministry of Health buys drugs and sometimes five or seven times as much as our neighbors, such as Poland, Bulgaria, Moldova, Romania, and even the same Russia. Money laundering from the budget goes to hundreds of millions of dollars. We understand that overcoming mass abuse in the Ministry of Health in public procurement may not be cosmetic changes and unopened criminal conduct, nor may there be changes in the pseudo-regions that are being affected not only by ordinary people but also by health workers themselves. It is necessary, indeed, to make drastic changes to the entire health care system and to the part about financing both medical and medical facilities as a whole. Yes, maybe you should stop and go back to medicine with your face instead of robbing your own people? And then there will be enough medicine in the hospitals, and ours will finally feel what free medicine is, which is guaranteed to all of us by 49 articles of the Constitution. Glory to Ukraine!
ParlaMint-UA_2013-10-09-m0.u167	People's deputy Petrenko, the Fatherland faction, is invited to attend.
ParlaMint-UA_2013-10-09-m0.u168	Paul Petrenko, "Fatherland" faction. In fact, my colleague Helene raised the right subject. The question is not that we accept any point changes to legislation and rejoice in the hopes that it will cost us medicine or make our Ukrainians life better, it's not. The question is that there is no clear policy in the health system and that what the Ministry of Health does is an antinational policy aimed at taking away the health and life of our Ukrainians. And the question is very simple, look, now it's about drugs, that they should be cheaper in pharmacies. Think about it, only about four billion dollars a year are medicines that are faked or counterfeit. And these drugs are already coming through the black market on the drugstores. In addition, many things now apply to the same quality control. Now, instead of somehow solving the issue of the vaccination program, the MOH has taken a brilliant initiative: it wants to cancel the quality control of vaccines. They seemed to have made such a draft decision. What does that mean? This means that hundreds of Ukrainian children are at risk. Why? Because it turns out that 12 vaccines are needed in Ukraine that are produced in the Russian Federation and cannot pass quality control. Third. Price questions. This is a nonsensus in general, when in Ukraine the cost of imported drugs is higher than in neighbouring countries at the same time. And what does the MOH do? Instead of entering a normal reference price system. This is an example of a colleague named Zubko who is now experimenting with hypertonic drugs. In fact, hypertensive drugs used to cost between 5 and 7 bracelets in rural pharmacies. In view of the experiment, they are simply not in the country’s pharmacies, and grandmothers are required to go to district centers for pressure pills. And there are hundreds and hundreds of such examples. And the simple question is, what do we have to do? You just have to change those people who are responsible for this policy. If these people fail, and this is shown by the fact that within six months, the Ministry of Health has not given any initiative to systematically change health - care policies for the purpose of lowering the price of medicines, for the purpose of introducing the quality of these drugs, for the purpose of combating counterfeiting. It's a very simple question. If people do not know and know what to do, they must leave. With regard to this bill. The question is very simple. Indeed, the situation that has been soared that it will be cheaper to make medicines that are made by utility pharmacies. But, my friends, I'm afraid of another: if we accept this bill in this paper, we're going to give that forgery, which is four billion dollars, to legitimize through appropriate paper schemes, and it's going to be legal for our drugstores. So let's be careful not to let these things happen, because the lives of Ukrainians are worth more than any vote and any demands of officials. Thank you.
ParlaMint-UA_2013-10-09-m0.u169	The national deputy Simonenko, a faction of the Ukrainian Company, is invited to speak.
ParlaMint-UA_2013-10-09-m0.u170	Respectable citizens! Addressing you today and expressing our faction's position on the proposed project 2227, we will support the first reading. But once again, only in the first reading. In order to understand what's going on, I want to say again about our position, based on how the faction voted in the previous law - 2226. And I say no decrease, no price drop will be for the cure. And that's a long way to go. Because pharmacies are private property. And I've never seen any altruists among the oligarchs. And when they claim to lower the price, wait for it to rise several times. This will certainly be the case. And with regard to this project, should we consider, and what does this problem involve in the overall implementation of products in each pharmacy? Essentially, it's a realisation of what to drive at terrible, high prices. That is a fact. Next. We do not consider the problem of human resources. What you don't know is that today we're releasing a thousand, one and a half thousand specialists, doctors, pharmacists, but today we have, let's say, managers and others who today don't even know what drugs are doing. Why is this happening? Because drugs are now used to kill young people because they sell drugs. And you don't have to forget that. And you don't have to lie to people today that you're going to lower prices. Next. The possibility of producing these drugs today is indeed a threat. Because virtually 95 percent of people who use drugs today are under the age of 30. We are destroying Ukraine’s future today. It is destroyed by the fact that individuals today only fill their pockets. I want to emphasize once again the position of our Communist faction. The terminological sector needs to be restored to state control and urgently halt the so - called medical reform. Stop bullying the people of Ukraine! Second, it's urgent to take control of the same pharmacies. I've already said in my previous speech that these should be utility pharmacies and state pharmacies. And for control to really be a state. And the State guarantees the constitutional standard of the right to life and protection of health care, meaning the provision of services. So once again, on the first reading, the faction will vote for support, but if no concrete steps are taken to bring order in the whole of this area, and the main thing is to get the pharmacies of the people back under the control of the state. Then there'll be some results. And all these are just the conversations of some part of the oligarchs who are trying to put a few tens of billions of dollars under control and put it in their pocket.
ParlaMint-UA_2013-10-09-m0.u171	Thank you. The national deputy of Ukraine, Rosenko Pavlov, is invited to the presentation. He's giving the word to the People's Deputy Kaplan.
ParlaMint-UA_2013-10-09-m0.u172	National Deputy of Ukraine Kaplin, Poltava Region, Poltava City, 144 constituency. When the government led by Mikola Azarov, who came to power, including through the previous speaker, made a decision on how to make the government work, they chose to decide, not to increase the gross national product, but simply to reduce the number of Ukrainians. In particular, because of the genocide that is being waged today by the Ministry of Health and directly by Nicholas Azar. That is why, in recent years, there has been no public health programs in Ukraine, and that is why excessive prices are being introduced in Ukraine, and that is why smuggling in Ukraine has flourished, and we know very well who is in control of Ukrainian customs today and, together with the mafia, the Ministry of Health will bring non - quality drugs poisoned by Ukrainian pensioners and our children. That is why vaccines are distributed unevenly in different regions in Ukraine. As a result, we have examples of outbreaks in Ukraine. That's why in the last 2012 year we actually killed 104 hospitals, dumped 7,000 Ukrainian doctors and about 18,000 medical personnel. That's why in 2009, we had 230,000 removed forgeries, packages of counterfeits, and already in 2013, we have tens of many times as many as 4 million packages. 4 million precedents when your child, your family, can become hostages of a criminal purpose simply to destroy the Ukrainian people. Cut it down and reduce the cost of social programs. We need to think today about not the kind of bill that should go technically. We support this bill. Today, a very systematic serious discussion needs to be opened that health policy is an example of the government's attempt at the lives of ordinary Ukrainians. And I would like to ask the Ministry of Health and Prime Minister Azarov today to stop manipulating the lives of ordinary citizens, simple pensioners. When they write down discounts and retirees come to so - called utility pharmacies and compare the price of drugs and see that there are prices higher than in commercial pharmacies. Stop fooling pensioners. They built you roads, factories. They bought you the chairs you're sitting in for their taxes. They pay you your salary and you kill.
ParlaMint-UA_2013-10-09-m0.u173	National Deputy Seminouk, faction of the Party of the Regions.
ParlaMint-UA_2013-10-09-m0.u174	Honorary Igor Grigorovich, honourable deputies, in the proposed new edition of article 27, paragraph 1, of the Tax Code of Ukraine, proposes to exempt taxes from the added tax not only on the supply of medical supplies authorised for production and use in Ukraine and entered into the State Register of Medical Devices, including pharmacies, as well as on medical devices listed by the Cabinet of Ministers of Ukraine, but also on the provision of medical supplies manufactured by medical pharmacies for medical prescriptions and for medical and prophylactic facilities for use of active and auxiliary substances. The Explanatory Note to the Bill states that its adoption will allow for the establishment of a single order of tax benefits for the operation of medical supplies manufactured both by industry and pharmacies. and create favourable conditions to improve the provision of health care facilities and citizens with affordable medical facilities. At the same time, according to article 116, paragraph 3, of the Constitution of Ukraine, the Cabinet of Ministers of Ukraine ensures that financial pricing policies, investment and tax policies are implemented, and that a well-balanced decision on the introduction of the bill should be reached by the government. So the faction of "Regions" proposes to support this bill only on the first reading. Thank you for your attention.
ParlaMint-UA_2013-10-09-m0.u175	Factions finished speaking. People's deputies please sign up for the speech. People's Deputy Kirilenko, Fatherland faction.
ParlaMint-UA_2013-10-09-m0.u176	Viacheslav Kirilenko, Fatherland faction, Party "For Ukraine!" Well, people, of course, have a very important drug problem. Especially considering that any survey we look at -- and a pensioner spends only two things on his own -- on bread and vegetables (mainly potatoes) and on drugs that are terribly expensive and more and more inconvenient. But pensioners should, and in general, all voters also know and why this question has been discussed here for so long. Because the next issue is four bills to abolish the anti-retirement reform. Now, the Party of Regions here is playing a madman, as I say in Galicina, doing everything to discuss other issues -- just not to go to a completely failing one for them and for pension reformers. As the retirement age has increased and the budget deficit of the Pension Fund is increasing, the real weight of the pension is decreasing, there is nothing that can be bought for these pensions. Tell me, how will the authorities discuss it themselves? Then let's not defraud each other or defraud people: you don't need these days of opposition, because they don't actually happen, like hours of questions to the government. The day of opposition is going to be 2 regional laws, nothing really important to the opposition is going to pass, because everybody here is playing games, regionals, and they're doing everything they can to keep the pension issue from going away. Friday's the day of the government. Members of the Cabinet of Ministers will come, read the questions they have written, and read the answers they have prepared. Tell me, why "the hours of the government," like the days of the opposition? It's all a campaign that just takes away the budget. We need the authorities to say that although the pension reform failed, even though it hit a simple pensioner, although neither Tihypko nor anyone else has fulfilled their promises that the pension of the deputy, the minister, the prosecutor, in general, would be one of the simplest individuals -- still we have, as the authorities, this issue for the consideration of the Ukrainian Parliament will not be passed on, because it will not be convenient for us. So we're going to talk about how today, Turkey's hour, 3 hours of pharmacy, and then there's going to be half an hour now, and the Party of Regions is going to wake up, and they're going to vote for a short procedure, so that this Act, which the opposition has put in, about the nomenclature pensions, is quick to consider and not approve. To continue to receive giant pensions -- 80-90 percent of the salary, and 90 percent of all the workers' pensioners received copies, which they carry to pharmacies where the oligarches are used, which, in turn, buy non-quality drugs. And we're here pretending that we're all dealing with these issues. Shame on the authorities! Glory to Ukraine!
ParlaMint-UA_2013-10-09-m0.u177	National MP Irina Spirin, faction of the Ukrainian Company.
ParlaMint-UA_2013-10-09-m0.u178	I would like to draw the attention of the speakers and the entire Supreme Council, the deputies, to the previous bill, 2226. Cancellation of accreditation does not in any way lead to lower prices. This is very relevant and important. Next: The pharmacy can't be a store today, it can't be like a product, raise or lower the price. This is very serious, and this too needs to be addressed. With regard to the bill under consideration today, 2227. Yes, in the first reading, as Peter Nikolaevich said, we will support it, but provided that the cost of the medicines they make in pharmacies and, secondly, there will be incentives for the vulnerable, and they will actually receive valuable assistance from pharmacies.
ParlaMint-UA_2013-10-09-m0.u179	National Deputy Levchenko, faction of the Ukrainian Company.
ParlaMint-UA_2013-10-09-m0.u180	Olga Levchenko, Ukrainian Comparty faction, city-hero Kiev. We are talking about affordable drugs today, which is a very important issue. I'll give you an example of Kiev. Kiev City Blood Center. In this centre, the production of blood-based drugs, based on plasma, was closed for many years this year. Informal version: “because of the lack of budgetary resources”, as medicines were shipped to hospitals in the city of Kiev free of charge. To close easily, to build, hands don't come. For several years now, since the time of Chernevski, there has been an unfinished building on Zoological Street, 3. As a deputy, I have repeatedly addressed Popov Alexander Pavlovich and Prime Minister Nikolai Azarov, but in response to some of the letters and promises. In part, funds were planned in the Kiev budget, but have not yet been developed, “and the train is now there”. Kiev's city center of blood continues to be unrepaired. The plasma produced is four tons, and it's already starting to go at ridiculous prices for commercial enterprises. So think, at what cost are the drugs going to get to the kievs? Kiev is the capital, and this is the tenth part of the Ukrainian population. It's a disgrace that we have a blood center in such a deplorable state. The normal functioning of both the city's blood center and the production of blood-based drugs is vital. The production of albumin, immunoglobulin, has been destroyed. The production unit is placed on the labour market, especially the Kievyan, and the oligarchs continue to benefit from the misery of the people. Once again, I personally address Nikolai Janović Azarov: pay attention to the capital, resolve the issue of Kiev's Blood Center and resume the production of blood-based drugs in the capital. Thank you.
ParlaMint-UA_2013-10-09-m0.u181	People's deputy Kanovec, non-factional.
ParlaMint-UA_2013-10-09-m0.u182	Oleg Kanovac, 126th constituency, Stryština is a Jew. Please pass the word to Vasil Pazinjuk.
ParlaMint-UA_2013-10-09-m0.u183	Turn on the armchair microphone.
ParlaMint-UA_2013-10-09-m0.u184	Dear fellow MPs, I want to argue why this bill needs to be supported. Of course, I agree that he will only be able to solve the issue with a dot, but he needs to be resolved. Because today of the 21,000 pharmacies in Ukraine, only 440 is less than three percent -- you can call them pharmacies. Because pharmacies once, when they were not destroyed, were used in every pharmacy to speak to a doctor in one language of prescriptions, and every pharmacy was made with medicine. To date, only 440 pharmacies still have real pharmacists, and other pharmacies have turned into drug stores. And when there's television advertising today, when there's advertising all over the world today, that leads to an increase in the number of available forms of medicine and an increase in mortality. And for today, we need to support those 440 pharmacies that still have prescription compartments. They're unprofitable because the pharmacy has a prescription department. The need for its area to be more than 100 square meters is a special requirement of the sansation. And we have to support them if we don't want them to disappear at all like pharmacies -- and we're only going to have drug stores, and vodka -- as my colleagues tell me. That's why we have to support them, because these pharmacies make cheap drugs: eye drops, medicines for viral diseases, ointments -- they're a lot cheaper than ready medical forms. If, for example, some drops cost five dollars, the finished medical form costs 30 - 40 dollars. Of course, the pensioners, the disabled, want to serve in those pharmacies where there are prescriptions where they can buy the drugs they need cheaper. Thank you. And please support this bill as a basis.
ParlaMint-UA_2013-10-09-m0.u185	People's Deputy Kucheruk, Fatherland faction.
ParlaMint-UA_2013-10-09-m0.u186	Dear colleagues! I want to get back to history today. As you remember, the government of Julia Timoshenko has adopted the Order and introduced only a 50 percent allowance for medical supplies that should be sold in our pharmacies. Do you remember what happened then? Yushchenko vetoes, everyone starts yelling that we're going to lose everything, the drugs, we're not going to have anything, we're going to collapse? Not missing, but failed. Therefore, instead of adopting these laws that you are adopting today, it is necessary to tell people clearly and clearly that in Ukraine medicines should cost no more than in neighboring countries. Doesn't anyone understand that in this room? Probably because our medical devices are expensive in the world, and our pensioners who receive thousands of dollars, just a thousand dollars, they spend 80 percent of their budget on medical supplies. So where is the responsibility of the Ukrainian Parliament, please? Where are laws that will lower the cost of medical supplies? We're saying that today this law that we're adopting needs to be freed from VAT. All right, we'll back up and we'll get rid of it. But where is the position of the Ministry of Health today when two bills are being considered? Why are they not invited to Parliament today? And we don't hear what they're gonna tell us. But, you know, I'll tell you one more precaution. Today, when we talk about manufacturing in pharmacies, and we know that only 400 pharmacies in Ukraine are able to produce drugs. Are there all those conditions for making quality medications? Because any pharmacy -- we all know from history -- it was a doctor's prescription drug factory. This is a strong pharmacy facility. So if we're going to deny accreditation today, I'm going to tell you that I support: stores shouldn't be accredited. And here are the pharmacies that make the drugs, and they have to be controlled. And to conclude today, I would like to say. These laws that we pass, they won't lead to a price drop, they'll lead to that.
ParlaMint-UA_2013-10-09-m0.u187	Have a seat, please. National Deputy Cibenko, faction of the Company of Ukraine.
ParlaMint-UA_2013-10-09-m0.u188	Communist faction, Peter Cibenko, head of the Ukrainian Veterans' Council. Dear colleagues, respected citizens of Ukraine, we are today discussing an extremely topical issue, not just an important issue, but a vital issue. I did not say by accident that I have the honour to lead the Ukrainian veterans' organization today, because for the veterans, for the pensioners, for the disabled, the issue of quality of medicine, the question of availability of medicines, the question of timely medical care, it is indeed a question, without exaggeration, of life and death. And so it wasn't by chance that my predecessors, the leaders of the Ukrainian veteran organization, had initiated the creation of a network of veteran pharmacies that allowed a veteran to get a medicine, to get medicine at a cheaper price. But unfortunately, recently, after the pharmaceutical sector, how this field of activity has become a business, and, unfortunately, extremely high-income, they have virtually been destroyed throughout Ukraine. And that's why we have to support, at least in the first reading of this document, because we have to work on it quite seriously. But I also want to talk about the other position of the faction of the Company of Ukraine. We are, indeed, standing here today and strategically insisting on abolishing the so-called shameful "medical reform," because what is being done today in the field of medicine is no reform. It's at least, it's an anti-reformation with all the consequences that come out of it. I want to thank the factions of the Ukrainian Company today for their contribution to the faction in the April months of this year to the joint meeting of the Ukrainian Veterans' Bureau and the College of the Ministry of Health, where we raised the issue of very high availability, the quality of medical care for seniors. I want to say that we invited representatives, deputy governors on humanitarian issues, invited hospital chiefs, invited medical science, and indeed there was a very careful discussion of this very important problem. So, honourable colleagues, this problem needs to be addressed not periodically, not from the bill to the bill, but systematically. In order for Ukrainian citizens to have a normal opportunity to protect their health. Thank you.
ParlaMint-UA_2013-10-09-m0.u189	Thank you, Peter Stepanovich, sit down. The discussion is over. It's a closing statement. Does the reporter have a wish? Shipko Andri Fedorovich.
ParlaMint-UA_2013-10-09-m0.u190	Dear colleagues, distinguished voters! I thank you for your support and for the fine discussion we have all had today. And you, the honourable voters, see all of this in plain sight. I want to say to you that there will be no miracles: the medicine will not be cheaper tomorrow. But these bills that we've jointly voted with you today, like 2226, 2227, are those little steps that will lead to quality and cheap drugs in our country and to a transparent system on the pharmaceutical market, as adopted in all the world's nations. Thank you for your attention and please support this bill.
ParlaMint-UA_2013-10-09-m0.u191	Thank you. Vaszczuk Katerina Timofievna, do you have a wish, a closing word? You don't. Ladies and gentlemen, please prepare for the vote. I would like to vote on the draft Law (Registration No. 2227) amending paragraph 197.1.27, paragraph 197.1 of article 197 of the Ukrainian Tax Code on the creation of favourable conditions to improve the provision of health care facilities and citizens with affordable medical facilities. Please vote. [[13:24:30.]] For 256 Decision taken. Factions: Region Party - 104, Fatherland - 42, Vitalia Klicka - 28, Freedom - 34, Ukrainian Company - 30, non-fractional - 18. The draft Act (registration 1236) amending certain laws of Ukraine (concerning the principle of social justice in pension insurance) is being introduced. A proposal is made for consideration of the reduced procedure. Please vote. [[13:25:21]] For 135 The decision is not taken. The rapporteur is Ukrainian national deputy Rosenko Pavlov Valeriyovich. Please. Turn on the factions. Region Party 3, Fatherland 67, Vitaly Klicka-19, Freedom 34, Ukrainian Company 0, non-fractional -12. Report.
ParlaMint-UA_2013-10-09-m0.u192	Dear National Deputies! First of all, I would like to ask the chairman to invite all the people's deputies to the session hall right now, because the opposition sectors are fully filled, the deputies are present, and unfortunately there is no representation of the Party of Regions on such socially important issues today. So I'd like to invite the national MPs. Now, on the substance of the bill and on the motivations that prompted the Faction Impact to introduce a prescribed bill on pension justice and the introduction of the only principles for pensioning. Of course, our first motive is to correct the mistakes of pension reform and give the Ukrainians a chance to retire. The other one. The thesis on the only principles for the accrual of pensions is the main, as it were, point before the election program "BACK". The hit promised the voters to settle the issue of pension justice, and we're doing it. That's why we urge all the political forces to keep in mind the promises you've all made to Ukrainian citizens, and today we're all taking steps to ensure that the only principles of pensioning are met. All of you, both political parties and majors, have promised their voters to make the pension system in Ukraine fair. What's going on now? Today, average pensions in Ukraine for ordinary people range from about 900 to 1200 dollars. Three million Ukrainians are now receiving pensions of less than 1,000 dollars. It is virtually impossible to see these costs today. At the same time, the taxpayers today have a pension of 6.5,000 dollars, judges of 7.5 thousand, prosecutors of 7,000 dollars, former national deputies and higher-level officials now have about 15,000 dollars! So the gap between the pensions of ordinary Ukrainians and officials today is 15 times. This imbalance is perfectly understandable. Today, pension legislation regulates about 20 laws in Ukraine. So in fact, there are 20 pension systems in our state today. And such a cumbersome and unjust system has no right to continue to exist. Because there is no right to have a system in which a teacher’s pension, a doctor’s pension, a cultural worker’s pension, an ordinary worker, an engineer is counted as about 45 percent of the salary. The pension is between 80 percent and 90 percent of the salaries of various officials. The government keeps telling us that the Chernobylites cannot, for example, pay a proper pension according to the laws of Ukraine, the Chernobyl laws. Today, the Chernobyl pension is about 2.5-3 thousand dollars. On the other hand, the government has to pay today and has the opportunity to pay 8, 10, 15 thousand dollars for the poor categories of pensioners! So where is justice today asking our society? So social justice in the assignment of pensions is what people expected from pension reform. And that's the social justice that this pension reform didn't give people. We are well aware that the process of moving to the only principles of retirement is not easy. But today we must take the first step. And this first step we have to make of ourselves. Today, we, the Faction UDA, are proposing to begin the transition to the only principles for the retirement of Ukrainian National Deputies, from the pensions of the President of Ukraine, from the pensions of members of the Cabinet of Ministers of Ukraine and other officials. Our bill proposes the transfer of the pension insurance of the President of Ukraine, the national deputies of Ukraine and members of the government into the general pension insurance system. We propose that all these categories of officials be granted a pension under the Single Law on Stately Compulsory Pension Insurance. So that's the same way as 90 percent of our Ukrainian citizens. Today, the Supreme Council of Ukraine can make a historic and right decision. And the strike faction refers to all the national MPs, regardless of their faction, not to react to the fact that this law, imposed by the opposition, does not look at the authors of this bill. We need to make a professional decision today. And now that I have completed my report, I would certainly like to address the representatives of the Party of the Regions first. I understand why you don't vote for the abolition of pension reform, because you think it needs extra funding from the state budget. Today we offer you solutions that add additional resources to the Ukrainian Pension Fund, which can be used to raise pensions for ordinary Ukrainians. We're giving you a chance to get out of that shameful pension reform that you've driven yourself into. I wanted, of course, to go to Sergio Leonidovich Tihypak, but he's not in the hall right now, and I would like to remind you that in the adoption of the pension reform, including he promised us as minister of social policy that pension reform would not stop at the height of the retirement age. And the next step in pension reform will be the question of cancelling this unjust pension system for officials. Today is the time, distinguished members of the People’s Party of the Regions, today is the time to fulfill those promises that you promised the community in the implementation of the pension reform. Today we have to vote in favour of this bill, because you understand for yourself, and you see that the tensions in society around pension issues are on the rise today. And on the other hand, the government today gives us no answer as to how the pension system will continue to develop. The year has already been appointed the new Minister of Social Policy, Natalia Kraljevska. What did she offer us in the pension system in a year? Nothing. Zero. We can't do this today. And today we have the only opportunity to take responsibility and thus force the government to think about pensioners, to think about the future of the pension system. And that's why I urge all of you today to support the strike initiative and to establish the only principles for pensioning, and to bring about order and justice in Ukraine's pension system. Thank you for your attention. [[Applause]]
ParlaMint-UA_2013-10-09-m0.u193	People's deputies please sign up for questions. People's Deputy Kaplin, Vitaly Klicka faction.
ParlaMint-UA_2013-10-09-m0.u194	People's Deputy Kaplin, Vitalia Klitschka Faction, Poltava, 144 constituency. Dear colleague, please tell us your position on how the deputies of the previous appeals, which have been held in Parliament for 20 years and 20 years, have led the country to a standstill. Now, however, they're getting a pension by manipulating the pension law that most people are protecting today. Do you not think that this is a certain conspiracy against ordinary people who are seriously affected by such social inequality? On the one hand, the teacher, who taught all the time, including the children of these deputies, counts the coins. In a village of 60 years old, a woman must have two cows to live with her husband. The same is true of grandmothers who have to sell apples on their parapets. And MPs like Vitrenco, for example, fight for it.
ParlaMint-UA_2013-10-09-m0.u195	Thank you, Mr. Sergei, for asking. I want to say that in fact, if you take from a separate pension system that we have today, you can certainly say that there is a progressive note in this pension system. But somehow this progressive note applies only to the common people. Because we have again, once again, 20 laws of Ukraine, which today actually this pension system is the only one, in fact it's broken. And we can't really explain to a person why a teacher gets 45 percent of his salary and a Ukrainian national deputy 90 percent of his salary. We need to be clear today, honourable members of the People's Party of the Regions, can't wait tens of years in the village for justice, tens of years for the state to expect at least 10 dollars from it, but today's pension payments will go up. So once again, I appeal to your consciousness. That's a step.
ParlaMint-UA_2013-10-09-m0.u196	National deputy of Bidyovka, faction of the Ukrainian Company.
ParlaMint-UA_2013-10-09-m0.u197	Please give the word to Alexander Zubčevski.
ParlaMint-UA_2013-10-09-m0.u198	Turn on the microphone of the people's deputy Zubczewski.
ParlaMint-UA_2013-10-09-m0.u199	Zubchevsky, the Communist faction. Please tell me, I am looking closely at the ranks of your faction, and I see that almost a large part of your faction is missing. Look at the Communist faction: we are fully prepared to vote in favour of your bill. So please tell me, if you do not provide your own deputies today, how will the positive vote be for the bill you are proposing. Please also tell us honestly that previous draft laws on the abolition of pension reform failed because of the alleged non-discipline of your deputies, and we believe that they were specially present at the meeting at the time when these bills were being considered. Please bear the responsibility for the failure of those bills to abolish the pension reform that your representatives of the factions and the Communist factions have introduced. [[B in m in s a l in]]
ParlaMint-UA_2013-10-09-m0.u200	You know, I'm ready to give my glasses to Mr. Zubczewski right now so he can take a close look at the Vitalia Klicka sector, which is actually filled with 100 percent today. Today, all the Ukrainian National Deputies are present in the session room. There are several people in the hospital. Today, we will provide almost full voting for our bill, for our initiative. And please talk to your allies in the Party of Regions, with whom you vote on corruption, anti-national bills, so they can bring their deputies, not hide behind corners, not vote for pension reform. Therefore, I say, when something seems to be, baptism is said to be in the nation.
ParlaMint-UA_2013-10-09-m0.u201	Have a seat, please. The report invites the head of the Committee on Pensioners, Veterans, and Disabled Persons, Suškevich Valeriy Mihajlovich.
ParlaMint-UA_2013-10-09-m0.u202	Thank you. Honorary colleagues, the Committee on Pensioners, Veterans and Disabled Persons, reviewed the draft Law amending certain laws of Ukraine regarding social justice in pensions. The members of the committee considered this bill very important, because it is, in fact, focused on upholding the principle of social justice in pension insurance, which is unfortunately not yet available today. I would like to present some of the statistics that have been discussed on the committee today to the National Deputies. Ladies and gentlemen, I want to say that 2.4 million pensioners -- 18 percent of pensioners today survive, or don't survive, for 1,000 dollars. You know, I was just head of the committee at the parliamentary reception, and the economists of the upper class came in, the older woman. When she told me that she was receiving 110 dollars and how she survived, and she simply asked why there were special laws for senior officials, for ministers, for the Prime Minister of Ukraine, for the President of Ukraine, why there were special laws for national deputies, it was difficult for me to answer from the point of view of our legislative work in that direction. I want to say another number: 56 percent of pensioners get a $1,200 pension, which is also impossible to survive for today. In general, more than 10 million people receive pensions at the level of 14,471 bracelets, that is, at the level of the average pension. It's a pitfall, it's a pitiful payout, it's not a pension, it's a pension payment for which 10 million pensioners, and that's 73 percent of pensioners in general, survive after a pension reform. Therefore, the committee, when considering the bill, understood the legislative rules set out in the bill. The bill proposes amendments to the Ukrainian Law "On the Status of the People's Deputies of Ukraine", to the Ukrainian Law "On the Cabinet of Ministers of Ukraine", which establishes that the pension insurance of national deputies and former members of the Cabinet of Ministers is carried out on a general basis in accordance with the Ukrainian Law "On the General Compulsory State Pension Insurance". In addition, National Deputy Rosenko in this bill sets and proposes amendments to the Law on National Insurance, to foresee and refer insured persons, such as the President of Ukraine, members of the Cabinet of Ministers, national deputies of Ukraine, we are with you, dear friends, to establish that the extent of their pension payments is determined solely by the Act on General Compulsory State Pension Insurance, such as for all citizens of Ukraine. And it was the principle of social justice that was supported by all members of the committee, and this bill was supported by a committee meeting. I'm noting that the Chief Scientific and Experimental Authority is somehow proposing to reject this bill, and I'm going to take this as a situation for consideration of this bill. The Committee on Budgetary Questions proposes that it be sent for further work. But when I go back to the committee members' opinion, I would like to express my personal opinion that this bill is based on what our electorate, the Ukrainian citizens, demands that the law, the pension law, act in the same way for all of us. And so that the principles of pension accounting are imperfect, often unfair, but they would be the same for everyone, and then they could be changed as a percentage as social justice. Thank you for your attention. Please support the bill.
ParlaMint-UA_2013-10-09-m0.u203	People's deputies please sign up for questions. National deputy of Matthew's faction of the Ukrainian Company.
ParlaMint-UA_2013-10-09-m0.u204	Please pass the word to your colleague Sergio Gordienko.
ParlaMint-UA_2013-10-09-m0.u205	Please. Sergei Gordianka's microphone.
ParlaMint-UA_2013-10-09-m0.u206	Thank you very much, Valentin Grigorovich, for passing on the questions. Actually, I don't have a specific question before Suškević. But to him and to Paul Rosenck’s previous commentator. The authorities had just signed a memorandum with the International Monetary Fund, and I remind you that the previous reporter was then the first deputy of the Ministry, namely, social policy and you've been hiding, and there were already pension reform mechanisms and retirement age rises. In 2008, you passed the State Budget Act of Ukraine and then 112 laws, you eliminated social guarantees. And at the last vote, they left the hall when they had passed. So do you have moral and political responsibility for the fact that pension reform is in such a disgraceful way in Ukraine today. Because that's what you're up to.
ParlaMint-UA_2013-10-09-m0.u207	Valerius Mikhailovich, please.
ParlaMint-UA_2013-10-09-m0.u208	Dear colleagues! As to your question. You know, as head of the Supreme Council of Ukraine's Committee on Pensioners, Veterans and Disabled Persons at the time, I had a consultation with Prime Minister Timoshenko on what touched the requirements of the International Monetary Fund. And I can tell you, based on the advice that they were present at: The Ministry of Finance, the Ministry of Economics, the Ministry of Social Policy -- I'm head of the committee, Prime Minister Timoshenko himself said that today we will not go to this option of increasing retirement age. I personally heard what was said. And today, I can also point out that the first option of modernising pensions, which is now one of the pressing problems with the fact that the pensions of our citizens are dependent not on internships and earnings, but on the timing of the appointment, has also been considered, and it was at that time that decisions were made for the first time on the modernisation of pensions, which today must be continued, which unfortunately are not being considered.
ParlaMint-UA_2013-10-09-m0.u209	The reply will be in the closing statement, you must say. Zabzaluk National Deputy, Fatherland faction.
ParlaMint-UA_2013-10-09-m0.u210	Fatherland Party, Yulia Timoshenko. I give the word to the colleague of Paul.
ParlaMint-UA_2013-10-09-m0.u211	Turn on the Pavlovsky microphone.
ParlaMint-UA_2013-10-09-m0.u212	Andrew Pavlovsky, "Fatherland." I have a question for the authors and heads of the committee. If you talk about the principles of social justice in retirement, you can't forget categories like corrupt and corrupt judges, prosecutors who want to open a case for money want to shut down. So we're leaving them 7 or 10 thousand dollars of pension for breaking people's fate? So I'm asking you to add more judges and prosecutors to that list. And let's not forget those working pensioners, and we have two of them: Azarov and Janukovic, who, apart from their huge wages, get huge pensions. So you have to talk about justice so that everyone gets there, so that the only formula for the pension is the only formula.
ParlaMint-UA_2013-10-09-m0.u213	Turn on Suskevitch Valery Mikhailovich.
ParlaMint-UA_2013-10-09-m0.u214	Thank you for asking Paul’s colleague. And I want to say, as chairman of the committee, hopefully, honourable colleagues, hoping that this bill will be supported by Parliament, in the second reading, we will consider all the proposals concerning what concerns other people, other categories of government officials, and privileged pensioners regarding equal rights, pension rights, as regards the general principles of pensioning for all citizens of Ukraine. I do hope for the support of this bill. In our second reading, we will definitely consider these suggestions. Thank you.
ParlaMint-UA_2013-10-09-m0.u215	Please sign up for the factions. National MP Paul Rosenko, Vitalia Klitschka faction.
ParlaMint-UA_2013-10-09-m0.u216	Paul Rosenko. I'm going to use the last word, and I'm going to pass on the word to Sergey Kaplin.
ParlaMint-UA_2013-10-09-m0.u217	Sergey Kaplin, Poltava, 144 constituency, political party Vitaly Call for Impact." Do Countries Need Unpopular Reforms? The more relevant this question is when we are at the threshold of the European Union. It is because of unpopular reforms that we will be able to survive in Europe and we will be able, I believe, to become a leader in Europe in due course. And I dream that in due course the President of the new European Union will become a Ukrainian, and, better yet, a hitter, but we need to start first of all with ourselves. We have no moral right to discriminate in the social aspects of pensioners and those representing power today. We should not do that today in such a way that people look at us -- and we are sad to see how we discriminate against the MP and the pensioner who built this country for us. How can this be resolved? Where, in fact, to find money to overcome deficits. Deficit budget? This is primarily the President's expense. How could it be in a civilized country that one president's service per day cost 1 million dollars, and one pensioner's service cost less than 30 dollars? That's not possible! Could it be that an unhappy grandmother who in the city is forced to trade on a parapet with apples to live and, at the same time, deputies who for 10 years have not been members of the Supreme Council have continued to receive their wages? In the past, there were so-called "leaders" who fought for so-called "social justice." Could it be that the budget provides 250-270 million dollars a year for the construction of new houses for the DUSA, the administration of the President of Ukraine, and twice as much for the travel of the President? At the same time, in a village where a woman 60 years old with her husband has to hold one or two cows to feed herself? Is it fair when, as I have pointed out, the President's flights, the transport of deputies, charters for the Prime Minister, ministers, vice-premiers are spent billions of dollars? Consider: Every year, 80 billion dollars are stolen from the country’s budget by the official report of the Ukrainian Security Service, the Ministry of Internal Affairs! That's exactly what it takes to stabilize the Pension Fund's work today. So our position is clear: you have to start with yourself. And strike, as he has announced in his election programs, will fight for the rights of ordinary people, pensioners, young people who will also be retired in their own time and order in pension legislation. And we will lead to the responsibility of those who have done so today.
ParlaMint-UA_2013-10-09-m0.u218	National MP Jaroslav Suhi, faction of the Party of the Regions.
ParlaMint-UA_2013-10-09-m0.u219	Dear colleagues, I'm breaking principles today. I've never made a statement from this rostrum, not in the essence of a bill. But today. Help your husband there because he's sick. But today, when I've been listening all day to the stupid accusation of the Party of Regions that we're not voting in favour of a reduced procedure, I have to say that the political pervs, many of whom are in this room, have become the norm, from a sick head to a healthy one. Please tell me, have you supported us once when we proposed to vote on the short procedure for the bills that really need it? You've got a lot of fun going on, and you've got to be happy. Most of you haven't gotten a vote! Fellow MPs, you're all deputies, irresponsibility has its limits. And now, about that, I think it has. Today should be a good lesson for us and for you. If we're talking about renaming a populated item, well, what do you not understand is that we have to vote for a reduced procedure? Now essentially proposed by a colleague of the bill, so the only principle of pension payments. I want to remind you, especially the majors, you know this subject, you're counting these pensions yourself. The only principle is, in Ukraine, five types of pension benefits: social pension, pension for the loss of a breadwinner, pension for the pension. invalidity, retirement pension and pension based on the National Pension Insurance Act. What is the only principle? The other one. Marjorie deputies, in your reception as I do, your assistants can immediately count the size of your pension. According to our law: internship, insurance, salary, and, if there are, special merit before the state -- rewards, honors and the like. How many Ukrainian national deputies today are retired? Especially is this young man with brilliant eyes who was there talking about Azarov, and you look at your faction, at your pensioners who are sitting next to you! Today, in Ukraine, 648 pensioners, former deputies of 13.5 million pensioners. Is that gonna make any difference? I figured, even if they were all eliminated, their payouts -- and it's impossible to do that, because they all worked somewhere -- it's going to be 0.64 bracelets per retiree. Is it worth talking about? It's a pyar, a primitive political speculation. And the last. The size of the salary of the Ukrainian National Deputy, like the ministers, will allow us to do what we have already done to you – we have limited ourselves. People, remember! Ukraine’s national deputy retires, can’t get more than 10 minimum pensions. But that's what we are now. This is the same principle for you. At a salary of 15,000, split it in half, add internships and special merits. What are you talking about?Oh, my God! What are you talking about? What principles? I would like to emphasize again.
ParlaMint-UA_2013-10-09-m0.u220	Thank you. People's Deputy Kilinkarov, faction of the Company of Ukraine.
ParlaMint-UA_2013-10-09-m0.u221	Ladies and gentlemen of the people! [[B in m in s a l in]] Respectable radio audiences! I would like to remind you of the little background of the issue that we are considering with you today. The members of the Supreme Council decided on this shameful pension reform after the end of their term of office. Who voted in favour of this decision? The decision was voted by a faction of the Party of the Regions and prisoners of war, who represented the BUT faction, who today sits in the same room and initiates its draft laws on the matter. I would also like to recall that, since the beginning of the session, our plenary meetings have been a new assembly of parliament, except for the leader of the Communist faction Peter Nikolaevich Simonek. As a member of the Conciliation Council, no one raised that question. It is only through the efforts of our faction that we have updated this issue, and it has become on the agenda today. In fact, today we had to consider six bills on this issue. As far as the essence of the bill is concerned, he certainly is. The bill that we are currently considering does not address the issue of social justice, but at least it allows the deputies today to recognize that all Ukrainian citizens should have equal rights, including in respect of pension insurance. The Communist faction made a decision. We are prepared to support all the six bills that have been tabled in this room today and the entire faction to a single MP has been mobilized and is sitting in this room. I want to remind those who are sitting in red Chinese T-shirts. You're the one who failed the pension reform vote! You didn't give six votes to get Peter Nikolaevich Simonenko's bill to be adopted by the Supreme Council! But speaking of this, I'd like to look at it a little bit more. In order to secure a decent pension, it is necessary to create new jobs and pay full real wages. I remind you: 52 million people, the Soviet people of Ukraine have provided 24 million working people with legal and decent wages. Today, in order to provide 13 million Ukrainian citizens, we must provide 11 million workers! Those who do not receive full wages but receive part in envelopes. That is why I turn to the beavers in this room for the budget. Learn to pay taxes - and then we will be able to restore a just pension reform with you and pay people's pensions justly! Thank you for your attention.
ParlaMint-UA_2013-10-09-m0.u222	Thank you, Spiridon Pavlovich. I continue the morning plenary session of the Supreme Council of Ukraine for 15 minutes. Switzerland, National MP, Freedom faction. Passes the word to Leon.
ParlaMint-UA_2013-10-09-m0.u223	Dear National Deputies! Edward Leonov, the All-Ukrainian Freedom Union. Crimea, Sevastopol. This is the question, the question of this bill, when it was discussed in our profile committee, of course, which was immediately approved. But if we are to speak professionally, we need to find out who will benefit from this bill. Unfortunately, this bill will not help that elderly woman who is looking for a job in order to extend her employment now in order to finally get a pension. This bill is not going to help my mother retiree, who is now on her birthday and who has worked her entire life as a teacher of Ukrainian language and literature, and is now receiving a thousand dollars' pension. This bill will not help those who die without retirement or receiving no day of peaceful retirement guaranteed by the State in the Constitution. This bill will not help pensioners. This bill helps only one person: it helps to feel justice. It's basically called "To Establish a Fair Principles of Retirement." Because, as very intelligent professionals, pensioners, pension reformers here have just said, they said that only 64 kips would be for every pensioner in Ukraine, if you share that money with those people who are currently receiving an undeserved pension. They won't get it! If so, you should know that the Pension Fund does not have the money to pay these large pensions to deputies, ministers, judges, prosecutors, and others. All this money goes to the State Budget Pension Fund every year. Because there's only money in the Pension Fund for those minimum, low-income pensions. And that's not enough, the pension fund is constantly in crisis. But we should have enough conscience right now, because right now we need to talk not about numbers, but about conscience, we need to talk about what we're talking about in order to give ourselves, beloved, a pension right now. This pension doesn't go to pay off the pension payments to people who get the minimum, I've already talked about it because there's no pension fund. It is only one thing: we must be accountable, responsible not only to our electorate but primarily to ourselves. We're nationals. And you and I should, right now, urge everyone to go back to the session room and vote, as one, unanimously, unanimously, to vote now in order to be the same as other Ukrainian citizens, not a separate caste, who receives large pensions, and others cannot. Therefore, dear friends, if you want to remain respectful, vote for this bill, vote for yourself, for your conscience, and for your dignity. "Freedom" will support this bill.
ParlaMint-UA_2013-10-09-m0.u224	Yavorowski National Deputy, Fatherland faction.
ParlaMint-UA_2013-10-09-m0.u225	Vladimir Yavorowski, Fatherland, Troyshina. The Society would do so in my place every real man would do so and give the word to a charming woman, the best social minister of all years of independence, Ludmila Denisova.
ParlaMint-UA_2013-10-09-m0.u226	Thank you very much, my dear colleague. Ladies and gentlemen, I would like to remind everyone that the Government of Timoshenko in 2008, in 2009, made a similar proposal and this proposal was not supported in this room. We also tried to make the pension system fair. Only there did we add these judges, prosecutors, and other high - ranking workers. I would also like to state with full responsibility, as Minister of Labour and Social Policy in 2007-2010, that we have not signed any memorandum. And since our government has not been oppressed by our Prime Minister personally, we have not signed any memorandum. We didn't raise the retirement age for women, and we didn't get 10 years of retirement, and we didn't take the insurance. But we remember another story. We remember when 70 national deputies were on board at night, 226, we made this decision about the so - called pension reform. And what happened? In one night, they changed the fate of all Ukrainian citizens, took women's pensions, because at 55 years of age, they could no longer retire, and they were deprived of that right. They've given each of them 10 years of insurance, and there's no work! In the last two years, there has been a 4 - to 6 - percent increase in unemployment among men and women. What does that mean? What did they go to make? But there's nowhere to make money. That's why we're here. What was the authorities even trying to do? She tried by this pension law to increase the possibility that the Pension Fund would be inefficient. Did she get it? No, it's not. This is the dream of the minister of social policy, the minister and the government of Yanukovich and Azarov. One out of three bracelets was borrowed in 2012 to pay the pension. Therefore, we must be supportive of this law by means of all the factions. But we're going to try to get these judges, which now, sorry, I'm only going to bring to you the fact that 30,000 pensioners -- that's the social category that gets a total of 13 million per month, per year, and a thousand judges get 12 million per year. So you realize that it's 40 times everyone gets a higher pension. That is why we uphold justice and fight for it. Thank you.
ParlaMint-UA_2013-10-09-m0.u227	People's deputies please sign up for the speech. National MP Momot, faction of the Party of the Regions.
ParlaMint-UA_2013-10-09-m0.u228	National MP Momot, Dnipropetrovsk, Party of Regions. Please pass the word to Jaroslav Sukh.
ParlaMint-UA_2013-10-09-m0.u229	Turn on the microphone of the national MP Jaroslav Suhogo.
ParlaMint-UA_2013-10-09-m0.u230	Lukyanov.
ParlaMint-UA_2013-10-09-m0.u231	Honorable citizens of Ukraine, distinguished colleagues of national MPs! I wanted you to be responsible for both your responsibilities and your responsibilities. Now we've heard here from a few officials in the past who worked in the social field about what sweet things they were talking about here. But we do well to remember that Mrs. Denisova, who was on the scene right now, paid the very pitiful pension of all time, which was the worst situation in the country. Did we forget when the bracelet dropped to ten dollars a dollar and the pension was less than 500 dollars, 498 dollars? And it wasn't once, for King Panka, it was three years ago. In three years, the pension was nearly doubled. And we realize that's a small amount, that we have to do even more. But for this to work, the economy needs to adopt responsible laws. Those laws that ensure the growth of the real manufacturing sector. Those laws that ensure the competitiveness of our state, not talking about it like it used to be. Have you forgotten that it was you who urged people to put all the money in your purse into deposits? And some of the deputies present in this room at this time were buying those cheap dollars, and then in two or three days, the bracelet dropped twice a week. Has it been forgotten or not? Should Names Be Called? So do not lie to people. Repent and go away if you can work. You can -- support those proposals that are offered by a constructive, responsible political power -- what the Party of Regions is doing right now. We realize that in a situation of global crisis, it is very difficult to ensure stability. But look at the European countries, look at France, Italy, I'm not even talking about Greece and Iceland, where cars are burning, the windows are breaking down, the banks are breaking down. We provide stability, we pay pensions on time, we pay wages on time. We're saving our nation. And all those who, in order for Ukraine to be a strong, independent, free state, must support the Party of Regions. Thank you for your attention.
ParlaMint-UA_2013-10-09-m0.u232	National MP Paul Rosenko, Vitalia Klitschka faction.
ParlaMint-UA_2013-10-09-m0.u233	Paul Rosenko. Well, the previous speaker says, "Let's support the initiative of the Party of Regions." I'm curious. In three years in retirement, what were your initiatives? Raise your retirement age, raise your insurance? Do you want these initiatives to support the opposition? But it never will be. You got it. You talk about anything that doesn't limit your pensions. We see that clearly and clearly. Because if you talk about, you know, the results of your activity, I'm just not a politician, but as an expert, let me tell you, look at the data from the State Department. In the first three years, your pension was increased by 166 percent. Now in three of your years, you've increased your pension by 50 percent, and your trustees have worked three times better in retirement than you have! And this whole lie that someone there signed with the IMF some kind of retirement-age deal, so let me tell you, it's a lie. For the first time, a contract with the International Monetary Fund raised the pension age in 2010, signed by Azarov, and Arbuzov as head of the National Bank of Ukraine. This is your responsibility, and let's not lie. Now, let's talk about the next one. I would like to have a professional discussion with Mr. Suhim and to be a little limited to my emotions. You're talking about the fact that the case is resolved, the pension reform is so brilliant that we've made restrictions on the pensions of all high-ranking people. And you know, colleagues, that there is already a Constitutional Court decision and that there is already one category of citizens in Ukraine, and these are the judges for whom the Constitutional Court has declared such a restriction of pensions unconstitutional? And we already have one category of citizens who can get a pension of 20, 30, 40,000 dollars. That's what your wrong methods have led to. Because the only mechanism for limiting pensions can be the only principles for the accrual of pensions that we are proposing today. Let's not "exhale," let's make political decisions. There is a need to limit pensions today! You say, "What's that going to do?".. Yeah, it's like a penny, but it'll give you confidence in the pension system. Why do four million Ukrainians today refuse to pay contributions to the pension system? Because they say, "Why do I have to pay insurance premiums -- and get a 45 percent pension from my salary? And an official who pays the same pension benefits gets 90 percent of his salary?" With this kind of pension system, we never legalize work, and we never get it.
ParlaMint-UA_2013-10-09-m0.u234	Thank you, Paul Valeriovich. Lukyanov National Deputy, faction of the Party of the Regions. The national deputy Momot gave the floor to the national deputy Lukyanov at first. The Lukyan people’s deputy is now on record. Please.
ParlaMint-UA_2013-10-09-m0.u235	Dear Mr. Rosenko, you've worked, you've worked personally as the first deputy in the Ministry of Social Policy, and you need to know, you can't help but know that it was the Party of Regions that restricted large pensions, that it was the Party of Regions that took on the unpopular responsibility for the fact that the extra large pensions that were paid to you, and those who worked with you, what we did, against officials, were not. It was a decision supported by the Party of Regions. So your speech is either false or you have forgotten something. I would like to ask you, What is missing from your conscience or mind? Give me an answer. Thank you.
ParlaMint-UA_2013-10-09-m0.u236	One minute to reply. Paul Rosenko. And we move on to the vote because we have a meeting to conclude in accordance with the Rules. Please.
ParlaMint-UA_2013-10-09-m0.u237	I mean, not by name, one little truth. When the government I worked in had the honour of working, twice passed a law on the limitation of pensions, the Party of Regions did not vote in favour of the bill in 2008 or 2009. The other one. When the government ruled in principle on these pensions, the people's deputies of the "Regions" faction turned to the Constitutional Court -- and the Constitutional Court lifted that restriction. So let's not lie. We did everything, and in a difficult economic situation, we paid all our pensions, and we didn't raise our retirement age. And you came to power and the first thing you did, and you didn't retire -- you increased your retirement age. So let's not get emotional right now, let's all calm down and support the strike party's initiative to apply the only principles of retirement.
ParlaMint-UA_2013-10-09-m0.u238	Let's move on to making a decision. I would like to vote on the draft Act (registration 1236): amending certain laws of Ukraine regarding the observance of the principle of social justice in pension insurance, for adoption as a basis. People's deputies of Ukraine are requested to vote. [[14:15:35]] For-198 The decision is not taken. The factions. Region Party 3, Fatherland, 77, Vitalia Klicka, 35, Freedom, 34, Ukraine's 31, non-fractional, 18. The morning session of the Supreme Council of Ukraine is closed. Tomorrow we'll continue our work at 10 a.m.
