ParlaMint-UA_2013-11-19-m1.u1	Invite MPs, make announcements. People's deputies, please prepare for registration. Turn on the "Race" system. [[16:01:48]] There were 371 national deputies registered in the hall. I declare the evening session of the Supreme Council of Ukraine open. We continue to consider the issues of the day’s order. A draft Law (No. 2855) on amending article 240 of the Criminal Code of Ukraine on increasing responsibility for illegal mining is under consideration. How will we view it? Well, I'd like you to vote for the national MPs who support the reduced procedure. [[16:02:44]] For-94 Against 46, held – 5, not voted – 227. The decision is not taken. I invite you to report to the Deputy Minister of Ecology and Natural Resources, Alexander Vasilovich Susko. Please. [[B in m in s a l in]] What's "impossible"? Please raise your hand to whom it is impossible to work, I give my word. [[B in m in s a l in]] Please, Mikhail Ivanovich Mironenko. Please turn on the microphone.
ParlaMint-UA_2013-11-19-m1.u2	Dear Vladimir Vasilovich! Well, the national MPs are outraged that something is constantly flying from the top, some heavy object has just fallen. I'm asking you to take measures of some kind. And the people's deputies are very concerned about these facts all -- some cards, some items are heavy. We can deliver this item to you now.
ParlaMint-UA_2013-11-19-m1.u3	I think I'm going to put the journalists on this side. [[B in m in s a l in]] Yes, on this side, now the Chaplin, please. Are you going to ask me to transplant here? Please, just a minute, Caplin.
ParlaMint-UA_2013-11-19-m1.u4	Thank you, Vladimir Vasilovich. I would now like to address the high-ranking voters and, above all, the people who voted wrongly in favour of the Party of Regions in the previous elections. Look what's happening, the Party of Regions wants to hide from you, they hide from you in their major districts, their deputies don't work. You can't see the faction manager or the intercessors, never at all. Now they want to hide from journalists so you can't see how they don't work, how they don't vote, how they vote for each other and all that. I would like to advise the distinguished Party of the Regions and next to the sitting Communists, who have also begun to vote for each other, to take matters into your own hands and work. People spend billions on you to roll up your sleeves and, in the end, start making, not fooling around here!
ParlaMint-UA_2013-11-19-m1.u5	What did you put on the rostrum? What's fallen? I'll be with you in a minute. Stoyan.
ParlaMint-UA_2013-11-19-m1.u6	Dear colleagues! Dear Vladimir Vasilovich! A month ago, I suggested that you make it possible for the MPs to work properly when my colleague, Evening, fell into a funnel. They're going to cry today. I'm not talking about flying with Julia Timoshenko's face. And the deputies were forced to walk in the face of an important opposition, for they were under their feet. Something's flown again. Now, as to whether we want to hide. Look, colleagues, that's where you'll see the Party of Regions, and from here you'll see only Freedom. So we say, put the journalists there so they can see us in a transparent, dignified way. So they don't hang on top of us with bottles of liquor. So I'm asking you to either put up a fence. In the end, you're going to have to get the MPs to work properly. We're just asking you, Vladimir Vasilovich.
ParlaMint-UA_2013-11-19-m1.u7	I am. Dear National Deputies! The one who threw something up there today will no longer throw it, because I gave the team -- they won't let it here again in the Supreme Council. He won't throw any more here, he'll throw another place. We've got it. Come on, it's been standing there a long time. You can talk everything out! But we asked 130 questions. Please report, Alexander Vasilovich. I'll give the command, we'll close the glass so we don't throw. [[B in m in s a l in]] That's it. I'll give that command. Please.
ParlaMint-UA_2013-11-19-m1.u8	Dear Vladimir Vasilovich! Dear National Deputies! You have before you the draft Ukrainian Law amending article 240 of the Ukrainian Criminal Code to increase responsibility for illegal mining, designed to increase criminal liability for infringement of the rules of protection, to carry out the mandate of the President of Ukraine and the government. It should be noted that in 2012 the State’s territorial inspections. Checks have been carried out on 1,203 drug users' activities to enable them to implement the special conditions of 1,546 special permits for the use of nadrama. A total of 2,000,906 violations of the rules and regulations governing the use of nadrama have been established during inspections of mining plants. The National Geological Control Commission has given 1,000,568 prescriptions for the elimination of detected violations and the establishment of a deadline for their execution. During the reporting period, 21 cases of unsanctioned mining were identified. In the course of the tests, 568 violations of the norms and rules of use were established for geological study purposes. The most important and common are these. The geological study program is not done in terms of time and volume. Absence from the user of the work plans, of the DDP projects, of the necessary documentation. For 2012. Dergeonandra's task force has decided to cancel 259 special permits for the use of the nadrama. The 253 permissions have been suspended. But 135 permits have been renewed. Statistics in the ninth month of 2013 are disappointing. Yes, the State Geological Control of the Dergeonad Ukraine carried out 1,000, 142 checks on the activities of 844 drug users. special conditions, 1 thousand 585 permits. In particular, 872 breeding permits, 209 geological studies, and 4 permits for the construction and operation of underground buildings. During the tests of drug users, 3,000, 171 violations of the rules and regulations governing the use of nadrama have been detected. According to the results of the tests, 682 prescriptions have been issued to drug users who are developing stocks of beneficial fossils that are in violation of existing legislation for the removal of detected violations and the deadline has been set. In the course of the tests, 552 violations of the rules and regulations for the use of nadrama for the purpose of geological study have been detected and 175 prescriptions have been made for their removal. In 2013 130 permits were revoked by the State Geological Control in connection with the violation of Nadra legislation, 196 permits were suspended, and 62 permits were renewed. In view of the above, the bill provides for the establishment of a socially dangerous action not only in the form of a violation of the rules of protection but also in the form of a violation of the rules of use. Yes, the project is intended to introduce criminal responsibility for illegal mining not only of public value but also of local significance by excluding a reference to beneficial mines of public value. Illegal mining of useful fossils is one of the most socially dangerous activities proposed to be foreseen in a skilled crime scene. This should take into account the extent of illegal mining of useful fossils of local value. That is, if the value of illegally mined fossils of local value is 57,000, 350 dollars. The project also proposes to strengthen criminal responsibility, namely: for violating the rules of protection, if it has created a threat to life, human health or the environment, it will be punishable by a fine of between 500 and 800 untaxed minimum citizens' incomes or a restriction of the will for up to 3 years, or the deprivation of liberty for the same period; for violations of established rules of use of the nadrama, if it creates a danger to life, human health or the environment, as well as the illegal extraction of useful fossils of local value at a large scale or useful fossils of public value, it will be fined from 1,500 to 2,000 untaxed minimum incomes of citizens or the restriction of the will for a term of up to 5 years, or for the removal of the will for the same period; if the actions envisaged by parts of the first or second article, which have been carried out on the basis of the illegal state of the sentence, or the third sentence of the sentence. In general, Ukraine's draft law aims at improving criminal law rules on liability for infringements of Nadra legislation. The adoption of the bill will promote the rule of law in the field of the use and protection of mineral resources, as well as the general preventive and special warning effect on persons who, by their kind of professional activities, are both related and unrelated to the exploitation of fossil resources. In view of the above, please support this bill. Thank you for your attention.
ParlaMint-UA_2013-11-19-m1.u9	Thank you. Is there a question in the National Deputies? Is it? Please sign up. We have three minutes to ask. Please, Freedom Union, National Deputy of Switzerland.
ParlaMint-UA_2013-11-19-m1.u10	May I give the floor to the People's Deputy Alexander the Peace.
ParlaMint-UA_2013-11-19-m1.u11	Alexander Mirny, please.
ParlaMint-UA_2013-11-19-m1.u12	Dear reporter, I would very much like to hear your point of view with regard to specific improvements, sorry for that swear word, because it's already lame, which will bring this bill with it. Because it's not about anything at all. But I would like to understand clearly, in order for us to make a decision, the right decision, if you please, at least two nodes, which are important, from your point of view. Thank you.
ParlaMint-UA_2013-11-19-m1.u13	Thank you. Today, for useful fossils, the local meaning of no responsibility at all. It's not happening. And by introducing these rules into the law, criminal responsibility will be introduced.
ParlaMint-UA_2013-11-19-m1.u14	Please, the Vitalia Klitschka faction, National Deputy Palamarczuk, Rosenko gives that word. Rosetta, please.
ParlaMint-UA_2013-11-19-m1.u15	Paul Rosenco, Vitaly Caller's Faction. Well, I can't quite agree with you that for the use of natural resources, the illegal use of local meaning, we have no responsibility. In principle, you define certain norms and that's a plus for the bill. But one thing to admit is that the responsibility for illegal mining is now established. And raising fines is certainly a possible step. But in our view, you can't talk about the effectiveness of your activity today and the activities of your inspection. Because there are fines, but still illegal mining is happening in Ukraine. So say, literally, two of these, how do we improve the effectiveness of inspection activities in this direction?
ParlaMint-UA_2013-11-19-m1.u16	Well, for the time being, I think. If a statistic is taken from 2009 to 2013, the number of offences in the field is only increasing each year. And in view of the mild penalties in our legislation, they will continue to grow. If we adopt standards that are more careful to impose penalties for punishment. Offences, then, I think, will still be settled. And the inspection works normally, and every year it checks out more and more special permits.
ParlaMint-UA_2013-11-19-m1.u17	The Vitalia Klitschka faction, the People's Deputy of Kuren.
ParlaMint-UA_2013-11-19-m1.u18	People's deputy to Kurenye, Faction Impact. Please give the floor to the National MP, Mikola Tomenko.
ParlaMint-UA_2013-11-19-m1.u19	Mikola Tomenko, please.
ParlaMint-UA_2013-11-19-m1.u20	Dear colleagues, I think the idea of the bill is correct, but not only should we think about fines, but we should think about how to ensure that people work, especially in the East and in Donetsk, so that they don't engage illegally in copany mining coal to survive. But I'm talking about something else. Vladimir Vasilovich, I ask you to entrust me as head of the committee, I will gather parliamentary journalists and we will deal with today's situation here in bed. First thing in the morning, one of the challengers who made his way to the Supreme Council dropped the cards. Then, according to our information, other provokers came here to protect buttoned-up MPs. We're going to figure out what happened in the parliamentary bed there, and I'm absolutely convinced that civilized normal journalists work properly and don't interfere with MPs there. And there's nothing on the wall.
ParlaMint-UA_2013-11-19-m1.u21	I'm not intruding. You, as chairman of the committee, can consider this question. Sit down, thank you. Sit down. Please, the report is Vitaly Stanislavovich Žuravski, Secretary of the Committee on Legislative Security. Please.
ParlaMint-UA_2013-11-19-m1.u22	Dear Vladimir Vasilovich, distinguished colleagues! Our committee, the Committee on Law Enforcement Law Enforcement, discussed at its meeting the draft Ukrainian Law on Amendments to Article 240 of the Criminal Code on Strengthening Responsibility for the Illegal Extraction of Useful Mines, submitted by the Cabinet of Ministers. The bill proposes to amend article 240 of the Criminal Code. The goal is to increase criminal responsibility for violating established rules of protection if this creates a danger to life, human health, and the environment by imposing penalties in the form of fines or restrictions on freedom for a term of up to 3 years, or by depriving them of the same term. The amendment to article 240 of the Ukrainian Criminal Code also proposes to criminalize acts related to the illegal mining of useful fossils of local importance in a large way, reiterating the same penalty as a fine or a restriction of the will to a term of up to 5 years or the deprivation of liberty for the same term. The actions provided for in the first or second parts of this article, either in the territories or objects of the natural-indictment fund, or repeated, are punishable by a 3 to 5-year limitation of will, or by the deprivation of liberty for the same period of time with the confiscation of the illegally acquired and the instrument of extraction. The main task of the bill is to improve criminal law rules on liability for infringements of the rules of protection, clarifying the signs of the composition of crime, species and the extent of punishment to increase criminal responsibility for illegal mining. According to our committee's statements, and he's a profiler, the Ministry of Interior and the Ministry of Justice of Ukraine have drawn conclusions. They support this bill without notice. A committee on environmental policy, environmental management and the elimination of the consequences of the Chernobyl disaster believes that the bill can be adopted as a basis. Having examined the provisions of the bill, the Committee on Legislative Security adopted a decision at its meeting: recommending to the Supreme Council of Ukraine the adoption of Bill 2855 on the basis of the Cabinet of Ministers. Some shortcomings of the project, both by national deputies and experts, may be removed by the committee in preparation for the second reading. Please be supportive.
ParlaMint-UA_2013-11-19-m1.u23	Thank you. Any questions? Sign up. Sand, Party of Regions. Please.
ParlaMint-UA_2013-11-19-m1.u24	Thank you. Sand, faction of the Party of the Regions. Dear Mr. Vitalia, doesn't it seem to you that the gap in punishment for the illegal extraction of useful fossils of local importance on a large scale, i.e. something that is already criminally punished, is significantly different from small-scale operations, even if this size is different from one minimum non-taxable minimum of citizens' income? I'm bringing in specific numbers. Let's say in the first penalty case, it's going to be between 25,000 and 34,000 dollars a fine. And if it's small, but it's only one non-taxed minimum, the fine is going to be between $170 and $510. A very large gap between 510 bracelets and 25,000 bracelets. I mean, do you understand what this is about? Is it possible to remove this moment during the second reading? Thank you.
ParlaMint-UA_2013-11-19-m1.u25	You may suggest that you correct your amendment to the second reading, but what you are talking about is quite right. But I'd like to read a footnote that's in the table that's given to you. Illegal mining of useful fossils of local value is considered to be large if the value of illegally mined fossils of local value is a hundred times higher than that of a minimum of citizens.
ParlaMint-UA_2013-11-19-m1.u26	Thank you. The Fatherland faction, National Deputy Yuri Odarchenko. Please.
ParlaMint-UA_2013-11-19-m1.u27	Please pass the word to Vladimir Yavorowski.
ParlaMint-UA_2013-11-19-m1.u28	Please tell Mr. Yavorowski.
ParlaMint-UA_2013-11-19-m1.u29	I have this question for you and for you, Vladimir Vasilovich. In order to resolve the conflict that is now involved in the fall of heavy, stupid objects on the heads of the national deputies, you already know how it ended for one person, hand out their mining helmets and everything, and then it will be beautiful, and they will look and everything will be fine. Second thing I want to say. Today, we have as many drafts as we do. literally months of determination, anniversary dates, we won't get to them again. Because of the question that we were able to pass through in transit, we are going to kill now virtually an hour. And my question is this. Please tell me this bill will be voted for, "The Fatherland," but with disgust. Why? Because the envelope is right, the idea is right, so much from the Ukrainian land. So tell me, that sand that's coming out today.
ParlaMint-UA_2013-11-19-m1.u30	I can't hear you.
ParlaMint-UA_2013-11-19-m1.u31	It was a performance, so small. Another party of regions, national deputy Blagodir. It was a performance. Please, Blagodar.
ParlaMint-UA_2013-11-19-m1.u32	Dear Vladimir Vasilovich! Dear colleagues! Of course, this bill will be supported and voted on as a basis, but I want to demonstrate how they fight illegal mining in Zitomirsk, by the way, in our area where we share districts. There is an enterprise with Poland's largest investment in Ukraine: Cersanit Invest. He that is walking by means of a foreigner, in the land of the world, sees him. In 2010, 120 million euros were invested in the development of this company, and in 2009 a special permit was granted for the production of technical water, but the Cabinet of Ministers decides on new licensing rules. 27 permits are being obtained by an enterprise to obtain a new license for the production of technical water. Our environmental inspection comes along with the D.A.'s office, with the police, they choose this period, they say it's state-stolen technical water, 30 million sanctions, and the threat of a cease-fire. So for the second reading, we need to work out this bill in a way that makes it clear.
ParlaMint-UA_2013-11-19-m1.u33	Have a seat. This is where the people's MP made his proposals. Turn on the microphone on the stand.
ParlaMint-UA_2013-11-19-m1.u34	My countryman made an interesting offer. In my district there's a beautiful Irshan mining-rich combination, where people on average get 7-8 thousand dollars, and there's a turn to settle in, there's nothing wrong. But not only in our area, but areas and other areas have big problems. I propose to make a change to the second reading, and we'll look at it on our committee. Thank you.
ParlaMint-UA_2013-11-19-m1.u35	Thank you. Please sign up for the factions. Please, the Fatherland faction. Please, the faction of the Party of the Regions. Who will act? Identify yourself, until the "Fatherland" faction, Ariev, and be determined. I'll give you my word. Ariev, the "Fatherland" faction. Please.
ParlaMint-UA_2013-11-19-m1.u36	Dear colleagues! The question that we are considering today is not just mature, but mature, and for many years we have witnessed the illegal use of Ukrainian fossils. In particular, the biggest and most difficult situation in Donbas today. Because it's there. Donbas is now the champion of illegal coal mines. These were formerly abandoned mines that had been developed, begun to develop in the days of Uzzah, and today they are life - threatening. The law is supposed to be right, but there is one thing, as always. Tell me, please, whether or not this legislation provides for the responsibility of those who organize and "crush" these diggers. Because the result of this law is that the showcases of today's law enforcement agencies are going to be on their feet, and as a result, they're going to arrest the impoverished slaves who are being chased into these trenches. And these dignitaries are being roofed by prosecutors of Donetské, Lugansk district, the Donetské and Lugansk district police, and these are the ones who will be responsible. Where will the organizers be? And the organizers will find themselves, as always, behind the braces. So let us perhaps anticipate the responsibility and responsibility of the organizers of those diggers of the illegal mining operation. This is also true of the Plains and Zitomir regions where Ukrainian amber is being mined massively today without any control. The authorities, I understand, are very eager today to show that she's struggling with her feet. And by the way, dignitaries are a direct seismological danger for the Donetsk and Lugansk region, as experts have repeatedly said, because the land in Donetskin is beginning to collapse. And I saw it in 2004 in the cities of Torres, in the cities of Snow and other cities where such phenomena occur. But most important, we must do so today so that the common people who are forced to do so do not suffer. and the miserable existence brought to them by the present - day authorities of Yanukovich, they will be forced to go there, and now they will have to be held accountable for their slave owners. I believe that this is the most important issue, and the "Paternity" faction will vote in favour of this bill only if the responsibility of the organizers of these mines and the illegal coal production in other areas is foreseen. Thank you.
ParlaMint-UA_2013-11-19-m1.u37	The faction of the Party of the Regions, Hanna Herman, please.
ParlaMint-UA_2013-11-19-m1.u38	Dear friends! Digging hasn't existed in three years, and a member of the Fatherland Party knows that dignitaries have existed since they existed. All 20 years of independence of Ukraine existed, and only the government of Yanukovich, our government, decided to make order here, decided legislatively to assume responsibility for the illegal extraction of natural resources. At the same time, we should all remember that the main thing in this matter is to protect the people who go to those trenches from a good life. We have to do everything we can to give an alternative to those people who, at times, extract coal in copanas, are the only sources of existence. This is indeed a problem and we must, in making and preparing and adopting legislation that punishes for similar actions, give people an alternative to living, make their lives so that they can live a legitimate way. Without that, this law, first of all, will not work, second of all, it will only be repressive, not auxiliary. So I propose, by voting in favour of this law, that we develop a program to protect those who are forced to survive and earn for themselves and for their families in the same way. Thank you for your attention.
ParlaMint-UA_2013-11-19-m1.u39	Freedom Union, national deputy of Schweik. Please.
ParlaMint-UA_2013-11-19-m1.u40	The deputy faction of the All-Ukrainian Freedom Union, Igor Schwaika. The Society, on this bill (2855), the faction of the All-Ukrainian Union "Freedom" will support it in the first reading. But I would like to point out a few points that need attention both to Parliament as a whole and to every national MP, whether he is a majority or a censuser. First. We've been told by the deputy minister rather inadvertently about the increase in figures, essentially the level of fines that would be imposed on illegal mining. That's theoretically correct. Although, frankly, it was very hard to hear what the deputy minister said and understand that. But please tell me whether the increase in fines in itself regulates the issue of mine extraction, including local value. Is it in itself an increase in fines and a criminal responsibility for the production of three sand machines that the average rural head takes in a career in the village council to cover the road near the cemetery in the spring that he automatically becomes a criminal? And this "automatic" today is leading to an increase in corruption in this area. I would very much like the deputy minister to listen at times when his project is being reviewed, not to speak on the phone. Thank you. Because I couldn't hear you. Next. On the first reading, we'll support that. But when you've gone through Ukraine, you've already talked about Žitomirščina, and I'll tell you about Kharkivščina, and about Donbas, a number of diggers -- this is coal mining, mining in Lugansk's home district. People come and complain that the Ministry of Ecology is looking at documents for 15, 24 months, and entrepreneurs cannot get permission. Today, the Ministry of Ecology offers to fine them. Including perhaps not just a fine, but today it will establish a material responsibility, for they will calculate how much damage has been done to a budget. Right? And for the rest. Today's question is ours. For our first reading today, we are giving out our voices, but for our second reading, we need to set up a normal permit system in the Lugansk, Žitomirsk district not for 18 months. As for the desire of individuals here to play our spheres and make glass or to play, I would like to remind you that the building of the Supreme Council is a monument to architecture. Volodymyr Vasilovich! If you give orders in this regard, do not forget to make changes to the security agreement. Because even painting walls in this building, which is a building — a monument to architecture — requires an appropriate one.
ParlaMint-UA_2013-11-19-m1.u41	Finish up.
ParlaMint-UA_2013-11-19-m1.u42	In order for us to work properly, you need to take responsibility for a violation of a personal vote that has been so successful for the members of the Party of Regions that they failed at the meeting of the PIC. For them to work properly, it is necessary to treat journalists with kindness. And in the form of journalists, they don't send provocateurs out there to throw cards. Today we stand before the new era of the Ukrainian Parliament. And reprisals are primarily for today's.
ParlaMint-UA_2013-11-19-m1.u43	Thank you, thank you. Hit by Vitalia Calla, National MP to the Kurennay.
ParlaMint-UA_2013-11-19-m1.u44	Please pass the word to Oksani Prodan.
ParlaMint-UA_2013-11-19-m1.u45	Please, Oksana Sold.
ParlaMint-UA_2013-11-19-m1.u46	Dear Vladimir Vasilovich! Dear colleagues! I would like to draw your attention to the fact that this bill introduces responsibility not only for coal mining but also for the production of all other useful fossils. And that sand, and that grasshopper that is now being mined completely in different fields and in different regions of Ukraine. And I would like to draw your attention to the fact that this bill provides for the introduction of responsibility. Not a new responsibility, but an increase, a significant increase in responsibility for all persons. The bill offers criminal responsibility to attract both officials and individuals who are physically forced to work today, including on kicks. In order to address this issue, it is necessary not to impose additional sanctions and to increase accountability in order to protect people who are working illegally today and to protect our nature. We need to legalize a business that is actually artificially illegal today. It is necessary to allow those owners of businesses, legal, illegal owners, who are working primarily in eastern Ukraine today, to legalize and make them legalize their work. Yes, it's inconvenient for owners, who today, for example, drive coal around the town of Shahtarsk in the Donetsk region in a massive way, despite the official mine, which is now preserved and planned to be watered, drive a clean new asphalt road from the trenches to the consumer on the side of Donetsk. So they don't want to legalize their business, because then they're going to have to pay taxes, pay people's social insurance. And that's why it's kind of an easy way out. This is the introduction of an additional increase in fines and criminal liability. So this exit is another risk of corruption -- it's an additional one, and it's a very big one. Because, as has always been, the Cabinet of Ministers in this bill proposes to introduce a huge bill of fines, from small to very large. Who will make the decision? Why would one person be fined a minimum and another person be deprived of his will? Why do we give such an opportunity? We believe that today, indeed, the protection of people who are forced to work illegally must be provided by the State. But first of all, it has to be the legalization of business and the elimination of corruption. Thank you.
ParlaMint-UA_2013-11-19-m1.u47	Thank you. The faction of the Ukrainian Company, the national deputy of Kilinkarov.
ParlaMint-UA_2013-11-19-m1.u48	Ladies and gentlemen of the people! [[B in m in s a l in]] First of all, I would like to say that this kind of legislation can fight this shadow business, but it cannot be overcome. Because, in fact, who doesn't know what the dig is now on Donbass, it's thousands of acres of land that have been raided by excavators, and it's thousands of cars that walk around our villages that destroy our homes. It's dust that our citizens breathe and it's shadowy money, which includes particles at the regional and central levels. Everyone in this business is involved. Local governments are involved in this business. The business involves law enforcement agencies, police, prosecutors, governors and others. It's a billion-dollar fund-raiser. Parents here spoke for jobs about the fact that they were not on Donbass. Where will they come from? If the coals are mined today and are now in state programmes, including through legalization. You're gonna ask our people where they're getting their concessional coal? Is that the coal from the legal mines? Nope. That's what they talked about here today. Qualitative coals do not provide them; they are supplied with coal that is extracted from the earth. These are the enrichment plants that know where these coals come from. Here are the billions of resources used today in a shadowy way in our country. With regard to this bill, we are prepared to support it in our first reading, but we, for our part, demand that all rules relating to fines be removed from this bill. Don't mix me with fines of 30 to 35,000 for people with millions and billions of dollars. Therefore, it must be a criminal responsibility to confiscate not only the property that is being mined, but also the illegal extraction of those fossils. But also confiscation of property that belongs to those involved in mining. By no other means will we be able to overcome this problem. It is a real problem, it is the cry of the souls of the people who live in these territories and face it every day. People are moving home today because these trenches are suitable for their household. And no one wants to be responsible for that. Therefore, a tougher approach and a more serious criminal responsibility can have a real impact. Plus, law enforcement and action are agreed upon by prosecutors, militias and local governments. Thank you.
ParlaMint-UA_2013-11-19-m1.u49	Please sign up for the performances by the National Deputies. A faction of the Ukrainian Company, a national MP. What's your last name? People's MP Biyyovka.
ParlaMint-UA_2013-11-19-m1.u50	Deputies! [[B in m in s a l in]] I'm actually talking to you from Donbass' voter scream. The Communist faction will necessarily support this bill. Because especially for East, Donetsk, Lugansk and Donbass in general, this is a real scourge and tragedy. Digging today or, as we call them in the people, holes are a real bloody business. Hundreds of digs or holes, as they are called in the people, are no longer just a social or environmental problem, it is a direct threat to thousands of people, it is a direct damage not only to the economy and industrial settlements but also to the entire agricultural land. [[B in m in s a l in]] And whole agricultural land, where, instead of planting bread, grain, digs are now criminally dug and destroyed by black people. This is also a direct threat to all residents of the area. Think about it. In Donetsk region, the death toll has doubled in the last year alone. Often, when the elections were held in the Snowy, Torres, Shacher, and people complained that they had gone to work in the trenches, that they had not returned in a few days and no one could find him. Turning to the law enforcement or prosecutor's office is useless because the dignitaries are absorbing not only the country's finances but also the people's. This is not the only aspect of the problem. Think about it, because they often develop so-called whole layer. These are the layers that lie not far from the surface, 1.5-2 meters and in Soviet times these fees could not be developed because, first, it was a strategic reserve of the State. And the second part of this was the environmental aspect. Because when you touch these goals, you start to shift the soil. And what happens in the end? As a result, as Spiridon Kilinkarov said before me, houses are moving around, entire settlements are moving around, and sometimes because of the trenches, as was five years ago, the town of Snowy, the village of North America wanted to shut down the school. Because they started digging, and this school started cracking and precipitation, but no one said why it was actually happening. Look, it's happened that these trenches are destroying the infrastructure as a whole. Often, these self-abuses, which carry dozens of tons of coal, are illegal coal, and that is in fact illegal money released in the country. The economy, they hide, they drive on rural and rural roads, thereby causing uneducated*** damage to the community and the local population by breaking up. These roads are dead. Even according to official information, the district procurator's office in Donetsk is currently operating 156 kopecks, with a minimum of 250-300. It's certainly a good thing that the D.A. has finally brought the problem of digging to its attention. What, though, goes on with the words?
ParlaMint-UA_2013-11-19-m1.u51	Please, you have three minutes. Please.
ParlaMint-UA_2013-11-19-m1.u52	In his interview, the district prosecutor criticized the local authorities so well that they did not take any measures to control the public divides that they did not have a coal enterprise development programme and so on. But I would also like to criticize the prosecutor here. And ask him: and where are criminal cases against leaders, officials who do not exercise this control and do not take any measures to control this criminal activity. Where are the criminal cases of the Public Prosecutor's Office and the members of the Ministry of Internal Affairs covering these dignitaries? More than once, even in the media, there have been photographs of illegal coal mining. And they were found nearby: both MVD vehicles and prosecutors. It must also be said that trenches are also a direct threat to the public budget and local budgets. Because today, as the previous speaker said, our concessions are often driven, not by normal coal lawfully obtained on government mines, or other forms of property, but by slag from mines. At the same time, according to some information, 900,000 tons of coal was exported from mines abroad last year. This is a direct damage to the State at a time when millions of tons of coal burn in coal mines and heat plants. I would like to point out next time, yes, I agree that we have trenches working for all 20 years of Ukrainian independence, but we have to tell the truth to the end. Digging is the result of the crimes of all bourgeois Governments, without exception. Because the coal industry was looted and looted, dozens of promising mines were shut down, hundreds of thousands of miners were dumped on the streets and on the same trenches. You want to fight dignitaries, you don't have to do D.A. and the D.I.A. do chat and piazzar, they have to do the duty honestly, not the look. The Government must develop the coal industry, the production in depressive cities and the social sphere. It's the only way in the compound that this evil can be overcome. Thank you for your attention.
ParlaMint-UA_2013-11-19-m1.u53	The Fatherland faction, National Deputy Petrenko. Please.
ParlaMint-UA_2013-11-19-m1.u54	Paul Petrenko, "Fatherland" faction. Dear Ukrainian citizens, dear colleagues, I always have a question when we adopt laws that reinforce the responsibility of our citizens. Who will shoulder this responsibility, rich or poor? The answer is very simple, of course, to criminal responsibility will always attract poor citizens, these are our ordinary citizens. Will the owners, including the criminal, of large careers, of large businesses that pollute the environment, our oligarchs, our entrepreneurs, be responsible? No, it's not. Of course not. According to this law, in this text proposed, criminals will in fact make ordinary citizens, simple pensioners in villages who have dug a well and not paid bribes to obtain permits for the use of nadrama, simple Ukrainian families who have taken two wheelbarrows from a lake or a river. And in fact, all of our citizens can turn local law enforcement into banal criminals. Why? To get the bribes right and relieve them of their responsibilities. So these laws, you know, that have a kind of good purpose, that protects the natural environment, and in fact they're called banal corruption in places of law enforcement, they're unacceptable. We will support it only in the first reading if significant changes are made to the second reading. The main change is the increase in the damage plank. Think about it, now it's supposed that if 1,700 dollars are caused by a citizen's loss, he might be held criminally liable until he's deprived of his will. This is, in fact, if Grandma hatched a well, an inspection came to her that the loss of 1,775 dollars, for example, was violated by a criminal case, and this grandmother would be convicted. Do you understand? So the question is very simple, this bill, of course, is needed in the context of large businesses that really pollute the environment, which ignore the law, which extract the same beneficial mines that break the law, are responsible. But this law can't be a tool for our law-keepers to engage in raids against ordinary citizens, especially in villages, to those citizens who are actually at the expense of some of these natural fossils, who can make at least a penny at the expense of these beneficial fossils. So the "Fatherland" faction supports this bill only if it is seriously developed into the second reading. Our requirement is that this bill should not be distributed to citizens who are not subject to entrepreneurial activity. It should be distributed exclusively to entrepreneurs, big business, to entrepreneurs who really cause serious damage and damage to the environment. And then serious sanctions can be applied to them, including criminal liability in the form of willlessness. This law should be national, not antinational, only then will we vote for it as a whole. Thank you.
ParlaMint-UA_2013-11-19-m1.u55	The Vitalia Clicak faction is speaking, Kaplin, please.
ParlaMint-UA_2013-11-19-m1.u56	Vitalia Klitschka faction, Sergey Kaplin, Poltawa, 144 constituency. To our deep conviction, this bill is nothing like an attempt to centralize corruption on Donbas. Donbas has chosen a party of regions here to keep you in the country and on Donbas in order to take care of a simple miner, the rural inhabitants who live there, the workers, the peasants. What are you bringing here? What kind of bills do you make? Doesn't the head of the faction of the Party of Regions know what needs to be done in order for there to be no diggers, no corruption to kill people in those pits? You need to get your Ministry of Internal Affairs to work, you need to get your attorney's office, your heads of district administrations and district council deputies who don't work, who cover the businesses that millions of people make on the humps of Donba's employees. They chose you to write laws that would improve their lives. They hoped that there would be some improvement. Instead, you're introducing laws that kill Donbas, who kill teenage workers, workers, and peasants. I want to tell you and remind you of article 13 of the Ukrainian Constitution, "Nadra belongs to the people of Ukraine", the people of Ukraine in the East, the people of Ukraine in the West. And all of you, not just those who work in those trenches, have to answer to Ukraine, to her people, to the minister of the interior, especially when he and Boyke come there or come to Azarov, you camouflage these diggers and say there's no problem. As soon as they're leaving Donbas, it's all open and it's all working again. And look at the statistics. In 2013, 200 cases were opened, and 80 exvatuators were removed, and about 100 trucks were removed. It's closed, everyone's back. You don't want to decide, you want to control this shadow market even more because you need money for the President's election because you want to control the entire Ukrainian people, all the shadowy, shadowy circulation of money. Sailors in their slang call their diggers "norms." So I want to tell you, in 2015, a new President and opposition will come to power, and we will drive you into those burrows and you will hide there from the Ukrainian people, you will cry and ask forgiveness of the Ukrainian people. Glory to Ukraine!
ParlaMint-UA_2013-11-19-m1.u57	The "Fatherland" faction, National Deputy Viacheslav Kirilenko. Please. Viacheslav Kirilenko, please.
ParlaMint-UA_2013-11-19-m1.u58	Viacheslav Kirilenko, Fatherland faction, Party "For Ukraine!" Dear colleagues and, above all, distinguished voters! This is a question that we are considering and that relates to beneficial fossils, which applies to practically the whole country. And we're looking at it here because it's been going on for years and because the poor people are almost always poor. Motivation of a person who, either in a business or alone or totally illegally with a group of people, takes sand somewhere in Hersonian, or works in a dig in Donbas, or digs up that amber on the Plainland, or even there, in Western Ukraine, collects those stones on the banks of the rivers, the same is the motivation for poverty and poverty, that's the same motivation when people drive waste, dump it in a forest, pollute the country, because they don't pay for waste disposal because they don't have that extra money. That's the same motivation. So that's the law right there. You know, I think that's what we want to do to scare the food guy, you know, somewhere. Because all those who engage in organized crime business in illegal mining, especially mining, have long learned to bypass all obstacles. Look, at the beginning of the two thousand years, there was a mission of the International Labour Organization, which dealt with the subject of child labor. And by the way, that's the kind of fact that's been happening on these kicks. And tell me, has much changed? This mafia system, the mafia economy system, it's self-reacting under any authority. And it's not true that it was only during Ukraine's new independence. This mafia economy, it started back in the '80s, and it's been self-reproducing ever since. So, of course, by a fine of 800 dollars, we're going to scare who? Some kind of person who's gonna be the shooter. And whoever distributes billions of streams from these digs, they're not going to lose anything. It said here that let's create legal jobs. Come on! In fact, there was a program of grants from the employment fund to create jobs in the coal sector. Tell me, where is the program? But she was ripped off by that program. Because the money went to create new jobs on legal mines, and the miners to create a job for him, they didn't come. So you have to change the productive force and take seriously the retraining of the labour force in the country, which is an uncomfortable issue for any authority. First reading.
ParlaMint-UA_2013-11-19-m1.u59	The discussion is over. Is there a closing word for the reporter? I won't. Coroner? Turn on the Żurawski microphone.
ParlaMint-UA_2013-11-19-m1.u60	Ladies and gentlemen, let's go to the vote, because there are a lot of important bills that need to be adopted today. I urge the House to vote in favour of this bill in the first reading. Thank you.
ParlaMint-UA_2013-11-19-m1.u61	Thank you. Ladies and gentlemen, please prepare for the vote. Please be prepared. Prepared? I am voting on the draft Act (No. 2855) amending article 240 of the Criminal Code of Ukraine to increase the responsibility for the illicit production of useful fossils for adoption as a basis. People's deputies, please vote. [[16:59:53]] For 284 Against - 5, held - 29, not voted - 79. Decision taken. The factions. Region Party - 158, Fatherland - 41, Vitalia Klicka - 4, Freedom - 32, Company - 27, non-fractional - 22. A draft Act (No2484) is under consideration to amend certain laws of Ukraine concerning the inclusion of information on active legal persons and natural persons entrepreneurs in the Single State Register. How do we consider the question? Please. Anyone who supports a reduced procedure, please vote. [[17:00:57]] For 158. Against 76, held – 11, not voted – 152. Decision taken. The factions. I invite you to report to the head of the State Registration Service, Dmitry Mikolaiovich Crowd. And then Alexander Kugel.
ParlaMint-UA_2013-11-19-m1.u62	Thank you. Dear Vladimir Vasilovich! Dear National Deputies! The draft law proposes to amend the Final Provisions of section II of the 8th Final Position of the Law of Ukraine on the State Registration of Legal Persons and Natural Persons of Entrepreneurs, which provides for the obligation of legal persons and natural persons of entrepreneurs registered before 1 July 2004, to submit to the State Register a registration card to include information on them in the Single State Register. At the same time, the State registry is obliged to include information and a statement from the Single State Register after receiving the registration card. The draft law also proposes to exclude the provisions of the Ukrainian Law on the Simplification of the Mechanism for State Registering of Controlling Subjects, which provides for the completion of the process of including in the Single State Register of Information on Legal Persons and Personal Entrepreneurs registered before 1 July 2004; the procedure for the transmission of information on legal persons and natural persons who are entrepreneurs registered before 1 July 2004; the conduct of certified records carried out by authorized authorities with the data of the Single State Register and the operation of temporary interim inter-ministerial special commissions from such transmission. I would like to stress that this bill will allow the deadline to be extended for the inclusion of information on active legal persons and natural persons who are entrepreneurs in the Single State Register. What will have a positive effect on the rights and legitimate interests of the owners. Thank you. Please be supportive.
ParlaMint-UA_2013-11-19-m1.u63	Thank you. Please sit down. I invite the head of the Committee on Entrepreneurship, Regulatory and Anti-Monopoly Policy, Alexander Volodymyr's Kugel, to report.
ParlaMint-UA_2013-11-19-m1.u64	Dear Volodymyr Volodymyrovich! Dear colleagues! The Government Bill on Amendments to Existing Laws on Registration of Legal Persons and Natural Persons, which was established by July 1, 2004, is under consideration. Practically all the committees, and our own as a profile committee, turn to the hall to support it in the first reading, to take the basis. But I would like to point out that this bill does not, unfortunately, solve the problem to the end. There is no responsibility, if not implemented, for this bill. And there is no term for how they will work until the end of the commission. And so I invite Mr. Crowe, who is now in charge of the registration. So that we can work together on the second reading. In order not to have to reintroduce a standard so that the complete register that you are responding to corresponds to the reality of the existence of entrepreneurs. We ask everyone to support this bill in the first reading.
ParlaMint-UA_2013-11-19-m1.u65	Thank you. Do you want to talk about it? Please sign up for factions. Please, Fatherland faction, John Stoyko.
ParlaMint-UA_2013-11-19-m1.u66	Thank you, Vladimir Vasilovich. Ivan Stojko, party "For Ukraine!"Faction of the Fatherland. May I have the floor to Xenia Lapinius?
ParlaMint-UA_2013-11-19-m1.u67	Please, Xenia Lapina, pass it on.
ParlaMint-UA_2013-11-19-m1.u68	Thank you. Xenya Lapina, "Fatherland" faction, Party "For Ukraine!".. My dear colleagues, in connection with this bill, which is dedicated to a very important topic: filling the register, I would like to remind you that in Ukraine, with our registers -- that there are major disturbances in the register of legal, natural persons (entrepreneurs) with the register of ownership. At present, there is no tool and mechanism for the transfer of information. And there is no clear way out of this situation. The register of legal and physical persons comes out of this situation by means of the entrepreneurs themselves. But this is causing great problems today. For example, the worst position we have today in all ratings is the position of cancellation or termination of entrepreneurial activity. And by the way, it's complicated to stop entrepreneurship, which, for example, started before 2004, and not entered into a register, is impossible. First you have to pass the registration card, register it, then you have to stop. Very often, there is no one who is going to do so. Enterprises or individuals have simply left the country, or businesses have simply ceased to exist. It's impossible to stop them, there's no information about them. I mean, by voting on the basis of this law, I urge him to keep in mind that the order of the register still does not. Thank you.
ParlaMint-UA_2013-11-19-m1.u69	Thank you. Freedom Union, Yank People's Deputy.
ParlaMint-UA_2013-11-19-m1.u70	Please pass the word to Paul Kirilenko.
ParlaMint-UA_2013-11-19-m1.u71	Please, Paul Kirilenko.
ParlaMint-UA_2013-11-19-m1.u72	Paul Kirilenko, the All-Ukrainian "Freedom" Unity. Indeed, the Society does not object to supporting these changes, for, in fact, legal persons and individuals (entrepreneurs) who had been registered before 2004, but for some reason or other, they did not submit their data to a single national register, but they would still have the right to continue the procedure. That's why we support these proposals. We also realize that we really need to make additional adjustments. But speaking of which, our faction will support this bill. But speaking of entrepreneurs today, we need to talk about the problems that entrepreneurs in Ukraine face today. I want to give an example that entrepreneurs today are suffering massively from the fact that corporate directors, corporate accountants, are calling tax administrations and coercing, are actually forcing them to accept a new form of VAT compensation. Do you know what form it is? In the form of promissory notes. Society, these experiments are unacceptable. In view of the fact that more than 60 percent of Ukraine’s budget now depends on small businesses, such methods and experiments on entrepreneurs are unacceptable. We are a Ukrainian nation, a European nation. And if this continues, I want to pass on this information from all Ukrainian entrepreneurs to today's leaders, if this continues, the entrepreneurs and the Ukrainian people will just take it out.
ParlaMint-UA_2013-11-19-m1.u73	The strike faction, Sergey Kaplin.
ParlaMint-UA_2013-11-19-m1.u74	Please pass the word to Oksani Prodan.
ParlaMint-UA_2013-11-19-m1.u75	Please give it to Oksana for sale.
ParlaMint-UA_2013-11-19-m1.u76	Dear Vladimir Vasilovich, distinguished colleagues, should note that this project really needs people today. But where did he come from, and why accept it? This project solves a problem that was previously created by the introduction of a register and the introduction of the obligation of all businesses to submit additional information to the state in order for the state to keep the register that it has devised. And today those people who were registered before 2004 were obliged, and now they're completely losing their ability to engage in entrepreneurial activities in that subset if they don't make further changes to the register. That's why the project is correct. But it is not final, it is not sufficient. Because the state and government that introduced this bill in the first reading does not say what will happen next, what will happen to those entrepreneurs and businesses that have not submitted their data to the register that are not there today. And this decision needs to be made so that people can continue to work and know that they are part of this state. But there is still a very important issue, which concerns absolutely all the subjects of farming – this is the consideration of Bill 0933. Dear Volodymira Vasilovich, Bill 0933 has been sitting in parliament since the last summons. This is a project that cancels the fee for extracts from the register. Whether you are in the register or you are an enterprise or not, it is necessary to pay the costs each time. I ask you very much to submit to Parliament's consideration as soon as possible after the signing of the Association Agreement, project 0933, which will allow business to work freely. Thank you.
ParlaMint-UA_2013-11-19-m1.u77	The faction of the Ukrainian Company, the national deputy of Bidovka.
ParlaMint-UA_2013-11-19-m1.u78	Please pass the word to Balandin Sergey Viktorovich.
ParlaMint-UA_2013-11-19-m1.u79	Please give me your word.
ParlaMint-UA_2013-11-19-m1.u80	Dear colleagues, the faction of the Communist Party of Ukraine carefully studied the bill and decided to support the bill. Because the question of amending the inclusion of information on active and legal persons and individuals of entrepreneurs in the Single State Register is timely and is in line with the needs of entrepreneurs. Thank you.
ParlaMint-UA_2013-11-19-m1.u81	Thank you. The discussion is over. Please prepare for the vote. I'll bet you a vote. Are you there interviewing everyone or what is there? I am voting on draft Act No.2484 amending certain laws of Ukraine to include information on active legal persons and natural persons entrepreneurs in the Single State Register for admission as a basis. People's deputies, please vote. [[17:12:42]] For 331 Against 0, held on to 2, not voted 65. Decision taken. The factions. A draft Act (No.3116) amending article 7 of the Ukrainian Act "On compulsory public social insurance in connection with temporary loss of employment and funeral expenses" is under consideration to include a period of leave for the care of the child before reaching the age of three. How do we view it? Please, who supports the reduced procedure, vote. [[17:14:01]] For-161 Against 74, with 13, with no vote - 146. Decision taken. The factions. Reported Deputy Minister of Social Policy Viacheslav Mikolayovich Kolomiyec. Please.
ParlaMint-UA_2013-11-19-m1.u82	Thank you. Dear Volodymyr Vasilovich, distinguished national deputies. For the time being, only two types of social insurance are included in the period of parental leave until it reaches the age of three. The bill proposes to amend the Ukrainian Act "On compulsory public social insurance in connection with temporary loss of work and funeral expenses", which also provides for the provision of a three-year period for the payment of assistance in the event of temporary incapacity of the period of leave for the care of the child until it reaches the age of three. Taking into account the numerous appeals made by insured persons on this issue, as well as with a view to enhancing social security for persons who perform such an important social function as caring for young children, the bill proposes that the standard that was in force before January 2011 be renewed and that it be included in the period of maternity leave until it reaches the age of three. This period without payment of the premiums is proposed to be included in the internships in the same way as the periods of receipt of specific types of social insurance, such as the period during which insurance premiums are paid, resulting from the minimum premium. The adoption of this law does not require additional expenditure from the State budget. I'd like to support you, distinguished national MPs.
ParlaMint-UA_2013-11-19-m1.u83	Thank you. Have a seat. I invite the head of the Committee on Social Policy's Subcommittee on Humane Leontievna Denisov to report.
ParlaMint-UA_2013-11-19-m1.u84	Dear Mr. Head, honourable national deputies, the Committee of the Supreme Council of Ukraine on Social Policy and Work reviewed and supported these proposals by the Cabinet of Ministers of Ukraine. I want to draw your attention to what is meant. Two essential positions: to include in the insurance period during the period of parental leave until the child reaches the age of three as the period during which the premiums are paid on the basis of the minimum premium. Persons who were on leave to care for a child before reaching the age of three between 1 January 2011 and the entry into force of the "Congregation and Accounting of the Single Social Contribution" Act are included in the insurance internship. Why has such a need arisen just since January 1, 2011? Because by 2011, from 1 January 2008, this aid had been, was, was, and paid from the State Budget for the initiative of the Government of Timoshenko. Then, and this period was included in the insurance period, and in full the payments were received by the person who took care of the children. In July 2010, the Supreme Council of Ukraine adopted the Law on Collection and Accounting of the Single Social Contribution, which was initiated by the Government of Azarov in its legislation, established two rules that the only contribution is recorded and paid only for pension insurance and consciously, in my opinion and opinion, amended the Law of Ukraine.
ParlaMint-UA_2013-11-19-m1.u85	Finish up.
ParlaMint-UA_2013-11-19-m1.u86	Please. This period has been ruled out of the insurance system. This led to the fact that half a million women who cared for the child were not included and that the fund was reduced. Now it's just going to be back to the standard that worked with the government of Tymoshenko. That's why the "Fatherland" faction will support this bill. Thank you.
ParlaMint-UA_2013-11-19-m1.u87	Thank you. Do you want to talk about it? Please sign up for factions. This is the faction of the Party of the Regions, the national deputy of Chechetov.
ParlaMint-UA_2013-11-19-m1.u88	Dried.
ParlaMint-UA_2013-11-19-m1.u89	I'm asking you to tell Stoyan. I'm standing, aren't I?
ParlaMint-UA_2013-11-19-m1.u90	Ladies and gentlemen of the national council, honourable citizens! I want you to go back to the Diggers Act, and I have one speaker speaking from Hitman, where is the limit of cynicism, where is the limit of disorder? He called for a vote in favour of this law, threatened the Party of Regions to drop them in the trenches when their president came to the polls. He did not vote, but they voted four men. Probably for their leader who loses, where to go to Germany, and they keep these burrows for themselves. Here's cynicism. Here's cynicism. Now by law. Of course, your colleagues, what the government is doing, and this is from the President's initiative, we're saying today that women who have increased their insurance and they really have to be at least 30 years old in order to retire, these three years are very important. And that's why our political power initiated this bill, and the MPs from the Party of Regions at the Committee of Social Policy supported this bill, and the faction will vote for it. Once again, this bill means that a woman who has had a small job has given birth to a child, has taken care of a child for three years, and these three years are considered to be an insurance service. So she's going to have three years to retire. I don't think anyone will have a hand in voting against this law. And in closing, I would like to say, dear colleagues, when such important questions are being asked, let's say I'm going back to these trenches again, let's not politicize, let's actually vote. Because the Party of the Regions voted for order with the dignitaries. And the speaker, who's always dressed as a Party of Regions, has probably already prepared a standard there. Shame!
ParlaMint-UA_2013-11-19-m1.u91	Freedom Union, National MP of the Marches.
ParlaMint-UA_2013-11-19-m1.u92	Please pass the word to Ruslan Zelik.
ParlaMint-UA_2013-11-19-m1.u93	Ruslan Zelik, please give me your word.
ParlaMint-UA_2013-11-19-m1.u94	Ruslan Zelik, the All-Ukrainian Freedom Union. Dear Vladimir Vasilovich! You know, it's a good thing that the turn came to such a very important social law that it's those people that we've put into the 30-year insurance system through pension reform. And women who give birth to children do not yet understand how to give birth to children or how to earn that kind of insurance. That's why we're going to vote in favour of this bill. We think we should go back by January 1, 2012, because there was such a rule, as the co-reporter from the committee said and paid from the State Budget. It is now proposed to pay, pay for, and provide insurance for these people from the Social Insurance Fund for temporary loss of employment. That's why we're going to support this bill. We think it's extremely social and important, it's logical. Therefore, we urge everyone to vote in favour of the bill. Thank you.
ParlaMint-UA_2013-11-19-m1.u95	Thank you. The faction of the Ukrainian Company, the People's Deputy Gubar.
ParlaMint-UA_2013-11-19-m1.u96	Please give my word to my colleague Roman Shugalo.
ParlaMint-UA_2013-11-19-m1.u97	Please give me your word.
ParlaMint-UA_2013-11-19-m1.u98	Roman Shugalo, faction of the Ukrainian Company. I would like to point out immediately that the faction of the Communist Party of Ukraine supports the bill. Strangely, even government bills are worthy. This will not only restore the right of insured persons to an insurance scheme for such a vacation, but will also allow them to increase their temporary disability payments to young mothers. Unfortunately, this is not the only problem in this direction, because after an unthinkable shameful pension reform in Ukraine, the minimum insurance service for women has increased sharply from 20 to 30 years. And it's an extremely large term. So when a woman did not qualify as a pension during pregnancy, she lost significantly and could have lost her full pension right. On the other hand, care for a child and an insurance service to collect a child’s pension is extended only until the child reaches the age of three, after which the mother is usually forced to take care of the child in order to obtain the necessary insurance and also to earn a living. Most of them are forced to go to work immediately after the maternity home to feed themselves and their child. The problem is that mothers who care for or raise several children, in principle, cannot obtain the necessary insurance to obtain a minimum retirement age, and this completely undermines their social security. Regrettably, there is no adequate social support and protection mechanism for parents in Ukraine. So I also wanted to draw attention to the problem. And as for this bill, I'll repeat, the Company faction will support it. Thank you.
ParlaMint-UA_2013-11-19-m1.u99	Thank you. The Fatherland faction, National Deputy Ivan Kirilenko.
ParlaMint-UA_2013-11-19-m1.u100	Dear Vladimir Vasilovich, please give the floor to my colleague, Mikola Tomenko, a keen advocate of women's rights, an active initiator of gender laws in Ukraine.
ParlaMint-UA_2013-11-19-m1.u101	Let's take him. Please.
ParlaMint-UA_2013-11-19-m1.u102	Dear colleagues, now is a good opportunity for us to discuss the principle of the issue of pension reform. You see, since January 1, 2011, when 540,000 women who cared for a child were placed under difficult conditions, not getting enough money, they didn't have an internship, they didn't have an insurance service, and two years later the government realized that he didn't just make a mistake, but he did a serious hit on young moms, and I said, "Why didn't the government have a proper level of representation?" Would the government have come, said that, my friends, I'm sorry, the Ukrainian people, sorry young moms, sorry MPs, we're bastards, half a million young moms were suffering because of us. And it's like, by the way, and we're still lucky, they say, "Tell the thanks of the government of Azarov that he's been torturing his moms for two years, and now he forgives them." Well, my friends, we need a little dignity in the session room so that, although a minister is waiting for someone, the Deputy Prime Minister of Humanitarian and Social Policy will say that these mistakes made by the government, and the person who proposed this, are released, and the person who advised it will never advise. Because the question is not solved, we're just returning the internship, and we're not returning the money to these young moms. So our next position, of course, will be to vote for it, but we need to go back to the situation of women in general, not just young mothers. Because if anyone has ever been to a village and seen a living peasant, he knows that today, with 20 to 30 years of insurance, he can't earn that insurance job -- 30 years that so many older women have put themselves in a situation where they can't retire. So our faction also requires a return to the review of pension reform, because this law is a small fragment that we will support.
ParlaMint-UA_2013-11-19-m1.u103	Thank you. I'm asking you to strike, People's Deputy Rosenco. Wait a minute.
ParlaMint-UA_2013-11-19-m1.u104	Paul Rosenco, Vitaly Caller Faction. This bill is indeed correcting some of the situation that has arisen as a result of the adoption of a single social contribution bill. And the bill consists of only one sentence, which is more faithful to three words that suggest that we make sure that our people who are on leave to take care of the child are included in the insurance system in the temporary loss of employment. I want to fix my colleagues. The Retirement Fund is on its way now. There was only one problem with the fund. In this regard, Vladimir Vasilovich, we spoke on the committee, because the bill is small, there is a change of two words, so it is appropriate to now vote on it as a basis and as a whole. There's nothing to fix. And all the committees agree on it.
ParlaMint-UA_2013-11-19-m1.u105	Thank you. Everyone expressed their thoughts. I request your attention and prepare for the vote, national MPs. The proposal that has been made is to adopt this law as a basis and as a whole. That's why I'm voting on draft Act No.3116 amending article 7 of the Ukrainian Act "On compulsory public social insurance in connection with temporary loss of employment and funeral expenses" on the inclusion in the period of maternity leave until it reaches the age of three, for adoption as a basis and as a whole. People's deputies, please vote. On the ground and on the whole! [[17:29:46]] For 333 Against - 1, held - 0, not voted - 58. Decision taken. The factions. All the friendly factions voted. We are considering draft Law 2339 in the second reading on the amendment of Appendices Nos. 3 and 7 to the Ukrainian Act on the State Budget for Ukraine 2013 (referring to the name of the subsidy). I would like to ask the head of the Committee on Budget Affairs, Eugenia Borisovich Geller. So let's see, let's see. Omelchenko, Amendment 4. Are you insisting? No, it's not. And amendment number six, no insistence. There is an offer to accept in the second reading and in general. People's deputies, please prepare. I am voting on draft Act No. 2339 amending Appendices Nos. 3 and 7 to the Ukrainian Act on the State Budget for Ukraine for 2013 (recast of the name of the subsidy) for adoption on second reading and as a whole. Please vote. [[17:31:33]] For 275 Against – 2, held – 33, did not vote – 76. Decision taken. The factions. Regional Party - 156, Fatherland - 41, Vitalia Klicka - 0, Freedom - 31, Company - 26, non-fractional - 21. A draft Act (No0890) is under consideration to amend some of Ukraine’s legislative acts to increase the responsibility for driving in a drunken state. Reports Zuravsky Vitaly Stanislavovich, secretary of the committee.
ParlaMint-UA_2013-11-19-m1.u106	Dear Volodymyr Vasilovich, dear colleagues! Increasing responsibility for driving while intoxicating will increase driver discipline and safety on the roads and, as a result, reduce the number of accidents. Over the course of two years, Ukrainian roads have killed as many people as Soviet soldiers in Afghanistan in 10 years. In just 7 months of this year, 109,000 14 alcohol - controlled vehicles have been detected and documented by State inspectors. But what we need to understand is that these numbers are only documented. How much has been undocumented? To our conviction, an increase in the fines for driving in a drunken state will have a direct impact on the income of the state budget, increasing it. This legislative innovation also reinforces responsibility for refusing to use seatbelts and for sinking the glass of cars in violation of established standards and for talking on a mobile phone while moving. These misdemeanors may even prohibit the use of a car. All of this has been done to preserve the lives and health of our citizens. The bill was initiated by the Supreme Council of Ukraine's Chief Legal Authority without any notice. Five suggestions from the national deputies are included. We propose to adopt Project 0890 in the second reading and generally as a law. Thank you.
ParlaMint-UA_2013-11-19-m1.u107	Thank you. Please prepare for the vote, distinguished national MPs. I am voting on the draft Act (No. 0890) amending some of Ukraine’s legislative acts to increase the responsibility for the management of the means of transport in a state of drunkenness for adoption in the second reading and in general. People's deputies, please vote. [[17:34:42]] For 260 Against 8, with 18, with no vote, 94. Decision taken. The factions. Party of regions - 150, Fatherland - 1. Arseny Petrovich, you let the command vote. I voted 1 only! "Vitalia Call" is 30, "Freedom" is 33, the Company is 25, the non-factional is 21. A draft Law (No. 2188) on the amendment of the Basic Health Law of Ukraine (for the duration of contracts with heads of public, municipal health institutions) is under consideration. The head of the committee of Tetjana Dmitrovna Bachteev. Please.
ParlaMint-UA_2013-11-19-m1.u108	Dear Volodymyr Vasilovich, distinguished national deputies. Bill 2188 was adopted as a basis for the first reading on September 3, 2013. I recall that the bill provided for a minimum deadline for contracting public and municipal health officials. Regrettably, these legal terms have not been defined, which for many years has given rise to the unwarranted practice of making contracts with this category of managers for only one year. But it's clear to everyone that for 1 year, no leader is simply unable to realize his potential and achieve tangible results in the area of work entrusted to him. This is particularly relevant in the health field, where short - term projects simply do not exist. After all, it is unrealistic to have a small period of time for significant changes in the health of the population that serves a health care facility. Correcting this situation is important in connection with the ongoing reform of the health system, one of which is to increase the autonomy of medical institutions and their managers. The draft bill adopted in the first reading, by making appropriate changes to part nine of article 16 of the Basic Health Law of Ukraine, proposed that contracts with heads of state and municipal health institutions should be concluded within three years. Following the adoption of the bill in the first reading, 22 amendments were made to the committee by nine national deputies: Samylenko, Shawaryan, Truhanov, Solvar, Sharov, Sluz, Helevay, Shipko, Bachteyeva, who proposed that contracts with heads of public and municipal health institutions should be made between 3 and 5 years. Once the contract is terminated, if there are no claims on the part of the labour force, it automatically continues. The arrangements for making such contracts and their standard form will be established by the Cabinet of Ministers of Ukraine. All amendments made are considered at the committee meeting and taken into account. That's why I'm asking you to back me up. This bill is very important to the directors of medical, municipal institutions, generally as a law. All corrections are accounted for, I repeat. Thank you.
ParlaMint-UA_2013-11-19-m1.u109	Thank you, Aunt Dmitry. We can go to the vote. Ladies and gentlemen, please prepare for the vote. All adjustments are included. Please, National Deputy Odarchenko.
ParlaMint-UA_2013-11-19-m1.u110	Thank you, Vladimir Vasilovich. I'm asking you to put Bachelor 15's Amendment for confirmation. The amendment postpones the entry into force of law. You can't do that, dear fellows. For the authorities, health - care providers are highly needed in elections. Pressure on the chief physicians provides false hospital voting. Setting the minimum duration of the contract reduces the possibility of such pressure. So I'm against putting off the entry into force of this law for three months, because three more months of pressure is going to be on top doctors to sign contracts under the old rules, so this law is not going to have any effect. Please don't support the Bachelor's Amendment.
ParlaMint-UA_2013-11-19-m1.u111	Dear National Deputies! Please prepare for the vote. Please prepare for the vote. Please, Adam Ivanovich.
ParlaMint-UA_2013-11-19-m1.u112	Thank you, Vladimir Vasilovich. Martinyuk, faction of the Ukrainian Company. Dear Vladimir Vasilovich! Dear colleagues! I'm talking to Odarchenk, and I'm proposing to back him up, because there's probably a little bit of a misapprehension that's being made here, except for the Cabinet of Ministers. The law goes into effect from the moment it's signed, but the Cabinet of Ministers is given a term, as in every law that it has to bring its legislative acts into force, so that everything can be done properly without being supplemented by that except for the third paragraph. You can put it all the way in from the day of the publication, and then Kabmin has a deadline, so there's nothing you can do about it.
ParlaMint-UA_2013-11-19-m1.u113	Odarchenko made a proposal to make amendment 15 for confirmation. Right? I put to the vote amendment number 15 of the People's Deputy of Bachevo to support. People's deputies, please vote. [[17:41:53]] For-191 Against - 9, held - 23, did not vote - 153. The decision is not taken. The amendment is not confirmed. I am voting on the draft Act (2188) amending the Basic Health Law of Ukraine (for terms of contracting with heads of state, municipal health institutions) – to be adopted in a second reading and as a whole. People's deputies, please vote. [[17:42:46]] For 327 Against - 1, held - 1, did not vote - 53. Decision taken. The factions. Everyone voted. Ladies and gentlemen, may I have your attention? There is a proposal to consider the development of the Ukrainian Bookstore without any notice, and then, without discussion, an offer is made to consider the 20 decrees of the Jubilee dates. Continue work for 15 minutes. Do you have a deal? It's a deal. Please consider the draft Decree No.2246a on Parliamentary Hearing Recommendations "Problems in the Development of Ukrainian Bookkeeping, Distribution and Prospects for Reading Support in Ukraine". Kirilenko Viacheslav Anatoliyovich reports. He'll report in a minute and I'll put it to the vote.
ParlaMint-UA_2013-11-19-m1.u114	Thank you, Mr. Head. Viacheslav Kirilenko, Fatherland faction, Party "For Ukraine!".. Dear colleagues, honourable voters, the Committee on Culture and Spirituality is calling on you to support the Parliamentary Hearing Recommendation, "Problems in the Development of the Ukrainian Bookstore, Distribution and Prospects for Bookkeeping in Ukraine." On the first reading, we voted on it by virtually all MPs on July 3. November 5th, approved. On November 5, you were given a table of amendments. So for the second reading, the project was prepared jointly with the Ukrainian Association of Publishers and Publishers, as well as with the State Committee on Television and Radio Broadcasting of Ukraine. The main legal office of the Supreme Council of Ukraine launched the project without notice. Seven amendments have been made to clarify the draft regulation and do not significantly affect the content of the approved decision in the first reading. Please support and approve the decision as a whole.
ParlaMint-UA_2013-11-19-m1.u115	Thank you, Viacheslav Anatolyovich. May I put it to a vote? I am voting on the draft Decree (2246a) on the recommendation of Parliamentary hearings "Problems for the Development of Ukrainian Bookkeeping, Distribution and Prospects for the Support of Reading in Ukraine" – for adoption in a second reading and in general. People's deputies, please vote. [[B in m in s a l in]] [[17:46:00]] For-187 Against - 0, held - 10, not voted - 169. The decision is not taken. The factions. Region Party 51, Fatherland 56, Vitaly Klicka Strike 32, Freedom 33, Ukraine Company 0, non-fractional 15. [[B in m in s a l in]] What suggestions? Viacheslav Kirilenko, please.
ParlaMint-UA_2013-11-19-m1.u116	Viacheslav Kirilenko, head of the Committee on Culture and Spirituality My fellow Members, the draft decrees take into account all possible proposals and observations from all the MP factions that were made during parliamentary hearings on the subject. Therefore, I propose that I return to the vote in favour of this ruling as a whole. Thank you for your attention.
ParlaMint-UA_2013-11-19-m1.u117	Can we put the vote back to the vote? I would like to put the vote back to the vote on draft regulation 2246a. People's deputies, please vote. [[17:47:29]] For 280 Against 0, holding back, 2, not voting, 94. Decision taken. The factions. I now put to the vote draft regulation No. 2246a as a second reading and as a whole. People's deputies, please vote. [[17:48:07]] For 281 Against - 0, held - 0, unvoted - 95. Decision taken. The factions. Vote. I ask now two waves to give the word to Yavorov by all decrees, and I will put to the vote a decree all. Please. Vladimir Aleksandrovitch, two minutes. No discussion.
ParlaMint-UA_2013-11-19-m1.u118	Dear parliamentarians! This is Litwin Vladimir, who will probably confirm that I have been proposing for several years, and by the way, that was the norm for making these decisions. And I propose next year that we make a single decision. There we can make some compromises both on that side and on that side. It's smart and justifiable. That's why I'm asking those who think that right over there, they're voting with a pack, that's very normal, that you can vote with a packet like that. I want to remind you that if we don't vote today, we're going to have dates somewhere, well, 15-20 -- that's right, we're going to pass, we're just going to jump through them with a blank. Because of this, there are really some dates that you could argue with, say, the Jubilee of the North Korean Canal and so on. [[B in m in s a l in]] But if we're going to vote with one, one decision, I just want to remind you that we have one. [[B in m in s a l in]] What we have here is, literally, and Ostap Vishna, his Jubilee, you know, an outstanding Ukrainian humorist, there's also the liberation of cities from German-Fashite invaders. That's why I suggest we vote normally, calmly. Once again, it takes into account all the interests, all the decisions that you have made, the deputies, have been made. For example, it might be possible to argue about the Jubilee of Sevastopol, since it can be kept from Hersones. But since this is already the norm, the Committee on Culture and Spirituality has supported all these decisions, and I ask you to vote and close this issue today, which has been going on for six months. It's the last one, it's not coming up and it's moving again. Let's correct this flaw today.
ParlaMint-UA_2013-11-19-m1.u119	Ladies and gentlemen, I ask you to sit down, because there will be a lot of votes, 20 decrees, 20 votes, 20 votes, no questions asked. I'm asking you to get ready. Let's support each other, because half a ton of paper is spent every time, that's enough. I'm betting on the vote on the draft Decree (2886) on the 100th anniversary of the establishment of the Karadian Biological Station, the Karadá Nature Reserve of the National Academy of Sciences of Ukraine, for adoption as a foundation and as a whole. People's deputies, please vote. We're all voting, not just yelling. [[17:51:40]] For 308. Against - 0, held - 0, not voted - 61. Decision taken. The factions. Everybody votes. Let's move on. A project to mark. draft Decree (No. 3002) on the 50th anniversary of the opening of the North Crimson Canal, for adoption as a basis and as a whole. People's deputies, please vote. I ask you all to vote, for they will not vote in your statutes, even so know. [[17:52:21]] For 239. Against - 1, held - 1, not voted - 124. Decision taken. The factions. The factions! 137, Fatherland 36, Vitalia Calla 27, Freedom one lost, Company 27, non-fractional 11. The Bill of Decree No. 2983 on the marking of the Jubilee of the Masters of the Gutsulian Carnivore Vasil and Mikola Devduków – for adoption as a foundation and as a whole. People's deputies, please vote. Vote! [[17:53:21]] For 278 Against 0, held – 4, not voted – 79. Decision taken. A draft Order (2003)a is under consideration to mark 350 years from the Day of Belief by the Hetman capital, for adoption as a basis and as a whole. People's deputies, please vote. You see how the Party of Regions supports you! [[17:54:00]] For 266 Against 0, held – 1, not voted – 95. Decision taken. The factions. The draft Decree No.2092a is being considered on the 90th anniversary of the birth of Glushkov Viktor Mikhajlovich, an outstanding scientist, founder of a school of Ukrainian cybernetics for adoption as a basis and as a whole. People's deputies, please vote. [[17:54:49]] For 298 Against - 0, held - 0, not voted - 60. Decision taken. The factions. They all vote in a friendly way. A draft Order (2174a) is under consideration to mark the 400th anniversary of Peter Sagaidak's hemment in Ukrainian Cossacks for adoption as a basis and as a whole. People's deputies, please vote. "Freedom," vote. [[17:55:31]] For 263 Against - 0, held - 0, did not vote - 95. Decision taken. Why the factions? The factions. A draft Decree No.2200a is under consideration to mark the 150th anniversary of Vladimir Samuelenko's birth as a basis and as a whole. Please vote. [[17:56:21]] For 289 Against - 0, held - 0, unvoted - 67. Decision taken. The factions. Everybody votes. A draft Decree (No. 2230a) marking the 230th anniversary of the establishment of the city of Sevastopol for adoption in the first reading and in general is under consideration. Let's be friendly and vote. Please vote. [[17:57:07]] For 222 Please. He begs the word of Zharavsky, a national deputy.
ParlaMint-UA_2013-11-19-m1.u120	I address my colleagues on the left, the deputies, the patriots of Ukraine, and the Fatherland and Freedoms. We are voting in favour of all the draft regulations that our colleague Vladimir Yavorowski has just proposed. Please support me. Sevastopol is the territory of Ukraine. Please.
ParlaMint-UA_2013-11-19-m1.u121	Ladies and gentlemen, here's a question, now the Plains region, the Metropolitan Lipkovsky, the Ostrovsky and so forth. Let's make a deal, let's all vote the big ones together. Then the order will be accepted, and we'll give the Jubilee something else to consider. So I'm asking you to go back to Project 2230a, please come back. Please vote. I'm asking you very much, will we not take any more decisions, what are you doing? Let's go back. [[17:58:37]] For 232 Let's make all the decisions. I'll bet you a vote. I'm betting on a draft decree marking the 230th anniversary of the establishment of the city of Sevastopol. I would like to ask the members of the people to vote on the basis as a whole. I ask that we adopt your law, your decrees. [[17:59:15]] For 225 The evening session of the Supreme Council of Ukraine is closed. Tomorrow at 10 a.m., let's continue our consideration of these regulations.
