ParlaMint-UA_2013-04-16-m0.u1	Good morning, distinguished national MPs! Visitors and guests of the Supreme Council of Ukraine! People's deputies, please prepare for registration. Turn on the "Race" system. [[10:01:37]] There were 385 national deputies registered in the session hall. The morning session of the Supreme Council of Ukraine is open. Today is the day of the birth of Ukrainian national deputies, Olijnik Volodymyr Mikolaiovich. [[Applause]] The sale of Oxana Petrovna and the burial ground of Ivan Vasilovich. [[Applause]] Honorable deputies, announcements. According to the application and in accordance with part three of article 60 of the Supreme Council of Ukraine’s Rules, I am reporting the departure of the national deputy of Ukraine Baloga Pavel Ivanovich from the Party of the Regions. [[Applause]] Pursuant to article 60, prime. I report to the Supreme Council of Ukraine on the creation in the Supreme Council of Ukraine of the seventh vocation of the Interfractional Union of the European Choice. The heads of the inter-fractional parliamentary association "European Choice" elected the national deputies of Ukraine, Kinaha Anatoli Kirilovich and Nadvajchenka Valentina Alexandrovich. [[Applause]] Ladies and gentlemen, please calm down. On April 14th, 77th, our colleague, the national deputy of Ukraine, passed his first, third and fourth appeals, Stanislav Ivanovich Gurenko. Please honor Stanislav Ivanovich Gurenko’s memory by a moment of silence. [[A Minute of Silence]] Please sit down. Ladies and gentlemen, during my participation in the work of the Council of the Inter-Parliamentary Assembly of SND States in St. Petersburg from 11 to 12 April, I had a meeting with my fellow heads of state parliaments. There were 13 heads of parliament. Among other things, they expressed surprise at what was happening in the Hall of Plenary Meetings of the Supreme Council of Ukraine, namely, the conduct of the Ukrainian national deputies. It was very difficult for me to explain what our parliamentarians were doing in plenary sessions. The Regulations of the Supreme Council of Ukraine now in force are the law. Therefore, all are under obligation to do so. In spite of this, we can hear constantly in the session hall shouting, whistling, chanting the slogans that during a soccer match. The mutual insults of his colleagues. On the balcony and in the rostrum, we see posters with various calls. Is that how we can continue to work?Oh, my God! This is in line with the rules of the Rules?Oh, my God! I would like to point out that, in similar cases, the presiding officer of the plenary will consistently comply with the requirements of the Rules of Speech of the People’s Deputies. If the Rules are available for 3 minutes, it will be equal to 3 minutes. The word for replication will only be given to those nationals or factions whose surname or name of factions were used during the plenary session. With regard to the right to speak in another language of the Ukrainian people's deputies, it does not conflict with article 9 of the Ukrainian Act on Principles of State Language Policy. I would also like to draw the attention of the distinguished national MPs that the plenary meeting room should discuss the issues that are being prepared for consideration and, according to the Rules, are scheduled for day-to-day. The speaker should speak only on the matter from which he was given his word and keep his time. The speaker will have to turn off the microphone if the talk is out of the question. As I begin the plenary session of the Supreme Council of Ukraine, I come out that yesterday, during a heated discussion at the Conciliation Council of Deputies, we found understanding for our further work in the session hall and in the committees. The effectiveness of the Ukrainian Parliament's work will depend on the preservation of that climate of trust that we have finally achieved. Each of the political forces represented in this room has mutual claims and hidden fears that the other party will try to win in political opposition. The guarantee of compliance with the agreements reached can only be the inescapable observance of the Constitution and the laws of Ukraine by every national MP. Refusal of provocative statements, non-parliamentary conduct in the Plenary Hall should be a key factor in our concerted action in making appropriate decisions. The principle of the peoples of the country, guaranteed by the Constitution and the laws of Ukraine, provides the conditions for Parliament to work on democratic principles. When most make decisions about it. The minority has the right to vote in the adoption process. As Head of the Supreme Council of Ukraine, I will try my best to ensure that our work is within the clear framework of regulatory procedures. And that's what I'm hoping for in support of the entire room. I invite honourable deputies to carry out their duties conscientiously for the benefit of the Ukrainian people. According to article 25 of the Rules on Tuesday, we have 30 minutes for the presentations of authorized members of the MPs with proposals, announcements, statements, and messages. I'd like the factions to sign up for the performance. The word is given to the National MP of Freedom of Switzerland. The leader of the Oleg Thiagnibok faction, please.
ParlaMint-UA_2013-04-16-m0.u2	Dear National Deputies! Dear voters! Brothers and sisters in Ukraine! You know, it's so strange to hear that we're being taught morals here, and we're being told about the implementation of the law, and it's those who are very actively violating this law, violating the Rules and violating the Constitution of Ukraine. We're being charged with whistling. But our whistle, our society, our screams are just a reaction to the gross violation of Ukrainian legislation and the Constitution of Ukraine. And believe me, our whistle is nothing compared to how much the Party of Regions and Communists in the Ukrainian people whistled during this rat session on April 4th, when they fled from Gruszewski and moved on to Bankow. But most of all, to me, to a person who has a higher legal education, eventually, as well as to a lot of teachers, professors, academics who have been teaching the legal profession, even many of those who are sitting in this room, there was a reaction to this so-called "extreme plenary session" on the side of the Supreme Administrative Court. Society, it is a disgrace that we live in such a state when courts do not fully apply the standards laid down in the Constitution of Ukraine and in the Rules, and they are acting solely on the basis of a call from the Bank, carrying out political orders. How sad it was for me to be told by professors who taught many of us legal skills about how to teach students tomorrow. I was on the Conciliation Council yesterday talking about, and how are the law students supposed to feel today, especially the junior law students who come in, learn, and tomorrow they're going to be professionals, professionals in what state? In a state where they spit on the law, in a state where the Constitution reads one black in white, and the power that has the majority to implement its wishes, it treats this law differently, and then the relevant judicial authorities legitimize this treatment. Society, this is the sign of the usurpation of power when the executive, legislative, and judicial authorities are in one hand, in the hands of one criminal oligarchy clan. These are the signs of the construction of dictatorship in the Ukrainian state, and these are the signs of the destruction of the right, when one of the most important national institutions is destroyed -- Parliament. But in fact, Parliament is -- this is the debate -- in fact, Parliament is the debate, in fact, Parliament is not what most have the law, it is the law, and it will be what they said. In fact, there is an opposition to making changes and additions to any bill to implement what our voters are talking about, what our voters are asking. And so that these bills don't come out of one faction and are guaranteed as most want, because they won the elections, and the bills are a certain product of compromise, the bill is when different opinions are taken into account in different parts of Ukraine, different sections of the population. That is why Parliament, if we are to exist, must exist according to European principles. What happened on April 4 is a shame. And we were told that the ambassadors of the European States responded to what seemed to be the blocking of the rostrum. We are representatives of three opposition factions on the same day also had a meeting with about twenty ambassadors of the European Union. And they told us the exact opposite. They told us that there are no such cases in European practice, as is the case in the Ukrainian Parliament, when it is stated that meetings should be held right here, at that address, and when there are circumstances in which this room can be abandoned, these constitutional rules are ignored by the majority, as we were told by representatives of European countries. In addition, of course we think it is a great shame that on April 4, several extremely negative laws were adopted for the Ukrainian State, social development and economic development of our crane, in particular 2177, and society should know about it. This is the Law on amending the Budget Code to determine some of the revenue of the budget. This law is supposedly passed, a pseudo-approved law that completely destroys the local government itself. It legitimizes the corrupt scheme for the collection of budgetary commitments without planned appointments and takes another source of revenue into the local budgets – the registration assembly for the conduct of the state registration of legal persons and natural persons. Finally, 2476, which was adopted, is a draft Act amending article 6 of the State Budget Act 2013 on State guarantees. Which actually legitimizes Ukraine's leap into a debt pit, it's about huge loans that are being made, let's say, by the state. And finally, the 1154 law on the characteristics of the sanitation bank, the essence of which is to create a recovery bank, the main task of which is to buy problematic assets from commercial banks. So the state will now be responsible for the loans that will have to be paid to people, not private commercial banks, it's purely lobbyist law. Dear Society, we want Parliament to work for us - Ukrainians to respect and respect us, we need it to work legally. And we will, the opposition, do so. Glory to Ukraine!
ParlaMint-UA_2013-04-16-m0.u3	It's Vital Call's Faction. Please, the head of the faction, National Deputy Vitaly Klitschko.
ParlaMint-UA_2013-04-16-m0.u4	Dear colleagues, I am sure that every citizen of Ukraine wants to live by European standards. And this week we have to take a serious step to bring Ukraine closer to European standards -- and sign an association agreement with the European Union. How can we do this? First, we must ensure justice. Not only should a free pension reform be abolished but a new model of the pension system also be proposed. Instead of boasting about improvements, the government should present such a program in this room. No wonder there is no such thing in the government, and for the third year the government has been operating without a program. That is why we demand the responsibility of the government and the resignation of the government this week. The government suggests that this issue should not be extended until Friday, but that it should be considered on Wednesday. Another thing didn't work out. We insist that no government representative can be appointed Prime Minister. The whole team didn't make it, and they all have to take responsibility for their actions. We hope that the Cabinet of Ministers will present a clear plan for the preparation and submission of the bills necessary for the signing of an agreement with the European Union. Because those documents that the government is filing, they don't stand any criticism. It's a shame when MPs do the government's work, and they have to create working groups to work out the drafts before the first reading. One cannot repeat the law on special confiscation (draft 1103), the criminal liability of legal persons (this is bill 2032). This quality and philosophy of document preparation are yet another basis for the resignation of the government. European standards are, above all, respect for human rights and freedoms. Therefore, we demand that we support the decision to appoint the election of the city of Kyiv and Kyivrad. Dear colleagues! Do not hide from the decision of the Constitutional Court, please do your duty. You don't have to create a precedent. No one will allow citizens to violate their right to choose. Today we want to postpone and postpone the election of the Kiev City Head or cancel, and tomorrow we will also cancel the presidential election. I also want to warn the authorities. Do not try to change the Constitution and the laws of the so - called referendum. We need to adopt new legislation on a referendum that corresponds primarily to democratic norms. The right to a fair trial is an inalienable right. If the court is unjust and the case is politically motivated, it is called reprisals, they must be stopped. Therefore, we demand support for the decriminalization of articles used for political repression, particularly in the case of Julia Timoshenko. Responsibility for corruption must finally be given to draft bills that provide transparent revenue for officials, the obligation to publish their declarations, and lists of people who have been drawn to corruption. All bills must undergo anti-corruption expertise on the anti-corruption committee in order to prevent the spread of budgetary resources. This is Bill 2077. Bills aimed at destroying the foundations of corruption must also be supported. In particular, simplifying administrative procedures so that officials, first and foremost, do not collect the necessary help. — Law 2149. Reducing the amount of a single social contribution and simplifying its payment is essential in order to get the wages out of the shadows (draft 1182). If these projects require committee decisions, they could look back this Wednesday and take them to the hall. Thank you very much, colleagues, for your attention.
ParlaMint-UA_2013-04-16-m0.u5	Faction of the Ukrainian Company, Simonenko Peter Mikolaiovich.
ParlaMint-UA_2013-04-16-m0.u6	Dear colleagues, distinguished voters! From the anti-crisis package of draft laws introduced by the Company faction this week, some of them will be on the agenda. I am addressing my colleagues today, and I would like to ask for the support of those draft laws that are very important to our constituents. First of all, this is draft Law 1220, which states that it is necessary to pay a decent salary for work on holidays and non-working days. And the bill introduced by Comrade Tsibenko provides that double wages, not the rate, will be paid to our workers on holidays and non-working days. We also propose and ask for your support, this draft law is of great importance to young mothers who, when giving birth to a child, stand in line and wait for certificates to be issued by those or others in order to obtain State support for the birth of a child. Draft Law 2313, which was introduced by Igor Grigoryevich Kaletnik, provides for a reduction in the number of documents to receive State aid at the birth of the child. I also look forward to your understanding, your esteemed colleagues, with the support of Law 1046. It is that we must protect our raw materials and exclude Ukraine's further falling into the commodity supplement of Europe and the destruction of high-tech production in Ukraine. Therefore, this draft law, which we have introduced, now provides for greater State control over the use of natural resources and, of course, State control over the use of resources when they are held by private-owned entities. We also propose, and this draft Law 1061 also provides social support for health professionals and educators working in rural areas. And these additional social benefits need to be introduced today to preserve rural intelligence and enable young professionals to work in rural areas with public support. For the second reading, we will necessarily add a faction of the Company to the fact that cultural workers should also be included in this category. That is, all social infrastructure must receive State support from the State. We also call on the people's deputies to vote in favour of abolishing pension reform. This week, the next drafts will be considered. And the initiative taken by the Company's faction to reduce the retirement age for women at 55 years of age and 60 should find support among us. So is the abolition of medical reform. These are the practical issues that have been brought before the Supreme Council by the faction of the Company. And we hope that we will find understanding among colleagues in order to make a positive decision on these issues. But there is another problem, the biggest public issue. It is that Ukraine's energy security as a State is at risk today and, again, it is deliberately destroyed. Judge your own esteemed colleagues. During the first quarter of this year, government mines produced losses of 3.6 billion grevens. More than 52 percent last year. If we're talking about energy security, the net loss of NAC "Neftegaza" last year was 10.2 billion grivens. So we are facing a particular fact today. When the same losses are also incurred by the State, billions of dollars are also incurred for the State budget. The non-payment of salaries for miners was only 322 million in January. With the help of oligarchs and major crime, the same dignitaries in Luganskina and Donetskina are destroying just the coal industry. Because last year, more than 6 million tons of coal were extracted from these mines, while at the same time 5 million tons of coal were stored in thermal power stations and 2 million tons of coal were stored in the same mines. There are already unique cases of coal combustion, and the destruction of the largest thermal power plant in Europe as a “coal” talks about much. So let's take another look at the faction of the Company, what needs to be done. And on behalf of our faction, we propose and categorically insist on the consideration of our bills from the same anti-crisis package, which relates to the return of strategic enterprises and entire industries to public property, and to start with the energy sector in order to save the economy of our Ukraine. We insist on a constitutional ban on trade in land. We insist on establishing the most severe State control over the use of our nitrites. We recall once again the position of our faction - the Ukrainian gas is for the Ukrainian people and the Russian gas for the Ukrainian oligarchs. In addition, we also require the adoption of our bill as a whole, which today provides for the protection of our citizens with the introduction of 0.5 per cent of their daily salary. These are questions that are now related to the moratorium on price and tariff rises, housing and utility services for the population. Moratorium on eviction for non-payment of public services until the payroll is fully repaid in Ukraine. As communists today, we say once again that we need to change foreign policy radically today. Ukraine must immediately decide to join the Customs Union. As a participant in the International Forum on the Eurasian Economic Perspective last week in Leningrad, I reiterate that we have allies who are ready to respond to the right proposals from Ukraine.
ParlaMint-UA_2013-04-16-m0.u7	Finish it.
ParlaMint-UA_2013-04-16-m0.u8	To assist Ukraine in joining the Customs Union and the Eurasian Economic Outlook. Thank you.
ParlaMint-UA_2013-04-16-m0.u9	The Fatherland faction. Jacenjuk Arsenij Petrovich is a national deputy.
ParlaMint-UA_2013-04-16-m0.u10	Mr. Head, your esteemed colleagues, out of opposition and our political opponents! It is justice to fight for it. And the fact that, without looking at the entire repressive machine -- the prosecution, the police, the selling courts, the corrupt law enforcement system and the powerful vertical of power, our political brothers, the person who proved to be a real fight, the person who served the Ukrainian people with dignity and political imprisonment -- was Yuri Lucenko. That is why justice is and must be fought for. [[Applause]] As an opposition, we demand, on the same grounds, in the shortest possible time, a decision on the restoration of justice and the immediate release of Julia Timoshenko as a person who is illegally imprisoned and politically persecuted by the regime of Viktor Yanukovic. Julia Timoshenko must be free. [[Applause]] Political persecution applies not only to politicians but also to ordinary citizens. Those people who just want to get out and use their constitutional right to take a stand against this regime and against that authority is the right to peaceful meetings. So yesterday, a number of dozens of civil activists and journalists were arrested under the sad residence of Mezigiriya. We're talking to law enforcement officials. You don't have to go after journalists. You have to go after criminals. And criminals on the other side of Medjugorje, not where our civil activists stood and not where people demanded to be heard. Our task as opposition is to make Ukraine a European state. And that's why a few questions are to be considered at the current plenary week as a requirement of opposition included in the agenda. First of all, we'd like to start with the election of Mayor Kiev. It's not just the election of Mayor Kiev, it's actually a matter of fundamental value of democracy, of fundamental value, when one can choose and be chosen. The postponement of elections in Kiev is nothing more than an attempt to postpone the election of both the President and the Parliament. We are insisting today on the vote of this decree, and if the decision is failed, the opposition will again make an appropriate decision and demand that the city of Kiev have its mayor and its Kiev City Council. The pension reform adopted by the government of Azarov and voted by the majority should be abolished. And our bill will be considered today, and it's good that it's included in the agenda. But it would be much better if our political opponents, first of all the Party of Regions, publicly acknowledge that this pension reform was an economic and social failure and cancel the pension reform at the request of the opposition. Third. We will also consider decriminalizing the articles of the Criminal Code under which Julia Timoshenko is illegally imprisoned. These are requirements for both the UN Convention and our European partners. If you're not talking, but in fact, you really want Ukraine to become a European state, a Party of Regions, vote for our bill. The European Union, which, in anticipation of real steps, takes real steps towards the adoption of laws that make Ukraine, in fact, a European state with European standards, European values and European laws. We've drafted a series of bills as opposition, primarily those laws that deal with the fight against corruption. There will be a vote Wednesday on the creation of the National Anti-Corruption Bureau, which is a requirement of the European Union. There will be a vote Wednesday on the anti-corruption review of all officials, all levels, and this is also a requirement of the European Union. We insist that our political opponents from the Party of Regions vote for the anti-corruption package. The opposition votes in favour of all the laws that meet European standards that bring Ukraine closer to the European Community. This is our programming requirement, not the programming objectives of our opponents, and that is why we will consistently bring Ukraine closer to the European Union. A specific question regarding the departure or court meeting of the Supreme Council of Ukraine. We stress once again, this was the first and last time in the history of this Parliament when you illegally convened meetings. For this reason, we have asked the Attorney General's Office for one purpose, not this one, but the new Attorney General of Ukraine has brought to justice all those who illegally convened the session and replaced the will of the people of Ukraine. And for the rest. On Friday, there will be a vote in favour of the Resolution of Distrust of the Cabinet of Ministers of Ukraine. The Ukrainian people do not trust this Cabinet, and the entire Ukrainian Parliament should express such mistrust. We're talking about sending the disgraceful government of Yanukovicz-Azarov to resign. This will be the only right decision of this Supreme Council of Ukraine. Thank you for your attention.
ParlaMint-UA_2013-04-16-m0.u11	A party of regions, the national deputy of Matvienkov.
ParlaMint-UA_2013-04-16-m0.u12	Dear Vladimir Vasilevich! Dear colleagues! [[B in m in s a l in]] Another plenary week is beginning today, and it is highly desirable that the MPs stop the senseless opposition and start a constructive work. Parliament is already indebted to our people. The first months of our meeting in the session hall we really did work for just over 10 days. We need to address important issues of an economic and social nature. That is what people expect from us, not the resistance, the struggle and the blockade of the rostrum. In the country and the world, there is no exaggeration in the economic emergency, and the decline in markets, acute and crisis has exacerbated the already difficult situation in our country. Thus, in one of the main sectors of the steel industry, production has fallen by more than 25 per cent in recent years. 2013 does not promise much improvement. This means that the budget will lack the much-needed money to pay salaries, increase pensions and implement social programmes. The world is looking for ways to address these problems, all countries are fighting for markets, and seeking to support the national producer. In order to survive under these conditions, to maintain economic and political independence, the entire State machinery, and, above all, Parliament must mobilize its efforts and respond promptly to the challenges of time. Of course, language, what you are now yelling so much about, history, culture is the most important component of Ukraine as an independent State. But let's face it, political independence can't be without economics. Metalworking, engineering, energy, entrepreneurship, investment-friendly conditions must be supported, and this must be done in order to ultimately improve the standard of living of people. Today, more than ever, Parliament needs to seek and make the necessary vital decisions. Take a look at the agenda: dozens of important bills are awaiting consideration. Parliament needs to take seriously the maintenance of basic sectors of the economy, the transfer to targeted grants of concessional categories of citizens, the facilitation of the registration of small and medium-sized enterprises, the improvement of the environmental situation in regions with severe technological burdens and other important problems. Instead, not only does part of Parliament openly ignore its responsibilities but it does not allow colleagues to work. In such a situation, the majority simply had to move the meeting from the session room to another location. I now turn to the opposition: you have many good programme goals that could improve the lives of our people. Why is the principle of “the worst, the better” so far fundamental to you? Is it necessary to bring it to ruin if it is to start working in the economy? Should this be the position of the present Ukrainian patriots? Can you imagine a group of doctors or teachers because of their political views that have blocked hospitals or schools? I don't see this situation at first, because I'm sure these people are responsible and understand, they remember their debt. It turns out that the Supreme Council is the only body in the country whose language prevents it from working. There had been a faction that required the Parliamentary apparatus to make public information on the nationality of each national MP. I'll tell you, we're all one nation, we're all Ukrainians, and we all love our country, and we don't have to privatize the monopoly on love for our country. The dangerous use of force in recent political disputes is also at risk. In the session room, instead of doing lawmaking, we're seeing more and more of a face-to-face show. Many of those present are not the first year in Parliament, and understand that the routine work on drafts is less effective in terms of piranhas, but it is our primary objective. If the situation in Parliament is not normalized, it will inevitably be a matter of the capacity of the Supreme Council. It is time to stop the political circus and get back to lawmaking. As a national MP elected in the Majority District, we say that the majors came to Parliament to make sure they didn't. Not to participate in the mess, but to effectively address the issues and penalties that our voters have expressed during the electoral campaign. And I am sure that this position is shared by each major and most of the deputies elected on the party lists. Most of us, and that is why we could pass many of the laws that are normal and fruitful for our State. There are examples of constructive work. The President's decision to liberate Jury Lucenka was a major step towards lifting the political tensions in society, and virtually unanimous support for the people's deputies received a treaty with the European Union on visa facilitation. In doing so, I would like to draw attention to the fact that steps towards rapprochement with the European Union are seen not as an end in itself, but as an opportunity to continue the country's extensive modernization and, above all, its economy. We are not going to give up mutual cooperation with the Customs Union member States, with which the total turnover has already exceeded $65 billion. In order to protect our national interests in our relations with our partners both in the West and in the East, we must be guided exclusively by economic pragmatism and some by economic selfishness, but we must forget about narrow political ambitions. At the end of his statement, I remind my colleagues of our duty, the duty of the people's representative to the electorate, and it is not only to defend ideology and party programmes, but also to enact the laws necessary for the country's programmes, for the people as a whole. And no good goals or principles can be justified by idleness and failure to fulfil their direct responsibilities. We have come to a dangerous point that can be breached by the irreparable harm done to Ukraine. We all need to bear in mind the problems of our constituents and to look constructively for solutions.
ParlaMint-UA_2013-04-16-m0.u13	Showtime's up. The list of issues that are proposed to discuss the decision-making process today is that of the national MPs. Therefore, we turn to the question of amending the Constitution of Ukraine: the draft Law (Registration No. 2049) amending article 98 of the Constitution of Ukraine (for the powers of the Court of Auditors). The bill was introduced by the President of Ukraine in accordance with article 154 of the Constitution of Ukraine and defined as urgent. According to the requirements of part one of article 146 of the Rules, the matter is dealt with exclusively by a full discussion procedure. Therefore, the word for the report is given to the Councillor of the President of Ukraine, Head of the Directorate-General for Constitutional and Legal Modernization of the Administration of Ukraine, Ms. Ivanovni Stavniczuk.
ParlaMint-UA_2013-04-16-m0.u14	The Honourable Head of the Supreme Council, the Honourable People's Deputies of Ukraine! The President of Ukraine submitted to the Supreme Council of Ukraine a draft law amending article 98 of the Constitution of Ukraine. The purpose of the bill is to extend the competence of the Court of Auditors to part of its mandate to monitor Ukraine's state budget to ensure full control over the implementation of Ukraine's State budget. Please note, the country's distinguished national deputies, which is about control on behalf of the Supreme Council of Ukraine, which is about expanding powers in the field of parliamentary control. The bill also, taking into account the requirements of part two of article 19 of the Constitution of Ukraine, suggests that the organization of authorization and order of operation of the Court of Auditors are defined by law. The need to adopt the bill is justified by the following. First, the adoption of the changes proposed by the Head of State to the Constitution of Ukraine will allow for real financial control over the implementation of the State budget of Ukraine, because the implementation of the State budget is a complete process and full control of it should consist of both monitoring the use and the availability of budgetary resources. For example, I will note that the practice of the Court of Auditors exercising control over the revenue part of the State budget over the years 2006-2010 testifies to the effectiveness and necessity of such control. Second of all, it's no less important. The adoption of the bill in practice will ensure the principle of publicity and transparency of the budgetary process. This principle includes informing the public of all the issues: the creation, consideration, approval and implementation of the State budget and the monitoring of its implementation, and is one of the fundamental principles of the Ukrainian budgetary system. Thus, by placing an independent authority on the Court of Auditors to monitor the implementation of Ukraine’s State Budget, both part of the expenditure and part of the revenue, it will be possible to ensure the right of the whole community to receive full, transparent and objective information on the state of the national economy and state finances. Finally, the relevance of the changes proposed by the Head of State to the Constitution of Ukraine is due to the fact that the practice of extending the powers of the independent financial control body, to which the Court of Auditors is in Ukraine, is in line with public international standards. Today, Ukraine remains one of the few nations in the world where the higher body of government financial control has limited powers of external audit. Monitoring the implementation of Ukraine's State Budget for both income and expenditure is a requirement of fundamental international instruments in the area of government finance control. In particular, it is the Lima Declaration on Public Finance Audit and the Mexican Declaration on the Independence of Higher Financial Supervisors. The introduction of amendments to the Constitution of Ukraine in part of the expansion of the powers of the Court of Auditors is also one of the obligations of our State within the framework of the agenda of the "Ukraine-EU" Association. The question of making changes to article 98 of the Basic Law of Ukraine has, as is known, been repeatedly considered by the Constitutional Court of Ukraine. The Constitutional Court of Ukraine, in its conclusions on the bills proposed to amend article 98 of the Basic Law, noted that the changes that provided for the extension of the powers of the Court of Auditors by giving it the functions of control over the formation of the income part of the State budget of Ukraine met the requirements of article 157 of the Constitution of Ukraine. The relevant changes do not provide for the abolition or restriction of human and civil rights and freedoms, nor are they aimed at eliminating independence or violating Ukraine’s territorial integrity. Proposals for amendments to article 98 of the Constitution were considered and supported at the meeting of the Constitutional Assembly on September 21, 2012. The adoption of the proposed amendments to the Constitution will enable effective monitoring of the implementation of Ukraine's State budget in full, strengthen the role of the Court of Auditors as an independent financial control body in Ukraine and further improve the regulatory and legal regulation of the Court of Auditors' activities in accordance with international standards in the field of public finances auditing. Honorary parliamentarians, the President of Ukraine is asking you to support the inclusion of the bill in the agenda of the day-to-day session of the Supreme Council of Ukraine on the seventh call and referral to the Constitutional Court of Ukraine to reach a conclusion on its compliance with the requirements of 157 and 158 articles of the Constitution of Ukraine. Ladies and gentlemen, please support this bill. Thank you.
ParlaMint-UA_2013-04-16-m0.u15	Ladies and gentlemen, is there a question for the rapporteur? Please sign up, three minutes. Please sign up. People's deputy Kugel. Alejandro Volodymyr, please.
ParlaMint-UA_2013-04-16-m0.u16	Dear Mrs. Stavniczuk, I support you in part of the need for increased parliamentary control. And indeed, the instruments of the Court of Auditors in this case are the most important. I would like to draw your attention, with such an opportunity, to the fact that the appointment of the first deputy, the opportunity to work, the first deputy, all the deputies and principal supervisors of the Court of Auditors are working illegally today. Their term of office has ended. So today we have a control body that doesn't work. Please, as a lawyer, counsellor of the President, pay attention to this. Because I'm going to the calculus. And the answers I get as a representative of the opposition don't even have the ability to even say that there's at least one percent of the professionals there. I hope we support this bill and inclusion.
ParlaMint-UA_2013-04-16-m0.u17	Please, Marina Ivanovna.
ParlaMint-UA_2013-04-16-m0.u18	Dear Alexander Volodymyrically, and you, and I understand that your question is relevant. I share your concern. Yet it has nothing to do with this bill, which is currently under consideration by the Supreme Council of Ukraine. Thank you for supporting this bill. I'll pay attention.
ParlaMint-UA_2013-04-16-m0.u19	Freedom Union, Martinks.
ParlaMint-UA_2013-04-16-m0.u20	The word to Mohnik, the word to Mohnik, Andrew to Mohnik. I give you my word.
ParlaMint-UA_2013-04-16-m0.u21	Please, pass it on.
ParlaMint-UA_2013-04-16-m0.u22	Andrew Mohnik, All-Ukrainian Freedom Union. Dear Mrs. Marino! The question is. Why is this selective application of the Lima Declaration? [[B in m in s a l in]] Why do you apply one principle of income control, but for example, you don't include having powers to control public procurement services at the expense of government funds, the economic activity of commercial and industrial enterprises with public participation, the activity of organizations receiving subsidies, subsidies. So in fact, everything that's stated in this Lima Declaration, you only take selectively and you incorporate into the Constitution. Isn't it because the President just wants to show Europe that he wants to go there, and he doesn't really want to take real steps to overcome it, to fight corruption? Thank you.
ParlaMint-UA_2013-04-16-m0.u23	Dear Mr. Andrey, I'm sorry, of course, I just heard your last question, your part of the question, just the last phrases. There was no possibility, I'm sorry. So this bill is really aimed at, including overcoming such a shameful phenomenon in the Ukrainian state and society as corruption. Because full budget control really has to be done not only through use but also through the accumulation of budgetary control costs. A series of incomes must be under state control. I think this mechanism is really a real, active anti-corruption mechanism.
ParlaMint-UA_2013-04-16-m0.u24	Thank you. Have a seat.
ParlaMint-UA_2013-04-16-m0.u25	Thank you.
ParlaMint-UA_2013-04-16-m0.u26	The word for the report is given to the Head of the Committee on Legal Policy, Valery Volodymyrovich Pisarenko. Please.
ParlaMint-UA_2013-04-16-m0.u27	Honourable Volodymira Vasilovich, distinguished National Deputies, the Committee of the Supreme Council on Legal Policy considered at its meeting on 6 March 2013 the Ukrainian President's draft Law on Amendments to Article 98 of the Constitution of Ukraine concerning the powers of the Court of Auditors. The purpose of the bill is to extend the competence of the Court of Auditors to part of its mandate to exercise control over Ukraine's state budget, which will allow for full control of Ukraine's state budget. Since the Basic Law of Ukraine foresees the exercise of control by the Court of Auditors only through the use of the funds of the state budget of Ukraine, leaving out of control the income portion of the budget, which is an integral part of the budgetary process. The bill also, taking into account the requirements of part two of article 19 of the Constitution of Ukraine, suggests that the organization of authorization and order of operation of the Court of Auditors is governed by law. According to part two of article 145 of the Supreme Council of Ukraine’s Rules of Procedure, the committee established the following. According to article 154 of the first part of article 156 of the Basic Law of Ukraine, a bill submitted to the Supreme Council of Ukraine is an appropriate subject of the legislative initiative of the President of Ukraine. According to the committee, the adoption of the bill does not require a simultaneous amendment to Chapter I of the General Principles, chapter III of the Elections. The referendum and chapter XI, "Introducing Change to the Constitution of Ukraine." The draft amendment to article 98 of the Constitution of Ukraine of the Supreme Council of the Sixth and Seventh Councils was not considered. During its term of office, the Supreme Council of Ukraine did not change the provisions of article 98 of the Ukrainian Constitution. After reviewing the bill, the committee concluded that it did not have the position that in the earlier conclusions and decisions of the Constitutional Court of Ukraine had been recognized as nullifying or restricting the rights and freedoms of a person and a citizen. Either aimed at eliminating independence or violating Ukraine’s territorial integrity. The committee also has reason to believe that the provisions of the bill meet the requirements of articles 157, 158 of the Basic Law of Ukraine and will not need further elaboration. The Committee points out that the question of extending the competence of the Court of Auditors in its sleep chats has been repeatedly considered by the Constitutional Court of Ukraine in respect of the exercise of control over the coming into the State budget. In particular, the Constitutional Court of Ukraine concluded in 1999 in the year 2000, 2002. According to the Constitutional Court of Ukraine, the changes to article 98 of the Constitution of Ukraine, which provides for an extension of the powers of the Court of Auditors, by granting its functions to control the formation of an income part of the State budget of Ukraine, meet the requirements of article 157 of the Constitution of Ukraine as such, which do not provide for the abolition or restriction of human and civil rights and freedoms and are not aimed at eliminating independence or violating Ukraine's territorial integrity. Taking into account what has been said, the Committee on Legal Policy has decided to recommend to the Supreme Council of Ukraine a bill submitted by the President of Ukraine to amend article 98 of the Constitution of Ukraine to include in the order of the day-to-day session of the Supreme Council of Ukraine the seventh vocation and to refer to the Constitutional Court to obtain a conclusion on its compliance with the requirements of articles 157 and 158 of the Constitution of Ukraine. In addition to the draft decree of the Supreme Council of Ukraine, please support the above. Thank you.
ParlaMint-UA_2013-04-16-m0.u28	Any questions? Is it? Please sign up, three minutes. Please, the People's Deputies of Popescu.
ParlaMint-UA_2013-04-16-m0.u29	Thank you. Sand, faction of the Party of the Regions. Valery Volodymyrovich, the adoption of the amendments to the Constitution will contribute to our desire to sign the Association of Ukraine with the European Union. This will also contribute to the fight against corruption. In general, I believe that we should have accepted these changes at the time of the adoption of the Constitution on June 28, 1996. But I have a pragmatic question. Since this is political opposition in our Parliament, what do you think are the chances of receiving support in two-thirds of the Supreme Council's votes once the Constitutional Court has reached its conclusion on these amendments? Thank you.
ParlaMint-UA_2013-04-16-m0.u30	Thank you, Your Honor Ivan Vasilovich. Once again, I welcome you with my birthday. You know, you've really pointed out that this law still has a European orientation. Because we're probably not the only country in Europe that has a control body. The supervisory and financial authority of Parliament has no right to oversee the revenue part of the budget. So I hope that my colleagues will support this bill, regardless of any political affiliation. Thank you.
ParlaMint-UA_2013-04-16-m0.u31	Freedom Union, Peaceable People's Deputy.
ParlaMint-UA_2013-04-16-m0.u32	Please pass the word to Switzerland, Igor.
ParlaMint-UA_2013-04-16-m0.u33	Pass the word.
ParlaMint-UA_2013-04-16-m0.u34	Igor Schwaika, deputy faction of the All-Ukrainian Freedom Union. In fact, today's position of our faction supports the inclusion of this bill in the agenda. But so far, we have some questions. First of all, the Court of Auditors has repeatedly examined the issues that are now relevant to the use of funds. But the question is, and is it primarily about your committee, which are effective mechanisms for the application of the principles of the Lima Declaration when controlling the coming and using of it? Today, the situation in the country is as follows: The Court of Auditors may find a violation, but no real step can be taken to exercise parliamentary control. What are some of the suggestions made by the profile committee in this field?
ParlaMint-UA_2013-04-16-m0.u35	Thank you, dear fellow, for asking, it is indeed relevant. The committee has already worked on this. And I want to say and point out to you that the changes to the Constitution provide that the regulation of the activities of the Court of Auditors will be determined by a separate law. Our committee, already working with the House of Auditors, is working on a bill that we will need to adopt in this room after making changes to the Constitution. It's in the new bill on the Court of Auditors that you and I can determine the status, mandate and actual capacity of the Court of Auditors to control the state budget. And once again, I want to support you in that we should not be lagging behind as a higher legislative body in matters of control over what is happening in the state. Thank you.
ParlaMint-UA_2013-04-16-m0.u36	Sit down, time's up. Please register with the factions for the performance. People's MP Bondarenko, please. Please turn on the microphone of the Bondarenko People's Deputy. Please, you have three minutes.
ParlaMint-UA_2013-04-16-m0.u37	Please give the word to Ruslan Knazevitch.
ParlaMint-UA_2013-04-16-m0.u38	Please hand over Knyazevich. Turn on the rostrum.
ParlaMint-UA_2013-04-16-m0.u39	Dear colleagues, today is absolutely not about a permanent passing bill in Parliament's walls. I'm just paying your attention for a moment, and I'm sorry to distract you from the important things, that we're considering making changes to the Constitution. And what Marina Ivanovna Stavniyczuk was doing here today was not only acting as Head of the Chief Executive, but also acting as Secretary of the Constitutional Assembly of the President of Ukraine. And that's very important. Because this fact is both the passing of the law and the presentation of Marina Ivanovna, where she said that it is not just her position, it is not just the position of the President, but the position of the entire Constitutional Assembly, we have established with you that making changes to the Constitution in accordance with the Constitution itself and in accordance with the decision of the Constitutional Court since 2005 is only possible in the walls of Parliament, and any other way is unconstitutional, which means they cannot be allowed in Ukraine. And it's an enormous thing, even more important than the very essence of the matter, although it's also important. Because today, indeed, we are performing a purely technical function, it is our constitutional duty to include matters in the agenda and to send them to the Constitutional Court, because in accordance with article 159 of the Constitution, we cannot then consider essentially until the relevant conclusion of the Constitutional Court is reached. And only a parliament entrusted with other subjects, along with a President who does not have such a right, should submit to the Constitutional Court for its conclusions. And we are obliged today. This is our duty: to put a dot in the debate on the possibility of amending the Constitution in a legal way. And as for the very question that we're talking about, your honourable colleagues, this question has already been addressed in the walls of Parliament and was part of the Constitution. It just happened that in 2010, the Constitutional Court annulled changes to the Constitution in general, not selectively, and even those that were overweight and which it itself had defined as fundamentally important in order to properly control expenditure from the budget, allowed it to be abolished in 2010. Today there is an attempt to correct the Constitutional Court and restore justice in this matter. The only problem is that we've agreed with you here on a number of occasions that the Court of Auditors, as usual, is in all the democratic countries of the world, is the mechanism for controlling opposition to expenditure and budget revenues. And so the second question is, absolutely fair, to reshape leadership, to fill those vacancies that are and finally to enable the opposition to effectively exercise control over government in part of the government budget. Thank you.
ParlaMint-UA_2013-04-16-m0.u40	Freedom Union, National Deputy Mohnik, please.
ParlaMint-UA_2013-04-16-m0.u41	Dear colleagues, the All-Ukrainian Freedom Union will support this draft law, because we think that control over the revenue of the state budget is an enormous function, because today we can't see how fair this coming is actually happening, and we can't understand how much the state is losing when it's underincome from the corruption schemes that are now active in the state. The U.S. Freedom Association actually thinks that this bill is to some extent partial because, in fact, it doesn't fully use the Lima Declaration, it doesn't actually. Those regulations that would be controlled by government purchases are not. The procurement of public funds services, where the biggest corruption schemes are taking place, is not controlled by the activities of those institutions that receive subsidies or grants from the State budget, or by those enterprises that have a share of the State in their statutory funds. So in fact, this law would need work, but once again, I stress, it's extremely important to control revenue. It is also important that the Court of Auditors be able to control those processes and influence those processes regarding expenses. Because we're getting reports from the Court of Auditors, and those reports don't in any way affect that corruption officials are getting merited so that corruption officials will go to jail so that the state doesn't lose the money it's losing today. So the accounting room actually works in the hairline, there's actually no consequences for the execution of her reports. Next question. The Court of Auditors, as the supervisory authority, should be the opposition, and this is the principle of the position of our political power. Because, in fact, the opposition has to control the power, the income, and the government budget. So once again, let me stress: The All-Ukrainian Freedom Union will support it. And I fully agree with Ruslan Knazevitch here today that it is very important to adopt the changes to the Constitution right here in Parliament so that the different worlds do not propose in a referendum to adopt changes to the Constitution or to adopt the Constitution itself, by encouraging the Ukrainians to be surrogates who will last forever for President Yanukovich in his office. And there's more. Mr. Head, I'm asking you to announce a list of missing deputies who are not present today at a session that has not been reported there on the registration tables. Thank you. Glory to Ukraine!
ParlaMint-UA_2013-04-16-m0.u42	The Vitaly Klitschka Faction, Agaphonova.
ParlaMint-UA_2013-04-16-m0.u43	Dear colleagues, the UDA faction does not support the inclusion in the agenda of the daily bill to amend article 98 of the Constitution of Ukraine for the following reasons. It should be said that this bill foresees a significant expansion of the powers of the Court of Auditors, which is now to monitor the coming of the State budget. What does that mean in practice? In practice, this means that before the Court of Auditors could control only state enterprises, institutions in the use of funds. Now the Court of Auditors can pay attention to its controlling actions, audits, and checks on private businesses, since it is mainly the cost of private enterprises that forms the revenue of the State budget. That is, these changes in the Constitution will allow us to adopt a law by which these controlling powers will be increased, and we, apart from one body, the Ministry of Income and Assembly, will form an additional body that will also exercise this control. In addition, I want to point out that such powers lead to imbalances in the independence of the legislative and executive authorities, because we have this autonomy as the foundation of the constitutional system, which is provided for in article 6 of the Constitution of Ukraine. Controlling execution. Controlling the flow of funds to the State budget will result in duplication of the authority of some bodies that are already involved: both the State Treasury, and the Ministry of Finance, and the National Bank, and government administrations. At the same time, however, it should be noted that the Budget Code states that only the executive authorities have control over the budgetary process. In their explanatory note and statements, they also referred to the implementation of the Lima Declaration. I would like to point out that, according to the Lima Declaration, yes, the creation of an independent financial control body is envisaged, but the Court of Auditors is not such an independent body of financial control, since, in accordance with the requirements of the Lima Convention (art. 8), the grounds for guaranteeing independence should be governed by the Constitution. That is, the reason for the appointment and withdrawal of the members of the Court of Auditors would have been to take place and would have been established in the Constitution. Such changes are not contained in the bill. In view of this, it can be said that the Court of Auditors will not act as an independent financial control body. And in view of that, the impact faction is being held back for inclusion in the agenda of this bill. Thank you for your attention.
ParlaMint-UA_2013-04-16-m0.u44	Party of regions. Anna Mikolayevna Herman.
ParlaMint-UA_2013-04-16-m0.u45	Please pass the word to Valery Pisarenko, the National MP.
ParlaMint-UA_2013-04-16-m0.u46	Please, Valery Pisarenko.
ParlaMint-UA_2013-04-16-m0.u47	Dear colleagues! Indeed, it is a pleasure to see such a constructive work today. And you know, the fact that we started our work right out of constitutional law gives this body a chance to work and show what we really do answer to our constituents, to those people who gave us the authority to work, and to work, including by controlling what's going on in the state. You know, I was very pleased to hear the speech, rejecting political motives, and the representative of Fatherland, and even the representative of the Freedom Party, who, in a legal sense, said very clever things. Because for four years, I want to remind you, we lived under the Constitution, where these powers of the Court of Auditors worked, and the country existed, and everything was normal. And now we're talking to you about the supervisory functions of the Supreme Council, where we work with you. And when the impact faction that I'm referring to right now is that we're not going to vote for this law, considering that under this law another law may be passed, which may contain an article that we don't like. Yes, dear friends, we're talking to you right now: I'm not going to work, because maybe after the trouble there's going to be rain, and I'm going to wet my legs, maybe then maybe I'll get sick. Let's get to it logically. We are talking to you about minor changes to the Constitution that will allow us to regulate the control functions of Parliament. I thank all those colleagues who have approached this issue in terms of legal, logical, meaningful approach. Because today you will be the one who will control what is happening in the state. If today we're talking about corruption, budget problems, other issues, but we're going to the rostrum and we're saying, "We're not going to vote for Parliament to be able to control budget coming." What, then, is the purpose of our work? So today, I hope that Parliament will send this bill, and now only a technical function, will send this bill to the Constitutional Court to reach a conclusion, and then we will reject the political points and vote for the Ukrainian Parliament to actually have the necessary responsibilities to fulfil the commitments that we made to the voters when we went to the elections. Thank you.
ParlaMint-UA_2013-04-16-m0.u48	Thank you. I'm asking the National Deputies to sign up for this speech, to discuss this issue. Please, National Deputy Benjuk, Freedom Union. Please.
ParlaMint-UA_2013-04-16-m0.u49	The All-Ukrainian Freedom Union, please pass the word to Switzerland.
ParlaMint-UA_2013-04-16-m0.u50	Please, National Deputy of Schweik. Turn on the Microphone for the Schwaiki People's Deputies.
ParlaMint-UA_2013-04-16-m0.u51	Igor Schwaika, deputy faction of the All-Ukrainian Freedom Union. A party of regions -- let's write down the falstart. In fact, I would like to remind you once again of the statements made by our colleague from the MP's faction, "Batakščina," Ruslan Knyazevitch. Only Parliament can today, and not any other created body, adopt bills to amend the Constitution. With regard to the responsibilities of the Court of Auditors. I would also like to remind you that the bill today, adopted by the faction of the All-Ukrainian Union of Freedom, we will be constructively approachable and supportive, even if, out of 100 possible percentages, this bill brings 3.5, 10, any other positive position. Regarding the bill on the Rahunkov Palace. In fact, it does not take into account the situation of the Lima Convention, which, in fact, today's draft law, particularly the Lima Convention, states that a higher body of State finance control should be empowered to closely control public procurement and procurement of services for public funds, this is article 21, the economic activity of commercial and industrial enterprises with State participation, article 23. The activity of the organizations receiving subsidies is article 24. And another question that I would like to raise today. The Court of Auditors should be empowered to respond primarily to parliamentary responses. It's not just a finding that there's been a breach. This calls for changes to be made to the Accountable House Act. In addition, during the formation of the committees of the Seventh Council, we stressed that the monitoring committees, such as the Committee on Budget Affairs and the Court of Auditors, and this was anchored in the President's 2012 letter, should be appointed by the quota of the opposition political forces. At this time, I would urge our colleagues, when preparing for the first review of changes to the law and the formation of the governing bodies of the Court of Auditors, to make it clear that, in order for an organ such as the Court of Auditors to function normally, we will insist that the governing bodies be appointed by the quota of the opposition political forces. Because this is primarily a government financial control function. And this will be a normal way of working constructively for the opposition political forces both inside and outside Parliament. Glory to Ukraine!
ParlaMint-UA_2013-04-16-m0.u52	Party of regions, National Deputy Oliynik.
ParlaMint-UA_2013-04-16-m0.u53	Dear colleagues! I guess we need to get our passions together a little bit, get away from this political crack and finally look at the issue strictly legal. The President of Ukraine proposes that article 98 of the Constitution of Ukraine, which, on behalf of the Supreme Council, provides control over the use of the State budget, be supplemented by an important standard. It's not just spending control. But control over the income part of the budget. Well, that's probably good. Because this does not narrow down the rights of the Court of Auditors and the Supreme Council directly. And it expands the rights. And all you have to do is say hello. Because today, of course, citizens would like to know, through the report of the Court of Auditors, how things work for us not only in the use of the budget but also in the filling of the budget. Where we have gaps, where we have a shadow, how we in the Supreme Council today adopt important laws to ensure the only implementation of the Budget Filling Act. When opponents talk about what is going on in the House itself, and the authority, and maybe you need to reinforce the opposition element there in order to have more objective control, these things are inextricable. Why? Because this is a right given to the Court of Auditors, and there needs to be a separate consideration of the issue of increased control. And I think we should support this initiative of the President. She is deeply convinced that she will pass through the Constitutional Court and will have positive conclusions. Convinced that more than 300 votes will be cast in the session room. And finally, we're going to start with smart, thoughtful, pragmatic changes to the Constitution in order to strengthen the role of both the Supreme Council and society in constitutional processes. I am convinced that the President's initiative, in accordance with the Decree that created the Constitutional Assembly, and this Constitutional Assembly has also addressed today's issue, will only create speculation about what they want and try to bring something bad into the Constitution. The president demonstrated that he wanted constitutional changes to be useful to Ukrainian society. Let's give him a hand with that.
ParlaMint-UA_2013-04-16-m0.u54	The Fatherland faction, the People's Deputy of Leapina.
ParlaMint-UA_2013-04-16-m0.u55	Please pass the word to Arsenius Yatsenyuk.
ParlaMint-UA_2013-04-16-m0.u56	Please hand over Arsenia Yatsenyuk. Turn on the microphone.
ParlaMint-UA_2013-04-16-m0.u57	Voting for today’s decision means only one thing that no referendums will be able to change the Constitution of Ukraine. Changes to the Constitution should be made exclusively in the Supreme Council of Ukraine and only by the Ukrainian Parliament. That's the first one. The other one. These changes to the Constitution provide for additional powers for the Supreme Council of Ukraine, this is not a mandate for the government, this is not an authorization for the President, this is an authorization for the Ukrainian Parliament, which elected the people of Ukraine. And that's why we have to vote for that decision. Third. The Chamber of Accounts of Ukraine is not just a monitoring body, it is the body that must first allow the Ukrainian Parliamentary Opposition to control the expenditure of the State budget of Ukraine and the income of the State budget of Ukraine. So the third decision, why we're going to vote for this, is the control body over the people's costs. And it is the Ukrainian Parliament that must perform this function. Fourth, Mr. Head, concerning the Court of Auditors. I think it would be right if you, as Head of the Supreme Council of Ukraine, would call on the Head of the Auditors and factions to discuss with you what is going on in the Auditors' Auditors' Auditors' Chamber and under-representatives. The year of the Court of Auditors is unconstitutional. We need to make decisions in Parliament's walls about who works in the House of Accounts, why the year is not appointed. And give them, Mr. Head, the same clear commission that they should control. And that's why, for these four reasons: because only Parliament is making changes to the Constitution, because only the Supreme Council is given authority in relation to the Court of Auditors, because Parliament has to put order in the State budget and because the Court of Auditors has to be an effective means of controlling the state budget from the opposition -- the faction of "Fatherhood" votes in favour of submitting the bill to the Constitutional Court. Here I would like to stress separately that this is not a vote for changes to the Constitution, but a motion to the Constitutional Court. So we're going to vote yes.
ParlaMint-UA_2013-04-16-m0.u58	Thank you. The last speaker, the Fatherland faction, the Nemira. Please.
ParlaMint-UA_2013-04-16-m0.u59	Please pass the word to Mikola Tomenko.
ParlaMint-UA_2013-04-16-m0.u60	Please, Mikola Tomenko, turn on the rostrum.
ParlaMint-UA_2013-04-16-m0.u61	Dear colleagues! I would like to draw attention to this bill from the perspective and procedure of amending the Constitution. I was concerned by the report's reply when it came to the fact that a self-evident institution in the world on issues of the Constitution of Ukraine, the Constitutional Assembly, agreed to consider all of this. I think it's an advisory body that nobody knows about, and it turns out it's the most important institution in the country. And I would like to draw your attention to the fact that today, my friends, a large group of scientists in the Constitutional Assembly have pointed out that the Constitutional Assembly is being used through an effort, through a referendum that is completely unconstitutional under the law, to take the right in Parliament and the procedure that is appropriate today -- to make changes to the Constitution. So today's discussion is very important for us to say that there is no desire in Parliament to violate the Constitution and to enforce the unconstitutional referendum law. Second position. When we talk about the House of Accounts and its place, we have to say that Parliament in general has to return its powers to the part of budget formation and control. We have to make changes to the Budget Code and other legislative acts so that there is no shame that MPs have the theoretical ability to influence the budget before the first reading, and then everything is resolved without them. If we are expanding the mandate of the Court of Auditors, then we should return Parliament's mandate to the budget. Because it's going to be so stupid, and I'm sorry, as recently as 1 billion 700 million have been divided and the city of Yenakiyo is 100 million, and two thirds of Western and Central Ukraine are 8-10 million, 10 times. There one classic said that Ukraine would be divided into classes, so divided into classes, because there is the first class of the Jenakiyevo Donetsk Region and the second class, they gave 64 million, and the Central and Western Ukraine the third class, they gave 10 million in all areas. The budget should therefore be formed by the Supreme Council of Ukraine, not by two Minfin officials. Third position. It's not just the authorization of the Court of Auditors, the principle of its status, the place. I've been working with the House of Accounts for years. Can you tell me, on the basis of the House of Auditors' appeal, that one criminal case has been brought to an end? The Chamber of Auditors gave me information that only on the textbooks did our famous ministry led by Dmitr Tobacco dissipate 50 million dollars: when it was to be printed in Ukrainian, they printed it in Russian and it was rolled in warehouses. I have a question: is a criminal case open, people sitting in jail? So when we talk about the House of Accounts, we need to understand that the message of the Court of Auditors is a criminal matter and it is an adequate responsibility. And of course, I support the thesis that this is an institution that we wrote about in the Position Act and by constitutional majority we voted that is formed by the public and the opposition. In that case, we will support it.
ParlaMint-UA_2013-04-16-m0.u62	Thank you. Showtime's up. Is there a reporter for the closing word? Oh, no? Turn on the microphone.
ParlaMint-UA_2013-04-16-m0.u63	Ladies and gentlemen, I would like to ask you to support the bill being sent to the Constitutional Court of Ukraine. When it comes to overcoming all the flaws that have occurred in your mouth, it is for this. institutional weaknesses in activities, in the mandates of the Court of Auditors, require changes to the Constitution of Ukraine. That's the first one. The other one. Ladies and gentlemen, I understand that the legislative process is always a political process, but I would like to point out that, in my report to you, I mentioned, not primarily, but other factors. So I would ask you not to speculate on the question of the Constitutional Assembly. In the Order of the President of Ukraine, the Constitutional Assembly Regulations clearly set out the position: the members of the Constitutional Assembly are at the position of amending the Constitution of Ukraine in the order provided for in Chapter 13 of the Constitution of Ukraine. Thank you.
ParlaMint-UA_2013-04-16-m0.u64	Pisarenko doesn't have a head of committee. words. Let's move on, Your Honor, to making a decision. According to the second part of article 146 (please prepare for the vote) In the light of the Committee's conclusion, I am voting on the draft decree (Registration No. 2049/P) on the inclusion in the agenda of the day-to-day session of the Supreme Council of Ukraine of the seventh draft amendment to article 98 of the Constitution of Ukraine and its referral to the Constitutional Court of Ukraine for adoption as a basis and as a whole. People's deputies, please vote. [[11:30:13]] For 351 I'll take the order. Factions: The Party of Regions is 182, Fatherland is 80, Vitala Klitschka is zero, Freedom is 35, the Company is 30 and non-fractional is 24. Ladies and gentlemen, let us now consider the inclusion of other issues in the agenda of the day. A proposal is made for the inclusion in the agenda of the draft Act (registration number 2698) to amend certain Ukrainian legislative acts to remove restrictions on the conduct of economic activity. The draft law on this issue is given to you. Is there a need to discuss this? None. I ask then to vote in favour of a reduced procedure to address this issue. Please vote. [[11:31:47]] For 264 On the grounds of the vote, please, please, Rosenko.
ParlaMint-UA_2013-04-16-m0.u65	Rosenko, Vitaly Call's Faction. First question. Vladimir Vasilovich, you now have good reason to announce written registrations that are not available in the room. Please do this as you did before. And the second question. And once again, this is a question, and our faction is ready to address this issue, exclusively as inclusion in the agenda of the day session, without considering these issues in fact. Because two thirds of these issues do not even have a committee decision. So once again, we're going to be looking at this issue exclusively in the context of how to get into the agenda, without really considering it.
ParlaMint-UA_2013-04-16-m0.u66	Are all national MPs in agreement? Agreed? I am voting for the inclusion in the agenda of the day session of the draft Act (Registration No. 2698) amending certain legislative acts of Ukraine to remove restrictions on the conduct of economic activity. People's deputies, please vote. [[11:33:38]] For 323 Questions in the agenda of the day session are included. "To" is 323. Let's move on. A proposal is made for the inclusion in the agenda of the day session of a draft Act amending certain laws of Ukraine concerning the appointment and indexation of pensions. Registration number. [[B in m in s a l in]] What's that? 2792. A proposal is made to include in the agenda of the day session of the Project Ordinance (Registration No. 2792) on the introduction of a moratorium on the closure of educational institutions of the non-school system, including educational institutions in the field of culture, state and municipal property. What are some suggestions? Please, Yavorowski.
ParlaMint-UA_2013-04-16-m0.u67	Vladimir Yavorowski, Kyiv, Trinity, Fatherland. Dear colleagues! In the past week, Ukrainian culture has suffered two devastating blows. One of them is the government's proposal, which it seems to be being baptized from, but it's actually about putting all the schools (music schools, cultural institutions that are in the country) on a farm basis. You can imagine what a blow is taking to this day, and to this day, when children, the talented children of today, those who barely make ends meet will have to leave these educational institutions. I don't think Ukrainian culture has ever known such a painful blow. The same is true of others. A huge sum has been allocated for the book - making work. I understand that this money will go to publishing, it's not really publishing, it's printing "New World" to pay off even higher fees to the most outstanding author today, who receives the highest fees in Ukraine alone, and in the world you know, to the writer, you know what appears to be huge circulation, but no book in the library, no. His name is Viktor Fedorovich Jakukovich.
ParlaMint-UA_2013-04-16-m0.u68	Thank you. Is there a need to discuss this? Is it? None. I am voting on the draft Decree (No. 2792) on the introduction of a moratorium on the closure of non-school education institutions, including educational institutions in the fields of culture, state and municipal ownership. People's deputies, please vote. [[11:37:58]] For 224 The decision is not taken. Please register on the grounds of the vote. Rosenko, national MP, please.
ParlaMint-UA_2013-04-16-m0.u69	Paul Rosenko, Vital Caller Faction. Volodymyr Vasilovich, you've made a little mistake in announcing this matter. We had to ask the question of inclusion in the agenda, because that's what I understood, part of the faction of the regions, because they thought the decision was in general voting. So I suggest you go back to the vote and make it clear that this is about getting into the agenda today. In fact, this determination will be discussed when the MP factions and groups, and the Conciliation Council will put it on a certain day of order. Therefore, I propose that I return to the vote and vote on this ruling. It is meant to include this decree in the agenda of the day session.
ParlaMint-UA_2013-04-16-m0.u70	Freedom Union, Mohnik, please.
ParlaMint-UA_2013-04-16-m0.u71	Please pass the word to Irina Pharion.
ParlaMint-UA_2013-04-16-m0.u72	Please give me your word.
ParlaMint-UA_2013-04-16-m0.u73	Dear Mr. Head! We're very much asking you to go back to this question, since this is a fundamental question about the functioning of preschool education. [[B in m in s a l in]] I want us to understand, after all, the meaning of the terms that the authorities are offering us. Optimized means destruction of schools of aesthetic education. I hope that all factions, regardless of their political beliefs, want their children and grandchildren to be able to receive preschool education. And so that this preschool education is not on the shoulders of parents but, above all, on the shoulders of the state. It is vital that central authorities do not put this problem on local budgets! Therefore, I ask you once again to return to this question and to vote on it, testifying to our national stand. Thank you.
ParlaMint-UA_2013-04-16-m0.u74	I beg you, the Fatherland faction, Papuya. Please.
ParlaMint-UA_2013-04-16-m0.u75	Please give the floor to the head of the Committee of Education and Science of Lilia Grinevich, Lilia Grinevich.
ParlaMint-UA_2013-04-16-m0.u76	Dear National Deputies! I would like to draw the attention of now the deputies of the predominant factions who did not vote in favour of the inclusion of this decree. I want to remind you that the President's new social initiatives are called "Children are the future of Ukraine." And in these social initiatives, the President promises to increase the coverage of children by out-of-school education from 40 percent that we have today to 70 percent. Today, letters from the Ministry of Finance, which have been sent to the Ministry of Culture, Education, and Regional Government Administrations, have stimulated the closure of out - of - school education institutions. And in culture, music schools and art schools. Dear colleagues, let us not ruin the system of aesthetic education that is still alive today. That's it.
ParlaMint-UA_2013-04-16-m0.u77	Party of regions, Hanna Herman.
ParlaMint-UA_2013-04-16-m0.u78	Ladies and gentlemen, the Party of the Regions will support this initiative, but we need to put order in place here and not take authority from local councils. Because we know that it is the local councils that have many schools and art schools and other institutions for artistic education. But not only today is the problem of Ukrainian culture. I propose to create an inquiry committee in Parliament into the exploration of the property of the Ukrainian Writers' Association, which took place over the past years.
ParlaMint-UA_2013-04-16-m0.u79	Communist Party of Ukraine, faction, Simonenko.
ParlaMint-UA_2013-04-16-m0.u80	Simonenko, the Communist faction. Dear colleagues, I would like to draw your attention to what we are discussing. [[B in m in s a l in]] We are discussing the closure of kindergartens and schools in Ukraine in 20 years, the access of cultural institutions, the country club and the library to the boards. All of these are the results of a 20-year policy in Ukraine, whose goal and objectives are to make a small group of people rich and poor the whole population of Ukraine. And the poor people of Ukraine take what must be accessible to them. Second. The problem of this solution will not be solved because we need to decide that cultural and educational institutions for our children should be accessible. I mean, they have to be on minimum pay. That is why we, the Communists, today and we warn that large capital has refused to implement the social support programme of our people, and the faction of the Company, which was involved in what we were building, has been built by the communists, and has been built to make Ukraine develop. The present power.
ParlaMint-UA_2013-04-16-m0.u81	Please, non-fractional national MP Lazko, one minute and we'll be clear.
ParlaMint-UA_2013-04-16-m0.u82	Dear fellow members of the national parliament, I appeal to those who did not vote in favour of the moratorium. I think you realize clearly that the possibility of shutting down preschools, extraschools, you're conspiring our children to do it instead of going to music schools, sports schools to go to the driveways, drug addicts, drinking, prostitution, and so on and so forth. You bear the responsibility of the government and the communists who voted in favour of this government for what is being done to the Ukrainians today and to the growing generation. And that's why I'm addressing, Vladimir Vasilovich, let's go back to this issue and make a decision to include the question of the moratorium into the agenda of the day session. We have no right to deprive Ukrainian children of the opportunity to receive extracurricular education. It's a crime in front of our little Ukrainians.
ParlaMint-UA_2013-04-16-m0.u83	Ladies and gentlemen, there was one suggestion to return to the vote on the Order (No. 2792) to the debate. People's deputies, please vote. [[11:45:40.]] For 367 Decision taken. I am voting on the draft Decree (No.2792) on the inclusion in the agenda of the daily session of the Ordinance on the introduction of a moratorium on the closure of educational institutions of the non-school system, including educational institutions in the series of national and municipal forms of property. People's deputies, please vote. [[11:46:35]] For 377 I'll take the order. Ladies and gentlemen, a proposal is made for the inclusion in the agenda of the draft Law (Registration No. 1117) to amend certain laws of Ukraine regarding the appointment and indexation of pensions. Shall we discuss it? No, it's not. I am voting for the inclusion in the agenda of the draft Act (registration 1117) on amendments to certain Ukrainian laws on the appointment and indexation of pensions. People's deputies, please vote. [[11:48:11]] For 375 Decision taken. A proposal is made for the inclusion in the agenda of the draft Law (registration number 2649) on amendments to the Law on Humanitarian Aid (for recognition of cargo by silent consent). Discussing Is Needful? None. I am voting for the inclusion in the agenda of the draft Law (registration number 2649) on amendments to the Law on Humanitarian Aid (for recognition of humanitarian aid by silent consent). People's deputies, please vote. [[11:49:41]] For 203 The decision is not taken. Factions: Region Party 22, Fatherland 88, Vitalia Klicka Hit 36, Freedom 35, Ukraine Company 4, non-factional 18. On the basis of the vote, please. Sign up for reasons of vote? Please, the Pavlovsky People's Deputy.
ParlaMint-UA_2013-04-16-m0.u84	Andrey Pavlovsky, faction of the political-incarcerated Yulia Timoshenko "The Fatherland." Please give the floor to the People's Deputy Zubko.
ParlaMint-UA_2013-04-16-m0.u85	Pass it on, please.
ParlaMint-UA_2013-04-16-m0.u86	Deputies! Dear Chairman! I would very much like us to return to the agenda of this bill. Because, if you know, practically from September of the month, there are humanitarian cargoes today that aren't clean enough, and some shipments have gone to customs. Why? Because today the Ministry of Social Policy does not solve the issue of those who are on it, they do not refuse to blur out or agree. And today, in fact, there has been a collapse in the clearing of the humanitarian burdens that people all over Ukraine are waiting for today. So the question here is that today is practically state. The central government is a statistical body. Practically, all decisions are made at the local level by commissions created by humanitarian aid. And this bill.
ParlaMint-UA_2013-04-16-m0.u87	Please, the Freedom Union, the Martinks.
ParlaMint-UA_2013-04-16-m0.u88	Please pass the word to Ruslan Zelik.
ParlaMint-UA_2013-04-16-m0.u89	Pass it on, please.
ParlaMint-UA_2013-04-16-m0.u90	Dear colleagues! Ruslan Zelik, the All-Ukrainian Freedom Union. I understand why the Communists came out today to address this issue. Because they don't give them customs, they trade. Ladies and gentlemen, today more than 500 humanitarian cargoes stand at the border and are not scattered. It's a bed for the sick, it's a wall for the diabetic. And the Ministry of Social Policy, which is supposed to do this, has been unable to navigate and create such a commission for three and a half months. So I think we should go back to the bill, especially since the committee has its own alternative bill, which was registered on 22.03. And I think we should go back to this bill. Thank you.
ParlaMint-UA_2013-04-16-m0.u91	Please, Party of Regions, National Deputy Kuzmuk.
ParlaMint-UA_2013-04-16-m0.u92	I ask you to pass the word to Alexander Mikolayovich Belovol.
ParlaMint-UA_2013-04-16-m0.u93	Pass it on, please.
ParlaMint-UA_2013-04-16-m0.u94	Thank you. Dear Vladimir Vasilovich, I would like to pay attention to our services. The relevant two laws that we last voted on didn't work on my card. That's the second time. So I'd like to take another look at that. Thank you.
ParlaMint-UA_2013-04-16-m0.u95	The Vitalia Klitschka faction, the people's deputy, Rosenko.
ParlaMint-UA_2013-04-16-m0.u96	Paul Rosenco, Vitaly Caller's Faction. Well, we have a paradoxical picture in the state: the Minister of Social Policy, instead of deciding on his powers, walks, runs on airs and tells us what to do with the Supreme Council of Ukraine. It's because of her "run" on the air that we have for four months, that really stands for humanitarian aid on the borders of Ukraine. The problem is, as the Supreme Council of Ukraine, we should not hide our heads in the sand from this problem. But the prescribed bill, well, in our view, is not, let's say, balanced and opening the hatches, indeed, that the humanitarian aid goes through goods that don't belong to humanitarian aid. But we're now suggesting that we put this issue in the agenda and discuss humanitarian aid here in the hall. Because we're being approached by a lot of people about what.
ParlaMint-UA_2013-04-16-m0.u97	Ladies and gentlemen. Ladies and gentlemen, after a recess, we will return to this matter. A break of up to 12 hours is announced for 30 minutes.
ParlaMint-UA_2013-04-16-m0.u98	I ask that all deputies return to the session room. I'd like to ask you again, because I'm going to put it to the vote. Deputies! Please take your seats. We're continuing the session. When considering the question for a break, proposals were made to return to the draft Law (registration number 2649) on the amendment of the Law on Humanitarian Aid (for recognition of cargo by silent consent). I ask you to prepare for the vote. I am voting for the return to Law 2649. Please vote. [[12:35:59]] For-151 Against the four. It's held up to 30. No 173 votes. The decision is not taken. The factions, please. Region Party 5, Parentage Party 71, Vitalia Klicka Strike 29, Freedom 30, Company 6, non-fractional 10. Let's move on. A proposal is made for the inclusion in the agenda of the draft Law (Registration No. 2594) on amendments to certain Ukrainian legislative acts to improve the application of financial notes. How will we view it? Please sign up for factions. He's pulling his hands. Please sign up. People's deputy Zelik.
ParlaMint-UA_2013-04-16-m0.u99	The All - Ukrainian Freedom Union, Ruslan Zelik Please give the floor to the member of the Blavojki Mikhail.
ParlaMint-UA_2013-04-16-m0.u100	Pass it on, please.
ParlaMint-UA_2013-04-16-m0.u101	Blahuwaki Mikhailo, the All-Ukrainian Freedom Union. Dear Head, respectable society, a more fearsome law, which today has come up with deputies than most, can simply put the Ukrainian state on its knees. Today the banking system is going to fall completely, today the banking stability is going to be disrupted, today the stock market is completely broken, today the financial structure and financial stability are completely destroyed. More criminal law that can be proposed today for the introduction into the state of chaos, and so-called today by the majority who support this law, this law will work today only for the oligarchs who will be able to work for the papers that were once in the 1990s, and they will be robbed of the remnants of today's strategic property by those oligarchs and criminals.
ParlaMint-UA_2013-04-16-m0.u102	Party of regions, Chechetov.
ParlaMint-UA_2013-04-16-m0.u103	Dear Vladimir Vasiljevic, distinguished members of the people, today is significant in that we have indeed begun to consider, professionally, specific bills in a consolidated manner. [[B in m in s a l in]] And I think that the 300 votes on the board, when the majority and the minority both voted, all political forces -- well, it was nice to see our voters. This once again emphasized that we have become above our ambitions of political, party and state interest. People want to see a working parliament and it is today. That's why I have a proposition: don't beat yourself up. We have gained a good pace, a professional, a discussion, to move further in the direction of politics, and to hold discussions professionally, and to determine the importance of a bill. Thank you.
ParlaMint-UA_2013-04-16-m0.u104	The Fatherland faction, Pashinsky.
ParlaMint-UA_2013-04-16-m0.u105	Please pass the word to Stepan Kubi.
ParlaMint-UA_2013-04-16-m0.u106	Pass it on, please.
ParlaMint-UA_2013-04-16-m0.u107	Ladies and gentlemen, Fatherland will not support this bill. Because it's useless to give a commercial bank's accounting center the status of a commercial bank. At the same time, it is impossible to provide an expanded range of banking services. This carries additional risks. And these risks will increase financial risks in general, which will pose a risk of insolvency today, primarily leading to problems in the stock market. The other one. The conversion of the accounting centre and the specialized financial settlement institution into an established one, the application of the principle of the supply of securities against payment goes to the status of the ordinary bank, and that is contrary. And the third one, the main one. It is easier to change the Banking and Banking Act at one point.
ParlaMint-UA_2013-04-16-m0.u108	It's the Vitalia Cliche faction, Rosenko.
ParlaMint-UA_2013-04-16-m0.u109	Please pass the word to Victor Pinzenic.
ParlaMint-UA_2013-04-16-m0.u110	Turn on Victor Pinzenik's microphone.
ParlaMint-UA_2013-04-16-m0.u111	Dear Volodymyr Vasilovich, dear colleagues! The Parliament of the past assembly has done a very dangerous thing by allowing the release of treasury and bank bills. Realizing that it is a tool for fulfilling commitments, liabilities to the budget, and to banks. Banks and budgets are institutions that are the product of money. They can't afford to work with paper. The budget can only work with money. Banks have to work with money. So I propose, please colleagues, that we do not decide to include in the agenda all three bills relating to this extremely dangerous instrument.
ParlaMint-UA_2013-04-16-m0.u112	Did everyone say that? I am voting for the inclusion in the agenda of the draft Law (Registration No. 2594) on amendments to some Ukrainian legislative acts on improving the financial notes mechanism. People's deputies, please vote. [[12:42:43]] For-163 Against 131. It's been held up to four. We didn't vote 80. The decision is not taken. The factions. Region Party - 134, Fatherland - 2, Vitalia Klitschka - 0, Freedom - 0, the company - 20, non-fractional - 7. A proposal is made for the inclusion in the agenda of the draft Law (Registration No. 2595) on amendments to the Ukraine Act on the State Budget for Ukraine for 2013 (to improve the financial notes mechanism). Shall we discuss it? Aren't we going to discuss this? We won't. I'll bet you a vote. [[B in m in s a l in]] I'd like the deputies to sign up. Freedom Union, Cherniaków. One minute, please.
ParlaMint-UA_2013-04-16-m0.u113	May I have your word, My Lord.
ParlaMint-UA_2013-04-16-m0.u114	Quiet, turn it on.
ParlaMint-UA_2013-04-16-m0.u115	Alexander Mirny, the All-Ukrainian Freedom Union. Our faction emphasizes that the adoption of all three bills is impossible because it is a way to go. We should not let the mechanism of fraud gears into the market. That's not right. And we support Pinzenik's statement that banks and budgets have to deal with money, not unsecured paper, because that started the crisis in 2008 in America. We're not America, but we need much less to break the financial system. Thank you.
ParlaMint-UA_2013-04-16-m0.u116	Party of regions, Chechetov. To give the word to Jaroslav Sukh.
ParlaMint-UA_2013-04-16-m0.u117	Thank you. Dear colleagues! Dear Vladimir Vasilovich! We're looking at a simple and simple question right now, and we don't have to make a storm here in a glass of water -- we're putting it in the order of the day. You can see that there are no votes in the room for these three bills and there will be no votes. Why are we taking time? Colleagues, look at the agenda, how many important bills society requires of us. We have to put it in the agenda and look at it. I suggest that without discussion we include or not include, then we can save our time. Anyone who wants to talk very much please, let's look at this issue essentially, then we'll vote. Dude, don't yell at me because I saw you out there.
ParlaMint-UA_2013-04-16-m0.u118	Please, Fatherland faction, Kirilenko.
ParlaMint-UA_2013-04-16-m0.u119	Please pass the word to Sergio Teryohin.
ParlaMint-UA_2013-04-16-m0.u120	Sergei Teryohin, please.
ParlaMint-UA_2013-04-16-m0.u121	Thank you, Ivan Grigorovich. Well, dear fellows, it's a totally bandit's law. That's why I'm explaining. Bank financial notes are introduced, or weightless so - called bills. Do you remember the Chechnya tickets? That's about the same kind of thing. Second, treasury financial notes are introduced. So you'll never get a VAT in your life. You'll be given decades, or I don't know how empty the paper will be, and then the company of the other sons there will be buying discounts into the mills and putting them into the budget. That's where this equipment is going to work. More than that, it is forbidden to sell a bill on the stock market as opposed to a treasury obligation. So imagine what discounting is going to be like here! This is the law of bandits, this is the deputy who filed it, it's clear who it is. Thank you.
ParlaMint-UA_2013-04-16-m0.u122	Sergey Teryochin: There are no bandits among the MPs, and this is the MP's law. [[B in m in s a l in]] Please! Vitalia Calla, Matios, please.
ParlaMint-UA_2013-04-16-m0.u123	Please pass the word to Pinzenic.
ParlaMint-UA_2013-04-16-m0.u124	Pass it on, please.
ParlaMint-UA_2013-04-16-m0.u125	Dear Vladimir Vasilovich, distinguished national deputies! This law provides for the financing of government expenditure or the payment of liabilities, not in money, but in bills. The expenditure list will be determined by Kabmin. Ask your questions: Why, in such a case, should the budget be submitted to Parliament at all, why should we approve the budget deficit if outside the budget, the government is able to fund the expenditure by promissory notes? For the government to suffer, to borrow money if there is a very simple way to pay the expenses: not to pay the debts. Or, excuse me, pay for so-called bills. I propose and ask my colleagues to support: both this and the next bill have no right to exist and not to include it in the agenda.
ParlaMint-UA_2013-04-16-m0.u126	I am betting on the vote to include in the agenda of the draft Law (Registration No. 2595) amending the Ukrainian State Budget Act 2013 (to improve the financial notes mechanism). People's deputies, please vote. [[12:49:48]] For-179 Against the 143. It's been held down to seven. It wasn't a 64 vote. Only 393. Factions: Regional Party - 143, Fatherland - 3, Vitalia Klicka - 0, Freedom - 0, The Company - 24, non-fractional - 9. The decision is not taken. Yes, a proposal is made for the inclusion in the agenda of the draft Law (Registration No. 2596) on amendments to the Ukrainian Code of Taxation for Improving the Mechanism for the Use of Financial Bills. Everyone was discussing the matter. May I put it to a vote? I am voting for the inclusion in the agenda of the daily session of the draft Law (Registration No. 2596) amending the Code of Taxation of Ukraine (to improve the financial notes mechanism). People's deputies, please vote. [[12:51:19]] For-182 Against-145. It's held up to six. There was no vote of 62. The decision is not taken. Factions: Region Party – 147, Fatherland – one, Vitalia Klicka – one, Freedom – zero, Company 24, Postfaction – 9. Ladies and gentlemen, a proposal is made for the inclusion in the agenda of the draft Law (Registration No. 2797) on amendments to the Ukrainian Code of Taxation in connection with the creation of income and assembly bodies. Shall we discuss it? There are desirable ones. Please sign up. In a minute. Please, Chechetov, Party of Regions.
ParlaMint-UA_2013-04-16-m0.u127	Ladies and gentlemen, the bill proposes to establish by 1 January 2014 bodies that perform treasury services on the basis of the findings of the relevant authorities of the State Tax Service, specifying the amount of tax added to the budget. Once again, I turn to the sessional room: let's move away from politics, and we will professionally evaluate the bill. The bill goes beyond policy, just as it responds to today's economic situation in the country and will help solve many serious economic and financial problems. Please vote in favour of including it in the agenda. Thank you.
ParlaMint-UA_2013-04-16-m0.u128	Freedom Union, national deputy of Schweik. Please.
ParlaMint-UA_2013-04-16-m0.u129	Igor Schwaika, deputy faction of the All-Ukrainian Freedom Union. Mr. Head and gentlemen of the majority, I would like to draw particular attention to the fact that, in accordance with article 24 of the Ukrainian Law on the Status of the People's Deputy, the Ukrainian National Deputy is obliged as a member of a committee of temporary special or temporary inquiry committee to be present at meetings of the Committee, a subcommittee of a temporary special or temporary commission of inquiry to which it is elected, and to participate in their work. In doing so, Mr. Head, I would like you personally and for the faction of the Party of the Regions, to Ephraim, who is now looking, not listening, to bring to the knowledge of Kolesnick, Lukyanov, Melnicka, Olijnik, Paraskiva, Špenov, as well as the so-called Communist of Matthew, that today at 2 p.m. the fifth election session of the TSC, the will of the Ukrainian people, at which they are not once elected. They didn't take part. This is the responsibility of the national MP.
ParlaMint-UA_2013-04-16-m0.u130	Members of parliament are requested to make an announcement to the public. Vitalia Calla, Rosenko, please.
ParlaMint-UA_2013-04-16-m0.u131	Paul Rosenco, Vitaly Caller's Faction. If there is no politics, such a body as the Ministry of Income and Congregations should not exist in a normal country at all. And the President of Ukraine severely violated the Constitution, the laws of Ukraine, when he approved the Order approving the Ministry of Revenue and Assembly. When he handed over to the Ministry a number of functions that are defined by valid legislation entirely by other bodies, such as the functions of the Pension Fund in the congregation and the control of the sole social contribution to the Ministry today. Although the Law of Ukraine contains a completely different formula for a single social contribution. On April 4th, you approved a budget for this ministry at the illegal assembly in Banking. This was also done in an illegal way. So hit won't support any initiatives to legitimize this ministry on.
ParlaMint-UA_2013-04-16-m0.u132	The Fatherland faction. Knazevitch, please.
ParlaMint-UA_2013-04-16-m0.u133	I ask you to pass the word to Teryochin.
ParlaMint-UA_2013-04-16-m0.u134	Turn on Teriochina's microphone.
ParlaMint-UA_2013-04-16-m0.u135	Thank you, Ruslan. Dear colleagues, this bill shows a profound picture. is evidence of deep disregard by Mr. President of the Constitution and the laws of Ukraine. Let me remind you. Some kind of decree creates a strange Ministry of Income and Assembly in spite of the current provisions of the Tax Code, the Customs Code, the State Tax Service Act, and so on. After two months, the position of the Ministry does not exist, two months later this position is adopted, which is also in conflict with two codes and two laws. Now the last number, de facto, is proposed to us to legitimize the President's illegal order. Marazm, I'm sorry, I was strong. One more. There really is no such ministry in any country. Then Minfin needs to be called the Department of Expenses and Loans and goodbyes.
ParlaMint-UA_2013-04-16-m0.u136	The discussion is over. I am voting for the inclusion in the agenda of the draft Law (Registration No. 2797) on amendments to the Ukrainian Tax Code in connection with the creation of income and assembly bodies. People's deputies, please vote. [[12:57:53]] For a hundred and Against the-144. It's been held by two. They didn't vote 55. The decision is not taken. The factions. "The Party of Regions" is 161, "The Fatherland" is 0, "The Hit of Vitalia Klicka" is 0, "Freedom" is 0, "The Company is 24, "the Non-Factional" is 9. A proposal is made for the inclusion in the agenda of the draft Law (Registration No. 2798) to amend the Customs Code of Ukraine in connection with the creation of income and congregation bodies. Shall we discuss it? No, it's not. I am voting for the inclusion in the agenda of the draft Law (Registration No. 2798) on amendments to the Customs Code of Ukraine in connection with the creation of income and assembly bodies. People's deputies, please vote. [[12:59:26]] For a hundred and Against the-147. Hold on one. It wasn't a 55 vote. The decision is not taken. The factions. Region Party – 161, "Paternity" – 0, Vitalia Klicka – 0, "Freedom" – 0, Company – 23, non-fractional – 10. A proposal is made for the inclusion in the agenda of the draft Law (Registration No. 2799), which amends certain legislative acts of Ukraine in connection with the creation of income and congregation bodies. Shall we discuss it? No, it's not. I am voting for the inclusion in the agenda of the draft Law (Registration No. 2799) on amendments to certain legislative acts of Ukraine in connection with the creation of income and assembly bodies. People's deputies, please vote. [[13:00:56]] For-195 Against the 150. Hold on one. There was no vote in 53. The decision is not taken. The factions. Region Party - 163, Fatherland - 0, Hit Vitalia Klicka - 0, Freedom - 0, Company - 24, non-fractional - 8. Dear National Deputies! Let's go to chapter one. The draft Act (registration 1103) amending the Criminal and Criminal Procedural Codes of Ukraine to improve the procedure for confiscation is being introduced. How will we view it? Short cut. I would like to vote on this issue on a reduced basis. Please vote. [[13:02:18]] For-183 Against 75, held – 8, did not vote – 132. Decision taken. On the basis of the vote, please, Alexander Sergiyovich Efraemov, will you?
ParlaMint-UA_2013-04-16-m0.u137	Dear Vladimir Vasiljevic, we agreed at the Conciliation Council that we will consider these bills on Thursday when the drafts on the same subject are considered. [[B in m in s a l in]] Today, these bills are to be considered inadvertently both in the short term and not in the short term. Therefore, there is a proposal to postpone their consideration to Thursday and Thursday in a package to consider all the bills, when the advisory committee considers other options, we will be able to take a decision. Thank you.
ParlaMint-UA_2013-04-16-m0.u138	From each faction, please. Arsenius Yatsenuk.
ParlaMint-UA_2013-04-16-m0.u139	Mr. Head, you remember that we agreed yesterday that we should do Europe's day at the Supreme Council of Ukraine. We passed the laws of 2802 and 2803. It's actually in exchange for these two bills that are now included in the agenda. You have a request, put the bill 2802 and 2803 to the vote now. We'll turn it on. The committee will then consider this bill on Wednesday, and we will adopt these bills on Thursday, if the committee decides, even in general. As we return to these two bills, we need to go through them, fail them, to remove them from the order of the day. And in their replacement on Thursday, new bills will be adopted, I would like to emphasise that we will be able to accept them as a whole. Put what I ask of you.
ParlaMint-UA_2013-04-16-m0.u140	So you got it, people's deputies? Please "Freedom", then "Celebrity." Okay. Please turn on the microphone.
ParlaMint-UA_2013-04-16-m0.u141	Oleg Knaczykki, the All-Ukrainian Freedom Union. I would like to point out that these two bills, which are now under consideration, are not agreed upon, have no support at all for any committee. Instead of the bills that Arsenij Yatzenuk just said are bill 2802 and 2803, they are worked by the working group and by four factions, including the factions of the Party of the Regions and signed as co-author by Sergey Tihypk. So I'm asking you to support Arsenius Yatsenuk's proposal. Thank you.
ParlaMint-UA_2013-04-16-m0.u142	Please, strike faction, National Deputy Chumak.
ParlaMint-UA_2013-04-16-m0.u143	Victor Chumak, 214 constituency, Vitaly Klicka faction. Mr. Volodymyr Vasilovich, your honor, I would like to support the proposal of the National Deputy of Yatsenuk. So these bills are being considered now, and there will be no total support in the room. We have registered projects 2082, 2802, 2803, which today can be put to the vote. By Thursday, they will be considered as a whole. Thank you.
ParlaMint-UA_2013-04-16-m0.u144	Who else do we have? Party of regions.
ParlaMint-UA_2013-04-16-m0.u145	Dear colleagues, this is exactly what Alexander Sergiyovich Efraemov proposed. Since we have arrangements, there is a proposal for these bills, which are now in order of the day, Vladimir Vasilovich, not to put to the vote. And put two bills of inclusion in the agenda of the day session so that we can look at them according to the arrangements that were between all the factions. Thank you for your attention.
ParlaMint-UA_2013-04-16-m0.u146	Ladies and gentlemen, your proposals are understandable, so there is a proposal: Draft Laws 2802 and 2803 to be included in the agenda for the consideration of the Supreme Council. And consider together after the committee's meeting all four laws: 2802, 2803, 1103. 1103 and who else? And 2032. These four laws will be considered together on Thursday after the committee’s consideration. May I put it to a vote? I'm putting this proposal to the vote of the people's deputies. Please vote. [[13:07:56]] For 319 Against 0, held - 3, not voted - 75, just 397. Decision taken. The factions. Region Party 150, Parenthood 85, Vitalia Klicka hit 38, Freedom 35, Company 0, non-fractional 11. Let's move on. The draft Decree (Registration No. 1034) on the appointment of the successive elections of the Kiev City Council and the deputies of the Kiev City Council is being considered. How will we view it? I'll bet you a vote on a reduced procedure. Please vote. [[13:09:19]] For-149 [[Applause]] Against - 148, held – 4, not voted – 94. The decision is not taken. Let us consider the questions. The word is given to the Ukrainian national deputy, Vladimir Aleksandrovitch Yavorowski. Please.
ParlaMint-UA_2013-04-16-m0.u147	Vladimir Yavorowski, Kyiv, progressive Trinity, the Fatherland Party. Dear colleagues! Respectable squires! Dear voters! From this rostrum and not just from this rostrum, many arguments have been fired in favor of the fact that in Kiev it is imperative that both the city’s head and the city council’s deputies be elected. All I have to say is what less those who discussed the subject were talking about, or this problem. Today, Kiev is in a totally unusual, untabled situation, so to speak. See what happened, as led by the Party of Regions and Powers today, the capital of Ukraine. There are no regional councils in Kiev. That is, the original peoples of the kingdom, the root system of the peoples of Kiev, do not exist today. The head of the district administration, and they're almost half gone in Kiev, because they're all the time. So the head of the district administration shares the district budget on his own, very often on an adventure basis. District budgets today are totally out of control, and one single person manages this budget. My constituency hasn't had the head of the district administration in six months. Those who manage these funds are hard to imagine. The other one. We have today, as if we have a city, the Kyiv City Council. I have to tell you that this council is completely demoralized today, it does not actually exist, because when a famous cosmonaut and Greekman in Kiev, you know that a large part of these deputies, who were elected, ran under the wing of Chernevskik and danced to it, and they sang to it, that Popov, who was appointed the head of the city, the head of the administration, apologized, the head of the administration, had to declare officially that for 70 billion, I emphasize, the honourable national deputies and voters: 70 billion! This was officially stated by Popov. And then he said that a lot of the people involved should be put away. And what do we have today? He organizes a wedding every month and sings every time in another city. He is an outstanding singer today, but no one is touching him, for he has performed some missions for which no one will touch him today and will not. That's why we have, once again, a completely demoralized city today. City deputies who do not perform their duties. Another name. It was created, in the past year, a commission of inquiry was set up, led by Kulikov, and I was a member of this commission, and it worked for almost a year, and we called very many people for questioning, and we gathered a tremendous number of facts, the episodes where it was proved, in the report of the commission's head, it was proved that there was absolutely every reason, even on the basis of the violations we found, to declare this town's council ineffective and to dissolve it as one that engaged in permanent corruption, a constant violation of the Constitution that took theirs. Their real estate and so forth. Because of this today, again, today we have no city heads, because today in Kiev I have to say this, maybe many will not like it, but, in fact, the capital, the three million megapolis that we have, the largest city and city, which, as it were, radiates from itself and political forces, and economic forces on the whole of Ukraine, today there is no legitimate authority, contrary to, as opposed to, the eleven elected recently in the last election of Ukraine's national deputies. That's all that's legitimate. Because of this, we understand very well that the Party of Regions today is afraid of any election. And on Doñecina, you know which one. How hard Alchevsk was here to vote, and Vasilk's, and so forth. Any election, that is, any way to decide where the people are going to decide, is unacceptable to them today. Because I'm convinced that Kiev is a key city for them today, and they understand very well that they're losing out on any situation in the city. And we ask you not to touch us for calling our united, joint candidate of the three political powers. We will call it soon, but vote for the election, vote for it, the election and the rest of the issues will be resolved. Because of this, I want to introduce another classic that's in the Trinity, and the Trinity is a very witty, very witty area, they call one of the leaders and the teacher of the Party of Regions, they call it "Machachkala," because he waves his hand. I'm reading, I'm reading. [[Applause]] It was said, this was said on December 25, right after the election, I read, "The first deputy head of the faction of the Party of the Regions, Mikhailo Chechetov.".. It's not me, you don't have a right to reply, because I quote everything. "that the election of the city head of the capital and the deputies of Kyivradya will take place simultaneously in the first half of 2013." What's the matter? Chechtov himself wants the election to be! What the Party of Regions doesn't want, I don't understand, I don't understand. And, honored by me, both you and all Vladimir Vasilovich, who also declared that he would vote personally. Vladimir Vasilovich, am I lying? I can quote you personally, if I have to, that "I support the elections in Kiev and I will vote for them." So what is it? Please, there's a chance today. My decision gives me the opportunity to do this. Now, unfortunately, my colleague’s decision depended on it. I was at the Constitutional Court. When they answer that, it's incredibly hard to say. My decision has made it possible since its adoption, if you have enough spirit, democracy, and courage, and respect for the Constitution, today this decision will be voted – in exactly 60 days, the first Sunday, which will be the election of the city of Kiev and the heads of the city, and the deputies of the city council. Another problem that arose over Ukraine, not just over Kiev, will be solved. God give you the spirit to vote like that. You don't vote, I'll tell you, today in Kiev is -- well, that's except that we're majors, and there are other national MPs -- today there are national deputies who, if necessary, are capable of taking power into their own hands and clearing Kiev from the disgrace that you've heaped on his head today.
ParlaMint-UA_2013-04-16-m0.u148	Any questions for the reporter? Please sign up, three minutes. Please, National Deputy Mishchenko.
ParlaMint-UA_2013-04-16-m0.u149	National MP Mishchenko, Kyivshina Vladimir Aleksandrovich, please tell me, if you don't vote your decision today, which I will personally support, it won't be a so-called precedent, if the authorities are afraid to lose something, then we can expect in 2015 that there will be no presidential election at all, because looking at the statistics that exist today in Kiev, it's clear that whoever is not exposed to power, a loving opposition that will be supported by everyone, will be the mayor of Kiev. So, there's not going to be this trend when the authorities get statistics before 2015, and they're losing all over the article, and the same thing is, getting to the Constitutional Court, getting to the President's election. And is this going to say that in 2015 we're going to be choosing the head of state here in Parliament? Thank you.
ParlaMint-UA_2013-04-16-m0.u150	Please.
ParlaMint-UA_2013-04-16-m0.u151	Mr. Sergei, my sympathy for you is firm. In fact, you almost answered my question, and you understand very well: If today there is no election in Kiev this year (principally, this year!), in 2014, they will no longer be possible because the presidential elections will be breathing and it will be impossible to do so. Because if they block and try today, at least to block, I'm convinced that we (I mean opposition, and democratic forces, and all the Chinese, because without them it means absolutely nothing) should clear the way through Kiev, through elections in Kiev and the city's heads, and city council deputies clear the democratic road to possible elections in 2015. If we do not do so, this wicked prophecy of yours may take place. But it can be very real. Because of this, we need to stand still today. This war is coming for Kiev, and I am convinced that we must win along with the Chinese.
ParlaMint-UA_2013-04-16-m0.u152	Please, the Fatherland faction. Knazevitch.
ParlaMint-UA_2013-04-16-m0.u153	Thank you, Mr. Head. Vladimir Aleksandrovitch, I fully support your legislative initiative and will personally vote for it. That's the only question I have. According to article 38 of the Rules, you know that part two says that when it comes to the exercise of authority by the Supreme Council, decisions are taken and effective from the time they are adopted. True, unless otherwise provided by the decree itself. Regrettably, your decision in paragraph 4 provides for something else. The point is that the decision will take effect only after it has been published. In view of the specificity of the Rules, would you not now agree, under the transcript, to make oral changes to your own decision and to foresee that it will take effect right now, after the vote, so that we do not adhere to the publication procedure? You know that this is a complicated, cumbersome procedure and depends on certain subjective factors that we should not rely on. Thank you.
ParlaMint-UA_2013-04-16-m0.u154	Dear Ruslan, you're right, of course, but I was aware that, of course, publishing a decree or a law is already final, so to speak, the moment when it went completely through and became legitimate. Because of this, I was going out of my way. But what you're proposing is quite real, and I'm ready as the author of the determination to make this detail, this amendment, that from the moment of adoption, if it really happens that it will be voted now, we can get out of here now, understanding that the Kiev elections will finally be.
ParlaMint-UA_2013-04-16-m0.u155	Thank you. Have a seat. A word for the co - report of the Head of the Committee on State Building and Local Self - Rule, David Vážajevich Zwania. Please.
ParlaMint-UA_2013-04-16-m0.u156	Thank you, Mr. Chairman. Honourable National Deputies, the Committee of the Supreme Council of Ukraine on State Building and Local Self-Government, commissioned by the Head of the Supreme Council of Ukraine, Vladimir Rybak, at its meeting on 3 April 2013, reviewed the draft Ordinance on the Assignment of Subsequent Elections of the Kyiv City Head and Deputies of the Kiev City Council (Registration No. 1034), which was co-worked and submitted by the National Deputy of Ukraine, Volodymyr Yavorowski. The above-mentioned draft decree proposes to appoint, on an exceptional basis, the election of the Kiev City Council and the deputies of the Kiev City Council on Sunday, following the 60-day deadline from the date of taking effect of this decision, and to conduct them in accordance with the order set out in the Ukrainian Law on the Election of Deputies of the Supreme Council of the Autonomous Republic of Crimea, Local Councils and Rural, Village, Urban Heads. I would like to inform you that the committee had already considered the draft decision in its meeting on March 6, 2013, and unanimously approved the decision to recommend to the Supreme Council of Ukraine a draft Decision on the appointment of the successive election of the Kiev City Council to the deputies of the Kiev City Council (registration number 1034) when considering the first reading to reject. During the discussion at the committee’s meeting on April 3, the draft resolution on the appointment of out-of-court elections of the Kiev City Council and City Council deputies (registration number 1034), the drafting of the draft changed the identification number of the national deputy Vladimir Yavorowski. It was the only thing he brought. The majority of the members of the committee decided to recommend to the Supreme Council of Ukraine a draft decree following a first reading rejection. You have been provided with the right materials. Please also support the committee’s decision. A few words of myself. There is no reason to hold a standstill election until we get an interpretation of the Constitutional Court, in principle, on the committee. Thus, such a decision was made. Thank you.
ParlaMint-UA_2013-04-16-m0.u157	Is there a question? Please sign up, five minutes. I beg you, Fatherland faction, Odarchenko.
ParlaMint-UA_2013-04-16-m0.u158	Please tell me, how do you think it's important to legitimize the authority of the Kyiv City Council for more than five years? You now clearly stated by the decision of your committee that there is no need to hold elections in Kiev today. So you're legitimizing authority, you're continuing to authorize city council deputies for more than five years. I believe that Vladimir Yavorowski's decree allows us to get out of this constitutional clinche and find a way out of this situation. And to hold elections, and to be in line with the Constitution. I think today the committee's decision, it worked for power. And it's taken away constitutional law, it's trying to take away the constitutional right of China to choose power. Tell me, how do you explain the constitutionality, the extension of the authority of the Kiev City Council?
ParlaMint-UA_2013-04-16-m0.u159	I want to remind you that we unanimously supported the Vladimir Klick's draft decision on the holding of the next election, and from this rostrum we have highlighted this. There is no basis for an extra election yet. I mean, there must be some interpretation, because there is no constitutional norm for the conduct of extracurricular norms. The committee cannot make a decision on its own. This is not a political body. The political body is the Supreme Council Hall. We have expressed our opinion on all the standards and standards that we have, that we use. We don't have any. If we get anything from the Constitutional Court, we can go to another decision. So far, there is no legal basis for the holding of extracurricular elections. Therefore, there can be no claim to the committee. Thank you.
ParlaMint-UA_2013-04-16-m0.u160	Freedom Union, National Deputy Sich.
ParlaMint-UA_2013-04-16-m0.u161	Please pass the word to my colleague Peace.
ParlaMint-UA_2013-04-16-m0.u162	Please report to the Peaceable People's Deputy.
ParlaMint-UA_2013-04-16-m0.u163	Alexander Mirny, the All-Ukrainian Freedom Union. Dear David Vajajevic, this is really the only mechanism that allows us to get out of a situation in which the Party of Regions has driven itself. Given the size of the committee’s composition, taking most of the committee into account, it is clear that the committee’s decision will be made. But there is common sense. Because if we refer to the decision of the Constitutional Court, then we can close the Supreme Council and address all of the questions about Ukraine's vitality to the Constitutional Court, which will interpret us. We believe that the decision of the committee is wrong and we will support this decision. Thank you for your attention.
ParlaMint-UA_2013-04-16-m0.u164	I'm reminding you once again that I don't represent any political power on this rostrum right now, I'm the head of the committee. And I'm reporting to the committee today. And I want to remind you that the committee unanimously voted against this bill. I want to remind you that you have the right in the hall to make political decisions. The committee doesn't have that right. So I did what the committee has to do, and you have the right to vote as you see fit.
ParlaMint-UA_2013-04-16-m0.u165	The Fatherland faction, National MP Blackwolf.
ParlaMint-UA_2013-04-16-m0.u166	Dear Mr. Zwania, see, the Constitutional Court asked if there could be another election? He won't tell you anything about the next election. And you know it. Because no one asked him about them. Moreover, even on the question of the next election, he will tell you: The question is obvious, read the Constitution. Do you understand? The answer will be yes. So if we can't hold another election because they're under the Constitution in 2015, we're obviously going to have to run an extra election. Because according to the Constitution, the city council of Kiev is elected as any other council and city head for five years. In that case, not holding these elections is a crime. And the position of the committee in this case is a collective error, I understand. You had to review it after the questions about the next election were answered and corrected. And I think you're going to have to do that. Otherwise we're just not going to get out of this conflict when the council doesn't work for seven and a half years without a city head that's been gone for a year. That's ridiculous.
ParlaMint-UA_2013-04-16-m0.u167	Once again, I stress that any decision on the conduct of the next, out-of-order elections is a political and legal decision. So there are no direct rules in the Constitution. Today we have to get either an interpretation of the Constitutional Court or a decision in the Chamber. This is your privilege. But the committee cannot make its decisions based on political positions. So the committee made the decision he was to make. So everything remains in the judgment of the hall. Thank you.
ParlaMint-UA_2013-04-16-m0.u168	Freedom Union, national deputy Zelik, final question.
ParlaMint-UA_2013-04-16-m0.u169	Please pass the word to Andrew Illenka.
ParlaMint-UA_2013-04-16-m0.u170	Pass it on.
ParlaMint-UA_2013-04-16-m0.u171	David Vážajevich, please tell me, you say, you can't assign the next election, so the queue is already broken. So it turns out that there's even a right to vote in China. Because we're losing all this casualism -- we're losing people's right to choose power. What is more, when you talk about the lack of direction in the Constitution for the Supreme Council to appoint elections. Well, it's not. Well, the Constitution obliges the Supreme Council, this is our mandate to appoint elections. We cannot usurp power and a certain territory to ban the community from choosing local self - rule. So please do not create a legal collapse. Your decision by the committee is just legally absurd and let's vote faster, I urge everyone to vote in favour of this ruling.
ParlaMint-UA_2013-04-16-m0.u172	When changes were made to the Constitution, the Supreme Council did not take into account the rules and regulations regarding the conduct of local elections. It's a mistake and it's not your fault or mine. So we're all in the same situation that we're in, this is a political and legal decision that we have to make in the hall. The committee can't act as a political body, it acts as a body that appoints elections only within the framework of the law, by the letter of the law, so I defend the position that I have to defend and protect forever. There is no basis for any extra election yet on the committee. Thank you.
ParlaMint-UA_2013-04-16-m0.u173	Thank you. Have a seat. I'm asking you to sign up the factions for the performance. I beg of you, National Deputy Karpuntsz, Vitaly Klitschka faction.
ParlaMint-UA_2013-04-16-m0.u174	Give the leader a word.
ParlaMint-UA_2013-04-16-m0.u175	Please, microphone on the rostrum, National MP Vitaly Klitschko.
ParlaMint-UA_2013-04-16-m0.u176	I want to talk to the MPs, and I want to talk to everyone who's listening to the broadcast right now from "The Council." To this day, the elections in Kiev are purely political, not a matter of court, not a question of another election or another election. I want to speak to each of the deputies, this is a direct commitment, to vote on the elections in Kiev. We've all been living in a city, we've seen the state it's been in for years, unfortunately. The city is not comfortable with life, and the Chinese do not influence the processes that are taking place in our city. And as a result, we see the MAFAM being built, the Kiev being cut down by parks, squares, it becomes an uncomfortable city for the inhabitants and people who come to our capital today. Remember, the elections were to take place two years ago, and they were transferred to last year. Today's election is due to take place, as in the Capital Act, the last week of May. The election is on the move again. Why? Just because it's a political issue. Only because Kiev is now viewed as a playground for political decisions. And we understand that if we don't make the elections now, they could be transferred to this year, in the fall, they could be in the fall, they could be in the next year, and they might not happen at all. If we do so, the authorities can completely reverse the election in Kiev. So if we want to live in today’s city, it's not a question of whether it's another election or an extra election in Kiev. There is no host in Kiev, and all that is happening is one hundred percent of the President's responsibility, as the President's representative, Mr. Popov, is the city's head of the Kiev State Administration, and unfortunately, he shows that there is no host in the city. There are no laws, and Kyiv is moving in a dangerous direction. And we're all helping Kiev to get on that line when we're saving our capital. That's why I'm calling the deputies. Please, it's not a question of whether it's another election or not. Vote, there must be a mayor in Kiev, there must be a new crime chosen by the Chinese. Thank you. () [[Applause]]
ParlaMint-UA_2013-04-16-m0.u177	Freedom Union, National Deputy Illenko.
ParlaMint-UA_2013-04-16-m0.u178	Good afternoon, dear fellows! Illenko, faction of the All-Ukrainian Freedom Union, 215 constituency. The respectable society, all this legal cassualism, all these totally fabricated nuances and trailers that the Party of the Regions is covering up its political unwillingness to appoint elections in Kiev and give the Chinese the right to choose for themselves the authorities really doesn't matter. Because there is only one thing that matters: the right of the Chinese to take power. Everything else is superficial and secondary. Because these arguments are constantly changing: at first they said you can't have another election, now they're saying you can't have an election out of turn, and they're actually going to say that you don't have to have any election in Ukraine at all. And all these references to the Constitutional Court, the Society, have no meaning either. Because, you know, in 2015 they're also going to go to the Constitutional Court and say, let's wait for the Constitutional Court to let us hold the President's election. Guys, this is ridiculous! It is funny that legal elections could not be held in the European capital, the capital of a European state. Imagine such a situation in Paris, London, Rome. It's just absurd and it's a disgrace. And we, the pikeys, are not going to tolerate this disgrace. We need to understand that today’s vote will once again show the true attitude of the political forces toward the Chinese. Because today I have the impression that the Party of Regions and Power is just taking revenge on the Chinese for their choice they made in the last parliamentary elections, in general for their principled stand against this gang. And that is why Kiev is now deprived of the right to take power. Today there are, you know, such bad rumors that the Constitutional Court is ready to decide, and that the Constitutional Court will say that only city-head elections can be held in August, in the heat of the resort season. And there's nothing to be said about the town council. There are such rumors today. And I'm sure we shouldn't allow that. It's just bullshit. Elections should be in time, elections should be for both the city’s heads and the city’s council. And this is our principle position that we're not going away from. Today, we urge everyone to vote for the elections in Kiev. The faction of the All-Ukrainian Freedom Union votes in favour. And we're talking again, first of all, to the Party of Regions, don't get angry with the Chinese, stop this destruction, let people choose power. Because today you're pretending that it's Kiev that will start a revolution that will drive you away. Glory to Ukraine!
ParlaMint-UA_2013-04-16-m0.u179	It's a faction of the Ukrainian Company. She's a national MP.
ParlaMint-UA_2013-04-16-m0.u180	Sergey Gordienko, faction of the Ukrainian Company. Dear colleagues and respected citizens of Ukraine! For 20 years, all Ukrainian citizens are part of the same show. The greatest reason for destabilizing the situation in our country is the 20 - year struggle for power. Today and all these days, and for twenty years, we see a day - to - day series of this struggle for power. Look, nobody wants to vote today for abolishing pension reform, medical reform. [[B in m in s a l in]] No one wants to vote to get paid off. No one wants to vote today because there are not enough votes to simplify a simple citizen, how he can get help just after paying for a child. And there's a lot and a lot of these bills. First of all, they insist, they fight to vote for power in the state and get it in one way or another, or for authority at the regional level. What is happening in Kiev today? You. I'd like to remind the Chinese that in the sixth call, and in the seventh call, the faction of the Company of Ukraine, at all stages, cast its votes in order for the elections in Kiev to be held both by the city's head and by the city council of Kiev, this has always been the case. We will continue to support these elections today, but there are many who shed tears because local self-government is being plundered and there is no possibility of being self-governed and self-governed in other locations. I'd like to go back to where I started. When it comes to total looting of our state, when the process of this robbery is under way, in parallel with this process of redistribution of property, and power is needed as access to both looting and redistribution, and then cracking, these processes, no one needs strong self-government, because strong self-government will never give away land, communal property and budget. I would like to see that if this decree were to be voted and the elections in Kiev were to take place, the Chinese would vote in favour of such authority as would actually be in place in the city, would give order and would pursue a policy that would bring happiness to every family, so that the Chinese would not be mistaken. The faction of the Company of Ukraine supports this decision. Thank you.
ParlaMint-UA_2013-04-16-m0.u181	Please, the faction of the Party of the Regions, Koleznichenko.
ParlaMint-UA_2013-04-16-m0.u182	Dear voters of the famous Ukrainian community, I am speaking to you under the National Fascist Company, which tells us that they are legislation in force. Today, however, we are part of another spectacle when the formulation of anarchy and lawlessness is introduced in the fight for the observance of the law. I have to remind myself that these demogogues, which are showing us the tears of Jaroslavna here, insisted in 2008 on illegal new extraordinary elections to the city council and the mayor of Kiev. The election was over, but these opportunists lacked the power of will or conscience to admit that they had lost. In 2010, they did not allow the Kievlians to elect the mayor and not allow the Kievani to elect their deputies. Therefore, today, we are again trying to build a rule of law and act exclusively within the framework of the law. And crocodile tears because the city of Kiev is abandoned are just crocodile tears. Bridges, bridges, billions, tens of billions of rubble thrown into the Kiev household through the personal participation of President Viktor Yanukovic of Ukraine, thanks to the participation of Prime Minister Azarov and Cabinet of Ministers, the city of Kiev has not been overlooked, and residents of Kiev have received constant support and attention. The ever-increasing budget of the city of Kiev is confirmed. This is the main answer to the question, "Is there power in Kiev?" There's power in Kiev. The Cabinet of Ministers and the President will not leave the Kiev without their immediate care, support and attention. And the faction of the Party of the Regions will vote exclusively in favour of the draft laws that are within the framework of the Constitution, within the framework of the laws, because if we require everyone to comply with the law, we are obliged to comply with the law and we are obliged to call on those who today, with stones in their hands, attack MPs, to those who attempt to incur civilian bloodshed in Ukraine, hoping that they have achieved anything. They are agents of foreign influence who are destroying an independent Ukraine, destroying the people, destroying democracy, freedom of speech in our State. They are not on the road to Ukrainian statehood, they are enemies of the Ukrainian State, they are enemies of the Ukrainian people and our history. I declare for the Kievlians. You will receive those laws and draft regulations that will comply with the Constitution and the laws of our State. Only then will power in Ukraine, and in Kiev will it be legitimate. Only then will she be uninterrupted. Only then will it comply with the Constitution.
ParlaMint-UA_2013-04-16-m0.u183	The Fatherland faction, National Deputy Bondarenko.
ParlaMint-UA_2013-04-16-m0.u184	Vladimir Bondarenko, Fatherland faction. Dear friends! Those processes that are taking place in Ukraine today are terrible for self - government. The committee I work with has over 140 cases to determine the fate of local self-government in 140 administrative units. The point is that in these cities, villages and villages there is no longer either a head, or a council itself, or there is some uncertainty, as is the case in Ternopolis, when the vast majority of deputies are not registered, and the council is not working, the unapproved district budget. Kiev is also in a special position in this situation. The capital of Ukraine has long been without self - rule, and the results of it today are felt every day. If we say that in Ukraine over these years, we know that the land is largely cleared, which is better; we know that the finance today has been cut down, like the "shoe skin," and the village, and the village, and the city only gets a quarter of the money that's being collected in its territory, everything else is centralized. We also know that property today has crossed over to the right people without the control of the community. In terms of Kiev, these processes are even harsher, but they are accompanied by enormous technological dangers. Today's government, which was said to be here, has shown what it is, during the snowfalls, when the city was paralyzed by its chief resting in Vienna; we see today, when almost 100 rays at the Botnice Station, and Kyiv's chief, his subjects do not know that such a station is in Kiev. They also may not know the condition of the Kiev roads, they may not suspect that there are long - dead pipes under those roads, and the next heating season may be spent on the street by fires from cut trees that are cut down in parks by hundreds of thousands. A recent decision has been made to build a height right next to Sofia Kyivska. The same heights are built near the Cave Lavra. What are you doing with the capital of Ukraine? You came here as temporary residents, or do you want your children to live here as well. So if you want children to live, to be treated as European capitals, support the establishment in Kiev of normal authority that would care for this city, not just rob it, as it is done on a full-time basis today. I want to tell you that in my home district, while we're talking here, the Ice Stadium is being robbed, the Red Excavator is being robbed, the other factories have already been robbed. This is all the new authority that came here just to rob. So, honourable cynics, I'm addressing you, I think today the Kiev Mayors, and you supported us, these twelve of them today, will work in such a way that we can recreate this power by the methods that we have. Because today's Supreme Council is obviously not going to adopt a law that would give us, or a decision that would allow us to choose this power, to create executive committees and to demand work from them. Thank you.
ParlaMint-UA_2013-04-16-m0.u185	Ladies and gentlemen, I continue my session for 15 minutes. Now, 10 more minutes, please report to the MPs. And we'll make decisions. The committee wrote a regulation for five minutes. Ten minutes, please. People's MP, Freedom faction. Please.
ParlaMint-UA_2013-04-16-m0.u186	Oleg Knaczykki, the All-Ukrainian Freedom Union. When I listen to the committee's reporting head, I can't understand his logic. There's no reason to have an out-of-court election. Over the past plenary week, we voted on more than 100 decisions to hold consecutive elections, including on the basis of the permanent suspension of city heads. In Kiev, the city’s head ceased his term of office. That's why the committee can't see. You don't have to go through with the Constitutional Court's decision. Because in terms of the subject matter before the Constitutional Court, it's a question of the next election, actually. This is about the date of the election. And as far as the election is concerned, it has absolutely nothing to do with it. I'm talking to my fellow national MPs. And I pay attention to the Constitution of Ukraine, and to the international norms that provide for the timeliness and re-election of local self-government. The term of office of the Kyiv City Council is over. And after that, any decision taken by the Kyiv Council will be worthless. I want to draw the attention of the public and journalists today. Today's vote on the Kiev election will be displayed. And if the authorities today take over the right of the Chinese to choose local government, mayor and council, then tomorrow in the same criminal way because of an anti-constitutional act that they will call a referendum, the authorities will take the same opportunity to elect the President and Parliament of Ukraine. Dear colleagues, I'm addressing the Party of Regions, stop finally raping the Constitution, raping the Chinese and raping Ukraine. Thank you.
ParlaMint-UA_2013-04-16-m0.u187	The Fatherland faction. National MP Tomenko.
ParlaMint-UA_2013-04-16-m0.u188	Dear colleagues, I would like to draw your attention to the fact that we are now in the 21st century and in one of Europe's largest cities we are discussing whether or not we have the right to choose our own power in the 21st century. Does the Ukrainian and European cities have the right to create local self - government? Can they trust people to run areas and cities? Guys, get your shit together! Mikola Kostomarov wrote that in the time of Kiev’s Russian capital, Kiev had the highest degree of tolerance, democracy, and everyone who came here wondered how the Chinese could organize their lives. Today, in the 21st century, the question is that authorities are afraid to trust the Chinese to choose a city council and a city head. That city council, where most double traitors. They first betrayed their factions and moved for money to Chernevski and then betrayed Chernevski and moved to the new majority. Are we going to tolerate Kyivrada, where there are double traitors? We will put up with the head of the Kiev City Administration, who has the courage to defend the Kiev in the fight for the money, only when it is in favor. The papers in the newspaper Today, because it says at the end of "rights of advertising," there are articles that Popov disagrees internally with Azarov, who doesn't give money to Kiev. What, then, does such a leader need to be the capital of Ukraine in the 21st century? Now I want to say to David Vajawich that, of course, knowledge of laws helps guide committees. The Law on Local Self - Government is 78, 79 articles, which clearly foresees the possibility of early elections. We announced the elections in 2008 on the basis of these two articles and chose Kyivrada and the city head. We have enough materials and a commission of inquiry that I led and a commission of inquiry led by Kulikov, where there are violent violations of the law, corruption that the president, the government and Popov have spoken of. Why do we have no reason to hold a presidential election? It's the right of the profile committee to analyze the situation. Shall we report and say yes??? 78, 79 articles can be scheduled for the term. That's not the problem. The problem is that we have the right to choose our own leadership. And we're the opposition, we're not fighting over the city's head. We are not fighting for Kyivrada, we are fighting for the right of local self - government and the right of kyans to run their city. As long as you can. We survived the Mongol Tatar, survived the Poles, survived the Germans. Well, can't future people who don't know the names of the streets know Ukrainian history that destroy Ukrainian historical sites -- will they run Kiev and collect from every MAFA and from every region??? Money. We vote for the election, and in the election, we show who is supported by the Kiev.
ParlaMint-UA_2013-04-16-m0.u189	The Fatherland faction, Odarchenko.
ParlaMint-UA_2013-04-16-m0.u190	Dear colleagues, the Constitution clearly records the sovereign right of Ukrainians to choose power. It is clearly stated in the Constitution that the Ukrainian community can take power. What's going on today? There is a very clear, harsh violation of the Constitution when in the capital city of Ukraine the Chinese are prevented from holding elections. When the constitutional right of each cyanide is replaced by some Mongolian right to recognize its governors to rule the capital of Ukraine. Dear friends, I ask you to think that right now in this room the authorities are trying to motivate their non-vote by some sort of decision of the Constitutional Court are stealing from every Ukrainian the sovereign right to choose power. Today she's kidnapping him and taking him to the capital of Kiev, and tomorrow, she's going to kidnap him in the election of the President, and she's going to come up with some new decisions by the Constitutional Court. Dear friends, let's see if this Mongolian system works in Kiev, is it effective? Isn't it a powerful testimony to us that the system doesn't work, that it's "cacal" that it doesn't control life in Kiev? Were not the last snowfalls evident when the authorities identified their incompetence. When the head of the administration instead of being around the kyans, cleaning the snow and getting these cars out, he's going with his master to the football and he's giving him tea because he's interested in authority over him, not in supporting the kyans. Dear friends, it is obvious that Janukovič and his supporters are in charge of the system that is being built in Kiev today, when decisions are not taken by vote, decisions are taken not by the community, but by people who focus on the streets of Bankova. Friends, isn't it a eloquent example when the Guest House today is the heart below, judged by the power of 21,000 bracelets, just think! And the authorities say there's nothing we can do, because we have laws like that, that's the rules of the game. It is for such tools that they do all they can to rob the Chinese so that the elections do not take place. Guys, I'm talking to the Chinese. No city (in Kiev) is robbed, and the income tax remains with the citizens. In Kiev, 8 billion dollars are being stolen to serve the Donetsk region and humiliate the capital, preventing its development. I propose and ask everyone to vote in favour. Thank you.
ParlaMint-UA_2013-04-16-m0.u191	The Fatherland faction, Pazinjak, last performance.
ParlaMint-UA_2013-04-16-m0.u192	Vasil Pazinjak. Please pass the word to Sergio Sobolev.
ParlaMint-UA_2013-04-16-m0.u193	Please, Sergey Sobolev.
ParlaMint-UA_2013-04-16-m0.u194	Dear colleagues! I would like to remind you that the city of Kyiv of June 1, last year, does not have a legally elected Kiev City Head. You all remember very well how you fled your post in order not to answer by law, and who actually received preferences from the acting president and the Party of Regions of the previous mayor, Mr. Chernewicki. What happens next? Since June 2, this year, Kiev will not have a legitimate council. Could there be such a situation if, in the face of the most severe economic crisis that so many members of the Party of Regions are talking about, the capital would not have its legal authority? But we understand very well that this is just the first step in choosing the city of Kiev and the city council. Next. We need to immediately change the law and transfer the authority to the legally elected Kiev City Head, where these powers have been taken away by this majority, led by the Party of Regions, when they have taken away even the opportunity to choose not just a legitimate head but now there is no possibility for the Chinese to actually have their own power to manage property, money. That's why we see everything happening in Kiev today. That's why the legal committee, and I would like to announce its decision, which analyzes all the laws in accordance with the Constitution, acknowledged unanimously that this draft decision does not conflict with the Constitution of Ukraine, is a decision that should be implemented in the session room. This is not even our right, it is the responsibility of the members of the Supreme Council to abide by the Constitution and to carry out the relevant articles on the appointment of elections. The other one. We have an equally important task, which will be to have these elections held on a legitimate basis. And all the allegations that this is being considered in the Constitutional Court do not reject the possibility of declaring these elections. That is why the decision made by Yavorowski is in fact one that is in conformity with the Constitution and should be voted in the session room. Today there will be a moment of truth: we have today several dozen cities, a village where there is no legal authority. Kiev is just the top. On what basis do the second year not appoint elections at the district center in Chernivce, on what basis are the rights of local self-government still denied to a number of cities and villages in Ukraine? That's why our faction insists, this vote is fundamental. It will no longer be possible to hide here, and every voice – it will be in accordance with the Constitution of Ukraine. And that's why we're calling for a vote in favour. Thank you.
ParlaMint-UA_2013-04-16-m0.u195	Thank you. From the non-faction minute, Baby, please. One minute. Turn on the microphone. [[B in m in s a l in]] It's non-fractional, please!
ParlaMint-UA_2013-04-16-m0.u196	Oleg Lazko, Radical Party. Comrade Odarchenko says that the Mongolian system is bad. She is not that bad. In Mongolia, a former president was convicted of corruption. We don't know when it's going to be. And the system that exists in Kiev and exists in Ukraine is a system of power-absorbing when authorities refuse to appoint elections in Kiev, elections in Chernobyl, elections in other cities. The government thus demonstrates its weakness: they fear the sneezes, they fear the will of the sneezes, they fear that the mayor will be in Kiev, and Kiyivrada will work on the kyans. I think it's a very good signal for the whole country. If the Party of Regions is afraid, that means it's too much to confirm that it's a "coloss on the feet of clay". And God forbid he's going any faster, this colossus.
ParlaMint-UA_2013-04-16-m0.u197	I beg your pardon, does the closing word Javorowski take? Please. And then the final word to the chairman of the committee. Let the procedure be complete!
ParlaMint-UA_2013-04-16-m0.u198	Yavorowski is going to the rostrum. Please turn on the rostrum.
ParlaMint-UA_2013-04-16-m0.u199	Dear colleagues, our constituencies and our dear snores! Well, above all, I am grateful to all those who participated in this very important bill. I've actually had so many speeches here that, in fact, there's no one to discuss it with. The only thing I can discuss with my colleague, a very old acquaintance, Mr. Zwania. When you stood on this stand and reported that the committee was a hundred percent, everyone, literally, who was, voted in order not to take that decision. And you, Mr. David, how did you vote? I have a question. You have strayed from this rostrum, saying that the draft of my ruling is contrary to the Constitution, where is the evidence, where do you put one argument? This is absolutely the right of the Supreme Council to decide whether to hold a temporary, timely election, which is what I propose to do today. There are two versions, we're going to see how they're going to develop, and then we're going to have to amend the electoral law, and we're going to have to do some more work to make these elections legitimate, so that they're actually the capitals, not the towns, where someone has to draw something. I understand very well that it will be necessary to set up district district commissions in the area, because today there is only a city. But these are all basic things, the main thing today is the political decision, the political will of the majority. I hope today is really a test of surprise, so I would say, a test of self-reliant thinking primarily by the representatives of the Party of Regions, because as far as I've heard, the Communists seem to have said that they would vote in favour of this decision. So, go ahead, in a few minutes, you can become a historical person if you vote for it. Indeed, the historical people who gave Kiev the opportunity to choose power. If you don't, the Chinese will take power anyway, but I'm sure it'll be very bad for you, gentlemen.
ParlaMint-UA_2013-04-16-m0.u200	Thank you. Head of the committee, closing statement.
ParlaMint-UA_2013-04-16-m0.u201	Ladies and gentlemen, once again, I remind you that the committee unanimously supported Vladimir Klick's decision to hold a line. Vitalia Click for the next election. So that's as much as possible for the next election. The committee unanimously supported the project's rejection of out-of-order elections. Because there's no violation of the Constitution -- and there's no reason -- and we've already talked about it, there's one point on the committee, there's no difference of opinion. Although the last committee had a political component, most voted in favour of rejecting Mr. Yavorowski's project. He only changed his license number, and he did not make any other changes. And that's why we voted already, the last committee voted in political terms, not in committee. Therefore, Mr. Yavorowski, I beseech you all, and beg the Hall of the Supreme Council: let us work according to the principle of law, and not according to the principle of political due diligence. Because, in principle, the question of Kiev is not a political issue. Thank you.
ParlaMint-UA_2013-04-16-m0.u202	Ladies and gentlemen, may I have your attention? Let's move on to making a decision. I put to the vote the draft Decree (Registration No. 1034) on the appointment of alternate members of the Kyiv City Council and the Kiev City Head for adoption as a basis and as a whole. People's deputies, please vote. [[14:07:26]] For-200 Against five. We're holding on to 46. They didn't vote - 122. The decision is not taken. The factions. Region Party - 0, Fatherland - 93, Vitalia Klicka - 39, Freedom - 34, Company - 20, Postfaction - 14. The morning session is closed. Let's continue the session at 4:00.
