ParlaMint-UA_2013-11-05-m1.u1	Ladies and gentlemen, please prepare for registration. Turn on the "Race" system. [[16:02:12]] There were 377 national deputies registered in the hall. I declare the evening session of the Supreme Council of Ukraine open. We continue to consider the issues of the day’s order. A draft Act (number 2471a) is under consideration to amend section III, paragraph 9, of the Act on Amendments to Certain Legislative Acts of Ukraine (for the export of energy supplies to member countries of the Energy Community). How do we view it?
ParlaMint-UA_2013-11-05-m1.u2	We'll vote later. I'll bet the vote on the proposal after the reduced procedure. People's deputies, please vote. [[16:03:34]] To - 125 Against 49, held 4, did not vote – 2. The decision is not taken. I invite you to report to Deputy Minister of Energy and Coal Industry Sergio Mihajlovich Czecha. Please. You have up to 10 minutes.
ParlaMint-UA_2013-11-05-m1.u3	Dear Volodymira Vasilovich, distinguished national MPs, is being reviewed by the draft Ukrainian Act amending section III, paragraph 9, of the Act on Amendments to Certain Legislative Acts of Ukraine, which provides for a distinction between export and export of energy products: gas, natural gas in a gas-like state, natural gas in a cumbersome state, and the member states of the Energy Society. The draft law proposes to abolish export duties when exporting energy products to member states of the Energy Community. The implementation of this law will help Ukraine fulfil its obligations to bring legislation into line with the European Union’s legislation, including the implementation of its obligations under the protocol for Ukraine’s accession to the Energy Community Treaty. Please support the proposed bill. Thank you for your attention.
ParlaMint-UA_2013-11-05-m1.u4	Thank you. Where did you go? You'll probably have questions. Is there a question? Please sign up for the question. It's a full-on procedure. They signed up for the question of MPs. Please, faction of the Party of the Regions, National MP Smithyuch.
ParlaMint-UA_2013-11-05-m1.u5	Thank you. Sergei Mikhailovich, please tell me. I'm concerned about pricing. You know, the gas for Ukrainian industrial producers: chemistry, metallurgy, and so on is much higher in the internal market than we export energy to Western countries, including the European Community. You're offering gas in this case, and if you take electricity, you know, for our industrial enterprises, electricity in the internal market is twice as expensive, which is, for example, we're exporting energy. Don't you think that's how we put our businesses into uncompetitive relationships with end-product production? And how do we address this issue in order to have really the same possibilities as energy prices, which are a major part of many of our enterprises, an integral part, in the end, of production? How can we address this issue in order to have equal opportunities, even priority, for a national producer? Thank you.
ParlaMint-UA_2013-11-05-m1.u6	Please.
ParlaMint-UA_2013-11-05-m1.u7	Thank you for asking. In addition to the fact that this law has essentially formal requirements for adaptation to European legislation, it has the economic meaning of the following. First, such a bill, which does not complicate exports, imports of electricity, should provide economic grounds for simplifying procedures and not for our underground gas shelters. So we encourage European partners to put gas in our underground vault and transfer it to storage as well as to choose what needs to be done. It's our potential, it's services that we think will be needed in the European Union, and it's going to be Naftogaz and Ukrattransgas to make it happen. Secondly, the lack of export duty for gas exports and related products is an attractive condition for those firms.
ParlaMint-UA_2013-11-05-m1.u8	Thank you. The faction of the Company of Ukraine, Kudra. We have to answer briefly. Please.
ParlaMint-UA_2013-11-05-m1.u9	May I give the floor to the National Communist Deputy Gordienka?
ParlaMint-UA_2013-11-05-m1.u10	Please, Gordien.
ParlaMint-UA_2013-11-05-m1.u11	Sergey Gordienko, faction of the Ukrainian Company. Please tell me, Sergey Mikhailovich, is there today and what are the rates, customs tariffs, for the exports of our hydrocarbons that are being exported abroad today? And the second question. Directly or indirectly, the adoption of this bill will affect the growth of tariffs here in the middle of the country or not?
ParlaMint-UA_2013-11-05-m1.u12	I'm answering the first question. The export duty is paid at 35 percent of the customs value of such goods, but at least 400 dollars per thousand cubic metres. And the second question. Because natural gas exports are not a common phenomenon, we don't have such a market.
ParlaMint-UA_2013-11-05-m1.u13	Please, Sergey Mikhailovich, sit down. For the co-report, I invite the first deputy head of the Committee on Fuel and Energy in Oleg Alexandrovich Zarubinski's complex. Please.
ParlaMint-UA_2013-11-05-m1.u14	Dear Vladimir Vasilovich! Dear colleagues! The Committee on Fuel and Energy Complex, Nuclear Policy and Nuclear Security, at its meeting on 4 September 2013, considered a draft of the Ukrainian Cabinet of Ministers amending section III, paragraph 9, of the Act on Amendments to certain legislative acts of Ukraine. Today, the Act on Amendments to Ukraine's Natural Gas Market Principles Act establishes the right of enterprises whose share of the State's statutory fund is 50 per cent or more, to export natural gas of their own production in the range determined by the projected balance of income and distribution of natural gas in Ukraine. So the phenomenon of gas exports in Ukraine exists, the only thing that, as the deputy of the Ministry of Profitability correctly said, is not a phenomenon that is common, spread. I mean, I can immediately answer that it doesn't essentially affect the energy balance. At the same time, gas - export operators pay an export duty of 35 percent of the customs value of such goods, as has already been said. Under the Energy Community Treaty, no expert tax is applied on the supply of energy products from Ukraine to the countries of the European Union. I would like to say that this is not an exclusive norm for Ukraine, it is the principle and requirement of the work and functioning of the Energy European Society, which is already a member of Ukraine. The draft law proposes to abolish the application of export duties when exporting energy products, this gas is said to be not only gas, it is natural gas in a gas-like state and it is natural gas in a clumped state to the countries of the Energy Community, and thus to bring Ukraine's legislation into line with European Union legislation. Let me stress, this isn't about being an exclusive norm. Moreover, when the Supreme Council of Ukraine adopted in 2003 a law called the National Program for the Adaptation of Ukrainian Legislation to the Legislation of the European Union, so-called "Aki Communiter", this is an integral part of the fulfilment of our obligations since 2003. So there's no force majeure and there's no storm here. It's a good job. The main scientific and expert office, honourable colleagues, in its conclusion, is proposing to adopt the bill as a basis for consideration in the first reading. During the discussion of the bill, members of the PIC, nuclear policy and nuclear safety committee expressed their wish to adopt the bill. Thank you for your attention.
ParlaMint-UA_2013-11-05-m1.u15	Thank you. Any questions for Oleg Alexanderovich? None. Thank you, sit down. I'm asking you to sign up for the faction discussion. Please sign up. Please, faction of the Party of the Regions, National Deputy of Bysarov.
ParlaMint-UA_2013-11-05-m1.u16	Dear colleagues, we have just received a detailed report on the situation that has arisen with the export of gas to the member states of the Energy Community. Under the Treaty establishing the Energy Community, which includes Ukraine, we today need to bring Ukraine's legislation into line with the European Union's legislation. Therefore, in order to fulfil the obligations set out in the Protocol, it is necessary to cancel the payment of the export duty when gas is delivered to the Euro Member States. European integration. To support this project, I recommend it.
ParlaMint-UA_2013-11-05-m1.u17	Thank you. The Vitalia Klitschka faction, National MP Paul Rosenko.
ParlaMint-UA_2013-11-05-m1.u18	Paul Rosenco, Vitaly Caller's Faction. And, of course, two years ago, well, almost three years ago, in 2010, Ukraine took a very important step on the path of its European integration goal -- and joined the European Energy Community. And Ukraine has, in fact, begun to enjoy the benefits of membership in the Energy Community for three years now, already importing gas from neighbouring European countries. This, in our view, helped strengthen Ukraine’s position, including in negotiations with the Russian Federation. But we need to be clear that now the European countries, the European side, are waiting for an adequate response from the Ukrainian side. And cancelling the duty on exports will certainly be a political step towards the European Union, especially the day before the signing of the Association Agreement, which we all expect to get in Vilnius at the end of this month. That's why Ukraine became a member of the European Energy Society three years ago and the main one of its rules is this Association. There can be no mutual customs and no quantitative restrictions on imports or exports of energy products between the member states of the Society. For its part, the European Union has already begun to fulfill its part of its obligations. For some political reasons, Ukraine is delaying its part, and so today the Supreme Council of Ukraine is facing a task, and we can and must do so, take a step in behalf of the European Union. The adoption of this law is certainly a step in the execution of the covenant, the future covenant already an association. By doing so, we will begin to fulfill the commitments that will be made at the Vilnius Summit. The pace of change in energy itself can be an example of similar changes in other fields. At the same time, I want to point out that this step should be accompanied by protection and by Ukrainian consumers. Ukrainians use their own gas, a price that is significantly lower than prices in European Union markets. The government has sufficient mechanisms to keep public manufacturing companies under control and to keep low tariffs on the population. This is for us, for the impact faction, the fundamental question, so we're proposing this Agreement.
ParlaMint-UA_2013-11-05-m1.u19	Freedom Union, National Deputy Igor Miroshnichenko.
ParlaMint-UA_2013-11-05-m1.u20	Please give the word to Alexander the Peace.
ParlaMint-UA_2013-11-05-m1.u21	Pass it on, please.
ParlaMint-UA_2013-11-05-m1.u22	Alexander Mirny, the All-Ukrainian Freedom Union. Of course, the issue of harmonization, or harmonization, of Ukraine's legislation with the legislation of the European community, including the Energy Charter, is an important issue. And what we're doing right now, today, is essentially the right absolute question. This is the right approach, the right view. But let's see what we're proposing here. We're proposing to set up an export duty of at least 400 dollars, so we want to emphasize that we are able to export gas from the other side. We point out all the time that we don't have enough resources, that we're dependent on imports, and that we need to diversify the country's energy independence pathways. So I think we need to look at the issues in the complex and make the right decision. Because if we're going to join the charter, then we have to join the extraction, transport, intelligence, so that we can actually become energy independent and really export. Because making a decision that may be dead is probably wrong. So we call for a face-to-face return to the gas industry in Ukraine, because it's important to us, and it's very good that these issues are raised. We are confident that the European community will find an opportunity to help us with the extraction and exploration of this gas. And we're confident that if we ask the right transparent question without a corrupt scheme, it will allow us to interest our European partners in joint production, joint extraction, joint transport, and corresponding export taxation of certain products. So the All-Ukrainian Freedom Union will support the bill. But please note the things that concern us as a faction representing the interests of the Ukrainian people.
ParlaMint-UA_2013-11-05-m1.u23	It's a faction of the Ukrainian Company, the Kudra People's Deputy.
ParlaMint-UA_2013-11-05-m1.u24	Please give the floor to the National Deputy of Ukraine, Communist Comrade Marmazov.
ParlaMint-UA_2013-11-05-m1.u25	Please, Comrade Marmazov.
ParlaMint-UA_2013-11-05-m1.u26	Thank you. Bill 2471. De jure, this is bringing legislation into line with the commitments made in joining the European Energy Community, where the concept of export duty is not available, that is, our commitments on entry. In fact, this draft law applies only to the gas of its own production, which is sold outside Ukraine to EU countries. Export duties were introduced when they were allowed to export their own gas abroad, in fact the well owners were getting 80-90 dollars worth of gas, and they were selling over 400. During the year, gas sales amounted to 1.5 - 2 billion cubes. For them, this export duty was introduced at a rate of 35 percent of the value of sales. Now the export duty is proposed to be removed. Well, that can be supported, but provided that the export of the gas of its own production is eliminated, and the cheap gas of its own production will be used for the population and the household needs, which our faction has long insisted on. Therefore, the KPI faction will not support this bill until the export of its own production is cancelled.
ParlaMint-UA_2013-11-05-m1.u27	No one has ever spoken since the Fatherland faction? Please, Ivanchuk, National Deputy.
ParlaMint-UA_2013-11-05-m1.u28	Dear Vladimir Vasilovich, the Fatherskin faction. Well, the purpose of the bill is to bring the country’s legislation into line with the European Union’s legislation, particularly with respect to the implementation of the obligations provided for in the Protocol on Ukraine’s accession to the Treaty establishing the Energy Community. The bill is both Euro-Integrated and the "Fatherland" faction will vote in favour of the first reading of the bill. Thank you.
ParlaMint-UA_2013-11-05-m1.u29	Thank you. People's deputies please sign up for the speech. Please, Party of Regions, national deputy Glazunov.
ParlaMint-UA_2013-11-05-m1.u30	Please give the floor to the People's Deputy Momot.
ParlaMint-UA_2013-11-05-m1.u31	Pass it on, please.
ParlaMint-UA_2013-11-05-m1.u32	Alexander Momot, 27th constituency, Dnipropetrovsk. Dear Vladimir Vasilovich, honourable colleagues, surely this bill needs to be supported, should harmonize its legislation with Europe. The 41st article of the Energy Partnership Agreement requires us to do so. I have one caution that the customs department should monitor the purchases of reverse gas from Slovakia, Poland, Hungary or elsewhere. I'd like a colleague to support the bill.
ParlaMint-UA_2013-11-05-m1.u33	Thank you. The Fatherland faction, the Ilik People's Deputy.
ParlaMint-UA_2013-11-05-m1.u34	Please pass the word to Mikola Catherinechuku.
ParlaMint-UA_2013-11-05-m1.u35	He's handing over Santa Catherine.
ParlaMint-UA_2013-11-05-m1.u36	Mikola Catherinechuk, Fatherland faction, European Party of Ukraine. Of course, the Fatherland faction will support this bill with disgust at the situation we have in the economy and in other social issues, but still moving towards a civilized energy market is our goal. Its transparency, efficiency will directly affect the building of energy independence and strategy, the development of Ukraine's energy market. And that's why I'm convinced that this convergence of views is an opportunity to get a civilized market with the projected consequences of the development of this market. And that's why the "Paternity" faction will support it, with the thought that today most of the political issues, which are related to democracy and transparency of public finances, are disturbing. Thank you for your attention.
ParlaMint-UA_2013-11-05-m1.u37	Freedom Union, National Deputy Leonov.
ParlaMint-UA_2013-11-05-m1.u38	Please pass the word to Ruslan Marcinkov.
ParlaMint-UA_2013-11-05-m1.u39	Pass it on, please.
ParlaMint-UA_2013-11-05-m1.u40	Ruslan Marcinkov, All-Ukrainian Freedom Union. Of course, the "Freedom" faction of the All-Ukrainian Union will support this bill, because this is another step on the road from Moscow and joining the European Community. And today we feel that this bill must be accepted. But today we are concerned about monopolizing the gas market. Today, we are concerned about monopolizing the gas system market. Today, we are concerned about the system of frauds and transgasses that are taking place today in places where there is a frenzy against entrepreneurs, against the inhabitants of our country when they issue technical conditions at excessively high prices. We don't actually have a transparent market for gas supply, gas consumption today. We don't have strong investors coming to us. And we can't say today that there is a clear development in Ukraine today, actually, of this market. However, we believe that today this bill is actually one of the small steps, one of the steps that we need to take to ensure that we have a truly transparent gas market and that we are today a powerful state that will be respected in the European Fellowship and in the family of the free nations of Europe. So the faction of the All-Ukrainian Freedom Union will definitely support the bill. And it urges Parliamentary Collegiate to support this law. Glory to Ukraine!
ParlaMint-UA_2013-11-05-m1.u41	Sergey Kaplin, strike faction." Please.
ParlaMint-UA_2013-11-05-m1.u42	Sergey Kaplin, Vitaly Klitschka Faction, 144 constituency, Poltava City. Our political power, like other opposition partners, will support this bill in order to organize these issues according to international agreements, in line with Ukraine’s international obligations. But, at the same time, we would like to highlight the extremely violent and extremely critical situation in which the entire market today is located, the gas market in Ukraine. We are concerned about unnecessary monopolization. We are concerned about the fact that only a member ticket in the Party of the Regions is sufficient for us to obtain gas in Ukraine. To our conviction, we need to create conditions for free competition in the gas market. We need to limit the income of individual oligarchs who produce Ukrainian gas, including technology violations, to violations of the requirements of current legislation that do not pay taxes and, at the same time, export this gas abroad. We need to have an extremely serious legal, economic and technological discussion on this issue. Each Ukrainian family should be given the opportunity to obtain Ukrainian cheap gas at their home. We must thus ensure the high competitiveness of our domestic gas sector. Similarly, we must do absolutely everything possible to make the extraction of Ukrainian gas a prerequisite for the economic security of our country. So that we don't be held hostage to extremely difficult annual negotiations with the Russian Federation, so that our diplomats don't get killed through their knees and force us to choose a European vector just because we gave all the ancestry to the Ukrainian oligarchs. Similarly, we note the serious problems that exist in Ukraine's "disposals". Today, in enterprises that, for example, belong to the oligarch of Firthash, there has been an increase in mortality, actually in enterprises in the "disposals". There are major violations and observations of environmental legislation, technical regulation. We're going to take care of these problems, we're going to make sure these violations are stopped, and we're going to make sure that Ukraine finally recovers its gas crops, its ancestry. The state can get gas on its own, the state can sell this cheap gas to Ukrainians by itself at 5, by 10 times, and we will not be hostage to these constant Ukrainian-Russian trades when we have to hand over part of Ukraine in order to get more or less cheap gas from abroad. Thank you.
ParlaMint-UA_2013-11-05-m1.u43	The faction of the Ukrainian Company, the national deputy of Baiduk.
ParlaMint-UA_2013-11-05-m1.u44	Please give the floor to the People's Deputy Kilinkarov.
ParlaMint-UA_2013-11-05-m1.u45	Please, the People's Deputy of Kilinkarov.
ParlaMint-UA_2013-11-05-m1.u46	Ladies and gentlemen of the people! The proposals made by my colleague Marmazov are, I believe, very significant. And, of course, the second reading of the bill would have to take them into account. The Communist faction stands ready to support the bill on first reading, but only on first reading, taking into account the comments made by our faction. But I would also like to say that, in order to allow the right to export Ukrainian gas today, we must provide for certain restrictions that would allow for the full availability of domestic gas by Ukrainian consumers today. First of all, it is our citizens and the heat utility, which should be provided exclusively with Ukrainian gas. Second, I would like to say that unfortunately, the Supreme Council has not supported the bill on a single State monitoring system that would allow for the control of the entire process to date, beginning with the extraction, transportation, storage and implementation of such serious goods as Ukrainian gas. I hope that this bill will be registered, and we will be able to control the gas market tightly. Today, of course, the gas market is not clear today, and today, of course, those who are engaged in Ukrainian gas production are receiving more than they are today. This is absolutely unacceptable, especially in the context of an economic crisis. At the cost of Ukrainian gas, about $80 to $90, today, from point "a" to point "b", the gas becomes the price of about $400 per thousand cubic metres. Today, it is simply a crime to speculate on a commodity such as gas in a crisis. It would therefore be very right, but unfortunately, the factions represented in Parliament do not support our initiative to bring these wells back under the control of the State today and to give the State the right to deal today, including with issues such as energy exports. On the first reading, we will support the bill, but if our amendments are not taken into account, the second reading will not give us a single vote from our faction. Thank you.
ParlaMint-UA_2013-11-05-m1.u47	People's Deputy Mosheński, non-factional. Please. You won't, will you? Party of regions, National Deputy Butkovsky.
ParlaMint-UA_2013-11-05-m1.u48	Dear Vladimir Vasilovich, we have seen that this bill is governmental. It's designed very literately and beautifully, and it's also supported by the committee. Our entire faction, the Party of the Regions, will support this bill, because it's already a bit European and we're all going to Europe. I'd like everyone to support this bill. Thank you.
ParlaMint-UA_2013-11-05-m1.u49	Freedom faction, National MP Mirny.
ParlaMint-UA_2013-11-05-m1.u50	Dear Vladimir Vasilovich, distinguished audiences, listeners, and viewers! Do not forget what a serious issue is today. Because that's how we touched the illusions, we touched the monopolizations of the structures that each person has, in one way or another, affect and either make it possible to live better, or worse. We demand that exactly such bills be considered and brought to the hall, that we should launch anyone into a network of lies, anyone on a transgas network, anyone who can create competition and give the opportunity to lower prices that are completely unfair today. Because otherwise, the story of improvement is going to be seen as ironic today, because everyone understands that improvements will only be made by the owners of the hoaxes that are now transporting gas at the price at which they consider it necessary. Because you remember everyone who was a mass of enterprises, what were the medium - pressure gastropods that just took the lie away by force, saying that they would not transport the gas. And now the person who comes from a 200-metre gas pipeline is paying for the transport of gas space numbers just because he doesn't have a medium-pressure gas line. So let's remember this, ladies and gentlemen, and let's ask these questions again and again and put the bills in the hall, because we can't just cut the taxes and at the same time make the situation worse in Ukraine. We don't live for Europe, we live for ourselves. Let us keep that in mind. And so, Vladimir Vasilovich, I'm asking you as the leader of your party, taking into account the fact that only the Party of Regions or the government are passing the bill here, to ask the question that we have a mass of unresolved problems with monopolization in this market, and to put into the room bills that the Freedom faction will support, because these are state-owned bills. Thank you. Glory to Ukraine!
ParlaMint-UA_2013-11-05-m1.u51	Thank you. The faction of the Party of the Regions. The last speaker. Jaroslav Suhi, please.
ParlaMint-UA_2013-11-05-m1.u52	Thank you. Dear colleagues! Of course, Ukraine's membership in the Energy Fellowship has enormous strategic significance for us, and it means, if you want, the survival of Ukraine as a sovereign state. But I'd like to ask Sergio Mikhailovich Czecha. Now, listen to me carefully. You see, when the Ukrainian national MPs are introducing bills in violation of article 27 of the Code of Budgets, i.e. without financial and economic justification, without taking into account, i.e. without calculating the possible changes in the budget, there's more to understand. Although article 91 of the Rules gives us the right to make such bills even without consideration when there is no financial and economic justification. But your bill, you reported it, is being tabled by the government. It's unacceptable. So I call on the session room to support this bill in the first reading, and it is imperative that the government, for the second reading, should provide us with the calculations that the changes to the State Budget will result from the adoption of this bill. And opposition colleagues, who have often peddled this topic recently, that opposition bills are not being tabled, are not being voted for. Dear colleagues, I've told you before, once again, in the Committee on Social Policy and Labour, opposition has introduced bills that would require 783 billion dollars from the budget if they were adopted. Don't you understand that such bills can never be adopted, they can't be voted for, because this is a full budget balance? I find this manic need to destroy the state at all, to destroy the power to gain that power in my own hands. It's wrong, it's not national, think well that you're importing and calculating options. Will you, the opposition, forever and ever sit in opposition and have no intention of coming to power? Then I don't know what you're fighting for. Thus, this bill is and must be adopted in the first reading, because Ukraine's membership in the Energy Fellowship is our insurance in case and in order to achieve Ukraine's energy independence. Thank you.
ParlaMint-UA_2013-11-05-m1.u53	Thank you. Ladies and gentlemen, please finish your local meetings. Prepared for the vote. But don't beat each other up! Come on, I'll give you some time. Have a seat. Have a seat. I'm betting on a draft bill (number 2471a) amending section III, paragraph 9, of the Final Positions Act of Ukraine, "To amend certain legislative acts of Ukraine" (to export energy carriers to member states of the Energy Community) for adoption as a basis. People's deputies, please vote. [[16:41:29]] For 340. Against 0, held – 1, not voted – 63. The factions. A draft Law (No.2079a) on the amendment of article 17 of the Law on Heat Supply is under consideration (as regards the licensing of activities in the production of heat). How would you like to consider this question? Vote with a reduced procedure. Whoever wants the full vote, do not vote in favour of the reduced procedure. [[16:42:26]] For-174 Against 68, held – 10, not voted – 151. Decision taken. The factions. I invite you to report to Deputy Minister of Energy and Coal Industry Sergio Mihajlovich Czecha. And then he'll report back to the Peacekeeper. Please.
ParlaMint-UA_2013-11-05-m1.u54	Honourable Volodymira Vasilovich, distinguished national deputies, has been introduced into your consideration a draft of the Ukrainian Law amending article 17 of the Law on Heat Supply (as regards the licensing of activities in the production of thermal energy). The purpose of the adoption of the law is to define a licensing authority to carry out activities in the field of heat supply by referring to the competence of the National Commission, which regulates national energy, licenses thermal energy production activities at thermal and nuclear power plants. It should be noted that according to article 9, paragraph 42, the Ukrainian Law on the licensing of certain types of agricultural activity is subject to the licensing of thermal energy production, which is defined as a general activity. At the same time, the Ukrainian Heat Supply Act refers to the regulation of tariffs and thermal energy produced at thermal power plants, heat power plants, heat and nuclear power plants and cogeneration plants, facilities using non-traditional or renewable sources. At the same time, the National Energy Regulatory Commission is not authorized to license the production of thermal energy produced by heat and nuclear power plants. The adoption of this law will allow for the removal of the gaps in the legislation governing thermal activities and the improvement of state regulation in the field of heat supply in relation to thermal energy produced at thermal and nuclear power plants. Thank you for your attention. Please support the bill.
ParlaMint-UA_2013-11-05-m1.u55	Thank you. Sit down, we won't ask you any questions this time. A report from the deputy head of the Committee on Fuel and Energy. Alexander Borisovich Mirni, please.
ParlaMint-UA_2013-11-05-m1.u56	Alexander Mirny, the All-Ukrainian Freedom Union. Dear Vladimir Vasilovich, distinguished colleagues! The Committee on Fuel and Energy Complex, Nuclear Policy and Nuclear Security at its meeting reviewed the draft Ukrainian Law on Amendments to Article 17 of the Law on Heat Supply (for licensing of thermal energy production activities) (registration number 2079a) (since 21.05.2013) (imposed by the Cabinet of Ministers of Ukraine). I would like to point out that the Chief Scientific and Experimental Authority, as a result of the first reading of the bill, does not object, I would stress, to the adoption of the bill on the basis. The bill proposes to amend article 17, paragraph 4, of the Law on Heat, according to which a license for economic activity in this area is added to the authority of the National Commission for State regulation in the field of heat supply, if heat is produced at thermal power plants and nuclear power plants. Such changes will allow it to be aligned with the relevant provisions of the Ukrainian Law on the licensing of certain types of agricultural activity. As a result of the discussion, the committee decided to recommend to the Supreme Council of Ukraine the adoption of a draft Ukrainian Law amending article 17 of the Heat Supply Act (as regards the licensing of thermal energy production activities) (Registration number 2079a) in the first reading on the basis and generally as a law. Please support the committee's decision.
ParlaMint-UA_2013-11-05-m1.u57	Thank you. Have a seat. People's deputies, please. Do you want to talk about it? Is it? Is "Freedom" the only one who's wanted? Is it gone? Yes. Please sign up for factions. Please, the Fatherland faction, Vladimir Yavorowski, of Troy.
ParlaMint-UA_2013-11-05-m1.u58	You're right, Vladimir Vasilovich! Yavorovsky, Trinity. But he's asking a lot of questions from Yuri Odarchenko, and I can't say no, he's a Kiev chief. What can I do?
ParlaMint-UA_2013-11-05-m1.u59	Yes, he's an expert! Then let's give him the word.
ParlaMint-UA_2013-11-05-m1.u60	Volodymyr Vasilovich, I want to point out that today's economy in the state doesn't work. Look, before Janukovic came to power, we had 190 billion loans of various kinds. Over the years, we've got another 190 billion credit in his work, and now we're looking at the International Monetary Fund asking us to issue a 15 billion dollar loan -- that's 130 billion dollars. This indicates that the economy in Ukraine does not work at all. But the authorities are drawing attention to what the International Monetary Fund has to say about what needs to be done to raise the tariffs for the population. This usually occurs when you do not want to take responsibility for yourself, but you pay attention to the actions of those who offer you to do so. Vladimir Vasilovich, I think this is a very good law. But it should be noted that licenseing thermal power plants, nuclear power plants, will allow NCRE to verify the cost of these services. But I would like to point out that this is actually a self-certification, and there's no further motivation for us to carry out bills like they were a few months ago when we wrote down 24 billion debt to similar structures. I want to believe that this bill will give authority to the NCRE.
ParlaMint-UA_2013-11-05-m1.u61	Thank you. Party of regions, National Deputy Mikhailo Chechtov.
ParlaMint-UA_2013-11-05-m1.u62	Dear Vladimir Vasilovich, honourable national deputies, the project proposes to amend article 17, paragraph 4, of the Ukrainian Law on Heat Supply, according to which to the authority of the national commission for national regulation in the field of heat supply, the licensing of economic activity in this area is added if heat is produced at thermal power stations and nuclear power plants. Such changes in the law harmonize with the relevant provisions of the Ukrainian Law on the License of Certain Economic Activities. The faction of the Party of the Regions suggests that the session hall support this important bill. Thank you.
ParlaMint-UA_2013-11-05-m1.u63	National MP Orotyuk, Freedom Union.
ParlaMint-UA_2013-11-05-m1.u64	Yuri Orotyuk, the All-Ukrainian Freedom Union. Please pass the word to Ruslan Marcinkov.
ParlaMint-UA_2013-11-05-m1.u65	Please, Ruslan Marcinkov.
ParlaMint-UA_2013-11-05-m1.u66	The "Freedom" faction of the All-Ukrainian Union will support this bill because it is technical. But I want to draw attention to the problems of heating in Ukraine. Today, it is a catastrophic situation with calculations of gas consumed in front of Russia. On the one hand, the Party of Regions and Communists vote on the long-term accounts owed to the state-owned enterprises before the heat supply, and on the other hand, on the 4th of November, Minister of Energy and Coal Industry Azarova Stavitsky claims that the debts of living money to Russia will be repaid by the heat utility companies. That is, the state of heat-community bills, and the local communities and the population have to pay today's living money, which is our money and the money of local self-government. Not to mention that today's lack of understood tariff policy in the state, there is no strategy for the development of the heating sector, the latest novices from our government are banning people from setting up individual heating. And such a draft bill is being drafted by the government today. Instead of thinking today about developing alternative types of heat sources — geothermal waters, pallets, and other fuels. Another question is whether the same solar gas that is allowed today is going to be needed primarily by heating companies and for the population, whether or not it will go to the oligarchs who are going to be used at the expense of people with money. So the faction of the All-Ukrainian Union "Freedom" supports this bill, but we think that policy is criminal today, the government of Azarov. And today, we demand a fundamental review of the strategy for the development of heat supply in Ukraine. Glory to Ukraine!
ParlaMint-UA_2013-11-05-m1.u67	Would you like to take the floor? All of them. I ask you to prepare for the vote. I'm betting on the vote on draft Law 2079a: amending article 17 of the Law on Heat Supply (for licensing of thermal energy production activities), for adoption as a basis and as a whole. People's deputies, please vote. [[16:53:38]] For 280 Against 0, holding back - 26, not voting - 90. Decision taken. The factions. Draft Law No. 2843 is under consideration: Amendments to the Mining Act of Ukraine regarding coal or peat briquettes. How do we view it? Well, I beg your pardon. Vote, national MPs! [[16:54:29]] For 171 Against 63, held – 10, did not vote – 153. Decision taken. The factions. I invite Deputy Minister of Energy and Coal Industry Sergio Mikhailovich Czecha. You have two minutes.
ParlaMint-UA_2013-11-05-m1.u68	Dear Vladimir Vasilovich, distinguished national deputies! A law has been introduced for your consideration. A draft of the Ukrainian Mining Act on coal or peat briquettes has been introduced. The bill provides for amendments to Ukraine’s Mining Law to establish that persons who are covered by articles 43 and 48 of the Ukrainian Mining Law on the free supply of coal to households, as well as after the liquidation or preservation of mining enterprises, employees of such enterprises and pensioners working in mining enterprises can be provided with both coal and peat briquettes, depending on the application of building burning systems. In addition, the supply and delivery of coal to the territory of Kirovograd and Cherkas region is economically inconvenient. Therefore, taking into account the proposed changes in the bill is essential. The bill will ensure that the negative socio-economic effects of the elimination of coal and coal-processing enterprises in the coal sector are overcome and that the public budget can be reduced to eliminate coal and coal-processing enterprises. Please support the bill. Thank you for your attention.
ParlaMint-UA_2013-11-05-m1.u69	Thank you, sit down. I invite you to report to the head of the committee's subcommittee on the fuel and energy complex Victor Ivanovich Turmanov.
ParlaMint-UA_2013-11-05-m1.u70	Dear Vladimir Vasilevich, distinguished colleagues! The Committee of the Supreme Council of Ukraine on the Fuel and Energy Complex, Nuclear Policy and Nuclear Security, at its meeting on 5 June 2013, considered the draft Act amending the Mining Act of Ukraine concerning coal or peat briquettes introduced by the Cabinet of Ministers of Ukraine. This legislative initiative of the Cabinet of Ministers of Ukraine is aimed at providing coal to the recipients, and I would like to stress once again, domestic fuel in the Kirovograd, Chercas region or the former Burro-Coal complex, as well as the socio-economic consequences of the eradication of mining enterprises in the region. To this end, by amending the Mining Act, it is proposed to approve the provision that, following the liquidation or conservation of the mining plant, workers, pensioners who worked in these enterprises may be provided. both free coal and peat briquettes, depending on their home heating systems. The Profile Committee, at its meeting, considered the bill and decided to adopt the bill as a basis. Dear colleagues, since the proposed legislative initiative is more relevant than ever before winter, I also ask you to vote in favour of reducing the drafting time for the second reading bill. Thank you for your attention. She's celebrating the mining effort!
ParlaMint-UA_2013-11-05-m1.u71	Willing to Discuss? Please sign up for factions. The Vitalia Klitschka faction, National MP of Mochkov.
ParlaMint-UA_2013-11-05-m1.u72	Dear Vladimir Vasilovich! Dear National Deputies! I would like to point out that the bill also requires the adoption of a draft Ukrainian Law amending the Ukrainian Tax Code to improve taxation of the category of persons who receive domestic fuel in accordance with the Ukrainian Mining Law. The bill will also ensure that the negative socio-economic effects of the elimination of coal and coal-processing enterprises in the coal-based fuel sector are overcome. In this way, it will be possible to reduce the cost of the State budget for the disposal of coal and coal companies and for the supply of coal in the region of Kirovograd and Cherkas. The Vitalia Klicka faction supports this socially oriented bill. Thank you for your attention.
ParlaMint-UA_2013-11-05-m1.u73	Freedom Union, People's MP Mirny. Please.
ParlaMint-UA_2013-11-05-m1.u74	Alexander Mirny, the All-Ukrainian Freedom Union. Respectable Society! Look what we're gonna do now. Today, we are simply correcting the egregious mistakes that have been made by the adoption of previous laws by calling upon the Supreme Council. I mean, there's a visual example of buttoning and pianism before you, and now we've got our heads: what did we take?Oh, my God! They forgot the VGS, they forgot the quiet ones, they forgot the quiet ones, they forgot the quiet ones. And now we're making amendments. We make laws that we correct before the laws we have passed. No, I understand there's a "Bubka's method" that's been upping its record by an inch. So now, we're first disposing of dozens of categories of citizens who were entitled to the benefits that they had previously provided by law, and then we're returning to them one by one. Well, people are good, come on! This is the quality of the work of the previous Council. So we're going to propose, and finally, we're going to create a working group, we're going to mention everyone by name, we're going to put a bill on the list, and we're going to put a bill where all the torpedoes, all the miners, all the miners, again, the same GHS and so on, and so on and so on and so forth. Because for years after the adoption of previous laws, people have been deprived of aid, and it's like we've saved up, and now we're giving it back to them. Every day is important to a person, every day. And what will we remember tomorrow or the next day? It is clear that Freedom will support these bills. But let's finish this circus. Glory to Ukraine!
ParlaMint-UA_2013-11-05-m1.u75	The Fatherland faction. Who will act? National MP Yavorowski, please.
ParlaMint-UA_2013-11-05-m1.u76	Dear voters, dear fellow national MPs! Vladimir Yavorowski, Trinity, Fatherland. I don't think there's any person in this room who's gonna raise his hand to press that he's holding back, or maybe the scariest if you press a button that he's against. Of course, in the person of the miners of Donetsk and not only Donetsk, but also Western Ukraine, and New Town Volin. Vladimiro Volinsky, I'm sorry, West Ukrainian and Red Town miners, we just have a really huge problem. Ukrainian coal. We used to, uh, sit Yuchim Leonidovich Zviagilski, in whose mine I went down twice, once with him, and see this great man, in a physical sense, walking around this mine. He and I, by the way, went down to the Australian mine (Uhim Leonidovich probably remembers in Australia) and we could compare ours and theirs. Unfortunately, today, it would seem that the Party of Regions is in power today, the Donetsks in power. The Donetsks have captured the entire vertical, from the cleaners, they will soon be driving from Donetsk, from the President to the very bottom. And what other problems did it seem to have to be left with the miners who were delegating, first of all, that they were delegateing this power to you? But you should have worn them! And this is proof that we have freely, so you know, out of the hooves, literally adopted this law, and now we've decided that the miners who are extracting this bloody coal, a large part of the kopanas that are still dying there, in these kopanas, today it turns out that we didn't even foresee to them the free-for-free briquette and the free-for-all, hateful coal that they probably dream of in them, and in their eyes! Because of this, of course, we vote, "Paternity" votes unanimously in favour of this law. But I immediately say that I already predict why. The coal miners and the briquettes will be in some form that has already been halved because the family will be immediately found.
ParlaMint-UA_2013-11-05-m1.u77	Finish up.
ParlaMint-UA_2013-11-05-m1.u78	There will be the dung officials who will also squeeze some money out of this bloody coal. But we will vote for it anyway so that our conscience will be clean.
ParlaMint-UA_2013-11-05-m1.u79	The faction of the Ukrainian Company, National Deputy Gordijenko.
ParlaMint-UA_2013-11-05-m1.u80	The faction of the Company of Ukraine, Sergey Gordijenko. Dear citizens of Ukraine, my fellow countrymen! I would like to tell you that the faction of the Ukrainian Company will support this bill, and let justice be restored that is not available today. But it's a semi-disaster, but it's a major disaster that no one is talking about here today, the faction of the Company of Ukraine would like to draw everyone's attention to the problems of our country at all. In 20 years, this sector has actually been completely destroyed. Today, we can count on our fingers the businesses that work today, including by producing a peat briquette. Today, I would like to say that during the years of this collapse, and these enterprises have generally been added to a list of objects that are not subject to privatization, a completely destroyed and stolen material base. These businesses are deprived of the same peat fields, the same kindregistrations where they would have to mine this peat. There is a small but very successful enterprise in Poltavščina in Orszica – Orsicatorf DP Kyivtorf. Yes, Kyiv, this is the Orgisathorf DP that hasn't worked for many years. Today, government property has a beautiful yard of this company, and there have been licenses and areas for its production. I spoke to the circuit board several times, and if the state doesn't need it, if you've neglected it and it's on its way to Orsica, then at least give it to the local community together and we'll keep it. The answer was unique, and the Fund of State Property was unique.
ParlaMint-UA_2013-11-05-m1.u81	Finish up.
ParlaMint-UA_2013-11-05-m1.u82	Fuel and energy that an enterprise has introduced into a list of objects that are not privatized and therefore cannot be transferred to the territorial community. So the huge giants of metal production could be privatized, and a small peat enterprise could not be passed on to the community.
ParlaMint-UA_2013-11-05-m1.u83	Thank you. Thank you. Igor Miroshnichenko! Don't waste your energy, we'll all be in pain together. Don't be nervous. Beier's going to win today. I beg of you, the People's Deputy of Goncharov, the faction of the Party of the Regions.
ParlaMint-UA_2013-11-05-m1.u84	Vladimir Vasilovich, distinguished national MPs, changes to the Mining Law proposed by Viktor Ivanovich Turmanov, have a social orientation. After the mining industry is closed, pensioners and those who worked there are entitled to free coal production. But what must be changed? Instead of coal, they ask for peat briquettes. And depending on how the fuel system of the house is adapted. In addition, I remind you that the supply of coal to regions such as Cherkasy and Kirovograd is economically inconvenient. That's why the Party of Regions supports both the Cabinet of Ministers and decides on the social direction. And I propose to support this bill.
ParlaMint-UA_2013-11-05-m1.u85	Thank you. All those who wish to speak? Please prepare for the vote. I am voting on the draft Law (No. 2843) amending the Mining Act of Ukraine to provide coal or peat briquettes for adoption and shorten the time to prepare for second reading on the committee. Please vote on the basis. [[17:10:01]] For 334 Against 0. It's been held down to one. They didn't vote 63. Decision taken. The factions. Prepare for second reading. The draft Act (No. 2857) on the amendment to article 6 of the Ukrainian Act "On the order of departure from Ukraine and entry into Ukraine of Ukrainian citizens" (for obtaining foreign passports by citizens of the age of admission) is under consideration. What are some suggestions for consideration? Please vote in favour of the shorter procedure, Freedom request. I can hear voices coming from here. [[17:10:56]] For 169 Against 73. It's been held up to 12. There was no vote – 147. Decision taken. The factions. Region Party - 161, Parenthood - 0, Vitalia Klitka - 0, Freedom - 0, Companies - 0, non-fractional - 8. I invite you to report to the Minister of Defense, Paul Valentinovich Lebedev. Please report.
ParlaMint-UA_2013-11-05-m1.u86	Dear Volodymira Vasilovich, the distinguished national deputies of Ukraine! The bill (registration number 2857) has been drafted to remove restrictions on the right to passport of a Ukrainian citizen to leave abroad for citizens of the age of recruitment, which according to the Ukrainian Act on Military Duty and Military Service is subject to an application for military service. According to article 33 of the Ukrainian Constitution, the Ministry of Defence guarantees freedom of movement, free choice of residence, the right to leave the territory freely, with the exception of restrictions imposed by law. In the context of the transition to the recruitment of the Armed Forces and other military formations by contract, the number of Ukrainian citizens who are eligible for military service is gradually decreasing. The available conscriptive resources of some 1.2 million people in the military are able to provide the Armed Forces and other military formations with high - quality youth completing the mission to the military. The changes will lead to a substantial reduction in the burden on military commissioners who provide help on the passport of a Ukrainian citizen to go abroad and make it impossible for them to commit corruption. During the drafting of the bill, the Ministry of Defence took into account that, according to the law in force, members of the military have the right to leave Ukraine free of charge and enter Ukraine, and citizens who may never be members of the military service are entitled to such a right.
ParlaMint-UA_2013-11-05-m1.u87	Let me finish. Finish up.
ParlaMint-UA_2013-11-05-m1.u88	In line with the conclusion of the Supreme Council Committee on Foreign Affairs, the bill is recommended for adoption by the Supreme Council of Ukraine as a whole as a law. The implementation of the bill does not require additional budget spending. Please be supportive. Thank you for your attention.
ParlaMint-UA_2013-11-05-m1.u89	Thank you. Have a seat. The account. Jury Romanovich Miroshnichenko, deputy head of the committee, is invited. Please.
ParlaMint-UA_2013-11-05-m1.u90	Thank you, Vladimir Vasilovich. Honorary voters, honourable colleagues, are proposing a draft Act amending article 6 of the Ukrainian Act "On the order of departure from Ukraine and entry into Ukraine of Ukrainian citizens" (registration No. 2857). The bill is designed to remove restrictions on obtaining a Ukrainian citizen’s passport to go abroad to eligible citizens, who, in accordance with Ukraine’s Law on Military Duty and Military Service, are subject to an application for military service. The bill proposes to exclude from the Ukrainian Act "On the order of departure from Ukraine and entry into Ukraine of Ukrainian citizens the position that Ukrainian citizens may be temporarily restricted to the right to leave abroad if they are subject to an application for military service until the issue of suspension is resolved. Dear colleagues, you know the minister has just reported that Ukraine is moving into a contractual army. Accordingly, terms such as term service and enlistment service become irrelevant. It is therefore proposed that the restrictions on the rights of citizens that have existed to this day be lifted. Thus, all Ukrainian citizens, regardless of age, will be in equal conditions for obtaining a foreign passport. The Committee on Foreign Affairs has considered this legislative initiative and recommends that the Supreme Council approve this law on a basis and in general, that it adopt this law immediately, without second reading. The Committee, our colleagues from the Committee on Budgets have shown us that the adoption of this law will not affect the spending of the budget, so there is no limit to the approval of this law. Please support this legislative initiative as a whole. Thank you.
ParlaMint-UA_2013-11-05-m1.u91	Thank you. Do you want to talk about it? Is it? Please sign up for factions. Please, Company of Ukraine, National Deputy of Kilinkarov.
ParlaMint-UA_2013-11-05-m1.u92	Please pass the word to Alexei Igor Viktorovich.
ParlaMint-UA_2013-11-05-m1.u93	Pass it on, please.
ParlaMint-UA_2013-11-05-m1.u94	Dear colleagues! In view of the fact that the Ukrainian army is now in the process of recruiting the Armed Forces exclusively by contract and the mandatory appeal of Ukrainian citizens to the military service is cancelled, the Communist faction is voting in favour of the bill. At the same time, we need to realize that choosing a contractual form of service in modern Ukrainian conditions is not a step forward, unfortunately, but a banal lack of funding in the state for the full financing of the Armed Forces. To be honest, there is no military force in Ukraine today capable of protecting it and actually carrying out the tasks that the Armed Forces are facing. All the Ukrainian army has is a Soviet heritage that has been morally and physically obsolete in 22 years. No new weapons are purchased, not even in Ukrainian manufacturing. We have generals today far more than regular soldiers. So, really, breaking a comedy with a general appeal makes no sense, nor does it make any sense for young youths of the age to make a foreign passport. Thank you for your attention.
ParlaMint-UA_2013-11-05-m1.u95	Victor Chumak, Vitaly Klicka Faction, please.
ParlaMint-UA_2013-11-05-m1.u96	Victor Chumak, 214 constituency, city of Kiev, Dniprovsky district, political party, Vitalia Klicka. Dear Vladimir Vasilovich! Dear National Deputies! The impact advocates the adoption of the draft law, because it clearly simplifies the lives of Ukrainian citizens of the age of conscription and helps, first of all, reduce corruption around a sufficiently sensitive issue for Ukrainians, namely getting a foreign passport. As has been said here, the transition to the contractual army, although not entirely military and not entirely contractual, makes it a rule to restrict the issuance of such foreign passports to young people who are subject to an appeal foolish. Moreover, the existence of this restriction was a fairly serious corruption in the activities of passport tables or migration services. We support this bill and we urge it to accept it. Thank you.
ParlaMint-UA_2013-11-05-m1.u97	Thank you. Freedom Union, National Deputy Leonov.
ParlaMint-UA_2013-11-05-m1.u98	Please pass the word to Alexander Oxenthyovich Shevchenk.
ParlaMint-UA_2013-11-05-m1.u99	Please, National Deputy Chevchenko.
ParlaMint-UA_2013-11-05-m1.u100	Alexander Shevchenko, the All-Ukrainian Freedom Union. I would like to draw your attention to the fact that the existing law on the order of departure from Ukraine and entry into Ukraine of Ukrainian citizens is discriminatory. The point is that it contradicts the Constitution of Ukraine, which envisions equality of citizens in rights and freedom of movement throughout the country. In fact, the law suggested that persons from 16 years of age or older who did not serve in the army were potential criminals. This view of people is one of totalitarian regimes. And what the Supreme Council is about to make changes to this law today is to be hailed as a fairly democratic step. And not because he said they went to the contractual army, but because, in fact, justice is being restored, equality in the rights of Ukrainian citizens, especially men. Therefore, the All-Ukrainian Union of Freedom supports this bill and will vote for it. Thank you for your attention.
ParlaMint-UA_2013-11-05-m1.u101	The Fatherland faction, National Deputy Mikola Tomenko, please.
ParlaMint-UA_2013-11-05-m1.u102	Dear colleagues, I think we're not just bringing this into line with reality, because in Ukraine the last appeal, I hope, and the final decision will be made, and the young people who called for the fall will be the last, and the rest will form a contractual professional army. In fact, it was an apologetic error in the bill because who was interested in who people were referring to when this rule was in force in some military units for a few days in order to understand and issue this advice unhappyly so that they could then get a passport to travel abroad or with their family or family. I think I've relived my previous life when I've been on a lot of backgrounds for a Ukrainian citizen, and the more evidence, the better the government car worked. So I also support the committee's position that we should vote on the basis and, in general, correct this error. But one more moment is very important. When we all talk joyfully here about the transition to a contractual army, we must understand that we have no idea, we have no understanding of the financing of this contractual army, the system of work of the Ukrainian professional army. I'll tell you that as long as the army and the ministry are involved in the sale of land and real estate, there will be no army in Ukraine. I am absolutely convinced that these functions should be the functions of completely different institutions of power. The entire land must long be, military, handed over to local authorities, must be handed over to other authorities, and those working in the army must be engaged in military training, not in land or property sales. And we need to stop using young people in election parties. Today it started a campaign that the heads of the district administrations are fighting, who will have more fascists, because the historical reconstruction that they're doing right now, and they're inviting the President, they're gathering how many Germans there are and how many Soviet soldiers, and they're using the army to show how they're fighting the fascists. Friends, we're fighting for the Ukrainian army, not the fascists!
ParlaMint-UA_2013-11-05-m1.u103	Thank you. The faction of the Party of Regions, the minute, the National Deputy of Popescu,
ParlaMint-UA_2013-11-05-m1.u104	Thank you. The faction of the Party of the Regions. Dear colleagues, I want to remind you that our party has always, since its creation, stood up for a transitional professional army. So in new conditions, when the collective principle is being implemented on a contractual basis, it will be appropriate to take into account the 24th article of the Constitution, which clearly states that no restrictions or pressures are allowed by any sign, and it is necessary to move on to arbitrary systems -- and allow our citizens to obtain foreign passports for all. This will be even more relevant when signing the Association Agreement, because after signing this Agreement we will also move on to visa liberalisation and the availability of a foreign passport will allow our citizens to move freely across Europe. Since this is the programming principle of our party, we're going to vote in favour and we're going to vote both on the basis and in general. Thank you.
ParlaMint-UA_2013-11-05-m1.u105	Thank you. Let's move on to making a decision. Please sit down and prepare for the vote. I am voting on the draft Law 2857 amending article 6 of the Ukrainian Act "On the order of departure from Ukraine and entry into Ukraine of Ukrainian citizens" (for obtaining foreign passports by citizens of the age of appeal) for adoption as a basis and as a whole. People's deputies, please vote. [[17:25:13]] For 331, Against 0. It's been held down to two. They didn't vote 69. Decision taken. The factions. All the factions voted. The draft Act (No. 2586a) amending article 6 of the Ukrainian Law on State Defence Orders (relations in the planning and design of defence orders) is under consideration. How do we view it? I'll bet you a reduced vote. [[17:26:06]] For-166 Against 75, held – 9, not voted – 151. Decision taken. The factions. Reported to the First Deputy Minister for Economic Development and Trade, Maksutta Anatoly Arkadyovich. Two minutes, please.
ParlaMint-UA_2013-11-05-m1.u106	Dear Head, distinguished national MPs! Your point is to propose a draft Act amending article 6 of the Ukrainian Law on State Defence Order. In Ukraine, a state-owned concert called Ucrobanprom, which together with the Cabinet of Ministers of Ukraine is the subject of public property management in the defence and industrial complex. One hundred and thirty-four defense companies have been transferred to the Ucrobanprom State Concert. In this regard, there is a need to accept the State’s proposals for the performance of the defence assignment with the national concert. This rule is provided for in the bill, which is before you, by making appropriate changes to article 6 of the Ukrainian Law on State Defence Order. The adoption of Ukraine's draft law will allow for the regulation of the relationship in the field of defence procurement between government contractors and the state-owned firm Ucroborprom, which will enhance the efficiency of the company's activities and the execution of state defence orders. In view of what we have said, we propose to adopt the bill as a basis and generally as a law. Thank you for your attention.
ParlaMint-UA_2013-11-05-m1.u107	Thank you, sit down. I ask the first deputy chairman of the committee, Viktor Josephovich Razwadowski.
ParlaMint-UA_2013-11-05-m1.u108	Dear National Deputies! Dear Vladimir Vasilovich! The Committee of the Supreme Council of Ukraine on National Security and Defence at its meeting on September 4, this year, discussed the draft Act on Amendments to Article 6 of the Ukrainian Law on State Defence Orders (on Planning and Defence Ordering Relations) (registration No. 2586a) (since 12.07.2013). The bill is intended to provide the State concert "Ucrobornprom" as an authorized operator for the administration of state-owned property in a defence and industrial complex of authorizations to agree on proposals for the performance of defence tasks. In accordance with current legislation, public contracting authorities agree with the Ministry of Defence and with the central executive authorities, whose management is the business of the defence and industrial complex, the proposals for the development of new weapons, military technology and military weapons and their components, and the modernization of the marked defence assignment product in order to avoid duplication of such work. In accordance with the Ukrainian Act "On the characteristics of the management of public property objects" in the defence and industrial complex of the Ucrobornprom State Concert was defined by the authorized authority of the management of state-owned property in the defence and industrial complex, and by the decree of the Cabinet of Ministers of Ukraine on the establishment of the Ucrobanprom State Concert in the administration, it is logical to transfer the business and spheres of the administration of the Ministry of Defence and the Ministry of Industry to the administration of industrial policy. The chief scientific and expert office of the Supreme Council of Ukraine believes that the bill can.
ParlaMint-UA_2013-11-05-m1.u109	Finish up.
ParlaMint-UA_2013-11-05-m1.u110	The national deputies of Ukraine, members of the committee, after discussing the bill, decided by majority to recommend to the Supreme Council of Ukraine the results of the first reading to adopt the bill as a basis and as a whole as a law. Thank you for your attention.
ParlaMint-UA_2013-11-05-m1.u111	Thank you. Have a seat. Please sign up for a faction discussion. Please, Party of Regions, National Deputy Zac. People's deputy Chechetov.
ParlaMint-UA_2013-11-05-m1.u112	Dear Volodymyr Vasilovich, distinguished national MPs, we are now really consolidatingly considering the issue professionally, strictly professionally, postponing, as they say, the arches of politics. And that's what Parliament does. I also propose this bill, which is very important and very relevant, to vote on professional grounds. Thank you.
ParlaMint-UA_2013-11-05-m1.u113	Thank you. The faction of the Ukrainian Company, the national deputy of Dzardanov.
ParlaMint-UA_2013-11-05-m1.u114	The distinguished presiding, respected colleagues, would support the Communist faction because it hoped that order would be put in place in the defence complex. [[B in m in s a l in]] The most important thing that's happening today is in the defense complex. There was a CDC defence department at the KPSS and Soviet authorities. This department controlled all defense orders, financing, and technology schedules. The defence companies built a semi-cities plant, the city of Nikolayev. The factories built a social sphere. What's going on today? Everything that was built under Soviet power has been destroyed. It's also a defence company, it's a radar company, it's two-thirds of military units. What's the Department of Defense doing today? I have the answers. Only 4 and a half million funded the Ukrainian cruiser, order 1164. Who will decide the fate of this cruiser? Who will decide the fate of the 16-billion-dollar-ordered corvette and be established by the President of Ukraine? No one is responsible for this. The Ministry of Defence, Ucrobronprom, almost helps pay, but there are no orders from the Ministry of Defence in our businesses. In our Communist Party, Peter Simonenko and Igor Alekseyev are engaged in the defence complex. Who's in charge of the Freedom Defense Complex, UDARE, Fatherland? We'll never make peace if we don't learn to run the defence complex. Thank you.
ParlaMint-UA_2013-11-05-m1.u115	Hit Vitalia Calla, National MP Rosenko.
ParlaMint-UA_2013-11-05-m1.u116	Please pass the word to Sergey Kaplin.
ParlaMint-UA_2013-11-05-m1.u117	Please, Sergey Kaplin.
ParlaMint-UA_2013-11-05-m1.u118	Dear voters, listeners, colleagues! I'd like to hear that the Communists will vote in favour of this bill or not? Here's the main intrigue. You know, I'd also like to thank the Secretary of Defense for coming and bringing bills to the Supreme Council Hall. But, Mr. Secretary, as well as the Deputy Secretary of State, would you please tell me what you're bringing here? The Cabinet of Ministers is forgotten. What are you dealing with this Crocobanprom, like a written bag? You've made a decision about the creation of the Ministry of Industrial Policy -- let the Ministry of Prompolitics deal with these issues. You've written down 900 million bracelets over the course of the year -- once, you've allowed 50 billion dollars of government guarantees -- two, you're running it into the mobilization reserve system in case of war, which is completely unacceptable and nonsensical. You're an organization, you're the statutory authority that gives authority to the actual Ministry. I would like us to start a new discussion once and for all today without making that decision. Croatprom has no right to be in the system of state bodies and has no right to direct, especially defence policy. This is about one billion dollars a year for a defense order. Who told you that the companies that are now enrolling in Ucroborprom, and from which you collect every 20 percent of the profits, are an exclusive, comprehensive list of enterprises that are meant to ensure the security of our country? We need to put order in this area. We need to open up opportunities for free competition. They've created a pocket company and they're robbing the state. It's unacceptable. Our political power will vote in favour of similar documents, bills, only when the ministers of the Cabinet of Ministers of Ukraine give a clear program written by professionals, representatives of enterprises, those 135 enterprises, how the Ukrainian military and industrial complex is to be developed. So we can get back at each other.
ParlaMint-UA_2013-11-05-m1.u119	Thank you. This will be an insult to the national MP, Yavorovsky. Please.
ParlaMint-UA_2013-11-05-m1.u120	Vladimir Yavorowski, Fatherland, Troyshina. Dear colleagues, it's become quite obvious, I think, that even today the blind sees how power behaves with the most important, perhaps state-defense structure -- the defense forces of Ukraine. Would you look at what happened? Rats run in the budget, hungry, thin, unhappy, and there's not a penny to pay either to the medics or to the teachers or to the pensioners. Instead, they're talking about creating a professional army. For what money? Who will go to serve in this professional army for a pitiful penny, without flats, without a uniform that the army does not have to this day? Instead, they declare that they are in connection with the transition to a professional army, and they will recruit only 8,000 conscripts. You imagine what a very clear plan to destroy the defence force of Ukraine. We went through it, it was in 1918 -- and we lost the state. That's what they're leading to. I want to say one more thing, given the opportunity. We are today, today defense ministers are changing, literally, so much faster than calendar leaves. We had, indeed, the fine Minister of Defense of Morozov, the first, we had the Soviets and we had Anatolia Grizzenka, maybe those people who really cared about being a professional, kind, good army in Ukraine. Today you'll see what's going on: arresting the deputy head of the General Staff, inventing a piece of paper. Who's doing this? It's your power! Why are you doing all this? The Deputy Head of the Security Service is changing, the governors are changing. This is the idea of changing Nosal, which Interpol was looking for a few years ago, which is now leading the Lviv region, the patriotic, normal Lviv region. Once again, Interpol was looking for him the other day. What is happening in today’s country? Society, we're talking about armament for the army today. You know, there's a general in the Yagottin district, in a smelly village, who repairs rifles, repairs cannons, repairs tanks, and sells them abroad. That's why it's a black hole.
ParlaMint-UA_2013-11-05-m1.u121	Thank you. Have a seat. People's Deputy Orotyuk, Faction of Freedom. You've got a minute. And the impolite then the minute, and we'll make the decision.
ParlaMint-UA_2013-11-05-m1.u122	Yuri Orotyuk, the All-Ukrainian Freedom Union. I would like to point out that the adoption of this bill is unacceptable to both the majority and the minority. For most people, this bill cannot be approved because it does not have a visa from the Ministry of Professional Affairs, the Ministry of Prompolitics. And for the opposition, it can't be very easy to vote for, because what's happening at General Headquarters today is the classic Stalinic pogrom of the Ukrainian army. And what's going on in the Ucrobanprom is a classic Danish robbery. I want to remind you, if this law had been approved in 2010, it could have been voted for, but the work of Minprompolitics has now been restored, and it is the central authority in this area. What is happening? The Minprompolitans took 125 businesses, and now they're dispossessing. This is the first step towards state raiding, to stealing 120 businesses. What's going on today? Croatprom in three years of his reign, except that he paid 20 percent of the taxes to all defence companies, except that he's been involved in dozens of corruption and international scandals, except that most of the workers in the defence industry today have debts and do not get wages, is the only achievement he's been led by another Donetsk manager, top manager of Rinat Ahmtova. And it's clear that this is a step.
ParlaMint-UA_2013-11-05-m1.u123	Finish up.
ParlaMint-UA_2013-11-05-m1.u124	This bill is definitely not allowed. Glory to Ukraine!
ParlaMint-UA_2013-11-05-m1.u125	Please, People's Deputies. You've got a minute.
ParlaMint-UA_2013-11-05-m1.u126	Thank you. Dear Chairman, dear colleagues, I am not a supporter of the Ucrobanprom concert, and I have passed a bill on his elimination, and therefore I do not understand why there is such a discussion on such emotions. If you want to eliminate, let us make and make decisions. But I want to say that as long as this concert is in operation, it is incumbent upon it to accept a state defense order, for only the management of this concert knows the state of the business in which there is an export order at this time. I want to let you all know that the state defense order is not more than 5 percent of the defense orders. Therefore, it is important to consider: Is it now possible for an enterprise to produce one or the other, and is it possible for an enterprise to be able to account for everything at present? So we have to agree with the concert as long as it exists. Thank you.
ParlaMint-UA_2013-11-05-m1.u127	Thank you. Let's move on to making a decision. I'm asking the people's deputies to prepare for the vote. End the meetings, you have to vote. I'm betting on the vote on draft Law No. 2586a: amending article 6 of the Ukrainian Law on State Defence Order (relations in the planning and design of defence orders) for adoption as a basis. To be accepted as a basis, please vote. [[17:42:21]] For 217 Against it, 92. We're holding on to six. There was no vote: 79. The decision is not taken. The factions. There is a suggestion that this law be sent to the committee so that they can still work with him for a second reading, because the committee made a proposal for adoption as a whole. I propose that this law be sent to the committee for re-reading, that it be prepared. Please vote for the people's deputies. [[17:43:10]] For 217 Against it is 85. We're holding on to seven. There was no vote — 86. The decision is not taken. The factions. The three opposition factions did not vote, the 170th Region Party, the 29th Company, the 18th non-fractional. Why are you so happy, huh? [[B in m in s a l in]] We continue our work for 15 minutes, and then we'll go to the hospital for the Shaktar. Do we have a deal? Let's take a look at the ratification issue. [[B in m in s a l in]] I told you. The law has been rejected, which we have only considered, indeed. The draft Law 0030, on the ratification of the Treaty between Ukraine and the Republic of India on mutual legal assistance in civil and commercial matters, is under consideration. How do we view it? [[B in m in s a l in]] please vote in favour of the summary procedure. [[17:44:43]] For 172 Why don't we listen to the reporter and vote after the ratification? Is everyone all right? Please report to the First Deputy Minister of Justice, Emilianov Inna Ivanovna. Please.
ParlaMint-UA_2013-11-05-m1.u128	Thank you. Dear Vladimir Vasilovich, distinguished national deputies of Ukraine! You have before you the draft Law on the Ratification of the Treaty between Ukraine and the Republic of India on mutual legal assistance in civil and commercial matters. This law was signed on behalf of Ukraine on December 10, 2012. As this treaty becomes effective, legal grounds will be created for effective cooperation between the courts and other competent authorities regarding the provision of legal aid in civil and commercial matters. I would like to point out in a practical way that, to date, there are international legal instruments between our countries, such as the Convention on receiving evidence abroad in civil matters and the Convention on Service abroad in civil and commercial matters, but on enforcement. The mutual determination and implementation of decisions today between our countries is not settled. And according to the terms of the treaty, the contractual parties will recognize and enforce decisions that have gained legal power, decisions in civil and commercial matters, and criminal matters in part of the money. The central authority, under this treaty, is defined on both sides by the Ministry of Justice. Ladies and gentlemen, please support this law and accept it both as a basis and as a whole. Thank you.
ParlaMint-UA_2013-11-05-m1.u129	Thank you. May I put it to a vote? [[B in m in s a l in]] I'll bet you a vote. I'm asking for the attention of the people's deputies. I am voting on the draft Law (0030) on the ratification of the Treaty between Ukraine and the Republic of India on mutual legal assistance in civil and commercial matters for adoption as a whole. People's deputies, please vote. [[17:47:08]] For 317 Against 0. We're holding on to one. No vote -- 72. Decision taken. The factions. Ladies and gentlemen, the draft Law (No. 0037) on the ratification of the Agreement between the Cabinet of Ministers of Ukraine and the Government of the Italian Republic on commercial shipping is under consideration. Can we put a draft ratification to the vote? I am betting on the draft Law (No. 0037) on the ratification of the Agreement between the Cabinet of Ministers of Ukraine and the Government of the Italian Republic on commercial shipping for adoption as a whole. People's deputies, please vote. [[17:48:12]] For 321 Decision taken. The factions. All factions voted. The draft Law on Ratification of the Agreement between the Government of Ukraine and the Government of the Republic of India on Scientific and Technological Cooperation is under consideration. Can I put a draft law on the ratification of the vote? I bet. Please. How will we view it? Short-term? Vote? I am betting on the draft Law (No. 0041) on the ratification of the Agreement between the Government of Ukraine and the Government of the Republic of India on scientific and technological cooperation for adoption as a whole. People's deputies, please vote. [[17:49:26]] For 319, Against 0. Hold on to 0. Not a vote – 71. Decision taken. The factions. Dear National Deputies! Faction leaders have heard from the Conciliation Council of the Committees that we do not consider projects on parliamentary hearing recommendations from week to week. Let's take these questions off, here are four of these projects, let's look at them. Do you have a deal? I think the committees have prepared and we have the opportunity, trusting the committees, to accept these recommendations. The draft Resolution (3308) on Parliamentary Hearing Recommendations on "Contemporary state, ways and prospects for health reform" is under consideration. May I vote? I am voting on draft regulation 3308 on Parliamentary Hearing Recommendations on "Contemporary Status: Ways and Perspectives of Health Reform in Ukraine" for adoption as a basis and as a whole. People's deputies, please vote. Don't you? To withdraw the vote. To withdraw the vote. [[B in m in s a l in]] Based on what? I'm putting draft regulation 3308 on the ground. Let's all vote, and then let the committee make a proposal. Vote on the ground. [[17:51:49]] For 295 Against 0. We're holding on to one. There was no vote — 92. Decision taken. The factions. A draft Decree (2084a) on Parliamentary hearing recommendations for the recovery and rest of children and young people is under consideration. May I put it to a vote? I am voting on the draft Resolution (2084a) on the Recommendations of Parliamentary Hearings on the Health and Recreation of Children and Young People for Adoption as a Basis and As a Overall. People's deputies, please vote. [[17:52:53]] For 326 Against - 0, held - 0, did not vote - 63. Decision taken. The factions. All factions voted. The draft Decree (3412) on Parliamentary Hearing Recommendations on the State of Human Rights in Ukraine is under consideration. Last name? People's deputy Haydosh. Haydosh? Geidosh, yes.
ParlaMint-UA_2013-11-05-m1.u130	Istvan Haydos, faction of the Party of the Regions. Dear Vladimir Vasilovich, I ask that draft Decree 3412 be laid solely on the ground because it does not include all the proposals.
ParlaMint-UA_2013-11-05-m1.u131	There's a proposition on the ground. I'm putting in a draft Resolution (3412) on Parliamentary Hearing Recommendations on "The State of Human Rights in Ukraine" for adoption as a basis. People's deputies, please vote. [[17:54:30]] For 325 For 325. Against 0. Hold on to 0. No vote, 63. Decision taken. The factions. The draft Decree (No 3413) on Parliamentary Hearing Recommendations on "Ukrainian Labour Migration: Status, Problems and Ways to Solve It" is under consideration. May I put it to a vote? On the basis and in general. I'm betting on the vote, on the draft Resolution (3413) on Parliamentary Hearing Recommendations on "Ukrainian Labour Migration: Status, Problems and Ways of Resolution" for adoption as a basis and as a whole. [[17:55:43]] For 318 Against 0, held – 1, not voted – 66. Decision taken. And we have three decisions left for today. They go from week to week, too. These draft decrees are being considered, a draft decree amending and establishing the boundaries of Yalta of the Autonomous Republic of Crimea. How will we consider this question? I ask who supports the reduced procedure, please vote. We have 20 minutes left. You'll be speaking, we'll be looking. How's that? [[17:56:31]] For-164 On the contrary, 8 / 8 It's held up to five. There was no vote — 130. Decision taken. I invite you to report to the Vice-President of the Committee on State Building and Local Self-Government, Oleg Dmitrovitch Paraskiwa. We'll do everything by the book, yeah! Sit down! Honestly, he says, "I'm asking you to take that question down, because I'm already deputizing." Ladies and gentlemen, I see everyone's set up. I declare the evening meeting of the Supreme Council closed. Thanks for the job. Tomorrow at 10 o'clock, we'll continue our work.
