ParlaMint-UA_2013-11-06-m0.u1	Good morning, distinguished national MPs! Visitors to the Supreme Council of Ukraine! People's deputies, please prepare for registration. Please turn on the "Race" system. [[10:00:56]] There were 375 national deputies registered in the hall. The morning session of the Supreme Council of Ukraine is open. Dear National Deputies! 70 years ago, on November 6, 1943, after heavy bloodshed, Soviet troops liberated the German - Fascist invaders from the capital of Ukraine, the city of Kiev. [[Applause]] Respectable compatriots! Accept the warm greetings of this glorious date! We refer separately to our dear veterans of the Great Homeland War, the heroes of the front and the back. A Ground Scroll and Thank You for Winning! For your unbreakable power of spirit, for your unwavering courage, your self - devotion, and your high heroism! We wish each of you good health, peace, good and happiness! Honor and glory! Let us once again applaud our veterans, the victorious warriors, the heroes of the front and back and all our fellow countrymen with the 70th anniversary of the liberation of the capital of Ukraine. [[Applause]] Dear colleagues, today at 12 o'clock, the Chinese honor the memory of the liberators of the city of Kiev. We'll do it today at 12 o'clock for five minutes. Yeah, right? Dear national deputies, in accordance with article 25 of the Rules, we have 30 minutes on Wednesday for the national MPs to make proposals, announcements, statements, and messages. Therefore, I would like to ask the national deputies to sign up for the performance. Please. The faction of the Party of the Regions. Please, National Deputy Alexander Kuzmuk.
ParlaMint-UA_2013-11-06-m0.u2	Dear compatriots! 200 steps from the session room is a monument, a monument with words of gratitude and grief to General Vatutina of the Ukrainian people. [[Applause]] In the direction of your soldiers, the commander of the First Ukrainian Front said, "There's Kiev, there's a lot of suffering land. There's our roots." And his soldiers understood well, the liberation of Kiev is a great victory in the future. And Kyiv was heroically released. Only 20 days later, at the Tehran Conference, three leaders of the great nations agreed on the southern, southwest, and western borders of Ukraine, and Ukraine became a member of the United Nations, its founder. And then there was Dniprovsko-Karpatska, Crimea, East Crimea, Lvivsko-Sandomirska Operation and the completed collapse of the fascists in Ukraine. General Watutin, guided by his soldiers on the shore of Dniper, said, "Our mothers are there, our sisters are there." His sister’s soldiers were both in Georgia, Belarus, Armenia, and Uzbekistan. But they all united one thing — to preserve the Fatherland, to break the fascist, and not to let him go any further. Glory to the only Ukraine! Glory be to the victorious people!
ParlaMint-UA_2013-11-06-m0.u3	National Deputy Igor Jeremeyev. Let's have a word with you.
ParlaMint-UA_2013-11-06-m0.u4	Dear Head, please pass the word to the People's Deputy.
ParlaMint-UA_2013-11-06-m0.u5	Pass it on, please.
ParlaMint-UA_2013-11-06-m0.u6	Dear Volodymira Vasilovich, distinguished colleagues, distinguished voters, October 28th was the year when people elected us to the higher legislative body of the state. Many of us senior officials have begun or are about to finish reporting for their work, for the commitments we have made. I also conducted six reports in the areas, preparing reports in the villages. As you can see, we are non-fractional deputies, on behalf of whom I speak today, we are not often in this rostrum, of course, except for individuals. Having a great deal of experience working in public authorities, local self-government, I didn't expect to see so much cynicism in the walls of Parliament, so many kinds of manipulations from which ordinary people simply, sorry for the rude word, twist. It is very difficult to explain to people why four times they failed to vote for the organization of the Pension Reform Act? Why is there no free supply of drugs for those who are guaranteed it? Why are child - care costs not paid? And even for the funeral of the dead? And that's why I could count for a long time. But the main thing is not form, the main thing is content. And the point is, people hate the Supreme Council, we mean we're deputies. This is evidenced by ratings of people being interviewed for trust in the Supreme Council. And I don't know how anyone does it, and it hurts me to hear it. Why is that? But because you don't go anywhere, there's obstacles everywhere. Tell me, maybe we've decided that people can easily form an inheritance? Or quickly get a document for the sale of your own property? Of course not. This must be demonstrated in such a way that the house that people build with their own hands, hard work, in the event of the death of one of the households and the householders, would have to be bought as a foreigner. In villages where there's no gas and there's no prospects for it, there's zero. In order to obtain the approval of an archer, it is necessary to pay between 1800 and 2,000 dollars per kilowatt. And it's only by permission, practically by air. And the materials, the work, the project. It's practically 15 kilowatts to pay 45,000 dollars. Where can farmers afford such funds? And how many problems do manufacturers have? In order to register land leases, first, as the people say, "voluntarily" you have to go to the so-called legal support fund of tenants and tenants and pay no and no dues. I'd like the law enforcement to hear about this. So for what will people respect us? Is it possible that someone has been called to account on the initiative? No, I'm not. I'm against it.
ParlaMint-UA_2013-11-06-m0.u7	Finish up.
ParlaMint-UA_2013-11-06-m0.u8	I'm against completely criticizing the authority of any branch, because the general authority has nothing good in it. I am for not to silence the truth, for it is a great sin before men and before all of us. Dear Vladimir Vasilovich, I ask you to give the task of monitoring the most painful points and, of course, to respond to them. Please, don't go, dear colleagues, to the screams, to the screams of the performances.
ParlaMint-UA_2013-11-06-m0.u9	Thank you, thank you. Freedom Union, National MP Mikhalchisin. Please.
ParlaMint-UA_2013-11-06-m0.u10	Dear Volodymyr Vasilovich, distinguished national deputies, respected Ukrainians! Today we celebrate the anniversary of one of the greatest battles of World War II -- the Battle of Dnipro, the Battle of Kiev -- which has also become one of the most tragic pages of the twentieth century for the Ukrainian people. In honoring the memory of hundreds of thousands of infantrymen, tanks, artillerymen, and spies who stormed Dnipro, we should remember that at the same time historical truth, justice requires us to give a historical assessment that corresponded to reality rather than to an integral part of the imperial myth of the neighboring State. Yes, when we remember those who shed their blood and gave their lives for the liberation of Kiev, we should not forget those who gave up tens of thousands of Red Army men, including the vast majority of whom were made up of Ukrainians. We should not forget the words of the winner of the Shevchenkov Prize, modern - day Ukrainian writer Anatoly Dimarov, who remembered that there were no medical commissions, the disabled and the sick were taken to the front. At the age of 20, he was disabled, blind, and deaf from his injury, still being taken to the front and driven to German machine guns, as he mentions, with half a brick or with one rifle on three. Now, I'm sure that today, by bowing our heads to those who have fallen in the battle for Dnipro, in the battle for Kiev, we should not give up, let's say, what is now formed as part of a myth that is written in the Kremlin offices for the redemption of propagandists and state provokers. We must condemn those wildlings who sent tens of thousands of our soldiers to the butcher shop, Zhukov, Vatutina, and dozens of other Soviet generals who wanted to take Kiev to the red date of the calendar. We need to understand that today, when we talk about liberating Ukraine from the fascist invaders, we need to remind ourselves that immediately after them, the Soviets, the SMERSH, the N.C.V.D., came back to Colombia, returned to the tribunals, returned to mass repression. Nor should we today forget that there is an undeclared war against the Ukrainian people in Ukraine, a canon of undeclared war. When we look at the social situation today, we should clearly remind ourselves that today we have a debt of only insurance payments: 82 million dollars in production, 284 million dollars in incapacity, 223 million in unemployment payments, in total, in all social insurance payments today, the treasury has not funded 2 billion 300 million dollars. That it's like an undeclared war against the Ukrainian people, that it's not genocide against ordinary Ukrainians. Then, eternal glory to the heroes, eternal shame to the catacombs!
ParlaMint-UA_2013-11-06-m0.u11	Party of regions, national deputy of Goncharov. Please.
ParlaMint-UA_2013-11-06-m0.u12	Honourable Volodymira Vasilovich, National Deputies, Ukrainian Authority, Parliament, People's Republic of Europe have chosen the path of European integration, the way of not only trade cooperation, but also the way of achieving the European standard of living, European wages, pensions and scholarships. But in order to do so, Ukraine should ensure that the country’s economy grows by means of European productivity, European attitudes, and the fulfilment of its responsibilities. In doing so, draft laws adopted by the Supreme Council did not have a positive impact on the economy. As a result, we encounter and criticize the non-payment of civil service remittances that impede the socio-economic development of the regions. What was done to us? Here's what's going on. We pass laws, they don't work, and we start making new changes, adjustments, additions. And that's how these hundreds of draft laws are formed that aren't adopted from week to week, and the economy is out of the question. That's why I see as my goal the development of the budget-making industries and, above all, the coal industries. The coal industry is not the first to understand what European standards are and how they are achieved. The coal mine workers themselves become heroes, the profits of our miners have European volumes, but most of them work to overcome existing European standards. As a result, increasing the prestige of mining work, creating new jobs, increasing the welfare of citizens and increasing budget revenues are the consequences of sound and efficient economic policies. However, this cannot be stopped; the coal sector needs not as much reform as the clear legislative direction and support, namely the adoption by the end of this year of the 2421a bill on the stable functioning of mines, with the exception of their bankruptcy, the adoption of a project (2203) on the elimination of imperfection. At the same time, there must be an industrial development in each of the settlements. And we need to create a state development programme for the central area of Donbas, which, for the first time, has been designed for 20 years to ensure the operation of the mines, secondly, to prepare mines for further closure, and the main thing is to create new jobs through the creation of new businesses. How?
ParlaMint-UA_2013-11-06-m0.u13	National MP Momot, faction of the Party of the Regions.
ParlaMint-UA_2013-11-06-m0.u14	Alexander Momot, 27th constituency, Dnipropetrovsk, Party of Regions Dear head, dear fellows! On Sunday we celebrated the Day of Social Workers. I would like to point out that more than 3,000 relevant institutions and social institutions are working in Ukraine today. This is more than 60,000 workers who provide assistance to socially vulnerable groups at the call of their sincere hearts have dedicated their lives to serving people and supporting the needy. Imagine the figures: almost 14 million pensioners, 2 million 800,000 disabled, 2 million black people, almost 2 million war veterans, over 90,000 orphans and other categories. Regrettably, people who provide assistance themselves need support and improvement of life: the average wage of a social worker cannot withstand any criticism. Frankly, the income of a social worker is often lower than the income of their subordinates. Last week I worked in my district in Dnipropetrovsk, welcoming social workers with a holiday. We were communicating, and I heard about the difficulties these people face. It's important to understand that communication with older people, disabled people, orphans is not just physical work, it's a huge psychological strain. It requires maximum endurance, tolerance, feeling, and the best human qualities. I believe that their work is undervalued neither by society nor by the state. The category of social workers and social workers should also be distinguished. A worker is a person who provides services and services directly to the underprivileged. Imagine these people getting a little bit more than a thousand dollars a month. There are problems with the delay in travel costs, the costs that social institutions receive for their own services come back late, we all know about it. On October 8, the President signed a law providing for compensation to individuals who provide social services. I think that's the first step and the indicator that we realized the real dream of things. But in my opinion, we have to give. continue to work in this direction. We also need to find an opportunity to review the wages of social workers. These people are worthy of the respect of society and the state, both morally and materially. Thank you for your attention. Praise the liberators of Kiev!
ParlaMint-UA_2013-11-06-m0.u15	Thank you. National Deputy Victoria Babic, Ukrainian Company faction.
ParlaMint-UA_2013-11-06-m0.u16	I'd like a word with my colleague, Volodymyr Bidovka.
ParlaMint-UA_2013-11-06-m0.u17	The word Volodymyr Beziowka is rendered.
ParlaMint-UA_2013-11-06-m0.u18	Respectable citizens of the city of Kiev, citizens of the multinational Ukraine! First of all, allow me to congratulate you on the Day of Liberation of the Working-Christian Red Army of the capital of Soviet Ukraine, the city of Kiev, from the fascist impurity and its associates, the soldiers of UN-OPA. Let us also congratulate you on the coming 96th anniversary of the Great October Socialist Revolution, which marked the beginning of a new era in world history on 7 November 1917. One sixth of the earth’s land was dominated by hard work. The social conquests of Great October and the Soviet Government were directed at all mankind. Even in capitalist countries, Governments had to make a number of social concessions for workers under the influence of the revolution. It was the restoration of the power of the working councils, headed by the Communist Party, that allowed the country to eliminate illiteracy and build hundreds of enterprises. which have brought both the Soviet Union and Soviet Ukraine into the world leaders of industrial production. The Soviet people defeated fascism, for the first time in the history of the Soviet Union, Ukrainian lands were united. This is because in the first 20 years the Soviet Union has been in international isolation and has been under pressure from the capitalist world throughout its history. Despite all the difficulties, the labour force in the country of the Councils was socially protected: it received free and quality education, hundreds of thousands of creative circles and sports sections in the country, and the young person received the first guaranteed job in the profession. Our free education and health system was considered to be the best in the world, the person received a decent salary and pension, and wages in Soviet times were equal to prison terms. In Soviet Ukraine, it was understood what work was like, especially the work of women on whom there was also a family hearth. That is why they retired at the age of 55 at the age of 20. I am addressing Ukraine's miners. You used to be over a million people, you got a salary of three, four times higher than the average in the country. You were proud to be called "labour guard." How do you live now when dozens of mines are closed and there are fewer than 200,000 of you left, when thousands of you, like slaves, are working in ditches and not in legal mines?Oh, my God! The faction of the Company of Ukraine, following its tradition and programme of the party, continues to defend the rights of the working people. And today, in particular, we demand not to practice the expression of love for the people, but to support the bills of Simonenko and the Communist factions: 2294a, on the abolition of criminal pension reform; Bill No. 2547, on the imposition of penance in the event of non-payment of wages; and 1039, on nationalization. We demand the lifting of the so-called medical reform and, in fact, the genocide of the Ukrainian people. The Communist faction has always protected and protected human rights. Long live socialism!
ParlaMint-UA_2013-11-06-m0.u19	Thank you. Have a seat. People's deputy Golovko passes the word to Mikola Tomenko, faction of Fatherland.
ParlaMint-UA_2013-11-06-m0.u20	Dear colleagues, I would like not to say our words, not our research, but the words of our distinguished Ukrainian scientists. We looked at Kiev 70 years later. The Academy of Sciences has published a 15th volume of the history of the Great Country War, which is one of the most fundamental studies, and I would like to hear a few words from this study today. In recent times, literature, particularly in memoirism, has shown convincing evidence that the Dniprovian transport, which was not on a scale, was also unprecedented because of the rough estimates and irresponsibility of those institutions that prepared it and led it, and then by human loss. Again, more than ever, the criminal negligence and stupidity of those who had failed to control had been compensated by the self - sacrifice of those who, immersed in the cold water of the day, had broken through the fiery death of the right - wing platters. According to eyewitnesses, especially writer Victor Astafiev, 25,000 people enter the water and reach 3,000, up to 5,000. Five or six days later, it all goes away. I don't think we have any respect or respect for those warlords who made it worth it, I'm not afraid to say that word, millions, because the previous conclusions were about 417 thousand, today it's about. About a million people lost, not counting the so - called blacksmiths who were unarmed, refused clothing, and dropped the shipment, for Stalin ordered the liberation of Kiev by 7 November. The operation was not just a failure, it was a crime against people! Kiev suffered, friends, not in 1943 anymore, but in 1941, because according to Stalin's concept, when Soviet troops came out of Kiev, 940 of the best buildings of Krestatika and the 3km area around them were destroyed. I have, as a participant in fighting in Afghanistan, a request to our non-Soviet white-billionist politicians not to do party electoral work in memory of the fallen millions of people who were protecting Kiev and protecting Ukraine! [[Applause]] Stop hanging these flags because today all of Kiev is in the flags of the KMDA. It seems that Popov and the Dnipro Region Party moved him and set him free from Kiev. We have a national flag, we have dignity and respect for those who were. Today, Kiev must be freed from the fascist invaders, liberated from its haughtiness, and liberated from corruption. To liberate Kyiv from the Russian measure that began to govern Ukraine here, as he tried to do several millenniums ago. So, my friends, we respect the liberators. But we ask the politicians to stop. Praise the liberators of Kiev, glory to Ukraine!
ParlaMint-UA_2013-11-06-m0.u21	The People's Deputy Dubil gives the floor to the People's Deputy Petrenko, the "Fatherland" faction.
ParlaMint-UA_2013-11-06-m0.u22	Paul Petrenko, "Fatherland" faction. We welcome our veterans today. And I have a question for power. What has been done for these veterans? When was the last time you were in a regular district hospital? And I was. I saw the horror that was happening there. When there's no equipment, when there's no doctors, when there's no medicine. When, in fact, patients are not treated there but are fed. In addition, they feed for three bracelets 60 copies a day with balconies and bread. And what does the Ministry of Health do? In fact, the Ministry of Health stated that, today, Ukraine has bypassed the Third World countries in the last year on an equal footing! There are now 19 deaths per thousand citizens! Today, Ukraine has actually become one with African countries. In doing so, the MOH actually does what it does. It closes the hospital, 600 hospitals closed. He's trying to free vaccines of questionable quality from control. It's actually carrying out corruption schemes that are actually scaled down to the Lively resonances and other areas of the Party of the Regions. One last example. Literally, last week, the Ministry of Health used up about a billion dollars in quick-help purchases and bought these quick-ass aids. No, not from manufacturers, not even from large distributors! And in the paper company. "Quick help" with questionable Chinese equipment! Nearly a billion dollars, of which 200 million were actually stolen! I have a simple question. Who will be responsible if a person dies in that ambulance? Because they would refuse, for example, an artificial breathing device for Chinese production? Who will be responsible for this? If you think you just stole that money? No, it's not. In addition to this money, you have blood and tears from millions of Ukrainians who are not actually living because they have no funds for treatment, no funds for food. Then I have a question for the leadership of the country and a request from the entire "Paternity" faction. Why is it that, in the presence of such pervasive facts of abuse, the chief corrupter of this ministry, the head of the Botirov ministry, is still in his chair? I have a question for the leadership of the Supreme Council. Why is the report of the Interim Investigation Commission not publicly discussed in the session room in violation of the relevant Rules and Rules of Law? I have a question for those people and for those officials who steal money. Understand that these 200 million could be spent, as a minimum, on the operation of 300 children with brain tumors and could give them a chance to live. This money could buy 400 more ambulances. With this money, it would be possible to treat 2,000 more people with hepatitis. We have a clear requirement: Minister Richter's resignation. We have a clear requirement for Parliament’s leadership: to publicly discuss the report of the interim commission of inquiry, do not hide the truth from people.
ParlaMint-UA_2013-11-06-m0.u23	Thank you. National MP, Popescu, faction of the Party of the Regions. He gives the floor to the Zarubinsky People's Deputy.
ParlaMint-UA_2013-11-06-m0.u24	Please pass it on to Zarubinski.
ParlaMint-UA_2013-11-06-m0.u25	Dear Igor Grigorovich, dear colleagues! I have heard today from my esteemed colleague, who is first in Parliament, that we are often, often, witnesses to cynicism in this session room. I think it's not cynicism, because cynics are rightly called people who know the price, but they just don't value anything. I think it's just a display of political fuss, really political fuss. But political fuss is not a single phenomenon; it is a derivative of what? I'll call it, I think. From the town's haughtiness – a; b – to the diletarian knowledge or, rather, to the pseudoscience, which borders with superiority to its colleagues, with superiority to other deputies. On the other hand, this political tumult gives work to polymerizers, polytheismmakers, who form comforting images, images, starting with cartoon machos, and ending with high-speed intellectuals. But it's really a political mess, it's a mess. But, dear colleagues, there are things that are completely independent of this political fuss. And one of them is to gain the real independence of our state. Independence, first of all, I want to talk about it today, in the energy field. Because Ukrainians, Ukrainian citizens should not be hostages who are personally political and career interests, or even material and mercantile interests when signing these or other energy agreements, including with neighbouring states. We should not be held hostage by these interests. And so I propose, we propose, our faction proposes, today I am introducing to the Supreme Council of Ukraine a systematic, comprehensive bill on energy auditing in Ukraine. About the audit that will allow real experts, not the political mix, to achieve an economy of 6 to 7 percent a year during the first year, during the first year and a half of the year, of reducing energy expenditure, of energy and fuel resources within each enterprise. According to a large estimate, what is proposed is a reduction in the burden on the state budget of Ukraine. This is an increase in Ukraine’s competitiveness. This is something that will allow us to depend less on whims, hysterics, ultimatums, blackmail, including other countries, and other capitals, wherever they are, whether east or west of Ukraine. I suggest we throw away the bubble and the political mucus or the cartoon macho, or the speedy intellectuals, and do business. Thank you.
ParlaMint-UA_2013-11-06-m0.u26	Zubcevski, a national deputy, gives the floor to the National MP Martinyuk, a faction of the Ukrainian Company.
ParlaMint-UA_2013-11-06-m0.u27	The honourable electorates, the distinguished participants of the Great Motherland, brought me to this rostrum by the blasphemous words of your grandchildren, who here today did not want to honor your feat, but were looking for inventions and contemplations from history, how to cross it out, how to talk about it. I was brought to this rostrum by pain for the father of the front man. I am the son of the frontist of the youngest appeal in 1927. Fortunately, he's still alive, and I'm sure he's listening to our words right now. Think about it. The last appeal of the great native is 1927. They are now 86 years old, 87 years old, and over. Think of those left in units. Think of those who have brought you such a happy, free life. It would not have been their feat, nor would you have been on this earth. And you're looking for words today to humiliate them if you say what they did, not a feat, but something else. You know, I have such a feeling today that those who wear Fatherland's Mothers' Mothers' Motherhood, if they spoke about protecting the Motherland, they wouldn't be protecting her today. They're not patriots. There's no patriotism because they spit and trample on the history of a state that was protected 70 years ago. So from the sober, from those who understand what a feat is, from those who have parents, Dnipro has been forced by their grandparents to protect our capital and liberate Europe. On behalf of the faction of the Communist Party of Ukraine, I ask you, dear veterans, to forgive the blasphemy of those whom you have chosen and whom you have entrusted with representing your interests. Next time, think about how they are pounding on your bright memory. And always remember the words of famous Julius, Fuchik: "People, keep your eyes open!" And put an insult on neophasism. Glory to the victorious warriors, the liberators of the capital of Ukraine! Thank you, heroes!
ParlaMint-UA_2013-11-06-m0.u28	Thank you. The speeches are over. So let's move on to the day-to-day issues. The draft Act (registration number 2997) amending the Ukrainian Law on State Pension Insurance is being considered (registration number 2997) (registration period for the appointment of a minimum pension). The National Deputy of Ukraine, Litwin Volodymir Mihajlovich, is invited to report. If the procedure is not announced, it is usually complete. Okay. I'm making a proposal to the Freedom faction to consider this issue in a simplified way. Please vote. [[10:38:20]] For 105 The decision is not taken. The factions. Region Party - 1, Parenthood - 57, Vitaly Klicka - 8, Freedom - 32, Ukraine - 0, non-fractional - 7. Volodymyr Mikhailovich, please.
ParlaMint-UA_2013-11-06-m0.u29	Dear colleagues, I will continue with the thought expressed in Oleg Zarubinsky's speech and was about to stop the "political fuss." Now, I suggest we now move on to a practical issue that is extremely important and painful for a large part of the Ukrainian people and also without a "political fuss" to make a political decision. Because I understand that there is an arrangement: no decision on this matter is made. And there's no big, in principle, desire and opportunity and necessity to throw pearls. But I'll say, my fellow Members, that when the Ukrainian Law on Legislative Measures to Reform the Pension System was passed on October 1, 2011, there was an increase in retirement age. But they did this in a step-by-step to adapt society and people understood the principles and rules behind which pension reform would be implemented. But at the same time, one stroke, they raised their insurance for 10 years: for men up to 35, for women up to 30 years. This has put a large number of people, especially women, particularly in rural areas, such as farm workers. But the farm's broken down, there's no insurance, and they can't get a minimum pension. So I understand that this pension law will inevitably work, but we have to make a decision and give the opportunity, either this insurance internship for 10 years, to introduce in a step-by-step manner that is proposed in this law. And I would ask you not to pharisaise, not to seek out politics here, that seven national MPs have passed this bill. And vote, and not on the basis of putting it down and not taking it any further. Give people a chance to get a pension. The Pension Fund, the Cabinet of Ministers, states that it takes between 400 million and 600 million dollars. I'm sure if that's the case, it's not a problem for such a country, all the more so that we adopt laws every day, you know that, and it's going to go against the lobbyist interests of government funds in a much larger amount. Moreover, respected colleagues who have violated the Constitution of Ukraine, especially since respected colleagues, 35 years of age or 30 years of insurance, do not allow part of the deputies to receive a pension for overtime, for people who have worked for harmful manufacturing. Therefore, the suggestion is to take this bill calmly, without political interference. By the way, I'd like to remind you that he was already looking at the previous session. By the way, I would like to remind you that the MPs offered to uphold this law and promised to support it. This will be the best greeting and a gift for the Jubilee of the Day of Deliverance of the City of Kiev. Thank you for your attention.
ParlaMint-UA_2013-11-06-m0.u30	Thank you. Please register with the national deputies for a question. People's MP Motchov, Vitaly Klitchak Faction.
ParlaMint-UA_2013-11-06-m0.u31	Please pass the word to Rosenco Paul.
ParlaMint-UA_2013-11-06-m0.u32	Turn on Rosenk's microphone.
ParlaMint-UA_2013-11-06-m0.u33	Paul Rosenco, Vitaly Caller's Faction. Dear Volodymyr Mikhailovich, I was looking at one of the airmen yesterday who spoke from the regional leaders of the Party and said that yes, indeed an increase of 10 years of insurance has been a major mistake in pension reform and that we have to resolve the issue of lowering this insurance internship. In case you feel that the Party of Regions really wants to support, as a compromise, your bill and ready to vote in favour of it. Because that's how we do it, that on the airs the authorities say one thing, they talk about one rhetoric, and they come into the Hall of the Supreme Council, and they actually refuse to make and approve these decisions.
ParlaMint-UA_2013-11-06-m0.u34	Thank you for asking. Dear colleagues! I have the same respect and respect for each of the deputies present in the session room, for every political power, because people have voted both for the individual MP and for the political power. I know the moods of the people's deputies. They want to make this decision, they understand the absurdity of this norm. When the problem with party discipline is solved, it's no longer up to me. I'd like you to take this decision as a compromise. Let's not cut back on insurance, let's give people a step-by-step adjustment to increased insurance, and that's going to be a normal decision, I think. As for our retirement age, we went to give people the opportunity to plan their lives. Thank you for asking.
ParlaMint-UA_2013-11-06-m0.u35	National Deputy Kupreyczyk, Fatherland faction.
ParlaMint-UA_2013-11-06-m0.u36	Irina Kupreyczyk, I give the word to Andrew Pavlovsky.
ParlaMint-UA_2013-11-06-m0.u37	Turn on the Pavlovsky microphone.
ParlaMint-UA_2013-11-06-m0.u38	Andrey Pavlovsky, "Fatherland" faction. In fact, this law is kind of half-dimension. But it's better than that pension genocide that was voted by the Party of the Regions at night under the silent consent of the Communists. And I would like to remind the honourable author that at the time he started to consider this bill, and then he became ashamed and he handed over his first deputy to the Communist. And they then, in violation of the Rules, voted in favour of this shameful pension reform of Yanukovic-Azarov. And what's 10 years would still have to be the 10 years of minimum that have raised people to cancel at all. Well, let's gradually do this, let's go to these rays, and the "Fatherland" faction will support this bill as a compromise, and on the part of the Party of Regions let it be repentance to the people they destroy in the Fascist way.
ParlaMint-UA_2013-11-06-m0.u39	I thank Andrew Pavlovski for the question and the invitation. Dear colleagues, I tell you as frankly as possible, I am responsible for any decision taken during my term of office in the Supreme Council, regardless of whether I was in the session hall or not. I think it's the right thing to do. At the same time, my dear colleagues, I urge you not to bill now, because everyone has their own skeletons in the closet. I could give you dozens of examples of what you did during that time. when they were in power, how they refused to pass social laws. We have this practice, fellow believers, that when in power, they come out of the public interest, when power is lost, they mention the problems of the people. Let's always think about the problems of the people, and now we're not going to argue, but we're going to consolidate the Supreme Council to make that decision. Thank you for asking.
ParlaMint-UA_2013-11-06-m0.u40	Thank you, Vladimir Mikhailovich. Have a seat, please. The report invites the head of the Committee on Pensioners, Veterans, and Disabled Persons, Suškevich Valeriy Mihajlovich. Turn on the microphone.
ParlaMint-UA_2013-11-06-m0.u41	Thank you. Ladies and gentlemen, before I begin my report from the committee on Bill 2997, I would like to say that all that concerns pension reform is the most important and important factor for our veterans, for the winners of the great victory, including the liberation of the capital of Ukraine. So I would like us to move from the exploitation of this topic in political speeches to reality, the real support of our veterans, by voting for the bills that apply to their pensions. I emphasize this as the head of the Committee on Pensioners, Veterans and Disabled Persons. When you vote, think about what you are voting for as the generation that made the Ukrainian state. And now I want to say that by 1.10.2011, there were enough five years of retirement for retirement by 1/10.2011, and the minimum age of retirement was 25 years for men, 20 years for women. After the adoption of the so-called pension reform, there is now an increase in the insurance system to determine the right to a three-fold pension, 15 years takes an insurance internship, and 35 years for men as well as 30 years for women. Dear colleagues, many national deputies, I promise either our constituents that we will do something real for our pensioners, for our veterans, we have promised to make and eliminate what is called pension reform. Our committee worked constantly to support the legislative initiatives of those national deputies. A group of national deputies — colleagues Litwin, Jeremeyev, Martinjak, and others — decided today to take the path of mitigating the effects of pension reform, mitigating that critical increase in the insurance system to determine how long pensions are to be granted. And they set us up, offered us three positions. First, set the minimum retirement age for men 30 years old, women 25 years old. Second position: they proposed a step-by-step increase, I emphasize, a step-by-step increase in the amount of insurance required for retirement at the age of at least 25 to 30 years for men and starting from 20 to 25 years for women, depending on the date of birth. This is the main legislative proposal of colleagues who proposed Bill 2997 to mitigate the effects of an extreme increase in insurance. And the third position proposed by the bill is that the Cabinet of Ministers is entrusted within 3 months of the date of publication of this law to establish a procedure for recalculation of the pensions assigned to the act, taking into account its requirements. What I'm saying is that the bill is fairly systematic, and it's worked. This was discussed by the national deputies who discussed the bill at the committee meeting. It should also be noted that the Chief Scientific and Expert Authority of the Supreme Council, as a result of the first reading, is proposing to us to adopt this bill as a basis. The Committee on Social Policy also supported the bill in its first reading. Well, what concerns the Ministry of Social Policy, Minfin, Minsk, the Pension Fund, they all consider the adoption of the bill to be of no use. Dear colleagues, the committee fully supported the bill, suggests accepting it as a basis for mitigating the problem of pension reform. Thank you.
ParlaMint-UA_2013-11-06-m0.u42	People’s deputies would like to sign up for a question. People's Deputy Tears, Fatherland faction.
ParlaMint-UA_2013-11-06-m0.u43	Please pass the word to Andrew Pavlovski.
ParlaMint-UA_2013-11-06-m0.u44	Turn on the microphone of the People's Deputy Andrew Pavlovsky, the "Fatherland" faction.
ParlaMint-UA_2013-11-06-m0.u45	Andrey Pavlovsky, the "Fatherland" faction of Julia Timoshenko. I would like to point out that we really have to adopt this law, although I've already said that it's half-dimension. But we really need to compromise. Let's at least start with this -- the job experience needed to get these low-level pensions. Because, really, we talked about the liberation of Kiev and compare the pensions that our veterans receive to Germany. And I, by the way, just read in the newspaper "The News," that the daughter of Vatutina lives in Prague, Czech Republic, and gets a pension of $1,850. But she is frightened by that monument of the Vatutina, because it was small and this one is huge and so on. A very interesting interview, read, and perhaps you will draw conclusions about how our pensioners should live.
ParlaMint-UA_2013-11-06-m0.u46	Zabzaluk National Deputy, Fatherland faction.
ParlaMint-UA_2013-11-06-m0.u47	The Fatherland faction, Zabzaluk. I give the word to Tomenko.
ParlaMint-UA_2013-11-06-m0.u48	Turn on Tomenka's microphone.
ParlaMint-UA_2013-11-06-m0.u49	Mr. Valeria, I have a question. Did you not, as chairman of the committee, plan for a more systematic approach to this resonant subject? I mean, look at the situation. When there were discussions, and the government didn't listen to the Fatherland faction, disobeyed the opposition, disobeyed the public, and quickly adopted the pension reform, then promised us some standards of social life. They're completely different today. Perhaps a report from a government that would inform: why the Pension Fund is even worse than it was before the pension reform; why there has been no head of the Pension Fund for several years; why there is no social policy at all in the country. And then it would be easier to understand how we can correct the mistakes of government and power. Why don't you take the initiative?
ParlaMint-UA_2013-11-06-m0.u50	People's MP Melnik, Freedom faction. Oh, yes, please.
ParlaMint-UA_2013-11-06-m0.u51	I'm sorry, let me answer the honorary colleague. Dear Mr. Mikolo! Your question is absolutely appropriate. Because the reality of today's pension reform as a measure of the government's actions on the steps to be taken, the Ukrainian pension is not some kind of social pay, it's a Ukrainian pension, depending on the internship and the salary, unfortunately, there is no pay today. And what I want to tell you is that today, more than 10 million of our pensioners, the veterans we're talking about today, and unfortunately, in pension insurance, we're not doing anything in pension insurance -- they're getting a pitiful pension at the middle level! Over 10 million! And it was thought that the internship and the salary after the pension reform.
ParlaMint-UA_2013-11-06-m0.u52	People's MP Melnik, Freedom faction.
ParlaMint-UA_2013-11-06-m0.u53	The All-Ukrainian Freedom Union, Eugene Melnik. Mr. Valeria, ask you a question. Please tell me, is this bill really a project that needs to be adopted today, and it's on time? Does the project solve these global problems of pension reform imposed on us by the Party of the Regions? Thank you.
ParlaMint-UA_2013-11-06-m0.u54	Dear colleague! Of course, this bill does not solve all the problems of the pension reform that has taken place. What is more, it is real today, and it is realizing the consequences for people, for our pensioners, and, including those who are retiring, the effects of pension reform have been softened. Otherwise, for today's day, it's an extreme of 3 times the increase in insurance to get the right to a pension and 10 years to get a pension at a minimum, it's just scary things that have been done. And actually today, this bill -- well, it's kind of a way to make it easier for people after that so-called pension reform. Other questions are what needs to be done today to improve the pension insurance system, the pension insurance system. It's not happening yet.
ParlaMint-UA_2013-11-06-m0.u55	Thank you. People's deputies would like to sign up for the factions. People's MP Agafonov, Vitaly Klicka Faction.
ParlaMint-UA_2013-11-06-m0.u56	Please pass the word to Paul Rosenck.
ParlaMint-UA_2013-11-06-m0.u57	The word is given to Paul Rosenck.
ParlaMint-UA_2013-11-06-m0.u58	Paul Rosenco, Vitaly Caller's Faction. And indeed, we are looking today at one of the most fundamental mistakes in pension reform. Finally, I am pleased that after two years of discussion, the party of authorities finally began to realize that it was a 10 - year increase in insurance that became one of the biggest mistakes in pension reform. After all, there are 35 years of insurance for men in Ukraine, 30 years for women. It's Europe's biggest insurance internship. In Europe, Ukraine has the smallest pensions in Europe. Today, the average pension, if rejected by all special pensions, is about 1,100-1,200 dollars for our Ukrainian citizens. What is an insurance internship, and what function did it perform in Ukraine’s pension system? This was an encouraging norm, since after a person had worked out this insurance, he had been 25 years old for men and 20 years for women had been eligible for pension benefits. They were of course not enough, they were small, but there was an incentive for people to work longer, get legal wages and thus increase their pension. And what happened after they increased their insurance for 10 years. This incentive has been destroyed, since it is virtually impossible to get 35 years of insurance for men. It's about insurance. It's not about work, it's about 35 years of work, it's about legal work, it's about insurance contributions. And for the generation of the late 1980s, in the mid-1990s, which is now retiring, it's virtually impossible to talk about legal work. You remember those mass layoffs when teachers, doctors, engineers, academics were forced to quit their jobs, they were fired from their jobs, and they were forced to trade in markets. In markets where there was apparently no legal work. And now these categories of people are retiring. We have to protect these people. We need to understand that people who are now 30 years of age and have to retire, they have no opportunity to work today for five years. And they don't just retire, and these pensions go down because they don't have insurance. That's why the strike faction will support this bill. We hope for support, including all factions, of the next draft of the strike faction, which makes systematic changes.
ParlaMint-UA_2013-11-06-m0.u59	Zubcevski National Deputy, faction of the Ukrainian Company.
ParlaMint-UA_2013-11-06-m0.u60	Respected colleagues, respected voters, the Communist faction will support the bill, despite its half-life, i.e. it reduces the insurance service, but does not solve the main problem of reducing retirement age. It should be noted that today it is indeed a global problem because it affects every citizen of our country. The issue of increasing insurance and retirement age is a direct attack on human rights. Once again, I would like to point out that, under the current pension system, most Ukrainian citizens will not live to the retirement age. The increase in the insurance age is also absolutely anti-national. Where is total unemployment taking place during these years of insurance when the country is experiencing massive job cuts? The Euro-Integration Course of Ukraine has already led to the destruction of the domestic producer and, accordingly, to the closure of factories and the reduction of jobs. Here the so-called opposition sheds crocodile tears over pension reform. This reform is the result of the commitments made in due course to the International Monetary Fund. They made those commitments, and the white and blue fulfilled those commitments. It is this policy of Yushchenka, Timoshenko, Pinzenika, Stelma and the jobless implementation of Western structures that has led to the impoverishment of the people and the elimination of social protection that has been developed by the Soviet authorities. During the 22 years of independence, all the legacy left to us by the Great October Socialist Revolution with enormous social conquests, where everyone felt protected and confident in the future. There were also some points concerning our faction by the opposition forces. I'll remind you and take the decryption of the Communist faction vote when the pension reform was under consideration. The entire Communist faction voted against anti-national pension reform. It was the Communist Party that organized mass protests against anti-national pension reform at the time. Pension reform is a national disgrace today. This is a betrayal of national interests. A genocide of the Ukrainian people. We say, "Slow pension reform!".. Thank you for your attention.
ParlaMint-UA_2013-11-06-m0.u61	People's deputy Xenius Leapina, faction of Fatherland.
ParlaMint-UA_2013-11-06-m0.u62	Please pass the word to Viacheslav Kirilenko.
ParlaMint-UA_2013-11-06-m0.u63	The word Viacheslav Kirilenko is given.
ParlaMint-UA_2013-11-06-m0.u64	Viacheslav Kirilenko, Fatherland faction, Party for Ukraine!".. Dear voters, distinguished colleagues. In what way did the authorities go: The Party of Regions, the President and everyone involved? It's a simple way of raising the minimum working age, or as they say, "insured"; simply by increasing retirement age and simply by improving the pension formula. This was supposed to contribute to the recovery of the Pension Fund and the increase in pension payments. What's wrong? It all turned out exactly the opposite: any increase in the retirement age and the abuse of people doesn't produce any results at the Pension Fund if it's an opaque, corrupt, mafia economy. Now, we have a fund to pay for the order of 450 billion dollars is official. But all the experts say it's about that much in the shade. And out of this shadow money, none of the pension funds are paid for. Look, if you're already at the Rinat Ahemtov investors' conference, you say that "an investor shouldn't come to Ukraine in a suit, he should go to shorts or underpants." So it's a testimony that no one's going to put money in here! And so the Pension Fund is going to go through simple harassment from ordinary people so that people and what they should get can't get. At the same time, the huge profits that even now are made in businesses are still due to tax minimization schemes that go into offshore areas and are not paid for. And then we ask! Now Kiev has allocated 8 million dollars only for the celebrations of Kiev’s Day of Deliverance. And the pension for a fighter, do you know what it is? 1,500 bucks! What kind of fighter could live in Kiev for 1,500 dollars?Oh, my God! This is a real illustration of the politics of power: they do not pay those who should pay, but they tear out those who can’t pay for anything anyway! And that's why we're in this position: anything, with any changes, this criminal pension reform should be abolished. There's a bill that we're looking at right now, and it's not entirely addressing the issue. But at least partially corrects the mistakes that the authorities have made, so we have to vote for it, we have to vote for the next bill, and then we have to go back to the next session anyway to the bill that was tabled by the Fatherland. Because soon all of these pension payments won't be paid to anyone, because we've got so much mortality in our lives that there's genocide going on and there's destruction, starting with everyone, and there's pensioners, it's such a reality.
ParlaMint-UA_2013-11-06-m0.u65	National deputy Greenewecki, faction of the Party of the Regions.
ParlaMint-UA_2013-11-06-m0.u66	Thank you, Igor Grigorovich. Greenewecki, 134 district of Odessa, faction of the Party of the Regions. Please give the floor to a well-known expert on social matters to a fellow national deputy, Jaroslav Sukhoma.
ParlaMint-UA_2013-11-06-m0.u67	Jaroslav Suhi.
ParlaMint-UA_2013-11-06-m0.u68	Thank you, Sergey Raphaelovich. Dear colleagues, in a number of legislative initiatives aimed at the further improvement of the solidarity pension system, this bill (2997) is the most optimal one and is the most real one, and one that can really be used to improve the existing solidarity pension system. I've told Vladimir Mikhailovich about this before, and that's what I said in the session room, and I'm talking about it right now. Because it stems from specific historical premeditations, which, colleagues, have come together objectively. Because the consequences, I ask you to listen carefully to who is dealing with the seniority of pensioners, the consequences of the second echo of the demographic disaster have not only covered Ukraine, but the whole world. But the most painful is the level of pension insurance in countries with economies in transition. Colleagues, pension reform isn't designed by someone, not designed by a party, it's absolute nonsense. As a result, by 2030 the number of pensioners and workers has been compared. But it would be a good thing if I had asked for words, if I had a committee of professionals, the distinguished Valery Mikhailovich, if the authors had made the necessary calculations on the budget implications, the Pension Fund, there would be no questions at this point. What do you want me to remind you of? This is about improving, improving the solidarity pension system, because when we passed Law 3668, the Head of the Supreme Council of Ukraine Vladimir Litwin remembers, we put two conditions before the government: the first condition is to ensure that it is modernized, we gradually implement it, and ensure that this increase, the gradual increase in the insurance system. This was the case when we supported Bill 3668. Thus we achieve what we agreed two years ago, the Cabinet of Ministers of Ukraine, after this bill, established a new order for the recalculation of assigned pensions. This bill could now be voted on both the basis and in general, but this prevents the absence of normal calculations in accordance with article 91 of the Rules. So I call upon all the factions that are present to the deputies here to support this bill about sending it back for re-reading. Thank you.
ParlaMint-UA_2013-11-06-m0.u69	People's Deputy Krivetsky, Freedom faction.
ParlaMint-UA_2013-11-06-m0.u70	Please pass the word to Edward Leon.
ParlaMint-UA_2013-11-06-m0.u71	Turn on Edward Leon's microphone, please.
ParlaMint-UA_2013-11-06-m0.u72	Dear National Deputies! I very much ask you to take this matter seriously. Because, in principle, it's so complicated, so soft, this bill and this legislative initiative of a respected colleague of ours, that it doesn't support it, it just means to show to all the society that this Supreme Council, this majority, is not going to do anything to make even a little bit of a conditional improvement in the real life of a pensioner, to give any hope to people who don't have a job right now, can't support the fact that their families can't feed themselves. These people are given the hope that they will ever receive any pension. This bill does not apply in any way to retirement age. It only applies to insurance. And so we have to take into account the history of our unhappy state that has been in a state for the past decade when it was simply impossible to get insurance when it was impossible to find a job right now so that people of pre-retirement age simply couldn't find a job in order to dream of 35 years of insurance. Those people who are 35 years of insurance have long retired. These are the people who "stuffed" in the Soviet Union and for that Soviet miserable pension then lived to their own age. And now there is no way for a person in the labor book to find those continuous or interrupted 35 years of work. You and I need to understand that pension reform is not a pension reform. In fact, no pension reform is being implemented in Ukraine. The failure to pay people the money the Soviet authorities promised, the Ukrainian authorities of the early times of Ukrainian independence, and which this authority now promises "improvers". There will be no pension reform, there will be no pensions, because on a simple question, and when the next phase of pension reform begins, there is a simple answer: when we overcome the deficit of the Pension Fund. And on the simple question, and when the Pension Fund's deficit is gone, there's a simple answer that's coming out of both the mouths of the Ministry of Social Policy and the mouth of the Pension Fund: within the next 10 years, the deficit of the Pension Fund will not be overcome. Accordingly, there will be no second phase of pension reform. So you don't have to lie to the voters, you don't have to lie to yourself. We have to try a little bit right now, even though it's conditional on us to pretend that we're dealing with pensioners and voting for this bill. In fact, it is necessary to vote in favour of the bills tabled by the Freedoms who abolish this pension reform in full and bring Ukraine out to resolve these.
ParlaMint-UA_2013-11-06-m0.u73	Thank you. Factions finished speaking. Please sign up for the performances of the National Deputies. People's MP Miroshnichenko, Freedom faction.
ParlaMint-UA_2013-11-06-m0.u74	Please pass the word to Yuri Mikhalchin.
ParlaMint-UA_2013-11-06-m0.u75	The word is given to Yuri Mikhalčin.
ParlaMint-UA_2013-11-06-m0.u76	Dear Chairman, distinguished national MPs! Indeed, the pension system in Ukraine is the most paradoxical system in Europe. Indeed, we have the highest pension costs per cent of gross domestic product is 16 per cent of GDP, while at the same time the average pension of a thousand 484 bracelets is the lowest in Europe. This can be explained in parallel by the antisocial phenomena caused by the structure of Ukrainian society in general. We have almost half of the pension costs -- 44 percent of the pensioners get one third of the so-called specialized categories, namely judges, prosecutors, government officials. The promising positive results that the authors of the Odystic Pension Reform had predicted were never expected by 13 million Ukrainian pensioners. Today, we have a state-owned pension insurance system that has not been implemented, the pension deficit is rising year after year, it has reached 70 billion dollars, and the following year it probably will not improve. We have several million pensioners waiting for a just pension, those who have retired before 2008, because they still have a pension base of a pitiful 198 dollars instead of the current, by the way, two thousand and 369. Appropriately, we will support this bill as one that partially alleviates the situation in this extremely dramatic and tense sphere. But we realize his half-participation and compromise. I would like to remind you that a program for the protection of Ukrainians of the All-Ukrainian Union of Freedom requires a legislative relationship between a minimum and a maximum pension of one to five, as well as a retirement age based on the average life expectancy in Ukraine, which, by the way, falls unrestrainedly compared to other European countries. We can then conclude today that the bills proposed in this session hall, even the compromising nature, must be supported in view of the social catastrophe that is affecting Ukraine. At the same time, our Ministry of Social Policy is about time to rename, perhaps as part of administrative reform, the Ministry of Anti-Social Policy and the genocide of the Ukrainian people. Because the situation that we have today with social pay in general is simply shameful. I, by the way, remind the honourable audience that in October only the pensions in Ukraine were paid without delay, and all other social benefits, including social insurance payments, came with a delay of two or three weeks, even though they belong to the so-called protected categories of the state budget. The bill is then supported, but we insist on systemic changes. Thank you for your attention.
ParlaMint-UA_2013-11-06-m0.u77	National MP Sergei Mishchenko, non-factional.
ParlaMint-UA_2013-11-06-m0.u78	Dear colleagues, respected citizens of Ukraine! Sergei Mishchenko, 98th District, Kyivshina. Now, I'm going to act not as a politician, not as a deputy, but as a person who finished the Chernigian Law School of the Ministry of Social Security and started her work as a pension inspector. And so let me tell you how this happens, how it's calculated, I don't need to. I'm not going to tell you about politics, I'm going to tell you about discipline and what people are asking at meetings. So, after we failed last, six months, the vote on three drafts to abolish pension reform. You remember that my bill lacked two votes, for other bills, for other deputies, there were no more ten votes. Why did this happen? I'm asked at every meeting: Sergei Grigorovich, what's going on? Why does one part vote, the other one doesn't vote? I explain to them the following things, such as political jealousy. Political jealousy is that, God forbid, another national MP from another political power, the more non-fractional, was accepted in the session room. Political jealousy is when in one bill at the same time people come out of the hall and don't vote, and then others come and vote. Political jealousy is that "if it isn't us, it's nobody." I can say the next thing I can say is that right now again, what I was saying six months ago, a lamus paper for each of the MPs, first of all, majors, because the scribalists never in their mass order in their sessional weeks to go to the villages, they're going to stand for what they're on the list for. It's from the cheerleaders. I urge all the political forces, please, if you're going to the people and not to come to them in five years' time to vote for you, you must now take your responsible step. Yeah, it's half a size, it's a bill, but it's something for us to change this pension reform and show that we really care about people. We really want something to change in this country. And then at another stage, we have to show by another bill that a woman should retire at 50 years of age, not 55. I ask you very much to have a face in front of your constituents, now to vote for one, for another bill, and to say that you are, indeed, the Ukrainian national deputy. Thank you.
ParlaMint-UA_2013-11-06-m0.u79	Thank you. National MP Lazko, non-factional.
ParlaMint-UA_2013-11-06-m0.u80	Oleg Lazko, Radical Party. There, dear friends in the opposition camp shouted that I had not voted for another fifth pension bill yesterday. Dear voters! I want to sincerely apologize to you for not being in the hall yesterday and not voting for this bill. But I voted in favour of all the previous ones. And I'm voting today. And we, the non-fractional MPs, all vote in favour of the Lithuanian bill. This bill will help to resolve the issue of lowering the retirement age for pensioners. This bill will allow you to schedule an insurance internship. Because today there are 10 years of retirement, unfortunately there are no people anywhere, especially in the villages. Especially the creative intelligence that was banished to markets in the 1990 ’ s, scientists, and intelligence! People stood on the market to feed their families. And today they can't even get a minimum pension because they don't have an internship. So the non-fractional deputies will vote, and I hope that all the other factions will vote. But respected voters, venerable millions of Ukrainian citizens! I want to tell you a story, a story that I just happened to witness. I see, the leader of the faction of the Efraemov Party is consulting with the former Finance Minister, a member of the Phinenic Party on the details of this bill. Ephraim asks Pinzenic, so what do you say, what's the position? How to Vote? And what position do you think Pinzenic sounded? He said there was no need to vote! Opponent Pinzenik! I have seen in the eyes of Ephraim that they, behold, Alexander Sergiyovich will confirm, and the Lord God sees that I am telling the truth! I saw hesitation in the eyes of Ephraim. They don't know, they don't know what to do. They asked Pinzenic. Pinzenik told them not to vote. Alexander Sergiyovich! That's not what we're going to do. Go to Laszka, I'll tell you how to vote! Cancel pension reform. Reduce retirement age for pensioners, reduce pensioner insurance! I ask you by Christ God, vote! Because our grandparents, who have worked their age, because of this shameful law, and because of people like Pinzenic, they don't get a pension. And a call to Vitaly Call. Vitalia, Pinzenik is running economics. If you want to be president, if you want to put order in the country, breathe like Pinzenic! People like Pinzenik should be hanged for stealing from all the people, and he's advising you. These consultations are going to come out to our millions.
ParlaMint-UA_2013-11-06-m0.u81	National MP Matviyev, faction of the Ukrainian Company. Olga Lewchenko.
ParlaMint-UA_2013-11-06-m0.u82	Thank you. Please.
ParlaMint-UA_2013-11-06-m0.u83	Olga Levchenko, Ukrainian Comparty faction, city-hero Kiev. I would like to point out that this bill is being rejected from a number of bills submitted to abolish the anti-human pension reform, since it deals practically only with matters of insurance that allow for a minimum pension. Unfortunately, the bill does not say anything about the need to reduce retirement age, and we all see that for two years the so-called pension reform of Sergei Tigipco has not been positive in the work of the Pension Fund. What were the reformers counting on? I'll tell you. They expected to go into the pockets of Ukrainians once again, and to pay off the debts of the Pension Fund through their miserable pensions and salaries. It's been calculated. The pension deficit continues to grow, with about 30 billion bracelets. But there is still a hidden deficit, which is a grant from the State budget, which the Pension Fund has to pay back, and it is only 37 billion grivens in the past periods. At the same time, the collapse of the economy, the closure of enterprises, unemployment, shadow wages, informal employment do not allow for insurance. According to some data, some 5 million Ukrainians work without official registration. About 170 billion bracelets per year are received by Ukrainians in envelopes, which means that the Pension Fund budget is down 90 billion bracelets per year. In Minnesota, some two million people were considered to receive a minimum wage, and these are also hidden incomes. You and I are now growing a generation of minima who will receive a miserable pension in 20 years. For our voters, once again, I would like to say about the insinuation of individual deputies from the opposition that the Company supported the so-called pension reform. Your injury is easily shattered by facts. I have in my hands the roll-call documents that confirm that the faction of the Compartium of Ukraine unanimously voted against pension reform. However, there are many names that have voted in favour and are now portraying the defenders of the Ukrainian people and even introducing legislation. Therefore, while insisting once again on an integrated approach to pension reform, the faction of the Company of Ukraine will support the bill as a single, small, step towards social protection for Ukrainians. Thank you.
ParlaMint-UA_2013-11-06-m0.u84	Thank you. National Deputy Stoyan, faction of the Party of the Regions
ParlaMint-UA_2013-11-06-m0.u85	Dear colleagues, the first positive point is that today all three drafters of the bill do not propose to abolish the pension reform that happened yesterday, but make concrete proposals. This is a positive moment. I would like to point out that the honourable colleagues, really after we adopted the pension reform, we had to accept it, there were no alternatives, we saw its positive results. But we also saw some flaws. I'll tell you what we're working on right now is looking at the most painful positions. The first painful position is what women tell us, 55 years of retirement. And we see an option that might go to allow women to voluntarily choose the age of retirement. Do you want to be 55? Please, but that means you're retiring tomorrow, not getting your pension and working, and you're getting 40-45 percent of your average salary. You want more retirement -- you get more every step of retirement. Second of all, I mean. The question is painful. Because it's all about talking, it's about talking. We need to think about how we can increase the pension as a whole. The second painful question is the rate of replacement of pensions, wages. If all the simple people today get 40 percent, up to 45 percent, then government officials get 70 to 80 percent. We need to think about, by increasing the remuneration of government officials at a lower level, we need to think about equalizing pensions for all on average. I think we need to work on these. Now, about the Vladimir Litvina bill. Dear colleagues, really Vladimir Mikhailovich is making a very good offer. Look what's up. We said that every year a woman who retires is added six months. For example, 55 and 6 months, 56 years, 56 months, and 5 months in stages. And she's retiring, but we're writing it down right now, and I'm admitting this as our mistake, because I was in a group of developers, and they wrote that a woman is going to go 55 and 6 years old, right, and she needs 30 years of experience right now. Where will she take them if she is old and has no internship? So, Vladimir Mikhailovich, I fully support your offer. Thus, the retirement age increases by six months and increases by six months. And so by 2020, we're going to get to both age and internship. But, Vladimir Mikhailovich, the Party of Regions will support you for further work because there is no financial justification. We will be voting for your bill in the near future. We will definitely support him. He needs to be accepted. Thank you.
ParlaMint-UA_2013-11-06-m0.u86	Thank you. The discussion is over. Does the reporter have a wish for a closing word? Vladimir Mikhailovich Litwin is invited to conclude, three minutes.
ParlaMint-UA_2013-11-06-m0.u87	Dear colleagues, I thank you for the constructive discussion and for the pins that were released. And I'm going to say to a colleague who's just been speaking, Anna Ahmatova, "If you knew what kind of dirt politics grows out of without knowing shame." That's why I'd rather keep my mouth shut in your town. Otherwise, I can tell you everything. I thank you for the constructive discussion that has taken place here. I thank you for your intention to make that decision. True, for six months I heard this call: that we will vote that there is no financial justification. Dear colleagues, when we adopt lobby laws, you are not interested in financial reasons. I don't care! And now we're clear on the financial basis. Therefore, your will is yours to make decisions. But as a compromise: if the Supreme Council doesn't support this project, then let's remove the problem of reducing retirement age, and vote in favour of settling the issue of insurance. Let's make this decision, because in six months, I understand that there will be no decision. Your will, your wish. Because if we work on the law, create a working group, I don't know what to do there, people in the country will just die and the problem itself will fall away. I'm talking about the village. And, dear colleagues, I am addressing those MPs who are always in the district, who are constantly in the district, who are now reporting for the year of their work. You know how people feel about this problem! And we tell them we have to make a wise decision. All in favor of the decision, there is only one, there are no 226 votes. I'm asking you, not for the political capital of anyone, for people, let's make a decision. We were all wrong, and the main thing was to admit our mistake and correct it at the right time. Thank you!
ParlaMint-UA_2013-11-06-m0.u88	Thank you. Correspondent, closing statement – Suškević Valeriy Mihajlovich. Turn on the microphone.
ParlaMint-UA_2013-11-06-m0.u89	Dear colleagues, I would like to join the author and say that today people are expecting us to take some concrete steps towards improving pension insurance. I would like to remind you that unfortunately, in recent years, there has been virtually no action on the part of the authorities in terms of improvement regarding any systemic steps in the area of pension reform. So I turn to the Hall: Support our committee, the Committee on Pensioners, Veterans and Disabled Persons, who unanimously supported this legislative initiative in terms of the need to correct and mitigate the consequences of the so - called, pension reform. Today we should vote on the first reading and consider further steps to improve the pension system. It's, by the way, a tiny, minimal step that we can take in today's action to really make it easier, especially for women. The women we insulted were insulted by the consequences of the pension reform they had today and as if they were trying to win. Please support this bill. Thank you.
ParlaMint-UA_2013-11-06-m0.u90	Thank you. Ladies and gentlemen, let's move on to the decision-making process. I'm betting on a draft bill (registration number 2997) to amend the Ukrainian Act "On mandatory government pension insurance" (for minimum pension insurance) to be accepted as a basis. People's deputies, please vote. [[11:35:27]] For 221 The decision is not taken. The factions. Region Party 10, Fatherland 89, Vitalia Klicka Strike 33, Freedom 34, Ukraine Company 30, non-factional 25. Ladies and gentlemen, the proposal here was to send this bill to the committee for re-reading. I'll bet you a vote. People's deputies, please vote. [[11:36:19]] For 313 Decision taken. The factions. Region Party 104, Parenthood 88, Vitalia Klicka 33, Freedom 34, Ukraine 30, non-fractional 24. Ladies and gentlemen, the draft Act (registration number 2072a) amending certain laws of Ukraine (to guarantee the right to a just pension and to abolish certain pension reform rules) is being considered. What is the proposal to consider? I'm making a proposal for a reduced procedure. Please vote. [[11:37:15]] For-138 The decision is not taken. The National Deputy of Ukraine, Rosenko Pavlov Valeriyovich, is invited to report.
ParlaMint-UA_2013-11-06-m0.u91	Paul Rosenco, Vitaly Caller's Faction. And I guess I'll start with the last speech by the Party of Regions on the previous bill. And if we compare the first discussion we had, which was about a change in the pension reform that took place 10 months ago, and now the discussion that took place today, it's the same. Everything we're told is that we're consulting there, we're working, we're forming some working groups in power, but the result of these discussions is absolutely nothing. It's been 10 months, the pensions remain at the level of thousands of dollars, the officials, yes, they're a thousand 500 dollars, and so it's like the Party of Regions is doing everything. And there's just a primitive delay in time, a primitive delay in time and a rejection of change, real changes in the pension system. Now I'm going to go directly to the bill introduced by the strike faction, which I have the honour to report today. So our bill is the most systematic of all the bills that have been introduced so far. Because we're not just suggesting that we address the issue of reducing retirement or reducing insurance, we're proposing a comprehensive solution, we're proposing changes to the 14 laws of Ukraine. We propose to change and return the issue of pension insurance to all categories of citizens who were oppressed in the 2011 pension reform. In particular, we propose to amend the Laws on National Compulsory Pension Insurance, on Service in Local Self-Government, on Diplomatic Service. We're proposing that we re-establish the formulas for pensioning scientific workers and amend the Law on Scientific and Technological Activities to enable our scientists, the incentive in the form of pension insurance. After all, pension reform, in fact, destroyed the incentive system for scientists, destroyed the system of scientific pensions in general. And now a scientific pension is granted only after a full retirement. We suggest that we cancel this position and make appropriate changes to the Science and Technology Act. We propose a re-establishment of pensions under the law on the status and social protection of citizens affected by the Chernobyl disaster. In our view, this is a huge mistake in pension reform, when the people who have protected all of Europe, the whole world, from the consequences of a terrible catastrophe, in fact, today after the pension reform, have remained beyond survival. Today, the average pension in Chernobyl is about 2.5-3 thousand dollars. Let me remind you that at the same time, the procurator's pension is 7.5,000 dollars, the judges have 6.5,000 dollars, the former national deputies and officials have 15,000 dollars. So the question is, who was protecting the whole country from the consequences of the Chernobyl disaster? That's why the impact faction proposes to reinstate in pension rights the liquidators of all those involved in the Chernobyl disaster. The other one. We suggest restoring the rights of people with disabilities, because the insurance and pension scheme for the disabled in Ukraine has been increased by 10 years as a result of pension reform, it's a completely cynical offer of today's authority, because there's not enough difficulty in finding a job for a disabled person and talking about it. That a person has to work 15 years, well, under 15 years to get a proper pension, is insane. So the impact faction suggests restoring the rights, the social rights of people with disabilities, that's the principle of our position. In particular, I want to say that the strike faction is proposing to amend the state guarantees for the social protection of military personnel released from service in connection with the reform of the Ukrainian Armed Forces. I would like to remind you that the necessary insurance for military personnel has been increased by five years, and this has actually put the entire category of citizens at risk, since the exemption from military service has previously been an opportunity for people to retrain, gain new education and become a new one, and to find a new job. Today, with an increase of 5 years for military personnel, in fact, they are approaching critical age, 50 years of critical age. When after retraining, a person simply cannot find a job. Because you know very well that today it is virtually impossible to find a job for a person over 45 years of age. And for my part, I want to thank the Ukrainian Ministry of Defence, which supported the bill introduced by the strike faction and offered to accept it as a basis. And that's why I hope that those military officials who spoke here today, from the Supreme Council of Ukraine, talked about the heroic feat of our veterans and about the heroic efforts of the Ukrainian Armed Forces, are also voting today to propose a strike party to restore the social rights of the military. And then we're going to see who actually goes to the rostrum and talks about the protection of rights, the social, the military, and who really cares about them. And that's why I hope that the generals present in the Party of Regions today will support the bill introduced by the impact faction. Likewise, I hope that the representatives of the trade unions in the Party of the Regions will support our bill, because the joint representative body of representative trade unions in the country has clearly supported our bill and are proposing that the Supreme Council take it as a basis. So I hope that the representatives of the trade unions in the Party of Regions will also adopt and support this bill. In general, when we talk about the further fate of pension reform, we have certainly heard a lot about the demographic factor. Of course, you can't throw it away; it's really negative. But to say that in 2030 we're going to have a negative, so to speak, the balance of the relationship between working and non-working citizens is a huge mistake. The state has to do everything to change the negative demographic picture: stimulate birth and stimulate mortality in Ukraine. But now we ask the question: How can we stimulate the birth of today’s authorities? Will the country’s birth rate improve when today’s authorities shut down hospitals in cities and villages? There will never be an increase in birth. Will there be an increase in birth rates in those villages where the authorities are shutting down public schools today? Of course, the birth rate will not increase. So, of course, when we talk about demographics, today's authorities have to be responsible for this negative situation. Of course, the second part of our bill is about the only principles of pension. Here the representatives of the Party of the Regions said they would think about it. So what do you think? Let's make a decision. The strike faction suggests that we start with each other and that the pensions of the people's deputies, the President of Ukraine and the members of the government be counted as ordinary citizens. Well, there can't be two different pension systems when for ordinary Ukrainians, the pension is calculated as 45 percent of their salary and for officials 80 percent. It can't be in a normal civilized country. Let's not talk. The Impact faction calls for concrete decisions to be made and the only principles for pensioning in Ukraine. In the end, I hope there will be an achievement. Yes, of course, adoption, approval of this law is probably a small step backwards. But in my opinion, as the classics said and taught us.
ParlaMint-UA_2013-11-06-m0.u92	Turn on the microphone. Let me finish.
ParlaMint-UA_2013-11-06-m0.u93	But surely, as we were taught by the Marxist Leninism classics once, perhaps now is the time to take, indeed, a step back, to then take two steps forward -- two steps forward for a just pension and to increase the pensions of Ukrainians. Thank you for your attention.
ParlaMint-UA_2013-11-06-m0.u94	People's deputies would like to sign up for a question to the reporter. National MP, Mikola Catherinechuk, Fatherland faction.
ParlaMint-UA_2013-11-06-m0.u95	Mikola Catherinechuk, Fatherland faction, European Party of Ukraine. I have a question. Here we keep talking about pension reform, pension reform. Still, your attitude. Was it a pension reform or was it such a disgraceful experiment on pensioners? That's the first question. And the second question. How do you feel about the 225 majors in the hall who today have not been able to influence the change in the so-called effects of pension reform and have not voted? Who chose them? What kind of pensioners chose them? And the third. Still, pensioners cannot go to a demonstration. Blackbacks and Afghans come out. How do you predict, well, the consequences of those perfectly normal suggestions and professional ones that you have here, will they be implemented by this Parliament?
ParlaMint-UA_2013-11-06-m0.u96	Thank you, Mr. Mikolo. And when the opposition speaks of the failure of pension reform, it is certain that the authorities are skeptical. But I am now in the hands of the findings of the National Academy of Sciences, which were distributed before the vote for pension reform. And the conclusions of the Academy of Sciences today say that, "The main point to the authors of the pension reform -- this quote -- is the flaw in choosing the form of reform. The reform of such an extensive and complex branch as pension insurance is not carried out by law, which was adopted by the authorities. And it doesn't meet the basic requirements of legal, legal, regulatory, norm-making." "In our opinion," writes the Academy of Sciences, "reforming pensions should go a very different way. And this bill, which was passed by the authorities, has to be rejected in a second reading." This is not an opinion of opposition, this is the idea of the Academy of Sciences, which was ignored by the previous Supreme Council.
ParlaMint-UA_2013-11-06-m0.u97	National Deputy Stoyan, faction of the Party of the Regions.
ParlaMint-UA_2013-11-06-m0.u98	Dear colleague Rosenko, I give due credit to your profession. And you really couldn't help being a professional. Because they were the First Deputy Minister of Social Policy, they worked for the Presidential Administration. Can you honestly say that the pension reform that took place in the days of Julius Timoshenko was satisfactory? If not, why didn't you do anything? And second moment. Why did Julia Timoshenko write to the International Monetary Fund that her government would necessarily make a pension reform? This is her official statement. There are, I think, signatures of other individuals, the Head of the Supreme Council, there is the President. So you've already promised to reform. They saw that the reform was towing. So please tell me why you didn't do it. And do you think that the fact that you've accepted pension reform isn't that it needs to be cancelled? Thank you for your answer.
ParlaMint-UA_2013-11-06-m0.u99	Alexander Mikolaiovich, I do not agree with you that we have done nothing in the pension insurance system. We've done a lot, Alexander Mikolayovich! Do you remember that in 2008, 3.5 million people received a pension below the subsistence minimum? Do you remember that decision of the government that abolished this injustice? And since 2008, we haven't had a single pensioner who gets pensions below the minimum of living. Now, about the IMF. Once again, I officially declare that neither as an expert nor as a politician, that the first mention of the increase in retirement and insurance has appeared in the documents of the International Monetary Fund signed by Azarov and Stelmak in 2010. In no document signed with the IMF until now, no mention of a rise in retirement age or a rise in retirement has been made, you're lying, and you know it!
ParlaMint-UA_2013-11-06-m0.u100	A report by the head of the Committee on Pensioners, Veterans, and Disabled Persons by Suškevitch Valeri Mihajlovich Turn on the microphone, please. Five minutes.
ParlaMint-UA_2013-11-06-m0.u101	Thank you, Your Honor. Head of the Committee on Pensioners, Veterans and Disabled Persons, Suskevich Fellow dignitaries, the committee at its meeting, considered Bill 2072a, introduced by the people’s deputy Rosenko and other colleagues. And don't be surprised that today the national MPs, well, especially the opposition, especially the opposition, are constantly addressing this subject, the subject of pension reform, the topic of improving pension insurance. That's what I'm paying attention to, because there's a lot of letters coming on the committee from retirees with a reminder. Dear colleagues, distinguished national MPs, remember what you promised during the election campaign, remember that today you have to make a pension with an internship and a salary that is unfortunately not available today. One of the important aspects of today's consideration of the 2072 bill is the issue of a just pension. And the first, the first position that I would point out in this bill today is the proposal of the people's deputies, who are the authors of this bill, to make retirement provision for former cabinet members, i.e. government officials, and national deputies on general grounds. Dear colleagues, it is proposed that the pension in Ukraine be calculated and counted equally for all without privileges. I want to remind you again today of the celebration of Kiev's liberation from German-Fashistic invaders. And our winners, and among them are those 73 percent of the pensioners who get the average salary, the average pension, sorry. And today, actually, imagine, most of them get a pension of 1,200 dollars. How this can be a fair pension compared to how this pension is calculated for government officials and national deputies. One of the positions of this bill is to eliminate social injustice in terms of calculating pensions, the size of pensions. And, of course, the committee unanimously supported this position of bill 2072a. In addition, the bill's authors have traditionally proposed to re-establish the rules that were valid before the entry into force of the Ukrainian Law on Legislative Measures to Reform the Retirement System, i.e. the so-called pension reform. So today, this bill proposes to restore retirement, retirement, pension calculation, pension recalculation for workers, the right to state social assistance for citizens who do not have the right to a pension, and so on. During the discussion of the committee's meeting, attention was drawn to the need to add to these positions the offer of the Fatherland faction (which is now in the Dennisov Law, a colleague of Dennis from the Fatherland faction) for a pension reform on the subject of modernization. And the committee members suggested that in the second reading, of course, such a standard should apply to the modernisation of pensions for our pensioners. So the committee has proposed and proposes to support this norm, a systemic norm, by adding it to systemic factors such as today's modernisation of pensions offered by colleagues from Homeland. In addition, it should be noted that this bill proposes to restore the early establishment of one-time pensions, as well as the provision of retirement pensions for senior military personnel, a major factor that has also been eliminated today in the context of pension reform. And certainly, the issue of Chernobyl, as discussed by the drafter of the bill, is also addressed today in this bill, and the maximum amount of pensions is proposed for the Chernobyl population to increase from 10 to 12 living minimums. The committee, our committee, the Committee on Pensioners, Veterans and Disabled Persons supports this bill. The Committee of the Supreme Council on Environmental Policy and
ParlaMint-UA_2013-11-06-m0.u102	Thank you. People's deputies please sign up for a question to a co-rapporteur. National Deputy Sabi, Freedom faction.
ParlaMint-UA_2013-11-06-m0.u103	Please give the floor to Deputy Zelek.
ParlaMint-UA_2013-11-06-m0.u104	National deputy Zelik, Freedom faction, turn on the microphone.
ParlaMint-UA_2013-11-06-m0.u105	Ruslan Zelik, the All-Ukrainian Freedom Union. Tell me, Mr. Valeria, please. Look, the first reason the members of the Party of Regions talk about when they don't vote in favour of the bill or in favour of the previous bill is because there's no financial and economic justification. Indeed, for lobbyist laws it is unnecessary and they are adopted here in this sessional room, not on a full program, but on a short schedule. Is there a factor to the lack of financial and economic justification that allows us to ignore the interests of millions of people? Thank you.
ParlaMint-UA_2013-11-06-m0.u106	My dear colleague, I want to tell you that, unfortunately for today, there is no such thing as virtually no action that relates to improving pension insurance from the Ministry of Profiles. And let's say, let's say, let's say, let's say, hypothetically, the proposal of the people's deputy Rosenka and their colleagues regarding the restoration of positions that were prior to the pension reform. What is offered in exchange? Nothing. So what the bill proposes is essential, it is necessary, and today it is required by our voters, millions and millions of Ukrainian pensioners, including the winners of the Great War, the generation that made the Ukrainian state. Therefore, we need to count, weigh, and make decisions for the benefit of our pensioners. Please be supportive.
ParlaMint-UA_2013-11-06-m0.u107	National Deputy Butkowski, faction of the Party of the Regions.
ParlaMint-UA_2013-11-06-m0.u108	I'd like to pass on the word of Guzenko Costin.
ParlaMint-UA_2013-11-06-m0.u109	National MP Guzenko.
ParlaMint-UA_2013-11-06-m0.u110	Thank you. Dear Valery Mikhailovich, I have a question for you about the specifics. What are the risks of today’s burden on the Pension Fund in connection with the adoption of the proposed changes? Thank you for asking.
ParlaMint-UA_2013-11-06-m0.u111	My dear colleague, I want to tell you that during our consideration of this bill, we were trying to get the Ministry of Finance, the Ministry of Social Policy, to take a constructive approach to the proposals of the people's deputies. So that we can find a possible financial resource that could provide for the entry into force of this bill. You know, I'll tell you one thing, as if today, before the second reading, was proposed by the government, the government, the Ministry of Social Policy, the Ministry of Finance, the government, in general, let's take some stage in the implementation of the bill, a system bill that will support our pensioners, the committee would definitely consider. I think we're in the middle of this phase improvement in our citizens' pensions. There are no suggestions, unfortunately, on how to make improvements.
ParlaMint-UA_2013-11-06-m0.u112	National Deputy Petrenko, Fatherland faction.
ParlaMint-UA_2013-11-06-m0.u113	Paul Petrenko, "Fatherland" faction. Please pass the word to Alexandra Kugel.
ParlaMint-UA_2013-11-06-m0.u114	Turn on Alexandra Kugel's microphone.
ParlaMint-UA_2013-11-06-m0.u115	Thank you. Valeriy Mihajlovich, I want to thank you for having approached the committee in charge of these bills, regardless of party membership. So the "Fatherland" party of every bill, regardless of the communists, of the "KNOCK," of Lithuania, we're putting our votes to the problem of halting the shameful pension reform. And I want to emphasize that this is not a stop and a return to what happened, but we're proposing the creation of a working group and the production of mechanisms that will help most people, who today live on a minimum pension, to understand the future. But most importantly, this future is understood by children. I want to thank you for this and continue to work in this direction. Thank you, Valery Mikhailovich.
ParlaMint-UA_2013-11-06-m0.u116	I want to say, and I ask you to turn the government, and all the factions to the constructive proposal of a member of the Fatherland faction, Alexander Volodymyrna Kugel. She's offering to set up a working group to work on everything that will improve pension insurance. If it doesn't work, let's work in this task force. A colleague offers both the committee and the inter-committee options, but to move to do something for the retirement provision of our pensioners. I would like to draw attention to this initiative, first of all, of government officials who could join this working group and work on a concrete solution to our pensioners' issues. Thank you.
ParlaMint-UA_2013-11-06-m0.u117	Thank you, Valery Mikhailovich. Question time's up. Honorable National Deputies of Ukraine and Visitors of the Supreme Council! Today at 12 o'clock 05 minutes, the Chinese honor the memory of the liberators of the city of Kiev, all those who laid their lives for the liberation of Kiev and all of Ukraine from the fascist invaders, all the heroes of the front and back, who are no longer among us. The immortal works of these people are eternal, and they are in the hearts of each one of us. Let us honor their light with a moment of silence. [[A Minute of Silence]] A break of 30 minutes is announced, up to 12 hours, 35 minutes.
ParlaMint-UA_2013-11-06-m0.u118	Ladies and gentlemen, we are continuing our meeting. People's deputies would like to sign up for the factions. National Deputy Irina Heratschenko, Vitalia Klitschka faction.
ParlaMint-UA_2013-11-06-m0.u119	Dear voters, dear colleagues! Perhaps it is exceedingly symbolic that the pension laws are in order today, when we honor the memory of those who really liberated Ukraine and the Kiev from German invaders. And the fact that the fact that the opposition factions are now almost fully in the sessional room is remarkable enough to vote in favour of abolishing those low standards of pension reform and bringing pension reform into line with European standards. Instead, we do not see in this session hall the representatives of the majority factions, who may feel that honoring the memory of those who have died in war and in general, the support of pensioners is to hand them flowers once a year. In fact, you know, our faction couldn't say a word during the performances at the beginning and say that cynicism is an extraordinary announcement of this day because after World War II the Kiev was restored to record terms, primarily because women, men wounded in war, teenagers worked without weekends, without weekends, without vacations to restore the economy. Today, we have authority to walk when there is such a huge hole in the Pension Fund when delays, wages, and pensions begin. So our faction insists that we obviously need to change the current pension system. It needs to be changed systematically, and that's why our faction proposed this bill, where it's really about restoring social justice in relation to all the categories of people who have suffered from reckless pension reform. And it's about people with special needs, and the Chernobyls, and the Afghans, and the scientists, and all those who actually put their work into the economy of Ukraine, and today they can't basically live on that pension that is set up by today's system. You know, we have a lot of talk this week about Euro integration. Once again, it's only rhetorical, while the European pension system requires equal treatment of all categories of pensioners, not the same as today, when today's pension system sets up categories of different kinds of people in Ukraine. And indeed, those who receive extremely large pensions are people without even brake – they are judges, and there are those who have very limited pensions. And so we ask that if we are not to reinforce these problems that exist in Ukraine's current pension system, we need to support the strike bill today. Just like Impact will support all the bills aimed at improving the pension system in Ukraine developed by our colleagues. Because in these matters, social, well-respected colleagues can't be ideologies. There's only got to be common sense here. And we're talking to everyone.
ParlaMint-UA_2013-11-06-m0.u120	Thank you. Have a seat, please. National Deputy Alexander the Jury, faction of the Company of Ukraine.
ParlaMint-UA_2013-11-06-m0.u121	Dear colleagues, distinguished voters! The extent to which any State fulfils its social obligations to the people in the form of pensions, wages, scholarships depends on the extent to which it is truly popular and the extent to which it is a people's authority. The Soviet power, with the best conquests of the Great October, with dignity and skill, has fulfilled its obligations. What is the difference between Soviet power and the current one that has ruled the 22-year-old ball in our country? The difference is that in the Soviet Union, through the conquests of October, Soviet power has placed the interests of the human being, his well-being and has done the most to ensure that every working person lives with dignity, namely, that every working man has his own work and the results of his work. In 22 years of independence, this right has been removed. Today, I would like to put two elements of what has happened. First. With regard to our pensioners, who actually receive miserable and destructive pensions. They are not in a position to feed themselves today, unable to cure the diseases they received when they were building the industry when they were reviving agriculture. Today they're just on the verge of survival. And the second component is our Ukrainian youth, who, in the current situation, simply will not live to the retirement age. After all, the rise in retirement age, the rise in the insurance system, today, is painful and has actually been compared to the average life expectancy in our country. Today, we state that there is no need for uninterpreted reform, but for new jobs to be created. It depends on how Ukraine develops and, if there are new jobs, there will be transfers to the Pension Fund, then every pensioner, every young person, every citizen of our country will be able to live properly. Without that, the situation cannot be solved. And I would like to point out that more and more young people and pensioners, understanding this situation, are coming to the Company today and to the Commsomol, and tomorrow you will see tens and hundreds of thousands of pensioners, unemployed, working people will be attending a nationwide event to celebrate the Great October to claim their rights. And these rights will be heard sooner or later, but in that country that will be free of oligarchs, passersby, and fascists. [[B in m in s a l in]] Thank you.
ParlaMint-UA_2013-11-06-m0.u122	Thank you. National Deputy Butkowski, faction of the Party of the Regions.
ParlaMint-UA_2013-11-06-m0.u123	I would ask you to convey the word of Jaroslav Sukh to the honourable chairman.
ParlaMint-UA_2013-11-06-m0.u124	Turn on the microphone of the national MP Jaroslav Suhogo. From the rostrum. Please.
ParlaMint-UA_2013-11-06-m0.u125	Your Honor, the bill is proposed. Dear colleagues, Bill 2072, I propose that we translate the numbers into the language. There are 21 million working people in the country. For 13.1 million pensioners, this would seem to be the case, we're in a full-fledged solidarity system to provide everyone with a decent pension on the condition of high pay, which is what my colleague Kirilenko was talking about. Of the 21 million, however, contributions are paid, insurance contributions to the $14 million Pension Fund, including a total of $11 million. So in those 11 million, these are judges, prosecutors, national deputies, teachers, doctors -- all those who receive pensions are not fully in line with the National Social Pension Insurance Act. Number two. The National Pension Insurance Act is taken by a hundred percent: 96 percent are people who receive a pension under this law. A total of 4 percent refer to the bill of honorary colleague, 4 percent. I've already called these numbers here. If the idea is to bring everyone back to the equation, and it's supposed to raise pension benefits, it's not true, it's not going to happen. I don't believe in those affronting words of the national MPs from the opposition. Because as good as you are, I'm going to count how many of you are sitting among today's pensioners. Give up your pensions, go for 1,500 or 3,200. But we did it, colleagues! What do you mean? We've restricted ourselves to retirement. I used to call this figure 0.64 percent, the military is 0.7, the state service is 0.7, the prosecutor's office is 0.04, the judge is 0.08, deputy assistants, science and technology, media journalists, teachers and doctors. Well, what can we talk about here? And another warning I have here is that this "pension reform" is juggling everyone, falling and not falling. Let me remind you, without offending anyone, the pension reform began in December 1993, then the MPs when they were summoned when the social security concept was adopted, when we transferred the pension insurance to pension insurance for what purpose? Make it dependent on wages, internships, and the size of pension payments. If all the Ukrainian National Deputies lose that pension and that's not going to work, we'll give the pensioners half a penny. But that's not even the point. The cynicism and disorder of such approaches is that we distract people from the real cause of small pensions, from productivity and from wages. It was said that the authorities should contribute to the demographic situation. But I'm talking about the trend, and the trend really is for us, not just for us.
ParlaMint-UA_2013-11-06-m0.u126	People's MP Mirny, Freedom faction.
ParlaMint-UA_2013-11-06-m0.u127	Thank you to the Communists for their applause, and please pass on the word to Michael Golovk.
ParlaMint-UA_2013-11-06-m0.u128	Mikhail Golovko.
ParlaMint-UA_2013-11-06-m0.u129	Mikhailo Golovko, the All-Ukrainian Freedom Union, 164 constituency, Ternopolishte. Deputies! The pension reform that, in this session hall, has repeatedly raised this issue really bothers Ukrainians. More than 15 million Ukrainians today face this great problem. Every MP who works and actually goes to the constituency sees the tears of those pensioners who are now suffering from this so - called pension reform. The All-Ukrainian Freedom Union has always supported any proposals for the elimination of this pension reform and the restoration of social justice. We can say that we have received this reform. We're up, we're up, we're up, we're up, we're up, we're up, we're up, we're up, we're up, we're up, we're up, we're up, we're We talked about how the pension deficit would be eliminated. Instead, we see it grow each year. And so far, it's about 70 billion dollars. What will this lead to? When are Ukrainians begging for pennies unable to survive under such conditions? What do we propose today? The All-Ukrainian Freedom Union has registered its Bill 1247, which is proposing the elimination of the pension deficit. Which is exactly the main problem for our pensioners today. The point of this bill is next. It suggests that the difference between the maximum pension and the minimum pension is 5 times. Not anymore. Let's move on. We propose that this injustice be abolished, as it were, by the special pensions that are currently receiving almost 3 million pensioners who receive pensions of 10,000 dollars, even 50 dollars, and some 100,000 dollars. This is exactly the greatest burden on the Pension Fund, which is blowing it up, and it increases the debt of the Pension Fund. How should we deal with it, how can we eliminate it? First of all, you'd have to take the labor market out of the shadows and restore the conditions that people have to account for the salary of the Pension Fund and the deductions that, today, about 50 percent of the labor market is working completely in the shadows. And that's a big problem. We need to offer a number of other mechanisms that could level this situation today with the tension in our society. We will support this bill, for every law of opposition, which, while making a full decision and partially mitigating the situation, is already an improvement for our pensioners. We see how the Party of Regions does not vote in principle in favour of abolishing pension reform, because they treat their people disgracefully, they abuse them, we see Ukrainians suffer. But we're going to raise that question every time and believe that we're going to find votes to reverse this pension reform because we have to stop the genocide of the Ukrainians and the begging of the Ukrainian people. We support this law. Glory to Ukraine!
ParlaMint-UA_2013-11-06-m0.u130	Yavorowski National Deputy, Fatherland faction.
ParlaMint-UA_2013-11-06-m0.u131	Vladimir Yavorowski. Dear colleagues, if I were you, every member of the Fatherland faction would do so and voluntarily pass the word to the leader of the Jacinyuk faction.
ParlaMint-UA_2013-11-06-m0.u132	Arsenius Yatzenuk, "The Fatherland" faction.
ParlaMint-UA_2013-11-06-m0.u133	First of all, honourable members of Parliament would like to start with a pension reform. The whole discussion is that the pension reform that was carried out by the government of Azarov, which was designated by the Party of Regions and Communists, consists of only one: A party of regions does not want to change this law, a party of regions does not want to vote for dozens of bills passed by the Ukrainian opposition. A party of regions does not want justice in pension reform or in the pension system. And it is they who have led 90 percent of Ukrainian pensioners to receive a pension of 1,000 dollars. We offered clear ways out of this situation. It's a state of retirement, and it's gradual. It's a reduction in the cost of the state apparatus, it's the sale of President Yanukovic's state residences and a reduction in the cost of charter flights, for special services and for an incredible state apparatus that is currently held at the expense of pensioners and taxpayers. It's creating jobs, it's an investment climate and it's signing an agreement between Ukraine and the European Union. But what kind of signing of the treaty might it be if today the Party of Regions reopened political persecution against opposition deputies? Just now, the masks of the show, led by the Tax Police, have arrived at the subject of entrepreneurial activity, which is owned by the Lucenk family, closed down the entire enterprise, everyone is arrested, all blocked. And so the Party of Regions and the Tax Administration, which is run by this party, instead of filling the budget to create jobs and feed Ukrainian pensioners, began the next stage of political persecution. This is the Ministry, and it's this tax administration that posted fictitious and false information yesterday that they seem to be looking for some money from Julia Timoshenko. I think they can find the money, not Julia Timoshenko, but the Party of Regions and its leadership. And it's enough to feed not what Ukraine is, but the neighbouring countries, and pay everybody European pensions. [[Applause]] This statement is an official request from the Paternity Dept. to the Prime Minister, to the Minister of Revenue and Assembly and to the head of the Tax Administration. Why did the Tax Administration start persecution against the Lucenki family? We demand to stop political persecution in the country. Because you're not in the European Union, you're closer to Solovka and Siberia is your ideology and your approaches.
ParlaMint-UA_2013-11-06-m0.u134	Please sign up for the performances of the National Deputies. National MP Edward Leonov, Freedom faction.
ParlaMint-UA_2013-11-06-m0.u135	Please pass the word to Alexia Kaidi.
ParlaMint-UA_2013-11-06-m0.u136	Alexy Qaeda, Freedom faction.
ParlaMint-UA_2013-11-06-m0.u137	Thank you. Dear fellow MPs, I will begin with the fact that the faction of the All-Ukrainian Union of Freedom will definitely support this bill, this social bill, as well as other social bills that are being submitted to this sessional room, both by opposition representatives and others, let's say, by overpowered deputies, but if these bills are really aimed at improving the social welfare of Ukrainian citizens. Because it's no secret to anyone, and he mentioned that the previous speaker said that to whom should we owe the so-called pension reform, to whom should we owe medical reform, to whom should we owe education reform? It's the government, Azarova-Tabnik. The government, which, more faithfully, received its rights, was thanks to the Party of the Regions and the faction of the Stalinists. Which this government has clearly supported, which is now robbing Ukraine, which is abusing Ukrainians, who are bullying pensioners. Remember last week, when our pensioners couldn't get their pension for three or four days, they couldn't get the crumbs they made in those years of hard work. And again, this is an improvement, an improvement today. However, once again, the government of Azarov is offering certain benefits to its businesses, offering once again an increase in spending on the President's Administration, on government, on district administrations, and this is at the expense of those disadvantaged people. Next. Today, there are several bills in the agenda that deserve priority attention. This is about the social protection of family members of deceased military personnel; it is about the transparency and transparency of the public social security funds; it is also about the bill concerning humanitarian aid that got stuck through the Royal charity; it is also about a bill on access to the media to meetings of the Supreme Council committees; it is also about the introduction of a moratorium on the elimination and organization of health facilities; it is ultimately about the abolition of the benefits. And that's why I'm asking the chairman first of all, after voting for the current bill, to put to the vote the proposal of the faction of the All-Ukrainian Freedom Association today to consider all the bills that are included in the agenda. Let's say that until the last bill included in the agenda is considered, the sessional plenary session will not be closed. I understand that we have parliamentary hearings today, but these bills, which are extremely important, need to be considered first.
ParlaMint-UA_2013-11-06-m0.u138	National Deputy Larissa Baiduk, Ukrainian Company faction.
ParlaMint-UA_2013-11-06-m0.u139	Please give the floor to the National Deputy Sameilenka.
ParlaMint-UA_2013-11-06-m0.u140	National Deputy Samoylenko, faction of the Ukrainian Company.
ParlaMint-UA_2013-11-06-m0.u141	Ladies and gentlemen, today I would like to draw attention to one of the provisions of the so-called pension reform, which is an insurance internship for women, 30 years and 35 years for men. Tell us how you can earn such a job today when, every year, the number of people who leave their homes in search of employment is increasing in search of a better life abroad. Today, this figure has reached nearly 6 million. This is the result of so-called reforms, democratic transformations, the desire to separate from Russia at all costs, accelerate the signing of the Association Agreement with the EU to the detriment of its own economic interests. Instead, the authorities claim that in Ukraine special attention is given to the development of the national labour market and the development of effective employment policies. Today, we should ask where the thousands of new jobs are promised by Yushchenk and now by Azarov and Yanukovich. Instead, we already have over 30,000 looted, destroyed enterprises, nearly 27 percent of the unemployment rate. For example, to the so - called independence in the light industry that we have practically managed, there were 600 companies with 800,000 people, now nine out of ten have become unemployed. And this barbarism continues today, as we can see from the example of Zitomirsk. Last week, I went to Luginsky and Romanovsky, and the only enterprise is the Ozorian factory, which produced thorphobricettes, is closed. One of the most powerful companies in the field of cooperation with the Quarcite metallurgy has been shut down. The July Spirit Plant, which produces the product of the highest variety, is closed, people are out of work and wages, migrated to Kiev, abroad. Tell me, how can you earn the necessary employment in order to get a pension? What about the village? 4.2 million unemployed, nearly 2 million fewer peasants, and 7,000 villages deteriorate. Here is the promised attention to the village, its inhabitants. Last week, I visited the villages of Osniki, Gorbashi, Cherniakhiv region’s Novosilica. Neglected policies of authority have led people to be in a hopeless position. The land that used to belong is passed on to people who cannot control it. And such actions are not alone. Which has led to the fact that in the area, we've gone into the area for all eternity, such as hops, freedom, on the edge -- animals, shepherding, and porking. And these are the jobs that the absence of which has led to the fact that villages are bloodless, have no jobs, and cannot earn the job that I was talking about. That is why we need to listen to the counsel of all today, and the bill that we are going to have today.
ParlaMint-UA_2013-11-06-m0.u142	Thank you, Vasil Petrovich. Have a seat, please. National MP Irina Spirin, faction of the Ukrainian Company.
ParlaMint-UA_2013-11-06-m0.u143	The low slope of those who protected us from German-Fashistic invaders, they're all pensioners, so the KPU faction supports all the projects, the bills that were repealed today by the pension reform. The increase in retirement age under the 2011 pension reform is causing widespread indignation. Throughout its life span, Ukraine has one of the last places in the world to raise the retirement age absurdly and senselessly, and this can only be done after an improvement in the health system. Yet, the reformers almost destroyed the health system, especially in rural areas. With such retirement age and the lack of access to health care, there will be no one to receive pensions, including a planned reform. The government is trying to reduce the deficit of the Pension Fund on account of low levels of the population, not on account of the budget economy. First of all, it is necessary to reduce the cost of retaining deputy officials and also to eliminate the distribution schemes of the State Budget. In addition, it is almost impossible for people over 50 to find a job today, for the government to answer these questions, where will the people of a respected age work, taking into account the tremendous unemployment rate today in Ukraine, especially the hidden one? And that is the answer that the state will not be able to offer today, so increasing retirement age does not fill the budget, and it creates a whole range of social problems. Disgusting pension reform testifies to the state's failure to make the economy effective, to restore production so that the budget can ensure a decent standard of living for citizens. Regarding the issue of retirement, the position of the Communist Party is clear, uncompromising and consistent. Everyone was able to see for themselves. The adoption of a bill amending some of the Ukrainian Laws on Guaranteeing the Rights to Equitable Retirement and Canceling Certain Pension Reform Standards (2294a) will allow the KPI faction to restore social justice in the assignment of pensions. We invite all the deputies who care about the fate of Ukrainian citizens today to support them.
ParlaMint-UA_2013-11-06-m0.u144	Thank you, sit down, please. People's Deputy Mohnik, Freedom faction.
ParlaMint-UA_2013-11-06-m0.u145	Please pass the word to Anatoly Vitov.
ParlaMint-UA_2013-11-06-m0.u146	The word is given to the People's Deputy Vitov.
ParlaMint-UA_2013-11-06-m0.u147	Deputies! Anatoly Vitov, the All-Ukrainian Freedom Union. So I look at the hall, and I see this row where the great pensioners sit, empty. This probably shows their true attitude toward pension reform and the simple Ukrainian they promised to protect. You know, this law, this era of pension reform, it reminds me of, you know, Tolstoy, "walking through torment." The fifth or sixth time, we make a law on annulment, reduction, and we look for the best options to solve the issue. And that law that now put Lithuania or now it's coming, it's cosmetic repair. It's not ideal, it's not a cancellation of pension reform, but it's an element of making life easier for the simple. average Ukrainians. I'm sure you all come to your districts without exception, and all of you say we're against abolishing pension reform, we're for the common peasant. But you come into the hall, you forget about the existence of those people. Maybe if we now passed the law -- the pension of MPs, the employees to compare to the pension of that simple Ukrainian, you'd probably move more, because everyone would hear their own pockets. We need to love that simple Ukrainian to the bottom of our pocket. And you're thinking about this Ukrainian, you're forgetting, you're thinking about your own. And now the hall is empty, I understand that today is coming, a couple of laws are still going to apply to pension reform, and I understand that no one is going to accept the Party of Regions, it's going to find a thousand arguments not to adopt the law. You have to change your approach, let's think about people, let's stop thinking about your firms, about your wealth. We've got a big hole in the Pension Fund that's not filled out for one reason, that big companies of oligarchs from the Party of Regions don't pay taxes, only that small and medium-sized business that's being pressed by the taxpayer. We have to change our approach: the more profits there are to be more credits to the Pension Fund. Let us treat the Ukrainians as people, not as voters who refer to the Party of the Regions. Glory to Ukraine!
ParlaMint-UA_2013-11-06-m0.u148	Thank you. National Deputy Peter Cibenko, faction of the Ukrainian Company.
ParlaMint-UA_2013-11-06-m0.u149	Communist faction, Peter Cibenko. Dear colleagues, respected citizens of Ukraine! The faction of the Communist Party of Ukraine, consistently defending the interests of the most disadvantaged populations, including veterans, pensioners, and disabled persons, has always voted and voted for improvement. for all projects aimed at improving pensions, and all the more aimed at abolishing the pension genocide and the pensionist Chernobyl. We'll vote for it this time. Once again, I'm saying that we're doing this completely systematically, consistently and consciously. I emphasize this because some of those who are wearing shirts today have signed agreements with the IMF yesterday, including an increase in retirement age. Peter Mikolaiovich Simonenko of this rostrum demonstrated the appropriate document. We will vote in favour of both our bill and all the bills. Because we understand that if this pension Chernobyl is preserved, if 24 pension laws are preserved, there will be no justice even relative to pension insurance. So let's cancel the pension genocide, abolish 24 pension laws and implement a single pension insurance system. One more. Our native deutomas, who are trying to distort the Soviet past, to present, like total famines and Gulagas, a constant complaint about a Soviet legacy, I want to tell you today, don't lie. Because they got a country with a normal economy that was one of the top ten most developed countries in the world. Unlike today’s Ukraine, which is in the tail of the second hundredth. And the second. 24 pension laws, this is already an achievement in the paws of post-Radians Ukraine. Because the Soviet pension system was 100 times fairer because it had no difference in pension insurance tens of times as it is today. So, respectable colleagues! We will support legislative acts aimed at abolishing pension reform. I want to say that this problem is best solved through a bill that will be reported by Peter Mikolaiovich Simonenko, I am one of the authors of this bill. And so it allows for a return if not absolute justice in the assignment of a pension, at least relative. So we vote in favour of all the bills, including the Ukrainian Comparty Bill. Thank you.
ParlaMint-UA_2013-11-06-m0.u150	Thank you, Peter Stepanovich. Please sit down. The discussion is over. To conclude, a reporter, the national deputy of Ukraine, Rosenko, Paul Valeriyovich, is invited.
ParlaMint-UA_2013-11-06-m0.u151	Paul Rosenko, strike faction. Dear fellow Members of the People's Parliament, we hear very often from the speakers of the predominant factions that additional funds are needed to implement our bills. Then let's think about one number that the Pension Fund is giving us right now. That since the pension reform, the Pension Fund has won as much as one billion dollars. Remember that figure, one billion dollars? And now we're opening up the State Buyer, and we're looking at where do we get this money? And two weeks ago, the Secretary of State Procurement was told that the Supreme Administrative Court had signed an agreement to build its new office space for one billion 300 million dollars. And let's say, fellow members of the national MPs, we don't want to fall short of responsibility right now, not the scales of the two decisions we have today. The first is to restore pension rights to scientists, black people, women, military personnel, all categories of pensioners. And on other scales is to build a building for the Supreme Administrative Court. So which one of you is going to make a decision? I'm really curious to see this right now. Today, we are obliged to support this decision. We offer you compromise. Today this occurred from the rostrum of the Supreme Council of Ukraine. We propose, let's adopt this bill, let's restore the rights of our pensioners and let's cancel the system of special pensions for VIP pensioners. And on the basis of this bill, we're going to create a working group on the committee, and we're really going to work on the second reading of all the proposals that we can put into this bill. It's a compromise. Because if we don't make this decision today, the strike faction promises to make these bills before they're approved, we'll insist on adopting these decisions. Because we have the impression that the Party of Regions willfully refuses to raise pensions for our Ukrainians, for our pensioners. Because a rich pensioner goes to the polling station and votes with his heart, votes with his mind, and a poor pensioner is very easy to manipulate. The president's going to go to the rostrum and say, "We have such a great policy, I'll give you 100 dollars to retire." And the pensioner, yes, of course he's poor, he's unhappy, and he'll think about what the president actually gave him that tax. It's a banal voice bribe, it's a banal refusal to retire to our citizens. We do.
ParlaMint-UA_2013-11-06-m0.u152	When you're done, there'll be a line. The final word of the co-rapporteur is Head of the Committee on Pensioners, Veterans and Disabled Persons of Suskevitch Valeri Mihajlovich.
ParlaMint-UA_2013-11-06-m0.u153	Thank you. Once again, dear colleagues, I would like to say, the committee has certainly supported the situation that has to do with the elimination of the effects of pension reform, the so - called pension reform. And in this situation, which is voting today, I ask you to support the committee's decision. The Committee's decision on social policy, which was also actively supported by the bill. The point is that today we actually anticipate social justice in the accrual of pensions, so that we can anticipate what concerns issues related to the return of pension benefits that were prior to pension reform, and other issues relating to both the Chernobyl population and the military personnel that are systematically proposed today by the author of the bill to decide from the point of view of improving pension insurance. I mean, this is particularly important today, when unfortunately there is no constructive, real proposal from government institutions to deal with these issues. Please support this bill on behalf of the committee. Thank you.
ParlaMint-UA_2013-11-06-m0.u154	The reply is given to the national deputy, Alexander Kuzmuk.
ParlaMint-UA_2013-11-06-m0.u155	Dear colleagues! I am grateful to the author of the bill on his concern for the military and their future pensions, as for all pensioners. But if only I could believe in sincerity. A reference to what agreed with the Ministry of Defense has not been confirmed at this time. And I'll tell you why. There was a pension for reform after 20 years of service (it comes to the military institution at 17 years of age and retires at 37) of 50 percent, plus 3 percent for each year. Today, if it served 21 years and 6 months, it receives 53 percent and 3 percent each year. But in preparing such bills, we need to read article 12 of the Ukrainian Law on the Pension Insurance of Military Servants.
ParlaMint-UA_2013-11-06-m0.u156	Andrew Mohnik, Freedom faction. A word for replication. In return.
ParlaMint-UA_2013-11-06-m0.u157	Andrew Mohnik, faction of the All-Ukrainian Freedom Union. Dear Ukrainians! We're in the session room with you today, and we're seeing this vacchanal that was organized by the Stalinists, celebrating the hateful Soviet occupation regime. They still cannot accept that Ukraine, which they were killing, and Ukraine, which they occupied, and Ukraine, which they were starving to death, is an independent state, and their time is over. The All-Ukrainian Freedom Union has introduced to the Supreme Council of Ukraine a bill banning Communist ideology in Ukraine, as it should be in any European country. For example, in the Republic of Poland, the ban on communism is enshrined in the country’s constitution. And I think it's near when communism in Ukraine will be banned forever. Glory to Ukraine!
ParlaMint-UA_2013-11-06-m0.u158	Let's move on to making a decision. Honourable National Deputies, I am voting on a bill (registration number 2072a) to amend certain laws of Ukraine (to guarantee the rights to just retirement and to abolish certain rules of pension reform) for adoption as a basis. People's deputies, please vote. [[13:18:16]] For 210 The decision is not taken. The factions. Region Party 3, Fatherland 85, Vitalia Klicka Hit 37, Freedom 35, Ukraine Company 30, non-fractional 20. In accordance with article 19 of the Supreme Council of Ukraine’s Rules, honourable national MPs put to the vote the proposal of national deputy Alexia Kayda to continue the plenary session until the conclusion of the day’s agenda. People's deputies, please vote. [[13:19:06]] For-167 The decision is not taken. Factions: Region Party 4, Fatherland 83, Vitaly Klicka Strike 34, Freedom 35, Ukraine Company 0, non-fractional 11. The draft Act (registration No. 2294a) amending the Ukrainian Act "On mandatory public pension insurance" (registrations and conditions for retirement, appointment and payments in the past period) is under consideration. I'm voting on the proposal of the Fatherland faction to consider a reduced procedure. I'd like to take a look. Please vote. [[13:20:01]] For-167 Decision taken. The rapporteur is Ukrainian national deputy Simonenko Petr Mikolaiovich.
ParlaMint-UA_2013-11-06-m0.u159	In presenting the bill on behalf of our faction of 2294, the faction of the Company and I personally propose that we abolish the pension reform of this disgraceful and reinstate it, restore the retirement age for women to 55 years, for men to 60 years. As a result of limiting my ability and refusing to listen to Communists, what must be done in order to pay pensions in time. I want to explain to you why they don't want to hear the Communists. I have in my hands a collection of all these memos signed by an orange madman team. The signatures include Yushchenka, Timoshenko, Pinzenika, and Stelmak. What they're offering is those who want to ban the Company from speaking. These memoranda of cooperation with the International Monetary Fund write: "We will adopt pension reform, gradually cancel benefits, set retirement age for pensions, taking into account the evolution of the demographic situation and the state of life expectancy in Ukraine." Only Marazmatics do not see the people dying, and no one lives in Ukraine today. Next. It says here that our strategy is to continue to limit the growth of both minimum and average wages and pensions in the budget sector as well as other social transfers. We do not support the adoption by the Supreme Council of Ukraine of a bill that would provide for an increase in minimum wage and pensions to a level unacceptable to government finances. Any such bill will be dedicated to us. We'll cancel the penalty for pennies and fines in case people don't pay gas bills and utility bills. We're going to raise prices for natural gas and electricity and coal to get additional budget costs and reduce the need for subsidies. That's why, fellow Ukrainian citizens, these orange fools don't want me to tell you the whole truth in 10 minutes what they're doing with Ukraine. I can also give many other examples of what they wrote down here. I want to say, history is necessary.
ParlaMint-UA_2013-11-06-m0.u160	Let me finish.
ParlaMint-UA_2013-11-06-m0.u161	History will certainly bring criminal responsibility. If you read here another, the rest, so to speak, of the financial system of the Ministry of Economic Statistics, this would have to be by law to say that this is a change in the Family -- this is what it says here. So, Your Honor, I urge everyone today to support the Company faction and abolish this disgraceful pension reform by adopting draft Law 2294a.
ParlaMint-UA_2013-11-06-m0.u162	Thank you, Peter Mikolaiovich. The report invites the head of the Committee on Pensioners, Veterans, and Disabled Persons, Suškevich Valeriy Mihajlovich. Turn on the microphone, please.
ParlaMint-UA_2013-11-06-m0.u163	Thank you. Dear colleagues. As you can see, all the factions have joined in with what's being touched, let's say, let's say, to dissipate those positions, that sad pension reform that is currently under consideration today's meeting of the Supreme Council. Dear colleagues. Traditionally, the bill proposes to make changes that eliminate the negative discrimination against pension reform standards that were adopted in 2011 and that worsen the level of pensions of citizens. Here is the year of retirement, and the minimum pension age is set for the availability of an appropriate retirement pension period that was prior to pension reform. It's also a question of disabled people, what's concerned with the entitlement to disability pensions in terms of age, the presence of disabled persons in the second and third groups: men 25, women 20 years and so on. And certainly what's going on is the issues that relate to increasing the retirement age of women. The Committee on Pensioners, Veterans, and Disabled Persons recommends that the Supreme Council, on the basis of the vote on the committee, be determined by voting. Because the committee had a vote and the votes were distributed in a comparable manner. Today, the committee is proposing to determine the hall, but it is certainly traditional for the dissatisfaction of the national deputies of all factions as a result of pension reform. The Chief Scientific and Expert Authority of the Supreme Council's Apparatus provides a general conclusion that the bill needs to be finalized. Dear colleagues, after all, considering what's going on.
ParlaMint-UA_2013-11-06-m0.u164	Thank you. People's deputies please sign up for factions: two for, two against. The Fatherland faction, National Deputy Bondarenko.
ParlaMint-UA_2013-11-06-m0.u165	Dear friends! The Fatherland faction, Vladimir Bondarenko. In the last days, we have seen an interesting game in this room where there are few votes missing on the very important bills that relate to any aspect of this shameful reform. I think that everyone who votes and who's in this room and outside of it understands that today's authorities don't want to go back to the basic European standards of retirement. And whoever the bill is today, if he's improving at least a little bit of this security, we have to vote for it. I'm always against the political positions of the Communists, and that's known to everyone. But I'm going to vote for this bill because it's changing something in the right direction. I call on all my colleagues from Liberty and the Vitalia Clitchka faction and my colleagues in Fatherland, let's support this one today, and to those who are thus awakened, as they say, we will return soon. This is what citizens, destitute, debilitated, debilitated, deprived of their possessions in their lifetime, and today someone is living through the last days of poverty. And we, as the Ukrainian Parliament, cannot ignore these positions, nor can we go with that power together to the complete destruction of Ukraine and, above all, its national potential that is being realized today. Today, no pensions are paid, the benefits are cancelled, and if we support this, we will not be the parliament of Ukraine, but the parliament that destroys Ukraine. Let's support these positions that are in this bill today.
ParlaMint-UA_2013-11-06-m0.u166	National MP Simonenko Peter Mikolaiovich, faction of the Ukrainian Company.
ParlaMint-UA_2013-11-06-m0.u167	Dear voters! I want you to understand how the Soviet model of pension insurance differs from the current capitalist model. Soviet is the responsibility of the state for the standard of living of a veteran, and capitalist is the transfer of responsibility on the part of the workers themselves. What was the characteristic of the Soviet system? That's primarily the principle of justice, where, how many years worked and the level of the same pension. The principle of the responsibility of the working population to veterans who created jobs built factories and factories. This is also a job guarantee, the state guaranteed and, by the way, in Soviet times there were 27 million jobs in Ukraine, now less than 10 million. This is also a guarantee of timely retirement, respect for those who enjoyed the respect of society, were rewarded and named. This is also the level of wages, pensions have been increasing steadily, and the next element is why pensions have just been enough to raise living standards, and the state in Soviet times has severely controlled prices and tariffs. The capitalist system is primarily property stretched out, the goal is profiting at any price. The number of factories and factories are shrinking, the fewer jobs, the more jobless the oligarch is, the cheaper the labor force, the less it pays, and clearly, the higher the level of pension insurance is not properly secured. The level of wages is low, shadow economy, reform, reforms have driven workers outside Ukraine because between three and seven million are working outside Ukraine. Thus, given that the state and authority of the oligarchs is a temporary "chabbat" and that the IMF requires them to transfer the responsibility for pensions to the workers themselves, i.e. the accumulation system. So once again, I would like to say that what we need to do today is take the steps that the Company is offering, the anti-crisis measures to bring order to the state, then we'll have a sufficiently high level of retirement, and we'll be protected by the person who.
ParlaMint-UA_2013-11-06-m0.u168	The Vitalia Klitschka faction, People's Deputy Kaplin.
ParlaMint-UA_2013-11-06-m0.u169	Dear voters, dear colleagues! I'd like to say a few words about those bills that most have just failed, more specifically, the Party of Regions. The price of the question was only 400 million dollars. If you count how many Ukrainians your President Viktor Fedorovich Janukovic is costing, you'll see that this is exactly the same amount. One-and-a-half million dollars a day is spent on supporting the President, only to support the President of Ukraine personally, and 30 dollars, an average Ukrainian pensioner lives on 30 dollars a day. If you look at how much was stolen for the purchase of ambulances for the Ukrainian Ministry of Health, that is exactly half of that amount, 200 million dollars. We proposed a bill aimed at comparing a man with a deputy badge and in pursuit of an ordinary Ukrainian citizen. It was ruined by you. We suggested that we increase the pensions of the black people, increase the pensions of the disabled, the military -- you failed this bill. Look at the condition of our veterans we have today, let us say, our own. One minute of silence: 1,032 bracelets of average veteran pension, while in Belarus, 2050, and in Russia, 4,000. From 6,000 to 12,000 pensions for a veteran of the Great Homeland War in Europe. We demand that this bill be voted on by you. We realize that we have full responsibility for every pensioner who has built us a country. We all have to remind Catherinechuku, who said that the pensioners are going to protest. They're walking! And for example, the pensioners in my district, in Poltava, proved it. And I'd like to tell you, they're coming to the main protest in their lives in 2015 for the last 20 years. They will come to vote against Yanukovic, for Vitaly Klick. And there will be Ukraine without GMOs, without robbers, without majors.
ParlaMint-UA_2013-11-06-m0.u170	Yank People's Deputy, Freedom faction.
ParlaMint-UA_2013-11-06-m0.u171	Please pass the word to Ruslan Zelik.
ParlaMint-UA_2013-11-06-m0.u172	Ruslan Zelik. Turn on the microphone.
ParlaMint-UA_2013-11-06-m0.u173	Ruslan Zelik, the All-Ukrainian Freedom Union. I want to talk to our voters. Today, the "Freedom" faction of the All-Ukrainian Union has proposed, believing that the bills that were put on Wednesday are very important, especially in fact, on pension reform. But the Stalinist Communists didn't vote for the extension of their working day, for today to consider all these bills that are very important to people, so they're just doing political populism. Dear colleagues, look at how many bills there are today, by the way, by the way, the opposition and other Stalinist comrades in relation to the underprivileged pension reform. All of these bills are aimed at destroying that short-term pension reform. We're here to systematically destroy it, systematically undo it. But the basic thing is, these are even bills that are both populistic and that have a rational grain, and they're almost helping Ukrainian citizens, Ukrainian pensioners, to hear relief. So we're going to support all the bills proposed in this room and I want to say we're going to vote in favour of this bill. Because they found in it a rational grain that deals with disabled people, non-working people of the second, third group, and that they should have 25 years for men and 20 years for women. We will vote in favour of this bill. Thank you for your attention. Glory to Ukraine!
ParlaMint-UA_2013-11-06-m0.u174	Faction of the Party of the Regions, National Deputy Chechetov.
ParlaMint-UA_2013-11-06-m0.u175	Dear Igor Grigorovich, distinguished national deputies! I address the opposition. Tomorrow, the Company and you and the Company celebrated the Day of the Great October Socialist Revolution, went to a demonstration together, let's do, please give a gift to Company leader Petr Mikolayovich Simonenko, support the day before the Great October Socialist Revolution, and you show it. Show me you're nostalgic about the communist past. Please support Peter Mikolaiovich, yes.
ParlaMint-UA_2013-11-06-m0.u176	Thank you. The discussion is over. Let's move on to making a decision. People's deputies, please prepare. I'm voting on the draft Act (registration No. 2294a) amending the Ukrainian Act "On Public Pension Insurance" (registration and retirement, appointment and payments in the past) to be accepted as a basis. Please vote. [[B in m in s a l in]] [[13:35:36]] For-195 The decision is not taken. The factions. Region Party 2, Fatherland 77, Vitalia Klicka Strike 35, Freedom 34, Company 30, Postfaction 17. I'm voting on the proposal for re-reading to the committee. People's deputies, please vote. [[13:36:15.]] For-187 The decision is not taken. The factions. Regional Party - 0, Fatherland - 73, Vitalia Klicka - 35, Freedom - 34, Company - 30, Postfaction - 15. Ladies and gentlemen, let us consult with you. We can now consider with you the 10 decrees on the appointment of the Memorial and Jubilee dates without discussion. If we do not do so, we continue to keep the order of the day as we have it. But we need to understand that most of them are registered and ready for review early in the summer. Time is running out, and it is obvious that the content of their adoption will continue to be lost. Is it supported? We're going to need about 10 minutes to do that. [[B in m in s a l in]] Not supported. The draft Law (Registration No. 2129a) amending article 15 of the Ukrainian Law on the Status of War Veterans, Guaranteeing Their Social Protection (on the Social Protection of Families of Missing Military Workers) is being introduced. I'm making a proposal for a reduced procedure. [[13:38:00]] For-147 The decision is not taken. The rapporteur is the deputy head of the Committee on Pensioners, Veterans and Disabled Persons of Kunicin Sergei Volodymyrovich.
ParlaMint-UA_2013-11-06-m0.u177	Dear Chairman! Deputies! On February 15, the following year, 25 years have passed since the end of the Afghan war. 130,000 sons of Ukraine fought in Afghanistan, and another 60,000 carried out duties in 22 local conflicts involving the former Soviet Union. 3.5 thousand died in the Afghan war of the Ukrainians, and 8.5 thousand became disabled. Today, 1 in 5 is a disabled person. Twenty - five thousand Afghan veterans died 25 years after the Afghan war, with an average age of 50. Why did Deputy Suškević and I introduce this law? Three and a half thousand mothers who lost their children are now receiving a pension of 1.5 thousand dollars. A mother who lost just the way she had was a child! If we're 50 years old, our parents are 70 or 80 years old, and this mother gets as much as a thousand dollars. I want to tell you, honourable parliamentarians, that out of the 3.5 thousand families that have died, there are 2,000 466 families left, out of 741 widows left 639, and 175 families left who have died in local conflicts. So for today, 3,000 families are the people who have stayed and lost their children. If you looked at these mothers, you would realize that even if we gave them a $100,000 pension, we would never give them their children back. They can't go anywhere, they can't heal. And I can tell you when some deputies tell me, and where do we get the money? There's always no money in the budget. Think about it. Every year 200,000 war veterans die in Ukraine. Two hundred thousand! Three years ago, there were 2 million 700,000 war veterans in Ukraine. Now it's $698,000. A million in three years! A family in which a wartime participant dies or a wartime participant is automatically left with benefits. Counting that 200,000 people die from war, and we're talking about 3,000 families who lost children, what are we talking about? There will never be enough money in the budget! As long as we're working, we know everyone here, and the same Ephraim, and Chechetov, and all the governors here, Greenewecki, we worked. There was never enough money, boys. I just want to tell you that the President of Ukraine, by his decree next year -- the 25th anniversary of the end of the war in Afghanistan -- has declared a year of respect for members of the fighting in other states. Russia has not even instituted such a celebration! No republic of the former Soviet Union has voted but Ukraine! You and I in this room have voted to celebrate the 25th anniversary of the war. And if someone gets their hand back today to those miserable mothers who lost their children, even if they don't vote in the first reading, we're not proposing with Suškević 1.5 thousand dollars, we're going to make 5,000 dollars out of January 1. And I'm sure (let them live long) that from January 1st there will be even less. And we can take the basis, vote, sit down with the government, with the committee, and find compromise to help these people at least morally and materially, because most of them live in villages, the villages die, there's no one behind those graves, the guys who died in the war to look after. That's why I, the science-expert department, supported our bill. But it wrote not to be attached to the figure, but to the minimum of living, to set six living minimums, which may be inflation. And I am speaking to the conscience of all of you, I know that the opposition is voting, I know that the Communists are voting, I know what the Lithuanian Committee is voting for, we have been supported by Vladimir Mikhailovich. I'm talking to the regions that I'm told, guys, there's no money in the budget. To General Kuzmuk, to the Twin, to all of you, to the generals and those, you know what this war meant. And, God forbid, we Afghans should be veterans and the last war for Ukraine. Let us take the basis of this bill, give these people some hope, and vote in the first reading, work it out, compromise it, and help these families in any way from January 1st. Thank you for your attention.
ParlaMint-UA_2013-11-06-m0.u178	Ladies and gentlemen, is there a question for the rapporteur? None. Have a seat, please. People's deputies would like to sign up for factions. The Turkish national deputy, the Fatherland faction.
ParlaMint-UA_2013-11-06-m0.u179	Please give the word to a veteran of the Afghan War of Mikola Tomenko.
ParlaMint-UA_2013-11-06-m0.u180	The word is given to the national MP, Mikola Tomenko.
ParlaMint-UA_2013-11-06-m0.u181	Dear colleagues, I want to support my brothers, Sergey Kunicin, with whom we started our military path in one of the training units in Ashgabad, and to support those mothers and those close to us who lost our comrades, colleagues, not just those who died in Afghanistan, but at all other hot spots. And I would like to talk about the war, how we live, how we love, how we honor those people who went through the army and the wars, so that today we can stand together, because I understand that everyone, in one impulse, stood up, applauded at 10.05, so that today we can all vote and honor those mothers who have become hostages of the disgraceful anti-national politics of several members of the Communist Party's political party who sent young people to Afghanistan, playing geopolitical games. And by the way, in front of the Ukrainian guys, none of the heads of the Communist Party of the Soviet Union ever apologized, because they thought we should have been used and maybe not used for any more of these hot spots. I am absolutely convinced that this is not the amount of money we discussed when it comes to overall pension reform. Sergei is absolutely right when he speaks of what. I'm especially dating and, to the extent possible, helping the mothers or parents of the boys who died in Afghanistan. A tragedy like that, I'd say, not even Soviet, but Russian-imperial treatment of people who went through a war has been preserved. You know, in the Russian Empire, the kings did what they did? They once a year had a barrel of liquor, had the opportunity to drink once a year, well, so well, to drink so well that their faces were filled, so that in the end they screamed for the king. So now it's almost the same. So once a year the porridge is free to drink those veterans, they're 80-90 years old, where they're gonna drink, and they're gonna eat the porridge. And for a year, they forgot again. Again, mothers and parents have returned to their real lives, to a village or town where there are no pensions, where there is no work, and no one needs them. This is a completely real human approach, because in this case we as a state are taking responsibility for the criminal decisions of the previous state, and we have to protect these people, not so many of them are left. The Fatherland faction will unanimously support the bill. And I'm convinced that all those people who today have been pained for liberating Kiev from the fascist-German invaders have shown the same solidarity with us and are supporting the participants in another war, who are still able to support it. Thank you.
ParlaMint-UA_2013-11-06-m0.u182	National Deputy Shevchenko, Freedom faction.
ParlaMint-UA_2013-11-06-m0.u183	Please give the floor to Deputy Zelik.
ParlaMint-UA_2013-11-06-m0.u184	Turn on the microphone of the Zelik People's Deputy.
ParlaMint-UA_2013-11-06-m0.u185	Ruslan Zelik, the All-Ukrainian Freedom Union. I would like to remind everyone that the solution to the war in Afghanistan lies on the conscience of that criminal communist regime that existed in the Soviet Union and the blood of those boys who died from all corners of that Union and Ukrainians, including, today, those representatives of the Communist Party who are sitting in this room today. Society, we are always in favour of supporting such bills and will vote in favour of the bill. Because we're counting on the state to guarantee and guarantee as the rights of material and social and veterans of war, and of disabled people, and of black people, and of Afghans, and of children of war, including. And so are those children sitting in concentration camps, Soviet concentration camps with their parents, and today they don't have that pension, and they don't have that opportunity to secure their social rights from the state. We will vote in favour of the bill. And I want to say that the only thing that bothers us is that the authors have a fixed rate of aid for this 5,000 and 10,000. In our view, it would be better to attach it to the minimum of living. So I think in the rest of the inflation process, that money wouldn't be undervalued. This is just our wish for the drafter. Thank you for your attention. Glory to Ukraine!
ParlaMint-UA_2013-11-06-m0.u186	National MP Paul Rosenko, Vitalia Klitschka faction.
ParlaMint-UA_2013-11-06-m0.u187	Please pass the word to Alexander Mochkov.
ParlaMint-UA_2013-11-06-m0.u188	People's MP Mochkov.
ParlaMint-UA_2013-11-06-m0.u189	Dear Chairman, distinguished national MPs! The Vitalia Klicka faction, of course, supports the amendment to article 15 of the Ukrainian Law on the Status of War Veterans, the Guarantee of Their Social Protection. Protecting and ensuring a decent standard of living for one of the least socially protected categories of pensioners, mothers, wives, and children of military personnel who have died, lost their job, is an essential element of the social protection program. We think that we need to adopt this bill as a basis and work with the observations of the Scientific and Scientific Administration and the second-reading committee. Thank you for your attention.
ParlaMint-UA_2013-11-06-m0.u190	National Deputy Peter Cibenko, faction of the Ukrainian Company.
ParlaMint-UA_2013-11-06-m0.u191	The faction of the Communist Party of Ukraine, head of the Ukrainian Veterans Organization, Peter Cibenko. Dear colleagues, I would like to begin with what I say as the head of the Ukrainian Veterans' Organization and as a Communist deputy, to say, "Glory to the liberators of Ukraine!" Praise be to all who have fought against fascism! An everlasting memory of those who have paid the most precious price for today’s peaceful day! Dear colleagues, regarding the bill that we are currently considering. I want to say that the faction of the Communist Party of Ukraine will certainly support this bill, as it always supports all social bills aimed at the social protection of human work. I'll say more: this phrase has not yet been spoken today, but I'm just going to say what a shame we've had so long ago and still exist, to this day. Until recently, the mother, who had sent her son to Afghanistan and he died there, was compensated for 25 percent of the cost of living. So the price of a dead son is 225 dollars. Clearly, then, this reproach must be corrected and this matter must be resolved. But I want to draw your attention to someone else. Dear colleagues, we are now trying to improve the Law on the Status of War Veterans, the Guarantee of Social Protection. The only law that unites in its ranks is that of all those who defend the homeland. So I want to say that a bill has now appeared in the walls of the Supreme Council of Ukraine that proposes to destroy the Law on the Status of War Veterans, to guarantee their social protection. His registration number 3137. It is suggested that war participants, including the frontists of the Great War of the Fatherland, put alongside the beekeeper, the gardener, and the man who never worked, thereby depriving this honorable part of our society of the status of a participant in the war. The other one. It is proposed that state aid be eliminated to the public organizations of veterans. To write it down accordingly that the State can assist the public organizations of veterans, instead of the direct rule that is written down today, that the State is providing financial and other assistance to veteran organizations. So once again, I want to say that the faction of the Company of Ukraine will support this bill. And for those who follow a different course today and who scold for it.
ParlaMint-UA_2013-11-06-m0.u192	Thank you, Peter Stepanovich. Have a seat, please. National MP Jaroslav Suhi, faction of the Party of the Regions.
ParlaMint-UA_2013-11-06-m0.u193	I have one minute. Thank you, mate, I'll take one minute. Dear Sergey Volodymyrovich, you have not fulfilled our agreements on the committee. Let me remind you, on the committee we asked you to take the bill to the declaratory. You didn't take him. We asked you to focus in your bill on material aid, on the social protection of soldiers' mothers. You wrote it all down, there's 5,000, there's 10,000. Third. We also asked Paul Rosenko to give a witness, concentrate on the minimum of living. Let's increase the cost of living to a minimum or provide soldiers' mothers with a percentage minimum of living according to the basic law on the loss of a breadwinner. There's nothing complicated. Make such changes, and we will support them.
ParlaMint-UA_2013-11-06-m0.u194	The factions have been completed since the faction. People’s deputies have a desire to speak? Please sign up. National MP Dzardanov, faction of the Ukrainian Company.
ParlaMint-UA_2013-11-06-m0.u195	Please refer to the First Secretary of the Central Committee of the Communist Party, Petr Simonenko.
ParlaMint-UA_2013-11-06-m0.u196	The word is given to Peter Simonenko, a faction of the Company of Ukraine.
ParlaMint-UA_2013-11-06-m0.u197	Dear citizens of Ukraine, I inform you that the faction supports this bill. But what we are concerned about today is not only the adoption of this bill, but how it will be implemented, and how the current political system and the system of governance are able to implement that decision, which I hope will be made today. And here I would like to point out once again that, by adopting such responsible laws, unfortunately, but you, our voters, should understand that this system of power organization is unable to do all that is being adopted in the Supreme Council today, is being declared as supporting your interests, the honourable voters. How can we be assured today that when we do not pay our pensions at the proper time, workers do not get a salary when today we have a debt of social benefits, including in hospital, that almost three billion dollars have already been paid? When we have a 40 billion hole in the Pension Fund, the government budget hole today is up to 40 billion. And already in November, as in December, people will not receive a salary. What led to this, and why? We didn't have that kind of trouble 20 years ago! All the factories and factories worked, people worked peacefully, paid their wages at the proper time, if the manager kept his salary for two days, he was expelled from work, and tried. Today, for months, no payment has been made, and no oligarch has yet been imprisoned by the same companies. I want us to understand today that it is the responsibility of the political system and the organization of authority that depends on it, and who is in power today? With the power of the oligarchs and the oligarchs, they only care that their factories work and make profits for them, and that people use them, I apologize for the cheap labor they provide for the same oligarchs. And today, oligarchs play a so - called position of interest. And when they came and were in power with the same oranges, they were doing three skins of the same workers and peasants they're talking about today and they're kind of taking care of. I would like to stress once again that there is a radical need to change both the system of governance and the economic model that can ensure that all these requirements are met. And to do that, you have to get it back into state property, all of these businesses that you didn't build, you just took it. If there is money, please build up, and we will support you. And what was stolen from people today was returned to state property. Today, to ensure normal conditions in price policies, especially in energy, and for the same gas, and for electricity. To protect the Ukrainian market today, the Ukrainian producer, whether small business or large, worked in Ukraine rather than looking for a piece of bread outside Ukraine. And the examples of these are very many, like the program that we've offered the Anti-crisis Companies, is the only program today that will be able to solve all the other issues. That's why the faction voted in favour of this bill.
ParlaMint-UA_2013-11-06-m0.u198	Let me finish.
ParlaMint-UA_2013-11-06-m0.u199	cautions that, unfortunately, he, like others, will not be executed on children of war, disabled people, black people, Afghans, because the political regime and political power must be changed today. Thank you.
ParlaMint-UA_2013-11-06-m0.u200	I'm continuing the plenary session for 15 minutes. National MP Blackwolf, Fatherland faction.
ParlaMint-UA_2013-11-06-m0.u201	Alexander Blackwolf, Fatherland. Dear friends, it was very cynical now that the Communists said that mothers had sent their children to Afghanistan. Can you imagine one mother sending her son to Afghanistan? Obviously, we did everything we could. They didn't get there. Another problem is that the authorities did not tell the children and children where they were going, the solicitors themselves did not know where they were going, for many of them would not have gone there if they had the opportunity. And for avoiding this, they would be persecuted with criminal responsibility. So to say that mothers sent their children it's incredibly cynical, it's incredibly embarrassing, and I'm sure that those speaking out from the Communists who said that they should apologize to the Ukrainian people, and the Ukrainians died more in this war than the others. Because they were called more and directed more because they were the best soldiers who really were able to carry out the assigned tasks. Unfortunately, it's always the Communists. The Ukrainians have always suffered for this because they did not have their own state. And the main problem of Ukraine, and the main problem of all mothers, is that Ukraine did not have its own state. So someone lost their children, someone worried that they might die, someone worried that they might even be taken into the army. Everyone was afraid, and for all of them it was a terrible 20 years of Soviet Union involvement, Soviet Union aggression in Vietnam. I-I-I-I'm in Afghanistan. Dear friends, the fact that we have gained independence guarantees us from the future of such wars, and guarantees that we will not have to resolve these issues in the future. That's what we have to remember and stay away from both Russia and the communists, and from any extremist movement in general. But now we have to support all the people who took part in it and those who did. their parents, those who have died, because it is obvious that the state should care for such people as the Afghans, such as the veterans of the war of the Great Natives, such as the UPA soldiers, such as the Chernobyls in the future, when the issue of serving the state, now the Ukrainian State, has done so, and they know that they too will be treated with respect. Thank you for your attention.
ParlaMint-UA_2013-11-06-m0.u202	Thank you. People's MP Mirny, Freedom faction.
ParlaMint-UA_2013-11-06-m0.u203	Alexander Mirny, the All-Ukrainian Freedom Union. I did not want to take the floor, but the Communists helped make a decision. Would you please raise your hands, which one of you served in the army? Huh? Peter Mikolaiovich, raise your hand, lie again! Do you know what it's like for a mother to send a child to Afghanistan? Do you know what that is? Mothers became gray in a month! When you tell me what you sent! You sent them, your party sent them! And now you're living a lie, I'm lying all the time! You're telling me you're going back to the nation, you're voting for the Agrarian Foundation, a private structure, you're taking people away! Do you vote for social laws? Tell me! And you don't want any votes, even the four-vote party for the extension of the session, you didn't give a vote! What are you talking about?Oh, my God! Communists, sufferers! But you must bow down to those men who, at your command in 1943, drowned with the teeth of the Germans to carry out this criminal order! And those people who went out in 1979 and those people who came out in 1989! Don't you freaks come out of there! Other people came out! You're talking about it, animals! I want to tell you that there will be a moment when you answer: both for the wars in Afghanistan and for the Great Motherland, as you call them, for these crimes! And believe me, none of you will get away with it! Glory to Ukraine!
ParlaMint-UA_2013-11-06-m0.u204	National Deputy Larissa Baiduk, Ukrainian Company faction.
ParlaMint-UA_2013-11-06-m0.u205	Please pass the word to Shugal, the national deputy.
ParlaMint-UA_2013-11-06-m0.u206	Put Roman Shugal on the microphone.
ParlaMint-UA_2013-11-06-m0.u207	Roman Shugalo, faction of the Communist Party of Ukraine Indeed, the question that we are considering right now is extremely important. Now, about the problems of the soldiers' mothers whose sons died in the army, few talk. Even in an independent Ukraine in 2003, 193 military personnel were killed during military service or military service. For parents whose sons have not returned home alive, the condition of death has no formal significance. The pain of losing is not diminishing, but it affects the status of family members of the dead. Yes, a family of war veterans who have died in service has been expanded by the Ukrainian Law on the Status of War Veterans, the Guarantee of Their Social Protection, which contains more than 20 benefits: free medicine, sanitation, and cash assistance. On the other hand, family members who have died or died while serving are entitled to benefits under the Ukrainian Law on the Social and Legal Protection of Soldiers and Members of Their Families and, of course, the scope of these benefits is much lower. Why do these categories have different statuses, and why is there so much stockpiling today? I reaffirm once again that the faction of the Communist Party of Ukraine will support the bill and vote for it in the first reading. Thank you.
ParlaMint-UA_2013-11-06-m0.u208	People's Deputy Krivetsky, Freedom faction.
ParlaMint-UA_2013-11-06-m0.u209	Igor Krivetsky, the All-Ukrainian Freedom Union. We will support this bill. We suggest we stop the discussion and put it to a vote. And what I want to say is that it's a shame to talk about this right now, how painful it was for our soldiers to die, and the Company wants to say that it was a disgrace to our soldiers who fought in Afghanistan.
ParlaMint-UA_2013-11-06-m0.u210	National Deputy Igor Alexeyev, Ukrainian Company faction.
ParlaMint-UA_2013-11-06-m0.u211	I want to say that as the person who jumped on the rostrum here, it is the person who served in the USSR Armed Forces 22.5 calendar years. I know what military service is. And the Soviet contingent's presence in Afghanistan was a geopolitical reason and a necessity that was then. Today, when Americans have occupied Afghanistan and today drug trafficking is going through Afghanistan throughout Europe, including Ukraine, and is maiming our children, that is not what these truth-lovers want to talk about today. I would also like to answer and say to those who are jumping to the rostrum, I think that the mental state of which can be questioned is that the Communist Party of Ukraine and its faction in Parliament will not be subjected to these provocations. Thank you for your attention.
ParlaMint-UA_2013-11-06-m0.u212	National Deputy Oksana Kaletnik, Ukrainian Company faction.
ParlaMint-UA_2013-11-06-m0.u213	You know, I wasn't prepared to speak either, because I think, you know, there's not even the strength to go out on this platform, because you're looking at it, it's mostly used simply for pierra. One is going out, one is saying, the other is beautiful in front of the cameras, and the action is completely different. And you know, but the exciting moment was this speech by Mr. Peacekeeper. I respect you at some point because when you discuss some laws, you are shown to be an expert, but when you go out to the rostrum and, in fact, by sticking your eyes up, you start jumping and not understanding, not giving a clear assessment of all the circumstances and history of the state where you are also your roots, where your family has grown up. I think you didn't come from space here, and the history of the past is the story of our people. We're all out of there. You know what you said. Today, there were two rumors that no mother had sent her child and that it was in need and that, indeed, the State had punished. You know, I grew up in that country that was called the Soviet country. I have a lot of friends and acquaintances of my parents who actually served in Afghanistan at the time. And I remember them walking. They went to serve the Fatherland. [[B in m in s a l in]] I remember the words. [[B in m in s a l in]] Have patience to listen! This is your upbringing! I recall the words of the classic Joseph Addison, who said that there was no more clear sign of a decline in social morality than the lack of commitment of its inhabitants to serve their countrymen. I remember that this is how the nation’s policies, the great state, in which we all grew up, really had the power, which really put a lot in place for us to even sit in this room with you today. And today, when we say that everything can only be done under duress, it means that we do not understand at all that the state is, first of all, serving its homeland! You can smile. You can, as they say, you know, really walk the flowers here, but we live in the country, we live in the country! And today, by our attitude and simply ignoring the understanding that we should have any respect for the past, we are indeed destroying the state today! A few more years, and we'll see what's left of it!
ParlaMint-UA_2013-11-06-m0.u214	Thank you. A word for the people's MP to the Peacekeeper. His name was mentioned.
ParlaMint-UA_2013-11-06-m0.u215	Dear colleagues, as you call yourself. I'm in charge of hysterics and everything. I feel the pain of the thousands of people who are my brothers. My mother, when I arrived on vacation, met me with gray hair and died at the age of 53. Thanks to the Soviet Union, I went to work at the age of 14 and eight months! And he took permission from the RV and the Minors ’ Committee because I had a mother who was sick and my younger brother, who was 7 years of age! And I had to feed this family. And I received education from the Soviet Union at 25 years of age at night school. Because I had to earn for myself, for my brother and for my child! And what are my fighting brothers! On February 15, we meet, those who remain alive, and we call you not an evil, silent word! Thank you.
ParlaMint-UA_2013-11-06-m0.u216	The closing word of the rapporteur, deputy head of the Committee on Pensioners, Veterans and Disabled Persons, Kunicin Sergey Volodymyrovich.
ParlaMint-UA_2013-11-06-m0.u217	Deputies! I'm asking you to calm down. You know, my dear colleagues, strangely enough, I am grateful to all of you because the main thing is that the problem of people who have lost children, families who have died is that they have lost their health, they are not indifferent to each faction. By the way, I'd like to say, Mirni said about this, Mirny, who was speaking, he was a soldier in Afghanistan in 1979. He didn't say that. And he was in Chernobyl. That's how we're different. Do you understand? So the thing is, they're sitting here in this room, which is embarrassing, Misha, Chechtev, sorry I said that. You know, you Communists are sitting, "Freedom," "Paternality," "BITCH," why did the "regions" run? You're a border guard, wouldn't you be ashamed if a faction of regions didn't vote for these 3,000 families? [[Applause]] When I look at these mothers, they can't go, they can't go to the hospital, they can't go anywhere. Go out to the church near the Memorial to the Afghans, where the mother stands, weeps, says: “Whatever you do to us, do to us. Every time I give them 200 bracelets, because I'm ashamed, I'm as MPs as Klitschka, like Yatzenuk, like the others, to give the cars to those 20 guys to buy blind, lame, because it's embarrassing how I can get 30,000 when a kid who's 18 years old gets 2,000 and says, "Two wheels away from Tavria, I'm making a pension, and mother gets 1 and a half thousand dollars." What's this about, who sent it? They've got five to seven years to live! What will they expect when the budget comes? And I'm really ashamed that if the "regions" don't vote, the whole country will have to know where the money is, billions of us are going, 80 billion are going to Euro-2012 and all the problems in Afghanistan. [[Applause]] And to give to all families, 20,000 children who fought there, apartments and 12,000 who had no legs, no eyes — a car — would need 5 billion dollars of everything. And we say there's no money! So what should the people who fought wait for when the money will be? Therefore I call upon you all to vote, and let there be those on your conscience, if there are not enough voices against. Glory to Ukraine!
ParlaMint-UA_2013-11-06-m0.u218	Honorable National MPs mentioned three factions: Party of regions, faction of Communists and Freedoms. Are you going to make the lines? Let's do it in a row. [[B in m in s a l in]] Chečetov Mikhailo Vasilovich, then Simonenko Petr Mikolaiovich, then "Freedom". And we vote. In a minute. These three factions were mentioned. [[B in m in s a l in]] Read the Rules, national MP.
ParlaMint-UA_2013-11-06-m0.u219	The party of the regions bows its head to the immortal feat of a great Soviet soldier who protected the homeland and saved the world from the Fascist plague and to Afghan soldiers who carried out the sacred order of the Family. Yes, there was an order then, and in the interest of the State, they served there, as they said, behind the river. With regard to the support of Afghan warriors, their families, we will never adopt empty laws, papers, then laugh at us, and pay nothing. The Cabinet of Ministers will introduce a real bill, which will be supported by money, and Afghan soldiers will experience the real assistance of the State and mother of Afghan soldiers. But it's not gonna be a pier, it's gonna be real help, yeah. Thank you.
ParlaMint-UA_2013-11-06-m0.u220	National Deputy Peter Simonenko, faction of the Ukrainian Company.
ParlaMint-UA_2013-11-06-m0.u221	Simonenko, the faction of the Company. I really confirm that the patriotic sentiments of the Soviet people who fought against the fascist invaders were such that they were willing to bite the fascists. And they had every reason to do that. And this is the brave people of the Soviets who won the Fascists in this terrible Great Homeland War. And those who today serve the interests of the bandits and modern fascists have killed those who bite the fascists with their teeth. And by 1953, by 1956, in the territory of Ukraine and the shelters that they had always fought so hard, they were trying to destroy the Ukrainian people. What we need to understand today is what has been happening and what is happening in our country today. That's why we Communists will stand in the defense of our patriots and heroes of the Great Homeland War. And we will never let our memory be burned, including in future generations of Ukrainian citizens. And we are convinced that today we are supported by all the veterans and citizens of Ukraine who are in the defense of Ukraine's future. Thank you.
ParlaMint-UA_2013-11-06-m0.u222	Representative of the Freedom faction, Mohnik.
ParlaMint-UA_2013-11-06-m0.u223	Andrew Mohnik, faction of the All-Ukrainian Freedom Union. I understand that the Stalinists are preparing an alibi for Nuremberg 2. Because sooner or later he will be. Because the crimes they committed and the killing of more than twenty and a half million Ukrainians, they deserve punishment and the punishment will certainly come. And the fact that the teeth of the fascists are torn down is really what Zhukov was saying was, "What the hell are you doing with these hoochs, they're all traitors, the more in Dniepre they're going to sink, the less they're going to have to call in Siberia after the war." These are the words of the so - called victory marshal, who tried to destroy as many Ukrainians as possible so that after the war he would not have problems with him. And when they were armed, it was already said here. Anatoly Dimarov wrote about it. They put half a brick and sent it for tanks. So know and remember, the first bill is the ban on communist ideology, which will be voted here, the second is the 'Nürnberg Process-2' over communism. Glory to Ukraine!
ParlaMint-UA_2013-11-06-m0.u224	I'm voting on the draft Act (Registration No. 2129a) amending article 15 of the Ukrainian Law on the Status of War Veterans, Guaranteeing Their Social Protection (on the Social Protection of Families of Missing Military Workers) for adoption as a basis. Please vote. [[14:19:31]] For 176 The decision is not taken. The factions. Region Party 5, Parentage Party 66, Vitalia Klicka Impact 35, Freedom 32, Ukraine Company 30, non-fractional 8. Ladies and gentlemen, today at 3 p.m. in the session hall of the Supreme Council of Ukraine, there will be parliamentary hearings on the theme "The callous regime between Ukraine and the EU: prospects and new opportunities for Ukrainian citizens". The morning session of the Supreme Council of Ukraine is closed. Tomorrow we'll continue our work at 10 o'clock.
