ParlaMint-UA_2013-07-03-m1.u1	Ladies and gentlemen, please sit down. Please sit down and prepare for registration. Turn on the "Race" system. [[16:14:17]] There are 384 national deputies registered in the hall. I declare the evening session of the Supreme Council of Ukraine open. The draft Decree No. 2356a on Parliamentary Hearing Recommendations on the Status of Enforcement of Decisions in Ukraine is under consideration. A 20-number committee project. How will we consider this question? Short-term procedure. Anyone who supports a reduced procedure, please vote. [[16:15:15]] For-144 Against -54, held - 0, did not vote - 182. The decision is not taken. I ask the MPs to sit down and vote. So I'm voting on question 2356a for a summary procedure so that you can hear. Please vote. I'm asking you to sit down and work. [[16:16:06]] For-163 Against 19, held – 0, not voted – 196. Decision taken. The factions. Reports the head of the Committee on Legal Policy, Valérie Volodymyrovich Pisarenko. Please.
ParlaMint-UA_2013-07-03-m1.u2	Thank you. Dear Vladimir Vasilovich! Dear colleagues! On May 22, 2013, there were parliamentary hearings on "The state of execution of judgments in Ukraine". The participants in the parliamentary hearings acknowledged the problem. One of the defining tasks not only of the judiciary, but also of the state system, in general, of the execution of judicial decisions, is one of the main criteria by which citizens assess the ability, efficiency and integrity of power. Speaking from the Parliamentary rostrum, they repeatedly stressed that the execution of a court’s decision was an integral part of the right to a fair trial. The execution of a court decision as the final stage of the trial embodies the rules of law and strengthens their authority. Having examined the state of enforcement of decisions in Ukraine and the statistics of various departments at parliamentary hearings, the participants in the parliamentary hearings came to a disheartening conclusion, one of the objective reasons for the unsatisfying status of the enforcement of court decisions was that the participants in the hearing were to be dismissed from the court. The Committee of the Supreme Council of Ukraine on Legal Policy in the course of parliamentary hearings and work on the draft recommendations concluded that there was a need for a qualitatively new approach to the execution of decisions in the State. First of all, it is necessary to identify the most effective and rational place of government executive service in the system of authorities. According to world standards, the process of justice begins at the time of the court’s appeal and ends with the execution of a court decision. In view of the social sensitivity of parliamentary hearings, participants negatively appreciated the indifferent attitude of the executive branch of authority toward the affected issue. Thus, no minister took part in the parliamentary hearings, which shows the undue attention of the Cabinet of Ministers to the issues raised. In view of what has been said, members of Parliament’s hearings recommended that the Cabinet of Ministers undertake an analysis of the activities of the State Executive Service and take steps to address the causes that have a negative impact on the enforcement of decisions in Ukraine, to deal with the reform of the state system.
ParlaMint-UA_2013-07-03-m1.u3	Finish up.
ParlaMint-UA_2013-07-03-m1.u4	to discuss the reform of the State Executive Service system and to introduce appropriate legislation for the consideration of the Supreme Council of Ukraine, to develop and submit draft laws for consideration by the Supreme Council of Ukraine on the provision of adequate social status and legal protection for the employees of the State Executive Service. The other one. The Office of the Attorney General of Ukraine: to strengthen the supervision of the legality of the activities of officials of the State Executive Service. Third. The Committee of the Supreme Council on Legal Policy: To deal with questions about the relevance of subordination.
ParlaMint-UA_2013-07-03-m1.u5	Finish it, finish it, finish it.
ParlaMint-UA_2013-07-03-m1.u6	To deal with the relevance of subordination of the State Executive Service to the judicial branch of power. As a result of the study, draft a bill to amend legislation to determine the place of the Ukrainian State Executive Service in the system of authorities. Please support and approve the proposed draft Parliamentary Hearing Recommendations. Thank you.
ParlaMint-UA_2013-07-03-m1.u7	Please sign up for discussion by factions. The Vitalia Klitschka faction, the national deputy of Palamarczuk.
ParlaMint-UA_2013-07-03-m1.u8	Please pass the word to Rosenku.
ParlaMint-UA_2013-07-03-m1.u9	Please hand over Paul Rosenck.
ParlaMint-UA_2013-07-03-m1.u10	Paul Rosenco, Vitaly Caller's Faction. And I can say that unfortunately, parliamentary hearings on the execution of court decisions did not answer the main question: and firstly, the Cabinet of Ministers of Ukraine, the Pension Fund of Ukraine, the social policy bodies, the execution of those decisions of the courts, the mass decisions of the courts that are taken in behalf of the citizens and which the state authorities do not support in the first place. All parliamentary hearings and, as a result, the decision to approve parliamentary hearing recommendations have resulted in only one: the influence that the State executive service will have on it. Sadly, though, there will be no improvement in the enforcement of court decisions. Do you really think that if the State Executive Service moves to the judicial branch of power, that would give the Cabinet of Ministers or the Pension Fund a decision on social benefits? But they will not, for primarily because the Supreme Council of Ukraine passed the so - called Law to guarantee the State’s enforcement of judicial decisions, which provided for a mechanism of non-execution by the State of these judicial decisions. Therefore, in the decisions of the parliamentary hearings, the first decision would be for the Supreme Council of Ukraine to repeal this shameful law on the seventh occasion. Second, it would be a decision to oblige the Cabinet of Ministers and the Pension Fund to execute the decisions of the courts against the Chernobylites, pensioners, children of war, and another multimillion - dollar army of socially unprotected workers. That's why the strike faction won't vote for it.
ParlaMint-UA_2013-07-03-m1.u11	Finish up.
ParlaMint-UA_2013-07-03-m1.u12	That's why the strike faction will not vote in favour of this decision, because its execution will in no way allow our citizens to realize their right to enforce their decisions.
ParlaMint-UA_2013-07-03-m1.u13	Freedom Union, faction, Marcinks. Please.
ParlaMint-UA_2013-07-03-m1.u14	Please pass the word to the Schneitzer.
ParlaMint-UA_2013-07-03-m1.u15	Please, the People's Deputies of the Magnificent.
ParlaMint-UA_2013-07-03-m1.u16	Oleg Knaczykki, the All-Ukrainian Freedom Union. Dear colleagues! I was also a participant in parliamentary hearings and, indeed, the issue is very painful, very acute, with regard to the enforcement of judicial decisions, because as the last stage of justice, it violates citizens' own right to just justice. But the problem was highlighted at parliamentary hearings repeatedly, which was not really suggested by a mechanism that would address the issue. Because it's only about reordering the State Executive Service, as it was at parliamentary hearings, not under judicial authority, but under the State Court, but as you know, the State Court Administration is an authority of the State Executive. That is, we are transferring from one State executive authority to another State executive authority. That's it. setting up this issue will not solve this problem. No mechanisms have been proposed, namely, the quality of court decisions. The point was made that, indeed, what had already been said. that Parliament itself imposes a moratorium on the enforcement of court decisions and that it is not possible to enforce them later. To date, government executives are actually registering government executives and without any authority. And also with regard to the draft ruling, I would like to draw attention to what is very mildly said for the prosecution. Because I've had this problem myself on several occasions, and in fact, the State Executive Service is taking measures to execute it, the debtor is not doing it, he's directing it to the prosecutor's office, and in the prosecutor's office, it's dying. The Public Prosecutor’s Office simply leaves it to the State’s executioner rather than to decide on the matter of a criminal offence. Therefore, it is only by subjugating the body to another body that will solve nothing in this matter, but rather by seeking ways, in fact.
ParlaMint-UA_2013-07-03-m1.u17	Finish up.
ParlaMint-UA_2013-07-03-m1.u18	We need to look for ways, in fact, to fill the execution process itself and to fill the State Executive Service with real powers so that they can enforce judicial decisions. Thank you for your attention.
ParlaMint-UA_2013-07-03-m1.u19	The Fatherland faction, Sobolev, National MP.
ParlaMint-UA_2013-07-03-m1.u20	Dear colleagues, I think what we're looking at right now is symptomatic. The fact that Ukraine is the leader of the European Court of Human Rights, whose decisions are not implemented if this is the case in the case of Timoshenko, Lucenka, Supreme Court of Volkova, that the decisions of the Ukrainian courts are not being carried out today, is why our citizens are forced to apply to the European Court of Human Rights for black people, Afghans, disabled people who are not paid for 45 billion dollars of the obligations the State has made in its decisions. This is a waste of proof of how corrupt and corrupt the judicial system is in Ukraine. What happened today, when there were two decisions of the Supreme Administrative Court, one of which said that the elected MPs were legally elected deputies, and the second decision six months later that they should be de-authorized, was a waste of evidence of what was going on in the judicial system, which was totally dependent on Yanukovich and the President's Administration. That's why three factions of opposition have decided, we've been supported by a number of deputies, who are, who haven't joined the factions. Until they are reinstated as national MPs who have been deprived of their powers illegally, these three factions will not take part in the vote until a legitimate decision is reached. And that depends primarily on you, Mr. Chairman, because you have declared an illegal decision, you have violated the Constitution, and you have the right to adopt a decision that will bring parliament back to normal work. There is no bill that deals with Euro-integration, no real fight against corruption in this session room, to vote in favour of decisions made by other loopholes that allow them to steal billions of dollars once more.
ParlaMint-UA_2013-07-03-m1.u21	The faction of the Party of the Regions, National Deputy Kolezničenko. Turn on the microphone.
ParlaMint-UA_2013-07-03-m1.u22	Respected colleagues should pay tribute to the fact that the deputies had found an opportunity and had objectively assessed the state of execution of judgements in Ukraine. And I would stress that power recognizes the flaws that exist today and that's very positive. However, it is strange to hear the drug statements of individual deputies who accuse the judiciary of failing to comply with judicial decisions. This indicates complete incompetence, simply a reluctance to understand what the judiciary is and what the executive power is. Therefore, the recommendations of parliamentary hearings must, of course, achieve the main one, namely, the enforcement of judgements. Because their performance has an effect and influence on the authority of the judiciary, because in such a case, the ultimate objective of justice is not to protect the interests of citizens and to effectively renew their rights. There are huge claims against the State executive. Therefore, either the proposal to transfer these functions, which is essentially derived from the requirements of the Constitution, the composition of the judiciary, would be correct, then the court would have a direct and direct relation to the monitoring of the execution of its judicial decisions. That would be a guaranteed constitutional right, a guaranteed enforcement of judicial decisions, which should be open and socially accessible. I believe that the draft parliamentary hearings proposed to us are entirely in line with the problem that has been considered. And I think the entire room will unanimously support such a ruling. Because it reflects the interests of the protection of human rights. Thank you.
ParlaMint-UA_2013-07-03-m1.u23	The faction of the Ukrainian Company, National Deputy Simonenko.
ParlaMint-UA_2013-07-03-m1.u24	Simonenko, the Communist faction. Dear voters, the Company faction will vote in favour of this project. But this decision will not make your situation any easier, nor will it change it for the better. Why? First, the political system is ideologically defending the interests of only a powerful business, i.e. capital. Secondly, the system of power provides practical implementation of this situation. The ship's branch of power, as you know, is part of this system. Third. The vast majority of court decisions depend either on the direction from above or on the size of the bribe given in court by specific oligarchic clans and groups. We also consider it necessary to inform you again today, Mr. President, that some of the oranges in power without trial and investigation have abolished over 100 laws that have deprived them of the children of war and veterans of the Great War of Homeland of the rights that gave them laws. The other one. The courts prohibit the exercise of these rights. You have to choose judges and you have to change the system.
ParlaMint-UA_2013-07-03-m1.u25	Let me finish.
ParlaMint-UA_2013-07-03-m1.u26	Only the election of judges by the people and the change of the political system guarantee that we will be executed in the judgment of the common people, not in the interests of a powerful oligarchic capital.
ParlaMint-UA_2013-07-03-m1.u27	Thank you. Did everyone say that? Ladies and gentlemen, please prepare for the vote. I'm voting on the motion for a draft Decree (No.2356a) on the recommendation of Parliamentary hearings on "On the status of enforcement of decisions in Ukraine" for adoption as a basis and as a whole. Please vote. [[16:32:31]] For 214 Against-1, held-1, didn't vote-179. The decision is not taken. There's an offer to send. The factions. There's an offer to send it to the committee for processing. People's deputies, please vote. [[B in m in s a l in]] [[16:33:17]] For 213 Against-0, held-0, didn't vote-182. The decision is not taken. The factions. A draft Decree No.2084a on Parliamentary Hearing Recommendations on the Health and Recreation of Children and Youth is under consideration. How do we view it? [[B in m in s a l in]] Please, who supports the reduced procedure, vote. [[16:34:11]] For-191 Against-2, held-1, didn't vote 201. Decision taken. Reported to the head of the Committee’s Subcommittee on Family, Youth Policy, Sports, and Tourism, Mikola Vasilovich Zuk. Please.
ParlaMint-UA_2013-07-03-m1.u28	Dear Volodymyr Vasilovich, Honourable People's Deputies. Mikola Jouk, faction of the Party of Regions, 129 constituency, city of Mikolayiv, Mikolayivsk district Dear colleagues, as you already know, we have adopted a decree of the Supreme Council of Ukraine since March 19, 2003, where we held the first parliamentary hearings on the rehabilitation of children in Ukraine, which took place on April 3, 2003. More than 500 people participated in the hearing, including representatives of all branches of government, ministries, Ukrainian national deputies and local self-government bodies, representatives of trade unions and health institutions. All participants have come to the only conclusion that the realization of the child’s right to health and rest is one of the major areas of recovery and the child’s overall development and social protection. This is particularly important when a steady trend in children’s health in Ukraine has been maintained in recent years. There is a negative dynamic about reducing the number of stationary children’s institutions and using them improperly. It is not fully implemented by the President of Ukraine since 22 July 2010 on the recovery and rest of children in need of special social attention and support for the establishment of all district centres for the entire year's health care facility, following the example of the Emerald City in the Donetsk region. Dear colleagues, today we have 3 July, we are very late with this decision of the Supreme Council, because there are now 2 changes. It is very important for us to accept these recommendations of parliamentary hearings. So I'd like to go to all the factions completely, because the committee's recommendations were prepared by all the factions. So I'd like to turn around and talk about it.
ParlaMint-UA_2013-07-03-m1.u29	Please finish.
ParlaMint-UA_2013-07-03-m1.u30	Ask to support the committee’s decision to take the basis as a whole. And I would like to see that by our vote we will just confirm how we feel about our children’s health and well - being. Thank you.
ParlaMint-UA_2013-07-03-m1.u31	Please register to discuss the matter. From the faction. Please, National Deputy Koleschenko faction of the Party of the Regions.
ParlaMint-UA_2013-07-03-m1.u32	Please give the floor to my colleague Sukhoma.
ParlaMint-UA_2013-07-03-m1.u33	Please, Jaroslav Suhi.
ParlaMint-UA_2013-07-03-m1.u34	Thank you, Reverend Vladimir Vasilovich. My colleagues, I want to remind you that from year to year we listen to similar questions. But first a small trailer. I didn't understand the behavior of this irresponsible part of the room. You vote for parliamentary hearings, and then you don't support recommendations. Then make your own, if you know them or if you have a subject. You speak out of the rostrum, discussing the recommendations, and then you don't vote for them. This shows that you have a very low level of political culture. First. The other one. Every year we listen to this question about the state of the child’s recovery. You think about the figure, you've cured 70 percent of the need last year, you've had 15 percent of the children's disease in the last year. Since 2007, when a bill was introduced by Ukrainian National Deputies of Kilincar, Stoyan, Suhi, Bondarczuk, Hara on the recovery and rest of children, the State’s program for the recovery of children has not been fully implemented for one year. And for today, we need to think about why is there such a negative pattern in reducing the number of health centers? The answer is given in the recommendations. Therefore, we are simply obliged to support these recommendations, which state that the main reason is that there are no State support mechanisms and economic incentives for child care. You might wonder why industrial enterprises, once powerful, powerful, well-known establishments, sell and cut. But because they are not supported by the State, they are still taxed in a frenzy. How many years, from time to time, we're talking about what should be a state support system. Then the pioneer camps that have not yet been extended throughout the homes will return to our children’s health. Keep it up.
ParlaMint-UA_2013-07-03-m1.u35	The Fatherland faction, National Deputy Catherinechuk.
ParlaMint-UA_2013-07-03-m1.u36	Please pass the word to Nicholas Tomenko, he'll be speaking without glasses today.
ParlaMint-UA_2013-07-03-m1.u37	Please, Mikola Tomenko, National Deputy.
ParlaMint-UA_2013-07-03-m1.u38	Dear colleagues, I was a participant in these parliamentary hearings, which was organized by our committee of profile. And at those parliamentary hearings, he said that these were some parliamentary hearings that unfortunately did not show a strategic vision of government, of power, as we from a country of totally ill young people and practically sick children to move to a country of healthy young people and healthy children. Because this statistic that we've seen, whether 80 percent of them are getting better in schools, or 90 percent are getting better in schools, it doesn't solve anything. Rather than curing children during the summer season, normal ecology, normal nutrition, and normal investment in the quality of life of a person and a child can save the situation. Yesterday I read that our government is delighted that the Ukrainian people are supporting a new genius idea, and I call it a new genius affair, like billions of dollars and billions of dollars to bury in sports objects from nonexistent winter sports for the winter Olympics. I have a question: do our leaders have the brains to invest billions of dollars in building winter sports objects that don't develop in Ukraine? Switzerland did a poor-unfortunate research and said that we don't have money for the Winter Olympics, because we have to save people in crisis conditions. Our officials have come up with a winter Olympic, and they're fooling the Galican that it's going to be all the roads and all the people are going to be provided with work. Is there something you can think of with Lviv Arena with a stadium that you think is going to destroy or not to destroy? Because billions have invested and done nothing. So our position is not to recommend, but a serious strategy for channeling systemic funds into the quality of a child’s life can save the Ukrainian nation.
ParlaMint-UA_2013-07-03-m1.u39	The faction of the Ukrainian Company, the national deputy of the Jury.
ParlaMint-UA_2013-07-03-m1.u40	Jury, faction of the Company of Ukraine. Respectable colleagues and respectable voters! The Communist faction would clearly vote in favour of those recommendations. However, I would like to point out that these recommendations are crucial to the recovery and health of our children, and that nothing will be done by our growing generation. And to date, the healing system itself and what is happening in this area probably sounds like an outline from the front. For example, over the past 20 years, the number of children's health facilities in children's camps has decreased more than two and a half times. Today, we are among the first in the world and in Europe on child alcoholism, tuberculosis, HIV-infected and so on and so forth. Today, only 1 out of every 5 children has a relatively good diet. These are all the achievements that we have in 20 years and that were made just when the oligarchs were in power. Therefore, the Communists today propose and insist that, first of all, all those children's camps and institutions that have been built under Soviet authority be considered and returned to public property, but are being set up by oligarchs today, in order to fully finance the recovery of children, not as is done today in school camps where 200 bracelets are allocated to one child for all 14 days. Let those screaming watch and try to get better for that kind of money. And, Vladimir Vasiljevic, your willful decision is finally to state the order and release those idles who are blocking, who are not voting for the expense of the Supreme Council, to pay their wages back, to return their money to the child's health. It's time to stop this vacchanal. Thank you.
ParlaMint-UA_2013-07-03-m1.u41	Freedom Union, Sabia People's Deputy.
ParlaMint-UA_2013-07-03-m1.u42	Please give the floor to Deputy Igor Yankev.
ParlaMint-UA_2013-07-03-m1.u43	Pass it on, please.
ParlaMint-UA_2013-07-03-m1.u44	Igor Yanków, the All-Ukrainian Freedom Union. We have not considered the health and rest of children for one year, and this is raised every year before the healing period begins. However, as we see in existing statistics, it gets worse and worse every year. Not to mention that virtually most of our children are being healed, not in rest and recovery camps, but in school rest camps. It's causing some anxiety about the material and technical state of our health facilities, which, as we see from this year's rest, is tragic: children die during, say, recovery and rest. We realize that the situation that is, and the situation that is related to the recovery and rest of children, is not resolved by the recommendations that were made on the committee that were offered at the hearings. We need to take a fundamental approach: change the attitude of the state in general to children's issues, their recovery, their employment, physical culture, and, in fact, the second year we don't have a physical culture and sports program, we can't involve our children in active participation in physical culture and sports. Therefore, the All-Ukrainian Freedom Association believes that we need to take this issue more seriously and more strategically: to change our approach to the solution to the issue of health and rest. Thank you for your attention.
ParlaMint-UA_2013-07-03-m1.u45	One minute, National Deputy Capplin. On the basis of the vote.
ParlaMint-UA_2013-07-03-m1.u46	Sergey Kaplin, Vitaly Klitschka Faction, Poltawa, 144 constituency. You know, in Ukraine, 17,000 973 children's facilities, of which 784 are health facilities and 17,000 189 are rest facilities. And there are no healthy children. No, because there's not enough money. Last year, a little more than one and a half billion dollars were allocated to heal 4 million small Ukrainians. Now let's see. Four million small Ukrainians of our children and one and a half billion dollars. And at the same time, twice as much as one person per person per President Viktor Yanukovic of Ukraine! Twice as much for the D.A.'s office. Dozens of times as many as the police who rape our children. And to what did we lead the country? We don't take care of children. But we're giving birth to a regime.
ParlaMint-UA_2013-07-03-m1.u47	The discussion is over. Deputies! I ask you to prepare for the vote. I am voting on the draft Resolution (number 2084a) on the Recommendations of Parliamentary Hearings on the Health and Recreation of Children and Youth for Adoption as a Basis and Overall. Please vote. [[16:48:33]] For the 220. Against - 0, held - 0, not voted - 165. The decision is not taken. The factions. Deputies! The two factions, the Vitalia Klitschka faction and the Fatherland faction, requested a recess for consultations and statements. Are you going to make a statement? Break? I'm calling it a 15-minute break. [[B in m in s a l in]] I announce a break of 15 minutes, read the Rules. Read the Rules, work, work.
ParlaMint-UA_2013-07-03-m1.u48	National deputies, the evening meeting of the Supreme Council of Ukraine, I declare closed.
ParlaMint-UA_2013-07-03-m1.u49	Tomorrow at 10 a.m., we'll continue our work. And to work, "Freedom" has to vote, and there's no law to vote for. That's not how they work.
