ParlaMint-UA_2013-06-20-m0.u1	Good morning, distinguished national deputies, invited guests of the Supreme Council of Ukraine! People's deputies, please prepare for registration. Turn on the "Race" system. [[10:05:11]] There were 380 national deputies registered in the hall. The morning session of the Supreme Council of Ukraine is open. Today is the birthday of the Ukrainian national deputy Vladimir Leontoyovich Nakoncny. Let's say hello to Vladimir Leontiyovich. [[Applause]] Ladies and gentlemen, I ask you to sit down. You have a list of issues proposed for discussion and decision-making today. I'd like a minute of attention from the national deputies on schedule for today's session. Please. First. We have the Election Act in order today, the draft Law on the re-election of Ukraine's national deputies to the Supreme Council of Ukraine on the seventh vocation. There's an offer to consider the matter at 12 o'clock. I'd like to invite you to the faction manager's office. We need to agree on the timing of the election. Let's wait, then after 12 we'll put it in the agenda and we'll look at it. Don't yell, I can't hear anything. You don't have the microphone on. First question. The second question. You're interfering with work. Well, wait, let me finish. Wait. I can hear you now. The second question. First of all, I'm going to ask these questions. Law 2087 is when considering the budget, the changes to the budget in 2013 (funding of interns). First of all, we'll discuss it with you. Next. I'm going to make a decision without discussion so that we can adopt a draft decree marking the 25th anniversary of the withdrawal of the Soviet forces from Afghanistan in Ukraine. There is a suggestion that we also consider them. Next. We have the Law 2087 and 2087a-1, which amends the Final Regulations to amend certain acts of Ukraine in connection with the adoption of the Tax Code on the Responsibility of Hosts using Accountants. Releasing the entry effect from July 1, 2014. And first of all, let's take a look. And there's Law 2229, where there's municipal payments for local self-government authorities, so we can look at it as well. So after the first question -- draft presidential law, I'm going to put in, and we're going to look at these issues. Do you have a deal? Then if you want, I'll give it to everyone in a minute. Please, from faction to minute. Hanna Herman.
ParlaMint-UA_2013-06-20-m0.u2	Dear Mr. Head, we ask you very much to put into order the daily bill which was dedicated to the President and which the committee approved yesterday's amendments to the President, is a Euro-Integration Personal Data Act. This is a very important bill that we need in the process of preparing for the signing of an association. All agreed, all factions, please.
ParlaMint-UA_2013-06-20-m0.u3	Let's put it in the session room in the afternoon and see, this is a Euro-Integration Law. Please, strike faction, National Deputy Rosenko.
ParlaMint-UA_2013-06-20-m0.u4	The Vitalia Klitschka faction, Paul Rosenko. I understand that the Supreme Council of Ukraine will have a joint decision, a joint bill on the implementation of five districts, and there will be no majority extension of the bill, which will be supported by only two factions. That's how I understood your words, Vladimir Vasilovich.
ParlaMint-UA_2013-06-20-m0.u5	I don't do it twice. I told you everything. So let's say we agree, let's think about it.
ParlaMint-UA_2013-06-20-m0.u6	The second question. Don't interrupt, please. I want to say one thing, there are a number of bills that have been put into the agenda, but so far we have no comparative tables on them. This is 2662, the accounting center. There's no correlation tables that we're going to consider. And the second question, 2833. This bill was about Mindhog. The bill was rejected on Tuesday. Why he's back today.
ParlaMint-UA_2013-06-20-m0.u7	Please, the people's representative of Labunska.
ParlaMint-UA_2013-06-20-m0.u8	Volodymyr Vasilovich, I want to address you and remind you of all the halls we promised our voters that we would adopt Law 2363-1. I've come from the county, I've been here for a month. Unfortunately, the opposition, in the 1 January 2015 sentence, we didn't accept it as a whole, we were going to amend it. We've forgotten about local self-government, it's the only source of local budgets today. They can't help but make a lease, it's all there. Please. In that plenary week, when the Council was blocked, it stood. I don't see him at all, it's been six months. What do we do with people? Let's take a look at it and take the whole bill. Thank you.
ParlaMint-UA_2013-06-20-m0.u9	We've blocked each other a lot, so in one day and two days we won't be looking at all the laws. But we're going to write this law down and we're going to look at it. Please, Freedom Union, Switzerland.
ParlaMint-UA_2013-06-20-m0.u10	Igor Schwaika, U.S. Union of Freedom. Mr. Head, first question. According to our Rules, the Head of the Supreme Council or the person who replaces him should declare those who are not registered in writing. This is a rule of law that needs to be enforced every day. The other one.
ParlaMint-UA_2013-06-20-m0.u11	Read the law, read it!
ParlaMint-UA_2013-06-20-m0.u12	I'll keep going. Bills by number (2405, 2833, 2144. 1177, 0024) are rejected. According to article 107 of the Rules, rejected bills cannot be named or, in fact, identical, included in this session or in the next extracurricular session. It's about Mindh, it's about those bills that were passed in Banks, it's about promissory notes. These bills cannot be rewritten, one letter in the name and essentially the same bill. Please consider.
ParlaMint-UA_2013-06-20-m0.u13	I beg of you, the Fatherland faction, Ivanchuk.
ParlaMint-UA_2013-06-20-m0.u14	Good afternoon, Vladimir Vasilovich. First of all, I would like to thank you for such a wise and balanced position on these bills that you have included in the agenda of the day first. First of all, this is the common position of all five factions in Parliament. And basically, that's what people expect from us, because it's very sensitive questions that we need to consider. Now I'd like to inform the MP of the strike party so that you don't repeat what the Head of Parliament has said. The re-election laws in 5 constituencies, the 12th worthy faction leaders have to decide on one issue that divides us, the date of these elections. If the agreement in the Head of Parliament is not reached, we will not be considering these bills. Thank you.
ParlaMint-UA_2013-06-20-m0.u15	All, the last speaker is Adam Ivanovich Martinyuk. And we're going to go through, we're going to look at the laws. We come to every law and we're going to be determined.
ParlaMint-UA_2013-06-20-m0.u16	Thank you. Martinyuk, faction of the Communist Party of Ukraine. Dear Volodymyr Vasilovich, the faction does not in principle object to the consideration of those bills that you have called, but there is one but. Since we said we didn't see them in our eyes, let's look at them before they're even distributed, after 12 hours, so that we have these projects at hand, because they're new, they're not included in the agenda today. When they arrive at the session hall, we are ready to consider them. Thank you.
ParlaMint-UA_2013-06-20-m0.u17	Thank you. Let us now consider making changes to the Constitution of Ukraine. The draft Law (Registration No. 2049) amending article 98 of the Constitution of Ukraine (for approvals of the Court of Auditors) is being introduced. And according to the requirements of part seven of article 149 of the Rules, the matter is dealt with exclusively in full discussion. The report is given to the deputy head of the Committee on Legal Policy of the Danube, Sergio Volodymyrovich. Please.
ParlaMint-UA_2013-06-20-m0.u18	The Honourable Head of the National Deputies of Ukraine, the Committee of the Supreme Council of Ukraine on Legal Policy, discussed at its meeting on 5 June 2013, a bill submitted by the President of Ukraine amending article 98 of the Constitution of Ukraine and the conclusion of the Constitutional Court of Ukraine on 21 May 2013. The basic law foresees the exercise of control by the Court of Auditors only through the use of funds from the state budget of Ukraine, leaving behind this control the income part of the budget, and its implementation is an integral part of the budgetary process. Monitoring the implementation of the State budget as a revenue and expenditure component is a requirement of fundamental international instruments in the area of State finance control, such as the Lima Declaration of Guidelines for Auditing State Finances, the Mexican Declaration of Independence of Higher Financial Supervisors. One of the principles of the budget system, as defined in the Ukrainian budget code, is the principle of publicity and transparency, which includes informing the public about the composition, consideration, approval, implementation and monitoring of the implementation of the budget. According to the Committee, relying on the Court of Auditors as an independent authority to control the implementation of the State budget, both in part and in part, it can ensure the right of society to receive full, transparent and objective information on the state of the national economy and state finances. By decree of the Supreme Council of April 16, 2013, the bill has been incorporated into the agenda of the day - to - day session of the Supreme Council of Ukraine of the seventh vocation and has been sent to the Constitutional Court of Ukraine to reach a conclusion on its compliance with the requirements of articles 157 and 158 of the Basic Law. Having examined the bill, the Constitutional Court concluded that the bill met the requirements of part one of article 157 of the Constitution, since the proposed amendments did not provide for the abolition or restriction of human and civil rights and freedoms and were not aimed at eliminating independence or violating Ukraine's territorial integrity. At the time the Constitutional Court reached its conclusion, there was no military or extraordinary situation in Ukraine. Thus, in this part of the bill is such that it does not conflict with part two of article 157 of the Basic Law. According to part of the first article 158 of the Constitution, the Constitutional Court established that a bill had not been submitted before one year of adoption by the Supreme Council of a decision on a bill amending article 98 of the Constitution, which had not been adopted by the Supreme Council as a law. We also note that the Supreme Council of the Seventh Council, during its term of office, did not change the position of article 98 of the Constitution of Ukraine. Thus, in this section, the bill meets the requirements of part two of Article 158 of the Basic Law. Thus, according to the Constitutional Court’s conclusion of May 21, 2013, the bill meets the requirements of articles 157 and 158 of the Ukrainian Constitution. According to part five of article 149 of the Supreme Council’s Rules of Procedure, the Supreme Council may consider the matter and decide on the preliminary approval of the bill in accordance with article 155 of the Constitution of Ukraine, provided that such a bill, at the conclusion of the Constitutional Court of Ukraine, meets the requirements of articles 157, 158 of the Constitution of Ukraine, and the Constitutional Court has not issued a warning. Dear colleagues, on Tuesday evening we discussed the 2012 Report on Implementation of the State Budget of Ukraine. The Minister of Finance, head of the Budget Committee, head of the Court of Auditors, was reported. Reporters and all the MPs who actively supported the discussion stressed that 38 laws had been adopted during the past year to amend the state budget, which greatly increased the revenue and expenditure plan of the state budget. But we need to realize that these changes did not take into account the current state of economic development and budget implementation, which shows that there is a need to improve the quality of planning and approve budgetary indicators. And the Court of Auditors seems to us to be able to help us find fault in filling the income portion of the state budget. In view of what has been said, the Committee on Legal Policy recommends to the Supreme Council a bill submitted by the President of Ukraine to amend article 98 of the Constitution of Ukraine to be approved earlier. Please be supportive.
ParlaMint-UA_2013-06-20-m0.u19	Thank you. The question is to the reporter? None. Have a seat. I ask you to give the floor to the representative of the President of Ukraine at the Supreme Council of Ukraine, Yuri Romanovich Miroshnicka. Please.
ParlaMint-UA_2013-06-20-m0.u20	Dear voters! Dear colleagues! You just heard the report. I think this bill is extremely important to our country. Because it's not only about the law that belongs to the so-called European package that we have to approve with you before the end of our session, but it's about the important function of controlling the Supreme Council over public finances in the country. Extending the powers and capabilities of the Court of Auditors to control not only expenditure but also revenue to the state budget is an important element of social control over public finances. This is fully part of the reform agenda announced by President Viktor Yanukovic of Ukraine and allows our country to join the European Democratic Civilisation Family. Thank you for your attention. Please support this bill.
ParlaMint-UA_2013-06-20-m0.u21	Is there a question? Please sign up for the question. Zuravsky, Party of Regions, please, three minutes to question.
ParlaMint-UA_2013-06-20-m0.u22	Please tell me, will the adoption of the proposed changes to the country’s main law not lead to a breach of Ukraine’s international obligations?
ParlaMint-UA_2013-06-20-m0.u23	Thank you for asking. Not only will this not only lead to a breach of obligations, but it will meet Ukraine’s obligations not only to the international community but primarily to our citizens, because it is about the funds that belong to the people of Ukraine, not to the officials who manage them, but to the people who have collected these funds through their taxes and want to be sure that they will be used as effectively as possible for the benefit of Ukrainian citizens. So this bill shows that Ukraine is moving towards the development and deepening of democracy. Thank you for your attention.
ParlaMint-UA_2013-06-20-m0.u24	National Deputy Odarchenko, Fatherland faction.
ParlaMint-UA_2013-06-20-m0.u25	Yuri Odarchenko, faction of the Fatherland Party. We're in. We can accept these changes to the Constitution as if for the purpose of strengthening parliamentary control. Doesn't it seem to you that the tighter this control would be, the more powerful it would be if the head of the budget room were in opposition? I would like to point out that there was a very clear position at Timoshenko for the majority in the Supreme Council when the instruments of control were offered to convey the opposition that the Party of Regions and Communists were then. It seems to me that this tool will not work unless the issue of handing over the House of Auditors is resolved. And that's all going to be said, it's going to be controlling you -- no control, no analysis will be seen by Ukrainian society.
ParlaMint-UA_2013-06-20-m0.u26	Thank you very much for asking. The only thing I would like to draw your attention to is that the Constitution of Ukraine, as part of its control of public finances, does not distinguish the only legislative body from the opposition and most. In this case, your proposal is right for me, in terms of the goodwill of the national MPs. But it must be decided by the election of the members of the Court of Auditors and, accordingly, by the election of the head of the Court of Auditors. Dear colleagues! Now it's about a much deeper thing. It's about the possibility that the Court of Auditors has the right to control the revenue and expenditure of public funds. And here we have to act in harmony, together, no matter which one of us represents the opposition, who is the coalition. Moreover, the changes to the Constitution provide for more than two.
ParlaMint-UA_2013-06-20-m0.u27	Thank you. Have a seat. I'd like you to sign up for the faction two minutes from now. Party of regions, National Deputy Braiko. Please.
ParlaMint-UA_2013-06-20-m0.u28	Vladimir Vasilevich, distinguished colleagues! [[B in m in s a l in]] We are invited to approve a preliminary bill submitted by the President of Ukraine amending article 98 of the Ukrainian Constitution. The draft provides for the expansion and competence of the Court of Auditors and for its powers to monitor access to the budget. In preparing this issue, all the special procedures provided for in the Rules are fully complied with. A positive conclusion has been received from the Chief Scientific and Expert Office. The draft law is reviewed by the Constitutional Court and recognized by the relevant requirements of article 157, 158 of the Constitution. A positive opinion was received from the Personnel Policy Committee. The point is that, to date, the Court of Auditors controls only the expenditure portion of the budget. We are invited to extend the competence and, on behalf of the Supreme Council, monitor the flow of funds into the budget. This will provide an opportunity for all society and for us to have a full picture of the state of government financial income. This is additional control by the Supreme Council, including for such unloved opposition, the Ministry of Income and Charges. This is in line with the requirements of international instruments in the area of State finance control. Therefore, I see no reason to reject this bill. And the faction of the regions will vote in favour of the law and requests that the bill be supported by the opposition. And the last. Unfortunately, in this brief period of our cadence, we from the highest body of the Legislative Council have become a platform for political ambitions to express self-piarity. That's why I'm scared.
ParlaMint-UA_2013-06-20-m0.u29	Thank you. Thank you. The Vitalia Klitschka faction, Dubnevich, National MP.
ParlaMint-UA_2013-06-20-m0.u30	Please pass the word to Agaphony Natalya.
ParlaMint-UA_2013-06-20-m0.u31	We'll give it to Agafone.
ParlaMint-UA_2013-06-20-m0.u32	Dear National Deputies, Your Honor Vladimir Vasilovich, for the second time in this rostrum, I am addressing you with the supervisory powers of the Court of Auditors, in order to keep us from expanding these powers. And once again, I want to explain the position of the strike faction, why we urge you to do it. What did the House of Accounts do, and what does it do now, what authority does it have now? Now, as the controlling authority, it controls the expenditure of the state budget. What is being done? It is suggested that it be given authority to control revenue to the state budget. What does this mean, then, is the body now in control of the coming? This is a tax service, now called the Ministry of Income and Congregations. What are we going to do now? In addition to the Ministry of Revenue and Assembly, we will have another monitoring body, the Accounting Chamber, which will also be able to come to enterprises, institutions, organizations, both large businesses and small businesses, and not only to state-owned enterprises, I am paying attention to this. This is a fundamental, fundamental distinction between the constitutional and legal status that is proposed for change. And now it's these audits that the Court of Auditors can do. Is that what you promised our voters? Because not one party in their programming warnings said that we were in favour of reducing control functions in terms of citizens, businesses, organizations, in terms of the private sector. What are we going to do now? Now we're going to create the House of Accounts with a whole new body, which is instead of one monster, as citizens -- the Ministry of Income and Assembly -- are going to be a monster with two heads. So you're doing a tax check first, and then you're going to meet an accountant's office, and you're going to check out the taxes that the company pays. Besides, I'd like to draw your attention.
ParlaMint-UA_2013-06-20-m0.u33	Let me finish.
ParlaMint-UA_2013-06-20-m0.u34	So I'm going to ask you one more time, let's hold on. This body will not be independent in accordance with the principles of the Lima Convention. Speaking of the Lyme Convention, a fully independent body of external financial control is established according to its requirements. Now there are no guarantees in the projected project. Guarantees of the independence of this body. Thank you for your attention.
ParlaMint-UA_2013-06-20-m0.u35	Faction, Fatherland, National MP, Mikola Tomenko.
ParlaMint-UA_2013-06-20-m0.u36	Dear colleagues, in the matter of the Court of Auditors, I think both the President and the Parliament are acting as our once-known Ukrainian poet Vasil Simonenko said they are building a state the other way around. Today, we need to think about how to make the House of Accounts today, and this is entirely up to the Supreme Council. Let me remind you, we're living with a semi-legitimate Chamber of Accounts. For more than a year, the first deputy is illegal, the deputy is illegal, the secretary is illegal, the chief controllers are illegal. Today, we are thinking about how to increase their authority, and the year is actually beyond the law. I have a second question. And those conclusions of the Accounting Chamber that you're reading are taken into account by someone besides you? Did you read the latest budget statement? There's almost $14 billion of GDP. On the basis of this, what was placed in the prosecutor’s office? For tens of billions, Euro funds have been stolen. The same people are now preparing again the Euro for basketball, saying that they have good experience. It will no longer be 60 percent, but it will be 70 percent. And we're expanding the mandate of the Accounting Chamber. Friends. So our position is to form the House of Accounts. We need to adopt a new edition of the bill on the Court of Auditors and a new edition of the Law on the Court of Auditors to state that it is an organ of the state, not an administration of the President of the Financial and Political Groups. In the new edition of the Act on the House of Accounts, the place of opposition and power should be clearly defined. And then we'll understand that on behalf of the Ukrainian people both the opposition and the authorities are in control. On the basis of this control, the Public Prosecutor’s Office reacts first, criminal cases break down, and then it will be the Court of Auditors. And so we say to the Europeans, "You see, we added one word to the House of Auditors." And in fact, it wasn't going to be. That's why we're in favour of creating a real House of Accounts, not a report to the Europeans about the House of Accounts. Thank you.
ParlaMint-UA_2013-06-20-m0.u37	Freedom Union, National MP Mohnik.
ParlaMint-UA_2013-06-20-m0.u38	Andrew Mohnik, faction of the All-Ukrainian Freedom Union. Our faction will support this bill. We believe that any increase in the powers of the Court of Auditors in accordance with the principles of the Lima Declaration of Guidelines for Auditing State Finances is in favour of the Ukrainian State. In fact, the only observation that is before this bill today is that these changes are unfortunately cosmetic. Unfortunately, the President only took one of those principles: tax coming up, tax control, and he didn't take into account what might be government procurement control. Purchasing services for government funds, doing business with public participation, doing business for subsidies. Because it's actually the activities of these organizations, the activities of state-owned enterprises, that's where the biggest abuses of finance are, and that's where it needs to be controlled. However, we believe that the Court of Auditors, as an authority to control government finances, should be given those powers. We agree with our colleagues that the head of the House of Auditors must be a representative of the opposition, in order to secure the threats that exist today by authority that can accumulate these government resources and pressure entrepreneurs to exert pressure on ordinary citizens. But on the other hand, I would like to stress that the Lima Declaration of Guidelines on Auditing State Finance is exactly what the Supreme Council should be governed by, amending the Constitution of Ukraine. The U.S. Freedom Union will support this bill. Thank you.
ParlaMint-UA_2013-06-20-m0.u39	The faction of the Ukrainian Company, Adam Ivanovich Martinyuk, please.
ParlaMint-UA_2013-06-20-m0.u40	Dear colleagues, honourable voters, I am particularly addressing those veterans of the parliamentary movement who are in the session room and would like us to remember. The question is far from new, and more than once in this session room there was a problem of expansion, a fair extension of the powers of the Court of Auditors. And not only did we rise up, we've solved this problem with you, we've already had almost 400 votes to make changes to the Constitution, and we've made these changes to the Constitution. However, in view of the return to the 1996 Constitution, this standard of the Constitution has disappeared and, as they say, needs to start again. I am surprised at the position of the so - called opposition, which I recall was in the first ranks of those who defended the rights and said it was objectively necessary. Well, really, let's think about it. The bill has the right to control how funds are used. But how to control how funds are used, if the Court of Auditors has no control over how they come and whether they come at all is absolute alogism. And it's absolutely fair that the President is making a proposal to give the Court of Auditors the right to control both the use and the availability of funds to the state budget. And one more moment, dear colleagues. I would like to remind you that the Court of Auditors is an organ of the Supreme Council of Ukraine. This is the body that, on behalf of the Supreme Council, exercises parliamentary control. So let's not worry about the House of Accounts as much as it is about the Supreme Council, because it's our control body, and we're going to support this bill in a friendly way.
ParlaMint-UA_2013-06-20-m0.u41	Thank you. People's deputies please sign up for the speech. Are Deputies Desirable? Please sign up. We've got 10 minutes, two minutes to do the show. Freedom Union, Cherniaków.
ParlaMint-UA_2013-06-20-m0.u42	Please give the word to Alexander the Peace.
ParlaMint-UA_2013-06-20-m0.u43	Alexander Mirny, the All-Ukrainian Freedom Union. Look at how at first glance a completely calm, normal question is driving the hall. Why is this happening? The answer is simple, as if we want to do something, but make sure that we do not get hurt. Because today there is such a situation in the country that any step in the right direction causes severe pain in those structures that are already embedded in this system. And to try as if for Europe, and for itself, including for internal consumption, to show that we are doing something, it will turn into such ridiculous steps that it is very difficult to discuss. And, of course, we will support this bill, but only in order to expand all the requirements that have already been made. And we want to remind you that this is not going to be the last vote, and we need everyone to understand, because now there are going to be opposition factions representing the factions, that those demands that sound, that's not just going to be declared to the public. These are the requirements without which the law will not be supported in the final positions. So I'm asking the pro-government parties, and I'm asking the President to hear them and consider them, because this is very important for the country. Glory to Ukraine!
ParlaMint-UA_2013-06-20-m0.u44	The Vitalia Klitschka faction, National Deputy Rosenko, please.
ParlaMint-UA_2013-06-20-m0.u45	Paul Rosenco, Vitaly Caller's Faction. I wasn't actually going to go out on this platform and talk about the faction's proposal on this issue, because Natalia Agafonova completely professionally and clearly proved this position. But yesterday's events that broke down the Ukrainian Internet actually forced me to take the floor right now and talk about how the Court of Auditors is doing a function of controlling the expenditure of the state budget. Last night, the Ukrainian Truth website was very much shown in an article about how the cost of feeding children with disabilities is being used. How the Ministry of Social Policy, through absolutely corrupt mechanisms, drives away these state funds that are directed at the least protected citizens through companies that are actually in their pockets. And that's why the strike faction can't leave yesterday's article in "Ukrainian Truth" without consideration. That is why we today demand, first, Vladimir Vasilovich, tomorrow is the day of the government. As part of the government's day, we demand that the Royal stand here and clearly state and publish its official position on yesterday's article. The other one. It's a request from all 42 members of the strike faction to the Attorney General that he also go to the head of the account room to verify the facts mentioned yesterday in an article on the theft of funds for Chernobyl children. Question three. We ask the President to remove today from the duties of all participants in this corruption scandal is our principle requirement. And fourthly, our House of Auditors will immediately verify the use of the Ministry of Social Policy's funds. This mess and this corruption must be stopped, it's a requirement of the impact faction.
ParlaMint-UA_2013-06-20-m0.u46	Thank you. The Fatherland faction, Kucheruk, National MP.
ParlaMint-UA_2013-06-20-m0.u47	Dear colleagues, I would like to say that the House of Accounts is, indeed, a very important tool that is in Parliament. But when I look at it, I don't think this instrument is necessary for Parliament. Because that's what society is saying right now, and even so they say that you know, it's gotten so hard to steal that it's not like we're already making money. Dear colleagues, the opponents of most, of course, you don't need this, and it doesn't need a President, nobody to control the finances of our budget. Because the more they steal, the less they get to the simple electorate. That's why I speak for the simple voters. Dear voters, you have to make the House of Accounts the exact instrument that will instigate these disadvantages that are being committed in the state today. Therefore, the Fatherland faction, Volodymyr Vasilovich, demands that an active body of the Supreme Council be created immediately, which should control expenses in this case. And we support that spending is not just a government budget, it's buying the shameful things that are going through today at the expense of our citizens, because taxpayers did not authorize government agencies to do such purchases that go specifically towards the dissolution of the state budget. Our ways do not withstand any criticism. Children do not receive food in Chernobyl areas because the budget line is missed for those who eat the first year and who are learning. That is why we will generally support this bill. But we need to approach it with a balanced approach.
ParlaMint-UA_2013-06-20-m0.u48	The Fatherland faction, National Deputy Sobolev.
ParlaMint-UA_2013-06-20-m0.u49	Dear colleagues! Why are we actually discussing this issue, and why has no one been asked? And because the Constitutional Court, which has now passed a very fast decision, has actually destroyed the Constitution, which has acted legally and was approved by Parliament in almost 400 votes. That's why we're going back to this. Now it's the essence of this question. Is there a need for income control? No doubt no one would deny it. Just tell me, if this is a parliamentary body, how are the parliamentary factions represented in this body? I'll tell you what, we have today's state of affairs, only the head of the Accounts Chamber is legitimate, no substitute for the legitimate in the Accounts Chamber, no chief controller of the legitimate in the Accounts Chamber. Because the House of Accounts is kind of the interlocutor between the Cabinet and the control body, where they agree on everything. That's why the facts that were cited by the colleagues at the Strike Party are obvious and vivid. That's why our faction approved the next decision, which is a prior approval that requires 226 votes. We will vote in favour of prior approval, but unless the Law on Amendments and Supplements is passed, where this body should be directly in the knowledge of opposition, as it has always been. Likewise, as far as the Human Rights Commissioner is concerned, until all personnel matters in this body are assigned, and I remind you once again, this body is illegal today, because there is no legitimate person there, except the head, we vote in general where 300 votes are not required. That's why we've already proposed to create a working group to make the changes, there's a whole series of authors who have made these changes and then just to make the final decision. Thank you.
ParlaMint-UA_2013-06-20-m0.u50	Thank you. The last speaker. Vitalia Klicka faction, Vanzuriak People's Deputy.
ParlaMint-UA_2013-06-20-m0.u51	Please hand over Caplin.
ParlaMint-UA_2013-06-20-m0.u52	Capplin, please.
ParlaMint-UA_2013-06-20-m0.u53	Sergey Kaplin, Vitaly Klitschka Faction. "Dear" (in paws) Ukrainian tax collectors from the Party of Regions and the Communist Party of Ukraine! Our political power would like to focus on the issue of control in the first place over how you steal the money that hard work earns from the Ukrainian people. We were shocked yesterday with the whole Ukrainian people by the magnitude of cynicism and the inadmissibility even to imagine an ordinary person stealing the funds that were allocated to the Chernobyl children. We know that you are no longer afraid of the Ukrainian people. You've spit in his face for a long time, but why are you ignoring God like that? Why do you similarly ignore your conscience? Why do you allow your vassals, your governors in places and businesses to actually take food from your children? Our political power will appeal to the Attorney General, to the President, to the public for a comprehensive, full, extensive investigation of this egregious fact. The other one. The strike political party would like to unlock the secret of this so-called presidential reform for the accounting chamber. Its essence is very simple to centralize and monopolize, in fact, control over how you steal these costs. It's a completely unnatural function for the accounting room. It's a completely abnormal phenomenon when you're actually creating another tax police in the Supreme Council. Dear friends! I'm asking you to realize that people will start paying taxes when they agree with these taxes to vote for your authority. And they will not vote for your authority because you spend on one.
ParlaMint-UA_2013-06-20-m0.u54	Thank you. Deputies! Ladies and gentlemen, let's not insult each other! Well, it's legislative. The higher legislative body of the State. I ask you, Vladimir Mikhailovich Litvina, two minutes, and we'll make a decision.
ParlaMint-UA_2013-06-20-m0.u55	Dear Vladimir Vasilovich! Dear colleagues! Such a strange impression was that we were discussing changes to the Constitution under a new procedure. Two minutes for the show, it's half short, half full. But essentially. It was from the non-fractional that I was moved by some of these glamorous political statements about what the House of Accounts means. First. It's not a fiscal organ. It must be a control body, financial control in a state independent of executive power. Clearly, they have logic, right, and objectively question the national MPs about the need to address this issue in a comprehensive manner, namely, to clearly define the procedure for the formation of the Court of Auditors. The other one. We need to address the number of financial controls in Ukraine. It's supposed to be the main body of financial control. It's the Court of Auditors. And it's quite obvious that in preparing the amendments to the Act on the Court of Auditors, it is necessary to provide for a procedure for its formation after the formation of the Supreme Council of Ukraine. Then it will be possible to determine both the representation of the opposition and the representation of the authority. Now the question is completely irrelevant. And as obvious as it is, the Court of Auditors is not competent. So, honourable colleagues, requests, let's vote, let's get this bill approved first. And the second. We'll take a decision in the Supreme Council's ruling, obviously, or a protocol signed by the Head of the Supreme Council, on the processing of amendments to the Law on the Court of Auditors and on the formation of the Court of Auditors for us to make a final decision, and we've made it, in fact, comprehensively so that the Court of Auditors can work. Thank you!
ParlaMint-UA_2013-06-20-m0.u56	Thank you. Does the reporter Sergey Volodymyrovich Dunaev have a closing word? None. Then I ask the national deputies to prepare themselves for the decision. According to part five of article 149 of the Supreme Council’s Rules and taking into account the Committee’s conclusion, I am putting to the vote the draft Decree (Registration No. 2049P1) on the preliminary approval of the bill amending article 98 of the Constitution of Ukraine for adoption as a basis and as a whole. Please vote. [[B in m in s a l in]] [[10:54:48]] For 263 The committee made such an offer. I made a proposal to the committee. What are the problems? For 263, against 4, held 39, did not vote 96. Decision taken. The factions. Please, National Deputy Martinyuk.
ParlaMint-UA_2013-06-20-m0.u57	Martinyuk, faction of the Communist Party of Ukraine. I'm talking to my colleagues from Homeland. Listen, please, I'll tell you what. It is unfortunate that you are governed by people who seem to know the Rules but who do not know them. We have not adopted a general change to the Constitution, which we are going to vote 300 votes in the next session, we have adopted in general the Order on the Prior Approval of Amendments to the Constitution. So please don't wave your hands, study the material and technical base.
ParlaMint-UA_2013-06-20-m0.u58	I'm going to read again the conclusion of the committee that was reported here. To adopt (this is the conclusion of the committee)u, to adopt, as a whole, draft regulation (2049p-1) on the preliminary approval of the draft amendment to article 98 of the Constitution of Ukraine. What's the big deal? What's the question, huh? [[B in m in s a l in]] I'm asking you, I'll give you a minute to head the Jacinyuk faction, and let's get back to work. Stop stalling. You're saying there's a lot of questions and you don't want to look at them. Please, National Deputy Yatsenuk.
ParlaMint-UA_2013-06-20-m0.u59	Vladimir Vasilovich, if you read it like you read it, there would be no discussion.
ParlaMint-UA_2013-06-20-m0.u60	But listen, the committee read it!
ParlaMint-UA_2013-06-20-m0.u61	And in view of what you read, it turns out that you've accepted almost making changes to the Constitution. Please read carefully what they give you. And then the faction will vote. Please return to the vote. We all vote, and the whole faction votes in favour of this bill, as we agreed.
ParlaMint-UA_2013-06-20-m0.u62	Don't worry, we've already voted. We have to listen. The whole thing was, everyone said it. Let's move on. Let's keep going. Ladies and gentlemen, let's move on to the inclusion section in the agenda of the day session. A proposal is made for the inclusion in the agenda of the draft Law (Registration No. 2341a) on amendments to the Ukrainian Act on the State Budget for Ukraine for 2013 (for ensuring the continuous functioning of the relevant state registers). There's a need now. [[B in m in s a l in]] Yes. We're looking at the short-term procedure. Please. [[B in m in s a l in]] Yeah? Read the Rules. Read the Rules. As noted, they need to be considered. So don't be nervous, let's work. So I'm asking you to sign up for factions. Yes, after that question. The Freedom Union, Leonov, please.
ParlaMint-UA_2013-06-20-m0.u63	Please pass the word to Igor Schweitz.
ParlaMint-UA_2013-06-20-m0.u64	Igor Schwaika, deputy faction of the All-Ukrainian Freedom Union. Mr. Head, my fellow MPs! I'd like to draw attention to the material part that the representatives of one of these mare factions have spoken of. First. The 25th article states that consideration of agenda issues is considered in the order in which they are included in the agenda of the day plenary meeting of the Supreme Council. Questions of order that have not been considered on the preceding day are considered the following day. Mr. Head, mixing the issue of order and dealing with it in a sequence in which either you and the President and Ephraim, or someone else, have made an agreement, does not allow the current legislation. This is an imperative rule that even ad-hoc does not have a legal option. First. The other one. We have today bills that I have already mentioned, 2405, 2833, 2144, 1177, 0024, which were not allowed to be included in the agenda at all today, because they were rejected by the Supreme Council. Third. As for the bill that is now under discussion. The 2341st essentially repeats the contents of the 2055 bill, which was rejected by the Supreme Council of Ukraine. Article 107 provides that the rejection of the bill has certain consequences. That is, a bill with that name or the same can't actually be registered. This is a violation on the part of the machine that registers such bills. And violations on the part of the leadership of the Supreme Council, which, at all costs, are trying to push these bills forward and put them in order of the day.
ParlaMint-UA_2013-06-20-m0.u65	Ladies and gentlemen, we are discussing a specific issue, so let us speak on a particular issue. Let's get to the second question, you'll be on the second question. Please, Party of Regions, National Deputy Party. Please.
ParlaMint-UA_2013-06-20-m0.u66	Deputy Evening, faction of the Party of the Regions. Dear Volodymyr Vasilovich, distinguished national deputies! The faction of the Party of the Regions supports this bill. But I support the deputy of Switzerland and Freedom, which should be included in the agenda of those bills that were not considered yesterday. And this is a bill that was included yesterday, and today it's not, and this is a vital bill 2363-1 -- amendments to the City Activity Regulation Act. Today, Volodymyr Vasilovich, people are waiting, all factions are "for". Yesterday this bill was included, and today it's gone. Please tell me, who's in charge of us, the Kabmin Supreme Council or the Kabmin Supreme Council? This bill awaits all factions! You can't do that, and you have to include that. And all the bills that are today 2341a and 2342a are supported by the faction of the Party of Regions. Thank you.
ParlaMint-UA_2013-06-20-m0.u67	Thank you. Let's finish this question, and I'll put it to a vote so we can work today, and we'll include all the questions, so let's work to see it through. I'll put it to a vote. The Vitaly Klitschka faction, and let's finish this question.
ParlaMint-UA_2013-06-20-m0.u68	Please pass the word to Paul Rosenck.
ParlaMint-UA_2013-06-20-m0.u69	Please, Paul Rosenko.
ParlaMint-UA_2013-06-20-m0.u70	Paul Rosenco, Vitaly Caller's Faction. We're traditionally very clear on our position of the impact faction on such small towns, some incomprehensible changes to the 2013 State Budget Act. The Ukrainian State Budget Act 2013 which was approved by the previous Council is a clear rule that, in the first quarter of Ukraine, the Cabinet of Ministers was obliged to introduce to the Supreme Council of Ukraine comprehensive amendments to the Ukrainian National Budget Act, which would primarily provide for the indexation of wages in Ukraine that are not yet implemented, the indexation of pensions, which is also not yet implemented, the indexation of all social benefits and assistance that are not yet implemented. But already the first quarter of 2013, I recall, was completed three months ago, and until now the Ukrainian government has grossly ignored the Ukrainian State Budget Act. We do not have these changes in our consideration of the Supreme Council of Ukraine today. And while they're gone, we won't be supporting any such small and local changes. And secondly, Vladimir Vasilovich, I ask you to respond to my previous speech about, firstly, the promise that tomorrow the Royal will report to the government on a corruption scandal. And secondly, on the request of the MP for my request from all the members of the UDA faction regarding yesterday's article in "Ukrainian Truth" on corruption in the Ministry of Social Policy. Thank you for your attention.
ParlaMint-UA_2013-06-20-m0.u71	The discussion is still under way. Please, just a minute. People's Deputy Tears, Fatherland faction.
ParlaMint-UA_2013-06-20-m0.u72	Ladies and gentlemen, given the importance of the problem that has arisen, the faction of "The Fatherland" of the bill will support the inclusion in the agenda, but with some warnings. Today we have a number of alternative bills on this issue that determine the different budget amount that needs to be allocated for this purpose. For example, Bill 2055 and Bill 2341, today, require a sum of 364 million dollars. Bills 2259 and 2342, which will now be followed, require an amount of 122 million dollars. Yesterday, a 9 - million - dollar budget programme was allocated to the budget committee. So I have a question for the active authorities. How much do you need — 9 million, 122 million, or 364 million? The Fatherland faction is paying attention if these issues are not settled and objective financial and economic conclusions are not presented, we will be taking part in the discussion when we consider this issue.
ParlaMint-UA_2013-06-20-m0.u73	Did you say everything? Honourable National Deputies, I am voting for the inclusion in the agenda of the draft Law (Registration No. 2341a) on amendments to the Ukrainian Law. Go vote. "For the State budget of Ukraine for 2013" (for the provision of continuous funding for the relevant state registers). People's deputies, please vote. [[11:08:18]] For 276 Against 33, held 35, did not vote 58. Decision taken. The factions. Dear National Deputies! I'm asking for your attention! As you can see, the agenda for today is very busy and has a number of important issues, and MPs are making proposals to consider them all today. I offer to work today before the day’s agenda is completed. Do you understand? I would like the national MPs to support this proposal and vote. Please vote. [[11:09:28]] For 225 I want to go to Freedom, I want to go to Strike, I want to go to Fatherland, and why are you making suggestions then? The decision is not taken. We're going in the daytime and we're working. The factions. It's the factions. By factions, do you not see what I should announce? A party of regions wants to work – 185 national deputies voted. Is that what you want me to announce? "Paternal" is 0, "Vitalia Calla" is 0, "Freedom" is 0, the Company is 32, non-fractional is 8. A draft Act (2342a) is under consideration to amend the Ukrainian Act on the State Budget for Ukraine for 2013 (for the financing of state registration of business entities). Are we going to discuss it or not? We will. You're intruding! Please. After a reduced procedure, the matter is being considered. Ukrainian National Deputy Pressman Alexander Semenovich reports. Reporter, please. Reporter.
ParlaMint-UA_2013-06-20-m0.u74	Pressman Aleksandr Semenović, 139th District, Odessa, Party of Regions. The provision of public registers to direct $364.5 million of expenditure from the State budget of Ukraine on the increase in revenue from services provided to budgetary institutions under legislation. All of it. Please be supportive.
ParlaMint-UA_2013-06-20-m0.u75	I would like to ask the head of the Committee on Budgets, Mr. Geller Evgeny Borisovich.
ParlaMint-UA_2013-06-20-m0.u76	Dear Vladimir Vasilovich! Dear National Deputies! Please support what Pressman Aleksandr Semenovich, head of the subcommittee, said. It's a very important law. Thank you.
ParlaMint-UA_2013-06-20-m0.u77	People's deputies please sign up for factions. The Fatherland faction, National Deputy Sobolev.
ParlaMint-UA_2013-06-20-m0.u78	Dear Chairman! Sobolev, the Fatherland faction. What's going on in the hall? 300 million are proposed from the budget and 30 seconds from the author of the bill and 20 seconds from the head of the budget committee. So where are we going to go like this?Oh, my God! Display calculations in at least one article. Previously on AMC's The Walking Okay, we voted. But how can that be? How documents are prepared, when three bills are passed simultaneously, where 11 million are numbered, then they are converted into 200 million, and the last one is 240 million. So what does the government want? I believe that such matters should be reported to the Minister of Finance. The 300 million question is that it doesn't seem to be enough for the budget. That's why our faction decided. Without all the materials given with a clear basis and a statement by the minister of finance, we will not support such matters. In order, we vote, but in fact, none of these issues can be included further and considered without financial justification. On the previous vote. Mr. Chairman, we asked you to ask two urgent questions concerning millions of entrepreneurs regarding cashiers, you said you would ask immediately after the review of the Constitution. And the second question is about closing boarding schools for gifted children. Let's get this thing over with. These two issues are really urgent, which require urgent intervention by parliament. Thank you for your attention.
ParlaMint-UA_2013-06-20-m0.u79	Ladies and gentlemen, we are now considering, I stress once again, not the question, but the inclusion in the agenda of our meetings. We have three laws for the agenda, and then I'm going to lay down the laws that we agreed on this morning. Let's hear each other out! It's the Vitalia Cliche faction, Rosenko. Please.
ParlaMint-UA_2013-06-20-m0.u80	Paul Rosenco, Vitaly Caller's Faction. I would like to stress once again that we will only consider and participate in the vote, only systemic changes to the Ukrainian State Budget 2013 Act, which the government has not so far submitted to the Supreme Council of Ukraine. With regard to these two documents, you have previously and today not even been in the hands of the Ukrainian National Deputies. They were introduced at night and were not even on the Web site of the Supreme Council of Ukraine this morning. What do we vote for? That's the first question. The other one. I'd like to comment on all of this, given that someone doesn't want to vote and work until the end of the day. So I want to tell our voters. Dear voters, today there is no question in the agenda of the Supreme Council of Ukraine as long as your questions increase. or improved your life. There is no bill today before the Supreme Council that would increase pensions that would increase the social protection of the population, which would increase wages or other social benefits. This is not in the order of the day of the Supreme Council of Ukraine. Today, only outright lobbyist and bandit corruption bills have been put into order. Bills on bills again, bills on Mindhog and the destruction of the Pension Fund and social funds in Ukraine. Again, what changes to the state budget of Ukraine, which only increase the funding of the central executive authorities, rather than increase the State’s social obligations, are unknown. So, of course, in this view of the order of the day faction, impact only sees an attempt by the authorities to extend their own interests, not the welfare of the citizens. So it's obvious that we're in this kind of order.
ParlaMint-UA_2013-06-20-m0.u81	Please, Freedom Union, Kyda, National MP.
ParlaMint-UA_2013-06-20-m0.u82	Thank you. Alexy Kaida, faction of the All-Ukrainian Freedom Union. Dear Volodymira Vasilovich, honourable deputies, our faction will not vote for the inclusion of this bill in the agenda and for the bill itself for two reasons. The first reason lies in the legal plane. This is a violation of part two of article 107 of the Ukrainian Law on Rules, which clearly states that a bill that has already been rejected, and this bill essentially repeats bill 2259a, which was successfully failed on 18.06. Moreover, the text of the bill is not available on the Web site of the Supreme Council of Ukraine. And accordingly this bill can only be considered at the next session of the Supreme Council of Ukraine. As far as the moral plane is concerned. The bill proposes to increase by 122 million the expenditure of the General Fund of the Ministry of Justice of Ukraine for the financing of the budget programme of administration and administration in the area of justice. First of all, before increasing the funding of Minsk, we need to check that all existing funding is appropriate. Secondly, Nazbank still has a huge liability — over 16 billion dollars to the State budget for 2013, which will be difficult to cover. And actually, Natzbank has to quarterly recalculate to the State Budget, actually, those costs. And thirdly, there's a political question: is it worth voting for any increase in the funding of the state apparatus? Because we have underfunded schools, underfunded kindergartens, underfunded hospitals and, in fact, government funding should take last place as soon as all the social resources of the 2013 state budget are funded. Thank you.
ParlaMint-UA_2013-06-20-m0.u83	Party of regions, National Deputy Suhi.
ParlaMint-UA_2013-06-20-m0.u84	Dear colleagues, the consideration of inclusion in the agenda alone in this calling has turned into some sort of disorder. There's no need to change the question. We're looking at whether or not to include. And what arguments to include or not to include. Dear Vladimir Vasilovich, we will be constantly exposed to misunderstandings in the session hall if we do not boldly apply article 94(3) of the Rules, which clearly states that in the absence of financial and economic justification, the bill returns to the author of the initiative without consideration in the session hall. We have wow, we already have over 2,000 bills that we should be looking at here and listening to, including or not incorporating into the agenda. It's wrong, it's insane, it's not smart. This needs to be done. And one more thing. It's about the bill of social pay. We're the only ones on our committee today who've come to conclusions, passed an opposition bill worth 700 billion dollars. What these bills have been introduced into the hall. And the rostrum has to be used as an agitator, as a demonstration to the electorate, which someone good, knowing very well, and knowing that this law will not be passed. And if he's even accepted, he'll be committed. And even if we overcome the veto, there will be no funds for it, as with this law on children of war. Therefore, I propose that the rules of the Rules be applied more clearly, and that they be returned. And this bill I propose to include in the agenda.
ParlaMint-UA_2013-06-20-m0.u85	Please, Alexander Kugel, the Fatherland faction.
ParlaMint-UA_2013-06-20-m0.u86	By supporting my colleague Sergey Soboljeva in breaking the rules, and drawing your attention, Vladimir Vasilovich, that if there was a very nice organization here, we wouldn't waste much time, I want to say essentially why I want to support the inclusion of this bill. It's the MPs of the previous call, and all the entrepreneurs demanded and cancelled the pay service for extracts from the register. And we today have many registers in Ukraine that will stop on July 1st, because the budget did not provide for them to be financed, but it did keep them from receiving their own funds. The other one. We have an opportunity, Mr. Geller, I have a request for you, if inclusion is supported, I hope, prepare for the first reading, consider the question. All of Ukraine’s registers belong to private companies, and most of the money from the state goes to maintenance. Prepare for a report on this issue so that we can arrange for it. Thank you.
ParlaMint-UA_2013-06-20-m0.u87	Thank you. I ask you to prepare for the vote of the national MPs. I am betting on voting for the inclusion in the agenda of the 2013 Draft Law on the State Budget of Ukraine (for the financing of the state registration of business entities). People's deputies, please vote. [[11:23:20]] For 288 Against 34, held – 37, not voted – 42. Decision taken. The factions. Yes, and the law is one more. A draft Act (2021a) is under consideration to amend some Ukrainian legislation on the authorization to register collective agreements and agreements. For inclusion in the agenda. I ask you to report to the head of the Committee on Social Policy and the work of Peter Stepanovich Cibenk.
ParlaMint-UA_2013-06-20-m0.u88	Thank you. The Honourable Head, Honourable National Deputies of Ukraine, on June 5, 2013, the Committee of the Supreme Council of Ukraine on Social Policy and Work had previously reviewed the draft Ukrainian Act amending certain legislative acts of Ukraine concerning the powers to register collective agreements (2021a) (from 16.05. In 2013, submitted by the Cabinet of Ministers of Ukraine. The bill proposes to eliminate disagreements between Ukraine's laws on collective agreements and agreements, on local self-government in Ukraine, the Ukrainian Code of Labour on the definition of powers and on the implementation of the reported registration of collective agreements and territorial agreements at the appropriate level. The project also defines the mandate of the Cabinet of Ministers of Ukraine to approve the procedures for the reporting of sectoral, intersectoral and territorial agreements. In addition, the Law on Collective Contracts and Agreements proposes several changes in terminology. The Committee supports the above-mentioned legislative initiative, believing that the adoption of the draft law would allow for the harmonization of the laws of Ukraine on collective agreements and agreements, on local self-government in Ukraine, and on the Code of Labour on the determination of the powers of executive authorities and local self-government authorities on the implementation of the reported registration of sectoral, intersectoral and territorial agreements, collective agreements. So the committee is asking you, honourable colleagues, to make a proposal for the inclusion in the agenda of the bill. Thank you.
ParlaMint-UA_2013-06-20-m0.u89	Thank you. Is there a need to discuss? None. I am voting on the draft Act for the inclusion in the agenda (2021a) of amendments to certain legislative acts of Ukraine concerning authorizations for the implementation of the notified registration, collective agreement and treaty. People's deputies, please vote. [[11:26:44]] For three hundred Against 0, held – 2, not voted – 42. Decision taken. The factions. Ladies and gentlemen, it is proposed to include in the agenda of the Order (2225a) marking the 25th anniversary of the withdrawal of the Soviet forces from Afghanistan in Ukraine. May I put it to the vote? I'm betting on the vote to include in the agenda a daily project (number 2225a) to mark in Ukraine the 25th anniversary of the withdrawal of the Soviet forces from Afghanistan. People's deputies, please vote. [[11:27:46]] For 369 Against 0, held – 2, not voted – 29. Decision taken. The factions. It is submitted for consideration for the inclusion in the agenda of daily laws 2087a, 2087a-1 amending the Final Provisions of the Ukrainian Law on Amendments to certain Ukrainian legislative acts in connection with the adoption of the Ukrainian Code of Taxation on the Responsibility of Operators using Accountants. May I put it to a vote? I'm betting on the vote on draft Law 2087a and 2087a-1 for inclusion in the agenda. Please vote. [[11:28:55]] For 375 Against - 0, held - 0, did not vote - 26. Decision taken. The factions. It is submitted for consideration for inclusion in the agenda of the draft Act (Registration No. 2229a) amending the Ukrainian Law on the State Budget for Ukraine for 2013 (to clarify the sources of debt relief for differences in tariffs for thermal energy, central water supply and water supply). Can I turn it on? I would like to place the bill in order of the day (number 2229a). Please vote. [[11:30:08]] For 280 Against 31, held – 6, not voted – 81. Decision taken. The factions. Ladies and gentlemen, we have agreed to include in the agenda the bill 2087 and 2087-1. It's not on? To be included in the agenda for amending article 90 of the Code of Budgets. It's on. It's included in us. We agreed on the election, we'll look at it, we'll figure out the factions, then we'll go back. Yes, with regard to the law that raised Dinner - 2,363. This is the second reading, in chapter two of the second reading, we will consider this question. Let us now consider the questions in the second reading. The draft Law (Registration No. 2336-1) on the amendment of the Final Provisions of the Ukrainian Law on the Regulation of Urban Activities (Restriction of the Ban on Land Disposal) is under consideration. I'm asking you to report to the committee's deputy head. [[B in m in s a l in]] We agreed to look into it. We agreed to just look at it. He reports to the deputy head of the Committee on Construction, Urban and Housing and Regional Policy, Dmitry Josephovich Andryewski. Please report. Please report.
ParlaMint-UA_2013-06-20-m0.u90	Dear Vladimir Vasilovich, distinguished colleagues, we adopt this law after appropriate amendments have been made to the MPs. All the amendments that we have taken into consideration by the committee are now reflected in the draft Law that you have been given. I would like to remind you once again that the adoption of this law will allow local self-government authorities to make decisions on land withdrawal, thus filling local budgets and supporting the construction sector of Ukraine. The papers are given to you, please support this bill.
ParlaMint-UA_2013-06-20-m0.u91	Sit down, sit down. I'll bet you a vote. [[B in m in s a l in]] Corrections are all taken into account. The committee will report. [[B in m in s a l in]] Andreyevsky, Andreyevsky, please turn on Andryevsky's microphone. As amended, please.
ParlaMint-UA_2013-06-20-m0.u92	Once again, I would like to point out that the committee has all the amendments that have been tabled by the deputies, they are all that have been supported by the committee, they are now reflected in the draft law that we are proposing for the vote.
ParlaMint-UA_2013-06-20-m0.u93	Is that clear? Please, Amendment 1, Andreyevsky, accounted for. Amendment 2 is included. [[B in m in s a l in]] Sit down, everybody. Don't shout. I'll turn on the microphone, and you'll talk. You're not at the rally. What are you doing? National Deputy Odarchenko. Everybody, sit down.
ParlaMint-UA_2013-06-20-m0.u94	Thank you, Vladimir Vasilovich. Yuri Odarchenko, Fatherland Party. Dear friends! I'm talking to our voters. What are we talking about? Today, with this bill, I want to allow the authorities to build again in your backyards without discussion, without a plan for further territory, without planning, that is, you have tomorrow at the playground or where a duck is standing, a house may arise. And today, everyone who votes in favour of this bill or supports amendments that allow it to continue to exist is a criminal in relation to the citizens of those cities and villages in which they live. Imagine! No general plans discussed, no plans discussed. detailed plans for the territories. This is done to ensure that the criminal scheme of land theft and the construction of areas where citizens live and are found continues to function.
ParlaMint-UA_2013-06-20-m0.u95	Deputies! I say again that you do not discuss the law. We're looking at the second reading, there's the amendments, so let's look at the amendments and figure it out. [[B in m in s a l in]] Him. The deputy didn't make a proposal. [[B in m in s a l in]] This is not about everything but about making proposals for a specific amendment. Please turn Odarchenko on again.
ParlaMint-UA_2013-06-20-m0.u96	Volodymyr Vasilovich, I ask you to make this amendment for confirmation. And all the revisions I'm asking you to bet on confirmation.
ParlaMint-UA_2013-06-20-m0.u97	What's that?
ParlaMint-UA_2013-06-20-m0.u98	1 Andreyevsky's law.
ParlaMint-UA_2013-06-20-m0.u99	1 amendment? All of it. I'm putting amendment number one of Andreyevsky's people's deputies in support. Please vote. [[11:38:58]] For 227 Against – 1, held – 30, did not vote – 140. Decision taken. The factions. Amendment number 2. Counted. Amendment number 3. Counted. I'm asking the committee manager. Kilinkarov's microphone, please.
ParlaMint-UA_2013-06-20-m0.u100	Vladimir Vasiljevic, we have considered the bill on the committee, and all political parties have participated in the discussion, including the amendments. The only problem, the amendments that were partially taken into account, all the other amendments were considered on the committee and voted in favour. So I think we need to look at the adjustments that are taken into account, which are partially accounted for.
ParlaMint-UA_2013-06-20-m0.u101	Yes. Amendment number 3. For confirmation? I'm betting on the vote of Amendment 3, National Deputy Salda. To support. Please vote. Please vote. [[11:40:32]] For 193 The amendment is not confirmed. Next. Amendment 4. Amendment 4. National Deputy Sas.
ParlaMint-UA_2013-06-20-m0.u102	Thank you. Dear Volodymira Vasilovich, I would like to draw your attention to the fact that, in accordance with part one of article 117, the comparative table is given to the National Deputies no later than 10 days before the law is reviewed in the second reading. We don't have the charts right now. What are we talking about? And the next. There was a question about confirming the amendments supported by the committee. There is part of the third article 120, which states that under the insistence of the national deputy, amendments to the committee should be set up and discussed, discussed, and put to the vote. Therefore, if the deputies insist, all amendments to the second reading, which are made and taken into account by the committee, should be submitted for confirmation. Thank you.
ParlaMint-UA_2013-06-20-m0.u103	Yes. Amendment 4 of Pavlovsky’s national deputy Counted. [[B in m in s a l in]] Please, Pavlovsky's national deputy. Please.
ParlaMint-UA_2013-06-20-m0.u104	Dear National Deputies, well, first of all, where's the table to this law, the table to the second reading? According to the Rules, it must be in the hands of deputies so that they can watch and vote consciously on every amendment. No chart, what are we voting on? We don't see what we're voting for. What kind of organization is this? Secondly, my amendment was about what.
ParlaMint-UA_2013-06-20-m0.u105	Ladies and gentlemen, I'm taking this off the table. They've finished this market. The committee, you'll be handing out all the deputies to have projects, and we'll be looking into it. I see we don't have any laws like that. Yes, the Law (2698) on amending certain Ukrainian legislation on the elimination of restrictions on the conduct of agricultural activities is under consideration. Please report to the Vice-President of the Committee on the Rule of Law and Justice, Dmitri Yuriovich Sphenov.
ParlaMint-UA_2013-06-20-m0.u106	Dear Vladimir Vasilevich, if you please, you've called my last name Spinev for the third time, and my last name is Spinov. My name is Sphinx.
ParlaMint-UA_2013-06-20-m0.u107	Okay.
ParlaMint-UA_2013-06-20-m0.u108	The honourable chairman, honourable colleagues, of the bill was adopted on the first reading on May 16 of this year. Before the second reading, 44 amendments were made to the bill. At a meeting of the Committee on the Rule of Law and Justice on June 5, this year, it was decided to include 14, including a partial rejection of 30. I would like to point out that the changes proposed by the President of Ukraine, as immediate and supported in the first reading, are aimed at simplifying the procedures for controlling the activities of economic operators and reducing the possibility of State intervention in their activities. Therefore, when considering the amendments, the committee decided to preserve as much as possible the idea proposed by the President of Ukraine. However, some of our colleagues have made really useful suggestions. In addition, they were based both theoretically and in practical terms. The amendments are radical with this bill, adopted in the first reading, no. Let me briefly remind you of the changes that will be made if you accept it in the second reading. A verification mechanism is introduced by the District Administrative Court of Justice of decisions made by controlled authorities to exercise State oversight in the field of economic activity. A list of such cases must be established by law. A lawsuit before a district administrative court will be filed by the controlling authority itself at the same time as it has taken a decision. Prior to the court’s decision, no action can be taken. In addition, a number of amendments are being made to the Civil Protection Code and the Ukrainian Act on the Fundamentals of State Oversight, Control in the Field of Economic Activity, aimed at reducing the involvement of authorities in economic activity, but at meeting the requirements of security in the construction of businesses. I propose to go over the amendments, to adopt the bill as a whole as proposed by the committee. Thank you for your attention.
ParlaMint-UA_2013-06-20-m0.u109	Thank you. Amendment number one, People's Deputy. Turn on the microphone.
ParlaMint-UA_2013-06-20-m0.u110	Dear colleagues, well, that's the very basic point of this bill that the amendment itself refers to. The bill provides for the possibility for the supervisory authorities to authorize checks through the courts. It is proposed that this provision be excluded, since in accordance with article 18 of the First Administrative Code of Justice, the task of administrative justice is to protect the rights and interests of natural persons. And here it's given to the courts a control function and it doesn't respond to the tasks of the administrative judiciary. And this rule will also conflict with article 6 of the Ukrainian Constitution, which says that power in Ukraine is divided into legislative, executive and judicial. In fact, there will be a merger of executive and judicial authority. And then, once the control authorities have been authorized to carry out the checks, no host subject will be able to sue after such inspection.
ParlaMint-UA_2013-06-20-m0.u111	I'll bet you a vote on the amendment of the People's Deputy. Please vote. [[11:47:12]] For 133 Correction not supported. Against – 4, held – 30, did not vote – 223. Amendment No. 2 of the People's Deputy. Please turn on the microphone.
ParlaMint-UA_2013-06-20-m0.u112	Dear colleagues, that is to say, the introduction of the characteristics of conduct in matters that confirm the reasonableness of the use by the authorities of the response measures during the exercise of State oversight in the field of economic activity will increase the burden on the courts, first of all, to which the Venice Commission has repeatedly called, and this position will be contrary to the conclusions of the Venice Commission. In fact, the courts will, once again, act as executive authorities. And in our view, these changes proposed by the law are called, first, not for the protection of the business, but for the possibility of taking self - repressive measures with regard to business entities and removing unfavourable competitors from the market. So I ask you to support the proposed amendment. Thank you.
ParlaMint-UA_2013-06-20-m0.u113	I'm betting on the vote of amendment 2 of the People's Deputy. Please vote. [[11:48:44]] For-129 Against - 3, held - 31, did not vote – 230. The decision is not taken. Correction of the People's Deputy Sold.
ParlaMint-UA_2013-06-20-m0.u114	I insist. Dear Volodymira Vasilovich, distinguished national MPs, this bill that is prepared to help and support the business that is to be done. In the event that these rules are adopted, the decision of the subject of the authority, the controlling authority on the restriction of the business, will be subject to the right, solely to the subject of the authority. With this amendment, I propose that businesses themselves be allowed to challenge the illegality of the actions of the authorities. If you do not support this amendment, all businesses will be limited in their right to defend themselves and in the prosecution of decisions by authorities that prohibit or close businesses. Please support this amendment and allow businesses in the future to defend their rights in court. Thank you.
ParlaMint-UA_2013-06-20-m0.u115	I'm betting on the vote on amendment 3 of the People's Chamber of Commerce. Please vote. [[11:50:19.]] For a hundred and Correction not supported. Against - 5, held - 30, did not vote - 212. Amendment No. 4 of the People's Deputies of Odarchenko.
ParlaMint-UA_2013-06-20-m0.u116	Thank you, Vladimir Vasilovich. Dear colleagues, my amendment is aimed at enhancing the protection of entrepreneurs from the illegal application of restrictions. I would like to make it clear that if the controlling authority has not been able to bring the time limit established by law to court, he cannot ask for the renewal of this term. Dear colleagues, the practice of our courts clearly shows that they are renewing the organs of the state even after a year, and it is very difficult for a person to succeed. We have to make it clear that if the controller is unable to apply, everything, man can work quietly further and no one in a year will come with the approval that something has come back. I ask you to vote for my amendment.
ParlaMint-UA_2013-06-20-m0.u117	I bet on the vote of amendment 4 of the People's Deputies of Odarchenko. Please vote. [[11:51:49]] For-137 Against - 3, held - 32, did not vote - 224. The decision is not taken. Amendment 7. National Deputy Hirschfeld. Are you insisting? Turn on the microphone.
ParlaMint-UA_2013-06-20-m0.u118	I don't insist.
ParlaMint-UA_2013-06-20-m0.u119	Next. Amendment 8. National Deputy Hirschfeld. Are you insisting?
ParlaMint-UA_2013-06-20-m0.u120	I don't insist.
ParlaMint-UA_2013-06-20-m0.u121	Amendment 9. National Deputy Hirschfeld. Are you insisting? Don't insist. Amendment 11. National Deputy Odarchenko. Don't insist. Amendment 12. You don't have to sleep. I'm asking you to get some sleep and then ask. Please. Amendment 11. People's Department of Odarchenko.
ParlaMint-UA_2013-06-20-m0.u122	Thank you. Dear colleagues, you should just read what we're voting for. In accordance with the current law, there are only two options for a court decision. Either the circumstances that led to the action had failed and then the court in the lawsuit refused, or the circumstances were confirmed and the court was satisfied. The possibility that the response was not even provided for without a reasonable basis. In my amendment, it is only suggested that the action be dismissed also when the circumstances laid down in it have not been confirmed. If we don't accept my amendment, we're basically saying that the controlling organs can't be wrong and they're always right. Please support my amendment.
ParlaMint-UA_2013-06-20-m0.u123	I bet on the vote amendment of 11 People's Deputies of Odarchenk. People's deputies, please vote. [[11:54:13]] For-125 Against 3, held – 29, not voted – 241. The decision is not taken. Amendment of the 12 People's Deputies of Hirschfeld. Are you insisting? No, it's not. Amendment 13 of the Odarchenka People's Deputy, do you insist? No, it's not.
ParlaMint-UA_2013-06-20-m0.u124	I insist.
ParlaMint-UA_2013-06-20-m0.u125	You can raise your hand, now I see. Odarchenka's microphone.
ParlaMint-UA_2013-06-20-m0.u126	Dear colleagues! The Constitution of Ukraine guarantees everyone the right to appeal or appeal against judicial decisions. Why do we make an exception for the controlling authorities and put them above the Constitution? Why do we deprive an entrepreneur of the right to charge an illegal court order with the Supreme Administrative Court? Without the Supreme Administrative Court’s review of the cases, it is not possible to form even a single court practice; it is not possible to remove violations of the rules of law by judges. What are we doing? I ask you to support my amendment and allow a cassational complaint in this category of cases. Please vote for my amendment.
ParlaMint-UA_2013-06-20-m0.u127	Are you talking about 13? I bet on the vote to amend the 13th People's Deputies of Odarchenk. People's deputies, please vote. [[11:55:54]] For-129 Against – 2, held – 25, not voted – 241. Correction not supported. 15th Amendment of People's Deputy Hirschfeld. Don't insist. Consider Amendment 15. 14th. It's counted. Hirschfeld doesn't insist. 16 Amendment of People’s Deputy Hirschfeld No questions asked. 17th People's Deputy Odarchenko. Please. Microphone.
ParlaMint-UA_2013-06-20-m0.u128	Dear colleagues, this is a very important amendment, if we look at the Criminal Code, we will see that taking a person in custody does not necessarily mean that his guilt is proved. And if we look at this bill, we see that applying restrictions to an enterprise automatically means that it's guilty. I propose that the court's decision to take a summary procedure without fully examining all the circumstances of the case cannot be used in the following as evidence of the legality of the actions of the examining authorities. Otherwise, very soon, we will be in power, not even Yanukovich and his carcases, but by supervisors and other representatives of the fiscal authorities. Please support my amendment.
ParlaMint-UA_2013-06-20-m0.u129	Amendment 17 of the People's Deputies of Odarchenka. I bet on the vote of the People's Deputies [[11:58:14]] For a-117. Against three, with 22, with no vote, 253. The decision is not taken. Dear National Deputies, we have two minutes before recess, the MPs are making an offer: to vote to work in the Supreme Council today for a full review of the order of the day session. [[B in m in s a l in]] People's deputies, please prepare for the vote. People's deputies, please prepare.
ParlaMint-UA_2013-06-20-m0.u130	Break, break. Nothing, nothing. I'm betting on the vote, working today to consider all the issues of the agenda. Please vote. Up to 24 hours today. Please vote. [[11:59:42]] For 211 [[B in m in s a l in]] Against 15, held – 27, not voted – 129. The decision is not taken. At 12:30, we'll continue the session.
ParlaMint-UA_2013-06-20-m0.u131	Ladies and gentlemen, I ask you to sit down, because we are about to have a lot of votes. I think we'll welcome the judges who came to us at the Supreme Council, come on. [[Applause]] Let them listen to decisions, laws. We will conclude the consideration of the law that has begun, and then we will consider the questions that we have by the judges. The amendment of the 18 people’s deputies, Sharov, is under consideration. Are you insisting? No, it's not. Come on, folks. 23rd Deputy of the People's Republic of Germany. Are you insisting? Please turn on the microphone. I'm asking you to listen.
ParlaMint-UA_2013-06-20-m0.u132	Oleg Knaczykki, the All-Ukrainian Freedom Union. Dear colleagues, we are back to the same subject. And according to this order, the controlling authority will first take appropriate measures and then file a lawsuit before. Administrative action before the court. In this context, it is not clear when the specified order will take effect. Since changes to part five of this article imply that it is applied in cases provided for by law, the law itself does not provide for this. Moreover, relying on the court to make decisions on the application of a response measure actually means that the court takes the decision in question. I mean, the court is relying again on the same function of the control body, and again, I stress that this is another category of cases that will be loaded by the courts, which the Venice Commission has repeatedly mentioned. In addition, we can say that a new mechanism will be put in place.
ParlaMint-UA_2013-06-20-m0.u133	Thank you. I'm voting on amendment 23 of the People's Deputy. Members, please vote. [[12:42:41]] For-100 Against - 1, held - 23, did not vote - 243. The decision is not taken. Rejected amendment. Let's move on. Amendment 26 of the People's Deputy of Knaczyk. Please. Please, take it off. 24. MP Rosenko is asking for support. It's an amendment to the people's party. To support. People's deputies, please vote. [[12:43:48]] For 184 Declined. Not supported. "For" – 184 – 2, held – 39, not voted – 148. The decision is not taken. Amendment 25 of the People’s Deputy of Butkowski. Ask the national deputy Rosenko to vote in favour of this amendment. Please do not run, but sit down and work. Please vote. [[12:44:48]] For 226 Supported. Amendment 32. National Deputy Hirschfeld. Don't insist. Let's move on. Amendment 36. People's Deputies Sold. Are you insisting? 36, do you insist?
ParlaMint-UA_2013-06-20-m0.u134	Am I still on the 29th?
ParlaMint-UA_2013-06-20-m0.u135	Which one?
ParlaMint-UA_2013-06-20-m0.u136	29th. It was my 29th amendment.
ParlaMint-UA_2013-06-20-m0.u137	The 29th passed. And 36th?
ParlaMint-UA_2013-06-20-m0.u138	I don't insist on 36. I insist on 29th.
ParlaMint-UA_2013-06-20-m0.u139	Don't insist. Yeah, what's 29th. 29th People's Deputy Sold. Please turn it on.
ParlaMint-UA_2013-06-20-m0.u140	Dear Volodymira Vasilovich, distinguished national deputies, in the proposed amendment, I propose to leave the applicable rule of law, which provides that contractors have the opportunity to obtain and produce documentation to obtain basic outputs in the government in a free order. In the absence of support for this amendment, all construction customers will have to pay all the authorities who have the necessary information to build the funds to make the payment again. Please support and leave the situation that is today and leave the opportunity for customers to receive information free of charge in the authorities. Thank you.
ParlaMint-UA_2013-06-20-m0.u141	I'm betting on the vote of Amendment 29 of the People's Chamber of Commerce. Please vote for the people's deputies. [[12:46:50]] For 131 Against – 1, held – 33, did not vote – 223. 30 revisions. National Deputy Hirschfeld. Are you insisting?
ParlaMint-UA_2013-06-20-m0.u142	It's the same standard. My amendment refers to the same standard that you just rejected. That's why I don't insist.
ParlaMint-UA_2013-06-20-m0.u143	Don't insist. 31st People's Deputy. Please. You've been turned on, speak up.
ParlaMint-UA_2013-06-20-m0.u144	I insist.
ParlaMint-UA_2013-06-20-m0.u145	Please. I'll bet on the vote on amendment 31 of the People's Deputies. Are you insisting on 29th? It's at 30, isn't it? Then I put 30, then I put 31. I'll bet you an amendment to the 30th People's Deputies of Hirschfeld. Please vote for the people's deputies. [[12:48:03]] For 275 Against – 1, held – 2, did not vote – 109. Decision taken. Why don't you put the session back on? [[B in m in s a l in]] Amendment 31 of the People's Deputy of the Deleter. Should I vote? I bet on the vote, Amendment 31 of the Deleter. Please vote. [[12:48:47]] For 122 Against 4, held – 31, did not vote – 227. The decision is not taken. 36 – considered. 37, People's Deputy Sold.
ParlaMint-UA_2013-06-20-m0.u146	I insist on this amendment because the current law provides for the Cabinet of Ministers to prepare the necessary bills, draft regulations to ensure the real work of the Civil Protection Act. In view of the failure of the Cabinet of Ministers to comply with its laws, we voted with you today to extend the period of entry into force of the Civil Protection Act of Ukraine. We believe that the Cabinet of Ministers is bound by laws and is obliged to prepare draft decisions that will ensure the proper functioning of the civil protection service. Therefore, I ask the deputies to support the amendment and leave it up to Kabmin to prepare the projects that people need today. Thank you.
ParlaMint-UA_2013-06-20-m0.u147	I'm betting on the vote on amendment 37 of the People's Chamber of Commerce. Please vote. [[12:50:05]] For-129 Against – 1, held – 31, did not vote – 228. The decision is not taken. 38th People's Deputy of the Magnificent. Please.
ParlaMint-UA_2013-06-20-m0.u148	Dear colleagues, well, given that all the amendments that applied to this bill had previously been rejected. In fact, these amendments provided safeguards against abuse by the controlling authorities regarding control bodies. And we actually see that this law is well-intentioned in order to improve entrepreneurial activity, it provides for repressive measures and sanctification through court-sanctioned checks, so that, after a test, they can be charged by the host body as a result of the test itself. That is exactly the situation and the adoption of this law will testify to the redistribution of the market, the redistribution of ownership in Ukraine. And for the benefit of someone, we can guess. Because the following amendments make no sense, the preceding amendments have been rejected. Thank you.
ParlaMint-UA_2013-06-20-m0.u149	Put it to the vote? I don't. 39 amendments. Kaida, you're not in a session in Ternopol. What are you doing? Amendment 39, People's Deputy Hirschweld. Are you insisting? No, it's not. 40, National Deputy Hirschweld.
ParlaMint-UA_2013-06-20-m0.u150	41 I insist, Amendments 40 and 41. It applies if the public authority has made the wrong decision, which will then be accused of having our officials responsible for a misjudgment that is then charged by the court, the administrative court.
ParlaMint-UA_2013-06-20-m0.u151	I'm betting on the vote of 40 People's Deputies of Hirschfeld. Please vote. [[12:52:43]] For 132 Against – 2, held – 26, not a vote – 230. The decision is not taken. I'm betting on the vote of 41 People's Deputies of Hirschfeld. Please vote for the people's deputies. [[12:53:07]] For 113 Against 3, held – 22, not voted – 253. The decision is not taken. 42 repairs to Odarchenka. Please turn on the microphone.
ParlaMint-UA_2013-06-20-m0.u152	Thank you, Vladimir Vasilovich. Vladimir Vasilovich, I wanted to ask: Where is the reporter? You're so helpful to the government that you work for him in the sweat of your face. As far as I'm concerned. Dear colleagues, do you know what happens when many people get the right to something extra? There's a turn of these extracurriculars. In the Code of Administrative Judiciality, we've had so many articles on extracurricular consideration. What becomes unclear is how judges are able to deal with normal cases. And strangely enough, all these first-line cases are the prosecutions of officials against people, not the other way around. And so I propose that we do not deprive our citizens of access to justice, we do not enforce this law until the administrative courts are adequately extended to deal with the influx of such claims from the privileged caste of officials. I ask you to support my amendment, Vladimir Vasilovich.
ParlaMint-UA_2013-06-20-m0.u153	I bet on the vote amendment of 42 People's Deputies of Odarchenka. Please vote. [[12:54:43]] For-129 Something the Fatherland faction, Deputy Odarchenko, doesn't support. "For" – 129 – 1, held – 27, not a vote – 236. The decision is not taken. Yes, the final amendment of the Odarchenka People's Deputy. Please, 44th.
ParlaMint-UA_2013-06-20-m0.u154	Vladimir Vasilovich, well, I hope that this time you will support and vote in favour of this last amendment. Dear friends, this bill can't be adopted at all, because it opens the way for the destruction of any production by an official's will. Tomorrow the controller will be able to come to anyone and take such measures that his business will be destroyed within a few weeks. And this bill, instead of setting up mechanisms to protect a person from an official, sets up a system to protect an official from a human being. The bill is not balanced at all, obviously, it was written not for the people but for the controlling authorities. Volodymyr Vasilovich, it seems you're already preparing for the presidential election and you want to intimidate the entrepreneur by adopting this law. Prove that you are a democratic head and vote for my amendment.
ParlaMint-UA_2013-06-20-m0.u155	We take the example of opposition. I bet on the vote amendment of 44 People's Deputies of Odarchenka. Please vote. [[12:56:26]] For-103 You can see what I voted for. "Aye" – 103, vs – 4, held – 60, did not vote – 226. The decision is not taken. The factions. I'm on the faction, it's one of the Party of Regions that voted. Ladies and gentlemen, I'm putting it to a vote. Please sit down, you'll run. Deputity Evening, your law. I would like to vote on draft Act No. 2698 amending certain Ukrainian legislative acts to remove restrictions on the introduction of economic activity. For adoption in the second reading and in general. Please vote. [[12:57:42]] For 232 Against 67, held – 44, not a vote – 51. Decision taken. The factions, please. Ladies and gentlemen, a minute of announcement. We discussed the question of re-election of Ukrainian national deputies, factions leaders, and agreed that we would continue our consultations. These questions will not be considered today. Doesn't anyone mind? Maybe someone's insisting? Let's move on to the question. The question of the election and release of judges is being considered. Honourable deputies, the leader of the Alexander Sergiyovich Efraemov faction, ask for a vote on the extension of the session until the day-to-day consideration is completed. God loves a trinity. I'll bet you a vote. [[12:59:36]] For the 220. [[B in m in s a l in]] Against 28, held – 13, not voted – 128. The decision is not taken. The factions. Ladies and gentlemen, this is the fourth time I'm not going to bet. I want to read by factions who want to work and who doesn't. For the job they voted: The Party of Regions – 177, Fatherland – 0, Hit Vitalia Klicka – 0, Freedom – 0, the Company, to work – 31 and non-fractional – 12. Let's look at the judges and then I'll give them. The question of the election of judges and the release of judges is being considered. So let's move on to the question, and I invite you to a report by the deputy head of the High Qualifying Commission of Judges, Milo Grigorovitch Pinchuck. Please consider draft regulation 2194a-6. Please report this order.
ParlaMint-UA_2013-06-20-m0.u156	I propose to select judges without delay for positions (draft Decree No. 2194a-6): Olander Igor Jaroslavovich is the judge of the Supreme Administrative Court; Vasic Victoria Vasilovna, Cononenko Olen Mikolain, Judges of the Court of Appeal of the Dnipropetrov Region; Igor Mikolaiovich's likeness is the judge of the Dnipropetrov Court of Appeal.
ParlaMint-UA_2013-06-20-m0.u157	I'm betting on the vote, distinguished national MPs. Sit down, we have to vote! Please sit down. I'm betting on the Supreme Council Resolution (2194a-6) on the election of judges on an indefinite basis. Please vote. [[13:02:58]] For 263 Against – 1, held – 6, did not vote – 119. Decision taken. The factions. You see the factions. Report to Project Regulation 2194a-7.
ParlaMint-UA_2013-06-20-m0.u158	I propose that the judges be elected on an uninterrupted basis: the Court of Appeal of the Hmeljna District Judge Zaik Viktor Mikolaiovich; Wynnicki City Court of Vinnitsk, Siczuk Mikolaiovich; The Lord's District Court of the Donetsk Region of the Podlipen of Eugene Alexandrovich; The proletarian district court of Donecka Lebedenko Svetlana Volodymyrovna; The Melitopol Regional Court of Zaporozhye District of Kovalov Valériyov; Kyiv District Court of Odessa Kurilenko Oksana Mikhaylovna; Chernigiv District Court of the Chernigiv District of Maybeard Svetlana Mikolayevna; Poltava District Administrative Court Boyk Sergija Sergiyovich; The commercial court of the Kyiv district of Jarem Valeriy Anatoliyovich.
ParlaMint-UA_2013-06-20-m0.u159	Please, National Deputy Lazko.
ParlaMint-UA_2013-06-20-m0.u160	Dear Volodymira Vasilovich, please remove from the list the judge of the Chernigiv District Court of Maybeard. The last time the draft decision was considered, it was deleted. If necessary, I will base my proposal. Thank you.
ParlaMint-UA_2013-06-20-m0.u161	Do you have any comments, Mr. Head?
ParlaMint-UA_2013-06-20-m0.u162	No, we're going to vote now, and then you're going to give information, and we're going to put it separately, separately. I'm betting on the vote of the Supreme Council of Ukraine (number 2194a-7), excluding the name Maybeard of Svetlana Mikolayovna. Please vote for the people's deputies. [[13:05:39]] For 261 Against 0, held – 6, not voted – 116. Decision taken. The factions. Please provide information immediately on the Maybeard to Svetlana Mikolayovna.
ParlaMint-UA_2013-06-20-m0.u163	The Santa Clauses, who came to the High Qualifying Commission, found that they were not justified because the grounds for bringing the judge to disciplinary responsibility were not found.
ParlaMint-UA_2013-06-20-m0.u164	May I have a moment, National Deputy Lazko?
ParlaMint-UA_2013-06-20-m0.u165	Honourable Volodymira Vasilovich, distinguished colleagues, judge of the Maybeard District Court of Chernigiv district, was considering a case that was actually being held by a peasant in the village of Chernigiv. Her decision was annulled, declared illegal. They did not receive land rations for a long time because the tenant who had rented land for years did not pay for land rations. When the villagers went to court to defend their rights rather than get protection, they were sent and strengthened by a court decision. That's why I'm asking my fellow MPs not to support judges who discredit the judiciary in Ukraine and actually fortify Ukrainian peasants. Thank you.
ParlaMint-UA_2013-06-20-m0.u166	Ladies and gentlemen, will you listen to the judge for a moment? Please, Majbeard Svetlana Mikolayevna. And then we'll make decisions. Where's Svetlana Mikolayevna? Where's he going? There's a balcony over there. Please come here. Ah, there's a microphone there. To the microphone. Please, Svetlana Mikolayevna. You've got a minute. Please, there's a report to tell you what?
ParlaMint-UA_2013-06-20-m0.u167	What can I say?
ParlaMint-UA_2013-06-20-m0.u168	Did you hear what question the National MP asked or not?
ParlaMint-UA_2013-06-20-m0.u169	I heard a question, but these cases were being considered, like me, all the judges. All the judges made the same decisions. All made similar decisions.
ParlaMint-UA_2013-06-20-m0.u170	Did you hear that?
ParlaMint-UA_2013-06-20-m0.u171	It was a practice.
ParlaMint-UA_2013-06-20-m0.u172	There was a report. Shall we put it to the vote? I think Svetlana Mikolayevne Maybeard should be supported. [[B in m in s a l in]] I'm betting on the election of Judge Majbeard Svetlana Mikolayevna. Please vote. [[13:09:07]] For 196 Against – 11, held – 38, did not vote – 135. The decision is not taken. The decree of the Supreme Council of Ukraine (number 2194a-8) is being considered. Please report.
ParlaMint-UA_2013-06-20-m0.u173	I propose to select judges who have been elected on an indefinite basis in the positions of judges: the Court of Appeal of the Dnipropetrov district of Svistunov Olen Viktorovna; The Court of Appeal of the Donetsk Region of Kosmachevsk Tetjana Viktorovna; the Court of Appeal of the Zitomir District of the City of Stépanović, Yakuhna Alexandr Mihajlovich; the Court of Appeal of the Zacarpathian District of Dvornik Volodymyr Ivanovich; the Court of Appeal of the Kirovograd district of Golša Oleg Anatoliyovich; the Court of Appeal of the Plain region of Piscunov Volodymyr Mikolayovich; The Court of Appeal of the Suman District of Boyka Vitali Borisovich; The Court of Appeal of the Hmeljna District of Spiridon Tetjana Victorian; the Court of Appeal of the Chernigiv district of Oneshchenko Olen Ivanovna; Kharkiv's Court of Appeal, Tarasov Irina Valerievna; Herson County Administrative Court of Gypani Sergey Ilarionovich
ParlaMint-UA_2013-06-20-m0.u174	May I put it to a vote? I'm betting on the vote of the Supreme Council of Ukraine on (2194a-8) the election of judges on an untimely basis. People's deputies, please vote. [[13:11:30.]] For 263 Against 0, held – 5, not voted – 113. Decision taken. Judgement 2194a-9 is under consideration. Report.
ParlaMint-UA_2013-06-20-m0.u175	I propose that judges who have been elected on an open-ended basis be elected to the positions of judges: the Court of Appeal of the Ravena district of Ostapuk Viktor Ivanovich; the Court of Appeal of Kiev Križanivska Hanna Volodymyrna; The Lviv Administrative Court of Appeal of Kuril Andriy Romanović; Dnipropetrov's Barrezkin Olen Volodymyrovna Court of Appeal, Darmin Mikhail Alexanderovich, Koval Love Anatoliyevna, Parhomenko Natalija Volodymyrovna, and Czerdko Anton Evgenovich.
ParlaMint-UA_2013-06-20-m0.u176	I'm betting on the vote of the Supreme Council of Ukraine (No.2194a-9) on the election of judges on an untimely basis. People's deputies, please vote. [[13:12:59]] For 262 Against 0, held – 5, not voted – 112. Decision taken. Please show the factions. Decision No. 2194a-3 of the Supreme Council of Ukraine is being considered. Please report.
ParlaMint-UA_2013-06-20-m0.u177	I propose that the judges who have been elected on an untimely basis be elected judges: the Court of Appeal of the Czernovetsk Region of Olijnik Mikol Vasilovic; Dnipropetrov's Court of Appeal, Grand Nadia Leonidovna; Odessa’s Court of Appeal, Morshagina, Natalia Stanislavna
ParlaMint-UA_2013-06-20-m0.u178	I'm betting on the vote of the Supreme Council of Ukraine (No.2194a-3) on the election of judges on an untimely basis. Please vote for the people's deputies. [[13:14:12]] For 266 Against – 0 held – 6, did not vote – 108. Decision taken. Report to Regulation 2194a-4.
ParlaMint-UA_2013-06-20-m0.u179	The candidate for the post of Judge of the Court of Appeal of the Dnipropetrov region of Chumak, Alexiyevna, was unable to appear. According to the executive duty of the head of the Central District Court of Clumac Clumac The Alexievna Hope of June 19, this year is in the advisory room. As far as her activities are concerned. After making recommendations, she received a complaint that was considered as the Higher Qualifications Committee. And for violating the terms of the court's decision, she's been declared reprieved. She's gone.
ParlaMint-UA_2013-06-20-m0.u180	I'll bet you a vote. She's not here? Do you want to take it off the table? Copy that. Report the Order (2194a-5).
ParlaMint-UA_2013-06-20-m0.u181	An offer is made to elect Lyubinecki Mikola Volodymyrovich as Judge of the Alustin City Court of the Autonomous Republic of Crimea.
ParlaMint-UA_2013-06-20-m0.u182	Please, Capplin? Please, National Deputy Capplin.
ParlaMint-UA_2013-06-20-m0.u183	First, I would like to express the hope that justice will be added with the new judges in the judicial system. Or the voters say that the judges have already begun to work as money changers. And about the candidature. You know, this person, the former deputy prosecutor of Alushta City, who was previously released for misbehavior in the prosecutor's office, is coming to the Supreme Council for the third time to become a judge and we don't vote for her for the third time. We have been fighting about not voting and ignoring this candidate as representatives of the Party of Regions in particular, the Fatherland, the Freedoms, the Strike, and we have no reason to allow ourselves, in terms of how unprofessional this judge and in terms of his moral qualities to vote for him. Therefore, we have a clear requirement to reject this candidature because it was present in criminal matters and according to criminal records a woman was led to suicide. Thank you.
ParlaMint-UA_2013-06-20-m0.u184	Alexander Kugel from Fatherland, please.
ParlaMint-UA_2013-06-20-m0.u185	We ask all the members of the Supreme Council to withdraw this candidature because for inaction, disrespect and failure to comply with the laws, this man has led to the suicide of a single mother. A child was left without a mother. And this man has not been punished. It cannot be approved by the deputies of the Supreme Council of Ukraine. We're asking you to withdraw his candidacy.
ParlaMint-UA_2013-06-20-m0.u186	Thank you. Mikola Volodymyrovich Lubinetsky, please speak.
ParlaMint-UA_2013-06-20-m0.u187	Ladies and gentlemen, I want only two sentences to say that you are enacting laws in which you define the organs in which we are being examined by the judges. These accusations sound to me for more than six years, and in fact from the mouth of one person who gives these questions away. But this question was discussed three times by the Council of Judges of Ukraine, three times by the Supreme Council of Ukraine, two times by the Supreme Council of Justice after I was here last year on the Supreme Council and all of them, as well as by the Administration of the President of Ukraine, and all of these bodies have found these charges to be unfounded. And all the documents in the Qualify Commission are.
ParlaMint-UA_2013-06-20-m0.u188	Thank you. From the Dry Region Party. They've already spoken from Fatherland. Party of regions.
ParlaMint-UA_2013-06-20-m0.u189	Dear colleagues, I want to remind you that we tried to choose this judge twice in 2012, he won zero votes first. Secondly, I don't know who's handing out the leaves there, but the case where a single mom got thrown out of the window as a result of all the hoaxing in Alushta, it's also on his conscience. Above all, the time will come, and the Supreme Council of Ukraine will not elect judges. It's going to be very European, it's going to be very fair and very balanced. Wait, Your Honor, until then, and you'll be a life judge, and now we won't walk you out.
ParlaMint-UA_2013-06-20-m0.u190	Did everyone say that? I'll bet you a vote. 2194a-5, the decision to elect a court is unscheduled. Please vote. [[13:20:14]] For the Against 71, held – 24, not voting – 281. The decision is not taken. That's it. The factions. Ladies and gentlemen, all the decisions regarding the election of judges have been discussed with you. Let us welcome the judges who have been elected on an untimely basis and wish them objectivity in their work. Thank you. Good luck! Ladies and gentlemen, let's move on to the question of the dismissal of judges. I invite you to report to the Deputy Head of the High Council of Justice, Alexander Sergiyovich Udovicenko. A draft Order (No.2195a-1) on the release of judges is under consideration. Please.
ParlaMint-UA_2013-06-20-m0.u191	Order of the Supreme Council of Ukraine on the release of judges According to article 126, part five, paragraph 9, of the Constitution of Ukraine, to release judges: The Supreme Special Court of Ukraine on civil and criminal matters of Litvinov Alexandr Mikolajovic – in connection with the application for exemption at your own request. Dnipropetrov's Economic Court of Tupicky Alexander Mikolaiovich – in connection with the application for exemption at your own request.
ParlaMint-UA_2013-06-20-m0.u192	I'll bet you a vote. Order of the Supreme Council of Ukraine (2195a-1) on the release of judges. Please vote. [[13:22:14]] For 235 Against – 1, held – 31, did not vote – 112. Decision taken. I see you're running fast. The Decree (No. 2195a-2) is being considered.
ParlaMint-UA_2013-06-20-m0.u193	According to article 126, part five, paragraph 9, of the Constitution of Ukraine, to release judges: Ukraine's Supreme Special Court of Civil and Criminal Affairs, Dibou Vasil Guriyovich, in connection with the application for resignation; The Supreme Administrative Court of the Ukraine of Hashický Aleksandra Vasilovic, in relation to the application for resignation; The Supreme Economic Court of Ukraine, Kovalenko Svetlana Sergiyevna, in connection with the application for resignation; the Court of Appeal of the Autonomous Republic of Crimea, Valentina Alexandrovna, in connection with the application for resignation; the Court of Appeal of the Vinnitsk Region of Martianov Love Ivanovna, in connection with the application for resignation; the Court of Appeal of the Volin district of Matat Aleksandr Volodymyrovic, in connection with the application for resignation. the Court of Appeal of the Dnipropetrov Region of Chebikin, Vitali Petrovich, in connection with the application for resignation; the Court of Appeal of the Kyiv district of Korzachenko Irina Fedorovna, in connection with the application for resignation; the Court of Appeal of the Luhansk Region of Prigornev Ludmila Ivanovna, in connection with the application for resignation. the Court of Appeal of the Odessa District of Carnations, Mikolayevna, in connection with the application for resignation; the Court of Appeal of the Kharkiv District of Transnistria Aleksandra Alexiyyovich, in connection with the application for resignation; the Court of Appeal of Kyiv Dmitrenko Galina Mikhailovna, in connection with the application for resignation; the Court of Appeal of the City of Sevastopol, Harchenka Mikolu Sergiyyovich, in connection with the application for resignation; The Kyiv Administrative Court of Appeal, Denisov Anatolia Alexiyovich, in connection with the application for resignation; The Red Cross Regional Court of the Autonomous Republic of Crimea, Starodub Galina Antonovna, in connection with the application for resignation; The Feodosian City Court of the Autonomous Republic of Crimea Lošakov Tetjana Anatoliyevna, in connection with the application for resignation; The Royal District Court of the Dnipropetrov region of Ritatov Viktor Ivanovich, in connection with the application for resignation; The Lenin District Court of Dnipropetrovska Tarasenka Alexandra Alexiyyovich, in connection with the application for resignation; The Uzhgorod Regional Court of Zakarpatsk, King Yuri Andriyovich, in connection with the application for resignation; The Vilnius District Court of Zaporozhye district of Shevchenk Viktor Ivanovich, in connection with the application for resignation;
ParlaMint-UA_2013-06-20-m0.u194	Ladies and gentlemen, please, Peter Mikolaiovich Simonenko.
ParlaMint-UA_2013-06-20-m0.u195	The distinguished rapporteur, please answer the simple question, they have applied for resignation. They've already reached the age they're supposed to have, or will they have that achievement tomorrow, after tomorrow, and they've already filed an application today to get some money out of the budget? Are you going to tell all these judges they've already got a deadline, a number of years that allows them to retire?
ParlaMint-UA_2013-06-20-m0.u196	For all of these judges, all of these judges have legal grounds for resigning. Some have reached the age of 65, some have not reached the limit, but the work required for the retirement of judges is in all of them. I can't tell you a specific amount it's determined by law.
ParlaMint-UA_2013-06-20-m0.u197	I'm asking for a national MP from Yavorowski.
ParlaMint-UA_2013-06-20-m0.u198	Vladimir Yavorowski, Fatherland, Kiev, Troyshina. Dear Mr. Widowishenko, I do not remember for my MP practice that there is immediately such a great swath of judges who voluntarily resign. I realize there are people there who have reached critical age, and that's perfectly clear, according to the legislation, they resign. But there is a group of judges who voluntarily resigned. Is that not a signal, at least I have the right to think that there are honest people in Ukraine who do not want to be judges and resign, and who will work in some other position? Is that a yes or a no? Condemn or confirm.
ParlaMint-UA_2013-06-20-m0.u199	I think this question should be addressed to a particular judge. It was they who showed their desire, we checked the existence of reasons, and whether it really was their own wish, whether there was pressure on them and everything else. They confirmed that this was their own desire, and no pressure was exerted on them.
ParlaMint-UA_2013-06-20-m0.u200	Ladies and gentlemen, I am putting to the vote the Supreme Council of Ukraine (2195a-2) decree on the release of judges. Please vote. [[13:27:45]] For 255 Against 0, held – 5, not voted – 116. Decision taken. The factions. Thank you for your consideration. Honourable National MPs, all deputies requested, and in the morning we agreed to consider a draft Law amending article 90 of the Ukrainian Budget Code (for the inclusion of expenditure on certain general educational institutions in the budget of the Autonomous Republic of Crimea and District Budgets). Let's see, this is where we add up. There's nothing to discuss. Let's take this law (2087) as a whole. I'm asking the committee manager. Please.
ParlaMint-UA_2013-06-20-m0.u201	Dear colleagues, we need to adopt this law in order to resolve the situation with high schools, boarding schools and boarding schools. If we don't do this session, they won't open in the new school year of September 1. We got to this piece of legislation that you have, the amendments to the Ministry of Finance and the Ministry of Education and Science. Given that we have no time until the end of the session to watch, yet to consider in the second reading, there is a request, a proposal such that we now apply the once-in-a-lifetime deviation of ad-hoc from the procedures provided for in article 50 of the Rules and take into account the following changes to the bill. And I'm going to read it in that paper that is consistent with the Ministry and the Executive Authority. There is such a request.
ParlaMint-UA_2013-06-20-m0.u202	Please.
ParlaMint-UA_2013-06-20-m0.u203	Yeah, well, we need to vote on the ad-hoc. 2087, he was supported by a budget committee yesterday.
ParlaMint-UA_2013-06-20-m0.u204	Ladies and gentlemen, we have two laws. We have two laws. The committee supported Law 2087.
ParlaMint-UA_2013-06-20-m0.u205	Budget Committee.
ParlaMint-UA_2013-06-20-m0.u206	The Committee on Budgets supported this law. So let's take a look at this law and make a decision.
ParlaMint-UA_2013-06-20-m0.u207	For ad-hoc, for ad-hoc, so that I can read under the transcript the right line.
ParlaMint-UA_2013-06-20-m0.u208	Let's vote so that we can consider now both on the basis and in general.
ParlaMint-UA_2013-06-20-m0.u209	Dear colleagues, we will not be able to make another reading at this session. So there's a proposition: the right one, which is consistent with Minfin and Minosveta.
ParlaMint-UA_2013-06-20-m0.u210	Dear national MPs, there is a denial, so let's take this law as a basis. [[B in m in s a l in]] Because I see that, Vladimir Mikhailovich, we will not accept now. Let's take it as a basis, the committees work and we'll take it next Sunday.
ParlaMint-UA_2013-06-20-m0.u211	Dear colleagues!
ParlaMint-UA_2013-06-20-m0.u212	I beg of the faction. Alexander Sergiyovich, please.
ParlaMint-UA_2013-06-20-m0.u213	In order to reach a compromise on this issue, it is necessary to prepare it as a basis and in a simplified procedure for the second reading. [[B in m in s a l in]] Thank you.
ParlaMint-UA_2013-06-20-m0.u214	I can't hear anything! Turn on the microphone of Ephraim.
ParlaMint-UA_2013-06-20-m0.u215	Take it as a basis and for a simplified procedure for the second reading to prepare it.
ParlaMint-UA_2013-06-20-m0.u216	Vladimir Mikhailovich Litvin.
ParlaMint-UA_2013-06-20-m0.u217	Dear Vladimir Vasilovich! Dear colleagues! I ask very little emotion to think that now parents do not know what to do with children — pick them up from their school or not; transfer them to a second school or not. This is funding from local budgets, the state budget doesn't need money. The Committee on Budgetary Questions considered, made comments. We need to take them into account and adopt the law. Where are you looking for politics here? Well, dear fellows, the Conciliation Council has agreed, there are district councils, so let's just make one human decision! What's politics for?
ParlaMint-UA_2013-06-20-m0.u218	Please, National Deputy Herman.
ParlaMint-UA_2013-06-20-m0.u219	Dear National Deputies! This is indeed a very important law. And that's why we asked you to vote today on a working day until such an hour as we can. [[B in m in s a l in]] Yeah, you don't want to work. You don't vote for us to work until we've passed all the laws, instead you force the hall to back off and make some bad decisions. Let's re-vote now the question of the continuation of the working day until we accept everything we have to. [[B in m in s a l in]] That we are responsible for people, and then we will continue to speak specifically under this law.
ParlaMint-UA_2013-06-20-m0.u220	Please, Jacinyuk, a national MP.
ParlaMint-UA_2013-06-20-m0.u221	Mr. Head! I address you as a wise man. You have children, grandchildren, and grandchildren. Please think of tens of thousands of children and their parents. There can be no policy distribution here. People, and let's vote, so that our children know where and how to learn, let's show that we, members of parliament, who care about a country that cares about Ukrainian youth, vote for this bill as a basis and as a whole and put a dot. So have a conscience, people!
ParlaMint-UA_2013-06-20-m0.u222	People's representative of Ephraim, please.
ParlaMint-UA_2013-06-20-m0.u223	Dear Vladimir Vasilevich! Dear colleagues! This issue is agreed with the Ministry of Finance. No one is going to close the school data. In accordance with the procedure that we have, let us vote on the basis, on the shortened procedure and on 2 July we will take a final decision. The same recommendation is made by the relevant Committee of Budgets. Thank you.
ParlaMint-UA_2013-06-20-m0.u224	Ladies and gentlemen, let's at least define ourselves now. I'm going to put this law on the ground right now and then we're going to be, yes, no, no. I am voting on the bill, draft Law 2087 amending article 90 of the Ukrainian Budget Code to include expenditure on certain general education institutions in the budget of the Autonomous Republic of Crimea and district budgets for adoption as a basis. Please vote. Please vote on the ground! [[13:36:10]] For 359 Against - 0, held - 0, did not vote - 27. Decision taken. Let's put the committee on it. You want to break the law? Come on, let's go. Ladies and gentlemen. Yes, please, National Deputy Zubko.
ParlaMint-UA_2013-06-20-m0.u225	Dear colleagues, Reverend Vladimir Vasilovich, I will explain a little information. Now 100 pedagogical licenses, including sports facilities, have fallen under this rule in Ukraine. 56 are virtually out of work for today. Why? Because the district budgets of January 1, 2013, do not provide funding. Where they are now financed, it is in principle the goodwill of district councils to fund themselves. So this question was accepted by the budget of the previous call, I'm sorry. But today, just so you know, in view of the fact that there is no 90th article of the Code of Budget for this amendment, these chapters are now practically closed, the children who are gifted, who are and live in rural areas do not know what to do. And if we don't take this issue in general today, we're practically going to have to take the kids out of these chapters. Thank you. So I ask you very much to support this question and to vote on it as a whole. It's not a compromise. This is a matter of error that needs to be corrected. Thank you.
ParlaMint-UA_2013-06-20-m0.u226	National deputy Herman. I'm going to make a proposal now, because we're not going to make a decision, I see. Please.
ParlaMint-UA_2013-06-20-m0.u227	Dear fellow national MPs, once again I make a very specific proposal and I ask you to support it. Let's now vote on the question of continuing to work until we accept all the questions, and we will have time to work on this bill and vote on it as a whole. Very little is required of you to simply vote for the extension of the working day until we finish the work and this, including the bill. If you really have that much pain for the children and for the years and schools, you will sacrifice a few hours of your own time, vote, and we will continue our work, and we will work concretely and effectively. Thank you.
ParlaMint-UA_2013-06-20-m0.u228	Litwin. Litvin Volodymyr Mihajlovich.
ParlaMint-UA_2013-06-20-m0.u229	Dear Volodymyr Vasilovich, dear colleagues! Think of what we are proposing. I'm addressing the leader of the Alexander Sergiyovich faction. Let's reject this policy. What do we do fornicating? This is about children. By the way, the non-fractional voted in favour of continuing the meetings until the finalization of the agenda. You're voting in full! Don't come, don't ask us not to vote! Let us at least learn to speak the truth. People are waiting! They don't know what to do with children. They can't heal them, they don't know where to train them. And here we are doing gossip and nonsense! What a people we are, think! You approach one at a time, you say we vote. Then feel shyly pressing your hand, saying that they have not waved their hand. Is there an elementary conscience?Oh, my God! There's probably no conscience at all.
ParlaMint-UA_2013-06-20-m0.u230	People's deputy Heratchenko.
ParlaMint-UA_2013-06-20-m0.u231	Dear colleagues, of course, we find it very strange to hear appeals for something to vote on. I want to remind you that there is a majority in the Parliamentary Hall. And most of it is a faction that has 226 votes. So if you have 226 votes to vote for the extension of your working day, please vote, we are not blocking the rostrum. We let you make the decisions that you think are most necessary. This, please. But we appeal to you that there should be a constitutional majority to vote on all the things that the electorate needs. That there are rurals in Donetsk, that they're in Cherkaschi, that they're in Kiev, that's in Poltavian. Let's really show ourselves to the people's deputies of Ukraine without political jackets, without political ties right now here, without different political latins. And those representing the various political powers, why don't you vote for where the head of the opposition committee represents? Why don't you vote for where there isn't only a representative of your political power.
ParlaMint-UA_2013-06-20-m0.u232	Please, Freedom.
ParlaMint-UA_2013-06-20-m0.u233	Alexander Sich, the All-Ukrainian Freedom Union, Ivano-Frankivsky. Dear Mr. Head! Dear fellow MPs! This is a classic example of where there is no politics at all. You, each one of you, Donetsk or Lugansk or Frankivsky or Lviv region, tens of thousands of parents will say thanks only. Because many institutions for gifted children are now closed. Today, a suitable facility in Žitomir is on the verge of closure. So please let's put all our political ambitions behind us and vote in the regimead-hoc for this bill. Thank you.
ParlaMint-UA_2013-06-20-m0.u234	I beg you, the leader of the faction of the Party of the Regions, Alexander Sergiyovich Efraemov, please. [[B in m in s a l in]] National MP Yavorowski, one minute, please.
ParlaMint-UA_2013-06-20-m0.u235	Dear colleagues, our constituents! Those who listen to us may find it very easy to understand or understand what is happening to the national deputies in this room today. Volodymyr Vasilovich, reverend! I've known you for a long time and I'm sure you understand. Look, the first vote, when we voted on the basis, was actually almost unanimous. What are the reasons why we shouldn't vote in general? Well, there's no reason. We are required to vote for the extension of the day. So I'm sorry, three votes! You don't have a vote. You've forced the Chief of the Supreme Council to state that I'm more of a matter today, of continuing my work day. Vladimir Vasilovich, you said, "I'm not going to put this to a vote." Vladimir Vasilovich, confirm your reputation, do not put up with it, do not give up on your word. And we demand that both Fatherland and everyone put up and vote, and at least to clear their conscience a little bit today, by voting to solve the problem of parents and children.
ParlaMint-UA_2013-06-20-m0.u236	Please, Party of Regions, Chechetov.
ParlaMint-UA_2013-06-20-m0.u237	Dear Vladimir Vasilevich. Voice, voice, voice, voice, voice, voice! [[B in m in s a l in]] Dear Vladimir Vasilevich, distinguished colleagues! As they say, if you don't know what to do, do as you're told. There's a rule, there's a law. There are comments from the deputies. There are comments from the Ministry of Finance. You and I have already passed laws with all the speakers and in the past that hang like hanging and the money is not provided. Therefore, there is a principled position, both in the Rules and in the mind. We're in today. No school will close, we guarantee you, in these 10 days. It won't close! Next week, we will adopt and prepare a second reading law and vote for the entire room. This will be right, according to the Constitution, by law and by the Rules. The law will be adopted. But not on emotion, not on populism. Thank you.
ParlaMint-UA_2013-06-20-m0.u238	All of it. Everybody, sit down. Everybody, sit down. I'm making an offer. We have adopted the Law as a foundation. I propose that I vote to have the committee prepare this Law for the second reading and, in general, for July 2nd and submit it to the session hall. Please vote. [[13:45:49]] For 361 That's it, everyone said they accepted it. Against - 0, held - 0, did not vote - 22. Decision taken. Let's move on. There's an announcement. Today, World Refugee Day is celebrated. The Committee of the Supreme Council for Human Rights, National Minorities and International Relations and the Office of the United Nations High Commissioner for Refugees organized a photo exhibition on this topic that will open today at the third floor of the Supreme Council of Ukraine at 1430 minutes. Therefore, the committee invites national deputies. A draft Act (No. 2130) is under consideration to amend some Ukrainian legislation on the improvement of the procedure for the removal of land. I ask you to report to the head of the Committee on Agricultural Policy and Land Relations of King Oleg Anatoliyovich. Please.
ParlaMint-UA_2013-06-20-m0.u239	Dear comrades, respectable leader! [[B in m in s a l in]] Your consideration is based on a second reading, taking into account proposals and amendments made by legal entities, the draft Ukrainian Law on Amendments to certain Ukrainian legislative acts on improving the procedure and deposing of land. Since the adoption of the bill, 33 amendments and proposals have been made to the committee in the first reading, which are proposed to take 16 into account and to reject 17. The committee thanks the Ukrainian National Deputies for making their proposal to the bill. The amendments that have been rejected mainly relate to the cancellation of provisions supported by the Supreme Council of Ukraine in its first reading. In particular, this is a forecast of a deviation that allows the project to be commissioned by the land administration for land removal. No permission to do so in case. [[B in m in s a l in]] When further reading is done.
ParlaMint-UA_2013-06-20-m0.u240	Oleg, stop. "Freedom," speaking in Ukrainian, what are you doing? He speaks in national language. Listen to me!
ParlaMint-UA_2013-06-20-m0.u241	Before the amendments of the Ukrainian people's deputies. [[B in m in s a l in]] The committee has proposed an editorial setting up a mechanism in which a judicial decision establishing the illegality of the bodies of the executive board and the local self - government authorities that manage the land of state and municipal property. [[B in m in s a l in]] The proposed changes will stimulate executives and local authorities to consider the concerns of citizens in a timely and thorough manner. In view of the foregoing, we recommend that the Supreme Council of Ukraine adopt the bill in second reading and generally as a law. [[B in m in s a l in]] Dear colleagues! The distinguished members of the Freedom faction, the bill, are clearly anti-corruption. It introduces the principle of tacit consent. If, within 10 days, local councils, including Ternopolska, Lvivska, Ivano-Frankovsky, Ivano-Frankovska, do not respond to the removal of land, a court decision may be sought and a “silent consent” may be reached. I would like to recall that out of most of the proposals it has been taken into account, those that need to be rejected are divided into two kinds. The six proposals relate to the removal of the principle of tacit consent and are clearly corrupt. And 7 proposals are also corrupt because they propose to introduce a monopoly on the provision of documents, copies from a cadastral map that only one organization can provide. All other technical regulations have been taken into account and have been fully incorporated into the text of the law.
ParlaMint-UA_2013-06-20-m0.u242	Ladies and gentlemen, I'm putting an end to this. You can't work under these conditions. The Head of State speaks, you don't let him speak. I'm asking you to exchange your thoughts. Hanna Herman, please.
ParlaMint-UA_2013-06-20-m0.u243	Dear Mr. Head! Members of the Supreme Council receive some of the highest wages in Ukraine. We are faced with the responsibilities of the people at whose expense we live here. And I'm asking you again to put the question to the vote on the extension of your working day. For as much money as people pay you, you have to work as much as Ukraine and people need. I'm asking you to ask that question again, Mr. Head, because that's what people who are calling right here in this room are asking. They are amazed at how we, MPs, cannot spend a few hours of our working hours in order to adopt the laws needed for Ukraine and the people. It will be irresponsible for those who do not now vote for the extension of their workday. It's going to be an abuse of people's trust and that.
ParlaMint-UA_2013-06-20-m0.u244	After a minute, representatives of all factions. Now. And Easy, sit down, I see you're gonna talk, too. That's the Faction Impact, please, Capplin. Then it's Freedom.
ParlaMint-UA_2013-06-20-m0.u245	Sergey Kaplin, Vitaly Klitschka Faction. We assure you, we are ready to work all day long. But at the same time, we are aware that it is necessary to bring to the Supreme Council questions that the Ukrainians are really looking forward to. It's the abolition of pension reform, it's the changes to the Tax Code, but it's not in terms of promissory notes, it's in order to get rid of small businesses of an extremely heavy, heavy tax burden. We are ready to consider here the responsibility of those people today, as they have disgraced Ukraine, disgraced the Ukrainian people, oppressed the Ukrainian people, shaved and circumscribed today, submitted to the Supreme Council documents that have nothing to do with reforms. And I'd like to warn the Party of Regions. This is not the way to fake the process today. We're ready to work, but you're building up the agenda, not the Ukrainian people. So it's a shame to hear you say that.
ParlaMint-UA_2013-06-20-m0.u246	Miroshenko, please, the Freedom Union.
ParlaMint-UA_2013-06-20-m0.u247	Igor Miroshnichenko, the All-Ukrainian Freedom Union. Vladimir Vasilovich, my first quote to you. Well, let's start doing the rules for the rest of us. Then we remember yesterday's phrase that, well, if we want to break it again. We've put it to a vote, no votes, we're only working after the time that's taken. We attend all meetings regularly. I recommend to all factions, not Thursday, to take my deputies from the resorts, but to attend meetings every day. And then there will be enough votes to quickly adopt laws. Now for the language. You know, reverend regions, you don't have to train Ukrainians, you don't have to demonstrate your billingism here -- bilinguality, because you're not going to be billing, you're going to be bisexual. There are only two languages in the serpent, and one language and one national language. Start speaking Ukrainian -- thank you very much, we'll need some help. We can't let the Ukrainians get bullied. Glory to Ukraine!
ParlaMint-UA_2013-06-20-m0.u248	Igor, the Rules have to be enforced. You've blocked the Supreme Council for a month and a half. That's the whole Rules. And today we can work. The national deputy Yavorowski.
ParlaMint-UA_2013-06-20-m0.u249	Vladimir Yavorowski, Fatherland, Kiev, Troyshina. Dear colleagues, I'd very much like to explain to our electorate that they can understand what this is all about. Fatherland, the opposition forces are absolutely ready to work -- no one doubts that. As long as it takes, we're as ready to work. But I want the people who listen to us to understand what's behind this. They want to continue this time today because they want to "stretch" a few completely criminal, completely unnecessary laws: it's to ratify the Convention to hide money again in Cyprus; it's today to solve the Central Election Commission issue in order to form it so that we don't have anyone, no one. And so on. Wexley "stretch" his own to continue to corrupt people and to give money to his own people, and to give to others, to the common people of Ukraine, to give these papers. That's why we don't vote for the sequel. And we're not going to vote for it. Don't stop.
ParlaMint-UA_2013-06-20-m0.u250	Don't vote! The MPs are demanding, I'll put it to the vote. [[B in m in s a l in]] I'll bet you a vote. I'm continuing my session for 15 minutes. Baby, can I have a minute? Please prepare for the vote.
ParlaMint-UA_2013-06-20-m0.u251	Oleg Lazko, Radical Party. Dear Vladimir Vasilovich Ribak, Head of the Supreme Council! You have publicly given the word that you will no longer ask this question. "The kid said the kid did," but you have that expression. Keep your word, Vladimir Vasilovich. At your age, it's the most expensive thing you have, that's your reputation. Take care of her. Change the rules for a little bit. And with regard to the subject of the bill that we discussed with you on improving the process of land collection. This is an extremely important bill, and we need to consider it. It's going to allow less corruption in the land, and so we have to look at it. And as for why I don't personally vote for the extension of my job, the answer is very simple. If there were laws for people's interests in this room, we'd be working in the morning. The laws that enable States to steal are against them being considered here. Thank you!
ParlaMint-UA_2013-06-20-m0.u252	Oleg, you've lied to me a dozen times. I'm getting used to it. The MPs I'm talking about, not you personally. So, the Communist Party, are there any suggestions? Should the vote continue or not? Simonenko, please.
ParlaMint-UA_2013-06-20-m0.u253	Simonenko, the faction of the Company. Dear colleagues, it is clear that all those draft laws that the Supreme Council is considering and there is only one way to determine the future fate of this law -- to consider, discuss, express your point of view and vote, there is no other way. And now I want to go to our voters and comment again on what's going on. What's happening is that it's been almost five months or more, five months since we've gained our authority, the Supreme Council doesn't work. This is because the two clans are fighting for the President's future office, and this repeats everything that happened before. And this is the block that happened. Today, this delay in considering draft laws, the inability to organize normal work, all of this is the result of the unwillingness to enact laws for the people of Ukraine, which is what you are talking about, and this is just the desire to get power as soon as possible to continue, on the one hand, what you have done before, while in power and so on, let's say, looting.
ParlaMint-UA_2013-06-20-m0.u254	Ladies and gentlemen, at the request of the deputies, I am calling for a vote to work today until the day's agenda is completed. Please don't shout, just vote! Vote please! [[14:00:56]] For 225 [[B in m in s a l in]] I'm calling it a break. At 16 o'clock, we'll continue the session.
