ParlaMint-UA_2013-11-19-m0.u1	Ladies and gentlemen, good morning! May I have your attention, please? On November 17, 2013, at Kazan Airport, there was a plane crash called Boing-737, which took dozens of lives. Our compatriot was among the dead. We express our deepest sympathy and words of support to all family members and loved ones. Please honor the memory of those who died in the plane crash for a moment of silence. [[A Minute of Silence]] Please sit down. Dear National Deputies! I think that, in order to avoid similar tragedies in the future, I propose that the Supreme Council give a protocol mandate to the central executive authorities to analyse the state of compliance with the requirements for the safety of passenger aircraft and to take appropriate measures to prevent accidents in passenger transport. This protocol will be given to the Supreme Council of Ukraine. People's deputies, please prepare for registration. Please turn on the "Race" system. [[10:04:41]] 391 national deputies registered in the hall. I declare open the morning session of the Supreme Council of Ukraine. Today is the birthday of the Ukrainian national deputies Mikolia Dmitrovitch Catherineczuk and Eugene Vadimovich Morozenko. Let's say hello to our nouns. [[Applause]] Dear colleagues, in accordance with article 25 of the Rules on Tuesday, we have 30 minutes to present statements by authorized members of the MPs with proposals, announcements, statements, and messages. I'd like the factions to sign up for the performance. The speech is given to the national deputy, Oleg Tsagnibok. Please.
ParlaMint-UA_2013-11-19-m0.u2	Oleg Tuggnibok, faction of the All-Ukrainian Freedom Union. Dear Mr. Head, dear colleagues of the Ukrainian National Deputies! Brothers and sisters in Ukraine! It is approaching the 80th anniversary of one of the most tragic pages of Ukrainian history, the great Holodomor in 1932-1933. And the wounds inflicted on the Ukrainian nation during this terrible tragedy will continue to hurt the bodies of the Ukrainian people for a long time. That is why we, the Ukrainian politicians, today must make the most of this tragedy, so that we do our utmost to keep the world and Ukraine in mind these tragic days, those tragic months and years when millions, tens of millions of Ukrainians, have died because of artificial hunger. Killing by hunger is the biggest crime in the world. This is a demonstration of the genocide of the Ukrainian nation. And this genocide was committed by Moscow, it was carried out by the Communist regime, it was carried out by a man-hating ideology, which clearly needs to be banned, and which is condemned, as is Nazism, all over the world. Regardless of the fact that the Law on honoring the memory of the victims of Holodomor has already been passed in our country, the present authorities have found that they are doing virtually nothing to ensure that the memory of the Ukrainians is properly respected. Unfortunately, what the authorities are doing today, what the President is doing today, is just cosmetic steps. Despite the fact that similar measures are taking place worldwide, measures are being taken to honor Ukrainians. In particular, we have information about what is happening, for example, in France, Spain, in the United States. These countries, with the initiative of the public, are conducting appropriate measures, organizing appropriate theatrical activities, conducting prayers, honoring Ukrainians. And we have in Ukraine just to get away from each other, just to put up a twig. In fact, for three years now, an official committee, an org committee, has not been meeting together to resolve these issues. Regrettably, the second turn of the Holocaust Memorial has not been launched. Well, in the last few days, we've just got, well, an incredible message. It turns out that now the entrance to the museum of Holodomor, the entrance to the memorial, is paid. Nowhere in the world is such a country allowed. When the memory of the victims of the nation is honored, it is simply a demonstration of a demonstration that the authorities evidently want to limit the number of people who could come and see the truth that was then done against the Ukrainians. Unfortunately, in parallel with the ministries of some, especially the Ministry of Internal Affairs and other departments of our state, portraits of those murderers, those Ukrainian haters, those who caused the organization and the direct commission of these crimes during the year 1932-1933. Unfortunately, the current authorities are now doing absolutely nothing to increase the number of countries at the international level that would acknowledge the genocide of Ukrainians in 1932-1933 by acts, particularly artificial hunger. Despite the official genocide of the Ukrainian nation and the condemnation of countries such as Australia, Andorra, Argentina, Brazil, the Vatican, Georgia, Ecuador, Estonia, Spain, Italy, Canada, Colombia, Latvia, Lithuania, Mexico, Paraguay, Peru, Poland, Slovakia, the United States, Hungary, Czech Republic, Chile, we should bow our heads and thank those countries and finally approve the necessary decisions here in Parliament, but there is no such thing. We remember how the parliamentary majority rejected our bill to honor the memory of the victims of the 1980s. This week, therefore, we must return to that question. We have already discussed on the Conciliation Council this subject, which we would like to have with you here this week or on Thursday, or on Friday to approve a corresponding joint statement, where we have focused on this issue and addressed representatives from different countries. Besides, Mr. Head, I've already addressed you and, as I understand it, there is an acceptable position that we would have at the end of the week to honor the memory of the victims of the Hunger of 1932-1933 by a minute of silence here in the Supreme Council of Ukraine. What does the All-Ukrainian Freedom Union require? We believe that we should adopt the necessary initiatives to ensure that our Ukrainian Parliament, as well as the parliaments of the world that have not yet acknowledged this fact, should recognize as a crime against humanity the fact that Hunger was a genocide against the Ukrainian nation in 1932-1933. We need to reopen a criminal case based on the fact of the Holodomor in 1932-1933, which means it must be a crime for which no statutes of limitations are applied. We must impose a severe criminal responsibility for the public denial of the Holocaust as a genocide of the Ukrainian nation. And today we have to formally demand from Moscow an apology, a confession and compensation for the genocide of Ukrainians, for the Holodomor of 1932-1933. The memory must remain in our hearts. Just remembering the past.
ParlaMint-UA_2013-11-19-m0.u3	Finish up.
ParlaMint-UA_2013-11-19-m0.u4	Only by remembering the past can we count on the future. Glory to Ukraine!
ParlaMint-UA_2013-11-19-m0.u5	The Fatherland faction. The leader of the Arsenius Yatzenuk faction. Please.
ParlaMint-UA_2013-11-19-m0.u6	Honorable Members of the Ukrainian Parliament! Ukraine is a nation with a thousand-year history, and in our history there have been great statesmen. It was Prince Vladimir who baptized Ukraine, Russia, and made our nation part of the European civilization, and that's why he became Volodymyr the Great. It was his autumn, Jaroslav, who signed interstate agreements and also made Ukraine part of Europe. And that's why he became Jaroslav the Wise. There were other government officials in Ukraine. One of these was written by Taras Shevchenko in his poem "The Ruin of the Grave." He wrote, "Oh, Bogdan, Bogdan, if I had known that I would have smothered her in her pillow, she would have fallen asleep under her heart." What will the Ukrainian story of another active statesman, Victor? It seems to me that none of the Ukrainian historians, unless Tobacco, dares to write about Viktor Yanukovic at all if Viktor Yanukovic fails the historic chance for the Ukrainian State and the Ukrainian people to become a member of the European Union and join Ukraine in our European partners. We are facing a historic challenge and a historic chance of where Ukraine will be and with whom Ukraine will be with. But our political opponents, unfortunately, are just talking, and they're doing something completely different. If a party of regions had previously been essentially "the emptiness signal" only within the country, there was now a new kind of political trade, the emptiness was sold to our European partners for export, promising and lying, saying that we were going to the European Union and not taking any steps that allowed Ukraine and Ukraine to feel part of the great European community. Even the United States Senate adopted yesterday a resolution urging Ukraine and the European Union to make a choice. Everyone's in favor, except for the Party of Regions and this President Viktor Yanukovic. We want to make it very clear, as the Ukrainian opposition, that these are our programming principles for Ukraine to sign the Agreement with the European Union. It is the will of the people of Ukraine, most of whom want Ukraine to become truly a European state. And Victor Janukovic will never change that expression. What the people of Ukraine want will be done, will be implemented now, implemented, ratified, and Ukraine will indeed be a worthy member of the European Union. But to that end, we call upon this President and this government, and this so-called majority. There's only a few plenary days left, you don't have faith. But we are voting in favour of all the bills, I stress, for all that is necessary to remove any obstacles on Ukraine's path to the European Union. Fear, namely, the personal fear of Viktor Yanukovitch against one person, can cloud our European prospects before Julius Timoshenko. That is why we insist. First. In order for the President of Ukraine to come to Parliament and sign all the bills necessary for European integration. The other one. This does not address the issue of European integration, not by members of the Party of Regions and not by MPs from the PR, but by Viktor Janukovic himself. That's why we're addressing Yanukovic, taking full political responsibility and giving direction to the Party of Regions not to pull or delay the process of European integration, but to vote on all European laws immediately. Third. As Ukrainian opposition, we turn to the people of Ukraine. On November 24th, public organizations, political parties and opposition political factions will be holding a great national event "For the European Union!".. To make Ukraine and Ukraine feel that we are capable of fighting for our rights, and we are addressing everyone and everyone who wants to see their future as European and civilized, come to Midan on 24 November, which will allow each of us to defend our right to choose and show who is in our Ukrainian state, and this is the Ukrainian people, who are the European people. Glory to Ukraine!
ParlaMint-UA_2013-11-19-m0.u7	The faction of the Party of the Regions, National Deputy Hanna Herman, please.
ParlaMint-UA_2013-11-19-m0.u8	After Arsenius Petrovich would like to mention another line about Bogdan Hmelnick: "You are Bogdan, Bogdanek, you foolish Gethtman!".. Dear friends! People's deputies! Journalists! To save time, I will not talk about Prince Vladimir the Great and his sons, nor about the responsibility that lies with us for the time remaining for the Vilnius summit. The price of the question is also known as the known price of the answer. We know how much a positive solution will cost Ukraine, and we know the price we will pay for the negative answer. We all know that and realize that. [[B in m in s a l in]] I am convinced that no one in this room wants to harm Ukraine. Despite the political limitations of today’s composition of the Supreme Council in its vast majority of parliaments, it is patriotic. It's true that this patriotism is understood in its own way. But I think, somehow, everyone thinks that the categories are sufficiently state-owned -- everyone, without exception, and those who think that getting close to the European Union will harm Ukraine's economy, and those who believe that Eurostandarts are the only chance for Ukraine's economy to become more and more competitive. Fortunately, the Fifth Column of the so-called Ukrainian Choice marches outside this House. The question therefore arises: Why can we not unite our efforts to make progress on a Euro-integration basis in the days that separate us from the Vilnius Summit? The answer is well - known. The opposition is convenient for the authorities to fail to sign the Association Agreement, because then the opposition seems to take over the initiative and thus secure its victory in 2015. That was the false belief of the opposition and was the cause of the 500 amendments made by the opposition to one of the European integration laws. This is the reason why opposition emissaries travel across all European capitals and whisper to European leaders that they say do not sign the treaty because Ukraine is not ready to do so. This is the reason why the leader of the opposition is turning to the International Monetary Fund and asking that Ukraine not be granted credit. And that's the reason that the representative of UDARA yesterday, when a working group was working on a bill on the treatment of prisoners, when an agreement and agreement had been reached, suddenly popped up like a "Pip from the hemp" with some kind of amendment and completely destroyed this agreement that had been made in the working group for four hours. I want to ask you, dear committee colleague, why did you do that? So I'm very sorry that the opposition doesn't realize that if Ukraine loses its time today, there will be no winners, because there is no victory where there is no state. The opposition must forget about the elections, about its own political ambitions, about who will use the signing or not to sign this long - suffering agreement. My dear friends, the President has the political will to ensure a positive outcome in Vilnius on favourable conditions for Ukraine. I repeat, on favourable terms for Ukraine. That is the political will that we have, in the parliamentary majority. I believe it's part of our opponents. Most of all, that is the will of most of our people. You know, the latest sociological research: more than 60 Ukrainian citizens for their Euro-Inclusion Choice, including 50 percent of East and South Ukrainians for their Euro-Inclusion Choice. That's a lot, guys. So what prevents us from reaching agreement and adopting just two bills that are not approved by the so-called Euro-Integration Package? Or is there a law that prevents us from treating sick prisoners abroad? I don't think so. This problem can be solved, not by dictatorship and ultimatums, but by consensus and goodwill, not by throwing out hatred and accusations, but by respect for authority. We will not achieve anything with hatred, and we will gain much by harmony and love. And the first person to understand that is Julia Timoshenko herself. Until she closes her heart to hatred, hatred will always destroy her life wherever she is, whether at will or in prison. Dear friends, the week that began is extremely important for Ukraine not only in view of the grandfather-line in the matter of Euro-integration, but this week brings us closer to a sad date -- the 80th anniversary of the Holocaust in Ukraine. Would these two be related to each other? Yes, of course. Because in 1932-1933, Ukraine had the right to manage its own destiny.
ParlaMint-UA_2013-11-19-m0.u9	Let me finish.
ParlaMint-UA_2013-11-19-m0.u10	There wasn't a holodome tragedy. I would like to believe that in this moment of responsibility for Ukraine, we will reach an understanding and the treaty will be signed, not against anyone, but for the future of our people, not at the expense of trust on the part of them. A loss of confidence on the part of the Russian Federation, and in the name of Ukraine’s right to manage its own destiny, has been established once and for all. Thank you for your attention.
ParlaMint-UA_2013-11-19-m0.u11	Thank you. The faction of the Ukrainian Company, leader of the Peter Simonenko faction.
ParlaMint-UA_2013-11-19-m0.u12	Dear citizens of Ukraine! Despite all the obstacles that the authorities and the so-called opposition have made, despite all the wrong decisions by the courts and the CTC and the threats to ban the activities of the Ukrainian Company, despite the intimidation of national activists, especially from various neo-Nazi and criminal groups, and the police pressure of the force structures, we have collected the three million signatures needed to hold the All-Ukrainian referendum to determine the course of external economic integration. Taking this opportunity, I would like to thank all of you, honourable citizens, regardless of how they feel about the vector of integration, to express my sincere thanks for supporting the position of the communists that all of Ukraine's concerns should be decided by the people of Ukraine through a referendum. Ukraine's company has repeatedly warned that the signing of the EU Association Agreement on the terms proposed by Brussels and the International Monetary Fund is a betrayal of the people of Ukraine, a betrayal of national interests, this affair is the way to lose the economic and political sovereignty of our country. Speaking from this rostrum, I have already cited undeniable examples and calculations of the tragic consequences of the Euro-Integration Madness, resulting in thousands of small, medium-sized and large-scale businesses that can disappear from Ukraine's economic map. Hundreds of thousands of new unemployed will be found on the street. As a result of the fulfilment of the European Union's requirements for the further introduction of a destructive pension reform in Ukraine, the implementation of a murderous medical reform, the requirement of legislation to eliminate the benefits of veterans, disabled persons, pensioners, Chernobyl, Afghans, children of war, and so on, the last constitutional rights of citizens to social protection by the State will be abolished. Europe's cynical demand is to raise prices for gas, water, electricity, housing and utilities, and this entails a sharp rise in prices for quality products and goods of primary necessity, with a sharp deterioration in the lives of Ukrainian citizens. Instead, the European Union requires Ukraine to open its borders for its production and, above all, for cheap use and genetically modified poison. At the same time, the so-called Euro of Charity does not impose any requirements on the Ukrainian-Oligarchic Authority for the introduction of European wages, European values, and pensions today. Europe is not going to cancel visas for Ukrainians. All of this, in their belief, is secondary and must be handled by Ukraine alone. Those who are so furiously aspiring for the EU Association today by deceiving people by hanging noodles on their ears are not saying that the conditions offered to Ukraine are those on which the European Union is working not with European countries, but with the countries of Asia, Africa and Latin America. I mean with third-world countries. In particular, the EU has imposed similar agreements on Algeria, Morocco, Jordan, Lebanon, Tunisia, Palestine, Chile, Mexico, South Africa, and so forth. For some reason, Eurointegrators deliberately keep their mouths shut. That the so-called Eastern Partnership strategy itself does not provide for any accession to the European Union, does not provide for equal rights for citizens of Ukraine and the countries of the European Union, but focuses solely on the self-preservation of the EU, which has faced a real threat to the social revolution. However, the government of Ukraine, its ministers, numerous court experts, advisers, regardless of the obvious things, continue in Dutch for all systems to praise the Association Agreement, sing edi, spread out before the European Commissioners, draw prudent prospects for domestic entrepreneurs. In which Sirc, gentlemen, do you lend your eyes by deceiving the people of Ukraine? But the fried rooster has already pecked where it usually pecks. At the last session of Kabminu Azarov, he finally publicly admitted that the course for the Euro-Association had already resulted in huge economic losses. That a quarter drop in exports to Russia is already a loss of tens of billions of dollars. And the further prospect of the loss of the mine market threatens the closure of hundreds of businesses, mass layoffs, sharp cuts in budget revenues and further declines in social standards. That this is turning Ukraine into a raw commodity of Europe. The government admitted that there is no money in the country even to pay pensions and salaries, and there is no place to take hundreds of billions of dollars to resupply the industry. And the European Union is not going to offer any compensation for the loss of the Customs Union markets and for the transition to EU standards. Strangely enough, Azarov was forced to lead the same government a few years later to admit that the introduction of the technical standards imposed by the European Union takes 10-15 years to implement and 100 or more billion dollars to do so. But is there time for Ukraine to save Ukraine’s home country by introducing the same requirements? No, there isn't. In fact, Mr. Azarov's statements described the government's helplessness and inability to analyse, plan, predict and take into account all the advantages and underwater stones of integration processes. Because it's an oligarchic government. After such statements, gentlemen of integration, in Europe they resign. Azarov, another important component of this statement, acknowledged that all the things we Communists have warned about are true and are real threats to the state and to every citizen of Ukraine. So once again, I'm drawing everyone's attention that today we really need to implement our anti-crisis program to get Ukraine out.
ParlaMint-UA_2013-11-19-m0.u13	Thank you. It's a strike. Vitaly Klitschko Faction Manager, please.
ParlaMint-UA_2013-11-19-m0.u14	Dear colleagues! This week, the Ukrainian authorities should say clearly, without intrigue and manipulation, and in order to show that it is aimed at Ukraine’s European integration. The Council of Ministers of the European countries has given us another chance to overcome the fear of Yanukovic and his environment and to make all the decisions necessary for the signing of the Association Agreement with the European Union. In recent times, the authorities have found many reasons not to sign the treaty. It's not like that. And the ones you need are incomprehensible. So the committees don't get together, then they get together, and they don't make decisions. It is the representatives of the Party of the Regions who talk about the integration of Ukraine and then talk about the risks of such integration. It's time to stop playing these games. Victor Janukovic must clearly state that he is in favor of signing the agreement or against it. Then the sneezing will stop in one direction or another in Parliament and beyond. Otherwise, it seems to me that the authorities are trying in any way to blend European integration into European integration, and to write down all the problems that have been created today by the non-professional leadership of the state and the government. We have already agreed that a budget cannot be drawn up without addressing the issue of Euro-integration. So there could be options? So show free will, show that you are serious about your course in Europe. And that's only going to be one option. Show the country a budget that is in line with what you say about European integration. As long as we can see the results of your improvement. Production dropped by 5 percent. It is estimated that 6 billion dollars have been exported abroad this year, 88 percent of them to Cyprus. That's why power doesn't want European integration. Because it will be impossible to stretch the country without penalty. Honorable radio audiences, TV setters, respected colleagues, fellow citizens, you too must say your word. I urge everyone not to be indifferent. On November 24th, at 12 o'clock, please come to Shevchenka Park in Kiev, show that the European path is not Yanukovic's wish, it's a requirement of Ukrainian society. Because Ukraine is Europe. Glory to Ukraine!
ParlaMint-UA_2013-11-19-m0.u15	Ladies and gentlemen, time for speeches is up. Last name? I'm asking for procedure, turn on Martovitch's microphone. Martinowski's microphone.
ParlaMint-UA_2013-11-19-m0.u16	Dear Vladimir Vasilovich, distinguished colleagues, you have now all seen that the session hall is being used for political piranha in general and hinders the work and the work of MPs. I'm asking you, Vladimir Vasilovich, to consider the issue of the technical security of our safe work. It's impossible to do that. I'll prepare an appropriate request and request for you to consider it. Thank you.
ParlaMint-UA_2013-11-19-m0.u17	Thank you. Honourable National Deputies, the draft Order (3633) on the early termination of the powers of Ukrainian National Deputy Mikhail Ivanovich Gerasimczuk is being considered. I give my word for the report to the head of the Committee on the Rules of Procedure, Mr. Volodymyr Wolodymyrovich. Is there a need to discuss this? None. Report and we'll vote.
ParlaMint-UA_2013-11-19-m0.u18	Dear Volodymyr Vasilovich, distinguished national deputies! In connection with the death of 7 November 2013, Ukrainian national deputy Gerasimczuk Mikhail Ivanovich, pursuant to article 81, part two, paragraph 5, of the Constitution of Ukraine, was introduced to the Supreme Council of Ukraine a draft decree of the Supreme Council of Ukraine on the permanent suspension of the powers of Ukrainian national deputy Gerasimczuk Mikhail Ivanovich (number 3633). Thank you for your attention.
ParlaMint-UA_2013-11-19-m0.u19	Thank you. Please prepare for the vote. I am voting on the draft Decree (registration number 3633) on the permanent suspension of the authority of the Ukrainian national deputy Mikhail Ivanovich Gerasimczuk for adoption as a basis and as a whole. People's deputies, please vote. [[10:38:37]] For 329 Against - 0, held - 0, unvoted - 79. Decision taken. The factions. Dear colleagues, I propose approval of the weekly schedule of plenary meetings on November 19-22. The weekly schedule is given to you. People's deputies would like to support this proposal. [[B in m in s a l in]] What are the calls not to vote? What, are we not going to consider the question? You don't want to take the schedule to the session! You don't want a week! What, we're gonna take the weatherman? I am voting on the schedule of meetings of the Supreme Council of Ukraine from 19 to 22 November 2013. People's deputies, please vote. [[10:40:14]] For-195 Against – 1, held – 53, not voted – 155. The decision is not taken. The opposition does not want to discuss the issue of treatment with Timoshenko. Voters need to know! Voters need to know! [[B in m in s a l in]] So I'm going to now bring up issues in a second reading that I don't have to agree with. And the treatment of the condemned will not be considered. [[B in m in s a l in]] Scream! Louder now! The draft Law (Registration No. 0040) on the Ratification of the Financial Agreement (Rehabilitation of Hydroelectric Power Plants) between Ukraine and the European Investment Bank is being considered. How will we consider this question? Please vote on the summary procedure. [[10:41:54]] For-174 Against 73, held – 7, did not vote -159. Decision taken. The first Deputy Minister of Energy and Coal Industry, Igor Mikolaiovich Popovic, is given for the report. Please. Here comes the question.
ParlaMint-UA_2013-11-19-m0.u20	Ladies and gentlemen, this is a draft Ukrainian law on the ratification of the Financial Agreement between Ukraine and the European Investment Bank. This is a project called the Rehabilitation of Hydroelectric Power Plants. The adoption of this law will allow for a 200 million-euro loan from the European Investment Bank to finance the reconstruction of the 22 hydro-agreements, the replacement of hydro-mechanical and electrical equipment at six Dniprovo power plants. The total cost of the project is 470 million euros. The project is planned for implementation: the European Bank for Reconstruction and Development costs are 200 million euros, the European Investment Bank costs are 200 million euros and its own funds are 70 million euros. According to the Financial Agreement with the European Investment Bank, a loan is granted on a 20 - year loan basis with a five - year maturity. The completion of the project is planned for 2017. The project will allow the safe operation of hydrotechnical facilities, increase the power of hydroelectric power plants by at least 10 per cent, and extend the operation of hydroelectric power plants by at least 40 years, while improving their environmental and technical safety, improve operational stability and reliability of electricity, and make better use of state water resources. The implementation of the project will also contribute to enhancing Ukraine's energy security, technical harmonization with the energy market in Europe. Please support the bill. Thank you for your attention.
ParlaMint-UA_2013-11-19-m0.u21	Thank you. Have a seat. I invite you to report to the deputy chairman of the committee, Yuri Romanovich Miroshnick.
ParlaMint-UA_2013-11-19-m0.u22	Thank you, Volodymyr Vasilovich! Dear voters, dear colleagues! The Committee on Foreign Affairs considered the draft Ukrainian Law on the Ratification of the Financial Agreement (The Project on the Rehabilitation of Hydroelectric Power Plants) between Ukraine and the European Investment Bank (Registration No. 0040 of 5 September 2013) and approved the decision: recommending the Supreme Council of Ukraine to adopt the bill and ratify the financial agreement. A financial agreement is aimed at ensuring the effective implementation of the Project "The Rehabilitation of Hydroelectric Power Plants", which foresees the execution of reconstruction works to be carried out at six hydroelectric plants: Kiev GES, Kanivska GES, Kremenchucka GES, Dniprožinska GES, Dniprovska GES-1, Dniprovska GES-2 on the annual Dnipro in Ukraine. The project is planned to reconstruct turbines, generators, replace electrical and hydromechanical equipment, and complete project 2017. The ratification of the financial agreement will enhance the efficiency of the management of Ukraine's energy system and the development of national hydropower. The adoption and implementation of the act will not require additional expenditure from the State Budget of Ukraine. The main scientific and expert administration of the Supreme Council of Ukraine apparatus and the Committee of the Supreme Council of Ukraine on the issue of a fuel-energy complex, nuclear policy and nuclear security believes that this agreement can be ratified. So, honourable colleagues, please support the Committee's decision in foreign affairs and ratify the financial agreement. Thank you for your attention.
ParlaMint-UA_2013-11-19-m0.u23	Thank you, sit down. Do you want to talk about it? Please sign up for factions. Please, the Fatherland faction, the Shulga People's Deputy passes the word to Mikola Tomenko.
ParlaMint-UA_2013-11-19-m0.u24	Please give me your word.
ParlaMint-UA_2013-11-19-m0.u25	Please, Mikola Tomenko, National Deputy.
ParlaMint-UA_2013-11-19-m0.u26	Dear colleagues! There is no doubt that we must ensure proper safety at our hydropower stations, which were mentioned, six hydropower stations, a reporter. However, Vladimir Vasilovich would like to draw attention to the fact that we can clearly understand how the funds will be used, and will they really be used in this direction? What do I mean? Not long ago in Canoe, the Ministry of Energy held a meeting to present a new project not only for the reconstruction of the Kanów hydroelectric power plant but for the construction of the Kanów hydroaccumulation power plant. Let me remind you, this project has been under discussion for 20 years. The population of the Church is quite critical of this because there is no compelling argument from an ecological point of view that this will not make normal functioning and environmental balance worse. But most importantly, when the minister presented the project, he referred to the fact that he would be financed by the European Investment Bank. And what's interesting is that the price of this project of the Kaniv Hydroaccumulation Power Plant is going to be 12 billion dollars. Let me remind you that this was the first such calculation to be made in 2007, and it was in the order of 5 billion. So the new government and the Ministry of Energy decided in a few years to increase the project's cost by just 7 billion dollars. And the question is, if it's a project without public discussion, without professionals, without the Ministry of Finance, because I understand that it doesn't support it, it's going to be run, it's clear that the state guarantees this money that will be received. So, Volodymyr Vasilovich, as a whole, if I were to support the project with the help and rehabilitation of an active hydroelectric power plant, I would ask you to give an order to the government, the appropriate ministries, to give us a reason for the expansion of the Kaniv hydroaccumulation power plant project, and obviously we need this project.
ParlaMint-UA_2013-11-19-m0.u27	Thank you, thank you. Party of regions, National Deputy Guzenko. Please.
ParlaMint-UA_2013-11-19-m0.u28	Constantine Husenko, Dnipropetrovsk district, Dniprodj yinsk Dear Vladimir Vasilovich, honourable deputies! The bill envisions the work of reconstruction at six hydroelectric stations, including the Dniprosyrin GES, which is 50 years old this year. During work, all hydroaggregates are physically worn out and are morally outdated. Actually, the cost of repairs is not enough. I'm going to point out that one hydroaggregate is worth 150 million dollars. So I would like to support this bill, as it is important for the country as a whole. Thank you.
ParlaMint-UA_2013-11-19-m0.u29	Thank you. The Vitalia Klitschka faction, the people's deputy, Rosenko.
ParlaMint-UA_2013-11-19-m0.u30	Please pass the word to Valentine.
ParlaMint-UA_2013-11-19-m0.u31	Please, National Deputy Valentin Nastavichenko. Turn on the microphone.
ParlaMint-UA_2013-11-19-m0.u32	The Vitalia Klitschka faction, Valentin Nastvaichenko. We believe that cooperation with the European Investment Bank, the European Bank for Reconstruction and Development and other financial institutions of the European Union is important and beneficial to Ukrainian citizens. We think that the government should stop being the center of Europe's resistance and start working in Europe, in fact, as long as it's long called for both the impact, and other opposition factions in Parliament, namely: transparent and responsible use of funds, directing them to priority needs, particularly those related to the rehabilitation of hydrostations and other power stations in our country. Then, the money that can be received and used in our economy should be accountable, and, including, we require a report from the Government on the use this year of money that has been received in terms of either financial assistance or credit agreements. Then we call for this agreement to be supported and the government to continue to be clearly guided by the principle of accountability for the use of money and their submission to Parliament. Thank you for your attention.
ParlaMint-UA_2013-11-19-m0.u33	Thank you. Freedom Union, the People's Deputy of Kyde.
ParlaMint-UA_2013-11-19-m0.u34	Please pass the word to Alexander Oxenthyovich Shevchenko.
ParlaMint-UA_2013-11-19-m0.u35	Please, National Deputy Shevchenko, Freedom Union.
ParlaMint-UA_2013-11-19-m0.u36	Alexander Shevchenko, faction of the All-Ukrainian Freedom Union. Ukraine’s government debt in connection with such huge loans has been close to $40 billion, all of which is essentially future generations. And the thing is, in Ukraine, enough electricity is being produced and the reconstruction of hydro-aggregates is actually going to increase by 10 percent electricity production, and I have to say that the electric motors that are pumping out water from the wetlands are spending more than these hydro-electric power plants in Ukraine. That's why Freedom doubted that it would be worth ratifying the treaty. But given that in section A, the technical description is that the goal is also to reduce the negative effects of hydroaggregates on the environment, because the project has to be completed in five, and we hope that attention will be given, first of all, to the ecological state of the Dniepra River, the rivers of its basin, and to improving the quality of drinking water. Because the situation in the Dnipro River Basin is extremely difficult, it is necessary to ensure the environment, the safe operation of day-to-day reservoirs, to restore and maintain the proper hydrological state of the rivers, to organize water management facilities on residential and utility facilities, and also to prevent groundwater pollution, etc. So Freedom supports the ratification of this agreement. Thank you.
ParlaMint-UA_2013-11-19-m0.u37	The discussion is over. They're all here. I'll put this question to the vote after the break. Two factions asked for a 30 - minute break. It's the Fatherland faction and the Strike faction. A break of 30 minutes is announced. Faction leaders, please enter the office of the Chief of Staff of the Supreme Council.
ParlaMint-UA_2013-11-19-m0.u38	Put the people's deputies in the hall. Dear National Deputies! I'm asking for your attention. I'm asking for your attention. At the Conciliation Council meeting with faction leaders, we agreed that on Thursday, this week, the first questions of the agenda would begin with the consideration of Euro-integration laws. Including the four laws that have been passed down to the fourth since today. I ask the committee heads to ensure that all these bills are prepared for consideration in the session room. And we'll continue our work today. Please, just a minute, huh? After the break, Arseny Yacenuk asks for three minutes. Please. He has the right, they take a break, make a statement. Three minutes, please.
ParlaMint-UA_2013-11-19-m0.u39	Dear Mr. Head! Honorable National Deputies of Ukraine! We're not just talking, we're working. That is why we believe that the first drafts to be voted on Thursday are three basic laws: the prosecutor's office, elections and treatment abroad, which allow for the first phase of the liberation of Yulia Timoshenko, should be considered successfully by the Ukrainian Parliament. I would like to place particular emphasis on the position of the Ukrainian opposition on the Procuratorial and Electoral Laws. In general, 804 amendments were made to the Procurator's Act, of which the Party of the Regions, without the support of its President, submitted 348 amendments to the presidential bill. We claim, as the opposition, that we call off all the amendments except for the 10 that the Venice Commission has defined. This is more than 250 amendments called for by the Ukrainian opposition. The other one. The same is true of the Electoral Law. The Party of Regions also does not support Viktor Yanukovic and amends the law introduced by the President of Ukraine. We agree with the committee's decision and are willing to vote in favour of that decision of the committee that was adopted yesterday and to vote in favour of the Public Prosecutor's Act and the Law on Elections of Ukrainian People's Deputies in the second reading and in general. Third. We're talking to the task force and, above all, to the members of the Working Group in drafting the Bill on Julia Timoshenko from the Party of Regions. For all the compromises we might have made. The drafting of a law prepared by members of the working group from opposition is completely and completely in line with the concept expressed by the Party of the Regions. We're willing to vote in favour of a bill that fits the concept of the Party of Regions. On Thursday, overcome your fears, come to Parliament, and in the first reading, we will vote on the third bill. And then Vilnius will be successful, and Ukraine will be a European state.
ParlaMint-UA_2013-11-19-m0.u40	Ladies and gentlemen, we have considered the Law (register 0040). So I'm voting on the draft Law (Registration No. 0040) on the ratification of the Financial Agreement between Ukraine and the European Investment Bank for adoption as a basis and as a whole. People's deputies, please vote. [[12:16:29]] For 321 Against - 0, held - 0, did not vote - 93. Decision taken. The factions. Region Party 140, Parenthood 66, Vitalia Klicka 32, Freedom 3, Company 24, non-fractional 28. I would like to vote on the schedule of meetings of the Supreme Council of Ukraine for November 19-22, 2013. People's deputies, please. On Thursdays, we passed four laws, taking into account the fact that the integration laws were passed on to Thursdays to be considered first. People's deputies, please vote. Please vote. [[12:17:44]] For 311 Against - 0, held - 0, did not vote - 105. Decision taken. The factions. It's being considered that we're going to consider the bills in the second reading. A draft Act (No2013a) is under consideration to amend some Ukrainian legislation on the protection of investor rights. Reported to the head of the Committee on Industrial and Investment Policy, Yuri Mikolayovich Voropeyev. Please.
ParlaMint-UA_2013-11-19-m0.u41	The President-in-chief, honourable national deputies, is submitting to your consideration the draft Ukrainian Law on Amendments to Certain Legislative Acts of Ukraine on the Protection of Investors' Rights (registration number 2013a), submitted by the Cabinet of Ministers of Ukraine and adopted on the basis of September 17, this year. The aim of the bill is to further improve the effectiveness of the protection of the rights of investors and shareholders of societies. 119 comments and amendments were introduced by the law’s legal entities, of which 55 are taken fully or editorially into account. The committee reviewed the proposals made by the people's deputies on October 22 and suggested that the Supreme Council of Ukraine adopt the bill as a law as a whole.
ParlaMint-UA_2013-11-19-m0.u42	Yeah, we're going after the repairs?
ParlaMint-UA_2013-11-19-m0.u43	Yeah.
ParlaMint-UA_2013-11-19-m0.u44	Come on. Amendment number one, People's Deputy Tears. Are you insisting? Are you insisting?
ParlaMint-UA_2013-11-19-m0.u45	No, it's not.
ParlaMint-UA_2013-11-19-m0.u46	No, it's not. Amendment number two, national deputy Kanovec. Are you insisting? Turn on the microphone.
ParlaMint-UA_2013-11-19-m0.u47	Oleg Kanovec, 126 constituency, Stryshtina, Jewish, "Citizen Position" party. The amendment refers to the name of the bill, since the bill itself does not mention an investor once, the bill refers solely to a shareholder of a company, its right to be protected from the performance of an executive structure in society. And that's why I think this amendment is relevant. And that's what the Chief Science and Technology Administration pointed to. And I ask the Hall to support this amendment.
ParlaMint-UA_2013-11-19-m0.u48	I'm betting on the vote of Amendment 2 of the Kanovec People's Deputies for support. People's deputies, please vote. [[12:20:53]] For 265 Against 0, holding back - 1, not voting - 147. Decision taken. The factions. Yes, Amendment 3, the Medyanic People's Deputy. I can't see. Don't insist. Amendment No. 4 of the Milky Way. Don't insist. Amendment number seven. National MP Petrenko. Turn on the microphone.
ParlaMint-UA_2013-11-19-m0.u49	Dear colleagues, this bill is actually very important and we voted in the first reading by a constitutional majority. This bill is designed to protect the interests of small shareholders, hundreds of thousands of our Ukrainians, who in the 1990s were fooled into so-called privatizations. And then they were constantly cheating on them without paying dividends, bankrupting businesses where they were shareholders. And in fact, this bill was a condition of the World Bank for us to receive adequate financial assistance. Sadly, though, before the second reading, the bill became an obstruction. Because the changes that have been made and taken into account by the committee are actually losing meaning and content to protect shareholders. Because now small shareholders cannot actually be representatives of the society, which is caused by the damage caused by the relevant officials of this society. So I do call on the deputies to consider and support each amendment that is rejected in this section very carefully. Including this amendment of mine. Thank you.
ParlaMint-UA_2013-11-19-m0.u50	Please, comment.
ParlaMint-UA_2013-11-19-m0.u51	The amendment of Petrenko 7 is taken into account in an editorial way. Please take a closer look at this. What are we talking about? The bill suggests that the rights of shareholders who own 10 percent or more of the shares will be protected. Mr. Petrenko suggests that this should be reduced to 5 percent of the shares. Yet, we should also consider that the less we set this threshold, the more we try to speculate on these standards and create problems for the shareholders themselves. So the committee considered it editorially, but reduced the threshold to 10 percent.
ParlaMint-UA_2013-11-19-m0.u52	Do you insist on voting? I'm betting on the vote of Amendment 7 of the People's Deputies of Petrenko for support. Please vote. [[12:23:46]] For-147 The decision is not taken. Against – 2, held – 19, did not vote – 240. The amendment remains with the committee's proposal. Amendment No. 8 of the People's Deputy Lapina. Please turn on the microphone.
ParlaMint-UA_2013-11-19-m0.u53	Xenya Lapina, "Fatherland" faction, Party "For Ukraine!"the city of Kiev. Dear colleagues, I would like to continue with my colleague Petrenko's opinion. In fact, the draft for the second reading was worsened, and the main idea of the owner’s derivative was cooled. In general, the bill now looks like a reform without reform. So my amendment is more radical, my amendment number 8, it's related to amendment number 12. I clearly and directly point out by these two amendments that a minority shareholder has the right to be a representative of society, not just to participate as a party to the process. What difference does it make? I'll explain. A party to the process today, any shareholder, can enter into the process as a party to the process, participate and express an opinion. In other words:
ParlaMint-UA_2013-11-19-m0.u54	Please, comment.
ParlaMint-UA_2013-11-19-m0.u55	This amendment, as well as many other amendments made by this national MP, are fundamental, are very important, and I ask that you take them very seriously. What's the matter? The National MP insists that the shareholder does not appear to be a party to the case by filing such an action against the shareholder. He's a member of a stockholder's company, and he's the one who's the one who's the one who's the one who's the one who's the one who's the one who's the one who's the one who's the one who's the However, if we take civil law, the Act on Shareholder Society, the Act on Economic Society and so on, we know that by law and by law the defendants have every right to change such a representative once. Complementing the claim is two. Disposal of a full suit, Papers and so on. I mean, it's full.
ParlaMint-UA_2013-11-19-m0.u56	Finish up.
ParlaMint-UA_2013-11-19-m0.u57	He has every opportunity to leave the shareholder’s rights as a representative to defend his claim. So we insist that the shareholder has, in this case, the right side of the case. And no such correction can be accepted.
ParlaMint-UA_2013-11-19-m0.u58	Puts the vote on? I'm betting on the vote of Amendment No. 8 of the People's Deputies of Llapina for support. Please vote. [[12:27:15]] For-143 Against – 1, held – 20, did not vote – 245. The decision is not taken. The factions. Amendment 10 People's Deputy Omelchenko. Don't insist. Amendment 12, People's Deputy Lapina. Turn on the microphone.
ParlaMint-UA_2013-11-19-m0.u59	Thank you. This amendment is related to the previous amendment, so I want to continue our discussion. After the committee meeting, I consulted with the Supreme Economic Court, whether this problem was actually present, which, in fact, would be blocked by the representative. No, actually, no. The procedural rules are both prescribed in this law, and the existing ones allow all representatives to be fully informed at the proper time to participate in the process and in no way to block the shareholder's right manager, who is acting as a representative, is actually not going to be able to. And the whole question is, are we going to take this step-innovation in our legal field, are we not going? If we go for this kind of innovation, it's reform. If we do not go, there is no reform. That is the key problem for today. So I'm asking you to support the amendment.
ParlaMint-UA_2013-11-19-m0.u60	Can I have your comments, please?
ParlaMint-UA_2013-11-19-m0.u61	The party on the case, yes, it has much more rights than the representative of a party. So the shareholder, as a party to this case, will have more rights and will be more secure. If we do not grant him these rights, his rights will be violated and can always be narrowed down by the management, the official of the shareholders’ society. You can't accept that.
ParlaMint-UA_2013-11-19-m0.u62	I'm betting on the vote of amendment 12, People's Deputy Lapina. In support, please vote. [[12:29:37]] For-144 Against – 1, held – 20, did not vote – 244. The decision is not taken. Amendment 18, Voropeyev. Don't insist. Amendment 19, National Deputy Petrenko. Turn on the microphone.
ParlaMint-UA_2013-11-19-m0.u63	Dear colleagues! Petrenko, the Fatherland faction. I want to continue the discussion that Mrs. Leipzig started. Indeed, this law is designed to protect small shareholders. And this amendment predicted that all decisions, procedural documents, which are taken to compensate officials for damages on behalf of those shareholders, are publicized. I want to explain that, in fact, our individuals, our citizens, who are small shareholders, have neither legal services nor lawyers, nor the funds that would allow such legal associations to be involved in these matters. So they should be able to track the case through the relevant website and the relevant register of court decisions. But somehow the committee rejected the amendment. Although both the courts and the Supreme Court of the Economy have argued that this is a very constructive amendment. And in general, if we want to adopt this law with the philosophy of protecting our citizens, our small shareholders, we need to consider this kind of amendment. Otherwise this law is really an obstruction, it won't work. Thank you.
ParlaMint-UA_2013-11-19-m0.u64	Comments, please.
ParlaMint-UA_2013-11-19-m0.u65	According to current legislation, even without this bill, all the decisions of the courts that are being considered are already available on the websites of the Supreme Court of Commerce this time. All the lawsuits that have been filed before the courts are now. Nothing changes here. So expanding it with additional documents, and doing it the other way, that means increasing the budget costs for all of this work. This is neither possible nor rational.
ParlaMint-UA_2013-11-19-m0.u66	I'm betting on an amendment to the 19th National MP, support. Please. [[12:32:19]] For-152. Against 0, held – 23, not a vote – 233. The decision is not taken. Ladies and gentlemen, the deputy has approached, asking to return to the amendment of 13. I beg you, until the amendment of the 13th People's Deputy of Agaphonov. Partially counted. Turn on the Agaphon microphone.
ParlaMint-UA_2013-11-19-m0.u67	Agaphon's Natalia, Vitaly Call's Faction. I'd like to say that I want to say about Amendment 20, which is next.
ParlaMint-UA_2013-11-19-m0.u68	No, I'm asking for your 13th opinion.
ParlaMint-UA_2013-11-19-m0.u69	We can't support the 13th. I mean, there's no position. I'll take 20.
ParlaMint-UA_2013-11-19-m0.u70	Raise your hand. Turn on the microphone of the national MP. Grinschweld. Yes, Hirschfeld.
ParlaMint-UA_2013-11-19-m0.u71	Vladimir Vasilevich, does not understand how this amendment is partially taken into account in the text?
ParlaMint-UA_2013-11-19-m0.u72	Yes, your offer?
ParlaMint-UA_2013-11-19-m0.u73	13 Amendments, as partially counted? Can you give me the exact comments, how does it count in part?
ParlaMint-UA_2013-11-19-m0.u74	Your comments, please.
ParlaMint-UA_2013-11-19-m0.u75	This article states that such rights are vested in persons who are legally entitled to protect and. Right. protected by law by the interests of others. In the second article of this law these are. They're being deciphered, they're shareholders and prosecutors, that's all. Shareholders who own 10 percent or more of the shares.
ParlaMint-UA_2013-11-19-m0.u76	All of it. You got it? I beg of you, Amendment No. 20 of the Agaphonov People's Deputies. Please.
ParlaMint-UA_2013-11-19-m0.u77	Natalia Agaphonova, Vitalia Klitschka Faction. Dear colleagues, I'd like to address you with the following. This law, designed for citizens, for legal persons, and not just for representatives of the judiciary. So, given this, I would like to support my colleague from the Fatherland faction, who also expressed this position, that in the cases of damages to the household society by his official person, all this data on the trial, all the procedural documents, they should be published by the Master Court in the Single State Register of Judgments on the official web portal of the Ukrainian judiciary. We have to unify all processes and in accordance with these rules of harmonization, all of these cases should not be distributed through the web portals of different courts. So there's a single government register that's why it's designed, and that's why all the citizens, the legal persons, the officials who are involved.
ParlaMint-UA_2013-11-19-m0.u78	Voting or are you commenting? Please.
ParlaMint-UA_2013-11-19-m0.u79	We have just voted on the same amendment to Petrenko, and there are other amendments made by other national deputies. I was commenting on this. I suggest we put it all to the vote and that's it.
ParlaMint-UA_2013-11-19-m0.u80	I'm betting on the vote of Amendment 20 of Agafone for support. Please vote. [[12:36:24]] For a hundred and Against 0, held – 21, not voted – 233. The decision is not taken. Amendment 21. People's MP Solvar. Don't insist. Don't you insist? Amendment number 22. National Deputy Corge. Don't insist. Amendment 23, Lapina. Turn on the microphone.
ParlaMint-UA_2013-11-19-m0.u81	Thank you, fellows of honor! I point out that I don't just want to say for this amendment, but I want to point out that actually completely out of the text is article 48, which, by the way, was proposed by your government. And it was suggested that this was a key question — whether shareholders or members of minority societies would be able to find out what was wrong with society. And as a result, by throwing this article out completely, we are saying that they simply will never know that the injury of society has been established and that as a result they have the right to a derivative lawsuit. So this is another step to deprive them of their ability to actually implement the right to a derivative lawsuit. And that's actually what our amendments protect in this case your government's position, and you're rejecting it yourself.
ParlaMint-UA_2013-11-19-m0.u82	I'm betting on the vote of Amendment 23, People's Deputy Lapina, for support. Please vote. [[12:38:21]] For a hundred and Against 0, held – 24, not voted – 241. The decision is not taken. Amendment 24 Agafone. Don't insist. 25 amendment, People's Deputy Sold. Turn on the microphone.
ParlaMint-UA_2013-11-19-m0.u83	Dear Vladimir Vasilovich! Dear colleagues! I ask first of all for a number of amendments to confirm. Because at the beginning and in the course of your consideration of the amendments, you did not have the opportunity to do so. Therefore, after considering this amendment, I ask that a number of amendments be made for confirmation. Now with regard to Amendment 25.
ParlaMint-UA_2013-11-19-m0.u84	Let's look at the revisions and then put them on confirmation.
ParlaMint-UA_2013-11-19-m0.u85	So we don't forget, so we don't forget. Regarding the 25 amendments, I suggest that. This bill really needed and planned to protect a small minority shareholder. At the end of the project, it's not going to happen. Similarly, this article provides that only legal persons will be posted on the site without the name of the subject, the shareholders’ association with which the lawsuit is open. And so, no simple, ordinary person will be able to understand and get information about what is being considered. And that's how we protect our own rights. So I ask you to support this amendment and the committee head and colleagues. Thank you.
ParlaMint-UA_2013-11-19-m0.u86	Please, comment.
ParlaMint-UA_2013-11-19-m0.u87	You didn't listen to me. I'm saying again and again, according to an active legislation that has not been amended, all of the actions are already on the website of the Single State Register. All decisions of the courts, both intermediate and final, are also made there. This information is sufficient to understand what is going on and to make the necessary decision. All the suggestions that have been made to this effect, including your proposal, are an extension of the information that should be posted there. There's no need for her.
ParlaMint-UA_2013-11-19-m0.u88	I bet on the vote amendment number 25 of the People's Deputies Sold for support. Please vote. [[12:40:55]] For-146 Against 0, holding back - 26, not voting - 235. The decision is not taken. Amendment number 26, People's Deputy Sold.
ParlaMint-UA_2013-11-19-m0.u89	I ask you to put this amendment to the vote. Why? Because, first of all, the previous amendments show that, even though today there is information like this, we're still putting into the project, we're writing out procedures for publishing on the judiciary website. If it worked, you wouldn't have had to do it. But it's necessary. The other part is in a different edition. My amendment allows minority shareholders to engage and participate in the protection of their rights not only 20 days after the opening of the case, but at any stage when they know that their rights are violated and will be able to defend themselves in court. So I ask everyone to support the amendment and allow a small enterprise owner to protect himself not only for 20 days. Thank you.
ParlaMint-UA_2013-11-19-m0.u90	I'm betting on the vote on amendment 26 (national sales MP) to support. Please vote. [[12:42:24]] For-144 Against 0, holding – 22, not voting – 241. The decision is not taken. Amendment 27, People’s Deputy Lapina. Please turn on the microphone.
ParlaMint-UA_2013-11-19-m0.u91	Xenya Lapina, "Fatherland" faction, Party "For Ukraine!"the city of Kiev. Ladies and gentlemen, I note that our amendments have actually come about by accident. The amount of information that even today has, I'm not saying that it's still not published enough, but it's supposed to be published in registers, not enough to actually have minority shareholders take advantage of their rights if we give it to them at all. So we're offering to expand this information, make it fixed so it can't be manipulated. So that's why this whole law came into existence, which is not enough money available today. So I'm asking you to support my amendment and point out that without this informational ingredient, the law is just as cooled off.
ParlaMint-UA_2013-11-19-m0.u92	I'm betting on the vote for amendment 27 of the People's Deputies of Laupina. Please vote in favour. [[12:43:55]] For-146 Against 0, held – 19, not a vote – 245. The decision is not taken. National MP Omelchenko insist? No, it's not. People's MP Lapina, 31st Amendment. Turn on the microphone.
ParlaMint-UA_2013-11-19-m0.u93	In fact, does this continue our theoretical discussion about this, so what exactly is the representative or the party? In fact, it's really a theoretical discussion. But I think it's already been done. So the government came up with a proposal to make a derivative lawsuit. In fact, in my opinion, today, especially in the current conditions of Ukraine, the side of the process has one big flaw: it may be denied. She may be denied participation. And the representative has one great advantage in our Ukrainian conditions: they can't refuse him. He's in the process at any moment. So actually, I insist on my amendments, which would be fixed in this case by a minority shareholder as a representative. Thank you.
ParlaMint-UA_2013-11-19-m0.u94	Please, comment.
ParlaMint-UA_2013-11-19-m0.u95	The representative represents a person. What kind of person would be in this process if he wasn't a plaintiff? It's a lawsuit. He cannot represent a mythical person. I fully agree that the shareholder, when suing the official of the shareholder association, and if he wins this case, he should not receive anything from it. You have to get company. And that's what the committee prescribed in the law. But he's got to be on the side of the case, otherwise he's getting the whole process going. There's no plaintiff, there's a defendant and there's a mythical representative whose rights can disappear at any moment. You can't accept that.
ParlaMint-UA_2013-11-19-m0.u96	I'm betting on the vote of Amendment 31, People's Deputy Lapina, for support. Please vote. [[12:46:32]] For-140. The decision is not taken. Against 0, holding back, 15, not voting, 256. Amendment 34, national MP Omelchenko, is under consideration. Don't insist. Amendment 37, Omelchenka. Don't insist. Amendment 41, Omelchenka. Don't insist. Next. Amendment 44, People's Deputy Lapina. Don't insist. Amendment number 48, Voropeyev. Don't insist. 51 amendment, People's MP Sphenov. Don't insist. Let's move on. Amendment number 54, Oxana People's Deputy Sold. Don't insist. 55th People's Deputies. Are you insisting? Turn on the microphone.
ParlaMint-UA_2013-11-19-m0.u97	Lapina, Fatherland faction, Party for Ukraine!"the city of Kiev. We are continuing our discussion with a representative of whom and what. Clearly, the representative, in this case a legal representative, is totally unmistakable, she is suffering from only one type of lawsuit, and that is to say, compensation for damages. So at the beginning, before this damages claim was made, a loss was already established, and the damage was deliberately done. It is only then that there is a right and a possibility to file a lawsuit based on a member of such association as a member of the association, to compensate the harm done to the company. I am grateful to the committee that at least one of them did not corrupt, or leave, that the damage is still being done to society, not to a particular person. But it's actually completely broken.
ParlaMint-UA_2013-11-19-m0.u98	I'm betting on an amendment to the 55th People's Deputies of Lapina for support. Please vote. [[12:49:14]] For-146 Against - 1, held - 17, not voted - 248. The decision is not taken. Amendment 62, People's Deputy Sold. Don't insist. 63rd National MP Lapin. Turn on the microphone.
ParlaMint-UA_2013-11-19-m0.u99	Thank you. I just wanted to agree that, actually, during the committee meeting, it seemed that no one had identified the fact that there was only one type of lawsuit -- compensation. And this is where all the misunderstandings of what, in this case, the form of the suit is possible when a member of the association is his representative.
ParlaMint-UA_2013-11-19-m0.u100	I would like to vote on amendment 63 of the People's Deputies of Lapina for support. Please vote. [[12:50:21]] For-144 Amendment 64. I'm asking for your attention! National Deputy Firemark. Don't insist. 65th National MP Medyanic. Don't insist. 66, Omelchenka. Don't insist. 67, National Deputy Petrenko. Please.
ParlaMint-UA_2013-11-19-m0.u101	Paul Petrenko, "Fatherland" faction. Dear community, I want to make it clear that the law that was in the first edition really made the first progress to protect hundreds of thousands of our citizens from the squabble that they actually owned in enterprises where they actually owned small parts. Regrettably, in connection with the amendments that have been made by our majority representatives, this progress has actually been reversed. So in this context, I can say that the "Paternity" faction, seeing that all the amendments made by the opposition are not taken into account, will not support this bill as a whole. We suggest that it be re-readed in order for the committee to work it again and, nevertheless, we have left in this law the positions that our Ukrainians need, the very small shareholders who want to have at least some minimal mechanism to protect their property rights. And what they're getting is, in fact, on the basis of the payment of dividends from large enterprises. That's why there's still a proposal to send him to redraft the bill. Thank you.
ParlaMint-UA_2013-11-19-m0.u102	Put an amendment to the vote to support? A vote is taken on amendment 67 of the People’s Deputies of Petrenko for support. Please vote. [[12:52:17]] For-140. Against 0, held – 17, not a vote – 255. The decision is not taken. Amendment 68. People's deputy of Leapina. Please.
ParlaMint-UA_2013-11-19-m0.u103	Xenya Lapina, "Fatherland" faction, Party "For Ukraine!"the city of Kiev. Dear colleagues, I will not continue to insist on my amendments, but not because we don't support them, but because I understand that if most people had their own vision of this process. But I would like to emphasize, my dear colleagues, that we consider this to be a de facto destruction of the idea of a derivative suit. We don't think there's enough information rights in this case. That is why we will not support this bill as a whole. We offer it for re-reading, and only then will it have a chance to be called reform. Otherwise, dear colleagues, this is not a reform, nor do you think that the experts of the World Bank will see this substitution of ideas. We've already seen it and we've noticed it. So we ask you, after all, to approach this issue in a balanced way, for the sake of Ukraine, not for the sake of it.
ParlaMint-UA_2013-11-19-m0.u104	Thank you. Amendment 73. National deputy Herzoff, isn't he insisting? Amendment 76, don't you think? 78th National MP Solvar, does not insist. 83rd, Emelchenka, don't insist. 87th National MP Lapin, no insistence. Next up: the 90th, the National Deputy of Herzov, does not insist. The 91st National MP, Lapin, doesn't insist. 92nd, Omelchenka, doesn't insist. 93rd National Deputy Agafone, turn on the microphone.
ParlaMint-UA_2013-11-19-m0.u105	Natalia Agaphonova, Vitalia Klitschka Faction. Dear colleagues! I want to talk to you again, because we as the law-makers should not create colossals, so in our standards we have to define the most clearly the concept of "comprehensible apparatus." And for example, my amendment refers to this: we have the definition of officials in legislation and it is not only in the Code of Lords but in other acts. Again, this bill amends the Law on Economic Society, which defines who are the official persons of society. Again, let's see, this law basically regulates economic relations. These relationships are regulated by the Master Code in their basic positions. So let's refer to. Let's make this a blank rule and refer to the Code of Masters in determining the officers.
ParlaMint-UA_2013-11-19-m0.u106	Can I have your comments, please?
ParlaMint-UA_2013-11-19-m0.u107	I would like to draw your attention to the fact that the concept of the official of the association has been since 1991, if I am not mistaken, in the Special Law on Household Associations. It was there, it was there, and it should be there, because it's a special law, so it regulates the activities of farming societies. The master code of Ukraine is an arbitrary law that does not govern. Not only regulates activities, but also the internal activities of farm societies. Just one chapter regulates that. The Committee therefore considers that such a definition should be the same in a special law and not a new one; it remained unchanged as it had been before.
ParlaMint-UA_2013-11-19-m0.u108	I'm betting on the vote of Amendment 93, People's Deputy Agafonov for support. Please vote. [[12:57:27]] For 135 Against – 0 held – 23 did not vote – 251. The decision is not taken. Amendment 98, People's Deputy Agaphonov. Don't insist. 99th, Voropeyev. Don't insist. 103rd National MP Lapin. Don't insist. 109th, Omelchenko. Don't insist. 110th People's Deputy Tears. Please turn on the microphone.
ParlaMint-UA_2013-11-19-m0.u109	Dear National Deputies! The point of my amendment is that the officials of the shareholders’ associations are fully responsible for the damage they have caused by their actions or omissions when their guilt is fully proved. Please vote. Thank you.
ParlaMint-UA_2013-11-19-m0.u110	I'm betting on the vote for Amendment 110, National Deputy Tears. Please vote. [[12:58:48]] For-136 Against - 1, held - 23, not a vote - 250. The decision is not taken. Amendment 113, by Firemark, is under consideration. Don't insist. National MP Medjanik, 117th Amendment. Don't insist. National Deputy Omelchenko, 118th Amendment. Don't insist. 119th People's Deputies, Gerzhov. Don't insist. You and I have considered the amendments. Someone's got this. Oksana Prodan, turn on the microphone, please.
ParlaMint-UA_2013-11-19-m0.u111	Dear Vladimir Vasilovich, I ask for confirmation of Amendment 6. This is an amendment that provides that not only shareholders, not only owners, shareholders, but any person who is given the right under the law to defend the rights and legally protected interests of others, may be referred to the Court of Justice. This will lead to, I'm paying attention to the members of the faction of the party of the region, to the adoption of such a rule, that on any account of the lawyers, the representatives will be able to appeal to the court and not allow the shareholders to work at all, because they will only deal with the case. Thank you.
ParlaMint-UA_2013-11-19-m0.u112	Please, Yuri Mikolaiovich.
ParlaMint-UA_2013-11-19-m0.u113	In this case, I'd like to ask you.
ParlaMint-UA_2013-11-19-m0.u114	May I have your attention, Your Honor?
ParlaMint-UA_2013-11-19-m0.u115	And who will the prosecutor be on this matter if he represents the interests of shareholders or associations? He's not a stockholder, and you're getting him out of there, you're getting him out of there. The other one. And who are these societies, those individuals who get rights by stock as a gift management, asset management and so on, you throw them out, you get it? You narrow down the number of people who have these rights, it's wrong.
ParlaMint-UA_2013-11-19-m0.u116	Ladies and gentlemen, I ask you to prepare yourself for the decision. Please take your seats. Please take your seats. [[B in m in s a l in]] Dear people's deputies, I say again. Mr. Novinsky, please take your place, because I will put the law to the vote. Ladies and gentlemen, I'm voting on the committee's proposal. [[B in m in s a l in]] Do you still have confirmation?
ParlaMint-UA_2013-11-19-m0.u117	Oh, I see. I'm sorry. Prepared? We're getting ready. Ladies and gentlemen, I place a 6th amendment of the People's Deputies of Voropeyev in support of this amendment. People's deputies, please vote. [[13:02:57]] For 218. Against 108, abstained - 3, not voted - 83. The decision is not taken. Please, the People's Deputy Sold.
ParlaMint-UA_2013-11-19-m0.u118	I thank the National Deputies very much and I pay your attention, my fellow Members of State. The same norm that allows any representative, shareholder and not only shareholder to be brought to justice, exists in Amendment No. 11 as to what the committee head has said. First, the prosecutor's office, according to the President's project, is denied the right of oversight, and she will not speak on behalf of the shareholders. This is the first time. Secondly, we need to remember with you the property rights that you are now replacing, extending the general mandate of any person to refer to a court of law for a shareholding association. So I'm asking you to put this amendment right now for confirmation and not vote for it. 11th Amendment. Thank you.
ParlaMint-UA_2013-11-19-m0.u119	Please.
ParlaMint-UA_2013-11-19-m0.u120	I want to remind you all that. [[B in m in s a l in]] Wait, I'm talking about the amendment. [[B in m in s a l in]] A. I'm sorry. [[Applause]] All of you, when you come here, give up your rights to the stock and hand them over to someone you trust. Yes, all of you, by refusing to do so, leave the right to file such claims. That's it. All those persons who, either by trust or by trust agreement, have been granted share rights, they will now be. Unrepentant, for you have rejected the previous provision, and you reject it. Here's the problem. Do you need it or don't you need it? I don't think so. And you don't need it, and nobody needs it. That's bullshit.
ParlaMint-UA_2013-11-19-m0.u121	Do you understand, Your Honor? Got it. Oksana Prodan asks 11 fixes to set. the People's Deputies of Voropeyeva place in support of this amendment. Yeah? And vote, you say?
ParlaMint-UA_2013-11-19-m0.u122	Vote.
ParlaMint-UA_2013-11-19-m0.u123	I support 11 amendments. People's deputies, please vote. [[13:05:57]] For 214 Against - 106, held - 5, not voted - 86. The decision is not taken. Please, the People's Deputy Sold.
ParlaMint-UA_2013-11-19-m0.u124	Thank you, Vladimir Vasilovich. Thank you, dear colleagues. I'm asking for confirmation of amendment 77 by MP Sphenov. It makes it possible, it obliges directors and business managers to answer only for their obligation to do something even without their guilt. I'm not talking about the court's decision anymore. I understand and believe that managers should be responsible for their actions. But not only when they simply exist but they could not do anything. So I'm asking 77 to make an amendment for confirmation. Thank you.
ParlaMint-UA_2013-11-19-m0.u125	Please comment on the comet.
ParlaMint-UA_2013-11-19-m0.u126	I would like to draw your attention to the principle of this amendment. They list the reasons, the cases where the shareholder, and now only the shareholder, no one else, has the right to file a lawsuit. If this amendment is not taken into account, on any basis a claim may be lodged. For example, a loan agreement was concluded. They got a loan. Let's go to court, appeal a credit agreement, break it all. For example, a contract was made for the supply of goods to any company there, including abroad. Let's go to the SOT. The contract's been declared invalid. This is so large a circle that it will be possible to block the entire enterprise and its work. And on this, making money, on these claims, on their heels, on these claims. That's very, very dangerous.
ParlaMint-UA_2013-11-19-m0.u127	I'm asking for the attention of the people's deputies. I'm betting on the vote of Amendment 77 of the People's Deputies of Sphenov for confirmation. People's deputies, please vote. [[13:08:29]] For 215 Against 98, held – 5, not voted – 93. The decision is not taken. Please, the People's Deputy Sold.
ParlaMint-UA_2013-11-19-m0.u128	Dear Vladimir Vasilovich! Once again, I thank all the national deputies who did not support the previous amendments. And I want to put two amendments on confirmation at the same time. The last changes I ask for confirmation. This is 104 and 108 amendments made by members of the Firemark and the Medici. These are the same amendments that make shareholders’ directors liable for damages that are not dependent on their activities, for which they have no fault, and for which there is no court decision. All the other cases, they're in the law, they're spelled out correctly. But when a person has no opportunity to do what seems necessary, he cannot be held accountable without fault. I ask 104 and 108 amendments for confirmation. Thank you.
ParlaMint-UA_2013-11-19-m0.u129	Please, comment. 104 amendment, please.
ParlaMint-UA_2013-11-19-m0.u130	After the previous vote, this law is already dangerous to any enterprise. It creates additional conditions for the raiding of such enterprises, for the joint owner, and for blocking the business itself. He can't be voted anymore. 104 and the second amendment are also about this. So I call on all my comrades not to vote in favour of this bill in this way.
ParlaMint-UA_2013-11-19-m0.u131	Amendment 144. Honorable National MPs. 104 I'm betting on confirmation. People's deputies, please vote. [[1:10:42]] For 213 Against 85, holding four, not voting 107. The decision is not taken. I now put to the vote the amendment of 108 of the Medal’s national MP for confirmation. People's deputies, please vote. [[13:11:16]] For 213 Against 99, held - 4, not voted - 94. The decision is not taken. May I have your attention, please? Prepare for the vote, I'll put to the vote an offer to return the law to the second reading. Do you understand? I beg of you, National Deputy Adam Martinyuk.
ParlaMint-UA_2013-11-19-m0.u132	Thank you. Martinyuk, the Communist faction. Vladimir Vasilovich, it would be more logical to make a proposal to the committee first, as the committee suggests that it be accepted in a second reading. If we don't get the support of the committee's proposals, then your proposal to return it to read again will be more logical.
ParlaMint-UA_2013-11-19-m0.u133	Right? I bet the vote will be passed by the Act (number 2013a), the draft Act amending certain Ukrainian legislation on investor rights (second reading). People's deputies, please vote. [[13:13:15]] For-53 Against 76, held – 65, not a vote – 213. The decision is not taken. So I'm going to make a second proposal, and I'm going to turn this bill back into a second reading. Yeah? I'm betting on the vote on this proposal. People's deputies, please vote. For the second reading again. [[13:14:00]] For 262 Against - 3, held - 21, did not vote - 121. Decision taken. The factions. Dear National Deputies, the Committee of Martinenko Mikoli Volodymyrovich has asked for a draft law amending the Ukrainian Mining Act on coal or peat briquettes (number 2843) to be transferred to Thursday. I'm asking the people's deputy Martinenko. Where? You don't? So you don't have to shout, you don't have committee material. The committee's asking to look into it. What's the point in yelling? That was the decision we made. Ladies and gentlemen, let's move on to the first reading of draft laws. And for consideration: draft Law No. 2700 banning financial pyramids in Ukraine. How will we view it? Short-term procedure, please vote on who supports the shortened procedure. [[13:16:34]] For 168 Against 67, held – 9, did not vote – 167. Decision taken. Reported to the head of the National Commission, which regulates markets, financial services for Boris Josephovich Vizorov, and then the head of the committee. Two minutes, please.
ParlaMint-UA_2013-11-19-m0.u134	Dear Vladimir Vasilovich! Dear National Deputies! A draft of the Ukrainian Law on the Prohibition of Financial Pyramids in Ukraine, developed by the National Commission, which regulates public markets, financial services for government tasks. The bill was approved by the Cabinet of Ministers of Ukraine, the Committee of the Supreme Council of Ukraine on Finance and Banking, recommended for adoption. Financial pyramids are a social and dangerous phenomenon, and their activities are primarily affected by socio-unprotected populations. Thus, financial pyramids are banned in the developed world, and their creation is criminalized and punishable by a prolonged term of imprisonment. Unfortunately, current Ukrainian legislation does not define the concept of a "financial pyramid" and does not allow them to be effectively opposed to their activities. In order to protect our citizens from this fraud, it is necessary to legally ban and criminalize financial pyramids in Ukraine. The bill proposes: firstly, to define a financial pyramid, secondly, to prohibit the deliberate creation of financial pyramids and their advertising, thirdly, to impose criminal responsibility for the inclusion of funds through pyramids, to propose participation in them and to deliberately create conditions for their activities. The bill takes into account the world’s experience in combating financial pyramids, the specificities of civil and criminal legislation in Ukraine, and the interests of society regarding the prohibition of financial pyramids. The expected results of the bill are the cessation of financial pyramids in Ukraine, the disappearance of their advertising and the strengthening of the protection of property rights of Ukrainian citizens. Please support the bill. Thank you for your attention.
ParlaMint-UA_2013-11-19-m0.u135	Sit down, thank you. I invite you to report to the head of the Committee on Finance and Banking, Alexander Mikolayovich Rizenkova.
ParlaMint-UA_2013-11-19-m0.u136	Dear Head, the country's distinguished deputies of Ukraine! On June 18, 2013, the Committee on Finance and Banking considered at its meeting a draft of the Ukrainian Law on the Prohibition of Financial Pyramids in Ukraine (register No. 2700), submitted by the Cabinet of Ministers of Ukraine. The project proposes to define the content by using the term "financial pyramid" and to prohibit the deliberate creation of the financial pyramid by offering to participate in it or by involving financial assets by means of a financial pyramid. In addition, the relevant amendments are made to the Ukrainian Criminal Code, the Ukrainian Advertising and Consumer Rights Act. In recent times, fraud has increased in Ukraine through financial pyramids. The Ministry of Internal Affairs has accounted for about a hundred large financial pyramids in the Ukrainian Internet. However, current legislation does not adequately protect citizens from such agreements, particularly in this case the Consumer Rights Act cannot be applied. In practice, financial pyramids are carried out without the registration of a legal person or a physical entrepreneur. Financials, too. natural persons who contribute their money to the financial pyramid cannot be considered consumers in the sense used in the above-mentioned Ukrainian law. We can't let that happen. In order to prohibit the operation of financial pyramids in Ukraine and to carry out the orders of the Prime Minister of Ukraine, Nazcomfinservices was developed and a draft Ukrainian Law on the Prohibition of Financial Pyramids in Ukraine was drafted. The main scientific and expert office of the Supreme Council of Ukraine concludes by commenting on the bill and notes that the first reading of the bill could be based on the following comments and suggestions. The Ministry of Finance of Ukraine, in its expert opinion, notes support for the bill. It should be noted that a number of suggestions and comments were made at the committee’s meeting to discuss the bill, which are dealt with by a national commission that makes state regulation in the field.
ParlaMint-UA_2013-11-19-m0.u137	Let me finish.
ParlaMint-UA_2013-11-19-m0.u138	and will be taken into account in the second reading. The committee proposes to recommend to the Supreme Council of Ukraine the adoption of a draft Ukrainian Law on the Prohibition of Financial Pyramids in Ukraine, submitted by the Cabinet of Ministers of Ukraine. And to finalize the draft bill, taking into account the comments and suggestions of the legislators, and to present it for consideration by the Supreme Council of Ukraine in its second reading. Thank you for your attention. Please be supportive.
ParlaMint-UA_2013-11-19-m0.u139	Thank you. Please sign up for the factions. Please. Please, Peace People's Deputy, Freedom Union.
ParlaMint-UA_2013-11-19-m0.u140	Dear Vladimir Vasilovich, please pass on the word to Alexia Kaydi.
ParlaMint-UA_2013-11-19-m0.u141	Please, Alexei Kyde.
ParlaMint-UA_2013-11-19-m0.u142	Dear fellow MPs, recently in Ukraine, have actually increased the incidence of fraud by using financial pyramids. However, existing legislation does not adequately protect citizens from such agreements. In particular, the Ukrainian Consumer Rights Act cannot be applied to the appropriate case. So the adoption of this bill is very relevant. The bill proposes to define the meaning of the term 'financial pyramid', which has not been allowed until now, and to prohibit the deliberate creation of conditions for a financial pyramid, an invitation to participate in it or to participate in it, and the maintenance of financial assets through financial pyramids. In addition, the relevant amendments are made to the Criminal Code of Ukraine, the laws of Ukraine on advertising and consumer rights. However, the proposed version of the bill is not entirely perfect, so some work needs to be done. In some cases, the text of the standard is not legally legal but descriptive. The name and text of part 1 of article 1901, which is supplemented by the Criminal Code, are also needed for adjustment. More detail should be given to the term "financial pyramid", the responsibility for its creation, to foresee a more stringent responsibility and improvement in the case of systemic formation of financial pyramids. And given the above, the faction of the All-Ukrainian Union of Freedom proposes, in the first reading, to adopt this bill with further introduction of rights for second reading. Thank you.
ParlaMint-UA_2013-11-19-m0.u143	Thank you. Party of regions, National Deputy Eden. Please.
ParlaMint-UA_2013-11-19-m0.u144	Dear Volodymyr Vasilovich, dear colleagues! Alexander Eden, Kirovgrad, Party of Regions. In recent years, fraud has increased in Ukraine through financial pyramids. Sadly, our fellow countrymen tend to be deceived on another occasion. One of the main causes of the financial pyramids is the financial and economic situation in the country. People just don't know how to make money or how to save money. You lose faith in traditional types of investment, and in this case any, even the most ridiculous, adventure seems like a way out of the situation. That is why, today, we need to be fully involved in financial market control, because financial pyramids can operate in the form of a fully legal, officially registered office. Financial experts are constantly trying to market a new type of pyramid that is not explicitly prohibited by law. Therefore, the changes proposed in the bill will allow for the minimization of new schemes and financial pyramids, as well as specific penalties for their organization. The faction of the Party of the Regions will support the bill on the basis. Thank you for your attention.
ParlaMint-UA_2013-11-19-m0.u145	The Fatherland faction, National Deputy Yuri Dodaric. Please. I gave you my word. Please.
ParlaMint-UA_2013-11-19-m0.u146	Vladimir Vasilovich, my name is Yuri Odarchenko, the "Fatherland" Party.
ParlaMint-UA_2013-11-19-m0.u147	Odarchenka, I apologize.
ParlaMint-UA_2013-11-19-m0.u148	Ladies and gentlemen, I would like you to note that it seems that this bill proposes to establish criminal responsibility for the creation of a financial pyramid and prevent them from doing so. But in fact, from my point of view, it's aimed at one thing: creating conditions for law enforcement authorities to have even more pressure on business. To be honest, it's a government bill, but when you read it, you can't believe that you're an expert in law or just a healthy person. Dear friends, I'd like to ask you to think about the definition of pyramids. It reads as follows: "The financial pyramid is any transaction with financial assets carried out by natural or legal persons for the purpose of acquiring or benefiting from the redistribution of other persons' assets, especially without the introduction of actual economic activity." Colleagues, the definition of how broad it is that all Ukrainian citizens can participate in financial pyramids. "Redistribution of other people's assets," what is it? This is an inconsequential and incomprehensible definition of how any business process can be linked: sales, rent, supply and service, and you can find all over the place a redistribution of assets. In view of the absence of actual economic activity, it is an optional part of the definition, and all business activities in the country are banned. Dear colleagues, it seems to me that we must now postpone consideration of this bill. And today the rules of law have to be noted that the pyramid organization can now be qualified as a fraud for which more punishment is provided than is proposed in the bill for the activity of the pyramids, i.e. it has a reduction in actual criminal liability. I suggest.
ParlaMint-UA_2013-11-19-m0.u149	Vitalia Calla, faction, national deputy. Yes, you do.
ParlaMint-UA_2013-11-19-m0.u150	Dear colleagues, the issue of the existence of financial pyramids is really very important in Ukraine. Indeed, organizers of such schemes should be deceived, punished, and suspended. The strike faction supports the law on penalties that contribute to this. However, article 2 of the bill is, in our view, written in such a way that half of this room can be recognized as organizers of financial pyramids. Part two of the same article reportedly removes financial assets from financial institutions when they provide financial services. But recently, in Russia, Garant credit was officially registered, and with a license, it actually involved money under the form of rations and, in fact, was a financial pyramid. As a member of the profiling committee, I have already informed the drafters of the bill on the importance of taking into account the world's experience of preventive action by the state regarding the emergence of pyramids. Similar bills are currently being considered in the parliaments of Kazakhstan, Russia, and so on. We insist that the definition be clear and transparent and based on the criteria of actual activity, not on the purposes that are recorded in statutory documents and obtained licences, that is, if there is a clear lack of sales of goods or services to end-users, if direct or indirect coercion of consumers, investors or participants to buy goods with surpluses which. If consumers are forced to involve their friends, relatives, and so on. World legislation already has such criteria. We support it in the first reading, but if we don't make these changes, we won't support it in the second reading. Thank you.
ParlaMint-UA_2013-11-19-m0.u151	There was the national deputy of Belkova, the strike faction. I beg you, the faction of the Ukrainian Company, a minute, Killinkar's National Deputy. Please.
ParlaMint-UA_2013-11-19-m0.u152	Dear National Deputies! This is certainly a very important bill, because our citizens will often become hostages to those pyramids that work in Ukraine today. As one of these types of pyramids, these are credit unions that also redistribute other people's money, and so we need to be more specific in this bill with the idea of what a "financial pyramid" is. This was discussed in this rostrum. Of course, it is important to ensure that other financial - market operators do not fall under the bill. But what do I want to say about responsibility? You can see when the bill proposes criminal responsibility for the organization or promotion of a financial pyramid by a fine. From 100 untaxed minimums to criminal liability up to eight years, that's very true. You know, the lift is very big. So I suggest in the first reading we support.
ParlaMint-UA_2013-11-19-m0.u153	Finish up.
ParlaMint-UA_2013-11-19-m0.u154	This bill is first-reading, but this fine rule needs to be removed from this bill, because the fine is an incentive for new offences and new crimes. Thank you.
ParlaMint-UA_2013-11-19-m0.u155	Thank you. People's deputies, please prepare for the vote. Prepare for the vote, please! I'm voting on draft Law No. 2700 banning financial pyramids in Ukraine -- for adoption as a basis. People's deputies, please vote. [[13:32:30.]] For 310 Against 0, held – 2, not voted – 82. Decision taken. The factions. A draft Act (No. 2495) on the amendment of article 9 of the Ukrainian Law on Medical Devices is under consideration (registration of medical devices). How will we view it? Please, who's going to back up the procedure? [[13:33:17]] For 158. Against 71, held – 11, not voted – 159. Decision taken. Deputy Health Minister Bogchev Roman Mikhailovich reports. The minister is on his way out. Please report, two minutes.
ParlaMint-UA_2013-11-19-m0.u156	Thank you. Dear Vladimir Vasilovich! Dear National Deputies! The bill was drafted in accordance with the mandate of the President of Ukraine and to carry out the mandate of the Cabinet of Ministers of Ukraine. The purpose of the proposed project is to resolve the issue of intellectual property rights by cancelling the application for a state registration of medical devices for a certified copy of the relevant patent, as well as a document confirming the validity of the patent in Ukraine. This is due to the fact that the government’s registration of a medical device in Ukraine is essentially a medical permit based on motivated conclusions on the effectiveness and quality of the drug. Under established procedures, state registration has nothing to do with protection, the protection of patent rights for inventions, and useful models. This issue is addressed by the current legislation of Ukraine in the area of intellectual property. Therefore, there is no need to introduce additional rules in the legislation governing the circulation of medical devices. The bill thus removes the additional regulatory burden on the procedure for the state registration of medical devices and extends the access of Ukrainian citizens to the necessary drugs. The project meets the requirements of the present case.
ParlaMint-UA_2013-11-19-m0.u157	Finish up.
ParlaMint-UA_2013-11-19-m0.u158	The project meets the requirements of current legislation, without notice agreed by the Ministry of Justice, Minfin and the Ministry of Economic Development. Please be supportive. Thank you very much for your attention.
ParlaMint-UA_2013-11-19-m0.u159	Thank you. Have a seat. I invite you to report to the head of the Committee on Health Care, Tetjana Dmitrovna Bachteev.
ParlaMint-UA_2013-11-19-m0.u160	Dear Volodymyr Vasilovich, distinguished national deputies! The Committee of the Supreme Council on Health at its meeting on June 19, this year, discussed a bill on medical devices. The purpose of the bill is to simplify the procedure for the state registration of medical devices and to reduce the number of documents submitted for registration. The bill proposes to amend article 9 of the Ukrainian Law on Medical Devices and exclude from the list of documents submitted for the registration of medical devices based or related to intellectual property. These are copies of patents or licenses that allow the manufacture of a medical device, documents that confirm the validity of a patent in Ukraine. In doing so, there remains a requirement for the submission of a letter stating that the third party’s rights protected by a patent are not violated in connection with the registration of a medical device. The Committee believes that the bill will help to strike a balance between the protection of intellectual property rights and the ability of Ukrainian citizens to access affordable medicines. At the same time, the National Deputies of our committee had a number of important comments that should be taken into account in the second reading in order to avoid the risks of making the population less accessible to innovative medical devices. According to the committee, a purely formal cancellation of a copy of a patent or a license during the registration of drugs related to intellectual property may create conditions for the unfair commercial use of intellectual property. From this.
ParlaMint-UA_2013-11-19-m0.u161	Finish up.
ParlaMint-UA_2013-11-19-m0.u162	This is also the case with numerous appeals. And our conclusion is that we're going to do it for the second reading. So I ask you to support everyone on the basis of the first reading and then the Committee on Protection will work on it for the second reading. Thank you.
ParlaMint-UA_2013-11-19-m0.u163	Thank you. Have a seat. Is there a desire to discuss? You don't? I'm asking you to sign up for factions. I beg you, the faction of the Party of the Regions, the National Deputy of Koleznichenko.
ParlaMint-UA_2013-11-19-m0.u164	Dear colleagues, the faction of the Party of the Regions believes that the bill is very important and needs to be supported, especially since the faction that underpins supports the bill with its cannon, howling and shouting. This is an excellent support for the excellent proposals made by our colleague Bahechev. The more unity we have in our Parliament, the better our health will be. Thank you to our supporters who, by shouting, raising, otherwise they can't, support this bill. Thank you.
ParlaMint-UA_2013-11-19-m0.u165	Freedom Union, Freedom Union, People's MP Melnik.
ParlaMint-UA_2013-11-19-m0.u166	Please pass the word to Saint Hanenko. Thank you.
ParlaMint-UA_2013-11-19-m0.u167	Pass it on, please.
ParlaMint-UA_2013-11-19-m0.u168	Sveslav Hanenko, faction of the All-Ukrainian Freedom Union. We've studied this Law on Medical Devices carefully, we've studied the amendment that's being proposed, and we've come to the conclusion that this kind of cleavage in legislation does not optimize the criminalized situation in the modern market for medical drugs. Therefore, the All-Ukrainian Union of Freedom will continue to vote in favour of this bill and we will propose a new bill on medical devices in Ukraine. Thank you.
ParlaMint-UA_2013-11-19-m0.u169	The Fatherland faction, the Ilik People's Deputy.
ParlaMint-UA_2013-11-19-m0.u170	Roman Ilik, Fatherland faction, 121 constituency, Drogbychina. Of course, there is a direct and specific question to the Ministry of Health, in which way they plan to lower prices for medicines in Ukraine, since we do not see this concept. And what we see is that the 4-5 drugs in Ukraine are 10 times more expensive than any country in Europe. Thus, the normal patching of holes, as suggested today, by the adoption of this so - called law, does not solve the problem in essence. Today, it seems that the essence of reform in the field today is not to upgrade the sector, but to reduce the number of Ukrainians in Ukraine. That's why the "Fatherland" faction won't support the required bill. Thank you.
ParlaMint-UA_2013-11-19-m0.u171	The Vitalia Klitschka faction, the people's deputy, Rosenko.
ParlaMint-UA_2013-11-19-m0.u172	Please pass the word to Oksani Prodan.
ParlaMint-UA_2013-11-19-m0.u173	Please, Oksana Sold.
ParlaMint-UA_2013-11-19-m0.u174	Dear Vladimir Vasilovich, distinguished colleagues, is actually in need of deregulation in Ukraine. And today's demand for step by step at various stages of additional help leads to only one: increasing the value of various goods for Ukrainians, including medical supplies. What, though, is proposed in this bill? The bill stipulates that now, when registering medical devices, the applicant will not be required to prove that the intellectual property that is in the drugs is being used by the intellectual property owner. What will this lead to? First of all, you and I are going to start getting an incomprehensible quality of production. Because today the intellectual property owner is responsible for his production. He won't be responsible for this tomorrow. But there's another part. Ukraine continues to be the first in terms of protection of property rights, including the protection of intellectual property. And if we support this situation, this bill will fall below the plentuse of protecting intellectual property in Ukraine. There's another part that doesn't have to be in the law. At present, medical devices are part of not only the value of intellectual value but also the value of the corruption that exists in the registration of the Ministry of Health. Therefore, we feel that we need deregulation, but not at the expense of the health of the Ukrainians, nor at the expense of honor, nor of Ukraine’s position in the world. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-UA_2013-11-19-m0.u175	Thank you. All those who wanted to speak. May I have your attention and prepare for the vote, distinguished national MPs. I'm betting on a draft Act (No 2495) amending article 9 of the Ukrainian Law on Medical Devices (for the state registration of medical devices) to be accepted as a basis. People's deputies, please vote. [[13:44:43]] For 203 Against 14, held – 68, not voted – 98. The decision is not taken. There is a proposal to amend this law to the committee for the preparation for the re-reading of the first reading. Understand? People's deputies are requested to vote for this proposal. [[13:45:20.]] For-195 And this proposal is not supported. Against – 1, held – 28, not voted – 148. The decision is not taken. The law is rejected. The draft Law (2842) on amending the Ukrainian Budget Code on Coal or Torfian Briquettes is under consideration. How do we view it? Well, let's do it in a nutshell. Please vote. [[13:46:07]] For-162 Against 56, held – 10, not voted – 153. Decision taken. Ladies and gentlemen, we have 15 minutes. There's 15 minutes to consider, but if there's a few minutes, I'm going to continue the session, the morning session. Please report to the first Deputy Minister of Energy and Coal Industry Igor Mikolaiovich Popovic. The minister is also on his way out. Please.
ParlaMint-UA_2013-11-19-m0.u176	Thank you. Ladies and gentlemen, this is a draft law that is intended to address the issue of clarifying and clarifying the conditions of carbon security for domestic fuels, particularly peat briquettes, and addressing the socio-economic consequences of the elimination of mining enterprises. The draft Law of Ukraine proposes to amend articles 89 and 102 of the Ukrainian Budget Code and to add a list of public social protection expenditure to government budget subsidies to local budgets, including expenditure on compensation to persons who, in accordance with articles 43 and 48 of the Ukrainian Mining Law, have the right to free coal mining, but who live in central heating houses alongside coal as an alternative to peat briquettes. It should be noted that in order to implement the provisions of this bill, the Law on Amendments to the Ukrainian Tax Code has already been adopted and has entered into force with regard to improving taxation of the tax categories of persons who receive domestic fuel in accordance with the Mining Act. In view of the above, please support the draft Ukrainian Law amending the Ukrainian Budget Code on Coal, or Torfian Briquettes. Thank you for your attention.
ParlaMint-UA_2013-11-19-m0.u177	Thank you. Have a seat. I invite the head of the Budget Committee, Eugenia Borisovich Heller, to report. Please.
ParlaMint-UA_2013-11-19-m0.u178	Dear Volodymyr Vasilovich, distinguished national deputies! On June 5, the Committee on Budget Affairs considered a government draft of the Law (number 2842) amending the Ukrainian Budget Code. Regardless of the fact that the Law (number 2843) has not yet been considered, the Budget Committee has adopted the following decision: To adopt this law as a basis and as a whole as a law. Please be supportive. Thank you.
ParlaMint-UA_2013-11-19-m0.u179	Thank you. If you'd like to sign up for the performance. You're saying it's a very good Ukrainian language? We're not going to do that. I'm asking you, Party of Regions, National Deputy Momot.
ParlaMint-UA_2013-11-19-m0.u180	Alexander Momot, 27th District, Dnipropetrovsk, Party of Regions. Dear Vladimir Vasilovich, my dear colleagues, I call upon everyone to support this bill, which will reduce social tension in miners and in those enterprises that are particularly closed during restructuring. Please be supportive.
ParlaMint-UA_2013-11-19-m0.u181	Please, Freedom Union, National Deputy of Cherniaków.
ParlaMint-UA_2013-11-19-m0.u182	Please pass the word to Mikhalchino.
ParlaMint-UA_2013-11-19-m0.u183	Pass it on, please.
ParlaMint-UA_2013-11-19-m0.u184	Honourable Volodymira Vasilovich, honourable members of the people, the faction intends to support the bill on the basis and, in general, subject to a preliminary review and adoption of a bill amending the Ukrainian Mining Law, because it sees the important social pressure that this bill provides for. Indeed, it is free of charge not only for coal but also for peat briquettes for the household needs of people living in centralized homes. In today's socio-economic situation, it is an important addition to state care and social protection against vulnerable social groups. Then the faction, aware of the importance of the issue, will clearly support the bill and will urge other colleagues to vote positively for it as a basis and as a whole. Thank you.
ParlaMint-UA_2013-11-19-m0.u185	Thank you. The faction of the Ukrainian Company, the national deputy of the Jury.
ParlaMint-UA_2013-11-19-m0.u186	Please pass the word to Poor Vladimir.
ParlaMint-UA_2013-11-19-m0.u187	Pass it on, please.
ParlaMint-UA_2013-11-19-m0.u188	Bidovka Vladimir, Company of Ukraine. The faction of the Communist Party of Ukraine will necessarily support this bill because it has a social focus, especially for residents, so to speak, of the Buro-Coal region. This is Kirovogradsky, the Chercas region, where people will be forced to drown with peat because of their heating system. At the same time, I would like to draw attention, especially to the ministries, to the provision of stone coal, say, the Donbass basin. Because today, alongside the very problem of securing closed mines, both legal problems and simply, let's say, indifferent local authorities to this problem, there are today a number of people who do not receive this coal without merit. Moreover, today, in the Donetsk region of Snow, Torres, there are a number of people in the mining area who are complaining, frankly, about what is being brought to them, not coal, but some kind. And they're likely to get coal from their digs, and they're using normal coal on their own schemes. By the way, as far as copanas are concerned, I would like to give an example not even of our statement by the communists, but of the official information provided by the prosecutor of the Simayla district, 156 kopecks, according to the prosecutor's office. Here, too, I would like to draw the attention of the Ministry to this order. Because today, coal from the trenches, we've come to the point that it's already going to the heat station. And the coal that's from the mines is in the warehouses. Thank you, Your Honor, for your attention. Once again, as this bill is a social bill, the Company of Ukraine will support it. Thank you.
ParlaMint-UA_2013-11-19-m0.u189	The Vitalia Klitschka faction, People's Deputy Kaplin.
ParlaMint-UA_2013-11-19-m0.u190	Please pass the word to Rosenko.
ParlaMint-UA_2013-11-19-m0.u191	Please, Paul Rosenko.
ParlaMint-UA_2013-11-19-m0.u192	Paul Rosenco, Vitaly Caller's Faction. Of course, we, our faction will support the bill, but I want to pay attention to both the ministries and all the Ukrainian national deputies. Colleagues, you and I are already living in the 21st century, and so far we have been using energy-saving and alternative fuel technologies effectively in Ukraine, and again we are producing peat and coal to our miners. I've talked about this a number of times, even in places where this fuel is used, people go to other technologies, and we only give them a choice: either peat, or coal. And so there's an offer to make a normal, once-in-a-lifetime, complex decision so that all users of such services have the right to any kind of alternative fuel. Don't get people into these environmentally harmful technologies. For look what you are doing in the ministry, and what complaints today are about the quality of the coal that people receive. And so I propose to the Ministry that we take this matter seriously. And the second. Vladimir Vasilovich! We, in our faction, have a lot of complaints that miners today are being held back from the Social Insurance Fund. So the government has repeatedly said that something is going to be extinguished, but until now, three, four months later, miners are not getting their payments. So I'm asking you to consider this part of my speech as a parliamentary appeal from the People's Deputies of the Strike faction to order the integrity of the regression payments to miners. A request to do so.
ParlaMint-UA_2013-11-19-m0.u193	I'm asking protocolly, regressive payments so that on Friday at the "hour of the government" they can answer the people's MPs so that I can sign this letter today. Please. Did everyone say that? Everyone made a statement. Please prepare for the vote. You'll be having a break. Please prepare for the vote. I am proposing a bill (No.2842) amending the Ukrainian Budget Code on Coal or Torfian Briquettes – to be adopted as a basis and as a whole. People's deputies, please vote. [[13:55:56]] For 293 Against 0, held – 1, not voted – 85. Decision taken. The factions. The morning session of the Supreme Council of Ukraine is closed. At 16 o'clock, we'll resume our session.
