ParlaMint-UA_2013-10-10-m0.u1	Good morning, distinguished national deputies, invited guests of the Supreme Council of Ukraine! People's deputies, please prepare for registration. Please turn on the "Race" system. [[10:01:33]] There were 388 national deputies registered in the hall. The morning session of the Supreme Council of Ukraine is open. Today is the birthday of the National Deputy of Ukraine, Anton Ivanovich Kisse. Let's say hello to the People's Deputy on his birthday. [[Applause]] Dear National Deputies! I'm asking for your attention. May I have your attention, ladies and gentlemen of the nation? Two factions: the "Fatherland" faction and the "Freedom" faction, in accordance with article 27, paragraph 15, of the Supreme Council Rules, require a recess to hold consultations on issues of order and declaration. So I'm asking the faction leaders to come into the office of the Supreme Council. And I'm calling it a 15-minute break. We'll resume the session in 15 minutes.
ParlaMint-UA_2013-10-10-m0.u2	Ladies and gentlemen, we continue our session. I'm asking you to sit down. May I have your attention, please? Please sit in your seats. I give the floor to Arsenius Petrovich Yatzenyuk, Head of the Fatherland faction, for his statement. Please.
ParlaMint-UA_2013-10-10-m0.u3	Dear Mr. Head, honourable national deputies of Ukraine, today the Ukrainian Parliament must consider a favourable decision for the Ukrainian State, namely the question of amending the Constitution, which should strengthen the independence of the judiciary. I emphasize that the independence of the judiciary should be strengthened rather than the process of privatizing the judiciary. We, as the Ukrainian opposition, namely, three factions: "Fatherhood", "Break" and "Freedom", have made clear the legal and political argument that a new joint harmonized bill should be introduced, which should provide for, firstly, the introduction of the institution of responsibility to the judge and the influence of a corrupt judge who violates the law, the Constitution, the law and justice. The second is the restoration of the full competence of the Supreme Court of Ukraine as the highest judicial institution in the country, which not only generalises the practice, but which can review any case in Ukraine. The third is that it is unacceptable to cancel the term of office of the Attorney General of Ukraine. Under such circumstances, it can be said that, on the basis of the conclusion of the Constitutional Court of Ukraine, which states that the cancellation of the term further introduces the independence of the Attorney General, let us cancel the term of office of the President, the Prime Minister, the national deputies of Ukraine, the Head of the National Bank, the members of the Central Election Commission. This is another step towards privatizing the post of Attorney General of Ukraine. In fact, an organ is created – the Supreme Council of Justice, which is emphasized by the Venice Commission of Ukraine, which receives such powers as neither the President nor the Supreme Council of Ukraine have taken together. In addition, there are two parallel structures under this draft amendments to the Constitution, namely, the Higher Council of Justice and the Higher Qualifications Commission of Judges, where the powers of both have common characteristics. And the Venice Commission stresses that there is no need for the purpose of having two organs. We carefully studied the findings of the Venice Commission. Mr. Head, we are addressing you: we believe that it is now necessary to postpone voting on this bill. The other one. We propose to meet with the President of Ukraine, Viktor Yanukovic, as the subject of the legislative initiative to amend the Constitution. Make an urgent joint bill.
ParlaMint-UA_2013-10-10-m0.u4	Let me finish. Don't scream, I hear you. Please.
ParlaMint-UA_2013-10-10-m0.u5	We propose to hold a public meeting with President Viktor Yanukovic of Ukraine as the subject of a legislative initiative to amend the Constitution of Ukraine. To take the basis of the bill was introduced by him and to make the essential amendments that the opposition insists on. Once again, the question of the responsibility and resignation of the judge, which can be initiated by both the local community and 150 national deputies of Ukraine, is the competence of the Supreme Court of Ukraine as supreme.
ParlaMint-UA_2013-10-10-m0.u6	Finish up, finish up.
ParlaMint-UA_2013-10-10-m0.u7	As a court of the highest court. The third is the return of the Attorney General's term of office. The fourth is the order of formation of the High Council of Justice. Dear colleagues, we have no right to privatize the judicial system in the country, the responsibility of the judge, his work on Ukrainian citizens and his work solely by law, the Constitution, law and justice are our requirements. We consider it necessary to meet with the President and to submit a joint, coherent bill. Thank you for your attention.
ParlaMint-UA_2013-10-10-m0.u8	Thank you. Ladies and gentlemen, we are beginning to consider making changes to the Constitution of Ukraine. The draft Law (Registration No. 2522a) amending the Constitution of Ukraine on strengthening the guarantees of the independence of judges is being introduced. According to the requirements of part seven of article 149 of the Rules, the matter is being considered in full discussion. Therefore, the word for the report is given to the Councilman of the President of Ukraine, Andrija Volodymyrovich Portnov. Please, you have 10 minutes.
ParlaMint-UA_2013-10-10-m0.u9	The Honorable Head of the Supreme Council! Honorable National Deputies of Ukraine! Respectable citizens! Today the issue of prior approval of the draft Law amending the Constitution on strengthening the guarantees of the independence of judges is being considered. This bill was considered by the Constitutional Court of Ukraine and recognized as being in conformity with the Constitution. Since the inclusion of this draft Law into the agenda of the day-to-day session of the Supreme Council of the Seventh Council, we have received more than a clear call from you to adopt this bill as soon as possible by the European institutions. I would like to draw attention to the country’s distinguished national deputies only to the following positions that have been raised in this regard. The head of the Venice Commission, Gianni Bukikkio, noted that, I quote, "The proposed changes to the Constitution are a very positive step." The recommendations of the Venice Commission, contained in the conclusion of the bill, were included in the final text. He also expressed the hope that such changes to the Constitution would be accepted. The Declaration of the Parliamentary Assembly of the Council of Europe of October 1, 2013 states: "The rapid adoption of the draft Ukrainian Law amending the Constitution today, together with all the political parties represented in the Ukrainian Parliament, will be a key achievement of a comprehensive constitutional reform, which has been repeatedly recommended by the Parliamentary Assembly of the Council of Europe." Correspondents of the Monitoring Committee of the Council of Europe in Ukraine also urged all the political forces of the Supreme Council to take into account the recommendations of the Venice Commission and to accept the proposed changes to the Constitution of Ukraine. It should also be recalled that the adoption of this bill is an important condition for Ukraine to sign the Association Agreement with the European Union. Turning to the content of the bill itself, I would like to point out once again that the bill has been drafted taking into account the conclusions and recommendations of European experts, which have repeatedly called attention to the need to amend the Constitution and to bring it into line with international standards of justice. An analysis of their findings and recommendations shows that the most problematic are the provisions of the Basic Law of Ukraine, which contain rules on the composition and authority of the High Council of Justice, the existing order of appointment and the election of judges and the related five-year term of appointment for judges for the first time, the procedure for removing parliamentary integrity, the order of formation and the liquidation of courts. The bill under consideration today contains positions on addressing these issues. And the proposed changes came to the approval of the Venice Commission, which concluded on June 15 of this year on the content of the bill. It is worth recalling the basics of this draft law to understand their importance in further developing the judicial system and increasing the level of assurance of the independence of judges. The project is designed to change the composition and order of the High Council of Justice. It is anticipated that 12 of the 20 members of the High Council of Justice will be judges appointed by the assembly of judges of Ukraine. In addition, the Supreme Council of Justice will be composed of the head of the Constitutional Court, the head of the Supreme Court of Ukraine, the head of the Council of Judges of Ukraine, who are also elected by the higher judicial authorities or bodies created by them. The presence of most judges in the High Council of Justice will help to avoid unjustified pressure on judges, in matters of dismissal and invocation to disciplinary responsibility, to reduce the risk of political influence on the decision-making of these issues, since the members of this body will no longer be appointed by other authorities, including those appointed by the President of Ukraine. It is also suggested that the existing order of appointment and release of judges be changed. It is envisaged that decrees regarding the appointment of general jurisdictional judges to office on an indefinite basis, as well as the dismissal of a judge from office, may be approved only within the limits and on the basis of appropriate submissions made by the High Council of Justice. Thus, the participation of the Head of State in these matters will be limited to legitimizing the decisions of the High Council of Justice and granting them a high legal status. This is also the order suggested by the parliamentary opposition in its bill. Similarly, the President’s rights to transfer judges depend solely on the submission of the Supreme Qualifications Commission of Judges. Another novelty of the bill, directly related to the appointment of judges, is the proposal to cancel the five - year term for the first time. The existence in the Constitution of Ukraine of a series of trial terms for judges has repeatedly been the subject of criticism by the Parliamentary Assembly of the Council of Europe and the Venice Commission, since it has been regarded as a threat to the independence of the judge who could compromise with representatives of the political authorities to elect a judge. The bill proposes to waive the five - year term of appointment and to establish that the judge is appointed on an indefinite basis. Regarding the issue of the removal of judicial immunity, it should be noted that according to the recommendations of the Venice Commission, the Constitution should provide for the removal of judicial immunity by an independent judicial body. Taking this into account, the draft law proposes that consent be given to the detention or arrest of a judge by the Higher Council of Justice. Taking into account the requirements of article 19 of the Constitution, it is suggested that the grounds and procedures for granting or refusing consent to the Supreme Council are determined by the law of Ukraine. Equally important is the provisions of the bill, which are proposed for the creation, reorganization and liquidation of judges, as well as the definition of their network, to be implemented by the laws of Ukraine. Such an approach would allow not only the Supreme Council to determine the legislative principles of judicial activity but also the organizational structure of the judicial system. It will also guarantee the stability of the judicial system, because any decisions related to its changes must be made by a majority of the constitutional composition of Parliament. The bill also proposes to amend the mandate of the Supreme Court of Ukraine, granting it the right to ensure the same application of the law to all courts of general jurisdiction. The relevant changes will allow for strengthening the role of the Supreme Court of Ukraine as the highest judicial authority in the system of courts of general jurisdiction, as well as the creation of a legal mechanism for the formation of a single judicial practice. An important part of the bill is the position that directly applies to a judge. In this context, proposals made in the bill have a special role to play in raising demands on those who may claim to serve as judges. It's an increase from 25 to 30 years of age, I'm an undergraduate from 3 to 5 years old. There are also proposals to increase the borderline age of the judge and to strengthen the constitutional level of the selection of candidates for judicial office. The adoption of such changes is called upon to encourage judges to become persons who have sufficient professional and life experience and to give judges who have reached 65 years of age but who have a desire to work, the opportunity to continue their work as judges. Honorable National Deputies of Ukraine! All these and other provisions of the bill are aimed at a qualitative transformation of the judicial system, and their content is based on the international standards of judiciality laid down in the explanatory note to the bill. Thank you for your attention.
ParlaMint-UA_2013-10-10-m0.u10	Thank you. Dear colleagues! Any questions? I'm asking you to sign up. I beg of you, the Zarubinsky People's Deputy.
ParlaMint-UA_2013-10-10-m0.u11	Dear Andrey Volodymyrovich, I think these legislative initiatives are a certain extension of the system's reform work. What a reform, I'll tell you. I remember when you reported the Criminal Procedure Code, only the lazy one didn't try to discredit it. Although then everyone realized that these were positive changes, positive reforms. I think it's the same question, or the same question. And this rhetoric, which is against this legislative initiative, if you reject all of the nagging, is that a lot of people want to influence the judges' decisions over and over again. And you witnessed how here our deputies, who didn't know that judge, did everything to keep him from being approved so that he wouldn't vote for him. Why? Because he decided not so their question, or the question of their relatives, or the question of their unpersonal business and so on. I want to say, is this really the independence of the judges being offered? Thank you.
ParlaMint-UA_2013-10-10-m0.u12	Please.
ParlaMint-UA_2013-10-10-m0.u13	Thank you, Your Honor Oleg Alexanderovich, for your support for our legislative initiatives. First. What I'm saying is that this bill proposes the depoliticization of the judicial system. We ourselves give up our actual quota at the High Council of Justice. The Head of State will no longer appoint his representatives to the High Council of Justice. Parliament will not be appointed. Parliament, in which there is actually a parliamentary majority that supports the Presidential initiatives. The Justice Minister resigns from the High Council of Justice, all prosecutors leave the High Council of Justice, and the Attorney-General in office will not even be able to vote on judges, but only on prosecutors, and initiate disciplinary conduct. We think it's a major element of the depoliticization of the judicial system. Thank you for your support.
ParlaMint-UA_2013-10-10-m0.u14	The faction of the Party of the Regions, the National Deputy of Popescu.
ParlaMint-UA_2013-10-10-m0.u15	Thank you. Sand, faction of the Party of the Regions. Reverend Andrey Volodymyrovich! I have three very short questions. First question. And they all have to do with the fact that today the opposition has made an appropriate statement that we need to work again, and we need to get back together again. First question: What proposals for amendments to the Constitution have been made by the opposition in the last year to ensure an independent judiciary? That's the first question. The second question is, they're referring to the Venice Commission. Please tell me, what is the conclusion of the Venice Commission on the basics of these proposals? And the third. Please tell us that you are constantly meeting with representatives of the Parliamentary Assembly of the Council of Europe, including Ukraine’s rapporteurs. What is the position of the rapporteurs of the Council of Europe, Mrs Reps and Mrs Purbe-Lundin, which members of the Monitoring Committee on this subject? It means making these changes to the Constitution. Thank you.
ParlaMint-UA_2013-10-10-m0.u16	Thank you, Your Honor Ivan Vasilovich. I'll start with the last question. In my report, I said that. This is a public statement by the co-reporters of the Monitoring Committee, who called on all the political forces of the Supreme Council to take into account the recommendations of the Venice Commission and to accept the proposed changes to the Constitution of Ukraine. Perhaps there will be a theoretical question: Is there any other change proposed by the Venice Commission? I'm going to quote a reference that was sent to us by Ukraine's Permanent Representation to the Council of Europe: "It states in this reference that no other bill has come to the Venice Commission." At the same time, I would like to quote you, Mr. Ivan Vasilovich, and the people's deputies of Ukraine. Report that the Venice Commission had considered the question of the system of amendments to the Constitution on 14 June. For unknown reasons, only June 15, the following day, the parliamentary opposition officially turned to the official site of one of the opposition factions, asking not to consider.
ParlaMint-UA_2013-10-10-m0.u17	Finish up.
ParlaMint-UA_2013-10-10-m0.u18	Don't look at this bill. That is, the day after he had actually been considered and concluded by the Venice Commission. Thank you.
ParlaMint-UA_2013-10-10-m0.u19	Andry Volodymyrovich, thank you. Have a seat. Time's up. The report is given to the head of the Committee of the Supreme Council of Ukraine on Legal Policy Valery Volodymyrovich Pisarenko. Please, you have up to five minutes.
ParlaMint-UA_2013-10-10-m0.u20	Thank you, Reverend Vladimir Vasilovich. Thank you, distinguished national MPs. The Committee of the Supreme Council of Ukraine on Legal Policy considered at its meeting on 9 October this year, submitted by the President of Ukraine and designated as urgent, a bill amending the Constitution of Ukraine on strengthening the guarantees of the independence of judges (registration number 2522a) and the findings of the Constitutional Court on it. The purpose of the bill is to improve the Constitution of Ukraine and to strengthen existing guarantees of the independence of judges, which will allow for a change in the existing procedure for the appointment and release of judges, reduce the role of the political authorities in this process, and allow the transfer of powers to deal with issues related to the activity of judges to the knowledge of larger bodies, some of which will be the judges themselves. By a decree of the Supreme Council of Ukraine of 5 September 2013, the bill has been incorporated into the agenda of the day-to-day session of the Supreme Council of Ukraine of the Seventh Convention and has been sent to the Constitutional Court of Ukraine to reach a conclusion on its compliance with the requirements of articles 157, 158 of the Basic Law of Ukraine. What's significant is that, dear colleagues, I want to remind you that this is a decision. I'm afraid it's a decision made by a constitutional majority. Last time, we supported that 377 votes in favour. On 19 September 2013, the Constitutional Court of Ukraine adopted a finding in the case of the Supreme Council of Ukraine to reach a conclusion on the appropriateness of the bill amending the Constitution of Ukraine on guarantees of the independence of judges to the requirements of articles 157 and 158 of the Constitution of Ukraine. According to the findings of the Constitutional Court, the amendments proposed by the Bill do not provide for the abolition or restriction of human and civil rights and freedoms and are not aimed at eliminating independence or violating Ukraine’s territorial integrity, and therefore do not conflict with the requirements of article 157 of the Constitution of Ukraine. Ukraine is not in a state of war or emergency, so the bill does not conflict with part two of article 1578 of Ukraine’s basic law. During its term of office, the Supreme Council of the Seventh Congregation did not alter articles 55, 85, 106, 122, 125, 126, 127, 128, 129, and 131 of the Constitution of Ukraine. The bills are in line with international legal acts, including the basic principles of the independence of the judiciary, endorsed by the General Assembly resolutions of 29 November and 13 December 1985, the recommendation of the Cabinet of Ministers of the Council of Europe to Member States concerning judges - independence, objectivity and duties of 17 November 2010. Since this bill is one of those that depends on the success of our nation's European integration movement, I particularly want to highlight the favorable responses and calls made by representatives of the European institutions. Yes, the co-reports of the Monitoring Committee of the Parliamentary Assembly of the Council of Europe on Ukraine, Miles Reps and Marietta de Purbe-Lundin, called for the speedy adoption of amendments to the Constitution of Ukraine on strengthening the independence of judges as such, which were positively appreciated by the Venice Commission of the Council of Europe. I quote the co-rapporteurs: "We call on all the political forces in the Ukrainian Parliament to implement the recommendations of the Venice Commission and to adopt amendments to the Constitution of Ukraine without delay. The adoption and effectiveness of these reforms is also important in the context of the future signing of the Association Agreement with the European Union, which we strongly support." It welcomes the reform of the judicial system in Ukraine and considers the steps taken by Ukraine to be a prerequisite for the signing of the Association Agreement with the EU of the Council of Europe. Speaker-in-Office of the Council of Europe, Daniel Holtgen, who noted that the Council of Europe is very pleased with Ukraine's progress in judicial reform. The Ambassador of the Kingdom of the Netherlands also stated that reform of the judiciary and the prosecutor's office, as well as amending the Constitution, is a necessary criterion for signing the agreement. The Declaration of the Parliamentary Assembly of the Council of Europe, published on the official website of PARJE, states: "We welcome the continuation by the Ukrainian State institutions of efforts aimed at implementing the reforms necessary to fulfil the obligations and obligations of a member of the Council of Europe and the criteria for signing the Association Agreement with the European Union." In view of the above, the Committee of the Supreme Council of Ukraine on Legal Policy decided to recommend to the Supreme Council of Ukraine a bill submitted by the President of Ukraine amending the Constitution of Ukraine on strengthening the guarantees of the independence of judges (registration number 2522a) to be approved in advance. Thank you for your attention.
ParlaMint-UA_2013-10-10-m0.u21	Thank you. Is there a question for the committee manager? Please sign up. I beg of you, the Freedom Union, the People's Deputy Bublik.
ParlaMint-UA_2013-10-10-m0.u22	I'd like to give Oleg a word to the Schneitzer.
ParlaMint-UA_2013-10-10-m0.u23	Pass it on, please.
ParlaMint-UA_2013-10-10-m0.u24	Oleg Knaczykki, the All-Ukrainian Freedom Union. Please specify exactly what guarantees of judicial independence are provided in your bill? Similarly, what restraint and opposition mechanisms are offered in exchange for the standards that are in force today? And one more question. What will happen in this case, yes, in practice, if the decree of appointment of the judge is not signed by the President? Can this judge work as a judge or not? And one more question, fourth. What does the rule of appointment of the Attorney General of Ukraine have to do with ensuring the independence of the judiciary? Thank you.
ParlaMint-UA_2013-10-10-m0.u25	Thank you, Your Honor! I wanted to point out first. I think you've been able to see all these things during the session of your profile committee, which has also considered this bill. But anyway, what I want to say is that even for, even according to the head of the Venice Commission, almost 100 percent of the proposals given to us by the Venice Commission are included in this bill. I think it will probably hurt some people that Parliament will no longer have an impact on Ukrainian courts. Yes, you're talking about the last step in signing the decree on the appointment of judges being the President. But what I want to remind you is that the same standard, first of all, is in the supply of opposition. Secondly, I want to point out that this particular act is a ceremonial function. And the Constitution provides for almost the obligation of such an act. In the last three years, no judge has been blocked by the President's decree. Thus, these changes will be a major step toward ensuring the independence of judges. I want to make a note.
ParlaMint-UA_2013-10-10-m0.u26	Finish up.
ParlaMint-UA_2013-10-10-m0.u27	I want to point out that yesterday, during the committee meeting, we had leaders from all the branches of the court, all the courts of Ukraine, the senior specialized and the head of the Supreme Court. They all appreciated this bill as a guarantee of the independence of judges. Thank you.
ParlaMint-UA_2013-10-10-m0.u28	I beg you, the Vitalia Klitschka faction, the Kutov People's Deputy.
ParlaMint-UA_2013-10-10-m0.u29	Please pass on the word to Natalia Agafone. Thank you.
ParlaMint-UA_2013-10-10-m0.u30	Pass it on, please.
ParlaMint-UA_2013-10-10-m0.u31	Natalia Agaphonova, Vitalia Klitschka Faction. I wanted to ask you this. You refer to this bill as taking into account all the remarks made by the Venice Commission. I want to ask you this. As for the Venice Commission's observation of the distribution of powers between the High Council of Justice and the Higher Qualifications Commission in the appointment of judges. And for example, what's it going to be like, why, first of all, does the President and the Council of Justice have to confirm this recommendation and on what criteria should he do it? What should be done if this recommendation is not confirmed, since, again, what criteria can it provide in the next, the Higher Qualifications Committee, to resubmit this candidature? Because it gives a fairly broad discretionary mandate to both the President and the High Council of Justice, that is, those bodies that, we say, they have in question the appointment of judges.
ParlaMint-UA_2013-10-10-m0.u32	Thank you, Reverend Natalia Volodymyr. I want to point out that, in fact, changes to the Constitution don't solve a hundred percent of the issues, but you don't have to do that under the Basic Law. For this there is a session room and there are deputies working on the laws on the judiciary, on the status of judges. So you and I will be able to solve those issues that may be discussed today in this room and in the working groups. But I would like to point out that it would be very useful if, even if the hearings about the Venice Commission were also attended by opposition representatives, because I would like to point out that the Venice Commission is sufficiently normal when national legal systems have features that are set up for certain countries, including Ukraine. So for some time, the Venice Commission actually went to Ukraine to meet and we decided on the work regime.
ParlaMint-UA_2013-10-10-m0.u33	Thank you. Have a seat. I'm asking national MPs who want to participate in the discussion to sign up for factions. The Vitalia Klitschka faction, the People's Deputy of Kuren.
ParlaMint-UA_2013-10-10-m0.u34	Please give Natalia to Agafone.
ParlaMint-UA_2013-10-10-m0.u35	Please, Natalia Agaphonova.
ParlaMint-UA_2013-10-10-m0.u36	Natalia Agaphonova, Vitalia Klitschka Faction. I want to point out that this bill really removes the Supreme Council from the process of appointing judges. This step is indeed depoliticization. But this depoliticization is one-sided because we're transferring the center from the Supreme Council to the President. It's, you know, like the beginning of this classic "E2-E4" chess game, but then the combination develops in a very different way. And this transfer of these powers to the President does not contribute at all to the independence of the judges. Now behind the model proposed, there are three individuals, there are three figures, yes, who will participate in the appointment of judges. This is the High Qualifying Commission, the High Council of Justice and the President. Again, we have not heard an answer from either the President's representative or the chairman of the committee, what should we do if the President does not sign the order to appoint a judge? I want to draw your attention to the fact that the argument that it hasn't been in three years is not a legal argument. And in fact, we have to predict everything so that we don't have legal gaps and there's no blocking process, because only then can we talk about the so-called ceremonial function of the President. Otherwise we can say that if he actually has a judge appointed only by decree and there is no predictable action in the case of these gaps, we can only say that he is the main figure who appoints the judges. Again, with regard to the next body, the High Council of Justice. Many have said that her authority is excessive, very broad. And in fact, if we go back to assigning judges to administrative positions, this authorization was unconstitutional during 2010-2013. And the Council of Europe has been paying attention on a number of occasions, including Alexander Volkov v. Ukraine in the Decision of the European Court of Justice, that such authority is unacceptable. Just as the Attorney-General's involvement in the High Council of Justice, even though he will only participate in matters concerning prosecutors, he is still a person who will influence the state of the judicial system. So I want to call you to what are the observations that are not taken into account by the Venice Commission. We have a mechanism for how we can work this out. And we really need to go to a dialogue, compromise -- not to adopt this law right now. Appropriately, send it to the profile committee for processing. Consider positions that are not taken into account by the Venice Commission. So this bill is not going to be Euro-integrated really, essentially, to be redrafted.
ParlaMint-UA_2013-10-10-m0.u37	Thank you, thank you. [[Applause]] The faction of the Party of the Regions, the National Deputy of the Oilynik.
ParlaMint-UA_2013-10-10-m0.u38	Dear Volodymyr Vasilovich, dear colleagues! European politicians acknowledge the fact that the President of Ukraine is the leader of the European integration process in Ukraine and this does not satisfy the opposition. Because when the question arises with our colleagues, why didn't the alternative bill register, as the law requires. When we were looking at the president's -- there's no answer. When you voted in favour of the Presidential Bill, you supported us and he won over 300 votes. And in the same way, we have signaled to Europeans and Ukrainian society that it has a constitutional perspective. You, when you proposed your bill, you didn't read the Constitution, you didn't read the Sixth Section of the Constitution, because you need 300 votes to register your bill. You haven't read your party programs, distinguished opponents. I remind you, you have made a commitment to undo the intrusiveness of the judges. Where is this position in your bill? You made a commitment, the jury's court. Where's your offer here? You have made a commitment to the formation of the High Council of Justice solely by the court of judges, and today you offer five of the 15 from the Supreme Council. Where's your offer? And that's why I come to the conclusion that you're political failures, because "the worse, the better," and what you can't do on your own, you're not letting anyone else do. Your arguments about the unconstitutionality of the President's bill are shattered by the Constitutional Court. They were as weak as the weak one was once a Ternopil mahogany, a venerable opposition. And I come to the conclusion that you don't want Euro-integration today, you're against it. And let me give you an example. Among the ranges of European laws that we have enacted are important, systemic, and signistic. You voted against the Law on Judiciality and the Status of Judges, you voted against the Criminal Procedure Code, you didn't vote on the Law on Lawyers, you don't want to vote in favour of this presidential law, which is supported by the Venice Commission and the Constitutional Court, you're threatening and not voting in favour of the Prosecutor's Office Act. The masks are off, your faces are all clear: you're against Euro-integration. And all the responsibility for not signing the agreement in November of the month rests with you. There's a lot of shouts like, "Glory to Ukraine!".. Hers is glory, and you are shame!
ParlaMint-UA_2013-10-10-m0.u39	Freedom Union, national deputy Oleg Tajnibok. Please.
ParlaMint-UA_2013-10-10-m0.u40	Oleg Tuggnibok, faction of the All-Ukrainian Freedom Union. Dear Society, two days ago with the mouth of the head of Parliament, we greeted the lawyers: they said very nice and correct words about this very important profession. It was Jurist’s Day, and I often remembered that time when I was studying in Lviv at the law school, and I remembered those teachers. And probably a lot of you who have legal education here, you can also remember, of course, if you went for couples, that the building of a state should be based on the distribution of three independent branches of power: legislative, executive and judicial. And it is by this very bill that the current authorities will completely destroy those fundamental principles of state building. Because what happens after the adoption of this bill will be the usurpation of power by one clan, the criminal clan that today is, hopefully, temporarily in power. What's being done by adopting this law is not the path to Euro-Integration, but rather by noble intentions they bridge the path to hell, and you can't call it another. The tactics chosen today by the representatives of the Party of the Regions are quite obvious and understandable. They talk about what they want to integrate into Europe, they approve laws with the right names, but the essence of those laws is completely the opposite, including with regard to this bill: regarding the appointment of the President of the Judges, concerning the granting of incredible powers to the High Council of Justice. Please tell me, what is it with the High Council of Justice to elect a Attorney General? Why choose other officials? In order to make such a "partner"? In order to dive into the rule of law? Society is absolutely clear that this bill cannot be approved. And if you're talking about the independence of the judges that we really need, and by the way, today the judiciary doesn't believe practically anyone, and only the enemy can want to go to trial, decide any disputes. It is obvious that judges need to be chosen, especially by local courts. The public must have the right to appeal the judges, it must be decided that for an unlawful decision by a judge, he must compensate with his own pocket if this decision is challenged. Not what you want to offer today, for the purpose of full usurpation of power. And you don't have to hide in Europe because it's hypocrisy. The faction of the All-U.S. Freedom Union does not support this bill, and we know that there will be a time when there will be independent courts in Ukraine! Glory to Ukraine!
ParlaMint-UA_2013-10-10-m0.u41	The faction of the Company of Ukraine, National Deputy Simonenko.
ParlaMint-UA_2013-10-10-m0.u42	Dear voters! In its view of the draft changes in this, which we are considering, to the Constitution, the faction emerges from the principled position. Only a change in the political regime and the political system can radically change the situation in the state, including in the judiciary. The company has repeatedly claimed that in order to effectively exercise justice in Ukraine, the judge is indeed to be independent. Today, it is primarily independence from oligarchs who have long forgotten that it is a law because they buy judges, buy their decisions, and thus do so to the fate of a million nations. Including this independence from the Supreme Council, from the President. The independence of the judge from the officials, the deputies, can only guarantee his choice. And we have repeatedly stressed this from the beginning of the organization of work in the Supreme Council, and this can already be done during the elections to the local self-government authorities in the fall of 2015. Judges are to be elected by citizens, and the Company has repeatedly focused on this. This will allow a judicial branch of power to be put under the real control of the people under the Constitution, which is the only source of power in Ukraine, to bring justice under the rule of law, to increase the impartiality and independence of the judge in the decision-making process. This is the basis for what needs to be done today. Moreover, when judges are elected as citizens, the judge will also be independent of the Supreme Council of Justice. Thus, a corrupt vertical in the judicial branch of power created during the years of independence will be destroyed. No country has ever had such a thing, but in the years of independence, we have had terrible corruption in Ukraine! The company insists that only the Supreme Council should decide on the creation and liquidation of judges. This makes it impossible when, as you all remember, Yushchenka and his "morning fools" didn't like the decision of the Kyiv District Administrative Court -- and he issued an order for his liquidation. Courts should not be created or eliminated under specific requirements of oligarchic authority. Other rules laid down by the law, such as the appointment of judges by the President, are in direct contravention of the Communist Party’s programming principles. We're against that kind of decision. Dear voters, the procedure provides for some consideration and unfortunately provides that amendments can only be made after prior approval. This allows us to initiate a process of making radical proposals with a view to making a radical change in the content of changes to the Constitution, of course, and a real change in the situation in the interests of the people. This procedure is necessary in order to formulate proposals from the Supreme Council in line with the promises made during the elections. And the last. The Company faction will by no means support the target project as well.
ParlaMint-UA_2013-10-10-m0.u43	Finish up.
ParlaMint-UA_2013-10-10-m0.u44	The faction of the company will by no means support the specified draft decision unless the faction has made any changes. And he won't vote for it in the last edition. And last of all, about the proposal to make joint changes from the party of power and opposition. This means only one, honourable electorate, that will truly be the culinary conspiracy of the various oligarchic clans about the use of judicial authority in the interests of the oligarchs. At the firm's discretion, there should be a question of the judges' election.
ParlaMint-UA_2013-10-10-m0.u45	Thank you. The Fatherland faction, Sergey Sobolev. Please.
ParlaMint-UA_2013-10-10-m0.u46	Dear colleagues, I'd like to say about the last of the hot speeches. Only if this project is now voted in 226 votes will it be impossible to amend it. That's why the only way to fix this disgraceful project is to not get 226 votes today. Then he returns to the profile committee, where there are employees of all factions, or a special commission is formed, and only then can we correct him. With regard to alternative projects. Does anyone not know that 165 national deputies representing the opposition tried to register the project at the right time? But we have a strange situation. By the way, the Head of the Supreme Council would like me to explain it. The Supreme Council will not register a project of 165 national deputies. Why did we introduce this project? But because in fact the project that the President introduced was created by an organ that is illegal. What is the Constituent Assembly, is there even one representative of the opposition factions? None! It's an organ that exists with the President, and even this body has passed a very different test, not one that went on to the Venice Commission, because there were a whole range of proposals made by the Venice Commission. Secondly, everyone here refers to the normative acts of the Parliamentary Assembly of the Council of Europe. I would like to remind you, indeed, literally a week ago, the Parliamentary Assembly of the Council of Europe is calling for a key issue: to put an end to the political repression in Ukraine, to release political prisoners and to do everything possible to ensure that Parliament, the President and other authorities make immediate proposals for the liberation of Timoshenko. It's just that somehow the President doesn't bring it in or look at it. Thirdly, what exactly is proposed by this bill? The Total Slavery of Judges! The judges will now depend not only on the body, the High Council of Justice, which is selected only by the President's Administration. Do some believe that the U.S. judges ’ assembly will pass their own decisions? We've seen how these decisions are approved. This project does not take into account the key question at all: why do we have the Supreme Court of Ukraine, which is a constitutional body that has no right to review any decision in a state without a decision of a higher court that makes or does not make proposals? The key issue is the Attorney General's mandate. Well, when Parliament itself increased its mandate to five years, it is clear that the term of parliamentary and procurator - general powers now coincide. But it can't be. That is why we in the Constitution need to establish this. And the last. The same kind of passionate speakers who don't smoke "ternopilla moss" because they're "canoe sixes" and don't realize that the key to this is now.
ParlaMint-UA_2013-10-10-m0.u47	Ladies and gentlemen, please sign up for this address. Here comes the recording. Please, the faction of the Ukrainian Company, the People's Deputy of Parubok. Please, People's Deputies, who's he handing over to?
ParlaMint-UA_2013-10-10-m0.u48	I would like to reiterate the proposals made by Petr Nikolaevich Simonenko. Because it is the true independence of judges and the judiciary that can only ensure their choice by the people, as required by the Compartium of Ukraine. It is in this case that judges will feel responsible, not to officials or to any State entity, but to the people of Ukraine. It is then that the judges will think whether they should twist the law like a breath in order to take the side of the structures of the JCC, not the consumers of the people. In order for judges to do everything allowed by law to repay people's arrears on wages rather than initially delay the process and take the position of an employer who violates the Labour Code. Today, it is the introduction of a system of changes to ensure that judges are judges. The people will be forced to reconsider and whether it is worth prohibiting the referendum initiated by the people and prohibiting people's right to a referendum, thereby taking away the constitutional right enshrined in the Constitution as the main source of power in Ukraine. That is why I demand once again to support the initiative of Petr Nikolaevich Simonenko to ensure that the main change in the democratization of the judicial system, in order for the judicial system to be independent, is addressed in the referendum. And for this issue, it is necessary to initiate a referendum in which people can answer: how and for what judges must be independent. Thank you.
ParlaMint-UA_2013-10-10-m0.u49	The faction of the Party of the Regions, the National MP of Sphenov.
ParlaMint-UA_2013-10-10-m0.u50	Dear Volodymyr Vasilovich, dear colleagues! Ukraine's draft law amending the Constitution of Ukraine on strengthening the guarantees of the independence of judges, which was discussed by the Supreme Council of Ukraine Committee on the Rule of Law and Justice, this bill is extremely relevant, this bill, I think, is both a judicial system and a European community, and Ukrainian citizens are waiting for it to be adopted. The project received a positive assessment by the experts of the Venice Commission. Moreover, recently the co-reporters of the monitoring committee of the Parliamentary Assembly of the Council of Europe in Ukraine made a statement on the need to adopt the bill in its existing form. The Supreme Court of Ukraine, the Supreme Economic Court of Ukraine, the Ministry of Justice of Ukraine, the Higher Council of Justice, the Higher Qualifications Commission of judges of Ukraine also support the adoption of this bill. As a result of the review, the Committee on the Rule of Law and Justice decided yesterday to recommend that the Supreme Council of Ukraine approve the bill in advance. I would also like to inform you that this Friday at the next plenary session of the Venice Commission will consider what our country has done following the conclusions of the Venice Commission on a bill amending the Constitution of Ukraine. That is why I ask all Ukrainian national MPs to forget their political ambitions and vote in favour of this bill's prior approval. Thank you for your attention.
ParlaMint-UA_2013-10-10-m0.u51	Freedom Union, national deputy of Orotyuk.
ParlaMint-UA_2013-10-10-m0.u52	Yuri Orotyuk, the All-Ukrainian Freedom Union. Please pass the word to Oleg.
ParlaMint-UA_2013-10-10-m0.u53	We give the word to the People's Deputy.
ParlaMint-UA_2013-10-10-m0.u54	Oleg Knaczykki, the All-Ukrainian Freedom Union. Before starting my speech, I would like to ask journalists to follow up on the voting process. Because we see that most people today are set up to adopt this bill, and we see that half of the factions are not in the hall. Moreover, with regard to nonfractionals, we see that today there is no national representative of Jeremiah, and his card is inserted. He was gone yesterday and his card voted yesterday. So today we predict that today will be returned to the buttonage. As far as the bill is concerned. Here, reporters have repeatedly stressed the demands of the European Union, on the requirements of the Venice Commission. And that's what we've been talking about for a long time. And it is unfortunate that today, under the good intentions of European integration, the authorities are putting their dirty schemes in place. Because if you go to, really, the requirements of the European Union, the requirements of the Venice Commission, they are completely different from that of usurpating the judiciary by the Presidential Authority. What the European Union requires. The European Union clearly requires the removal of the consequences and opportunities of selective justice in Ukraine. Read the proposed bill. What mechanisms are in place to ensure that this requirement is, in fact, the removal of selective justice? After reading it, I did not see a single mechanism at all. Today, everyone admits that the cause of selective justice in Ukraine is actually the effect on the courts by the executive, in fact, the presidential authority. And today we are encouraged to strengthen this influence even further. Will we be able to overcome selective justice? Of course, it will be even bigger in Ukraine. What does the Venice Commission propose? What Does the Venice Commission Require? The only basic requirement of the Venice Commission was to adopt amendments to legislation that would provide completely different principles for the formation of the High Council of Justice. And that's where most of the composition from the High Council of Justice is made up of representatives from the judiciary. To date, we all know that Ukraine's current legislation envisions a mechanism through which, in fact, the Higher Council of Justice and the presence of most of its composition are representatives of the judiciary. So all the speculations that apply to both the requirements of the Venice Commission and the requirements of the European Union are totally speculations, and they are trying to set up mechanisms that are going to be destroyed in general. More. At least some of the consequences of an independent judiciary in Ukraine. As far as the offer is concerned again.
ParlaMint-UA_2013-10-10-m0.u55	Thank you. Are you taking another rule? Please, three minutes. Turn it on.
ParlaMint-UA_2013-10-10-m0.u56	I would like to remind my distinguished colleagues that the current Constitution of Ukraine envisioned a model of the state. And the first chapter of the Constitution of Ukraine, which is called the Constitutional System, contains a principle, a very important democratic principle, which is the principle of the distribution of power to the legislature, to the executive and to the judiciary. The proposed bill proposes to change the status and mandate of the legislative, executive, and judicial authorities. Instead, the proposed bill does not provide for any compensation relating to the mechanism of restraint and counter-aggression. So, on the one hand, functions are transferred, the status of organs in the state is changed, but there is no mechanism of deterrence and opposition, which directly contradicts the principle of the distribution of power to the legislative, executive and court, and so this bill is actually anti-constitutional and it violates the principles of the constitutional system, in fact, the principle provided for in Chapter I of the Constitution. It mentioned a bill that was drafted by the opposition, and it was alleged that, like the President's bill, the bill that proposed the opposition provided that the final signature of the appointment of the judge would be made by the President. Yes, it really is. But I asked the reporters, what happens if the president doesn't sign the decree? Of course, in such a case, a candidate would have no chance of being a judge. The opposition bill foresees that the actual ceremonial functions of the President are passed on to the primary function of assigning the judge and authorizing it to the Supreme Council of Justice. That is, not by decree of the President of the Judges is proposed to be appointed, but by decisions of the High Council of Justice signed by the President. And in the event that it is not signed, this decision will take effect under the signature of the Head of the High Council of Justice. I want to draw attention to one more thing -- we're told that the depoliticization of the judges' election process, that the Supreme Council is giving us some political moment in this process. And please tell me, when the judges are appointed by the President's decree, is this not going to be a political moment of impact on this trial? Today we have a practice where the Supreme Council has a minimum to do with the election process of the judge. Before considering the question of the selection of judges, this question does not even go through a professional committee. The MPs vote for the judges, in fact, blind. I mean, there is no Supreme Council today. What, though, will happen if changes are accepted and proposed? Of course, after the decision of the High Council of Justice, this issue will be dealt with in advance by officials of the President's Administration, and in fact, there will be a final decision, not ceremonially by the President, but, in fact, by officials of the President's Administration, a decision on the fate of the judge. And as a result, I want to summarize. In the case of acceptance.
ParlaMint-UA_2013-10-10-m0.u57	Finish up.
ParlaMint-UA_2013-10-10-m0.u58	In the case of the adoption of this model, which is proposed by the Presidential Administration, we will have, on the one hand, courts that will be completely removed from society, from the citizen, and on the other hand we will have courts that are completely dependent and controlled by the Presidential Authority. Thank you for your attention. Glory to Ukraine!
ParlaMint-UA_2013-10-10-m0.u59	Thank you. Igor Miroshnichenko gives the floor to the national deputy Petrenko.
ParlaMint-UA_2013-10-10-m0.u60	Paul Petrenko. The Fatherland faction. Dear friends, you know, Pythagoras said that the law is the voice of the mind, and the judge is the voice of the law. Unfortunately, this bill, which is proposed by the President's administration, is actually turning the judges into the votes of President Yanukovich and his supporters, who will simply be a slave to follow instructions that will be sent down from the Bank. Sadly, we have lost an independent judicial system to this day. We know that there is a silent agreement between the courts of all levels with valid authority when the current authorities close their eyes on those corrupt decisions that are made by judges against our Ukrainian citizens. And this is a decision that applies to political persecution, this is a decision that applies to the non-payment of pensions, social benefits, this is a decision that applies to the selection of land and property in our citizens. By this law, which we are now offered to accept in the session room, we will actually put the last dot and put the last nail in the grave of our independent judicial system and so - called independent femida. So clearly, we will not support this bill. The opposition really introduced a democratic European law. That law that takes into account most of the requirements of the Venice Commission. That law that creates the real importance of the independence of judges when judges choose an independent Justice Council formed by a judicial body. If the judges were released by the same independent Council of Justice. If only the judges could free the Ukrainian people through the local referendum system. If a judge who made an illegal, criminal decision could bring the community to justice. But some officials from the Presidential Administration are uncomfortable. They find it convenient for them to be able to manage the judicial system from their offices, and it is convenient for the corrupt judge, who has so-called total integrity, to be subordinated to only one person, President Janukovic. We understand why this is being done, we understand that this is being done under the 2015 elections. But we want to encourage the Ukrainian people: understand, under the cover of so-called Euro-Integration Laws, they want to eventually turn those judges into silent slaves of power and give them a preference to make decisions that are now totally illegal, unconstitutional and unconstitutional. We're very clear on a very constructive proposal: let's go back to the joint working group, or the Constitutional Commission, to draft a bill and get all the factions to bring it to Parliament. Only in this way will we be able to at least bring our judicial system closer to the requirements of the European Union. And as for the requirements of the Venice Commission, I want to say that very many of these requirements have not been taken into account, including the so-called distinction between the complete integrity of judges. The Venice Commission says that there should be only functional inviolability in the court, a judge cannot be protected from the law if he is a corrupter, or a briber. Now what the administration is offering.
ParlaMint-UA_2013-10-10-m0.u61	Thank you. The discussion is over. Done. Not one minute, 30 seconds, count, it's still there. I beg you, is there a closing word for the reporter? None. Yes. I'll give you 30 minutes, okay? To whom is the word? Okay. Does the coconspirator have a closing word? Yes. Please turn on Pisarenko's microphone.
ParlaMint-UA_2013-10-10-m0.u62	Dear Vladimir Vasilovich, I wouldn't want to give an assessment of everything that seemed to be here. I only wanted, perhaps while he was speaking, to make an announcement so that the MPs could get together for the vote. Thank you.
ParlaMint-UA_2013-10-10-m0.u63	Thank you. Invite the deputies to the session room of everyone, please. I'm asking for 30 seconds, Victor Chumak. Please.
ParlaMint-UA_2013-10-10-m0.u64	Thank you, Vladimir Vasilovich. Victor Chumak 214 district of Kyiv. Dear colleagues, honourable national deputies, I would like to point out that today we are making changes to the Constitution of Ukraine. I want to remind you all that the other name of the Constitution is called "the Social Agreement." It is a social agreement between society and politicians who in principle exercise authority on behalf of the people. Tell me, have any of the people given us the right to make such changes to the judicial system? Come on, look very well, who did the analysis of this law Center of Reason, he smashed it into the downpour and right, into the downpour and the dust shattered. But I want to say that.
ParlaMint-UA_2013-10-10-m0.u65	Finish up.
ParlaMint-UA_2013-10-10-m0.u66	Even under this sauce, we want to pass a law that cements that negative system of justice and the judicial system that today is credible only in seven percent of Ukrainian citizens. Think about it. They don't trust us. They don't trust us. Who will exercise the right to justice of the Ukrainian people as no courts, and today we simply break it by law.
ParlaMint-UA_2013-10-10-m0.u67	Ladies and gentlemen, I must give you some information on the statement by Sergio Soboljeva, who accused the Supreme Council of registering an alternative project. I'm asking Sergei Soboljeva to listen. According to part nine of article 143 of the Supreme Council’s Rules, alternative laws are submitted to the Supreme Council only 14 days after a bill amending the Constitution of Ukraine has been submitted to the People’s Deputies. Since the bill, the registration number that we are looking at today, 2522a: on amending the Constitution of Ukraine, was handed over to the people's deputies at the plenary meeting on 4 July 2013, and you passed a bill of opposition only in autumn, two months later. So I'm asking you from the rostrum to tell the MPs the truth. I answered you with a line, and there's no line. I'm a replica. What are we going to do? Attention, dear friends! According to part five of article 149 of the Supreme Council of Ukraine Rules and taking into account the conclusion of the Main Committee, I am voting on the draft Decree, I stress, not the law, but the draft Decree (Registration No. 2522a/P1): on the preliminary approval of the bill amending the Constitution of Ukraine on strengthening the guarantees of the independence of judges. For adoption as a basis and as a whole. People's deputies are requested to vote in person. Please vote. [[11:37:12]] For 244 Against - 7, held - 116, did not vote - 43. Decision taken. I'm asking for factions. Region Party - 197, Fatherland - 0, Hit Vitalia Klicka - 0, Freedom - 0, the company - 31, non-fractional - 16. Decision taken. Please turn on the microphone, Mikhail. Please. You've got a minute.
ParlaMint-UA_2013-10-10-m0.u68	Dear Vladimir Vasilovich! There was a non-personal vote: Rudzikowski and a colleague voted in favour of a nearby MP who was not in the hall.
ParlaMint-UA_2013-10-10-m0.u69	Have a seat. Have a seat. Have a seat. Rudzkowski, what did you do there? I asked everyone to vote in person! Rudzkowski, please. We'll figure it out! Let's put it to a vote. Have a seat. Have a seat. And you sit down. As the violations were, I will put to the vote now. Let's go, now. Dear National Deputies! Tell the deputies to be in the hall right now. Ephraim's here! [[B in m in s a l in]] Yes, sit down! I'm asking a question for a vote. Everybody sit down! [[B in m in s a l in]] Ladies and gentlemen, may I have your attention? As they say, we should vote with one hand, not with two. Yeah, right? Voting should be done in person. I would like to vote on the draft Decree (Registration No. 2522a-P1) on the previous approval of the bill amending the Constitution of Ukraine on strengthening the guarantees of the independence of judges for adoption as a basis and as a whole. People's deputies, please vote. Please vote. [[11:43:03]] For 244 [[Applause]] Against 9, held – 115, not voted – 42. Decision taken. Factions: Region Party 196. There will be a serious vote in the daytime. I'm asking everyone to stay in the hall. Skin! "Paternal" is 0, "Vitalia Calla" is 0, "Freedom" is 0, the Company is 31, non-factional is 17. The questions have been considered. Honorable national MPs, very many questions, and we're not. Let's not waste time. I ask you to make a decision: to work today to fully address all issues of the agenda of the session. [[B in m in s a l in]] I'll put it to a vote. Please vote. Don't yell, vote! [[11:44:18]] For 218. [[B in m in s a l in]] Let's go. Factions, factions. Fatherland, Vitaly Call hit and Freedom don't want a full day's work. [[B in m in s a l in]] You asked, didn't you? [[B in m in s a l in]] Let's move on. Listen to me correctly. A draft Law is being considered. Have you calmed down? Two votes -- everybody's happy, first and second. The draft Law (1197 and 1197-1) on Probation Service is under consideration. This is a question we've considered, so get ready and I'll put it to a vote. Dear National Deputies! Attention! I'm betting on a draft bill (No. 1197) on probation services for adoption as a basis. People's deputies, please vote. Opposition, vote! [[B in m in s a l in]] [[11:46:27]] For 141, Against 0, held – 32, not voted – 230. The decision is not taken. The factions. [[B in m in s a l in]] May I have your attention, please? The Regional Party is 0, Fatherland is 58, Vitaly Klicka is 35, Freedom is 34, the Company is 0, non-fractional is 14. I'm betting on a draft bill (number 1197-1) on probation services for adoption as a basis. Please vote. Opposition, vote! [[11:47:26]] For 282, Against 61, held – 15, not voted – 48. Decision taken. The factions. Region Party – 191, Parenting – 41, Hit by Vitalia Klicka – 0, Freedom – 0, Ukrainian Company – 31, non-fractional – 19. A draft Act (No. 1198) on amendments to certain Ukrainian legislative acts (on the humanisation of criminal legislation and the institutional and legal premeditations of the introduction of probation services) is under consideration. I want to give the floor to Victor Sweden. Is there a Victor Sweden? Turn on the microphone. And we'll vote. Let's listen to the MP.
ParlaMint-UA_2013-10-10-m0.u70	Dear Volodymyr Vasilovich, distinguished national deputies! Bill 1198 was part of Bill 1197, which you did not vote on today. This is a bill that envisaged changes to the current legislation of Ukraine in connection with the introduction of the probation service. Since, as I have already said, the Supreme Council has not supported my bill, but the government bill supported, there is absolutely no need to vote now for changes to the law that has not introduced the probation service. So I'm asking you not to vote for him and take it off the table. Thank you.
ParlaMint-UA_2013-10-10-m0.u71	Understand? I put the vote on the ground, as requested, and the author asks not to vote for it. I am voting on draft Act 1198 amending certain Ukrainian legislation (on the humanisation of criminal legislation and on the legal and organisational premeditations of the introduction of the probation service). To be accepted as a basis. Please vote. [[11:50:10]] For-37 Against the-4, held-48, didn't vote 315. The decision is not taken. There's an offer, we've been resting for 30 minutes today to work up to 14 hours without a break. Agreed. Thank you. The draft Law (Registration No. 2476a) amending article 6 of the Ukrainian Act "On the State Budget for Ukraine 2013" (for NAC "Naftogaz Ukraine") is under consideration. Second reading. Please report to the chairman of the committee, Mr. Geller Evgeny Borisovich.
ParlaMint-UA_2013-10-10-m0.u72	Dear Vladimir Vasilovich, distinguished national deputies and invited, the Committee on Budget Affairs prepared a bill of 2476a for the second reading, in accordance with the mandate of the Supreme Council. The bill had 18 proposals, from which the committee supported 5 and rejected 13. The proposals supported by the committee are technical and legal in nature, namely, clarifying the numbering of a new item in line with the current State Budget Act, specifying the conditions for granting State guarantee only in the current year. Some suggestions are not supported by the committee, considering, in particular, this. The number 6 proposal does not correspond to the direction of lending investment projects as defined in article 6, paragraph 1, of the law. The number 7 proposal is not in line with article 1 of the State Budget Act 2013, according to which the budget is approved with the deficit. There is no support for the proposal to exclude the rules on the exemption of Naftogazu from the provision of State guarantees and payment. As a result of the review, the Committee on Budget Affairs adopted the following decision: recommending to the Supreme Council a bill number 2476a to adopt in the second reading and generally as a law in the final edition, as set out by the Committee in a comparative table before the bill. Please support the committee's decision. Thank you for your attention.
ParlaMint-UA_2013-10-10-m0.u73	We're going after the repairs? Yeah?
ParlaMint-UA_2013-10-10-m0.u74	Vote. Vote.
ParlaMint-UA_2013-10-10-m0.u75	we vote, the amendments are rejected. How do we vote? The material needs to be studied. There are some adjustments. They're rejected. They have to be voted for. Amendment number one, national deputy of Yavorowski. Are you insisting? Turn on microphone
ParlaMint-UA_2013-10-10-m0.u76	I insist on this amendment. It is very important, put it to the vote.
ParlaMint-UA_2013-10-10-m0.u77	I'm betting on the vote of amendment number one, the national deputy of Yavorowski, for support. People's deputies, please vote. Yes, please. [[11:53:33]] For-97 The decision is not taken. Amendment 6, People's Deputy Victor Chumak. Are you insisting? You insist. Turn on the microphone.
ParlaMint-UA_2013-10-10-m0.u78	I insist.
ParlaMint-UA_2013-10-10-m0.u79	Please, Victor Chumak. Put it to the vote?
ParlaMint-UA_2013-10-10-m0.u80	Yes.
ParlaMint-UA_2013-10-10-m0.u81	I'll bet on the vote of Amendment 6, National Deputy Chumak. People's deputies, please vote. [[11:54:21]] For-103 The decision is not taken. Amendment 7, People's Deputies of Peace. Are you insisting? No, it's not. Amendment 8, People's Deputy Tears. Turn on the microphone.
ParlaMint-UA_2013-10-10-m0.u82	Respectable citizens of Ukraine, respected national deputies, and the current rule of the Code of Budgets provide that in the case of State guarantees, operators are obliged to provide property or other security for all the obligations granted by the guarantee. The point of my amendment is to bring it into line with the Budget Code. With this bill, the current authorities are trying to give the NAC Naftogaz shareholders a benefit to provide guarantees without property or other collateral. I want to remind you that any loan or loan that a citizen, a natural or a legal person is required to provide such legal, property security. This means that NAC will not pay this state guarantee - and these obligations will be placed on the State budget of Ukraine at the expense of paying taxes on taxpayers. Please vote and support my amendment. Thank you.
ParlaMint-UA_2013-10-10-m0.u83	I'm betting on the vote of Amendment 8 for maintenance. Please vote for the people's deputies. [[11:56:02]] For 109 The decision is not taken. Amendment number nine, People's Deputy of Peace. Turn on the microphone.
ParlaMint-UA_2013-10-10-m0.u84	Vladimir Vasilovich! Thank you for the opportunity. Vladimir Vasilovich, I have a request. This is a very important bill. We're decommissioning a public stock company into a state, i.e. a citizen. I beg you very much, I respectfully refer to the committee's opinion and I respectfully refer to the amendments being taken into account, but we need to hear the opinion of the hall, the opinion of all the national MPs. So the requests, and the corrections you've taken into account still confirm, please, it's very, very important. Thank you.
ParlaMint-UA_2013-10-10-m0.u85	Ladies and gentlemen, let's take a look at all the amendments. If any points and articles are offered to support us, we will return. Let's make nine adjustments, shall we? No, it's not. Amendment 11, National Deputy Golovko. Turn on the microphone of the people's deputy Golovko.
ParlaMint-UA_2013-10-10-m0.u86	Thank you. Head, Fatherland faction. I object to today's debt and the activities of Naftogaz Ukraine being translated into ordinary Ukrainians. Last year, this company loaned 500 million dollars to two unknown companies. So far, this money has not been returned. So I object to the committee's actions regarding the granting of benefits to this company. Thank you.
ParlaMint-UA_2013-10-10-m0.u87	I'm betting on the vote of Amendment 11, People's Deputy Golovko, for support. Please vote. [[11:58:10]] For 112 No correction supported. 12, People's Deputy Solvar. Don't insist. Amendment number 13. The national deputy Yavorowski. Please turn on the microphone.
ParlaMint-UA_2013-10-10-m0.u88	Vladimir Yavorowski, Troastina Dear colleagues, many of you know very well what this is about. It's about keeping the Naftogaz of Ukraine quiet, and it's a good piece of hair. To bring him into bankruptcy, then quietly, for the priceless of him, as we have done many times. This is one of the last objects to be seen. Because of that, all of these are written down, so the guarantees of the state, that is, to get Naftogaz to take some loans, there, and under State guarantees, he can get a bunch of them and go bankrupt. That's why I insist that this very moment be removed where Naftogaz can take large loans under state guarantees and so on. I know you won't support him, and I know why, but I insist you put him to the vote.
ParlaMint-UA_2013-10-10-m0.u89	Please, Amendment 13 shall be put to the vote. People's deputies, please vote. [[11:59:36]] For the 180. Amendment 14. The People's Deputy. Don't insist. 15. People's Deputy Tears. You insist, don't you? No, it's not. Amendment 16. People's MP Mirny. Turn on the microphone.
ParlaMint-UA_2013-10-10-m0.u90	Ladies and gentlemen, I propose to exclude paragraph 3 of Part Four of article 6 on the State Budget of Ukraine because the granting by the Cabinet of Ukraine of the right to set conditions for the granting of State guarantees is contrary to the Regulations of the Budget Code of Ukraine and creates corruption schemes. I would like to point out that we are now children, we are in debt to a public stockholder company. They did not do these debts, nor did they intend to do so. We should by no means do what we do now. I think if a stock company is going to look for ways to pay off the loan, because when they take credit, they have to know exactly how to repay the loan. So the government leaders who are offering to take it are putting state guarantees on our people. Please vote for the amendment. Thank you.
ParlaMint-UA_2013-10-10-m0.u91	I'm betting on the vote of amendment number 16 of the People's MP of Peace. Please vote. [[12:01:24]] For 111 The decision is not taken. Amendment number 15. People's Deputy Tears. Turn on the microphone.
ParlaMint-UA_2013-10-10-m0.u92	The honourable Ukrainian national MPs, respected Ukrainian citizens, once again point out that this bill is contrary to the requirements of the Constitution of Ukraine, the requirements of the Code of Budgets, which stipulate that State guarantees must be made available in the presence of property and other collateral. The point of my amendment is that we have the Budget Code to provide these guarantees and it is therefore appropriate to remove the sentence that the terms and procedures for granting State guarantees are provided in accordance with the order envisaged by the Cabinet of Ministers of Ukraine. I would like to remind you that under the Constitution, Ukraine's budgetary system is formed on the basis of a fair and impartial distribution between citizens and territorial communities. In this case, there is a substantial benefit to one person, while others have to provide insurance, pay interest, and there are very large benefits. So please.
ParlaMint-UA_2013-10-10-m0.u93	Please, Eugene Borisovich.
ParlaMint-UA_2013-10-10-m0.u94	Dear Tetjana Jaroslavovna, distinguished national deputies, according to the law, meets the requirements of article 17, part six, of the Code of Budget, according to which the government is authorized to determine the need for the issuance of property to state - owned entities. So, Auntie Jaroslavna, this is the answer to your question why your amendment was rejected.
ParlaMint-UA_2013-10-10-m0.u95	I'm betting on the vote of amendment 15, People's Deputy Tear. Please vote. [[12:03:38]] For the 180. The decision is not taken. Amendment 17, People's Deputy Griesenka, do you insist? None. 18th National Deputy Yavorowski. Turn on the microphone.
ParlaMint-UA_2013-10-10-m0.u96	Vladimir Yavorowski, Troastina Dear colleagues! I'm continuing the logic that was in my previous speech. I imagine that, after the adoption of this law, they would wipe their hands in the Cabinet of Ministers as they would wipe their hands and Azarov's, or maybe even family members, and so on, because they have a full road to bankruptcy, and then to privatizing a once-rich, luxurious company called Naftogaz Ukraine. I suggest, there's this phrase: "The terms for granting State guarantees are established by the Cabinet of Ministers of Ukraine." I can already imagine the standards that will be laid down when only the Cabinet of Ministers does so. That's why I'm proposing to remove at least a little bit of this law from the privatization of Naftogaz Ukraine to remove these lines. I know you don't vote, but to keep my conscience clean, I insist that you put it to the vote.
ParlaMint-UA_2013-10-10-m0.u97	I'm betting on the vote of Amendment 18, the national deputy of Yavorowski. Please vote. [[12:05:19]] For 109 No correction supported. All the amendments that have been considered have been considered. I want to ask the National Deputies, why do we have committees, if we don't trust them? Let's eliminate 30 committees and all laws will be considered only in Parliament. What is it? Is it a long time before the question is considered? I'm asking the faction leaders: 90 laws today! Don't bother! Can't you hear what I'm saying?Oh, my God! Is it time delay or what is it?Oh, my God! The Rules do not allow all amendments to be voted on as the Peace offering did. There's no such thing. We have committees for that. I am voting on the draft Act (number 2476a) amending article 6 of the Ukrainian Act on the State Budget for Ukraine 2013 (for NAC Naftogaz Ukraine). For adoption in second reading and in general. People's deputies, please vote. [[12:07:10]] For 231 79, held – 5, not voting – 78. Decision taken. The factions. Region Party 187. "Paternity" is 1, "Vitalia Clicka" is 0, "Freedom" is 0, the company is 27, the non-fractional is 16. We agreed to work without interruption. I'm calling it a 12-hour break for 30 minutes. Get some rest. At 12:30, we'll continue.
ParlaMint-UA_2013-10-10-m0.u98	Where's Mr. Rudzkowski? Is it in the hall or not? Mr. Rudzkowski is gone. Ladies and gentlemen, I'd like to make an announcement. As some media reported yesterday that the Ukrainian side did not seem to have participated in the parliamentary cooperation committee between Ukraine and the European Union, I would like to explain to the MPs and the media. On October 9, the working internal council of the European Parliamentary Cooperation Council was held in Strasbourg. This committee was not foreseen by the Ukrainian side. At the same time, in order to ensure the normal work of the Ukrainian delegation, I have signed the Order on the appointment of fellow Ukrainian members of the Committee for Parliamentary Cooperation between Ukraine and the European Union, and co-chairs appointed by Sergey Tihypco and Peter Poroshenko. I informed the President of the European Parliament, Martin Schulz. For a long time, this committee was going to, but they were unable to choose their leaders or their leaders. And I have to go for it. I've informed you. The draft Law No. 0877 is under consideration: on the basis of the development of the Autonomous Republic of Crimea and the specificities of investment activity in its territory. It's a second reading. I invite the first deputy head of the Committee on Industrial and Investment Policy Sergio Alexandrovich Firemark, please. The chairman of the Council of Ministers of Crimea, Anatoly Volodymyrovich, please welcome him to the session room. [[Applause]] Please report.
ParlaMint-UA_2013-10-10-m0.u99	Dear chairman, distinguished national deputies, invited! You will be given a second reading of the Ukrainian Law on the Basics for the Development of the Autonomous Republic of Crimea and the Specificity of the Implementation of Investment Activities in Its Territory (Registration No. 0877), submitted by the Cabinet of Ministers of Ukraine and accepted as the basis on February 21, 2012. The purpose of the bill is to create an enabling environment for the integrated and balanced development of the Autonomous Republic of Crimea, the efficient use of resource potential and investment. In order to draft the bill, a working group was set up in the committee, comprising the Ukrainian National Deputies, representatives of the central executive authorities and the Council of Ministers of the Autonomous Republic of Crimea. The bill has been amended by 71 amendments, of which 38 are taken into account in full or editorial terms. The unaccounted for amendments were invited to the committee meetings and received comprehensive information about the rejection of the amendments they had made. I'm introducing a harmonized version of the bill prepared for second reading, and I'm asking you to accept it as a law as a whole.
ParlaMint-UA_2013-10-10-m0.u100	Do you have everything?
ParlaMint-UA_2013-10-10-m0.u101	Yeah.
ParlaMint-UA_2013-10-10-m0.u102	Let's do some repairs. Amendment 7 of the People's Deputies, and 8 of the People's Deputies. Are you insisting? Don't insist. Amendments 9 and 10 are Dutch, German. Are you insisting? No, it's not. 11th, 12th, Dutch, German. Don't insist. 13, 14 – Dutch, Netec. Agreed. 15, 16 are the same deputies. Don't insist. Let's move on. Yes, accounted for. Amendment 19, 20-Dach, German. Don't you insist? No, it's not. Counted. Yeah, what's next? Amendment number 31. National Deputy Daych, Netecka. Are you insisting? Don't insist. 38, 39. Don't insist. 40, 41. Don't insist. 42, 43. Jaroslav Suhi does not insist. Amendment 52, 53. Are you insisting? No, it's not. 56, 57. Don't insist. 59, 60. Don't insist. Counted. All adjustments are included. Anatoly Volodymyrovich, do you have a minute to tell the deputies? You don't? One thing you can say is to uphold this law. Yeah, right? Do you hear me? The chairman of the Crimea Council asks the Supreme Council to support this law, and I put it to a vote. I'm asking for your attention! Invite MPs. [[B in m in s a l in]] Does the opposition vote? Then I'll put it to a vote. [[B in m in s a l in]] But Oleg Tuggnibok wouldn't have been able to – he wouldn't have voted, and now he's here. Prepared for the vote? All right, I see the opposition wants to vote. So I'm voting on Bill No. 0877: on the basis of the development of the Autonomous Republic of Crimea and the specificity of investing in its territory for adoption on second reading and in general. Please support our Crimea and vote. Please vote. [[12:43:42]] For 244 Against-28, held-27, not voted-84. Decision taken. The factions. Region Party - 163, Fatherland - 39, Vitalia Klicka - 0. And you said you'd vote. Freedom - 0, Company - 26, non-fractional - 16. Anatoly Volodymyrovich, we wish you success. The Supreme Council has supported you.
ParlaMint-UA_2013-10-10-m0.u103	Thank the Supreme Council. Thank you. [[Applause]]
ParlaMint-UA_2013-10-10-m0.u104	The draft Law No. 0856 is under consideration: on the energy efficiency of housing and public buildings. I invite you to report to the head of the Committee on Construction, Urban and Housing and Regional Policy of Spiridon Pavlov Kilinkarov. Please.
ParlaMint-UA_2013-10-10-m0.u105	Dear Chairman, dear colleagues! The Ukrainian Energy Efficiency Act was introduced by the Cabinet of Ministers of Ukraine on 15 May 2012. In view of the suspension of the Supreme Council of Ukraine’s sixth vocation, the consideration of the draft Law was not completed by the final decision of the Supreme Council of Ukraine regarding the bill. At its January 10, 2013, session, on a second reading of this transitional bill, in a new, agreed with the Ministry and a group of international editorial experts, since it is one of the priorities set out in the National Action Plan. During the retraining, 55 amendments have been processed for consideration in the second reading, all taken into account. The main legal administration is a bill that has been drafted with observations, which I want to note is that this project is essentially a framework that lays the groundwork for the already tested constant European practice in this area. If there is any conflict or disagreement in its application, you and I have every opportunity to correct it. The following changes have been made to the bill in preparation for its second reading. First. The terms "optimal micro-climactic conditions", "energy efficiency passport", "energy characteristics of the building", "building with approximately zero energy consumption", which correspond to European energy efficiency directives. The other one. The list of objects that are not subject to this law includes buildings that are used as places for reforming religious organizations, monuments of architectural and cultural heritage, and private auxiliary buildings. It means garages, barns, and so forth. As well as private homes and gardens for which a building passport is issued. Third. Section 4 of the Energy Efficiency Passport of Buildings, as recommended by the Chief Scientific and Scientific Administration, has been reformed, i.e. duplicated parts have been removed and logical articles have been formed. Four. The building's energy efficiency passport has been deleted for 10 years. Fifth. An article on the activities of energy conservation and energy efficiency experts is presented in the new edition, since a certificate of qualification is a document of permissive nature. An article on the rights and obligations of owners and joint owners of buildings in the field of energy efficiency has been deleted as being contrary to the constitutional law of citizens, taking into account the proposals of the Chief Scientific and Scientific Administration. It is estimated that the financing of energy measures is carried out at the expense of owners, co-owners of buildings, public funds, local budgets on the basis of a public-private partnership. Vladimir Vasilovich, I would like to draw your attention personally to the fact that at the last stage of reconciliation, there was an error in the definition of the relevant body for the certification of energy conservation and energy efficiency experts and their introduction into the state register. So this is going to be a Minregion, not a State architectural and building inspection.
ParlaMint-UA_2013-10-10-m0.u106	Finish up.
ParlaMint-UA_2013-10-10-m0.u107	So I ask you, Vladimir Vasilovich, in the final decision on this law, to take into account: in the first part of the second part of article 12 and in the first part of article 13, the necessary words "that ensures the implementation of State policy on the issue of State architectural building control" are replaced by the words "from the formation and implementation of state housing policy and policies in the area of construction, architecture, construction and housing and utility." At its meeting on January 10, this year, the Committee decided to recommend to the Supreme Council of Ukraine the adoption of the draft on second reading and in general as a law taking into account the above amendments. Thank you.
ParlaMint-UA_2013-10-10-m0.u108	Okay. I want to ask you, I approached the Martínk people's deputy and said he had a 19th and 33rd questions. Inform the 19th time the committee voted and what the question is.
ParlaMint-UA_2013-10-10-m0.u109	We'll take a look at the 19th amendment. 19 Amendments. The committee took this amendment into account. It's written in the final edition: "owners. The total area of more than 250 square metres is located from the passport of energy efficiency available to the public." The specified extract shall contain energy efficiency passport data, in addition to recommendations for increasing the energy performance of buildings. This amendment was proposed by Ambassador Saldo. It is discussed on the committee and supported by the amendment made by the national deputy Saldo.
ParlaMint-UA_2013-10-10-m0.u110	How did the committee vote?
ParlaMint-UA_2013-10-10-m0.u111	We voted in favour of taking this amendment into account.
ParlaMint-UA_2013-10-10-m0.u112	He asks for support for this amendment.
ParlaMint-UA_2013-10-10-m0.u113	Let's put it in support if he asks, let's put it in support.
ParlaMint-UA_2013-10-10-m0.u114	Ladies and gentlemen, may I have your attention? National MP Rudzkowski, you won't be able to vote. I wanted to give you my word and you weren't in the hall. Have a seat. I'm asking for your attention! Takes 19 amendments that are accepted by the support committee. People's deputies, please vote. Amendment 19, please vote. [[12:51:08]] For-173 Amendment 19 not supported, not supported. Amendment number 33.
ParlaMint-UA_2013-10-10-m0.u115	Amendment 33 is a sound proposition. Put it on confirmation, this amendment, because there are some issues that can be dealt with ambiguously. So I also ask you to put it in support and not vote in favour of this amendment.
ParlaMint-UA_2013-10-10-m0.u116	I'm betting on amendment number 33 of National Deputy Saldo for confirmation. Please vote for the people's deputies. [[12:52:07]] For-27 Against-36. This amendment is not confirmed. There are no other observations. I'll bet you a vote. May I have your attention, ladies and gentlemen of the nation? I am voting on draft Act No.0856 on the energy efficiency of housing and public buildings for adoption in second reading and in general. People's deputies, please vote. [[12:53:07]] For-188. What are the proposals for deputies? I propose that the draft Law (No. 0856) on the energy efficiency of housing and public buildings be re-readed and sent to the committee. People's deputies, please vote. [[12:54:06]] For 197 The law is rejected. The factions. Party of regions-182, Fatherland-1, Vitaly Klicka 0, Freedom-0, Company-0, non-fractional-14. A draft Law (No. 0857) is under consideration to amend certain laws of Ukraine regarding the characteristics of leases or concessions of facilities in the areas of heating, water supply, and water supply held in municipal property. Reported to the chairman of the Committee on Construction, Spiridon Pavlovich Kilinkarov.
ParlaMint-UA_2013-10-10-m0.u117	Dear Chairman, distinguished national MPs! The draft Law amending certain Ukrainian laws on the characteristics of leases or concessions of facilities in the areas of heating, water supply and water supply, introduced by the Cabinet of Ministers of Ukraine, was adopted as a basis on May 22, 2012. In view of the termination of the Supreme Council’s sixth vocation, the consideration of the draft law was not completed by a final decision. It is worth recalling that the Ukrainian Law on Renting and Concession of Centralized Water and Water Supply Facilities, which is owned by the municipal property that our committee was working on, took effect on 20 November 2010. During its operation, the Ministry of Regional Development, Construction and Housing, as an authorized body, carried out work on its implementation and monitoring, which revealed a number of issues that were also addressed by the project. During a certain period of preparation for consideration in the second reading, there were 21 proposals from legislators, 20 of whom were fully and editorially taken into account and one amendment rejected was the amendment of the Andriewsky People’s Deputy. Since the terms of the established tariffs are defined by Naccommodation, leaving the norm is an unnecessary and unnecessary legal burden. The draft government bill, prepared for the second reading, is aligned with the Ministry and the Coordination Centre for Economic Reform of the President of Ukraine, because it is in the National Plan of Action, and also worked in the General Legal Office, which has led to some observations. Most of the time, however, they cannot be accepted. Yes, the first point is about the leases or concessions that have already been made. To date, five have been put together in just three years. And the adoption of this law will not be followed by a review of the treaties already concluded. Unfortunately, the five - year - olds did not show up. The second observation refers to a rule that does not conflict with legislation, since the city, rural, village head represents the relevant council and signs documents according to its decisions (this is part of article 42, paragraph 14). The third and fourth observations are regarding changes to article 16 of the law in force. It should be noted that they are the main novelty of the project, since they divide the costs, depreciation or own costs of the concessionaire, which it places under the terms of the contract, into various accounts and protects the financial interests of both the territorial community and the concessionaire. You're a pain in the ass. The remark is hard to understand, the fifth observation, because changes apply to the offender for outstanding liabilities or tax debts, i.e., for protection purposes, primarily liquidated enterprises. On June 19, this year, the committee decided to recommend to the Supreme Council of Ukraine to consider a bill to be adopted in a second reading and generally as a law. Please support the committee's decision.
ParlaMint-UA_2013-10-10-m0.u118	There's the 11th Amendment, the Andreyevsky People's Deputy. Are you insisting? No, it's not. There's a proposal from National MP Marcinkov to confirm amendment number two, comment.
ParlaMint-UA_2013-10-10-m0.u119	Amendment number two?
ParlaMint-UA_2013-10-10-m0.u120	Yes, for confirmation.
ParlaMint-UA_2013-10-10-m0.u121	Now. Amendment number 2. This applies to the order of conduct. and the processing of applications. It's about the procedure of the contest, I understand. We've considered this amendment on the committee, it's, it's taken into account. This is an amendment to the Barwinenko People's Chamber, and it's included in this bill. I see no reason to look at this amendment.
ParlaMint-UA_2013-10-10-m0.u122	The National MP requests that the amendment be voted on. May I have your attention, national deputies? You guys finish your talk, there's a vote for the law. All because you can't vote. I'm betting on the vote of Amendment 2, People's Deputies of Barwinenka, for support. Please vote. [[12:59:50]] For 226 Against 39, held – 29, did not vote – 98. Decision taken. The factions. I'm asking for your attention! I'm betting on the vote on draft Law No. 0857. Invite MPs. You're welcome. Now we're going to vote on the continuation of the session. I'll set it up now. I am voting on draft Law No. 0857: Amendments to certain Ukrainian Laws on Renting or Concession of Objects in the Field of Heating, Water Supply, Water Management, and Public Property. For adoption in second reading and in general. People's deputies, please vote. [[13:01:26]] For 240 I'm calling it in. For – 240, against – 46, held – 40, no votes – 67. Decision taken. The factions. Please, the Chechetov People's Deputy.
ParlaMint-UA_2013-10-10-m0.u123	Dear Vladimir Vasilovich! Dear National Deputies! Very many important issues in the agenda for consideration, the request to put to the vote the question of continuing the session until all issues are fully addressed. Thank you.
ParlaMint-UA_2013-10-10-m0.u124	That's a good offer, I think we'll all support it together. I'm betting on the vote on the continuation of the session to the full consideration of today's agenda. People's deputies, please vote. We need to work, lots of questions. Please vote. What kind of violation is this? [[13:02:51]] For 224 He's not, you see! All of it! [[B in m in s a l in]] It's all taken away from itself. 224 against 6, held – 11, not voted – 144. The decision is not taken. People's MP, peace by procedure. All right, let's work.
ParlaMint-UA_2013-10-10-m0.u125	Thank you, Reverend Vladimir Vasilovich! Dear Vladimir Vasilovich, look, I insist on what we should do. And I'm very grateful that you started to make corrections for confirmation, and that's why we see that the room doesn't always support the committee's decision. That's why I'm asking.
ParlaMint-UA_2013-10-10-m0.u126	by factions, as voted. Look!
ParlaMint-UA_2013-10-10-m0.u127	Therefore, the request, Vladimir Vasilovich, by law, to work on the amendments.
ParlaMint-UA_2013-10-10-m0.u128	Please include the factions as they voted for the continuation of the job. [[B in m in s a l in]] Keep your voice down because I can't hear you! Don't scream! [[B in m in s a l in]] We voted for the extension of the job. There you go. The draft Act No. 0881 on the amendment to article 28 of the Ukrainian Act on the State Registration of Real Estate Rights and Their Burdens is under consideration regarding information received by co-owners of a multi-family house. Second reading, I invite you to report to the head of the Economic Policy Committee, Ivanchuk Andriy Vladimirovich. Please.
ParlaMint-UA_2013-10-10-m0.u129	Good afternoon, Vladimir Vasilovich, distinguished national deputies! Bill 0881 is introduced in the second reading. The committee considered the amendments. There was only one amendment to the second reading of Kseniya Lápina. The committee counted it. We sent the table on a second reading, and we ask that the bill be adopted in a second reading and in general. Thank you.
ParlaMint-UA_2013-10-10-m0.u130	Ladies and gentlemen, thank you. I'll bet you a vote. May I have the attention of the people's deputies? [[B in m in s a l in]] Well, I don't know what to do anymore, with you. Some shout, others don't vote. How are we going to do this? [[B in m in s a l in]] I'm only working on the Rules. I am voting on the draft Law (0881) amending article 28 of the Ukrainian Act on State registration of immovable property rights and their burdens (for obtaining information from co-owners of a multi-family building) for adoption in second reading and in general. People's deputies, please vote. [[13:06:32]] For 343 Against - 0, held - 0, not voted - 50. Decision taken. The factions. There are factions. Next. A draft Act (No. 0887) is under consideration to amend some Ukrainian legislation on combating illegal engulfment and seizure of enterprises. It's a very important question. Reported to the Vice-President of the Legislative Security Committee, Vladimir Mikolayovich Olijnik. May I have your attention, please?
ParlaMint-UA_2013-10-10-m0.u131	Dear Volodymyr Vasilovich, dear colleagues! A committee on law enforcement is prepared for consideration in the second reading of the draft Act amending certain Ukrainian legislation on the suppression of illegal occupation and the capture of businesses. The proposed bill is a transitional from the sixth session and was designated as urgent by the President of Ukraine in 2010. Since 2011, the bill has been adopted by the Supreme Council in its first reading. I would like to remind you that the project is aimed at addressing the main important aspects of countering illegal capture and capture of businesses, as well as preventing the use of schemes and methods of illegal capture and capture of enterprises that pose a real threat to our nation's national economic interests. The project proposes to amend the Civil Code, the Master Code, the Criminal Code of Ukraine, the Law of Ukrainian Economic Associations, the State Registration of Legal Persons and Persons of Entrepreneurs, the Recovery of Payables of Debtors or the Recognition of Bankruptcy, Shareholder Associations, and some other legislative acts aimed at preventing illegal takeover and capture of enterprises. During the drafting of the bill, 114 proposals were made in the second reading. 95 of them accounted for in whole or in part, 19 of them rejected. The justification is given in the comparative table. For the stenographer. I would like to take note of the amendments to number 17 and 23 (pages 7 and 8 of the table) introduced by the Ukrainian national deputy Lapina. The table text shows a technical error. In fact, these amendments have been rejected, since previous amendments 15 and 16 have been taken into account, by which article 67 of the GCC has been reprinted. That is, Amendments 17 and 23 should be regarded as rejected. In the light of this, the Committee proposes to the Supreme Council of Ukraine to adopt the bill in second reading and in general as a law of Ukraine. Thank you for your attention.
ParlaMint-UA_2013-10-10-m0.u132	Thank you. Let's go over the amendments. Amendment 24. People's MP Sphinx. 24th Amendment, People's MP Sphenov. Declined. Are you insisting? No, it's not. [[B in m in s a l in]] 3rd? Edited. Please turn on the Voropeyeva microphone.
ParlaMint-UA_2013-10-10-m0.u133	Ladies and gentlemen, I would like to draw your attention to the fact that this bill provides for the introduction of two new articles into the Ukrainian Criminal Code: 206 under the prima badge and 206 with the badge 2. What are you talking about? According to these articles, any person who illegally seizes an enterprise is a raider and may be brought to criminal liability. However, we all know that the rider never acts without a judicial decision in his case. If a raider receives a district court decision in relation to his rights to an enterprise or other, we will be attracting the rightful owner under these articles. That's why I insist and ask you to support the third one.
ParlaMint-UA_2013-10-10-m0.u134	I'm betting on the vote to vote in favour of Amendment 3 of the People's Deputies of Voropeyeva. Please vote. [[13:11:51]] For 234 Correction supported. Now what do we have? 28th People's Deputies, Voropeyeva. Turn on the microphone.
ParlaMint-UA_2013-10-10-m0.u135	It is precisely 28 amendments, my amendment, that I recommend that the Supreme Council reject these two new articles in the Criminal Code of Ukraine. I'll say it again. If we introduce these articles into the Criminal Code of Ukraine, a loving rider in a circuit court in the city of the physical person’s residence has been given a decision that he is a legitimate representative of an enterprise, not only will he be able to own this property, but he will also be able to put a real person in prison. That's why I'm asking you to support my amendment 28.
ParlaMint-UA_2013-10-10-m0.u136	I'm betting on confirmation of amendment number 28 of the national MP Voropeyeva. People's deputies, please vote. [[13:13:36]] For 268. Against 0, held – 9, did not vote – 115. Decision taken. Amendment No. 32 of the People's Deputies of Voropeyeva. Turn on the microphone. Amendment 32. You don't? Don't insist. Amendment number 36. People's MP Voropeyes. Don't insist. 37th National MP Sphenov. Don't insist. 38th National MP Sphenov. Don't insist. 39th People's Deputies, Voropeyev. Don't insist. What's that? Amendment 51, National Deputy Voropeyev. Don't insist. Let's move on. Amendment 67 of the Voropeyeva People's Deputies. Don't insist. What's that? Amendment 71, National MP of Sphenov. Yes. Now. Amendment 81, People's MP Sphenov. No, it's not. 83rd National MP, Voropeyev. Don't insist. 86 Amendment, People’s Deputy Lapina. Don't insist. 95th People's Deputies, Voropeyev. Don't insist. 96th, People's Deputy of Lapin. Don't insist. 105 is the national MP of Laupina. Don't insist. Amendment No. 113, National MP Sphenov, does not insist. We've considered the amendments. I'm asking for a microphone, Oksana Prodan. Yes, sir.
ParlaMint-UA_2013-10-10-m0.u137	Thank you very much. Thank you, Volodymyr Vasilovich, for the opportunity. I'm asking you to make a statement on the grounds that it turns out that, on the basis of one of the amendments in the event of an arrest of any property, it will be implemented whether or not you have brought this decision before the court, whether you have been arrested or not. I ask you to place amendment 15 on confirmation and not vote for it. Thank you.
ParlaMint-UA_2013-10-10-m0.u138	Got it, right? I'll bet you a vote, do you comment on Amendment 15?
ParlaMint-UA_2013-10-10-m0.u139	No, it's not. The committee supported the proposal made by Deputy Voropeyev.
ParlaMint-UA_2013-10-10-m0.u140	I'm betting on amendment 15, People's Deputy Voropeyeva, for support. Please vote. [[13:17:39]] For 224 Correction not supported. The decision is not taken. All of them? I beg of you, National Deputy Shufrich. Please.
ParlaMint-UA_2013-10-10-m0.u141	Thank you. Dear Vladimir Vasilovich, I ask you to put it to a vote, because we didn't have two ballots, and we pushed for it. Even three, even three deputies, had a breakdown in the system. Please put it to the vote.
ParlaMint-UA_2013-10-10-m0.u142	People's Deputies, Oliynik.
ParlaMint-UA_2013-10-10-m0.u143	Dear colleagues, I ask you to put the question to the vote because I did not vote I was just on my way. [[B in m in s a l in]] He was on his way to his workplace from the rostrum. So I'm asking a question, please put it to a vote.
ParlaMint-UA_2013-10-10-m0.u144	To whom is the word? [[B in m in s a l in]] A word for Rosemary. And we'll figure it out.
ParlaMint-UA_2013-10-10-m0.u145	Dear colleagues, if we come to this absurdity right now. So we're going to start voting every two minutes that someone didn't run in, someone ran in. And when there's such a general reason that someone there didn't vote, the three of us don't vote, it's ridiculous at all. Therefore, we strongly insist that the regulations of the Supreme Council of Ukraine be preserved. We didn't make it. That's your problem. As for the continuation of today’s day, there was a situation where our listeners would know. Today, there is no social bill on the agenda of meetings of the Supreme Council, and today all the bills are directed at a wastebasket, including the lands that want to extend the regions today. So as long as they're dealing with the derby today, you won't have any opposition to your stuff.
ParlaMint-UA_2013-10-10-m0.u146	Anna Herman, please.
ParlaMint-UA_2013-10-10-m0.u147	In order for Ukraine to sign an association with the European Union, some red shirts are not enough, it is necessary to work. And when technical failure is purely technical, but the MPs sit in their seats and push the buttons and we ask you to vote, your opposition to this equally means the resistance to the process of harmony and constructive work in Parliament. [[B in m in s a l in]]
ParlaMint-UA_2013-10-10-m0.u148	You've heard, distinguished national MPs, different thoughts. I can't put a vote on this, but I'll put it back on the vote and I'll put it on the Supreme Council. I'm betting on the vote to return to the vote under the Law (0887), on the amendment. Please vote. [[13:21:11]] For 236 Decision taken. The Supreme Council has decided to return to this vote. What kind of violations? There's no breach. That's why I'm putting to the vote Amendment 15, People's MP Voropeyeva, for support. Please vote. No screaming, it's okay. Please vote. [[13:21:53]] For 234 Correction supported. We've considered all the amendments. Not "no-no," but "yes." We voted on all the amendments. I'm voting on the draft law. The law will be considered, and I will give you my word. I would like to vote on the draft Act (No. 0887) amending some of Ukraine's legislative acts to combat illegal takeover and take-over of enterprises (for adoption in the second reading and in general). People's deputies, please vote. [[13:22:59]] For 241, against 33, held-42, did not vote-77. Decision taken. The factions. The draft Law (No. 0972) amending article 4 is under consideration. You know, let's not waste time! Well, why are we wasting our time? Well, we're going to work and adopt laws, dear friends! on the introduction to article 4 of the Ukrainian Law on Financial Services and Public Regulation of Financial Services Markets (for financial services). One Alexander Josephovich, head of the Committee on Finance and Banking. Please.
ParlaMint-UA_2013-10-10-m0.u149	Dear Vladimir Vasilovich, a respected colleague, the bill expands and refines the list of financial services. There is also a ban on the provision of services that are not included in this list. Instead, government financial regulators are invited to make decisions on the eligibility of certain financial transactions to certain types of financial services. Why is this necessary? First of all, there's a need where the regulator can't do anything about pseudo-companies that provide pseudo-financial services, like MMM or Canckapital. Since the law, and then the authority of the Nazcomfin Service, does not extend to these parts, the regulator can't do anything with them -- and they continue to deceive citizens. In the comparative table to the second reading, there are three amendments that are fully considered. In view of what has been said, the Finance and Banking Committee of March 19 has adopted a decision recommending the adoption of the draft law on second reading and in general. Please be supportive. Thank you.
ParlaMint-UA_2013-10-10-m0.u150	There is no reference to the law. So I'm asking you to prepare the people's deputies for the vote. Please. I am voting on draft Act No. 0972 amending article 4 of the Ukrainian Law on Financial Services and Public Regulation of Financial Services Markets (as regards financial services) for adoption on second reading and as a whole. People's deputies, please vote. [[13:26:00]] For 240 Against – 1, held – 78, did not vote – 74. Decision taken. I'm going to refer to Sergei Katsuba: I'm going to keep an eye on you so you can vote with one card and one hand, okay? As soon as I see it, I'll be talking to the whole thing. Do you have a deal? Here we go to the Ukrainian Act No. 2313: "On Supplements to the Ukrainian Law on State Assistance to Families with Children" on reducing the number of documents for State aid at birth" with proposals by the President of Ukraine. I invite you to report to President Yuri Romanović Miroshnick. Please.
ParlaMint-UA_2013-10-10-m0.u151	Thank you, Vladimir Vasilovich! Dear voters, dear colleagues! The Act on Amendments to the Ukrainian Law on State Assistance to Families with Children, adopted by the Supreme Council on 16 April 2013 on reducing the number of documents for State aid at birth (registration 2313), unfortunately, cannot be signed by the President of Ukraine, although the President, as you know, pays great attention to supporting children and simplifying those mechanisms that allow the State to help children. At the same time, in some of his moments, he violates the Constitution of Ukraine. The President is drawing our attention to the points where the Constitution as the Basic Law of our country is violated, and he suggests that we correct these errors so that this law becomes effective as soon as possible. Among such violations of the Constitution, the President cites several of them, and I will quote them to you. First of all, the law establishes the name of the central executive authority, namely: the State Migration Service -- and the issue of the existence of its territorial organs -- and their mission is to register and live with the child. But according to article 106 of the Constitution of Ukraine, the solution to the question of the creation or liquidation of the central authority of the executive, the need for the establishment of territorial bodies belongs to the exclusive competence of the President of Ukraine, not to the Supreme Council of Ukraine. What's more, as you know, with administrative reform, we've moved away from using our own names of the central executive authorities, so that the President can give these names by his decrees when either the central executive authorities themselves, or their territorial units, are formed. Secondly, the Head of State is not supported by the mechanism for directing the labour and social protection of the population to the territorial authority of the State Migration Service for the registration and residence of the child indicated by the person seeking assistance. The registration authority has the right to register the place of residence of a natural person in the event of submission by a natural person or his legal representative of the documents defined by the law. Thirdly, it is not supported by the President that the responsible labour and social protection body decides not later than 10 days after the application is made. But according to the Law on State Aid to Families with Children, the necessary documents are considered by the body that appoints and makes payments to the State. It is a questionable possibility to collect all the necessary information within a 10-day period, since the lack of a single data exchange system between the central executive authorities and the stated standards do not comply with the rules of the Budget Code, which may lead to additional material, labour and financial costs. In this connection, the President made a number of suggestions to the Supreme Council that were properly formulated. I think you and I are about to vote for them -- and we're going to give families and children the opportunity to reduce the number of documents they need to get the support they deserve from the state. The President of Ukraine calls on you to work as closely as possible to help our children. Thank you for your attention and ready to answer the questions, if any.
ParlaMint-UA_2013-10-10-m0.u152	No questions, I can't see. Have a seat. Why don't we vote for the support of the children and for the support of the President? [[B in m in s a l in]] I invite you to report to the deputy head of the Committee on Family, Youth Policy, and Sports, Alexander Andryovich the Jury.
ParlaMint-UA_2013-10-10-m0.u153	The Honourable Chief, Honorary Fellows, the Committee on Family, Youth Policy, Sport and Tourism at its meeting on June 18, 2013, reviewed the proposals of the President of Ukraine to the Ukrainian Law on Supplements to the Ukrainian Law on State Assistance to Families with Children, namely, to reduce the number of documents for State aid at the birth of a child, which was adopted by the Supreme Council of Ukraine on April 16, 2013. All the proposals made by the President of Ukraine at the committee meeting were taken into account, and you were able to get to know them in a comparative table. The main scientific and expert administration of the Supreme Council of Ukraine, in its conclusion, noted that taking into account the proposals of the President of Ukraine will contribute to improving the quality and effectiveness of the Ukrainian Law that we are considering today. And so the committee's proposal was to unanimously support the proposals and adopt the relevant bill, the idea of which is to allow young families to deal with the concerns that arise immediately after the birth of the child, and to collect the necessary documents to be translated into the shoulders of the officials who receive the wages for it. Thank you for your attention.
ParlaMint-UA_2013-10-10-m0.u154	Question to whom? Now Rosenko says that the amendments, there are no questions, and the amendments are to be considered. [[B in m in s a l in]] I'm asking you to turn on the microphone for the people's deputy Rosenk.
ParlaMint-UA_2013-10-10-m0.u155	Paul Rosenco, Vitaly Caller's Faction. By the Rules, we must go through every correction. And I want you to listen to me carefully. Because, indeed, the president's technical corrections can be supported. What did we do with this law, which was adopted perfectly by the Supreme Council of Ukraine? We forced not the people, not the families, to gather the help that officials demand from them, but the officials to gather help. And the third amendment. But as long as you get help to understand, state social assistance is not available. And so we did the right thing by setting a ten-day deadline for officials to collect these manuals. And if we're taking down these 10 days now, at the request of the President, we're going to have a collapse that officials are going to be collecting these documents for a year, two, three, five. That's why I didn't. That's why I love you.
ParlaMint-UA_2013-10-10-m0.u156	Finish up.
ParlaMint-UA_2013-10-10-m0.u157	Please. The president has been seriously framed by someone who has made this amendment. Unfortunately, the committee did not fully understand either. We cannot record the deadline, or our families with children will never receive this help. So I propose that the President's proposal be confirmed, only 3 amendments, and not supported.
ParlaMint-UA_2013-10-10-m0.u158	Ladies and gentlemen, there are four amendments to the President. We must vote for them. So I'm going to put four amendments to the vote and I'm going to pass the law. Puts the vote to the vote. Ladies and gentlemen, I ask you to leave in the corner in your seats, because there will be a vote. Please sit down. I would like to vote on Amendment 1 of the President of Ukraine for support. Please vote. People's deputies, please vote. [[13:36:57]] For 305, Against – 0 held – 3, not voted – 83. Decision taken. The factions. Correction supported. Amendment 2 of the President of Ukraine is supported. People's deputies, please vote. [[13:37:26]] For-300 Correction supported. The factions. A vote is taken on Amendment 3 of the President of Ukraine for support. Please vote. [[13:37:58]] For 234 Decision taken. The factions. Amendment 4 of the President of Ukraine is supported. Please vote. [[13:38:28]] For 258. Decision taken. The factions. I'm betting on the voting bill of Ukraine -- I'm asking for the attention of the national MPs! – No. 2313: "To make additions to the Ukrainian Law on State Aid to Families with Children" on reducing the number of documents to receive State aid at the birth of a child" with proposals by the President of Ukraine for adoption in general, taking into account the proposals made by the President of Ukraine. People's deputies, please vote. [[13:39:26]] For 243 Against 0, held-45, not voted-90. Decision taken. The factions. Region Party 192, Fatherland - 1, Vitalia Klitka - 0, Freedom - 0, Company - 31, non-fractional - 19. Draft Act No. 2916 on Amendments to Article 9 of the Ukrainian Law on State Support for Agriculture of Ukraine (to improve the activities of the Agrarian Fund) is under consideration. Offers are under reduced procedure. People's deputies please identify themselves. Here comes the vote. [[13:40:26]] For 201 Decision taken. I invite you to report to the head of the Committee on Agricultural Policy, the Kings, for a long time, to leave. Oleg Anatolyevich of the Kings, I invite you. Please. The break will be later, at 13:15 will be, I'll continue, at 14:15. I've got 15 minutes to keep working.
ParlaMint-UA_2013-10-10-m0.u159	Dear Lord Chairman, distinguished national MPs! You will be mindful of the draft Ukrainian Act amending the Ukrainian Code of Land. Deputies, distinguished members of Parliament! You have before you a bill on the change in the status of the Ukrainian Agrarian Fund. The Ukrainian Agrarian Fund is now a State structure. And according to the legislation in force, the budget that the Agrarian Fund receives, benefits for the goods sold, all the money the Agrarian Fund has to put into the budget and from the beginning of the year stand with an extended hand, to request the rural purchase budget. You know that this year there is a good situation in the grain market and a unique harvest. Today, wheat is sold for 1,400 greaves for peasants. And if peasants used to say that a disaster when there is no crop, today they say that a disaster when the harvest is very good. And the Agrarian Fund, unfortunately, does not have enough funds because there are some funding problems to buy grain from farmers. And we don't know what the harvest will be next year. Therefore, there is now a whole regulatory framework, and there is a Cabinet of Ministers decree on the establishment of the Agrarian Fund as a shareholder society. And we have to adopt a law in order to.
ParlaMint-UA_2013-10-10-m0.u160	Finish up.
ParlaMint-UA_2013-10-10-m0.u161	And we must adopt legislation to de facto de jure, create a stock society that can release securities, create its own budget and work on the market, as companies in Australia, Canada and many other foreign countries do. The Committee supported the first reading. Please support everyone on first reading. Thank you.
ParlaMint-UA_2013-10-10-m0.u162	Thank you. Have a seat. Have a seat. There's no question. It's a short-circuit procedure. I ask you, Head of the Agrarian Policy and Land Relations Committee, Gregory Mikolayovich Kaletnik. Speak in national language so that we can hear the MPs for what we are going to vote for.
ParlaMint-UA_2013-10-10-m0.u163	Dear Volodymyr Vasilovich, distinguished colleagues of the national MPs! You will be mindful of the draft Ukrainian Act amending some of Ukraine’s legislative acts (for the activities of the Agrarian Foundation), introduced by the Royal People’s Deputy. The project proposes to change the status of the Agrarian Fund from a budget institution to a public stock company, as well as to establish that the functions of managing corporate rights belonging to the State in the statutory capital of the Agrarian Fund are carried out by the Cabinet of Ministers of Ukraine, the Executive Authority, the Ministry of Agriculture Policy and Food of Ukraine. The main scientific and expert administration of the Supreme Council's apparatus concluded that the draft Ukrainian Act amending certain laws, legislative acts of Ukraine (for the activities of the Agrarian Fund) could be adopted on the basis of the following considerations and proposals. After a heated discussion, members of the committee decided to support the bill and recommend that the Supreme Council of Ukraine accept it as a basis. Thank you for your attention.
ParlaMint-UA_2013-10-10-m0.u164	Have a seat. Do you want to talk about it? I'm asking you to sign up for factions as it is. It says here. Yank National MP, Freedom Union.
ParlaMint-UA_2013-10-10-m0.u165	Please hand over Igor Sabia.
ParlaMint-UA_2013-10-10-m0.u166	Pass it on, please. You're preventing me from working.
ParlaMint-UA_2013-10-10-m0.u167	Igor Sabiy, All-Ukrainian Freedom Union, 189 constituency, Hmelnicka District. Well, first of all, Mr. Head, if you're proposing a shorter procedure, why are you allowing the reporter to speak for three minutes, which is not in the national language? Second of all, it's about the bill itself. Members of the "Freedom" All-Ukrainian Union did not support him on a committee to consider this bill. Why? Because there's actually an attempt to privatize the Agrarian Fund just as it was done with Hlybinwestbud. First there's a stockholder company project, then these shares, I'm sorry, public stock companies, then these shares can be sold. The very philosophy of the Agrarian Foundation is being destroyed, which should guarantee stability on the reef of agricultural produce and food. I have a question for the drafters. How can you get profits, how can you do interventions on the agricultural market, in order to knock down the price if in such a case the Agrarian Fund is forced to sell at lower prices than market prices? We believe that such strategic state-owned enterprises should by no means be privatized, so the All-Ukrainian Freedom Union will vote against this bill. Glory to Ukraine!
ParlaMint-UA_2013-10-10-m0.u168	I'm asking you, the Vitalia Klitschka faction, Victor Pinzenic, please.
ParlaMint-UA_2013-10-10-m0.u169	Dear Volodymyr Vasilovich, distinguished national deputies! The law would seem to be very simple. It envisions the abolition of the status of the budgetary institution with the Agrarian Fund and its conversion into a public stock company, that is to say, the transformation of it into a commercial institution with a view to earning revenue. In this regard, I want to highlight two fundamental points. First. The Act provides for the Agrarian Fund to produce and implement price policies in the agricultural market. Ask yourself a very simple question. Does a commercial institution have the right to make money, to set prices, or to regulate prices? That's nonsense, that's the first problem. You could turn it into an agrarian institution that buys and sells grain. But the problem is in a tool that the country still needs. The agrarian fund has a function of influencing prices, and its goal is not to buy and sell grain, which is a tool that allows prices to be influenced. And that means that this institution can have damage, and that's perfectly normal: when prices go up, it sells grain when prices go up. On the contrary, when prices go down -- he buys grain when prices go down -- he sells grain. Its functions are very similar to that of the National Bank of Ukraine, which has no right to make money, its task is to influence prices through the purchasing tool. In this regard, I hope that no thinker will support the commercialization of this State Institute.
ParlaMint-UA_2013-10-10-m0.u170	Thank you. Faction of the Ukrainian Company, Simonenko Peter Mikolaiovich. Please.
ParlaMint-UA_2013-10-10-m0.u171	Dear colleagues, I reiterate what is the point of the question that we are discussing: we are discussing the future fate of our village. And that's the result of what happened 20 years ago when the village was demolished. They screamed as if colgs and radospas were evil for the village. They destroyed the Colgs and the Radospas! Where, then, is your welfare? You've ruined what's at the heart of our country's big-scale production, which is the basis for the rise and the new gains for the state. The organization was destroyed. Next: Reprocessing, or interlocking, was destroyed, and there was all that was being supplied to the markets. Next: Price policy. The money was used for peasants, and the heads of the kolgos will now confirm that they bought money. The oil and oil materials for the coins were supplied, the mineral fertilizers for the coins were supplied to the village. Next: 99 percent of the farms and raspberries were profitable, and today the whole village is in the middle of a loss. And these altruists came, and they say this is a wasteful village. Then why are you sitting on it? Next: a system of elevators and grain storage facilities in private hands today And you just strangled the peasant! That's all in your hands, ladies or heels! Next. When it comes to the price, they call it 1,400 dollars, and you sell over the border for almost 2,000 dollars. 500 bucks a ton of every grain! You've never been out in the field, air, so let's say, you just breathe in the landings when you sigh or you respond positively and you put 500 dollars in your pocket. So, in order not to be said here, this law will be passed or not adopted, the main thing today is to urgently change the state's policies regarding the agricultural sector and the support of a real peasant who owns the pie. This structure will or will not be, the peasants will suffer equally, because the wrongly chosen reform system is relative to the agricultural sector. Thank you.
ParlaMint-UA_2013-10-10-m0.u172	Please, faction of the Party of the Regions, National Deputy of Chechtov Mikhailo Vasilovich.
ParlaMint-UA_2013-10-10-m0.u173	Dear Vladimir Vasilovich, distinguished national MPs, has now come to the fore about what the past orange authorities have completely destroyed the village. It is, indeed, it has destroyed, but our authority has come to raise the village. To this end, it is proposed that this law, which proposes to change the status of the agrarian fund from the budget institution to the public equity company, and to establish that the functions of managing corporate rights belonging to the State in the statutory capital of the agrarian fund are carried out by the competent office of the Ministers of Ukraine of the executive branch. I think if we support the government now when we adopt this bill, it will enable us all to make our contribution to the Ukrainian agri-industrial complex. Thank you.
ParlaMint-UA_2013-10-10-m0.u174	All those who wanted to speak. From Fatherland, please, Sergey Sobolev.
ParlaMint-UA_2013-10-10-m0.u175	Dear colleagues, we have two options: whether to turn the administration of the President and the Cabinet of Ministers into a public stock company and go through the path that Hlybbudinvest, Dereserve, or eventually we stop the plague that is now. When my predecessor tells us how Janukovic, as Prime Minister in the orange government, destroyed the village, I think everyone remembers this: when additional VAT was introduced, when additional taxes were actually introduced for those who gave meat and milk and how it ended. So we only have one choice. If the actual privatisation of the Agrarian Fund is now voted on, it will mean that the State has no value in managing price policy at all. So our faction decided to vote against it. Thank you.
ParlaMint-UA_2013-10-10-m0.u176	Thank you. Everyone who wants to make a statement on this issue, I'll give it to you after the decision is made. May I have your attention, ladies and gentlemen of the nation? You're obstructing your work. Go ahead and grab it! Dear National Deputies! Please prepare for the vote. You're obstructing the work of the people's deputies! I'm voting on draft Act No. 2916: amending article 9 of the Ukrainian Law on State Support for Agriculture of Ukraine to improve the activity of the Agrarian Fund as a basis. People's deputies, please vote. [[13:56:02]] For 222 Against 92, held – 1, not voted – 69. The decision is not taken. That's why there's an offer. The factions. There is an offer to return to the committee for re-reading. Understand? I'll bet you a vote, turn Bill 2916 back to the committee for your first reading. Please vote. [[13:56:58]] For 231 88, held - 3, not voted - 61. Decision taken. The factions. I see you're all tired, so I'm calling the morning session closed. At 16 o'clock, we'll continue our session. Thanks for the job.
