ParlaMint-UA_2013-06-04-m0.u1	Good morning, distinguished national deputies, invited guests of the Supreme Council of Ukraine! People's deputies, please prepare for registration. Turn on the "Race" system. [[10:03:56]] A total of 376 national deputies were registered. The morning session of the Supreme Council of Ukraine is open. Ladies and gentlemen, today is the birthday of National Deputy Labazuk Sergey Petrovich and Mootka Igor Fedorovich. Let us congratulate them on their birthdays and wish them success! [[Applause]] According to article 25 of the Rules on Tuesday, we have 30 minutes to make statements by authorized members of the MPs. [[Applause]] We have 30 minutes for the presentations of authorized MPs with proposals, announcements, statements and messages. Therefore, I ask the factions to sign up for the performance. The speech is given to the representative of the Party of the Regions. Gorokhov.
ParlaMint-UA_2013-06-04-m0.u2	Please pass the word to Tigypto, colleague of Tigypto.
ParlaMint-UA_2013-06-04-m0.u3	National Deputy Tihypco. Six minutes, please.
ParlaMint-UA_2013-06-04-m0.u4	Dear Mr. Head, ladies and gentlemen! If we make a self - critical analysis of our work after our election, we must recognize that there was little constructive work in our work. And people in our room understand that we needed time to fit in, as people say, with a view to changing certain procedures. But that is by no means understandable to our voters. What's more, if you look at the situation that's happening in the country that's happening in the world. Look and listen only to experts from the World Bank. The world economy will grow by 2.4 percent this year. That year, the increase was 2.5 percent. The economy of the European Union has been falling for almost a third year, and this year, what the World Bank predicts is going to fall 0.1 percent. Russian forecasts are worsening, from 3.9 percent to 3.6 percent. And these are our main markets. And the question is, what would we need to focus on to change the situation for the better? I think, first of all, we should all think together about how to improve the investment climate, first of all for small and medium-sized businesses. How could we arrange this work? I think we already have a good example when we were working on improving the visa regime when we passed the relevant laws. I remind you, when we started to consider only these laws, no faction was almost ready to vote for at least one of these laws. In the end, we set up a joint working group, passed all the bills after they were done, with the virtual signatures of four factions, and in the end, in the five laws that we worked on were passed by 300 votes and more. I think that's about the same mechanism that we could set up now in the work of the Supreme Council. There is no need to consider all laws. Those who find support in the committee, those who vote for all factions, could go on their own. Anything else we can work closely and take to the hall. I'm sure we could find support here. We could break our jobs in two directions. Quick steps are what our economy needs today very quickly and structural reforms that our economy needed, and for which we would spend enough time. I'm sure we'd find a lot of common ideas and common ground here. Nobody likes what happens to the controlling organizations that have practically murdered our business today. Nobody's dealing with licenses and permits that go beyond what our economy needs. No one likes the raids, which unfortunately continue today, and which we should stop together because of legislative decisions. Nobody likes the fact that strategic industries like IT, for example, such as agriculture today work without the proper support of the state and are well regulated. I think that's what entrepreneurs expect. And in the end, our people are waiting. Because without these changes, finding new jobs, finding money to raise social standards, we can't. Dear colleagues, there are many people in this room who have been working on these problems for quite some time. Those who made decisions that worked a lot less than a hundred percent. And someone might have a certain skepticism. But I don't think we have a way out today. When things get worse in the world, we have to make conditions in our country for our economy to grow. And I think that if we can unite here, we can change the situation for the better. Thank you for your attention.
ParlaMint-UA_2013-06-04-m0.u5	The Fatherland faction, National Deputy Catherinechuk. Please, Jacenjuk Arseny Petrovich.
ParlaMint-UA_2013-06-04-m0.u6	Mr. Head, members of the Ukrainian Parliament! Three who the united opposition would like to bring to the Ukrainian people. The first is the choice of Ukraine, I'm talking about geopolitical choice. In accordance with the Law on the Fundamentals of Ukraine's Internal and Foreign Policy, our nation should become a member of the European Union. The people of Ukraine want Ukraine to be part of Europe. The people of Ukraine want European values to be the values of every Ukrainian citizen. That is why the people of Ukraine demand that the agreement in Vilnius between Ukraine and the European Union be signed. And for that, Victor Janukovic and his Administration must do their utmost to have our European partners sign the agreement. Including the release of Julia Timoshenko. Including reforming the public prosecutor's office. And that includes solving the issue of holding elections in five districts. But Victor Janukovic has commissioned Prime Minister Azarov to go to the Customs Union and sign an unclear document. In particular, I would like to point out that this document was signed by Azarov, not on behalf of the Cabinet of Ministers of Ukraine, to which he has authority, and this is a document signed on behalf of the Ukrainian State, as indicated in the text of this paper. That is why we demand that the President of Ukraine publish directives on the basis of which the Prime Minister of Ukraine has signed a document that is contrary to the Law on the Fundamentals of Internal and External Policy and which brings Ukraine back into the dark Soviet past. We demand that the Prime Minister of Ukraine do not sign documents that provide for Ukraine to refrain from actions and statements that are contrary to the interests of the Customs and Eurasian Union. Although neither the Mint nor the Eurasian Union made such commitments. We demand the adoption in the Parliament of the Ukrainian Act of Amendments to the Law "Roro Basics of Internal and External Policy", where it is clear that we are only going to the European Union and that membership in the Customs Union or any other international or national formation is impossible. We're not going to the USSR -- we're going to the European Union. The second is that of the elections, and this is one of the requirements before us. The Party of Regions is trying to enforce a law under which it will remain the right of the courts to deprive Ukrainian national deputies of their mandates, irrespective of the will of the Ukrainians, by rulings of the courts under the control of President Janukovic. And so that this election will take place on August 18th of this year. This is about five districts where the Central Electoral Commission, which is controlled by Viktor Yanukovic, decided to steal five mandates from the Ukrainian people's deputies. We insist that a joint bill be adopted, which has already been drafted and drafted, and on the basis of this bill, the elections should take place on October 27th. Then, when political activity begins, when we can invite foreign observers, when we can provide a transparent and fair count of votes. In particular, I would like to point out yesterday's action by Viktor Yanukovic regarding the change of head of the Central Electoral Commission and the submission of a new person. We know that Victor Yanukovich's Administration is developing a scenario, such as losing the election of the President of Ukraine to remain in power. In this scenario, the main task is to finally capture the Central Electoral Commission, and they have experience in 2004. It was when the people of Ukraine voted against Viktor Yanukovic, but the Central Election Commission recognized him as the winner of the presidential election. That's not going to happen in 2015. We make it clear that in Ukraine, the Central Electoral Commission Act should be amended immediately, a changed order for the formation of the Central Electoral Commission. Each faction should have one representative in the Central Electoral Commission and one representative should be delegated from non-factional. Such changes in the TFTC should take place before the election of the President of Ukraine and ensure fair elections, not forging the election and retaining the President in power, regardless of the fact that he loses these elections. And he's not going to be able to keep himself in the President's chair. So our requirement is to adopt the law and vote on the members of the Central Electoral Commission under the new law. And the third is about the economy. We hear a lot about the party of power fighting for the economy, fighting only for their own economy and for their own pockets. According to a report by the Ministry of Finance, the government budget deficit in Ukraine has quadrupled over the past four months, compared with the same figures last year. This government lives only on borrowed funds, which it borrowed 60 billion dollars in five months. And this is because the growth of the Ukrainian economy is zero percent. We require the government to submit a programme of actions to the Cabinet of Ministers of Ukraine. What will this government do specifically for the Ukrainians? Where the laws on pension increases, wages, job creation.
ParlaMint-UA_2013-06-04-m0.u7	Six minutes out, Arsenius Petrovich. Finish up. I'm asking everyone, six minutes enough. Please.
ParlaMint-UA_2013-06-04-m0.u8	Where are the laws on raising social standards, pensions, wages and job creation? We demand government and a programme of action here for Ukraine, not for the Party of Regions. Thank you for your attention.
ParlaMint-UA_2013-06-04-m0.u9	Please, the faction of the Ukrainian Company, Simonenko Peter Mikolaiovich.
ParlaMint-UA_2013-06-04-m0.u10	Respectable Ukrainian citizens, respected colleagues, in a climate of total globalization, we want to do so or not, the key players in the world are, above all, different inter-State alliances. Every nation seeks to unite within those alliances that are most responsive to its economic and cultural interests, historically natural and spiritually close. From our point of view, and the Company has always spoken directly and openly about this, the Customs Union is such a union for Ukraine at this stage, and we therefore welcome the memorandum signed on 31 May on deepening the interaction between Ukraine and the Eurasian Economic Commission for Ukraine and consider it the first step towards a full-fledged agreement on accession to the Customs Union with Belarus, Kazakhstan and Russia. However, the Company requires the authorities to give a clear and clear answer, meaning and purpose of Ukraine's participation in the Customs Union as an observer. Would it not be true that this is a new phase of the premeditated policy of multilateralism, which has resulted in Ukraine having been in the middle of its political divide for two decades? For its part, the Company openly declares and consistently reaffirms its commitment to the strategic Euro-Asian partnership and calls for the cessation of any political speculation on this subject and for the decision to hold a full-fledged referendum in Ukraine on Ukraine's accession to the Customs Union. Let the people decide for themselves that it is closer to him: to be a pasture in the EU's most fragile seams or to be a full, equal partner in the Eurasian Union, to participate actively in the establishment of a new geopolitical centre of influence with all the socio-economic benefits arising therefrom. For the Ukrainian producer and for the Ukrainian people, we must answer these questions. Since these political shamans lead Ukraine to the European Union, it is obvious that they are leading to the European Union through Africa. Let the people decide that it is closer to them: our traditional, cultural and spiritual values, the future of our children or the so-called democratic values that we can talk about very much. And the people of Ukraine will give their word in a referendum. We, the communists, have been categorically opposed to privatizing the facilities of one of the world's largest gas transport systems, the Ukrainian GTS, which has recently been discussed very frequently in Ukraine's policies. And we, of course, are today communists in favour of establishing a gas consortium with the Russian Federation. We Communists have warned that corruption privatization and the relentless greed of the oligarchic bourgeoisie have brought Ukraine's economy today and in the social sphere to virtually all the economy and social spheres breathe in ladan. Today, between 30 and 40 per cent of the population of Ukraine are estimated to live in so-called depressed cities, which is not much less than 15 to 18 million people. Cities are not the only ones to treat the whole region in a time of depression. Here are some fresh and vivid examples of effective oligarchic management. Lisicansk: 105,000 people cannot be found in a city with a population of 105,000. There's a resinotech factory. There's 8,000 people on the street. The soda plant, which produced the best soda in Europe, is exposed to the foundation. The rare gas plant stands, there is a factory of technical tissues, a milk plant, a meat-combination plant, a bread plant, a refrigeration unit and a food-producing plant, a stopped refinery. How do people live? I would like to emphasize once again that all of this has been built by the Communists for the people of Ukraine in the city of Lisicansk. Or a second example: Crimson. Speaking of which, my respectable colleagues, I hope everyone will know who was kissing the Hindus when they were selling the Krivorostal. Remember who kissed the Hindu as a whole by selling the pearl of the Ukrainian economy. Thus, in 2005, when the Communists built the plant, they created a unique value and complex, 52,000 people worked in the factory. Hands that didn't steal anything, transparent privatization, promise-making. 2013: 30 employees. In 2017, 12,000 is expected. No job, no wages, no food for the family, no income for the local budget, no money for social programs. The vicious circle, as you can see, is locked. However, when it comes to European elections, I would like to stress once again why there is an average salary of 400 euros on the "Criminal" and 4,000 euros on the "Criminal" in Europe. Almost 90 per cent of Krivorostali products are exported for solid currency and world prices. Where is the money, gentlemen, calling on Ukraine to move to Europe? And such examples of the so-called fictitious management of large capital in Ukraine are thousands. The Company therefore insists on the immediate consideration of our bill on the return to public property of those enterprises that have been privatized illegally and those who do not fulfil their privatization obligations. And in conclusion. The Communist faction insists that in this plenary week, draft bill No. 2661 on the abolition of medical reform and calls upon all deputies, regardless of their functions and factions, to vote in favour of our bill today will provide an opportunity to protect the fundamental interests of our citizens and to exclude the holding of an expert on the killing of the Ukrainian people, as this is in fact being done within the framework of the programme of so-called “medical reform”. The Company's faction will continue to consistently implement its proposals from the anti-crisis package, and we ask our fellow MPs to support these real proposals. Thank you!
ParlaMint-UA_2013-06-04-m0.u11	Vitaly Klitschka Faction, Chicken. Please, Vitaly Volodymyrovich.
ParlaMint-UA_2013-06-04-m0.u12	Dear colleagues, I would like to address you and draw your attention to the elections that took place a few days ago. Elections that have taken place with numerous violations and machinations In particular, this refers to the city of Vasilk, Alcevsk, Yalta. Once again, the carousels circled, they bounced, and there were ballots going around, and there were voices buying again. These facts were documented. And so I would like to emphasize that we are going to sue the court for all the results of the falsified elections, particularly in Vasilkov. We also demand that the Minister of Internal Affairs, Zacharychenko, take control of all cases of misconduct, and we demand that all the machinators be held accountable. We demand the resignation of the head of the administration of Kiev, Lugansk, Crimean government, who have failed to ensure that fair elections are held. All organizers and performers of counterfeiting must understand that responsibility will come sooner or later! An example of what is happening in Turkey today is that a mass protest can trigger any decision of authority that is not perceived by society. So I appeal to authority: Do not test the patience of people, it is not infinite. We did. We are obliged to do our utmost to ensure that people have the constitutional right to choose to stop the vacchanal that is in the country today. We're proposing a two-round election of city heads, that's the bill we filed in 1089. Parliament must also appoint the election of Mayor Kyiv and the Kiev City Council so as not to accuse the Supreme Council of inaction in court, so as not to criminalize the people of Kyivrad, who will represent the activities of the body whose term of office has already expired. The draft of the relevant decision was made by the members of the Fatherland and the Impact Board, the number of Project 2175a. The other one. We demand that the government report immediately on arrangements relating to cooperation with the Customs Union. Third. The President shall nominate a member of the CTC to Parliament. Our principle position: The President should consult with the opposition forces and the CLTC member should also represent the political forces of the opposition. Four. We have to make a real pension reform, find the funds to pay our pensions, start saving ourselves. The profile committee gave a positive conclusion as to the strike bill number 1236. He foresees that pensions should be given to senior officials according to the same principle as that of all citizens. We need to get this bill into the agenda right away. And I say to everyone: we need to support him. Next. For the first time in the working days of the new parliament, our faction filed a bill to abolish the MP's benefits, this is number 1075. We have to put him to the vote. The UDARA deputies also filed a bill to abolish the most dangerous situation of the so-called Yanukovic reform, Azarov (the number 2072). We are particularly encouraged to cancel the increase in retirement age and internship, as well as to consolidate the same principle of pensioning for all Ukrainian citizens. Thank you for your attention.
ParlaMint-UA_2013-06-04-m0.u13	The Freedom Union. People's MP Tajnibok.
ParlaMint-UA_2013-06-04-m0.u14	Dear Mr. Head! Dear fellow national MPs! The governing clan has actually come up with a new way of enriching and plundering the Ukrainian state. There was another government meeting yesterday, and at this meeting the government discussed and approved an absolutely terrible cynical, blasphemous document that would allow the Ukrainians to be robbed if they did not stop the process. I'm referring to the decision of the Cabinet of Ministers of Ukraine, which is called "Some of the issues of implementation by the chief budget administrators of the capital expenditure over the scope of the establishment of budgetary assignments." The very name of this decree speaks of what? They're going to try to make expenses without the public budget, and they're talking about society, seriously violating basic Ukrainian budgetary legislation, violating and ignoring the basic principles of the budgetary system, this is the principle of targeted use of funds, which determines that budget funds can only be used for the purposes and purposes defined by the budget. The essence of the decision is that they decided to take a loan for a small amount -- not much as 50 billion dollars -- and the way in which these funds are used and the procedure for returning them to the state budget is completely distorted. 50 billion dollars of credit the government is trying to get involved in a so-called sad news programme that was approved by the same government the day before, which is an economic revitalization programme for 2013-2014. I'll remind you that this program was about 400 billion dollars going to be used to implement it! These funds are not included in the government budget. I'd just like to make a comparison of the numbers. The government budget’s planned income for the current year is 363.1 billion dollars! That is, the government is planning to make its spending by transferring it to society by transferring the sum that is the seventh part of the government's budget. What's more, I want to tell you, an honorable society. Very interestingly, they determined how the funds would be distributed, the 50 billion dollars. At first, perhaps in order to ensure the transparency of the process, the government planned to create a so-called interdepartmental group, which was to be composed of different ministers, vice-premiers, professionals who were supposed to make proposals. Later, if this proposal had to be approved, there would have to be a finance-credit board that would have as many as 13 people: vice-premiers, ministers and so on. What did the government actually do yesterday?Oh, my God! This procedure was cancelled. And they created just this so-called finance-credit council of only five people! And these are all people close to Deputy Prime Minister Azarov. And so it's definitely going to be a real dump, another real waste of government funds that would belong to the community. Moreover, they have not introduced into this financial and credit board any representatives of the Ministry of Industrial Policy, Agriculture Policy, Infrastructure, Regional Development, Construction and Housing. What it says is that these funds are not planned by the government to spend on housing and utilities, they don't plan to spend on roads. Instead of spending on the industry, agriculture, they plan to make a deposit for future presidential elections and to recharge their pockets and plunder the Ukrainians. And all of this is happening in the background of trying to infamously sign the Customs Union with the Russian Federation. As always, the government of Azarov has become a principle and example in our nation, and it begins to hide the texts of international treaties. And only under public pressure was this Sabbath part of those contracts made public. What do they sign? Do you think they're signing some kind of economic agreement? No, society. The Customs Union and, finally, this has already been said to be a tangible one, and President Putin of the Russian Federation, this is actually the revival of the new Soviet Empire. And that's not where Ukraine should go. But political repression continues in this background, society. Repressions against representatives of the All-Ukrainian Freedom Union and other opposition representatives. Repression continues against independent journalists. In particular, I inform you that there is such a journalist as Artem Krapadsky, who represents the newspaper Kommersandu Ukraine. He's been under surveillance for a week. This person, who writes about street events, events and prosthetic actions, direct actions, is in real danger to his life. I want to inform you that right now there are searches at this time in the KYU political dormitories, where, in particular, in the room where student "Freedom" activist Oleg Zagoryanski lives, three unknowns who are looking at police personnel are being searched this morning. That's exactly what happened when we received the information that the search is taking place in the apartment of the Freedom Actor, Oksana Shelest. What I'm saying is that tonight, two activists in Ternopol have been arrested simply and simply for flinging out advertising posters, and so far, two activists have not been released in Ternopol. And in general, the Ternopil police do wonders, they believe this structure that is supposed to protect people. During the last week, nine Freedom Actors were arrested. They fold, society, the processes of the peoples of the land. And I want to say to that authority, if you don't stop, look what's going on in Turkey, it's the same thing! Glory to Ukraine!
ParlaMint-UA_2013-06-04-m0.u15	Showtime's up. Therefore, the list of issues proposed for discussion and decision-making today are with the deputies. And let's move on to their consideration. Consideration is given to the inclusion in the agenda of the day session. There is a proposal for the inclusion in the agenda of the draft Act (registration number 2606) on amendments to the Ukrainian Act on Measures to Combat the Illicit Traffic in Narcotic Drugs, Psychotropic Substances and Precursors and Abuse of It) on the monitoring of the situation. I give the floor to Jigi Mikoli Vasilovich. May I put it to a vote? I am voting for the agenda of the draft Act (Registration No. 2606) on the amendment to the Ukrainian Act on Measures against the Illicit Traffic in Narcotic Drugs, Psychotropic Substances and Precursors and the Abuse of Precursors) on the monitoring of the situation for adoption. People's deputies, please vote. [[10:37:51]] For 311 Against-0, held-0, didn't vote-93. Decision taken. The factions. A proposal is made for the inclusion in the agenda of the draft Law on Amendments to the Ukrainian Law on the Single National Demographic Register and Documents certifying Ukrainian citizenship, certifying a person or his or her special status (for the free replacement of the old licence for retired citizens) May I put it to a vote? [[B in m in s a l in]] I bet. Well, they're asking you to vote to adopt your law. Come on. I'm betting on a draft bill (number 2633, 2633-1) to be included in the agenda of the day session. Please vote. [[10:39:27]] For 333 Against-0, held-0, not voted-72. Decision taken. The factions. A proposal is made for the inclusion in the agenda of the daily draft Order (No. 2863) amending the Supreme Council of Ukraine Ordinance on Committees of the Supreme Council of Ukraine of the Seventh Invocation (for innovation policy). I'll put the vote to the agenda, please vote. [[10:40:20]] For 279 Against 37, holding – 7, not voting – 81. Decision taken. The factions. There is a proposal to include in the agenda of the daily session of the draft Law (Registration No. 2620) amending article 42 of the Employment of the Population Act (to pay employers for permission to use the work of foreigners and stateless persons for temporary employment). I'll bet you a vote for the day. Please vote. [[10:41:21]] For-187 Against – 1, held – 36, not voted – 178. The decision is not taken. With motive? Now the whole room will be motivated. Please, "Freedom," Miroshnichenko, on a motive, please.
ParlaMint-UA_2013-06-04-m0.u16	Igor Miroshnichenko, the All-Ukrainian Freedom Union. I am addressing the electorate first and, of course, the members of the Party of Regions who did not support this bill on the introduction of the agenda. This bill is absolutely needed by the whole country because it fills the state budget. Ladies and gentlemen of the region, you're worried today about how to fill the fine, you're robbing all the Ukrainians today. Alexander Mirne and I have introduced a bill that allows today to essentially fill the state budget and protect the Ukrainians who are now at the heart of unemployment. We can protect Ukrainian jobs today and fill the government budget. Therefore, the request to revert to the matter and still bring it into the order of the day. Thank you.
ParlaMint-UA_2013-06-04-m0.u17	Please, Party of Regions, Dry Jaroslav.
ParlaMint-UA_2013-06-04-m0.u18	Dear colleagues, the point is that our Committee on Social Policy and Work has unanimously recommended that this bill be adopted as a basis. The point is, even though it's the first draft of the non-factional opposition that doesn't really need budget expenditure. And today, on our committee, there are laws of opposition that require almost 700 billion dollars. I'll draw your attention to what, if an employer is able to bring tens of millions of euros into the premier league, a good becimto player, why not share with the budget? If an employer from abroad imports a specialist that we could raise in Ukraine and pays him ten times the salary, why not share the budget with such an employer? Where could this cost go? At least childish sports schools are being strengthened. That's why I think we could vote for this bill.
ParlaMint-UA_2013-06-04-m0.u19	I'm betting on the vote on the return to draft Law 2620. Please vote. [[10:44:49]] For-195 Against 0, held – 28, not voted – 184. The decision is not taken. The factions. Let's go to chapter two. A draft law (Registration No. 1154) on the characteristics of the Sanitation Bank (second reading) is being introduced. I would like to ask the head of the Committee on Finance and Banking, Mr. Alexander Mikolayovich Rizenkova. Alexander Mikolaiovich Rizhenkova to the rostrum, please! What are the motives? I put it twice. Let us consider the question.
ParlaMint-UA_2013-06-04-m0.u20	Dear Head! Dear colleagues! You are given a second reading comparative table for the draft Law on the Specialities of Sanitation Bank, adopted as the basis for April 4, 2013. During the preparation of the draft draft for second reading, a working group consisting of representatives of the National Bank of Ukraine, the Ministry of Finance of Ukraine, the World Bank and Banking Experts worked out 20 proposals from the Ukrainian National Deputies. Counting 6, negative 14. In a comparative table of rejected suggestions, there are quite extensive arguments, and I would like to refer to the subjects of these suggestions to review these suggestions in order to shorten the time spent discussing the bill. As a result of the drafting of the bill for second reading, appropriate amendments were taken into account to prevent the transfer to the recovery bank of assets held by third parties or for which other burdens and any liabilities of other banks that are owed by debtors have been imposed; to bring the issue of the application of international standards, accounting and financial reporting to the sanitisation bank as a matter of law. Taking into account the need to address the identified problem and taking into account the need for IMF and the World Bank requirements, which has sent a letter of support to the committee on the bill, the committee proposes to adopt the bill in second reading and in general. Thank you for your attention, please.
ParlaMint-UA_2013-06-04-m0.u21	On the rostrum, there are repairs. Let's do that. Amendment number one, National Deputy Fursin. Is he insisting on correction? He doesn't insist. Yes, 2 is counted. Amendment 3, People's Deputy Fursina. What are those screams? There are second readings, there are amendments to MPs -- we have to define ourselves and adopt laws. Amendment 3, National Deputy Fursin. You don't insist. Next. Number 4. Overruled. National MP Fursin does not insist. Amendment 5, People's Deputy. None. National deputy Sharov, is there an offer? None. Number 6. Amendment 7, National Deputy Fursin. No comment. Amendment 8, People's Deputy. Don't you insist? None. Let's move on. Sharov People's Deputy, Amendment 9. Counted. Yeah, 10th goes on. Counted. 11th is an editorial. It's too much. Amendment 13, National Deputy Fursin. He doesn't insist. Sharov National MP, Amendment 14. He doesn't insist. 15th. Counted. 16th Amendment, People's Deputy Sharov. Counted. 17th National Deputy Sharov. No questions asked. Amendment 18 rejected. National Deputy Fursin. He doesn't insist. 19th, yours. No, it's not. Amendment 20, National Deputy Sharov. He doesn't insist. We have considered all the amendments, so there is an offer to accept. Committee opinion: accept in second reading and in general. I'll put it to the vote. [[B in m in s a l in]] Ask for words. second reading. [[B in m in s a l in]] I'm asking you to turn on the microphone, a minute, the People's Deputy of Tegnibok.
ParlaMint-UA_2013-06-04-m0.u22	Dear colleagues, the point is that we've started to look at those bills that are now being considered in the second reading, which seem to have been adopted in the first reading at this so-called "traveling session." There is such a proposal that all these bills, such as 2405, 1154, 2144, 1177, 2102, 1178, 2291, 2138, 1246, 2029, 2084 and 2547, should be sent for re-reading with a view to legalizing them. Do you understand? If we're going to adopt and vote for bills that are illegal in this room, then nothing will work. And in fact, if there's another second reading going on and they're going to review it again, we can argue that these bills are actually coming back here, to the hall, from the first reading, and, according to the Rules, then we can look at them. Thank you.
ParlaMint-UA_2013-06-04-m0.u23	Let's go to the vote. I'm betting on a draft bill, the first one is the committee's proposal. What do you say, Rules? I'm in the rules of action. I put to the vote a draft Act (No. 1154) on the characteristics of the activities of the sanatorium bank for adoption in the second reading and in general. Please vote. [[10:53:05]] For 210 [[Applause]] The decision is not taken. I'll bet you a vote. [[B in m in s a l in]] I'm willing to vote on the re-reading. [[B in m in s a l in]] I gave my word. For the second reading again. Ladies and gentlemen, I am putting to the vote the draft Law (1154) on the characteristics of the activities of the Sanitary Bank for adoption in a second reading. Please vote. [[10:54:04]] For 213 Against 45, holding back five, not voting 72. The decision is not taken. The factions. [[B in m in s a l in]] Ladies and gentlemen, may I have your attention? I'm voting on the proposal of the People's Deputy Tegnibok. Laws. Bills No. 1154, 2144, 1177. I'm not including 1154. The laws, I beg your pardon! – 2144, 1177, 2102, 1178 and 2291 put to the vote for adoption. for directing. send a second reading to the committee. [[B in m in s a l in]] But I am. I'll bet you a vote to re-read to the committee. Please vote. [[10:57:06]] For 180. Against 37, holding – 7, not voting – 130. The decision is not taken. The factions. I'd like you to sign off on the factions for a minute. Please sign up. Please, Fatherland faction, Catherinechuk.
ParlaMint-UA_2013-06-04-m0.u24	Mikola Catherinechuk, Fatherland faction, European Party of Ukraine. Well, obviously, in a fraudulent way, passed bills, they won't have their lives. And today, the opposition is demonstrating that any illegal vote in Parliament will be sworn in, including by the absence of our votes. There was a constructive offer by the leader of the All-Ukrainian Freedom Union, you didn't listen to it. Now you have the result that all those bills have to be re-voted. We recommend that we start this whole legislative process in the legitimate field. No longer violate the Constitution or the Rules. Do not run in banking, and then I think you will find constructive support for the opposition. Thank you.
ParlaMint-UA_2013-06-04-m0.u25	Please, National Deputy Rudzkowski.
ParlaMint-UA_2013-06-04-m0.u26	Dear colleagues! Let's take our political ambitions aside. Because a number of bills, and you can see it, are necessary for our economy to carry out state administration. I have an offer for the whole room. Let's find a compromise and we've passed these bills several times. And they could have been accepted a long time ago. If so, let us vote again on the first reading. But let's go to the committees, please look at them on Wednesday. So we can vote on them on Thursday. Thank you.
ParlaMint-UA_2013-06-04-m0.u27	Please, Vitaly Klitschka, National Deputy of Carpunz.
ParlaMint-UA_2013-06-04-m0.u28	Dear Vladimir Vasilovich! Dear colleagues! Let us act by the Rules. If Bill 1154 did not vote in the second reading, it is considered rejected. All of it. Period. And the same fate will be for everyone else today. It's a complicated option, it's a re-readable version. Given that these laws were passed or voted not by the Supreme Council, unfortunately this is the case. But fortunately or sadly, these laws contain laws for which opposition forces would vote and amend and would gladly support them. Let's stick to the regulatory procedure and let the Supreme Council decide on the laws that support and which do not. But the Supreme Council, not part of our colleagues. Thank you, Vladimir Vasilovich. To read again.
ParlaMint-UA_2013-06-04-m0.u29	Freedom Union, the People's Deputy of Kyde. Pull side, please turn it on.
ParlaMint-UA_2013-06-04-m0.u30	Thank you. Oleg Tuggnibok, U.S. Freedom Union. Dear Mr. Head, dear fellow national MPs! These bills were reportedly voted in the first reading at a so - called exit session. And for all of us, number one is the question that if these bills are to be passed, they have to be approved in this room, they have to be constitutional, they have to be legally legitimized. This is precisely why we have repeatedly found compromise in the Cabinet of the Supreme Council on how to legitimize these bills. And that's why I read 12 bills, and I have to get them back to the committee. And I think it's a very appropriate and right proposition from the Party of Regions, which has been bugged by MP Rudzkowski, to return to read again, to look at it in this room. And "Freedom" for half of those laws clearly votes in favour, because they are right.
ParlaMint-UA_2013-06-04-m0.u31	I ask the people's deputy Jeremeyev.
ParlaMint-UA_2013-06-04-m0.u32	Dear Volodymyr Vasilovich, distinguished national deputies! The mere fact of the leaving session was also wrongly taken with the violation of the Supreme Council’s Rules. And today, in order to find a compromise solution, I would think from the non-fractional national MPs that we should vote first in the first reading and then in the second. What is more, the dominant political forces and the opposition are interested in voting for these bills. Let us reaffirm once again that the Supreme Council is, indeed, the higher legislative body of Ukraine. And we are the first to comply with Ukraine's laws and regulations of the Supreme Council. Thank you for your attention.
ParlaMint-UA_2013-06-04-m0.u33	Please, National Deputy Martinyuk.
ParlaMint-UA_2013-06-04-m0.u34	Thank you. Martinyuk, faction of the Communist Party of Ukraine. Dear Volodymyr Vasilovich, dear colleagues! I would like those who suggest that we follow this course to give me the answer to two questions. The first question is that all of us swore an oath to the deputies and said that we would be law-abiding and law-abiding. It is well known that there is an administrative court’s decision that the meeting was held in a legitimate constitutional manner. That's the first one. The other one. Those who offer compromise, I would like to ask, and what is the compromise? Redo the first read. But they will be re-readed, the first without your compromise, unless voted. If this is about rereading the second reading, then there is a potential compromise. And the third. Part of the laws passed have already been signed by the President and have become laws.
ParlaMint-UA_2013-06-04-m0.u35	Ladies and gentlemen, when I considered the first question, I put the committee's proposal to the vote, according to the Rules. The agreement that I had in my office: these laws should be returned to read again. And you weren't in negotiations, so don't raise your hand. I'm telling you what was agreed in the office with the faction leaders. That's why I'm taking these questions off. There will be a break, we will agree with the faction leaders and return to that question. And I'm going to go over the laws in the first reading. A draft Act (No.2689) amending article 7 of the Ukrainian Act on State Social Assistance to Low-Supplied Families (for those who provide social services) is being introduced. How is this matter being considered? It's full. I'll bet you an offer: a reduced procedure. [[B in m in s a l in]] [[11:05:23]] For-173 Against 93, held-6, did not vote-135. Decision taken. Please, two minutes, Frodo Lydia Mikolayevna.
ParlaMint-UA_2013-06-04-m0.u36	Dear Volodymyr Vasilovich, distinguished national deputies! The bill proposes to grant the right to receive State social assistance to families, which include working persons who provide permanent care for the disabled and the third group or the elderly, who, according to the doctor, are in need of constant foreign care. For the time being, the right to receive such assistance has been legally granted only to persons of working age who have continued to care for persons with disabilities I or for older persons who have reached the age of 80 and over. If the bill is approved, 20,000 more families will be able to care for the most vulnerable categories of citizens on a permanent basis. Expenditures totaling 43.7 million dollars will be earmarked for the government budget of Minfin in 2014. Please be supportive. Thank you.
ParlaMint-UA_2013-06-04-m0.u37	Welcome to the committee, Zelik Ruslan Bogdanovich. Is it? There is, please, the head of the Social Policy Committee subcommittee. Please.
ParlaMint-UA_2013-06-04-m0.u38	Dear National Deputies! Your point is to consider the draft Ukrainian Act amending article 7 of the Ukrainian Law on State Social Assistance to Lowly Provided Families (Registration No. 2689), submitted by the Cabinet of Ministers of Ukraine. The bill proposes to amend article 7 of the law, namely, to include in the number of persons entitled to public and social assistance for low-income families those working with social services. The bill is designed to strengthen the state support of families who have found themselves in difficult living conditions that will improve their social protection. Today, people who provide social services to the disabled of the second and third groups do not have the right to state social assistance, but only receive compensation payments, which amount to 7-15 percent of the living minimum. At the same time, those who provide social services to the first group receive such assistance. Thus, a joint representative body of representative U.S. trade unions at national level supports the bill. The Ministry of Finance and Social Policy of Ukraine also supports the bill. The Ministry of Justice has no proposals or comments on the bill. The main scientific and expert office of the Supreme Council of Ukraine believes that the bill can be adopted on the basis of its comments. Therefore, the Committee on Social Policy and Labour recommends to the Supreme Council of Ukraine, in accordance with article 114, paragraph 1, of the First Rule of the Supreme Council of Ukraine, the draft Act amending article 7 of the Ukrainian Law on State Social Assistance to Small-Supplied Families, submitted by the Cabinet of Ministers of Ukraine, to be adopted as a basis and as a whole. Thank you.
ParlaMint-UA_2013-06-04-m0.u39	Is there a need to discuss? Please sign up for factions. The Fatherland faction, Bondarenko.
ParlaMint-UA_2013-06-04-m0.u40	Vladimir Bondarenko, faction of the united opposition of Fatherland. Dear colleagues, this law is extremely important. The thing is, in my native Holy District, in my district, there's a whole bunch of institutions that specialize in the care of children with disabilities, the disabled of older age. In particular, we have the only kindergarten in Ukraine where children are cared for, besides staff, parents who are admitted to work there, as well as Internet No. 15 for cerebral patients and many other objects. I want to tell you that today the state support for this sector has been extremely low, and every step we have taken as legislators to improve the service of this category of people to create special tax conditions for them. That's what they need. Today these people are experiencing very difficult times when the industrial development of the city has led to the fact that they cannot reach from one end to the other when there are no pandas, there are no roads. There is much talk about this, but virtually nothing is done. So I would ask you to support this legislative initiative and it will serve as a noble step in behalf of those people who, naturally or otherwise, are now placed under difficult living conditions. And I ask you once again to support this bill.
ParlaMint-UA_2013-06-04-m0.u41	Party of regions, National Deputy Momot.
ParlaMint-UA_2013-06-04-m0.u42	National MP Momot, 27th constituency, Dnipropetrovsk. Please give the floor to the People's Deputy Sukh.
ParlaMint-UA_2013-06-04-m0.u43	Pass it on, please.
ParlaMint-UA_2013-06-04-m0.u44	Dear colleagues, you have heard the opinion of the Committee on Social Policy and Labour from the head of the committee of Russian Zelik. I would like to point out that this government bill, which has been introduced for the implementation of the social initiatives of the President of Ukraine, is short-circuited, and it makes sense. And it certainly has the unanimous support of our committee. Clearly, it applies, in this case, to interests, to improving the life situation of more than 20,000 Ukrainian families, and it would certainly be possible to make a proposal for acceptance as a whole. But I'm paying attention, and the government already knows that social services can be provided both for pay and for free (this is also article 7 of the Social Services Act). And if social services are provided free of charge, they are granted monthly compensation, and instead of providing social services on a paid basis, they are regulated by the provision of social services and the establishment of differential pay, which is approved by the Cabinet decision on December 19, 2012. Therefore, we will need to regulate our second reading of the right to receive State social assistance to low - income families of individuals who provide social services in order to reconcile the conditions for payment of compensation. So I propose to vote in favour of this bill in the first reading. Thank you.
ParlaMint-UA_2013-06-04-m0.u45	The Freedom Union of the people's deputy of Schweik. Kyda.
ParlaMint-UA_2013-06-04-m0.u46	Please give Leon a word.
ParlaMint-UA_2013-06-04-m0.u47	Please.
ParlaMint-UA_2013-06-04-m0.u48	The All-Ukrainian Freedom Union, Edward Leonov, Crimea, Sevastopol. Dear National Deputies! Dear citizens of Ukraine! In Ukraine, unfortunately, improvements are now being made — and Ukrainian families have been led to poverty, Ukrainian women, Ukrainian men. And there are families that need special attention, especially support, such as families with disabilities. The essence of the bill is that not only those families who care for the disabled of the first group but those who care for the disabled of the second and third groups are given the opportunity to receive at least a small amount of compensation during the time they cannot spend on their basic work and are given to their disabled. So we understand that it's much more expensive for a state to support people with disabilities in special institutions, that 20 to 30 thousand dollars a month is actually spent on children with disabilities in special institutions, and here we're talking about some extra cash that needs to be paid to parents so they can quit their jobs and spend some time helping their children. Realizing that virtually now people survive, they don't live, they survive in Ukraine, but there are families with virtually no job opportunities, they have to sit with children with disabilities. There is no way for adult workers to work because they care for older, older people who cannot care for themselves. Of course, the State must have at least some small amount of money, but it must still be directed to the support of these people. The All-Ukrainian Freedom Union will seek improvement, real improvement, this ephemeral, situation in this social sphere, we have even introduced a new bill to strengthen social protection for people with disabilities. But we will also vote in favour of this bill, regardless of the fact that it does not protect the rights of the disabled.
ParlaMint-UA_2013-06-04-m0.u49	It's Vitaly Calla. Please, National Deputy Rosenko.
ParlaMint-UA_2013-06-04-m0.u50	Paul Rosenco, Vitaly Calla. Vladimir Vasilovich, the first question is traditionally to you: where is the Minister of Labour and Social Policy of the Royal Natala Jurijovn? According to the submission of the Cabinet of Ministers of Ukraine, the Act amending article 7 of the Law on State Social Assistance is to be reported by the Minister of Labour and Social Policy, Natal Royal. It is not the first time that the Minister of Social Policy ignores the meetings of the Supreme Council, with all due respect inviting the deputy ministers here.
ParlaMint-UA_2013-06-04-m0.u51	We're going to ask her on Friday, "at the hour of the government."
ParlaMint-UA_2013-06-04-m0.u52	Thank you for your attention. Now to the essence of this question. In principle, this bill's mission is absolutely noble: that people who provide social assistance have the opportunity to take advantage of the help of low-income families. But think of the fact: Today, people who work in education, health care, social services, are very poor families. I have the latest data from the State Committee of Statistics: average pay in the education system is 2.5 thousand dollars, health care and social assistance is 2,000 200. After paying all the social taxes and taxes, people actually get a salary of between 1 000 and 1 000 dollars. In the social protection system, one of the smallest wages in Ukraine is the paradox, and people who provide social assistance are today the most socially vulnerable. And this situation needs to be changed, and we can change it by changing it to the state budget of Ukraine. The Impact faction has repeatedly stressed that, according to the Final Positions, they should be the sum of the first quarter. Changes have been made to the State budget, from the point of view, including an increase in social indicators. Two months later, the government had failed to amend and supplement the State Budget. That is why we demand that the Supreme Council of Ukraine.
ParlaMint-UA_2013-06-04-m0.u53	Finish it!
ParlaMint-UA_2013-06-04-m0.u54	And you, as Head of the Supreme Council, have officially appealed to the government to amend the Law on the State Budget of Ukraine for a week on wage increases, minimum living minimum and all the social assistance that is not increasing this year. The strike faction will support the bill, but we're not taking the matter of the state budget off the table.
ParlaMint-UA_2013-06-04-m0.u55	Yeah, that's it. The Communist faction, a minute, the national deputy of Cibenko.
ParlaMint-UA_2013-06-04-m0.u56	Thank you. Communist faction, Peter Cibenko, head of the Committee on Social Policy and Labour Dear colleagues, respected citizens of Ukraine! Of course, the faction of the Ukrainian Company will support this bill because it's not often, I would say so cautiously, a case where we can talk about that the Ukrainian Cabinet of Ministers is introducing a bill aimed at enhancing the social protection of man's work. You know, I want to say that very often, when we talk about national security in Ukraine, we come up with other threats. But the main and real threat to the national interests of Ukrainians, Ukrainians, is a meager pension, a meager social pay, and much more. So, of course, this document needs to be supported, and this is the uncommon one, I emphasize, a step taken by the Government to strengthen the social protection of Ukrainian citizens. Thank you.
ParlaMint-UA_2013-06-04-m0.u57	Thank you. Let's move on to making a decision. I'm voting on the draft Law, registration number 2689, amending article 7 of the Ukrainian Law on State Social Assistance to Lowly Families (for those who provide social services, to be accepted as a basis). Please vote. [[11:20:16]] For 349 Against zero, with zero, with no vote, 58. Decision taken. The factions. Let's move on. The draft Act (registration Nos. 1208 and 1208-1) on the amendment of certain Ukrainian legislative acts (to simplify the procedure for the removal of land) is submitted for consideration. How do we view it? Short? Please vote. Who's behind the abbreviated procedure? [[11:21:25]] For 165 Against 89, held – 10, not voted – 141. Decision taken. For the report, I invite the Ukrainian national deputy Denisenko Anatolia Petrovic. Is there a reporter? You won't? Yes. And then there's the national MP, Omelyanovich. Please, you have two minutes.
ParlaMint-UA_2013-06-04-m0.u58	Anatoly Denisenko, 173rd constituency, Kharkiv City, faction of the Party of the Regions. The draft Act on Amendments to Certain Legislative Acts of Ukraine (to simplify the procedure for the removal of land), (registration No. 1208), aimed at resolving the issue of the disclosure of land tenure procedures. My colleague developed an alternative bill (number 1208-1), which deals with similar issues. At the same time, it is aimed at solving additional issues. In view of the foregoing, I am calling off my bill (number 1208), and I propose that you, honourable members of the people, support the alternative bill 1208-1. Thank you for your attention.
ParlaMint-UA_2013-06-04-m0.u59	Thank you. People's Deputy Omelyanovich Denis Sergiyovich, please.
ParlaMint-UA_2013-06-04-m0.u60	Dear Vladimir Vasilovich! Dear National Deputies! As in Bill 1208, the alternative bill proposed for your consideration concerns the same issue: the correction of the mistakes and inconveniences in the existing land legislation and the simplification of the procedures for the removal of land and the agreement of land-use documentation that was made at the time of the adoption on 16 October 2012 of the Ukrainian Act on Amendments to Certain Legislative Acts of Ukraine (for the activities of the Ministry of Agriculture Policy and Food of Ukraine, the Ministry of Social Policy of Ukraine, other central executive bodies whose activities are targeted and coordinated through relevant ministers). It is proposed to amend the Land Code, the Forest Code, the Water Codes of Ukraine, the laws of Ukraine: "The Land Facility", "The State Land Cadastre" and "The Local Government Administrations". Both bills exclude from the Ukraine’s Land Code the position regarding the functioning of the Documentation and Land Administration Commission, which should now include a bunch of authorized persons and establish that instead of the five authorities currently envisaged, the land removal projects also agree with the majority of one or two authorities. Unfortunately, Bill 1208 did not solve the problem of correcting mistakes in existing legislation. The bill that I have submitted deals with these issues. But the main difference between Bill 1208 is that I propose a return to the legislative field of the groundlessly excluded from the Ukrainian Land Code and the Ukrainian Law on the State Land cadastre, where the agreement of the land withdrawal projects and the state registration of land is made solely at the place where the land is located. So at the district level, not at the district level, not at the city of Kiev. What I consider to be of great importance to all the inhabitants of rural areas. Removing existing mistakes and inconveniences will make it easier, faster, and cheaper for ordinary citizens to agree.
ParlaMint-UA_2013-06-04-m0.u61	Let me finish.
ParlaMint-UA_2013-06-04-m0.u62	Given what has been said, please support Bill 1208/1 and accept it as a basis. Thank you for your attention.
ParlaMint-UA_2013-06-04-m0.u63	Thank you. I'm asking the committee. Head of the Committee on Agricultural Policy and Land Relations, Oleg Anatoliyovich Krályov
ParlaMint-UA_2013-06-04-m0.u64	Dear colleagues! Dear President, Vladimir Vasilevich! [[B in m in s a l in]] I would like to say that the greatest number of complaints, appeals to my public acceptance as a national MP about the very complex, long-term presentation of land documents. [[B in m in s a l in]] Unfortunately, it's not enough that it's long, it's expensive. Some of the things that we have in our previous legislation have led to the fact that land drainage has actually stopped in Ukraine today. [[B in m in s a l in]] The Committee considered a draft Ukrainian Act amending some Ukrainian legislative acts on simplifying the procedure and depriving land, which had been submitted. I would like to thank my comrades Denisenko and Omelyanović, who have raised a very important subject that has been drafted by a very good and correct bill. [[B in m in s a l in]] The committee considered two bills at its meeting. In view of the above, the Committee decided to recommend to the Supreme Council the adoption of a draft Ukrainian Act amending certain Ukrainian legislation (to simplify the procedure for the removal of land) (registration No. 1208) to reject it, and the draft Act of Ukraine amending the Ukrainian Land Code and other legislative acts in the field of land relations (to simplify the procedure for the removal of land) (registration No. 1208-1) to take the basis. Thank you for your attention, and please.
ParlaMint-UA_2013-06-04-m0.u65	Ladies and gentlemen, please sign up for the factions. Freedom Union, People's MP Melnik.
ParlaMint-UA_2013-06-04-m0.u66	Please pass the word to Igor Sabia. Thank you.
ParlaMint-UA_2013-06-04-m0.u67	Pass it on, please.
ParlaMint-UA_2013-06-04-m0.u68	Igor Sabiy, faction of the All-Ukrainian Freedom Union, Hmelnicke District, electoral district 189, Beautiful. The "Freedom" faction of the All-Ukrainian Union will abstain from voting in favour of this law in view of the fact that this bill greatly facilitates the removal of areas of particular value, particularly areas covered by forest plantings. In doing so, we will abstain from voting for the bill. Thank you.
ParlaMint-UA_2013-06-04-m0.u69	Please, People's Deputy Kutov, Strike faction.
ParlaMint-UA_2013-06-04-m0.u70	Angular Taras, impact faction, Poltavščina. The strike faction will support this bill. Thank you to the previous author (1208) that the bill was withdrawn in order to avoid disagreements. In fact, this bill corrects a lot of mistakes that were made a year ago, and today it is very important. Today, both Minagroprompolitics and the State Agency are in charge of the agricultural assignments of state ownership. This law stipulates that the State will be the steward of these lands, there will be no disagreements, and so on. Secondly, it's a question of solving documentation issues. It's going to be decided today at the district level. And it's very important, it'll simplify the lives of the citizens who need these simplifications today. So our faction will support Bill 1208-1 and all colleagues please support it as well. Thank you.
ParlaMint-UA_2013-06-04-m0.u71	People's deputy Easy, one minute. Please.
ParlaMint-UA_2013-06-04-m0.u72	Oleg Lazko, Radical Party. It is quite obvious that the land management process that is in the country today is extremely ineffective. Millions of people throughout the country, especially the elderly, especially those in rural areas, have been forced to wait for months for the approval of land tenure projects. And if it was done there, for example, in the center, in Talalayivka, or in Borzne, or in Bachmach, today it should be passed all the way to Chernigov, and sometimes to Kiev. And there's a land plot of 20 hundred, 30 hundred or 2 hectares, people are 2-3 years old, at best. Because I know that there are times when five and seven years are waiting for them to form a land plot. I would also like to point out that the registration service works ineffectively and that people are forced to stay the night before the registration service to get there and register their land or rights to it. So I think land legislation needs to be changed. The bill needs to be done.
ParlaMint-UA_2013-06-04-m0.u73	Let's move on to making a decision. May I have your attention, please? I'm going to put 1208 first, because this decision can only be rejected by the Supreme Council. That's why I'm voting on the draft Act (Registration No. 1208) to amend some of Ukraine's legislative acts (to simplify the land collection procedure) as a basis. Please vote. [[11:32:24]] For -14 Against-42, held-76, not 265. The decision is not taken, the law is rejected. May I have your attention, please? I'm betting on a draft bill (number 1208-1) amending some of the legislative acts to simplify the procedure for the removal of land as a basis. Please vote. [[11:33:07]] For 296 Against-0, held-34, not a vote-71. Decision taken. The factions. A draft Act (Registration No. 2130) is under consideration to amend some Ukrainian legislation on the improvement of the land collection procedure. How do we view it? Please vote. Who's behind the abbreviated procedure? Please vote. [[11:33:59]] For a hundred and Against 80, held-12, not 153. Decision taken. Please report to the National Deputy of Ukraine Stanislav Anatoliyovich Melnik. Please.
ParlaMint-UA_2013-06-04-m0.u74	Dear Chairman, dear colleagues! Your opinion is proposed by the Ukrainian Law on Amendments to Certain Ukrainian Legislative Acts on Improving the Procedure for Land Administration (Registration No. 2130). The bill amends articles 118 and 123 of the Ukrainian Code of Land and articles 53. 5 The Code of Administrative Offences. The adoption of the bill will allow legal and natural persons to simplify the issue of obtaining permission to develop documentation and land from executive authorities or local self-government in part of the application supplement, namely the graphic plan. According to the bill, it can be a pattern of positioning, digging from the base plan, and the master plan and maps, and so on. It's not like digging from cadastral plan, or, as in the actual law, because it's not possible to get that kind of digging without the proper authorities, and it's a matter of paying a certain amount of money. The introduction of the principles of silent agreement will enable citizens and legal persons to order land administration documentation within a month from the date of application to the appropriate executive authority or local self-government in the event that a decision on the granting or refusal of land is not taken by such authority during the period. Some local executives and local self - government authorities, according to practice.
ParlaMint-UA_2013-06-04-m0.u75	Finish up.
ParlaMint-UA_2013-06-04-m0.u76	They've been looking at land issues when they turn to ordinary citizens for years -- and people are losing hope of using their constitutional rights. Since the law’s principle of silent agreement is a source of debate, the draft of the bill for the second reading could be further elaborated. Suggested edition of article 53. 5 The Ukrainian Code on Administrative Offences provides for the introduction of a mechanism for the responsibility of officials of executives and local self-governance authorities for the failure to reach an agreement or not to agree on the documentation with the administration in the form of a fine. Thank you.
ParlaMint-UA_2013-06-04-m0.u77	I ask, co-report, the head of the committee's subcommittee on agrarian politics of King Oleg Anatoliyovich. You had two minutes. Have a seat. Stanislav, there were two minutes.
ParlaMint-UA_2013-06-04-m0.u78	Dear colleagues, I think you will all agree with me that the area of land relations requires special regulation, a special approach. We all know that the largest bribe is registered in Ukraine when the land is taken away in Kiev. There are many complaints about the complexity and cost of the process. This bill is revolutionary in terms of land law. I would very much like Stanislaw Melnik to succeed and, on second reading, to enact a law that really completely, in general, fundamentally changes the procedure of the drain. If we had previously submitted documents or people who had taken the land, submitted documents and, unfortunately, could not always obtain those documents, for example, until he paid the bribe until he agreed to do so until he met any conditions, the principle of tacit consent was introduced. If you have not been answered in time, then the documents are considered accepted. I think we should wish Stanislav good luck, we'll all help him together. But if we do that, we are fundamentally changing the situation in Ukraine. Thank you. I suggest you take it on first reading.
ParlaMint-UA_2013-06-04-m0.u79	Please register with the factions. People's Deputies, the Fatherland faction of Leapina.
ParlaMint-UA_2013-06-04-m0.u80	Xenya Lapina, "Fatherland" faction, "For Ukraine!" The city of Kyiv. Our faction will support this bill, because it actually implements the principle of silent consent, it provides appropriate mechanisms. What is more, it introduces the responsibility of officials, the real responsibility, for prolonged periods, and so there is direct inactivity, which prevents citizens from realizing their direct right. Of course, there is a certain need to complete this bill for the second reading, but it is the principle of silent consent that we even propose to strengthen. It can't be cooled off by this bill for second reading, because it's the most valuable thing that's in this bill. That's why the "Fatherland" faction will support this bill as a basis.
ParlaMint-UA_2013-06-04-m0.u81	Freedom Union, People's Deputy Kyle, please.
ParlaMint-UA_2013-06-04-m0.u82	Marcinkew, please give it to me.
ParlaMint-UA_2013-06-04-m0.u83	Please, pass it on.
ParlaMint-UA_2013-06-04-m0.u84	Ruslan Marcinkov, All-Ukrainian Freedom Union. The Freedoms faction will vote against the bill. Disposal of land under the principle of silent agreement, without consideration by local councils, will further undermine the rights of local self - government, corruption, and social conflict. It is not uncommon for two, three projects to be produced in one area by different individuals. As a result, an increase in lawsuits and an increase in the role of statesmen who are now subordinated to Yanukovich rather than to local self - government. There should be order in the states, not destruction of local self - rule today. Another novelty of this bill is the principle of unmotivated rejection. What is "unmotivated refusal" in this law by local self-government authorities is not written down. What if a given land area is in a park area, especially with regard to cities, and if a coastal strip or a road is designed? This is an unmotivated refusal, but this is not prescribed in the bill. It is also inappropriate to take the excavations from the cadastre map, for today it is often the case that one land is subject to poor cartographic material and, as a result, to conflicts between legal and physical persons. Therefore, the faction of the All-Ukrainian Freedom Association believes that today's bill limits the rights of local self-government and requires further substantial work. Therefore, we propose to reject the bill. And continue to work to limit today’s will to the state, government, and not to destroy local self - government. Thank you. Glory to Ukraine!
ParlaMint-UA_2013-06-04-m0.u85	Who's with the Faction Strike? Are they desirable? None. National MP Novak, please. Turn it on? Please, let's go to the rostrum.
ParlaMint-UA_2013-06-04-m0.u86	Dear Chairman! Deputies! The strike faction welcomes the principle of silent consent. And this is the principle that allows simplification of procedures and allows the official to speed up the consideration of these documents that have been submitted by the applicants. But we think that this law also has a negative side, first of all, in the condition of our country, where corruption has a great spread in all spheres. We believe that this principle will be applied to the agreement of an official who, simply depriving himself of responsibility, will not consider a citizen’s claim. And so the citizen will get the land without the responsibility of the next official. In addition, if, for example, three or four individuals applied for the same area, how would the principle of silent consent apply in this case? So we think that this law is a possibility of even greater circulation.
ParlaMint-UA_2013-06-04-m0.u87	Let me finish. Speak, speak!
ParlaMint-UA_2013-06-04-m0.u88	That's why the strike faction refrains from presiding over this bill. Thank you.
ParlaMint-UA_2013-06-04-m0.u89	Let's move on to making a decision. Please, a minute, National Deputy Mishchenko. Sergei Mishchenko.
ParlaMint-UA_2013-06-04-m0.u90	Sergei Mishchenko, Kyivščina, 98 district. Dear citizens of Ukraine! Today, the issue of this bill in the field of land cannot be resolved. And the main problem is that the corrupt scheme that exists today in places is that people handing over their documents and money to firms that, like leechings, "sucked up" to the Statecommere, and then this money doesn't come into the budget, but to officials' pockets, that's the main problem. And what's more, even though they're handing out documents and money, these citizens, waiting years for a government act to come to them. And that's why, first of all, it takes hundreds of phone calls from our MPs to get the licenses out of these firms. And the second problem is that there are people who can give money and there are people who don't. It's free to return the emissary.
ParlaMint-UA_2013-06-04-m0.u91	I'd like to ask you from the Party of the Kaletnik Region, a minute, head of the committee.
ParlaMint-UA_2013-06-04-m0.u92	Thank you, Vladimir Vasilovich. Dear fellow national MPs! I just want to thank you briefly for your support for these initiatives in these bills. And I'd like to ask the strike faction, from which a colleague of the people's MP Novak and MP Mishchenko spoke very highly of the non-fractional, in which case you made the right observations, but they can be corrected in this same bill, which is, in fact, a breakthrough, in the second reading. So I'd like to ask you to support this bill in the first reading right now. And the committee for second reading with you, you'll make your proposals in a formal way -- and we'll fix this situation. Thank you. Please be supportive.
ParlaMint-UA_2013-06-04-m0.u93	I'll bet you a vote. I'm asking for your attention! I am voting on the draft Act (Registration No. 2130) amending certain Ukrainian legislative acts to improve the procedure for the removal of land as a basis. Please vote. [[11:47:56]] For 268. Against 34, held – 29, not voted – 76. Decision taken. The factions. The draft Law (Registration Nos. 2287 and 2287-1) on the amendment of Ukrainian laws on topographical and cartographic activities and on land administration (for the implementation of State oversight standards in the field of land administration) is under consideration. How is the question being considered? Please, anyone who has a reduced procedure, please vote. [[11:48:55]] For-157. Against 78, holding - 8, not voting - 162. Decision taken. The factions. And I invite you to report to Stanislav Anatoliovich Melnik. You have two minutes, please. And then there's the Corner Taras.
ParlaMint-UA_2013-06-04-m0.u94	Honourable Chairman, Honourable People's Deputies of Ukraine! Ukraine's draft law, which we are looking at today, is aimed at resolving issues of national geodetic control and oversight in the field of land administration at the legislative level, improving the quality and effectiveness of surveillance, aimed at ensuring compliance with harmonized technology, the sole methodological principles and technical regulations for the creation of topographic and geodetic mapping materials and the work of land administrations for the state and citizens of Ukraine. The bill would prevent abuse by the supervisory authorities during State oversight and would ensure the proper realization of their constitutional rights in the production of land-based documents. The U.S. State Land Agency is responsible for organizing and overseeing the use of topographic, geodetic, cartographic, and other functions in the field of cartographic activity. In order to achieve the above-mentioned objectives, the bill is proposed in the Ukrainian Law on Topographical Geodetics and Cartographic Activities, article 24 of which introduces a new edition, recognizing the order of national geodetic supervision, according to which state geodetic supervision of topographical and cartographic activity is carried out by a specially authorized central authority of executive authority that implements state policy in the field of land relations. In addition, the bill proposes to supplement the law with a new article on technical, technological and geodetic topographical and cartographic activities, which establishes a requirement for technical and technological support for topographical and cartographic operators.
ParlaMint-UA_2013-06-04-m0.u95	Your offer. Finish up.
ParlaMint-UA_2013-06-04-m0.u96	My offer. In view of what I have set out, I ask you to support Bill 2287 and accept it as a basis. Note.
ParlaMint-UA_2013-06-04-m0.u97	Thank you. National Deputy of Ukraine Taras Viktorovich Kutovov.
ParlaMint-UA_2013-06-04-m0.u98	Dear colleagues! Dear Vladimir Vasilovich! You will have before you a draft Act amending some Ukrainian legislation on land administration and geodetics (registration number 2287-1), on 21 February 2013 introduced by us in conjunction with the faction of Fatherland, with the national MPs Kravczuk Vasil Petrovic, Kirilenko Ivan Grigorovich and the apostle Michael Volodymyrovich. This project is an alternative to the previous one. And I want to emphasize that this project is a series-by-line project that is called on to resolve the situation in the area of land relations today. Some of them have already been considered and accepted. As far as the content of the project itself is concerned, I want to put a stop to such features. It is very important that in 2012 the Ukrainian Law on Amendments to Certain Legislative Acts was passed in Parliament. He envisioned a difference in licensing in the field of land administration and the introduction of the personal responsibility of landowner engineers by issuing them certificates. This is normal European practice. A natural person who performs these tasks should be responsible for the quality of the project’s work. But, as we often do, the adoption of this law has become one of the reasons for blocking land relations in Ukraine. We had about three thousand licensees, with some 10,000 workers working in the production of land - based documentation. By the end of the year, the situation had improved significantly. Now it's 2.5 thousand. But the situation also needs further settlement. So first of all, if I have little time left, we want to draw attention to the personal responsibility of the people who sign these documents and who are still responsible. That's the first one. The other one. People who work at the beginning of people who have appropriate qualifications have the same right to do these jobs. So we want to support our bill 2287-1. But what we're saying is that an alternative project is also important.
ParlaMint-UA_2013-06-04-m0.u99	Thank you. The account. Deputy Head of the Committee on Environmental Policy, Environmental Management and the Elimination of the Effects of the Chernobyl Disaster, Sergei Mikolaiovich Glazunov. Please.
ParlaMint-UA_2013-06-04-m0.u100	Dear Mr. Head! Dear National Deputies! With regard to Bill 2287 on Amendments to the Ukrainian Laws on Topographic Geodetics and Cartographic Activities and on Earth. The committee noted that the bill had a number of shortcomings that could not be corrected when preparing for second reading. At the same time, it is necessary to make appropriate amendments to a number of articles of the Ukrainian laws on topographic and cartographic activities and on land that were not subject to consideration of this bill, which is contrary to article 116 of the Ukrainian Act on the Rules of Procedure of the Supreme Council of Ukraine. The Ukrainian State Agency for Land Resources supports the adoption of the bill. The Chief Scientific and Expert Authority of the Supreme Council proposes that the subject of the legislative initiative be reinstated for further development. The committee also decided to return the draft law to the subject of the legislative initiative. As far as Bill 2287 is concerned, I would like to say that the following changes are proposed. In the Ukrainian Land Authority Act, instead of licensing activities in the field of land administration, only certification of landowners' engineers. It is proposed that government oversight be excluded in the field of land administration. The requirements for vocational training and human resources are simplified. A clear list of the reasons why a qualified committee may deprive a qualified certificate is deleted. This may lead to a lack of objectivity in the decision - making process. The committee also considered it carefully. The Ukrainian State Department does not support the bill. The main scientific and expert management makes a number of comments and suggests that they be accepted in the first reading, taking into account the comments. The Cabinet of Ministers is proposing to reject the bill. After a long discussion, our committee supported the adoption of Bill 2287 as a basis. Thank you.
ParlaMint-UA_2013-06-04-m0.u101	Thank you. Have a seat. Ladies and gentlemen, is there a need for discussion? Are they desirable? Yes. Please sign up for factions. Please, Freedom Union, National MP Mohnik.
ParlaMint-UA_2013-06-04-m0.u102	Please give the word to Alexander the Peace.
ParlaMint-UA_2013-06-04-m0.u103	Pass it on, please.
ParlaMint-UA_2013-06-04-m0.u104	Alexander Mirny, the All-Ukrainian Freedom Union. I want to point out two points. First of all, the question is, really, it's out of date. And unfortunately, it's only now that the higher legislature is turning its face to current issues. The other one. The first bill is much weaker than the second. But given the practice of voting, the Party of Regions and Communists for those bills that are being tabled by the opposition, we will support both the first bill and the second bill. Based on the fact that people do not care at all, there is politics or there is no politics. People need to experience the relief of their own work. But let's warn you that if the first bill goes through and the second one doesn't go through, and the first one in 2287 doesn't make any major adjustments and it doesn't get better from 2280-1, we're not going to support Bill 2287 in the second reading. The drafter of the bill would like to pay attention to the factions' positions. Thank you for your attention.
ParlaMint-UA_2013-06-04-m0.u105	Please, National Deputy Tomenko, Fatherland faction.
ParlaMint-UA_2013-06-04-m0.u106	Please give the floor to the co-author of the bill and to the expert in the Ukrainian village of Ivan Grigorovovich Kirilenko.
ParlaMint-UA_2013-06-04-m0.u107	Please, Ivan Grigorovich Kirilenko.
ParlaMint-UA_2013-06-04-m0.u108	Dear Mr. Head, dear colleagues! Kirilenko, Fatherland faction, Dniproperty. The idea of the bill, both the first and the second, is one word: "deregulation." I would like, colleagues, to stress that the regulation of land relations in Ukraine has reached unprecedented proportions in recent years. The following week, we will probably consider a bill that deals with these issues and the point of the next. We've seen that the changeover plan, think about what I'm saying, the changeover plan for 15,000 reformed farms for 50 vertical-integrated agro-formings, and 40,000 farms should prepare commercial structures. It's like we don't have 15,000 agronomists in these farms. Not only will they produce the sums, they will still have to be approved. The price of 4 to 8 billion dollars is removed from agrarian producers. People are groaning over such regulation! So, friends, deregulation is the purpose of this bill, and that's where the business of doing work with the land structure and the land-based work is diverted. These changes are intended instead of licensing activities in the field of land administration to carry out only certification of landowners. The conditions for the certification of individual subjects in the field are clarified. The need for technical and technological management is eliminated as a prerequisite for the recognition of legal and physical persons by landowners or topographic, geodetic, and cartographic entities. The project also addresses a number of other issues. We need to support and quietly clean these august stables." Enough with the agrarian money! Thank you.
ParlaMint-UA_2013-06-04-m0.u109	Thank you. Party of regions, national deputy of Žuravsky.
ParlaMint-UA_2013-06-04-m0.u110	One and the other are not bad. We're going to be supporting the Mellnik People's Deputy's Project, Stanislav Anatoliyovich. And there's no interest in this law: bureaucrats and hoodlums, bribes. They're, of course, losing the ability to make money. The law makes it easier to obtain legal documents on the ground. He's for the people, he needs to be supported. Thank you.
ParlaMint-UA_2013-06-04-m0.u111	Wait a minute. Please, National Deputy Mishchenko.
ParlaMint-UA_2013-06-04-m0.u112	Sergei Mishchenko, Kyivščina, 98 district. Well, there's got to be supervision of those officials who do the cartographic work, other work of producing conclusions, but it's not supposed to be supervision, it's supposed to be control. Because the only supervisory authority we have in the state is the prosecutor's office. And that's why I replaced that word with control. But the question isn't, the question is. That at first, when an application for land is made and by the time a person receives a state act on land, that's a corrupt scheme. And I'm against those speakers who say there were 10,000 specialists who had certificates and licenses for these kinds of jobs, and now there's 2.5. So that's corruption, because it's not 10, it's 4 stopped, and there's no price dumping. And for a person, the more specialists there will be, the less they can provide services, the better. And when they're getting smaller, that's corruption. Thank you.
ParlaMint-UA_2013-06-04-m0.u113	Please, strike faction, People's Deputy Kaplin, one minute.
ParlaMint-UA_2013-06-04-m0.u114	Of course, when considering these bills, we should, as has already been pointed out, talk about them where the regulatory mission is. And that's very important, and we need to support this direction in land degradation in agriculture. But at the same time, we need to remind the Ukrainians, and I think they do, because they face it every day, because there are so many obstacles to farming. But because for a long time the government under the headship of Mikola Janović Azarov was actually deliberately destroying agriculture. And that led to the fact that the cattle in the farm had become smaller and the cattle in the Cabinet of Ministers became smaller. And Ukrainians need to know that, until we clear this Prime Minister and the entire composition of the government, there will be further destruction in spite of our adopted, regulatory laws. Thank you.
ParlaMint-UA_2013-06-04-m0.u115	The last speaker. Post-faction national MP, please. And we'll make decisions.
ParlaMint-UA_2013-06-04-m0.u116	Dear Vladimir Vasilovich! Grigory Zabotny, 17th constituency, Winnitzchina. I think that after John Grigorovich Kirilenko's speech, you could have asked the question in the vote. And once again, as an agrarian, I want to confirm that you're absolutely right, you can sign every word that Ivan Grigorovich said. Because today the licensees have turned this type of government activity into a mere busting of money from agricultural enterprises and specialists. Imagine a situation like this. The licensees say, "If you want to have a wedding, go write it down, bring it to me, I'll show it how my job is done, and you pay me so many thousands of dollars." It's just the abuse of agricultural specialists today in Ukraine at all. I think it's a question of deregulation, if it's anywhere, whether it's in any bill or it's just another document.
ParlaMint-UA_2013-06-04-m0.u117	Thank you. May I have your attention, please? I'm betting on a draft bill (registration 2287) to amend Ukraine's laws on topographical and cartographic activities and on land administration (on the introduction of state oversight standards in the field of land administration) to be adopted as a basis. Please vote. [[12:05:36]] For 324 Against - 0, held - 0, did not vote - 74. Decision taken. The factions. There is no need for a second vote. Ladies and gentlemen, there's a 30-minute recess. At 12.35, we'll continue our work. And the faction leaders, I ask you to come to the office of the Chief of Staff of the Supreme Council.
ParlaMint-UA_2013-06-04-m0.u118	Dear National Deputies! We're continuing our work. The draft Law 2412 on amending the Ukrainian Act on the State Budget for Ukraine 2013 is under consideration (to fill the sources of the subsidy to cover the difference in tariffs). How will we view it? Please vote in favour of the summary procedure. Please vote. [[12:44:52]] For 111 Dear National Deputies! I'm asking you to sit down and start working! There are many questions today, and there are questions that need to be resolved for local authorities today. Please vote for the return to the vote. Please vote. I'm asking you to support the opposition. [[12:45:38]] For-127 I'm asking you to report to the National Deputy of Ukraine, Martovický Artur Volodymyrovich, under this law. And then from the Committee of Gellier Evgeny Borisovich.
ParlaMint-UA_2013-06-04-m0.u119	Dear Vladimir Vasilovich! Dear colleagues! Your opinion is proposed for consideration by the draft Ukrainian Act amending the Ukrainian Act on the State Budget for 2013 (review number 2412). The purpose of the bill is to provide sources of debt relief for differences in tariffs on thermal energy, centralized water supply and water supply, which were produced, transported and supplied to a population that was caused by the inadequacy of the actual cost of thermal energy, and centralized water and water supply services to tariffs that were approved or accepted by government authorities or local government of 270 million dollars. The bill does not change the total revenue of the budget, since it is proposed to redistribute it within the special fund. In view of the relevance and need for the adoption of the bill as a whole as a law to its text and appendix, it is necessary to provide the clarifications given in the Committee's statement. Since the individual comments are given without making any suggestions, I will give them a sound for the stenogram. In section I of paragraph 3 (1), replace the words “and with the payment of fines and interest on the use of resources and material resources” with “financial sanctions and interest on the use of material values and natural gas, coal and oil”. Paragraph 4 and paragraph 5 replace paragraph 1 with paragraph 6 with the words and figures: "and also the coming and paying of such enterprises, except for the state-owned enterprises, the National Atomic Energy generating Company Energoate and the National Energy Company Ukrennergo and the public shareholding companies Ukrhydroenergo, parts of the net income of state-owned enterprises and their mergers, which are excluded from the State budget according to the law and income dividends of shares, parts, equity companies, in statutory holdings, in which state ownership is held, with the result of the financial and economic activity of the company in 2012", with the new paragraph of such a natural gas industry: in article 21 in the first sentence, the words "the public shareholding company is paid" by the company. In the second sentence, the words "marked debt and liabilities" are replaced by the words "at the same time debt and liability for natural gas". I therefore propose to adopt Bill 2412 as a basis and generally as a law, taking into account the comments and suggestions made on the budget committee's newsletter and the proposals I have made.
ParlaMint-UA_2013-06-04-m0.u120	Thank you. Is there a question before? Yes. Please sign up from factions on the question. Yes, please, National Deputy Tomenko. Rosenko? Rosetta, please.
ParlaMint-UA_2013-06-04-m0.u121	Paul Rosenco, Vitaly Calla. I have to say to you, as a representative of a pervasive faction, this is the question: according to the Transitional Regulations of the Ukrainian State Budget Act, the government was obliged to make changes to Ukraine's State Budget for 2013. Changes that would provide for an increase in social standards, minimum wage, minimum wage. It's not done until now. You're picking up some kind of question that's interesting, I understand, from your faction only, and you're trying to bring such a narrow question into the Law on the State Budget of Ukraine. Maybe we should ask a question before. on the irresponsibility of your government and the fact that your government does not implement the Ukrainian State Budget Act and make it comprehensive.
ParlaMint-UA_2013-06-04-m0.u122	Thank you. I think so.
ParlaMint-UA_2013-06-04-m0.u123	Freedom Union, National MP of the Martínks, please.
ParlaMint-UA_2013-06-04-m0.u124	Please pass the word to Mikhalchino.
ParlaMint-UA_2013-06-04-m0.u125	The All-Ukrainian Freedom Union, the city of Lviv. Arthur Volodymyrovich, please tell me, among the comments made to your bill, was it necessary to amend article 21 of the State Budget Act, do you propose to include it in today's vote or not? After all, it clearly states that the State Committee of the Material Reserve lists the receipts of the special fund of the State budget. Thank you.
ParlaMint-UA_2013-06-04-m0.u126	Thank you. Should I answer?
ParlaMint-UA_2013-06-04-m0.u127	Yeah.
ParlaMint-UA_2013-06-04-m0.u128	I couldn't answer that.
ParlaMint-UA_2013-06-04-m0.u129	Please.
ParlaMint-UA_2013-06-04-m0.u130	Thank you. The redistribution is proposed by reducing the corporate tax by 170 million and the value added tax on goods, jobs, and 100 million dollars. An increase in the net revenue of state or municipal unit companies and their associations, which are excluded from the respective budget, and dividends on shares, stakes, pies, companies with statutory capitals of government or municipal property of 100 million dollars and revenues from the implementation of the material values of the state reserve of 170 million. Thank you.
ParlaMint-UA_2013-06-04-m0.u131	I beg you, Fatherland faction, Catherinechuk.
ParlaMint-UA_2013-06-04-m0.u132	Mikola Catherinechuk, Fatherland faction, European Party of Ukraine. You know, my question is going to be about the activity of the government of Azarov because, as far as I can tell, they thought the budget was balanced, where did the amount of 280 million come from? And why do you propose to remove this money from the animal development program and transfer it to nonexistent debt? Because the population is unlikely to collapse. Explain, please.
ParlaMint-UA_2013-06-04-m0.u133	Thank you. On Friday, I think we'll be able to ask this question to the government, but to the sources of funding, it's coming to the special fund of the debt and liabilities of the state agency, including the value added tax and the financial sanctions, and the percentage of the use of the material value of electricity and coal enterprises to the Ukrainian State Reserve for Natural Gas, Coal and Mazute for 170 million dollars and for the payment of part of the net revenue and dividends accrued from the 2012 activities of electricity, coal and gas companies that provide services for transportation and thermal energy supply, central water supply and water supply. In total, it's 270 million dollars. Thank you.
ParlaMint-UA_2013-06-04-m0.u134	Thank you. Have a seat. The account. Head of the Committee on Budget Affairs, Eugene Borisovich Geller. Please.
ParlaMint-UA_2013-06-04-m0.u135	Dear Vladimir Vasilovich! Honorable National Deputies and Invitations! On May 15, the Committee on Budget Affairs considered Bill 2412. The bill does not change the total revenue of the State budget and the balance, as it only provides for the redistribution of the income of the special fund, which is directed at the subsidy, to repay the debt from the difference in tariffs to thermal energy, central water supply and water supply. The main scientific and expert office gives a number of comments to the bill and believes that an expert opinion of the government is needed to make a balanced decision. The Ministry of Finance has no comment on the bill's redistribution of sources of subsidies. In view of this, the committee decided to recommend to the Supreme Council a bill of 2412 to be adopted as a basis.
ParlaMint-UA_2013-06-04-m0.u136	Any questions with the deputies? Please sign up for the question. Three minutes. Please, National Deputy Palamarczuk, strike faction.
ParlaMint-UA_2013-06-04-m0.u137	Please pass the word to Rosenko.
ParlaMint-UA_2013-06-04-m0.u138	Pass it on, please.
ParlaMint-UA_2013-06-04-m0.u139	To the last question. Paul Rosenko, strike faction. My previous question was not answered by the reporter. After all, as head of the budget committee, you are the Ukrainian State Budget Act. Why have no comprehensive changes been made to the government’s government budget so far? And perhaps as head of the budget committee, you should remind your government of this commitment, as set out in the Ukrainian State Budget Act. And my second line. The previous speaker said that there was a suggestion to vote on the basis as a whole. There are very serious objections to this document in the impact faction. That is why we require this bill as a whole not to be put to the vote.
ParlaMint-UA_2013-06-04-m0.u140	Thank you for asking. About what you said about the government. There is a government here every Friday. You have the opportunity to ask the Minister of Finance why he has not yet submitted the redistribution committee. This is the first time. And secondly, I've already said that the committee is proposing to adopt the law as a basis.
ParlaMint-UA_2013-06-04-m0.u141	Please, Yuri Odarchenko, Fatherland faction.
ParlaMint-UA_2013-06-04-m0.u142	Tell me (Juri Odarchenko, "Fatherland" faction), but today we have a law on emergency medical care. A disgraceful law that governs government. What does the government offer here? He proposes to finance rapid medical care at the expense of sponsoring funds! Imagine what a disgrace! Today, it is not the budget that the government is offering to finance emergency relief, but it is the funds involved from sponsors or businesses! Please tell me, why don't you first discuss the issue of emergency financing on the committee, and so urgently, have you considered everything so that all 270 million will be distributed by their handicrafts?Oh, my God! You did this a year ago when you closed off your debt to your businesses and your budget was underbillion dollars!
ParlaMint-UA_2013-06-04-m0.u143	Thank you. Thank you for asking. Mr. Odarchenko, I want to remind you that we don't have pocket companies like you said. It's about "rapid help." If there's no money in the state to keep the ambulance going, I can't see a big deal if sponsors who think and have the ability to help out are going to do it. Thank you.
ParlaMint-UA_2013-06-04-m0.u144	Thank you, sit down. Please sign up for the factions. Faction "BOCK," Paul Rosenko, please. Please, National Deputy Capplin. And then the MPs. Please.
ParlaMint-UA_2013-06-04-m0.u145	Sergey Kaplin, Faction Impact, Poltavščina, 144 constituency. We need to understand that it would seem that the average bill that is currently being considered in the session room has a very deep roots. Here we have to answer a few questions. First question. How does the price of that gas actually form, and we're going to say exactly what is being consumed by a Ukrainian citizen today? And we have to speak frankly and clearly that this price is too high, that Ukrainian citizens have been robbed, robbed for the last 20 years, and openly robbed, insolently, throughout the entire existence of the Soviet Union, throughout the entire existence of an independent Ukraine. We have to answer the second question. Where, in fact, do you take the money to close that gap in tariffs? What are we talking about? In fact, in my district of Poltawa, which is a leader in time and full payment for municipal tariffs, the state simply withdrew its financial obligations. And now it's proposed to take money from agriculture and give money to the oligarchs, to take a second look at Ukrainian livestock, to Ukrainian agriculture, and to give money to those who now own, in particular, natural monopolies. It's unacceptable, it's criminal. And the author of this criminal attack on the Ukrainian economy is the Party of Regions, most of it is the government. We have to answer the third question: Where do we get the money so that, in particular, hot water appears in my district in Poltava and in other cities? Answer. 150 million dollars a year is spent on the President's flight. A million dollars a day is spent on supporting the President. This is exactly the amount that will be sufficient to solve the issue. Next. 16 billion dollars on the IMF. This is when crime thrives. It's just ten times, twenty, a hundred times enough to close that question. I believe it is necessary to cut the budget today, not to destroy the economy, but to strip, tear apart, not to feed and drink Azarov and his government until there is hot water and until he places the Ukrainian oligarchs, more loyally, the anti - Ukrainian oligarchs. And it won't allow a simple Ukrainian citizen to live. Thank you.
ParlaMint-UA_2013-06-04-m0.u146	Party of regions, Jaroslav Suhi. Please.
ParlaMint-UA_2013-06-04-m0.u147	I remember February 2007. This is First Deputy Chief of the Supreme Council, Adam Martinyuk. For two months now, the BUT faction has been rebelling, demanding that prices not be raised for housing and utility tariffs, demanding that services not be raised. All this happiness came to an end, as you can remember, on February 23, 2007, when an electric shield was blocked. And so it went the other way, and then we went to the reelection. Why do I remember that? Ladies and gentlemen, let's remember that we actually had housing tariffs at an excessive price for gas. By the summer of 2005, we had $48 per thousand cubic meters of gas. According to the then Ambassador of Russia of Montenegro, this price for Ukraine was special, especially in its special relationship. Two of Timoshenko’s subordinates, Yvchenko and Placzko, ended up in Moscow in the summer, demanding immediate review of the contract and changes in the price and terms of gas supply. And since then, the horde has gone instead of 48 to 130, 180 and so on and so forth. It all ended in this disgraceful filth of 2009. It is not clear to anyone here that the price at which services and tariffs are granted is not in line with any arithmetic. What the government is offering. 270 million subsidies to local budgets for hot water, inflamed in different ways. I remember those screams in the hall when they spoke. And again, the same as the rain: the oligarchs, they're bad, they're bad, they're little pieces of themselves. What little firms? Heatcommunergo, there are residential companies in every city that provide heat and heating to the population. The tariffs do not meet the costs, so the bill does not introduce anything new. We've done this all the time and we'll do it. And we're going to have to do it until Ukraine becomes energy independent. And while we're sitting on this gas needle, at this price that's stifling us, on this contract that otherwise as a treaty for treason of economic national interests we can't call it, we're going to do it every year, saving local budgets. Because in the local budgets 270 million dollars is not where I'm going to get this bill approved and accepted as a basis if someone really cares that our people have warm water and have a normal, unbreakable and stress-free tantrum. Thank you.
ParlaMint-UA_2013-06-04-m0.u148	Freedom Union, National Deputy Leonov.
ParlaMint-UA_2013-06-04-m0.u149	Please pass the word to Yuri Mikhalchin.
ParlaMint-UA_2013-06-04-m0.u150	Please turn on the microphone, the rostrum.
ParlaMint-UA_2013-06-04-m0.u151	Dear Vladimir Vasilovich, distinguished colleagues! There has just been a series of valid criticisms about the bill, as well as a series of statements that were intended to justify it in every way and to justify the need and the purpose of its adoption. At the same time, of course, a somewhat speculative nature is claimed to be the general structure of the utility market in Ukraine. Because you and I need to be fully aware that this difficult socio-economic situation facing our citizens is precisely what makes it necessary for local governments to set such tariffs for services from centralized heating and water supply and water supply that meet the real opportunities and well-being of our citizens today. But in general, the need for the transition to market relations in this area is already the subject of a lengthy discussion, including a series of requirements of the International Monetary Fund, which Ukraine is obliged to carry out when it has taken on such a necessity as, frankly, would not exist if it were not for a crisis when it borrowed $16 billion. In general, as regards the substance of this bill, it is not entirely correct to state that the total revenue of the state budget is not changing. Formally this is how, and formally, there is a decline in real income, i.e. the corporate income tax, 170 million dollars, and the value added tax for goods, jobs, and 100 million dollars. Instead, it is proposed to increase the share of the net profits of state or municipal unit companies that are being cut off from the state budget and dividends on shares, shares and rations of households, where state or municipal enterprises have a share of 100 million dollars of property. But here we have to realize that these revenues can actually be virtual, and that the information that the Ministry of Finance even provided to the bill, in an expert opinion, contained a statement of justification for such assumptions, based on past practice, when the comings were significantly smaller. Of course, we also need to consider the extent of the proceeds of the implementation of the government’s reserve worth 170 million dollars. This amount is determined later, by the fact that supplies have been made and done, on the basis of court decisions often, and on the basis of expert evaluations of previous contracts. That is, setting the amount of funds to be charged to the special government budget fund of 170 million dollars is impossible. So we need to note that actually because of the oligarization of this sector of the utility economy and the heat energy sector, we are now faced with the need to solve those problems that were systematically, structurally created by previous governments, and that government is only getting deeper and worse. Then, the faction of the All-Ukrainian Union "Freedom" has no intention of supporting this bill as one that is declared and not entirely justified. Thank you for your attention.
ParlaMint-UA_2013-06-04-m0.u152	The Fatherland faction, Ivan Grigorovich Kirilenko.
ParlaMint-UA_2013-06-04-m0.u153	Dear Vladimir Vasilovich, please give the floor to a better expert in this field, Tomenko Mikoli Volodymirovich.
ParlaMint-UA_2013-06-04-m0.u154	Pass it on, please.
ParlaMint-UA_2013-06-04-m0.u155	Dear colleagues, we will begin with our parliamentary office. I'm surprised no one said that we would continue to work in the budget system for the absence of the smallest cleric from the government? Even the clerics don't respect you anymore, and we don't respect you as a parliament. What age of budget changes were made through a deputy, I'm sorry, from the back door, and the government was sitting and counting on how to split this money? It's an exclusive function of government: to come here, to say that it changes the budget, to reason and to tell, and how will 270 million be divided among the areas. Perhaps, as the subsidies were shared earlier, which was given to Anakiyovo as much as the whole of Western Ukraine combined, and almost as to the whole of Central Ukraine? So our position has to be this: not because of the MPs, but the government has to sit here in its entirety and say, "Friends, the situation is that the 2013 budget was wrong and anti-national. I'm sorry, my friends, and I'm sorry, the Ukrainian people, we're introducing a new budget line rather than a single segment to feed the owners of energy companies that have privatized the impact on tariff formation." So our requirement is that all budget changes are exclusively government. The other one. The budget has been voted on, and this year, the End Positions clearly say that the results of the first quarter of the government are looking at social benefits and proposing a new budget. I'm asking, where is the view of the social standards that need to be raised? I understand this was about the gas. Deputies, what gas? The gas of our own production is enough for us to heat up our apartments several times and resolve all the issues. Are these the tariffs you're discussing for people? You're talking about tariffs for your oligarchs because the oligarchs are privatized, Kievenergo, all energy is privatized. How much will we make up for the oligarchs instead of thinking about people? Therefore, our second position is about what should be the new edition of the Budget Law. And to change this paradoxical thing, when the President and the government, when they have to take something from people, they do it with the hands of local councils: they shut down hospitals, they reduce the number of people working in the education system. Today's new idea: you know, they want teachers and professors -- we have too many smart people -- is to increase the pressure on a university teacher to 14 students and reduce 30,000 teachers. When reduced, then Parliament is not asked, and when allocated to oligarchs, they bring to Parliament -- and they pretend to be involved in some way. Vladimir Vasilovich! My position is: the government should be in Parliament on the budget issue, then it will be respect for Parliament and respect for the Ukrainian people.
ParlaMint-UA_2013-06-04-m0.u156	People's deputies please sign up for the speech. Please, Fatherland, Catherinechuk. Pavlovsky, please.
ParlaMint-UA_2013-06-04-m0.u157	Please pass the word to Auntie Tears, please.
ParlaMint-UA_2013-06-04-m0.u158	Pass it on, please.
ParlaMint-UA_2013-06-04-m0.u159	Dear National Deputies! The Fatherland faction will not support this bill for the following reasons. First, we don't want to go down to the same level as last year: changes to the State Budget Act were made 38 times a year. This year, we have to make changes in the complex with the results of the revenue and expenditure portion of budget I of the quarter. Because we're solving one problem right now, and there's a lot more. It's different. There are no financial and economic justifications in the bill. I don't understand, for example, how 270 million bills were made. Why isn't that 100 million, why is that not a billion? Why is this actually subtracting the amount from the income tax, from the value added tax, and directing the costs to two other payments? One second. This bill is painful for us to fight in the field of agriculture. This year, the state support for the animal industry is projected to be 650 million dollars. This bill will take a part of this amount. Let's think about it this way. And it's a very important third moment. It's kind of like that this bill says the income part of the budget, yes, 270 million, and where they're spent, the bill forgot. Amendments to Appendix number seven of the State Budget Act on inter-budget transfers, grants and subsidies and transfers from the State budget to local budgets are required. Thank you.
ParlaMint-UA_2013-06-04-m0.u160	Please, Faction Hit, Smokey.
ParlaMint-UA_2013-06-04-m0.u161	May I have a word with you, Paul Rosenko?
ParlaMint-UA_2013-06-04-m0.u162	Pass it on, please.
ParlaMint-UA_2013-06-04-m0.u163	The Vitaly Klitschka faction, Paul Rosenko. This is the latest data again and again from the State Statistical Committee. Now, 14 billion dollars is the debt of the population to housing services, including water, electricity and so on. In just the last four months, our debt for housing services has increased by 200 million dollars in Ukraine. The country today and the whole society are going to poverty, people today physically have no funds to pay housing services in full and on time. We're turning one problem into another. And instead of solving the basic issue -- giving people money, giving working people a normal salary, giving pensioners a proper pension -- we start with the reverse: we compensate our oblener for the difference in tariffs, and this debt for housing services. So once again, this pyramid of social protection is being turned from one foot to the other. And the problem is catastrophic: 25 percent of the working population today is outside the poverty line. That is, working in Ukraine does not protect people from poverty; working in Ukraine does not perform its primary social function. So the very principle of the impact fraction is this: we should not "feed up the budget", we should make it possible for the government to make complex changes and a new version of the State budget for 2013, where it will be fundamental to raise social standards, where it will be fundamental to raise the issue, raise salaries for budget workers, and for all working citizens, where the base of the budget changes will be the State budget for 2013 to index pensions. We have to raise the standard of living of our citizens. When we have the standard of living at the right level, then the payment for residential services will take place in full. So once again, we insist on the question. The Supreme Council, if the Government itself does not understand that it does not implement the Law on the State Budget of Ukraine, then the Supreme Council of Ukraine should ask the government this question. If the government doesn't understand us, it means that the only way out in this situation is for the impact faction to see the government resign fully and to come to the government, actually, professionals who can still make complex changes to the state budget from the point of view.
ParlaMint-UA_2013-06-04-m0.u164	Please, Freedom Union, the People's Deputy of Kyde.
ParlaMint-UA_2013-06-04-m0.u165	Please give it to Illenka Andrew.
ParlaMint-UA_2013-06-04-m0.u166	Please, Illenka.
ParlaMint-UA_2013-06-04-m0.u167	Andrew Illenko, faction of the All-Ukrainian Freedom Union, city of Kiev. Dear Chairman, honourable colleagues, first of all, I would like to say that we are once again witnessing a totally destructive economic policy when money is being taken away from one direction of funding and transferred to another. It doesn't solve the problem at all, it just creates them. Because the government is today instead of finding new sources of budgeting to create a favourable economic situation in the country in order to create conditions for small development. In order to give people new jobs, he's just doing what he's doing to redistribute the money that's already in the budget, and that's why I'm driving the problem deeper. Today, we see that if the government is trying to make similar changes, if we are talking about hundreds of millions, we need to hear the government's position. We need to see the finance minister today, we need to understand the logic of their budget policy. Because it's not a joke, because as of today, when it comes to such sums and things, we don't hear about the government at all, we feel that it is self-inflicted from these processes. Today, if we speak specifically on this bill, the faction of the All-Ukrainian Union of Freedom will vote against it. Because first of all, they take money out of the real direction of the economy and they move into a virtual relationship that essentially doesn't solve anything, but they're just trying to shut down that hole that was caused by the corruption and oligarization of the housing services. So today, if we're taking money out of the real sectors of the economy, first of all, out of the animal industry, we're killing this sector, but we're not completely solving the problem in the economy. Because this switch, it's not going to create any new jobs, it's not going to create any improvement in the economic situation, it's not going to solve any problems. Again, why is it 270 million? No one can explain that. Why not a hundred, why not three hundred, why not a billion? So where exactly is this amount coming from? Why are we talking about this right now, but we don't hear the government's position? This is most surprising. Plus we also have to understand what language is. We should immediately see how this money will be distributed among the areas. Because we know very well how this is happening today, when those regions where there is absolutely no support for the Party of Regions, there is no money available for today. And that's not exactly the case either, because the process, when everything is going to the Donetsk region, with all due respect for Donbas, is completely wrong, and we are definitely against injustice in the allocation of the financial resources of the budget. That's why we're not going to support this bill, we're going to support real economic development, we're going to increase jobs, not create virtual interrelationships, we're going to put real money into virtual space where it essentially disappears for our economy. Thank you for your attention.
ParlaMint-UA_2013-06-04-m0.u168	The Fatherland faction. Ivan Kirilenko. Please, Odarchenko, National Deputy.
ParlaMint-UA_2013-06-04-m0.u169	Yuri Odarchenko, Fatherland Party. Dear friends! I asked the speaker about how the authorities are going to fund "quick aid" today, and we got the answer that there is one way in today's power -- to push businesses to make sure that the sources don't come from the budget, but from those who work by means of tax pressure, that they still get "quick help" that the state has to finance. Friends! This is a very illustrative example today that where there is a need to allocate money from the budget to a sector that helps people, the Party of Regions is pressing businesses and on a legislative basis creating conditions to survive money from them. Friends! I want to give you an example of how Timoshenko, in spite of all the budget difficulties, made money on medical purchases. I didn't even go to any of the companies. You're really judging her. And today, you're looking for a contest for businesses. Friends, let's talk about this problem. Look, I want to do this analogy once again so that you can compare the position of the government of Timoshenko when, despite being the prime minister, it adopts the AMRP. Despite the fact that every year this program provides 6 billion to 7 billion dollars to reform the LHC system. That is, patching pipes, warm coats on houses, and avoiding the need for the State to give this difference in tariffs. There is no change in your government, and most of you don't have any copies in the budget for the reform program! I want to talk to TV and radio audiences: instead, they're offering dark schemes when they're disbursed from the budget money that can be distributed through some kind of leeway, and they're not going to provide any benefits. Tymoshenko did what was accepted by forces and most of them, and by your powers, the Law on National Regulators for the Work of Monopolies in the Area of the LHC was passed. Guys, what did you turn this national regulator into?Oh, my God! Can any of us say that tariffs are studied, their cost is proven, that this value does not include simply-just financial requirements and the financial loss of these utilities?Oh, my God! No, guys, we can't say that! This commission has become a tool for legalizing elevated tariffs. That's why I don't think we can vote for this bill. When the national regulator doesn't work, when you don't start the reform program. It's the simplest way to get money out of the budget and then wash it off like that.
ParlaMint-UA_2013-06-04-m0.u170	The Fatherland faction. Who? A pawn? Please, Sergey Sobolev.
ParlaMint-UA_2013-06-04-m0.u171	Dear colleagues! Dear Chairman! I think that the topic that we are discussing right now is really about the issue that has been raised by the representative of the Party of the Regions. The price of gas. So please tell me, at a $340 gas price per day this past month, the minimum price for gas that was put on utilities was 5,000 dollars. Well, how much money does it take to make Firtasha through fraud to raise at a price of even $340 out of a population of at least 5,000. And we have schools that have been put up with 8,000 dollars per gas this year. And after that, we say that we have a debt. The second subject is equally important. How much do we have to pay for gas? On average, $100. The first category is 70, the second category is a little over $100. Then please tell me 14 billion dollars is debt. Where did it come from? Did no one think that today the government of Azarowa owe Ukraine only 60 billion dollars for the unreturned VAT? It's unpaid wages, it's company-stolen circulation costs, and no one's going to pay them back. They found a scheme of bills when the papers returned the money. It's the third topic. Please tell me, what's the price of electricity today for businesses in Ukraine? As it may be, Rinat Leonidovich Ahmetov sells abroad — in Hungary, Czech Republic, Slovakia — 40 percent cheaper our electricity than it is sold to Ukrainian companies. Please tell me how can 25 centers be kilowatts for the Ukrainian company if this is sold for about 18 centers for the Czech Republic. And then what do we do? More specifically, the government is afraid to go to this rostrum, through the MPs they're pushing for a decision that says 270 million dollars should be compensated for to whom? That's not true. City mayors, city budgets? That's not true. We must compensate the owners of the shellfish and the oatmeal. Do you want to make those decisions? You've already written down 24 billion last year. Please tell me, then, why is public debt rising in this situation? I think that's the way to nowhere. The government doesn't understand the basics, so it's afraid to go up to this rostrum and figure out how electricity-based tariffs, gas, to date, actually kill the Ukrainian economy even at $340 per cubic meter. And the key one is, unfortunately, that government does not serve 46 million people, but three oligarchs that own gas, electricity and key energy resources. That's why we don't vote for it.
ParlaMint-UA_2013-06-04-m0.u172	Thank you. The discussion was over. Is the closing word in the reporters? Is there no closure? The discussion was over. It's from the deputies. And the factions have already come out. Ladies and gentlemen. I say again, the discussion is over. All of it. Is there no closing word? Please. What's your name? Wait! Go, final word, MP. Please.
ParlaMint-UA_2013-06-04-m0.u173	Thank you. I want to thank you for the discussion, for your part in the discussion. And note that draft Ukrainian Law 2412 only provides for an additional source of income for the 2013 State Budget to compensate for the difference in tariffs in respect of which the clear mechanisms provided for in Cabinet Order 167 are used. Which allows me to participate in the repayment of debt to all entities, I stress this, which have credit, receivables, depending on the form of ownership and the size of the capital. Therefore, I ask the MPs to support the bill as a whole. Thank you.
ParlaMint-UA_2013-06-04-m0.u174	Please, Simonenko, a minute, insists on the faction before the vote.
ParlaMint-UA_2013-06-04-m0.u175	For the reasons of the vote, thank you. Simonenko, the Communist faction. Dear colleagues, the Communist faction will support this decision from the following. First of all, all the talk that was going on in the talk of the "hot," but it's a waste of time that tells us that those who come out of the rostrum today and play the opposition, and yesterday when they're in power, they're different from those who are in power today, like two boots from one pair. And in order to understand what's going to happen and what's going to happen and what's going to happen is there's going to be tariff hikes, and it's going to be translated on the shoulders of our ordinary citizens again, and it's going to be drawn from the pockets of ordinary people. So the faction of the Company doesn't randomly remind you that you have a fundamental question to solve -- all those who are sitting on gas wells today to drive out of there and under state control 70 dollars to sell gas to utilities, then there will be no debt. Next. To those who are here today about what happened and how it happened, I remind you, in Soviet times, this kind of policy cost gas.
ParlaMint-UA_2013-06-04-m0.u176	Finish up.
ParlaMint-UA_2013-06-04-m0.u177	I remind you once again that in Soviet times this approach to resource utilization has made it possible to do the following. In each family, 18 copies of human gas were paid per month. What's happening today? Based on what natural resources in virtually private property they want to do, they do. So once again, I'm stressing that we have to take energy resources under national control, and then we're going to have a penny or four, not like today: it's only used for personal wealth. But given the fact that this will necessarily involve an increase in tariffs when the International Monetary Fund requires more, the faction will vote in favour of the project. Thank you.
ParlaMint-UA_2013-06-04-m0.u178	Ladies and gentlemen, please prepare for the vote. And listen to the offer. I would like to vote on the draft Act (Registration No. 2412) amending the Ukrainian Act on the State Budget for Ukraine 2013 (to fill the sources of subsidies to cover the difference in tariffs). Subsidies go to our voters. [[B in m in s a l in]] For adoption. I asked for attention, but I didn't interrupt anyone. To be accepted as a basis. However, commissioning the Committee of the Supreme Council of Ukraine on budget issues to finalize the draft bill, taking into account the comments and suggestions of the subject of the legislative initiative by June 6, 2013, and to submit it to the Supreme Council for consideration in the second reading. People's deputies, please vote. [[13:33:55]] For-195 Against 66, held 48, not 82. The decision is not taken. The factions. Yes, the draft Law is being considered. An offer is made, and a proposal is made: draft Law 2412 should be sent to the committee for review in the first reading. Please vote. [[13:35:03]] For 193 Against 91, held 16, not voted, 94. The decision is not taken. The draft Law (No. 2221) on the abolition of unjustified benefits and privileges for persons authorized to perform the functions of the State is under consideration. How do we view it? Please vote. Who's behind the abbreviated procedure? [[13:35:52]] For 158. Against 93, held – 9, did not vote – 137. Decision taken. I'm asking the National Deputy of Ukraine, Yacenyuk Arseny Petrovich. Then he's head of the committee.
ParlaMint-UA_2013-06-04-m0.u179	Mr. Head and Members of Parliament, for the first time in office of this Supreme Council of Ukraine, Parliament will be considering the Law on the Cancellation of Benefits and Privileges for Persons authorised to perform the functions of the State. I'm talking about the cancellation of benefits for the President of Ukraine, for the Prime Minister of Ukraine, for the Ukrainian National Deputies, for the members of the government and for the local administrations. The opposition, namely three factions: Fatherland, Strike and Freedom, introduced a single and coherent bill that envisions the abolition of all the benefits and privileges paid by Ukrainian taxpayers. In that case, if the bill is adopted, the additional cost savings will be about 2 billion dollars that need and can be sent to education, to treatment and, by the way, to build the Ohmatdit hospital, which has just approached me in the parliamentary spheres. So what is it? The bill deals first with the fact that the President of Ukraine does not have the right to manage dozens of state residences, but has only one state residence and liberates this state residence on the day that he ends his term of office, unlike his predecessors, who still live at state expense. The other one. The bill stipulates that neither the Prime Minister of Ukraine nor the President, nor the Head of the Supreme Council of Ukraine, nor other officials have the right to spend more than 300 million dollars per year on air travel and have the right to use purely regular flights. Third. The bill stipulates that neither the President nor the Prime Minister nor the Head of the Supreme Council of Ukraine have the right to travel around Kiev and Ukraine with anchors and to cover roads for Ukrainian citizens. Four. It's a bill.
ParlaMint-UA_2013-06-04-m0.u180	Please finish the dates.
ParlaMint-UA_2013-06-04-m0.u181	The bill envisions sales in Conchi Zaspí, where all former and current officials have actually settled, and 50 million dollars from the state budget of Ukraine are spent on supporting those people who have to pay for themselves. The bill provides for the cancellation of a special benefit pension for Ukrainian national deputies and senior officials and for the limitation of a minimum wage of less than 10. The bill cancels all weekend benefits, all weekend benefits, and other forms of payments made to the Ukrainian National Deputies. The bill provides for the sale of 50 percent of the government’s car fleet, which spends tens of millions of dollars on Ukrainian taxpayers. This is a law that does not make the poor Ukrainian people poor, and this is a law that should make the Ukrainians rich, but the power that works for the Ukrainians poor. Please vote in favour of this bill.
ParlaMint-UA_2013-06-04-m0.u182	I ask the head of the committee Zwania David Vajawicz.
ParlaMint-UA_2013-06-04-m0.u183	Dear Chairman! Dear National Deputies! All present! At its meeting on 3 April, the Committee considered a bill on the abolition of unjustified benefits and privileges for persons authorized to perform the functions of the State, submitted by the national deputy Arsenius Yacinuk, Vitaly Klick, and Oleg Tuggnibok. According to the drafters of the bill, it is proposed to cancel or restrict undue benefits and privileges for certain officials. Please note that the Committee on Rules, MPs and Security of the Supreme Council of Ukraine and the Chief Expert Office, which recommends rejecting the bill, have expressed in their conclusions a large number of observations to the general bill, including that the proposed changes are not of an integrated and coordinated nature. In particular, the Regulatory Committee on Amendments to the Ukrainian Law on the Status of the People's Deputy of Ukraine notes that there are today several bills in Parliament that provide for amendments to the same articles of the same law and made by representatives of the same MPs. In view of this, the committee believes that changes to the law are complex. It's their committee. The Committee on Budget Affairs notes that the bill has an impact on the budget indicators by reducing budget spending and informs that Minfin Ukraine notes that the cost of assessing such a reduction is inconceivable due to the failure of the authors to provide the bill with sound financial and economic justification. The Ministry also points out that the proposed restrictions are not justified, nor are they generally applied to the comprehensive approach to other legislation in the process of reviewing benefits and guarantees. The National Security and Defence Committee agrees with the position of the Scientific and Experimental Authority and proposes to reject the bill. Thus, the committee, in support of the idea of reducing the benefits of certain officials, agrees with the inadequacy of individual positions.
ParlaMint-UA_2013-06-04-m0.u184	Finish up.
ParlaMint-UA_2013-06-04-m0.u185	In the absence of sound financial and economic justification, the Supreme Council of Ukraine recommends that Ukraine's Supreme Council reject the bill. Thank you and please support the position of the committee. Thank you.
ParlaMint-UA_2013-06-04-m0.u186	Please register with the factions for discussion. Have a seat. The Fatherland faction, the Ariev People's Deputy.
ParlaMint-UA_2013-06-04-m0.u187	Dear colleagues, I have a question for you. Would you please tell me, most of you, the last time you were on the subway or on public transportation? There are a few people, but most of the halls. Well, everyone's about to get up, there's gonna be a forest of hands, but there's a deputy on the subway, by the way, who's also being paid from the State Budget, because you can pass by the subway by license, but that's rare today. Just our colleagues from the opposition, he "liberators" almost raised a forest of hands. But on the other hand, let's just once see if we are today, we're hearing from the government all the time that we need to stretch our seatbelts, that we need to somehow survive difficult times. So tell me, please, why is it that the belts are to be extended by the people, and the people's deputies, the government, the President, are to receive the same benefits as in the richest country in the world? In Britain, one of the ministers was transferred to the power plant to cancel the extra expenses on his service car. What do we have? It's just an unrealistic picture! Let's do this if we have to. More specifically, our government is forcing people to stretch their seatbelts, and we will be the first to set an example. Is it weak? Come on! The vote will now show.
ParlaMint-UA_2013-06-04-m0.u188	Freedom Union, National MP Hanenko.
ParlaMint-UA_2013-06-04-m0.u189	Please pass the word to Oleg Orotyuk.
ParlaMint-UA_2013-06-04-m0.u190	Pass it on, please.
ParlaMint-UA_2013-06-04-m0.u191	The faction of the All-Ukrainian Union "Freedom" fully supports this bill and not only because the authors have spoken from the opposition parties, but because the bill is actually a national bill because the people who are currently watching the meetings of the Supreme Council want to see how the national electorate, who claimed six months ago that they would reduce government expenditures, the unjustified benefits, will vote in this session room. We are well aware that the adoption of this bill will enable the election programmes of many political powers to be implemented, because, in particular, the President-in-Office has claimed that the state apparatus will be reduced. If this bill is implemented, we will have the opportunity to halve the President's Office, the President's Administration, the Cabinet Secretary, and the Supreme Council of Ukraine. Similarly, the implementation of the bill will enable our citizens to expect a higher retirement rate rather than a higher pension. Because the restriction imposed by the bill provides that state officials of the highest level are the President, the National Deputies, the members of the Cabinet of Ministers of Ukraine will receive a pension that does not exceed ten living minimums. Only when this rule is implemented by our decision will we be able to make and increase pensions for our citizens. Similarly, the implementation of this bill will enable our officials, the President, to move ministers into ordinary civil transport and to experience all the advantages of how our citizens use electric vehicles, car transport, how they stand in traffic on our streets. So, in fact, we are now. There is an opportunity for all of us to vote in favour of a bill that all voters will be grateful to the relevant political forces that support it. On behalf of the faction of the All-Ukrainian Union "Freedom" I call upon all to vote, all those deputies who went to the elections and promised their voters that they would not care for their privileges, not their salaries, not their business, but the interests of ordinary voters, ordinary ordinary citizens of Ukraine. Glory to Ukraine!
ParlaMint-UA_2013-06-04-m0.u192	Please, Party of Regions, National MP Smithyuch.
ParlaMint-UA_2013-06-04-m0.u193	Dear Vladimir Vasilovich, distinguished colleagues! I've always acted personally, and I'm going to speak for our spending on the state administration apparatus, including the Supreme Council. But at the same time, if this is the case, I ask, Vladimir Vasilovich, to inform us on Friday, and consider that this is my request, to inform the national deputies and all Ukrainian citizens of how much State funds have been used for the activities of the previous Supreme Council heads, their deputies in the aviation sector, some meetings at a higher level, cars and other expenses, as well as the protection of these officials. Because if we're speaking out of the moral purity of this issue, then we have to say that "I, as a matter of fact, have renounced the state's protection, the militia escort, the other measures envisaged for this position," then I understand that this person can influence or may take the initiative to cut government spending. If this was not the case in the current position but was in opposition today, I feel it is my assessment. I'm appraising that this is a political pianist. At the same time, I share the view that the costs, including those of the Supreme Council today, should be reduced, including by a car park. Because there are some deputies who order a car every day from work at home and so forth, and there are some deputies who never use it at all. Whether you want to fly or want to drive or want to use travel and so on, is it time for us national deputies to determine whether you want to fly? This amount must be limited.
ParlaMint-UA_2013-06-04-m0.u194	Let me finish.
ParlaMint-UA_2013-06-04-m0.u195	But it is not that one MP uses these services every day and criticizes authority, while the other does not criticize and remain silent. That's why I don't support this bill, but please, Vladimir Vasilovich, bring information to the people's deputies, namely, how much money has been spent and how much money spent. Thank you.
ParlaMint-UA_2013-06-04-m0.u196	Ukraine’s Company. Zubczewski.
ParlaMint-UA_2013-06-04-m0.u197	Alexander Zubchevsky, the Communist faction. Well, first of all, I would like to draw the attention of the tellers and all our colleagues to the fact that the Communist faction will support this bill. We have always opposed unwarranted benefits for officials and officials working in the higher authorities. Secondly, we find that in 20 years the benefits for senior officials have increased hundreds and thousands of times. At the same time, the social protection of our citizens has been reduced by a thousand times. This concerns both workers, veterans and students and academics. Secondly, when those who are introducing the bill today are reportedly in favour of social benefits and the abolition of benefits, they forget that they have been in power for five years and their thumbs have not been struck for the removal of unjustifiable benefits. I would also like to recall that during Soviet times the Supreme Council of Ukraine worked on a social basis. That is what we now call on our constituents and our colleagues to do. [[B in m in s a l in]] And thirdly, I also want to remind myself, because some here have political amnesia, if that's the case. That the drafter of the bill, which he delivered today as the head of the Supreme Council of Ukraine in 2006, had repaired the rest room of the Chief of Staff of the Supreme Council and had spent more than 300,000 budget resources on it. This is his true face, a fighter for seemingly unjust benefits! Once again, the Communist faction will vote in favour of this bill! Thank you.
ParlaMint-UA_2013-06-04-m0.u198	I'm asking you, from the strike faction of the Black People's Deputy.
ParlaMint-UA_2013-06-04-m0.u199	Roman Czernega, Vitaly Klitschak Faction. Dear Vladimir Vasilovich! Deputies! You know, first of all, I would like to remind you that on the first day of the new council's work, December 12, we registered the draft Law (1075) amending the Law on the Status of the People's Deputy. Actually, it's about abolishing a number of benefits, which are also mentioned in this bill. As far as Law 2221 is concerned. You know, of course, the strike faction will support this bill. Because that situation in the state today, that number of benefits that the President has and the members of the Supreme Council have no practice in any European state. How can we accept that when a million dollars are spent on feeding the head of state and a grandmother in a store asks a foreigner to buy her a pound of potatoes for a few bracelets?Oh, my God!
ParlaMint-UA_2013-06-04-m0.u200	We're done. Just a minute, please. He didn't call your name! He said. Please.
ParlaMint-UA_2013-06-04-m0.u201	Oleg Lazko, Radical Party. Dear colleagues, I don't think it's a secret to any of you that we live in a country of total social injustice when millions of Ukrainian citizens get up in the morning, lie down, think about where to earn a penny and feed the family. And most of us: the president, the government, the officials -- they don't think about anything because they do.
ParlaMint-UA_2013-06-04-m0.u202	Deputies.
ParlaMint-UA_2013-06-04-m0.u203	I said, and most of the deputies. They don't think about anything, because the weeds themselves crawl in their mouths with the cream. Thus, the issue of the cancellation of the benefits was long overdue. The benefits must be lifted! Social justice in the country must be restored! Millions of people today are looking at the Supreme Council, and millions of people want to see if you have a conscience when you promised to call off the benefits before the elections. Now we will see how you will vote, whether you will remember what you promised the people!
ParlaMint-UA_2013-06-04-m0.u204	Deputies! Turn on the Yatzenuk microphone for a minute.
ParlaMint-UA_2013-06-04-m0.u205	Here some of the Party of Regions asked questions. So I'm going to answer your question immediately. First. As Head of Parliament, I did not fly charter planes. The other one. As Head of Parliament, I have saved 5 million budget money on specialty occasions. Third. As Head of Parliament, I turned down the state residence. Four. As the former Head of Parliament has renounced the land and also the state residence in Concha-Spas. Fifth. As the former Head of Parliament, he refused the car and the escort provided by the proper arrangement. And finally. I have the moral right to introduce such a bill. And you and your President have no right to speak at all about working for the people of Ukraine. As for the Communist Party, I would advise you. You're going to become a capitalist party, or you're going to be richer soon than the Party of Regions.
ParlaMint-UA_2013-06-04-m0.u206	Is there no more replica? I'll bet you a vote. I'm asking for your attention! Prepared for the vote. I'm betting on a draft bill of 2221 on the abolition of unjustified benefits and entitlements for persons authorized to perform the functions of the State to be accepted as a basis. Please vote. [[13:56:16]] For 203 Against - 1, held - 21, did not vote - 165. The decision is not taken. The factions. Region Party 10, Parenthood 73, Strike 38, Freedom 31, Company 31, non-fractional 20. I'm betting on a bill for re-reading. People's deputies please identify themselves. [[13:57:18]] For 204 Against 0, held – 20, not voted – The law is rejected. The factions. Ladies and gentlemen, I'm waiting for you at 4:00. And now I'm calling this morning's session closed.
