ParlaMint-UA_2013-11-21-m0.u1	Good morning, distinguished national MPs! In Ukraine, Alexander Kwasniewski and Mr. Pet Cox are visiting the European Parliament’s monitoring mission. Let us welcome them, wish them a fruitful visit to our nation. [[Applause]] People's deputies, please prepare for registration. Turn on the "Race" system. [[10:04:06]] There were 413 national deputies registered in the hall. The morning session of the Supreme Council of Ukraine is open. Dear National Deputies! Guests of the Supreme Council! I'd like a moment of your attention. On Saturday, November 23rd, Ukraine and the world will celebrate the 80th anniversary of the memory of the millions of victims of Holodomor in 1932-33. These terrible years will never be forgotten. The memory of the innocent forever in our hearts is bright. Please honor the memory of all the victims of the Holodomor 32-33 years of silence. Their eternal memory and the Kingdom of Heaven. [[A Minute of Silence]] Please sit down. Dear national deputies, life goes on. Today is the birthday of the Ukrainian National Deputies. Let's congratulate Jaroslav Jaroslavovich Gink on his birthday. Constantine Alexandrovich Guzenka, birthday. And Natalia Vasilovna Novak with her birthday. We wish them good and good. [[Applause]] Ladies and gentlemen, you have an order of the day. So let's move on to the agenda. Consider a second reading. Draft Act (Registration No. 3396) amending certain Ukrainian legislative acts to improve electoral legislation. Second reading, with short preparation. The report is given to the Head of the Committee on State Building and Local Self - Rule by David Vajawich Zhuvania. Please.
ParlaMint-UA_2013-11-21-m0.u2	Honourable Chairman, Honorary Colleagues, to the draft Ukrainian Law on Amendments to Certain Legislative Acts on Improving Election Legislation (Registration No. 3396) (second reading). At the request of the Supreme Council of Ukraine, the Committee on State Building and Local Self-Government considered at its meetings on 18 and 20 November 2013 the comments and proposals of the subjects of the legislative initiative to the draft Ukrainian Law on Amendments to certain Ukrainian legislative acts on improving electoral legislation (registration number 3396). Presented to the Ukrainian National Deputies: Alexander Ephraim, Volodymyr Olijnik, Dmitr Špenov. But adopted at the Supreme Council of Ukraine as a result of the first reading and based on November 8, 2013, with a reduced procedure of up to 7 days. In carrying out the mandate of the Supreme Council of Ukraine and using Rule 116 of the Supreme Council of Ukraine, the Committee ensured that, within a 7-day period, all Ukrainian national MPs who considered it necessary to submit them would be accepted. In total, out of the 19 Ukrainian national deputies representing all parliamentary MPs, 457 made proposals, of which 79 were considered as part of the committee, 11 were included, with editorial detail 1, 366 were rejected. I would like to point out that 240 of the proposals made did not meet the requirements of part one of article 116 of the Supreme Council's Rules of Procedure, according to which proposals and amendments to the draft bill, which is being prepared for second reading, can only be submitted to the text of the bill. Parts, paragraphs, sentences accepted by the Supreme Council as a basis. Among these suggestions were many valid ones that merit attention. However, according to the rules of the Rules, the committee for the agreement of all its members rejected the above - mentioned proposals. The final draft of the bill is prepared by a committee initiated by the Chief Legal Authority of the Supreme Council with observations. As a result of the general discussion, the Committee unanimously agreed to recommend to the Supreme Council of Ukraine, in accordance with article 123, paragraph 3, of the Supreme Council of Ukraine's Rules of Procedure, a draft of the Ukraine Act amending certain Ukrainian legislative acts to improve electoral legislation (registration number 3396) as a result of the second reading, to be adopted in a second reading and as a whole. I would like to point out that during the preparation of the text of the adopted law for signature by the Head of the Supreme Council of Ukraine, the committee, together with the Chief Legal Authority, will undertake its technical and legal work. Dear colleagues, also note that the document was prepared for consideration in a short period of time.
ParlaMint-UA_2013-11-21-m0.u3	Let me finish.
ParlaMint-UA_2013-11-21-m0.u4	You're given a comparison table. The right column is not an editorial adopted in the first reading, as stated in the title, but an editorial proposed by the committee. Please consider this a technical clarification. Please support the committee's decision. Thank you for your attention.
ParlaMint-UA_2013-11-21-m0.u5	Make a decision for the committee to understand.
ParlaMint-UA_2013-11-21-m0.u6	In the other one. As a result of the second reading, accept it in a second reading and in general.
ParlaMint-UA_2013-11-21-m0.u7	Thank you. Have a seat. Dear colleagues, has the committee's proposal been understood? No one insists on considering amendments? People's deputies, please prepare for the vote. Have a seat. Please prepare for the vote. I'm going to ask you a question for a vote. I am voting on draft Act (No.3396) amending some of the Ukrainian legislative acts to improve legislation on elections for adoption in the second reading and in general. People's deputies, please vote. [[10:12:46]] For 365 Against -0, held -0. Didn't vote -58. Decision taken. The factions. Region Party - 176, Fatherland - 88, Vitaly Klicka - 38, Freedom - 35, Companies - 0, non-fractional - 28. Which I salute all of you with. Ladies and gentlemen, let's move on to first-reading issues. I ask the factions for a minute to make my proposals. Please, Arseny Yatzenuk, one minute.
ParlaMint-UA_2013-11-21-m0.u8	Ladies and gentlemen, Julia Timoshenko has urged the Ukrainian opposition to vote in favour of all the bills that enable Ukraine to sign the Agreement with the European Union, despite the fact that these bills are far from perfect. And today we have demonstrated in the Elections Act that the opposition is unanimous in the European elections. Mr. Head, I request you. Before we consider all the bills relating to the release of Yulia Timoshenko and the possibility of her receiving medical care, to include the bill in the agenda of day 3599, which was passed yesterday by the committee, it will be the fifth bill. This bill is written by members of the opposition working group. In order to give us a clear answer today and remove all the masks. That is, it is requested that Bill 3599, introduced by the opposition and members of the working group, be considered in the order of the day and in the fifth. Thank you.
ParlaMint-UA_2013-11-21-m0.u9	Yeah, I'll give it to you. We're going to take a look at this. Please, strike faction, Irina Heratchenko, one minute. Please.
ParlaMint-UA_2013-11-21-m0.u10	Dear colleagues, in open access, I have found, as a minimum, 17 references to what the President of Ukraine has said about the issue of Timoshenko's need to be resolved in the legal field. And today it is Parliament's responsibility to resolve this issue in the legal field, especially the party of power. You didn't repeat once that the President's words should be done, not discussed. The opposition stands ready to join in today to carry out this position after this problem has been resolved in the right field. And we're joining our colleagues in Fatherland and Freedom, and we're asking you to put into order the daily law that we talked about in our working group. Moreover, the faction of the Party of the Regions has made many important and constructive additions to the law that Arseni Petrovich spoke of. And it's going to be really this consolidated position of the Supreme Council. Please consider this bill today in the sessional room. Thank you.
ParlaMint-UA_2013-11-21-m0.u11	Thank you. Please, the "Freedom" union. To whom is the word? The faction manager. Oleg Tuggnibok, please.
ParlaMint-UA_2013-11-21-m0.u12	Thank you. Oleg Tuggnibok, faction of the All-Ukrainian Freedom Union. Dear Society, today we have started work with the fact that everyone, the whole hall, has honored the moment of silence with tragic, "black days" for Ukraine -- the days of Holodomor in 1932-1933 and honored the memory of the victims. Vladimir Vasilovich, thank you so much for doing this today, but this has united. And I hope that this Thursday for Ukraine will not be a "black Thursday" and we will be able to vote on all the necessary so-called Euro-integration laws. The "Freedom" faction of the All-Ukrainian Union will even vote for all initiatives with one goal in order to sign a positive association of Ukraine with Europe within a week in Vilnius. Because this is our way, this is our future. And just before that, we urge everyone to be free of any distortions, there is no intrigue -- our path to Europe today. And our decision to vote for everything is.
ParlaMint-UA_2013-11-21-m0.u13	Thank you. The faction of the Party of Regions, National Deputy Vladimir Olijnik, please.
ParlaMint-UA_2013-11-21-m0.u14	Dear Vladimir Vasilovich! Dear colleagues! Of course, the question is not simple, almost in Europe, but there is no norm that would allow convicted persons to be treated outside the country where they are being punished. We write down virtually innovation and it's a complicated and not simple process, because there are positives and there are negatives. At the same time, there are not enough voices in the opposition to make such a decision on your own. We don't have enough votes in the Party of Regions and non-fractional ones to support us in making that decision. And so on November 8, the Supreme Council formed a working group to find consensus, and we need to keep working. Today, the opposition, by putting these questions to a vote, essentially wants to close the door, and we want to preserve the perspective of this issue. Thank you for your attention.
ParlaMint-UA_2013-11-21-m0.u15	Thank you. The faction of the Ukrainian Company, leader of the faction, Peter Simonenko.
ParlaMint-UA_2013-11-21-m0.u16	Simonenko, the faction of the Company. I want to inform all Ukrainian citizens that the faction of the Company and the Company as a whole has contributed because the people of Ukraine have expressed their desire to address the issue of the vector of external economic integration only after the referendum. I'm informing the representatives of Europe, who are here in this room, and they're no longer watching, but they're controlling the factions' vote as to how they're doing what Europe requires of Ukraine. So this is how the people of Ukraine, me and Mr. Kwasniewsky and Cox have gathered 3.5 million signatures that require a referendum and only then look at what has to do with the vector of integration. All that is being done today is the abuse of Ukraine’s independence and the will of the people of Ukraine. You do not declare, but you are already, for example, forcing the Supreme Council of Ukraine to accept what is good for you today. And it's not European values, it's a disgrace! This is a lack of confidence in Ukraine’s political independence. Thank you.
ParlaMint-UA_2013-11-21-m0.u17	Thank you. All the faction leaders expressed their thoughts. I'm asking for the attention of the people's deputies. Let's figure it out. Dear National Deputies! At this time, six laws have been registered in the Supreme Council of Ukraine on the possibility of treatment abroad for persons sentenced to be deprived of their liberty. Four of these bills were included in the weekly schedule of plenary meetings on Tuesday, namely: number 3461, National Deputy Angelika Labunski, number 3479, National Deputys Arsenius Yacenuk, Vitaly Klitschka, and Oleg Tajnibok, number 2453, National Deputy Sergei Mishchenka, number 3526, National Deputy Vladimir Kupczak. A temporary working group to draft a bill on the possibility of treatment abroad for persons sentenced to imprisonment has not yet completed its project. Draft laws: Number 3596 of the national MP, Oleg Láška, and number 3599, which was completed and introduced on November 18, by a group of Ukrainian national deputies led by Andrey Cosemykin, the committee discussed last night. So I'm proposing the inclusion of these two bills, as requested by the MPs, into today's agenda. I ask you to prepare for the vote. I am voting on the proposal to include in today's agenda a plenary session of the draft Law (registration number 3596) (national deputy Oleg Láska) on the release of Timoshenko Yulia Volodymyrna from further punishment. Do you understand? I'll bet you a vote. People's deputies, please vote. [[10:22:41]] For 372 Against 0, held – 0 did not vote – 54. Decision taken. Factions: Region Party - 180, Parenthood - 90, Vitalia Klicka - 38, Freedom - 35, Company - 0, non-fractional - 29. I am voting on the proposal to include in today’s agenda the daily plenary session of the draft Law (No. 3599) (a group of Ukrainian national deputies led by Andrey Cosemykin) to amend some of the Ukrainian laws on the implementation of the principle of humanism in the execution of certain types of punishment. Dear colleagues, do you understand the offer? I would like to place this motion on the vote and ask the people's deputies to vote. [[10:24:00]] For 369 Against 0, holding back - 0, not voting - 56. Decision taken. The factions. The factions. Region Party 178, Parenthood 90, Vitalia Klicka 37, Freedom 34, Company 0, non-fractional 30. I'd like to ask the people's deputies what are the proposals? How will we address these questions? Short-term procedure. Please, who supports the summary procedure, ask the national deputies to vote. Don't yell, vote. Please vote. [[10:25:02]] For 359 Against - 1, held - 0, not voted - 64. Decision taken. I'm proposing to the people's deputies: to give the floor to all the actors of the bill for two minutes, to all of them, they're presenting. Then you'll sign up from factions for two minutes and we'll make decisions under every law. Do you have a deal? It's a deal. [[B in m in s a l in]] I'm on it. The procedure is agreed. I'm asking the National Deputy of Ukraine, Angelika Victorian Labunski. You have two minutes to present your bill.
ParlaMint-UA_2013-11-21-m0.u18	Good afternoon, colleagues! Good afternoon, distinguished guests! Good afternoon, voters! You know, I want to tell you all that we are present today at the historic meeting of the Supreme Council. I think it's significant that this is the second event in our country's history after gaining independence. You know, let's not pretend that we're adopting laws about treatment for convicts abroad today. We do not even accept today the Law on the Liberation of Julius Volodymyrna Timoshenko. We are today adopting laws -- we are today choosing the path that our country will follow. What we have already entered the history of this country, believe me, is no longer a question of anyone. But what our descendants and you will say about us depends solely on us. And I'm going to be very sorry when our descendants tell us that we've lost an unknown time when Ukraine can develop in an honest, just, democratic way. Tell me, please, today we've discussed the problem, today we're trying to solve the problem of selective justice. Please tell me, do we want to go to Europe? I don't think we have the right to miss this path. I believe that today 60 percent of our people want European values in our country. It's not just about the economy, but it's about the economy, because today, as one of the representatives of the Party of Regions said, the investor who comes to the countries, he's in the tremors. No, sir, he's not in shocks; he's naked from this country, and he's been skinned by ten skins. And you think something's going to change in pension reform? Do you think anything will change in medical reform? No, it's not. As long as the economy doesn't work, nobody in our country is going to change anything today. That's why I'm calling today.
ParlaMint-UA_2013-11-21-m0.u19	Let me finish.
ParlaMint-UA_2013-11-21-m0.u20	to the members of the Party of the Regions. I'm asking you to vote on a project. Let us not fail, do the will of our constituents, and do the President's will, which also speaks of the European path. Thank you. And I ask everyone to vote.
ParlaMint-UA_2013-11-21-m0.u21	Thank you. Dear colleagues, dear colleagues, after the report of all the drafters, I will give the floor to the chairman of the committee. And then we'll discuss all the laws. I invite you to report to the Ukrainian national deputy Arsenius Petrovich Yatsenuk. Please, Arseny Petrovich.
ParlaMint-UA_2013-11-21-m0.u22	Honorable National Deputies of Ukraine! This is the moment of truth. Moment of truth for President Viktor Yanukovic of Ukraine. Is he really willing to sign a treaty with the European Union, or has it been a lie and a trade by the Ukrainian State over the past two years just to buy a seat in 2015. We, as the Ukrainian opposition, vote in favour of all the bills necessary for the signing of the agreement. Today, Julia Timoshenko has appealed to the entire Ukrainian opposition and to the Ukrainian Parliament to support the Electoral Act, to support the Prosecutor's Office Act and to support any law on the provision of treatment irrespective of its drafting. This is about the future of the country. Both Julia Timoshenko and the Ukrainian opposition are well aware that for the next 360 years, we do not have to wait for the historic choice of the Ukrainian state to go to. We have no choice today between the West and the East. We have only today a choice between the future and the past. And Ukraine must go into the future, into our united European future. I am now speaking only to Viktor Yanukovic, who should instruct his party and vote for the laws that enable Ukraine to become a worthy associate member of the European Union. And now we're going to see on the parliamentary table whether Viktor Yanukovic will sign a treaty in Vilnius or not. As the Ukrainian opposition, we made it clear that all laws would be upheld.
ParlaMint-UA_2013-11-21-m0.u23	Finish up.
ParlaMint-UA_2013-11-21-m0.u24	Even though these laws are far from perfect. But this is the future of our country, this is the future of the people of Ukraine. And for this future, we have made every concession. Julia Timoshenko made all the concessions. And we expect action, not words from Yanukovich and his party. Glory to Ukraine!
ParlaMint-UA_2013-11-21-m0.u25	Thank you. The National Deputy of Ukraine, Sergey Grigorovich Mishchenko, is invited to report. Talk to me.
ParlaMint-UA_2013-11-21-m0.u26	Dear citizens of Ukraine! Ladies and gentlemen, welcome! Today, the Lord God gives us a chance to enter history or get caught in history. In order not to become engrossed in history, Parliament today needs to show its complexity and unity, as these walls have shown when voting for Ukraine’s independence. Do you think we're voting for the bill today? No, it's not. They're not bills today, they're the keys to Europe's door. But if we throw out all six keys today, then we'll fight at that door with our heads. And when we've broken our foreheads, we're gonna sit at this door and we're gonna burn this head down. And to make sure that doesn't happen, there's about a dozen applicants in the President's chair. We need to clear all our ratings right now, the anti-ratings of other teams that will fight for their own rep. I want to go to the Regional Party first. Keep your promise when you say that you will vote as one for the law of the Mishchen. And what you're going to do is you're going to do everything you can to then process it and accept it eventually. So I am confident that today all the opposition forces will vote in favour of all six bills, regardless of their last name. Now to the party of power. Show your face to all the people. Think about how after that you get caught up in history. Thank you.
ParlaMint-UA_2013-11-21-m0.u27	Thank you. The National Deputy of Ukraine, Vladimir Romanovich Kupcak, is invited to report. Please, come in.
ParlaMint-UA_2013-11-21-m0.u28	Honorable citizens of Ukraine, today the glorious Christian festival of the archangel Michael. So first of all, I would like to welcome the whole of Ukraine with this magnificent Christian festival. I would like to start by saying that I, Vladimir Kupczak, was a senior in the French district of the United Opposition. Today, I'm a non-fractional, though I remain an opposition MP. I remain faithful to the promises with which I went to the elections, including the abolition of pension reform, and the failure of the land market, and the abolition of the so - called language law and dozens of other promises with which we went to the elections. The most important of these promises is the liberation of Julius Volodymyrna Timoshenko. For me this is the first call, I'm a pretty young politician, although despite my youth, I've had to see in life both vileness and lies and cynicism. However, here in the Supreme Council, it was an absolute savagery for me to face what much can be said. Promises and nothing to do, you can pretend to be a Treasuryman, you can come to the Supreme Council in sports pants, and then you can disrespect the people of Ukraine, and you can wear embroidery, without even being an ethnic Ukrainian, and you can wear shirts with the words, "Wow!"and, in fact, do everything to keep her behind bars and not prevent her from pursuing her own political ambitions of pseudo-oppositional leaders. How easy it is for those who refuse to participate in this theater of hypocrisy to be treated by the press! However, time is running out, and promises remain unfulfilled. Who needs these blank slogans? The situation in the country is really difficult, but it will not be easy to buy on so - called brands, inertially issuing a huge advance of trust to those who ignore all principles for their own benefit. This needs to be done. The law that I have passed completely repeats the bill passed in due course by the leaders of the opposition faction of the Fatherland. The document was actively discussed in factions and included positions of opposition. However, when the prospect of enacting the law became real, it was called off for unknown reasons. So after registering this bill, I propose to find a universal project to achieve unity in Parliament and finally bring Ukraine closer to Europe. Please support this bill. Thank you.
ParlaMint-UA_2013-11-21-m0.u29	Thank you.
ParlaMint-UA_2013-11-21-m0.u30	I invite you to report to the National Deputy of Ukraine, Oleg Valeriyovich Ljasko. Please.
ParlaMint-UA_2013-11-21-m0.u31	Oleg Lazko, Radical Party. The people who spoke before me, fellow MPs, have already stressed what we can today, this day can be either historic or it can be a day of Ukrainian disgrace hundreds of years ahead. I think that both the representatives of the Party of Regions and the representatives of the opposition are aware of the responsibility that lies before us in the coming generations. If we don't get on this European train right now, our assembly is not going to Brazil, let's go to Europe. If we don't get to Europe now, if we don't take this historic chance today, it's everyone's fault. All of them. For the generations to come shall say that both these and these and those like rams upon the bridge have come together, and have stood against one another, until both are brought to ruin. Let's find a common language today. Let's do it today, the world is cuneiform on Timoshenko. Europe says that without Tymoshenko’s release, there will be no agreement. Let's make a decision today. I'm addressing President Yanukovic. Victor Fedorovich, I know you're watching the events in the Supreme Council right now. Don't be afraid. Release Timoshenko. You will do the right thing if you forget about your fears if you stop being afraid of this delicate woman. Because it's about the future of our country. And the last thing I'd like to say. Unlike some who have called for the release of Julia, and today they are yelling for her release, I have the moral right to stand on this stand and demand her release, because I've smelled my trigger and I've done everything I can to make her president of Ukraine. Unfortunately, it didn't. Many of those who did everything to prevent her from becoming president today are wearing a shirt and say they want to release her. I want you to see, the citizens of Ukraine, what the really Farisian Ukrainian policy is. July is free! Ukraine is free!
ParlaMint-UA_2013-11-21-m0.u32	Thank you. I invite you to report to Andrija Anatoliyevich Kožemiakin under Law 3599. And then from the committee. How many minutes do you need? Five? Give me five minutes.
ParlaMint-UA_2013-11-21-m0.u33	Good afternoon! Honorable citizens of Ukraine, honourable Head, honourable members of the European Parliament's monitoring mission, are present! The bill proposed by opposition representatives today needs to be seen as an extreme point of compromise in solving the problem of selective justice in Ukraine. We will recall approaches to solving this problem in part of the politically motivated imprisonment of Yulia Timoshenko. Initially, it was the decriminalization of Criminal Code No. 365, which condemned Julia Timoshenko and other opposition politicians. Then it's about amnesty, pardon, or full rehabilitation. Today we are talking about the minimum temporary release of Timoshenko from punishment to ensure her treatment abroad. We are making these concessions consciously by trying to find consensus with the active authorities and by coming out of the utmost importance for Ukraine to sign the Association Agreement with the European Union. The essence of our project, 3499d, is to legislativeize the possibility of freeing and punishing the convicted person abroad. Once again, this is not about the final, but about the temporary release from punishment, in fact about the suspension of punishment during treatment. The project regulates the legal aspects of the treatment process. Of course, we had a lot of work to do, and in the working group it was really difficult. But today we compromise and show this example. Representatives of opposition factions in the group accepted and included in the bill all 19 paragraphs that were offered by representatives of the Party of the Regions that are part of the working group. Today in this bill, in the new bill, there is no such bill in Europe or in the world, even that bill that we have been shown to be exemplary, I mean, which exists today in Poland, even in Ukraine today, made even more perfectly, professionally and even legally correct. Because the Science and Experimental Authority reminded us and told us that yes, there are significant observations, but in general this bill is perfect. Therefore, honourable colleagues, today Europe is expecting us, from the power of the signal that it will stop the criminal persecution of political opponents and correct the situation with the already applied selective justice. The adoption of this law, the honourable colleagues, but any other one that is represented today, on the possibility of those condemned to be deprived of the will to be treated abroad, should be such a signal today. We're talking to the President, we're talking to the predominant faction of the Party of Regions in Parliament, let's give this signal together. It will be a green light for the signing of the Association Agreement, and thus we will ensure the future of Ukraine's democratic development. As far as these bills are concerned, which have just been submitted. Yes, indeed, the committee will consider them. Unfortunately, a decision has been made in favour of the members of the Party of Regions because we were in the minority. As a result of the first reading of the plenary session, all projects are proposed to send the drafters of the legislative initiative for further work. But today it's not the situation in Ukraine to send any bill to the authors. Colleagues, I'm asking you to make a choice today. Everyone here today has two moments, two motivations: the first is political, because we have to help Ukraine and the Ukrainian people, and the second is moral, which I've already mentioned here. Political is one for which we will not be ashamed then in front of our children and grandchildren. And moral is one for which we will not be ashamed in front of our mothers, daughters and grandchildren. Glory to Ukraine!
ParlaMint-UA_2013-11-21-m0.u34	Thank you. People's deputies would like to sign up to discuss these laws from factions. Freedom, National MP Mishchenko. Please.
ParlaMint-UA_2013-11-21-m0.u35	In these moments, the walls of the Ukrainian Parliament have a new history of Europe. It is up to each one of us to decide whether to start a European Europe for Ukraine, or whether the state will turn to Asia? The Association with the European Union is not just a treaty, it is a return to the European family, a re-establishment of the rule of law, a setting of European standards, a move towards a reduction of total corruption. The Society, in the working group I belong to, prepared a bill on the release of prisoners for treatment abroad. Bill 3599d was drafted and registered, which fully implements the requirements of the European community before Ukraine. The bill provides for a suspension of the sentence for periods of treatment abroad. A person in need of treatment makes a written obligation to return to Ukraine. If a convicted person does not return on time to Ukraine, the law determines the issue of his extradition. We are also aware that the decision to release a period of treatment abroad is approved only if the valid international agreement is with that State that accepts a person for treatment. But society, today we are faced with a question that is not in the legal plane, we are faced with a question on the political plane. Now we have to make a decision for ourselves to sign the Euro-Association Agreement. So Freedom insists on approval, will vote in favour of any bill that will speed up the signing of an association with Europe. The Ukrainian nation should know anyone who does not support the bill and destroys the hope of rebirth of a large, rich, social, and national, just Ukrainian state. Glory to Ukraine!
ParlaMint-UA_2013-11-21-m0.u36	The Fatherland faction, National Deputy Alexander Turchinov. Please.
ParlaMint-UA_2013-11-21-m0.u37	Dear colleagues! Here some who speak from the ruling majority talk about bad legislation. Yes, the laws that are being passed today are inconvenient. This also applies to changes to electoral legislation that do not protect Ukrainian citizens from falsifying the Party of Regions as a result of the elections. This is also true of the law that they fear about the prosecution, which is also weak and does not decide in principle the positions that the Venice Commission even insists on. And certainly it's not an easy law regarding the treatment of Julia Timoshenko, because Julia Timoshenko has committed no crime, she's innocent and should be free without any laws you've invented! [[Applause]] But the opposition, in support of the demands of Europe blocked by the Party of the Regions on the decriminalisation of Ukrainian legislation, on the cessation of political repression, will vote in favour of changes to electoral legislation and for these inadequacies, and for the Procuratorial Act. Why? Because this is what opens the way for Ukraine to Europe, the path that President Viktor Janukovic and the Party of Regions are blocking today. And today's vote will be a demonstration of a position that is ready to lead the country to Europe and who is willing to betray their own country, their own Fatherland and subordinate it to another country, the protectorate of other politicians whose interests contradict the interests of our nation. So, dear colleagues, I'm addressing everyone, this is one of the many votes that will be a sign that will go back tens of years. I'm looking into the region's eyes. Communists are already an unsuspecting political force. This vote will be.
ParlaMint-UA_2013-11-21-m0.u38	Please finish.
ParlaMint-UA_2013-11-21-m0.u39	It is the one that opens or closes Ukraine’s path to the European Union. Ukraine will be in Europe! Glory to Ukraine!
ParlaMint-UA_2013-11-21-m0.u40	Thank you. The faction of the Party of the Regions, National Deputy Hanna Herman.
ParlaMint-UA_2013-11-21-m0.u41	Dear friends! The consensus in this room can only be reached by kindness. You don't have to say who has a perspective in parliament, who doesn't. We need to talk about things that can unite us. When we hear from Fatherland's leader that the President of Ukraine should give instructions to Parliament, I ask myself, does Arseny Petrovich understand where we are going? In Europe, the presidents do not give instructions to parliaments; in Europe, parliaments are independent branches of power; and it is to these standards that we must seek. And we today realize that there is no desire for a consensus on the part of the opposition, we will do everything we can to make sure that the most important and complex issue in this process is not closed so that the point is not placed on it. The president of Ukraine commissioned a working group to produce a bill that would not only care for the fate of one person but for the fate of all society and of all people. Such a working group should continue to work and give the prospect of a positive solution. This is important for us, it is important to keep European standards right now. Not wait for us to go to Europe and then follow standards, but now give some guidance. No one, no president in the world, gives instructions to Parliament, Arsenija Petrovich. This is a little bit of a democracy lesson for you. In general, the Party of the Regions is in favour of finding a consensus in this House to vote on the Public Prosecutor's Act. Unfortunately, Arsenius Petrovich, you did not keep your word. You promised to make 500 amendments.
ParlaMint-UA_2013-11-21-m0.u42	Finish up.
ParlaMint-UA_2013-11-21-m0.u43	And they didn't. At the very least, you don't keep your word. But we will do everything we can to make the European perspective for Ukraine real. Thank you for your attention.
ParlaMint-UA_2013-11-21-m0.u44	Thank you. Vitaly Klitschka, head of Vitaly Klitschko faction.
ParlaMint-UA_2013-11-21-m0.u45	Dear chairman, distinguished colleagues, distinguished guests! I want to talk to the media, to everyone who's watching the broadcast from the Supreme Council right now. Now is the moment of truth, of retreat and drag. Today, the future depends on us. You can tell a lot of things from this rostrum. There have already been many proposals, references to European integration. But one thing is to make suggestions, to talk and talk about European integration, and quite another to do. I'd like to draw your attention: there's going to be a vote. With regard to the opposition forces: we went to everything to take into account all the comments, all the amendments were removed, we went to all the compromises, so that the European bills on which the signing of the agreement in Vilnius would be adopted today in this room. [[Applause]] I encourage everyone to look carefully, and to appreciate people not by word of mouth, but by business. We are now ready to vote in favour of any decisions that the European Union requires in order for European integration to be signed. Because European integration is, firstly, investment in the country; secondly, jobs; thirdly, social guarantees for everyone; and most importantly, confidence in tomorrow. I'm sure you'll have the opportunity, in a few minutes, to see who's not at the word, but at work is doing everything to make Ukraine Europe. Thank you.
ParlaMint-UA_2013-11-21-m0.u46	Thank you. The faction of the Company of Ukraine, you have a minute. People’s MP, Peter Simonenko, leader of the faction.
ParlaMint-UA_2013-11-21-m0.u47	Dear citizens of Ukraine, I inform you that the Company faction in this Sabbath will not participate. And I inform you that today, on the demands of the European Community, they are trying to pass legislation on the release of an oligarch, and for 45 million citizens of Ukraine, the requirements for which the oligarchs now vote: to raise prices and tariffs for gas and electricity to the level of the world are for you, citizens of Ukraine, to raise tariffs for housing and utility services – this is for you, citizens of honor; to cut down on social funding, i.e. not to finance laws on Afghans, Chernobyls, children of war, veterans of the Great War – it is your children to ensure the protection of social minorities, marriages and so on. All of this is a betrayal of national interests. And I want you to know, honourable citizens, who are traitors to national interests. And the last. I still hope that today is the first time that we need to understand what's going on.
ParlaMint-UA_2013-11-21-m0.u48	Let me finish.
ParlaMint-UA_2013-11-21-m0.u49	I hope that today, through the transcript, there is a protocol for an investigator to investigate the facts of treason. That's what we need to understand today. And how the opposition speaks. I want to say that they're going to vote today and for fuck's sake by selling to the Ukrainian people. Thank you.
ParlaMint-UA_2013-11-21-m0.u50	Thank you. Please, a line, a minute. People's deputy Yatsenuk.
ParlaMint-UA_2013-11-21-m0.u51	Our political opponents can boldly write in their statutes about what lies are rises on the political line. That's why I want to now demonstrate 12 statements by members of the opposition about the appeal of all, namely: 459 amendments to the Ukrainian Pro Prosecutor's Office Act. Julia Timoshenko called for a vote in favour of the law. And we'll vote. But there is a reference to historical responsibility. I'd like to say criminal responsibility. When it comes to the enforcement of the law, I will remind the party and President Yanukovic. He signed the National Security Framework Act, which provides only for EU membership. If the agreement is not signed, according to article 111 of the Ukrainian Criminal Code, treason is a national betrayal. That is, the actions deliberately committed by a Ukrainian citizen to the detriment of the sovereignty and territorial integrity of the Ukrainian State.
ParlaMint-UA_2013-11-21-m0.u52	Finish up. Finish up, talk to me.
ParlaMint-UA_2013-11-21-m0.u53	I'm done. 10 to 15 years in prison, Mr. President.
ParlaMint-UA_2013-11-21-m0.u54	Ladies and gentlemen, please sit down. Calm down. Let's move on to legislative decisions. I want to inform the deputies. Kirilenko Ivan Grigorovich on vacation. Yeah? I'm on my way. There's Ivan Grigorovich. Next. National MP Moshak on vacation. Yeah? None. People's deputy Povali. None. On vacation. They're sick. Valerius Vitaliovich Karpuntsov Yes. He's sick, but he's here. Yeah, right? Is there a national deputy? I'm here. Next, the hospital's national deputy Sabi Igor Mihajlovich. Is it? I'm here. National Deputy Parubko Omelyan Nikonović. Is it? It's written in the hospital. National MP Maria Vasilovna Matios In the hospital. I don't have any other information. Prepared? May I have your attention, please? I'm betting on a draft Act (No. 3461) (National Deputy of the Ukraine of Angela Victoria Labunski) amending article 84 of the Criminal Code of Ukraine on the possibility of treatment abroad for persons sentenced to be deprived of their liberty -- to be accepted as a basis. People's deputies, please vote. [[11:00:10]] For a hundred and Against – 0, held – 17, not – 208. The decision is not taken. The factions. Region Party - 1, Parenthood - 88, Vitalia Klicka - 41, Freedom - 35, Company - 0, non-fractional - 29. I am betting on a draft Act (No. 3479) (National Deputy of Ukraine, Yatsenyuk Arseny Petrovic) prohibiting selective justice and removing obstacles to the signing of the Association Agreement between Ukraine and the European Union and its member states – to be adopted as a basis. People's deputies, please vote. [[11:01:20]] For a hundred and Against 0, held – 18, not voted – 207. The decision is not taken. The factions. Regional Party - 0, Fatherland - 90, Vitalia Klicka - 41, Freedom - 35, Company - 0, non-fractional - 26. I'm betting on a draft bill (2453a) (the draft national MP Mishchenko Sergio Grigorovitch) to amend the Ukrainian Criminal Enforcement Code on the protection of the right of convicted persons to treatment abroad -- to be adopted as a basis. People's deputies, please vote. [[11:02:31]] For-195 Against – 1, held – 21, not voted – 201. The decision is not taken. The factions. Region Party - 1, Parenthood - 90, Vitalia Klicka - 41, Freedom - 35, Company - 0, non-fractional - 28. I am voting on draft Act (No3526) (National Deputy Vladimir Romanović Kupczak) amending certain Ukrainian legislation on the humanisation of legislation on the prior imprisonment and the protection of the constitutional rights and freedoms of persons taken into custody, persons sentenced to deprivation of liberty, as well as those sentenced to treatment in health facilities outside the institutions for the execution of sentences, to be accepted as a basis. People's deputies, please vote. [[11:03:54]] For 193 Against 0, held -22, not -202. The decision is not taken. The factions. Region Party - 1, Parenthood - 90, Vitalia Klicka - 40, Freedom - 35, Company - 0, non-fractional - 27. I am voting on draft Act (No3596) (National Deputy of Ukraine Lásko Oleg Valeriyovich) on the release of Timoshenko Yulia Volodymyrna from further punishment – to be accepted as a basis. People's deputies, please vote. [[11:04:56]] For 190 Against – 1, held – 21, not voted – 205. The decision is not taken. The factions. Region Party - 1, Parenthood - 90, Vitalia Klicka - 41, Freedom - 45, Companies - 0, non-fractional - 23. I am betting on a draft Act (No. 3599) (National Deputy of Ukraine, Kozemyakin Andrija Anatoliyovich and others) amending certain laws of Ukraine on the implementation of the principle of humanism in the execution of certain types of punishments – to be adopted as a basis. People's deputies, please vote. [[11:06:00]] For-195 Against 0, holding back - 23, not voting - 197. The decision is not taken. The factions. Region Party - 1, Parenthood - 90, Vitaly Klicka - 41, Freedom - 35, Companies - 0, non-fractional - 28.
ParlaMint-UA_2013-11-21-m0.u55	Deputies are asked to speak from factions one minute at a time. Please. It's a strike. Please, Irina Heratschenko. Or someone? Please, Irina Heratschenko, one minute.
ParlaMint-UA_2013-11-21-m0.u56	Dear colleagues, we are turning from our faction and from three opposition factions to the President of Ukraine, but today we are to assemble a working group on pardons and consider the appeals of the presidents of Cox, Kwasniewsky and 173 Ukrainian national deputies and pardon Julia Timoshenko. It's a call from non-physical people, it's a call from millions of Ukrainian citizens, it's a call from 28 European countries and 500 million Europeans. And I turn from our faction to Mr. Cox and Mr. Kwasniewsky. Please, the time has come to impose sanctions on those who are currently curbing Ukraine’s European integration. These people are talking about some economic damage. So let's think about the economic damage that Ukraine and the European Union are suffering today because of these people who have slowed down European integration. Please don't let them into Europe, let them dump in the Customs Union.
ParlaMint-UA_2013-11-21-m0.u57	I beg you, Fatherland faction, one minute. Arseny Yatzenyuk, one minute. Please.
ParlaMint-UA_2013-11-21-m0.u58	The honourable members of Parliament, this was President Janukovic, who was afraid to sign the Order on the pardon of Timoshenko and "threw the ball" on Parliament's side, actually hiding because of his own fear for those whom he had brought to the Supreme Council in the form of a Party of Regions, and offered to enact legislation in Parliament and at the same time gave instructions to his party not to vote in favour of any law. This is personally President Janukovic, who stops Ukraine's progress on its way to the European Union. Janukovic refused to vote in favour of the law, his party refused. Mr. Head, I'm officially handing over the draft Ukrainian Presidential order for the pardon of Julia Timoshenko. Let him sign the decree, and let him not be afraid that his political opponent will be free. Glory to Ukraine!
ParlaMint-UA_2013-11-21-m0.u59	Freedom union, minute, Oleg Tuggnibok. Please.
ParlaMint-UA_2013-11-21-m0.u60	Brothers and sisters in Ukraine! I think now you've all seen who's really guilty of the huge threat that there might be no association with European structures in Vilnius -- that's the Party of Regions and Communists. And all of their so-called "snatches," all of their teasing for not voting because they're not so comatose, and there's not so much a dot -- it's all a lie and a lie, it's all a manipulation of people's consciousness. Party of regions, we are ready to vote in favour of any draft decision you have proposed, any one! Offer and do not play games. Since you put the future of the Ukrainian State at risk in this case, you are concerned only about the interests of your own pocket. And with regard to addressing our European partners, I would like to ask you to vote for an association.
ParlaMint-UA_2013-11-21-m0.u61	Finish up.
ParlaMint-UA_2013-11-21-m0.u62	Vote a positive association even in this case. The motivation for your positive vote should not be the bandit regime in Ukraine today, but should be the future of Ukraine and the future of Europe. Glory to Ukraine!
ParlaMint-UA_2013-11-21-m0.u63	I'm asking for a party of regions, national deputy Vladimir Olijnik. Please.
ParlaMint-UA_2013-11-21-m0.u64	Dear colleagues! Do not set up a political Sabbath on this issue. [[B in m in s a l in]] There's some strange hysteria in this room and an incorruptible joy on your faces that this question will no longer be considered today. But we won't give you that chance. We call for work in the task force, to continue to seek compromise. It's not a simple question. In order to confirm, I will go to the European Court of Justice, which has twice considered Julia Timoshenko’s concerns about treatment in Germany and rejected this concern. So stop shabbashing in the Supreme Council. Don't put a dot on Euro-Integration. Do not be happy that we have not made a decision today. We maintain the possibility of making such a decision in the near future. Thank you for your attention.
ParlaMint-UA_2013-11-21-m0.u65	May I see the faction of the Company of Ukraine, the leader of the faction Peter Simonenko.
ParlaMint-UA_2013-11-21-m0.u66	Dear citizens of Ukraine! I'm once again informing you that the faction of the Company will be consistent and will insist that the will be done, your 3.5 million citizens of Ukraine, is to hold a referendum on the problem of selecting the vector of integration. That's the first one. Next. Today, we want the Supreme Council to first consider the issue of protecting Ukrainian citizens and, in this case, protect against the European Union's demands to increase housing tariffs by introducing a moratorium, as proposed by the Company faction. The Company’s faction has suggested that today’s ban on the removal of housing be imposed on the European community, not to finance social programs, and to limit subsidies to our citizens. We also propose today to adopt a law on the introduction of 0.5 percent of a penny for the delay in paying wages every day in favour of Ukrainian citizens who are not paid a salary. This is to be done, not by the Sabbath that is today.
ParlaMint-UA_2013-11-21-m0.u67	Thank you. Please, People's Deputies, one minute.
ParlaMint-UA_2013-11-21-m0.u68	Oleg Lazko. Today, in fact, you, the regionals and the communists, did not vote for the liberation of Timoshenko, you did not vote for the liberation of Ukraine, you did not vote for the future of the country for a thousand years ahead. And I'm looking at you, and I'm going to tell you, you're sitting there today, smiling, and I'd like to look at your faces when you're sitting in a coma, in a sad union. That's when they send you there, no one's going to bring you any "co-workers" and no one's going to carry you. I'll see how you laugh! Future generations of Ukrainians, today Ukrainian citizens curse you. You have no honor, no conscience, no responsibility. You do not think for the people or for yourself or for your children. Because you and your children. Do you think you'll bury them in Europe? No, you're all going to be here because there's NCD, KGB, FSB, and so on. You have no sense, you have no sense of patriotism! You can't see your nose anymore! You're not politicians, you're darmoids who sit on the neck of the Ukrainian people! Get you parasites in the neck! Shame on the Party of Regions and Communists!
ParlaMint-UA_2013-11-21-m0.u69	Ladies and gentlemen, I am addressing the head of the task force, Vasilyev Hennady Andriyovich. Hennaday Andriyovich, I ask you to gather a working group and work and make an offer to make a law that the Supreme Council should consider. Do we have a deal? [[B in m in s a l in]] Let us now consider the matter in the second reading. Ladies and gentlemen, it is now time for the plenary to consider a bill (registration number 3541) on the prosecutor's office. In preparation for the second reading, 804 proposals were made by Ukrainian national deputies. During the consideration of the bill in the Committee on Legislative Protection, the national MPs withdrew 441 of their proposals. So that's what's left for consideration on the 363 proposal committee. The Supreme Council has accepted. [[B in m in s a l in]] Listen, and then stand up and scream in turn. The Supreme Council made a political decision to cut the bill by half, although part of the second article 116 of the Rules allows for such a reduction only in the number of articles or items under 100. But we made a political decision with you. But the deadline for making proposals is not the time frame for preparing the bill for the second reading. The comparative table of the Public Prosecutor’s Bill is neither prepared nor made available to the National Deputies. Part 5 of article 118 provides for a first reading draft of the bill, without a comparative table, only in the absence of proposals by national deputies. That is, according to the Constitution of Ukraine, article 89 and the Rules, we cannot consider this bill without a table. So I would like to give the floor to the head of the working group approved by the committee and to the committee manager in two minutes to inform the members of the Supreme Council. Please, two minutes -- Oilman and two minutes -- head of the committee. Please.
ParlaMint-UA_2013-11-21-m0.u70	Dear Volodymyr Vasilovich, dear colleagues! Following the Supreme Council’s decision on a reduced procedure, we received the latest amendments last Friday at 5 p.m. The working group could only start work on Tuesday. Why? Because, technically, it was only Monday at 6:00 that a table was compiled, technically. The first meeting was held in this room at 12 o’clock on Tuesday. We've worked out an algorithm to deal with these amendments. On Wednesday at the committee meeting, we received statements from the deputies of Petrenko, from the deputies of Agaphon, Chumak, Palamarczuk, Karpunts that they were withdrawing their amendments. This is the right of deputies. On the other hand, we decided to approve the table not in the number of amendments 804, but in view of the fact that at the time of the meeting the committee was called off by these deputies, we approved the table in 620 amendments. And they decided to assign the committee members to work individually with this table to speed up the consideration of these amendments and to make their proposals where the amendment is supported, and where they refuse to do so, so that the secretariat can generalize these observations as soon as possible, and where our thoughts coincide, we do not discuss them; where there is a difference, we hold meetings of the working group and the committee and have a professional discussion. We are definitely against this approach when hundreds of amendments are made. Then answer: Is this not a procedure for breaking the bill itself? And if these are essentially important legal amendments, they probably need to be considered, because they can improve the bill. So far, the working group has not received from any of the deputies and, in particular, from the opposition its proposals.
ParlaMint-UA_2013-11-21-m0.u71	Finish up.
ParlaMint-UA_2013-11-21-m0.u72	I think it's necessary literally in the near future, and I urge the MPs to give us these comments immediately to the amendments that have come to take place in order to hold the first meeting of both the working group and the committee. Thank you for your attention.
ParlaMint-UA_2013-11-21-m0.u73	Please, the chairman of the committee, Andrew Cosemiakin. Two minutes.
ParlaMint-UA_2013-11-21-m0.u74	Dear colleagues! I want to remind you again of the situation. There are three bills that need to be voted in order for Ukraine to be able to sign the agreement. Today we voted one. The second one was hit by a party of regions. And the third one prepared by the President himself, the honorary head of the Party of Regions, the one who introduced the bill, passed the bill, received a positive conclusion from the Venice Commission. He's almost flawless, as the president's advisor has told us. We have even refused, opposition deputies, amendments that apply to requirements that support the requirements of the Venice Commission. We called off all 459. 441 amendment. All deputies, all of them, here's the statement. This bill is not irreprehensible, but we closed our eyes, we voted in the first reading. We are prepared, Your Honor Vladimir Vasilovich, to vote in favour of this bill, which was passed by the President of Ukraine (with 400 amendments submitted by his own party and its own faction, which does not respect it), to vote in the first reading and in general. Article 118 of the Rules gives us such greed. So I'm going to ask this question right now. And put a dot in front of the representatives of the European Union. Thank you.
ParlaMint-UA_2013-11-21-m0.u75	Thank you. I'll be with you in a minute. A minute from the factions to make their proposals. Please, who? Please, Arseny Yatzenuk. One minute from all the fractions of the supply.
ParlaMint-UA_2013-11-21-m0.u76	The fact that the Party of Regions does not support Viktor Yanukovic is a positive signal. This means that the 2015 election is still losing. Mr. Golovo, I have a copy of the document signed by President Viktor Yanukovic of Ukraine, who passed the Prosecutor's Office Act to Parliament. As the Ukrainian opposition, despite the disadvantage of this bill, we are prepared to vote in favour of it in an editorial paper submitted by your party leader, your leader, and so far the current President, Viktor Janukovic. We demand that the law be put to the vote and that the bill be adopted. Mr. Head, we ask you to give a clear answer as to whether there will be a bill now being voted on by Viktor Fedorovich Yanukovic and for the Party of Regions to support its President.
ParlaMint-UA_2013-11-21-m0.u77	Who's with the Faction Strike? Please, Vitaly Kowalczuk, one minute, please.
ParlaMint-UA_2013-11-21-m0.u78	Respectable citizens of Ukraine, respected colleagues! I want to turn from the strike faction to the People's Deputies of the Party of the Regions. I think you realize that you have a position in your hands right now on whether or not a door will open for Ukraine to Europe. I'd like to announce the position of the strike faction. We certainly demand that a bill on the prosecutor's office be put to the vote by the President. And we're going to think that if the Party of Regions doesn't support this bill, it will thus demonstrate its real attitude towards the President, who is the honorable head of their political power. Thank you.
ParlaMint-UA_2013-11-21-m0.u79	Freedom Faction, Andrew Mishchenko, please turn on the microphone.
ParlaMint-UA_2013-11-21-m0.u80	Andrew Mishchenko, All-Ukrainian Freedom Union. We understand the responsibility that lies before the Ukrainian nation before the signing of the Treaty of the Vilnius Summit. The All-Ukrainian Union of Freedom understands the risks of adopting this bill because it does not actually reform the sector, but leads, cements the Soviet type of prosecutor in Ukrainian society. But instead, we understand when we put on the scales or be in Europe or be in the Customs Union, we choose for ourselves, we make the decision to be in Europe and be further away from Moscow. So, society, we, the All-Ukrainian Freedom Union, will vote in favour of this bill. What's more, we've taken steps to get him approved faster in this session room. 22 the corrections I have called and 33 were rejected by the Deleter. So the way is open to voting for this bill. Glory to Ukraine!
ParlaMint-UA_2013-11-21-m0.u81	Thank you. I'm asking for the faction of the Party of Regions, National Deputy Zharavsky, you have a minute.
ParlaMint-UA_2013-11-21-m0.u82	Dear colleagues, yesterday the Committee on Law Enforcement finished work at 7:30 p.m. We have today, at least until this morning, before the meeting, a plenary meeting of the Supreme Council of 620 amendments from different deputies and from non-fractional ones as well. Sadly, then, today’s national electorate does not have a table. And I call for opposition to co-operation with the committee, every amendment needs to be considered, it's over 100 articles. We need to adopt a serious Public Prosecutor's Act that meets European standards here, not in haste. I urge the opposition to work on the committee. Thank you.
ParlaMint-UA_2013-11-21-m0.u83	I beg you, the faction of the Ukraine Company for a minute. Adam Ivanovich Martinyuk.
ParlaMint-UA_2013-11-21-m0.u84	Dear colleagues, honourable voters, we should probably be pleased to see that the representatives of Europe, worthy representatives, see how we are trying to push ourselves back into Europe. We are going to a deliberate violation of our laws. There is no such thing in Europe. You have been reminded by the Head of the Supreme Council that you, the majority of those present in the room, have violated the rules of the Rules by political means, article 109, that bills, where more than 100 articles in the bill, do not have the right to vote in favour of short-term preparation. You ignored it. You continue to ignore Ukraine’s legislation by reaching out for European legislation. That's not how they live. Let's live in Europe.
ParlaMint-UA_2013-11-21-m0.u85	Please, a minute from the non-faction. Peter Porcelain.
ParlaMint-UA_2013-11-21-m0.u86	Thank you very much, Mr. Head. Dear colleagues, of course, the Procurator's Act is extremely important. It forms an investment climate, it protects human rights, not the mythical rights of the state, it deprives the general public of the fact that only a court establishes guilt, not a prosecutor who is granted absolutely incredible rights, and that's not European. But are we talking about the D.A. right now? Why is it not responsible for a mythical working group that was unable to draft a bill within a week, and 45 million Ukrainian citizens become victims of the inaction of several national MPs? Because that's not what this is about. It's not about that, my dears, it's about being a personification of responsibility today. The opposition has made a decision and this is a decision to support the bill submitted by the President. Our move to Europe depends on it. The other part of the hall decided to block our move to Europe. But it's not.
ParlaMint-UA_2013-11-21-m0.u87	Finish up.
ParlaMint-UA_2013-11-21-m0.u88	This is the responsibility that lies with the President of Ukraine. Because only the representatives of the European Union, the 28 countries, and the President of Ukraine today can either open a step to Europe or close it for the Ukrainians forever. Remember this responsibility and vote on the Prosecutor’s Law. Thank you!
ParlaMint-UA_2013-11-21-m0.u89	Respectable national MPs, different opinions, different proposals. So I'm going to announce a 30-minute break to reconcile positions. We'll resume our work in 30 minutes. Faction leaders, please come in, I'll go to the committee manager, please come to the task force manager. In 30 minutes, at 12 o'clock, we'll continue our work.
ParlaMint-UA_2013-11-21-m0.u90	Dear National Deputies! We're continuing our work. The faction leaders, we agreed that in a minute all the faction leaders would come forward. So I think, I think, which of the factions is starting to come out? I'm talking to the leaders of the opposition factions. You're coming? Please. Please invite the deputies to the hall. Ladies and gentlemen, I don't see any speakers, so we're going to work day by day. Ratification is under consideration. Please, there is a desire to speak out from the faction leaders. Peter Mikolaiovich Simonenko. Please.
ParlaMint-UA_2013-11-21-m0.u91	Simonenko, the faction of the Company. Ladies and gentlemen of Ukraine, I would like to inform you that negotiations have now taken place, which once again in the presence of the representatives of the European Union have shown that the faction of the Company in its demands and in the creation of the issue of the protection of national interests has been completely, by all 200 percent, a right. What is happening now in Ukraine is a betrayal of national interests. I will also inform you that, at the request of the Cabinet of Ministers, the decision to suspend the work on the future agreement on the Association Agreement of Ukraine-EU and the formulation is currently under review because it threatens Ukraine's national security. I do hope, however, that the government will make a courageous decision and will eventually protect the people of Ukraine, not make demands, those that Europe today imposes on the people of Ukraine.
ParlaMint-UA_2013-11-21-m0.u92	Thank you. Faction Strike, who's speaking? Please turn on Vitaly Click's microphone. Please.
ParlaMint-UA_2013-11-21-m0.u93	Dear colleagues, honourable representatives of the media, we are about to conclude a meeting in the Head of the Supreme Council to discuss issues related to Euro-Integration Laws. The situation is that the majority of the Party of Regions are on the Committees today. Today, there is also a majority in the Supreme Council Hall. And unfortunately, there are no votes to support European laws. Everything is done in order not to adopt the Law on Treatment abroad, not to adopt the Law on Public Prosecutions. Today all responsibility lies in the hands of the Party of Regions that blocks work, and we hope that in the near future, as agreed, the speaker will say that tomorrow morning the laws will be passed and passed. If these laws and working groups do not work, as most of the working groups are on the committees and most of them are in the hall today, the responsibility lies with the Party of Regions and personally with President Janukovic. Thank you.
ParlaMint-UA_2013-11-21-m0.u94	Thank you. The Freedom Union. Who's speaking? Please, the leader of the Oleg Tuggnibok faction.
ParlaMint-UA_2013-11-21-m0.u95	Honorable Society, Honorable Colleagues, Honorable Ukrainians! Now the situation is this: to make a positive decision in Vilnius, we need two more positive votes in this room: solving the issue of Timoshenko and approving the Procurator's Office Act. It's about the Procurator's Law. At present, there are no obstacles to putting him in the room and voting, except that this law under President Yanukovic's authority is to be passed to the committee of profile, and the committee was to consider the rights of this bill exclusively to MPs from the Party of the Regions. All opposition deputies, as well as nonfractional (most) officials, have revoked their amendments. So today it's all in the hands of the Party of Regions, formally, informally, but they, by their political will, in the case of a positive vote and an amendment, we can legislate and vote and settle the issue here. If that's not the case, it's all the fault of the party.
ParlaMint-UA_2013-11-21-m0.u96	Please, Arsenius Yatzenuk is the leader of the faction of unification.
ParlaMint-UA_2013-11-21-m0.u97	Dear people of Ukraine, all masks are torn. President Janukovic and the Party of the Regions are not going to sign any treaty with the European Union. On the other hand, they demonstrated that, first, the fear of Julia Timoshenko had darkened anything. And secondly, for the laws passed by President Viktor Yanukovic, he's not even ready to vote on his party that made him president. We officially state that on Friday, Parliament, in the words of the Head of Parliament, should start working with the Procurator's Act and the law on the possibility of giving Yulia Timoshenko medical care. It's the last day of the plenary. By Friday, the Ukrainian opposition will not vote in favour of any bill that is now in the order of the day. We demand a vote on the laws that make Ukraine a European state.
ParlaMint-UA_2013-11-21-m0.u98	The faction of the Party of the Regions. Please, Deputy Oliynik.
ParlaMint-UA_2013-11-21-m0.u99	Dear Head, dear colleagues, in the Head of the Supreme Council, we have found a good decision on the board. The first decision is to continue the work of the working group on a coordinated project on treatment for persons convicted abroad. I'll tell you, this is good news. Maybe she'll disappoint some of the opposition leaders because we don't put a dot, we keep working. And, of course, we'll think about how to get out of this situation, because I say twice again, the European Court of Justice has denied Julia Timoshenko treatment in Germany. The second news is the news that we will also continue to seek compromise on the issue of the prosecutor's office. But I urge you, fellow workers, do not provoke or offend others in the hall, for if you insult and ask for support, believe me, there will be no support. Because that's the form that doesn't make the basis for compromise. Do not be offended. Find European methods of communication. Thank you.
ParlaMint-UA_2013-11-21-m0.u100	Did everyone say that? So let's move on to the day-to-day issues. The issue of ratification. The draft Law is being considered (No. 0050) on the ratification of the Memorandum of Understanding between Ukraine as Borrower and the European Union as Creditor and Credit Agreement between Ukraine as Borrower, the National Bank of Ukraine as Borrower Agent and the European Union as Creditor for providing Ukraine with macro-financial assistance to the European Union of up to 610 million euros. Report to Finance Minister Yuri Volodymyrovich Kolobov. Please. You have up to 10 minutes.
ParlaMint-UA_2013-11-21-m0.u101	Dear Vladimir Vasilovich, distinguished national deputies and present! Your opinion is proposed for a bill to ratify the Memorandum of Understanding between Ukraine as Borrower and the European Union as Creditor and Credit Agreement between Ukraine as Borrower, the National Bank of Ukraine as Borrower Agent and the European Union as Creditor for providing Ukraine with macro-financial assistance to the European Union in the amount of up to 610 million euros submitted for consideration by the Supreme Council by the President of Ukraine. The main task of the bill is to become effective for Ukraine in accordance with the provisions of the Law on International Contracts of Ukraine, the Memorandum of Understanding and the Credit Agreement on the granting of credit to Ukraine of up to 610 million euros. Under the provisions of the said treaties, they will not take effect from the date of receipt by the European Union of official written reports from Ukraine on the implementation of the internal procedures provided for in Ukrainian legislation. The Memorandum of Understanding sets out the preconditions for the allocation of funds, such as the general conditions for the successful implementation of future agreements reached between Ukraine and the IMF, as well as the positive results of the EU's assessment of the success of structural reforms. A credit agreement will determine the technical features of lending. These contracts provide that the macro-financial assistance can be provided to Ukraine with four tranches: 100, 10, 250 and 250 million euros respectively. The period between the first, second, third and fourth tranches is at least three months. The maturity of the loan shall be no more than 15 years. The exact interest rate on borrowing will be known at the time of the exit of the European Commission, which has the highest Triple A credit rating on the external borrowing market, to receive the funds that will be counted to Ukraine at the same rate of credit. Detailed funding conditions that best meet Ukraine’s needs? determine jointly between the Ukrainian and European parties on the basis of the results of the consultations. After such consultations, will the Ukrainian party send a request for a tranche? defining the basic conditions you want. In view of the fact that the European Commission's lending to the external market over the period of 15 years was at a rate of 2.5 to 2.9 percent over the period 2012-2013? It is expected that the lending rate for the macro-financial assistance to Ukraine will be no more than 3 percent. The first tranche of aid will be awarded after the ratification of the Memorandum of Understanding and the Credit Agreement of the Supreme Council of Ukraine, provided that Ukraine receives payments under arrangements to be reached with the International Monetary Fund. The following tranches will be awarded by the Government of Ukraine, as defined in the Memorandum of Understanding, in areas such as government finance, trade, third energy, and implementation, fourth tax policy and fifth, financial sector policies. Since the negotiating process on the harmonization of the conditions for granting EU macro-financial assistance to Ukraine has been going on for a long time, some of the measures that need to be implemented by this memorandum are already at an active stage. The involvement of the EU’s macro-financial assistance is a matter of priority given the acceptable interest rate on borrowing credit. In addition, the European Commission's receipt of credit resources in addition to the future agreement with the International Monetary Fund should be an indicator of the stability of Ukraine's financial and budgetary system and a signal to potential investors. An important aspect of receiving this assistance is also the deepening of financial cooperation between Ukraine and the European Union in the context of the necessary reforms in Ukraine. The main result of the adoption of the bill will be the validity of the agreements with the EU for Ukraine and the further receipt by Ukraine of credit resources of 610 million euros. Thank you for your attention. Please be supportive.
ParlaMint-UA_2013-11-21-m0.u102	Thank you. Is there a question for the minister? I'm asking you to sign in, three minutes to answer the question. Now, let me ask you a question. Please, Vladimir Bondarenko, Fatherland faction.
ParlaMint-UA_2013-11-21-m0.u103	Just after the failed vote on Euro-Integration Laws, it is strange to consider the Law on Loaning to a Bank for European Money for Ukraine. If you'll excuse me, let's take a one-way look. If we're friends with Europe, if we want to be in Europe, and they say they're willing to give us money, including loans that are very convenient, let's go this way, but complex. Not just take the money, steal it, or flush it down the sewer, and that'll be the end of it. So I think that the position that opposition factions have taken -- not supporting any bill -- is called primarily by the absolute ignorance of the Party of Regions and the Communists of the possibility of joining the European community by signing an association. So I don't think the voices on this side, the opposition to this bill, will. Although he is certainly needed, Ukraine obviously needs him. But you have to be oriented in the same direction. Okay.
ParlaMint-UA_2013-11-21-m0.u104	The questions, the comments were. Please, faction of the Party of the Regions, National MP Smithyuch.
ParlaMint-UA_2013-11-21-m0.u105	Thank you. Dear Yuri Volodymyrovich, there is no doubt that the Party of Regions will support this bill. Because this bill aims to make Ukraine's financial situation improve and the economy develops. But at the same time, I want to ask you. Please tell me how the Ministry of Finance is planning to do further work in commercial banks today, because if we're planning to join the European Association, you know that the banking system is funding the real sector within 3-4-5 percent. And we have more than 20 percent. Do you plan to take action with the National Bank, including a bill to the Supreme Council to limit commercial banks to high lending rates in Ukraine's economy? Please.
ParlaMint-UA_2013-11-21-m0.u106	Thank you for asking. This is a very important question for our nation. But I would like us all to understand that the interest rate is the price of the risk. And if we don't work at a decent level to protect creditors' rights, there will be. So we have a working group of national deputies, with the National Bank, and we're working on this very important issue, and we're working on it all the time. And I think in the near future we're going to propose a series of drafts for consideration by the Supreme Council. Thank you.
ParlaMint-UA_2013-11-21-m0.u107	Have a seat. He is invited to report to the Committee on European Integration on the subject of Grigory Mikhailovich Nemiru. Please, Gregory Mikhailovich.
ParlaMint-UA_2013-11-21-m0.u108	Dear Vladimir Vasilovich, distinguished colleagues! We are considering a number of related problems. This is a problem of restoring Ukraine's cooperation with the International Monetary Fund, which is the problem of Ukraine's relationship with the European Union. And the third problem is Ukraine's compliance with not only macroeconomic indicators, and accordingly with questions of monitoring the performance or failure of structural indicators. It's also about meeting the right standards in terms of democracy and human rights. I would like to remind you that this potential macro-financial assistance is based on two decisions: a decision adopted in 2002 by the European Parliament and a decision adopted in 2010 by the European Parliament and the European Council, 110 plus 500 million euros. The provision of funds is not guaranteed, but depends on a few of the conditions that I'm going to talk about here. First. The premeditated allocation of funds in the first tranche, the 100 million euro issue, is the satisfactory implementation of arrangements that can be reached between Ukraine and the International Monetary Fund. Which means without restoring the International Monetary Fund, even the first grant. The first tranche cannot be granted. I would also like to say that the following tranches in the event of the resumption of such cooperation can only be given as a result of a positive assessment by the European Commission acting on behalf of the European Union on the progress achieved in economic stability and structural reforms. I would like to draw attention to the following, I think, an unprecedented point that was first included in a memorandum of this kind, a memorandum of understanding. This is paragraph 9, I want all of my respectable colleagues to listen to this point. This aid is being implemented with an understanding and depending on the Ukrainian authorities' respect for the rule of law, democracy and human rights. It's what's called a democratic condition, and I'd like to be heard. Because the issues we discussed this morning and were not successful in considering them have a direct bearing on macrofinancial assistance. In particular, I would like to point out that in view of the problems associated with the high level of corruption in Ukraine, the relevant paragraph of the memorandum and the credit agreement, which form part of the package proposed for ratification, states that the European Commission, including the European Anti-Fraud Service, has the right to exercise control. Including on-the-spot checks and the European Court of Auditors, the Court of Auditors shall have the right to conduct audit checks, if appropriate, also directly in the premises. The repayment period should not exceed 15 years. I also want to say that in the event of a dispute, any such dispute should be dealt with in the exclusive jurisdiction of the Court of Justice of the European Union under article 272 of the Agreement on the Activities of the European Union. And the decisions of the Court of Justice of the European Union must be fully binding. To conclude, the Committee on European Integration has been considering ratification. A decision was made to offer her support. Thank you for your attention.
ParlaMint-UA_2013-11-21-m0.u109	Thank you. Is there a question in the National Deputies? Please sign up. Please, the faction of the Ukrainian Company, the national deputy of Dzardanov.
ParlaMint-UA_2013-11-21-m0.u110	Grigory Mikhailovich, good afternoon! I don't understand where the money is going to be spent. I didn't hear that on the committee.
ParlaMint-UA_2013-11-21-m0.u111	When we considered this question, my colleague, the Zardanovs, held back, so I take it, in the vote. The goal of this loan is structural stability, macro-financial indicators. And according to the text of the loan agreement of the Memorandum of Understanding, it's about a monitoring system. That is, it refers to government non-budgetary funds, it pays particular attention to the situation with NAC Naftogaz Ukraine, Ukravutodora, the State Mortgage Institute, and it's about over-serious monitoring of VAT compensation in the formation of money, not money bills. I would also like to say that a separate area of monitoring according to the Appendices is the number and total cost of public procurement procedures with the corresponding value.
ParlaMint-UA_2013-11-21-m0.u112	Vitalia Klicka faction, Vanzuriak People's Deputy.
ParlaMint-UA_2013-11-21-m0.u113	Pass it to Rosenka, please.
ParlaMint-UA_2013-11-21-m0.u114	Please, Paul Rosenko.
ParlaMint-UA_2013-11-21-m0.u115	Paul Rosenco, Vitaly Caller's Faction. Dear Gregory Mikhailovich, I would like us to repeat for our colleagues, first of all, from the Party of the Regions, the message you mentioned. Because it looks very strange to us. When there's a rhetoric that people want to get help from the European Union, they want to integrate into the words of the European Union. But when it comes to democratic choice, the democratization of the public prosecutor's offices, the democratization of electoral legislation, the cessation of selective justice, these people don't want to vote. And so I am asking you, perhaps again, to repeat this thesis that these questions are essential. If we're talking about European choice, we have to confirm it by concrete actions, by specific bills.
ParlaMint-UA_2013-11-21-m0.u116	I thank you for asking because it is perfectly right and has a bearing. By the way, when we confirm that our legislation has a clear orientation for future membership in the European Union, and when four out of five factions represented in the Ukrainian Parliament say that they share this goal, obviously the conditions that are clearly defined in the memorandum, I will repeat them again. The premeditated allocation of aid funds is: restoring cooperation with the International Monetary Fund once. These are satisfactory reports on the evaluation by the European Commission of compliance with the required indicators -- two. And the third. I read that this aid is being implemented with the understanding that the Ukrainian authorities will respect the rule of law, democracy and human rights. These three conditions are interlinked. If they are not maintained, no macrofinancial assistance will come.
ParlaMint-UA_2013-11-21-m0.u117	Have a seat. Thank you. I'm asking you to sign up for the factions, the national deputies, to discuss the matter. The Fatherland faction, Turkish national deputy. Please.
ParlaMint-UA_2013-11-21-m0.u118	I want to turn to the Ukrainian citizens, first of all, our voters. Notice, dear friends, the cynicism of the Party of Regions. Today, when it came to voting, questions related to the democratization of the country, issues related to the cessation of political repression, the democratization of law enforcement agencies, the Party of the Regions gave no voice. What is more, these laws came out of President Yanukov's personal obligations and Prime Minister Azarov's orders to the government. No voice. So there's no democratic change. No wish has been shown to make any difference in Ukraine’s positive approach to European standards and to ensure the guaranteed signing of the agreement in Vilnius. But now he's voting for a loan from the European Union. And you'll see, a hundred percent of the Party of Regions will pay for this law to get money from the European Union. No commitments are made; they want money. Dear friends, there is a very dangerous situation in Ukraine. In fact, the whole country's economy is transformed into a huge pyramid. Ukraine’s economy is being destroyed daily. The government only exists because of the involvement of all additional and additional loans. In banks, all liquidity is based on internal loan bonds. Instead of a VAT bill, it's a promissory note. Instead of the utility bills, the bills are now being relaunched. The whole economy is credited. The debt is enormous, and now again, by cynically failing previous laws, they want to vote, give them money, money, money. Whoever gives them more money, that's where they're gonna go. There is no worldwide position regarding European choice in the Party of Regions and Janukovich. The opposition will not vote in favour of this law until the Supreme Council has voted in favour of legislative acts that should demonstrate Ukraine's desire to change the situation for the better. Until a decision is taken on the release of the leader of the opposition, Yulia Timoshenko, until the reform of the law enforcement system and the cessation of political repression begins. We were given a chance to return to those questions by tomorrow morning. Until these issues are resolved, no vote will be cast for any law. Thank you.
ParlaMint-UA_2013-11-21-m0.u119	Thank you. The faction of the Ukrainian Company, the national deputy of Dzardanov.
ParlaMint-UA_2013-11-21-m0.u120	The faction of the Communist Party of Ukraine will not vote in favour of the bill under the following circumstances. First of all, there is another financial affair under the terms of so-called financial stabilization. Credits will still have to be repaid, which means interest on loans. Ukraine's external debt is already more than $30 billion. Only this year and the next will have to pay back more than $10 billion. [[B in m in s a l in]] The so-called “financial pyramids” will continue to function fully. Having not yet signed the Association Agreement, the European Union will already monitor the financial structures of the economy, energy, trade in Ukraine. The trade with Russia is already falling. All countries that have taken credit have become “drug addicts” of the International Monetary Fund. Ireland, South Korea, Hungary, only needs $60 billion over the past year. 4 per cent of the population of Ukraine want to live as in the West, teach their children as in the West, relax and enjoy themselves in the West. And for the President, this is the elevator to the future presidential election. In Nikolayev region, all agriculture will be destroyed. Already the construction is worth more than 25,000 people in the Nikolaev region will be out of work. At the meeting of the Committee on European Integration, I did not hear where funds would be spent. We don't know where the money went after the sale. The EU's 610 million takeover could destroy economic ties with Russia and, as a result, we can lose more than 10 billion a year. So the people of Ukraine, 3.5 million, favoured the Customs Union. Our party will insist on this course. Given the extent of corruption in our country, we believe that this money will also be stolen. That's why the Communists are against it. Thank you.
ParlaMint-UA_2013-11-21-m0.u121	Faction of Freedom, National Deputy of Cherniaków.
ParlaMint-UA_2013-11-21-m0.u122	Please pass the word to Alexander Shevchenk.
ParlaMint-UA_2013-11-21-m0.u123	Please give it to Alexander Chevchenk. Please, come in.
ParlaMint-UA_2013-11-21-m0.u124	Alexander Shevchenko, the All-Ukrainian Freedom Union. I should point out that the aim of this assistance is to reduce, first of all, external financial pressure on Ukraine, improve its balance of payments and provide budgetary needs, and increase its position on foreign exchange reserves. Help is provided to ensure that the authorities of Ukraine respect what has already been stated here, the rule of law, democracy, human rights. Although I have to say that the ratification of the agreement will increase the financial burden on Ukraine's state budget. According to the National Bank of Ukraine, by the end of the first half of 2013, Ukraine’s gross external debt was $134.4 billion and decreased by $0.7 billion compared to the beginning of this year. But taking these loans raises Ukraine’s debt again to the state in which it existed at the beginning of the year. So, in general, it makes it easier, to some extent, the burden of Ukraine's budget, but, I would say, it doesn't completely eliminate the crises in the economy and in Ukraine's finances that are being seen. Credit is granted for 15 years under 2 percent of the year, which is quite low and convenient for Ukraine. And I like what's in the contract. In the agreement, the European Union as a whole will control the cost of this loan, in particular as stated in Article 9(d): The creditor may declare the principal amount of the loan repaid in a manner that is subject to immediate payment, together with interest accrued, if it is established that, in connection with this loan, the Borrower or the Borrower's Agent were involved in any fraud or corruption or any other illegal act. At the same time, the Borrower undertakes to conduct use audits. However, Ukraine has not yet established an anticorruption committee to fight, and the Court of Auditors has not been given an audit on the arrival of credits. So there are certain doubts and, of course, Freedom will support the granting of such a loan to Ukraine and welcomes cooperation with the European Union in this area. Thank you for your attention.
ParlaMint-UA_2013-11-21-m0.u125	Thank you. The faction of the Party of the Regions, National Deputy Kolezničenko.
ParlaMint-UA_2013-11-21-m0.u126	Dear Vladimir Vasilevich! Dear colleagues! [[B in m in s a l in]] The proposed draft agreement is certainly very important, so if we are to discuss what credit policy is, we must understand that no country in the world is without credit. Another matter is how effective and literate these loans are used. In doing so, I would like to recall, especially those who, apart from the Ukrainian language, do not know and seek Europe, that the problems in Ukraine's budget have arisen precisely because of the “orange power”. And thanks to this shelter where Mrs. Timoshenko is located, we have received a hole in the budget of over $12 billion. That's what this is about. Who should I let go of? And if it weren't for the enormous costs that we bear and still bear, of course, our State's budget would be much healthier. And today, by making these commitments, we realize that we are responsible for the debts that Timoshenko has owed us. But only smart people understand that, and those who don't understand it can knock their heads off the tables in our building. However, I would like to point out that the International Monetary Fund is now ready to issue a $12 billion loan on one condition so that we can raise the price of gas for the population. However, the position of the Party of the Regions, the position of the President, the Prime Minister, is firm – we do not go to these conditions because we understand that they are unacceptable to us and we cannot meet them. And this is the agreement that we're offered under 2 per cent for 15 years is a super-beneficial loan. At the same time, it is under strict and unambiguous control. And we can rest assured that this money will be spent properly and will improve our balance of payments and, above all, ensure our development without any political demands on our State. What is particularly important when we are discussing today the possibility of our State's development, and we are getting political, sometimes simply unfounded, demands that in fact violate our sovereignty to compensate for the losses we have. We can't see or hear anything. Therefore, naturally, we must support such a super-beneficial loan that has been able to obtain our power. This is thanks to the work of both the Ministry of Finance and the Ministry of Economy and the Cabinet of Ministers and the concerted work of our Parliament and the faction of the Party of the Regions. Because we have demonstrated that we are the right party to negotiate and that we are using the money of this super-beneficial loan properly. Thank you for your attention.
ParlaMint-UA_2013-11-21-m0.u127	The Vitalia Klitschka faction, the people's deputy, Rosenko.
ParlaMint-UA_2013-11-21-m0.u128	Please pass the word to Valentina Nastavajchenko.
ParlaMint-UA_2013-11-21-m0.u129	Please Valentin Nastavichenko.
ParlaMint-UA_2013-11-21-m0.u130	Valentin Nastawichenko, Vitalia Klitka faction. Dear voters! Dear colleagues! We would like to pay attention to what is happening in Parliament today. The Association and Free Trade Agreement with the European Union means, as Vitaly Klitschko said at the beginning of this meeting, the flow of investment, the ability to trade freely and travel freely with the 28th countries of the world. This also means that the luxurious life of power and of all promoters should be stopped, which means a substantial budget cut and no additional credits and debt obligations, which are an illusion for the people, for our citizens, and it is possible to continue to chew on those who are bureaucrats and officials. And then we have an official request from all of Vitalia Klitka's hits and to all of the law enforcement agencies: 57 billion dollars a year stolen from Ukraine and moved abroad. If it's not a loan, put that money back in the budget. If you don't know how to do this, we're talking to you right now, and I think the experts are not only in our faction, who know how to do this: government financial monitoring -- once, National Bank of Ukraine -- two, law enforcement and criminal conduct on those financial Ukrainian speculators who have been extorting or stealing money. So start with: Return the money and return it to the Ukraine budget. Our second requirement and direct appeal to the government. It is known worldwide that Ukraine's government debt currently amounts to 552 billion dollars, of which 200 billion is the government's debt to the government of Azarov. Question: "How's this debt going to work, and who's going to pay it back?" Question number three, to which we also ask the answer: how do, dear friends, about international financial speculators who are already in California, are such states in the United States, with the help of this government, have $5 billion of sovereign sovereign government debt obligations in one hand from the U.S. government? What kind of loans can you talk about if you don't get three key answers? Then, our initiative: here are the corrupters and those who steal money; the savings and severe budget cuts, first of all, at the authorities and thirdly, to stop all processes related to European integration. Restoring open work, adopting euro-laws, and then creditors will trust, and we will understand that loans are being spent not on power, but on the real needs of Ukrainians, producers and our national economy. Thank you for your attention.
ParlaMint-UA_2013-11-21-m0.u131	Welcome to Peter Prashenko's word, non-fractional. Please.
ParlaMint-UA_2013-11-21-m0.u132	Your Honour, Mr. Head, my fellow officers! I ask you to pay attention to the placement of these laws in our daily order. It was not uncommon for laws to allow Ukraine to sign the Association Agreement and then for the ratification of the Memorandum on macro-financial assistance between Ukraine and the European Union. Because the purpose of developing this macro-financial assistance concept, and I am proud to have participated back in 2009, when the basic position of this concept was identified, was to compensate for the possible loss of Ukraine after the signing of the Association Agreement and the temporary application of a deeper and inclusive free trade zone. All the risks that are now felt by Ukraine's economy today were anticipated back in 2009. And 610 million euros for a very long time at a very low rate, the European Union is providing macro-financial assistance to compensate for possible losses. Second position. The European Union is not limited to only 610 million euros, because the European Union has now proposed negotiations on macro-financial assistance "plus", which will cover Ukraine's risks, including a deficit in the balance of payments, ensuring the stability of the national monetary unit and ensuring the viability of the national economy. The third position, which is extremely important: the condition for these funds is the full restoration of cooperation with the International Monetary Fund. And that means that it's going to be helping at a lower rate for a longer period than what's supposed to be the cheapest resources in the world -- the resources of the International Monetary Fund. Thus, the ratification of this agreement will allow the International Monetary Fund to receive almost a billion dollars at the same time and to continue negotiations on the arrival of macrofinancial assistance-2, which reduces a large proportion of the risks associated with a deeper and inclusive free trade zone. So by dividing logic, I'd like to go back to being responsible. The failure to sign the Association Agreement, the blocking of Euro-Integration Laws will deprive Ukraine of nearly a billion dollars of macro-financial assistance from the European Union. Let's both address macro-financial assistance today, and vote on laws: the prosecution and who will allow Timoshenko to be treated abroad -- to unlock the Association Agreement. Thank you for your attention.
ParlaMint-UA_2013-11-21-m0.u133	Thank you. I'm asking the National MPs to sign up for the speech. I beg you, Freedom faction, National Deputy Igor Miroshnichenko.
ParlaMint-UA_2013-11-21-m0.u134	Please hand over Alexander Oxynthyovich Shevchenk.
ParlaMint-UA_2013-11-21-m0.u135	Please pass the speech to Shevchenka.
ParlaMint-UA_2013-11-21-m0.u136	Alexander Shevchenko, faction of the All-Ukrainian Freedom Union. As I said before, we are ready to welcome the ratification of such an agreement, but, at the same time, we have some warnings, as I have already pointed out. In particular, the borrower is not prepared to fight fraud or so - called frauds that exist in Ukraine. It's a huge amount of money, essentially winding things up. So I would like to draw your attention to the fact that if this law, this law, is ratified, Ukraine, a more faithful treaty, the government of the National Alternative to the All-Ukrainian Freedom Union will follow it quite carefully. Expenses where these finances will go. At the same time, in view of the failure today to enact basic laws aimed at integrating Ukraine into the European community, in particular, we have in mind some of the bills we cannot vote on, the All-Ukrainian Union of Freedom adheres to the position of the entire opposition. Although I think this is actually going to hurt Ukraine as a whole. And it won't give her authority in the eyes of the world community. I would like to say that not signing the Association Agreement will reject Ukraine many years ago. In fact, it will turn its development in a different direction from that of the European community. Which would cause irreparable damage to its international image, its position as a subject of international relations, and the damage to the population waiting for both free movement and the labour force, and, in fact, the goods between Ukraine and the European Union. But a 180-degree twist, I'd say, essentially, is halting Ukraine's further development, its progress. And the animals of the people that were before that will be firmly established. Thank you for your attention.
ParlaMint-UA_2013-11-21-m0.u137	Thank you. The faction of the Party of the Regions, National Deputy Guzenko.
ParlaMint-UA_2013-11-21-m0.u138	Dear Vladimir Vasilovich! May I have the floor to the people's deputies, Geidosh?
ParlaMint-UA_2013-11-21-m0.u139	Pass it on, please.
ParlaMint-UA_2013-11-21-m0.u140	Istvan Haydos, faction of the Party of the Regions. Dear Volodymyr Vasilovich, dear colleagues! Maintaining the stability of the financial and economic system is important, from the point of view of any economy. And positively, the Cabinet of Ministers of Ukraine, together with the National Bank, are taking steps that strengthen the domestic economy. The involvement of macro-financial assistance from the EU will enable the development of areas such as trade, energy, tax policy, policies in the financial sector and so on. But the main result of the adoption of Ukraine's draft law will be the acquisition of Ukraine's important agreements with the European Union and the further acquisition of Ukraine's additional credit resources to maintain the stability of its financial and economic system. The failure to ratify this memorandum will not contribute to Ukraine's Euro-Integration Process. I therefore propose to support this bill. The faction of the Party of the Regions will vote in favour. Thank you.
ParlaMint-UA_2013-11-21-m0.u141	The Vitalia Klitschka faction, National MP Paul Rosenko. Please.
ParlaMint-UA_2013-11-21-m0.u142	Paul Rosenco, Vitaly Caller's Faction. And I want to start by saying that, at the government meeting today, Mikola Janović Azarov promised to ask in opposition what he would do with the International Monetary Fund. So I want to answer Mikola Janovich Azarov. If you don't know what to do with Ukraine with the International Monetary Fund and the Cabinet of Ministers in Ukraine's economy, it's worth taking the courage and resigning. Enough to torture my presence in the position of Prime Minister of Ukraine, to spread my hands, to say that there is nothing I can do, and to translate all responsibility from a sick head into a healthy head. I'm sorry, but I just want to remind you that the personal responsibility for the state of the economy, for the state of social pay, for the situation of the average Ukrainian is borne by Mikola Janović Azarov and the Cabinet of Ministers of Ukraine today. And today, when Ukraine's economy falls by one and a half years, today's GDP declines by 1.5 percent, industrial output falls by 5 percent. From these improvements, the Ukrainian people are no longer aware of what they want to do, and suicides are already taking place. So, Mikola Janović, get your courage, come to the Supreme Council of Ukraine, submit a resignation application to the Head of the Supreme Council of Ukraine, and I think we will satisfy it with all 450 votes. And now that I'm passing through, I want to respond to what the representative of the Party of Regions said that no country in the world can do without credit. Yes, it is. But what I want to say is that no country in the world can do for the first time, and the first is without the National Budget of Ukraine. And today we see one thing that ends this year. And we don't know what's going to happen next year with the state budget of Ukraine. And why so far neither the government nor the Ministry of Finance have submitted the 2015 State Budget to the Supreme Council of Ukraine. You have dozens of industrialists, people who run production, how they plan their future, if they don't know today what the minimum wage is going to be in 20015. Well, it's absurd, but do something with your government, force them to work or resign. And that's why the impact faction requires that the state budget, the draft budget for 2014, which has changed the ideology of the state budget and the interests and social welfare of Ukraine be submitted to the Supreme Council this week.
ParlaMint-UA_2013-11-21-m0.u143	Finish up.
ParlaMint-UA_2013-11-21-m0.u144	From ensuring the interests and social problems of the authorities, officials and those who protect them, to ensuring social rights and raising the standard of living of ordinary Ukrainians. This is supposed to be the 2014 budget.
ParlaMint-UA_2013-11-21-m0.u145	I beg of you, the Fatherland faction. Viacheslav Kirilenko. Please.
ParlaMint-UA_2013-11-21-m0.u146	Viacheslav Kirilenko, Fatherland faction, Party "For Ukraine!" Dear voters, honourable colleagues, after today's non-vote by the Party of Regions of European Integration Laws, there is no chance of signing the agreement in Vilnius. It's less than zero for this second. Therefore, of course, it is time for us all to discuss the financing of this power by the current European Union. Just in time. We've just failed, and now give us 610 million euros for it. So it must be said that countries as a country need cheap financial resources at all times. That's true. But there is always power in the country. Now power like it is dishonest, irresponsible and anti-European. Is it important that all European nations give their cheap credit resources? For me personally, the question is because the authorities must act honestly. What honesty has been demonstrated to us? Horatios led with Europeans. "Let us free Timoshenko," said Yanukovic. At first I said, "I'm sorry." Then he said, "No, I'm sorry in part." Then he said, "No, if Parliament decides, I'll sign right away." It is now clear to all of us how Parliament will decide and how it will sign. Yeah, sorry, you know, rephrasing one of the previous presidents, the top-level cynics, the Party of Regions, if that's how they act on the issue of Euro-integration. Secondly, the funds should be made available to the European authorities. What is it, the European authorities? Yesterday Azarov in Moscow says that he saw unique possibilities in the CIS activity. This is where Ukraine does not even have full membership, where our candy is bad for them, where our pipes are bad for them, where our cars are bad for them, meat is bad for them, milk is bad for them! And Azarov, Prime Minister, found unique opportunities right there! So I'm sorry, is it the European authorities, or is it already Asian? Has she gone there yet, and here "divorce" all: Cox, Kwasniewski, Fule and all, all of them. And he thinks it's forever! Last but not least, money has to be placed in the hands of the responsible. And that's the responsibility when you go from plus to minus? The month of European integration means Russia is flooding all of Ukraine through central television channels! Putin and Medvedev are insulting us all! And now we're going to Moscow and the Kremlin! That's what somebody's gonna understand!? In Brussels, in Kiev, in Lviv, all over the country, in Donetsk the same?Oh, my God! But no one can understand it from the people who are in charge, who read, and who analyze it. So the money will be, but under European civilised authority. Glory to Ukraine!
ParlaMint-UA_2013-11-21-m0.u147	The Fatherland faction, Ivan Stojko. Please.
ParlaMint-UA_2013-11-21-m0.u148	Thank you. Dear Mr. Head, dear colleagues! Ivan Stojko, Fatherland faction, Party "For Ukraine!".. Indeed, the memorandum that we are considering today really needs Ukraine. The country that today is unfortunately having a decline in production, where the economy is braked by this power, not by "papermakers," as you said earlier. Today, after four years, neither Mikola Janović nor Mr. President can say that. But we, as an opposition faction, have stated that in protesting today's party of regions' betrayal of European direction, we do not vote in favour of any bill. And this is true because many promises have been made to both European and Ukrainian structures. But unfortunately, when we go to the shore, we begin to melt our state with the hands of the Party of the Regions. So Ukraine needs to know about this, and I think Ukrainians will come to their conclusion. But when it comes to today’s situation, is it really not clear why we don’t have a budget in parliament now that November is running out? Why does the Prime Minister, while in Russia, claim that everything will depend on the position of Ukraine in the process of negotiating with Russia and will be budgeted? And the finance minister comes here at the same time and says we need the money, which is basically 5 billion dollars to stabilize the economy and stuff. Dear friends, today Ukraine has one question to solve -- the question of Europeanism, the question of its future. And that's why the Fatherland faction, like the entire opposition, is taking a firm stand against the direction that the Party of Regions and its satellites are offering us today. It's the Kremlin's direction, it's the direction of tomorrow, it's the direction of nowhere, it's the direction that essentially eliminates the Ukrainian statehood. And we will not allow all means and methods to eliminate what the Ukrainians have been fighting for hundreds of years. We will do everything to make Ukraine and it will be forever. Glory to Ukraine!
ParlaMint-UA_2013-11-21-m0.u149	Ladies and gentlemen, time for the speech is up. So what's the offer? It's time for a break. This law was voted for tomorrow, after considering Euro-Integration Laws, because it is a very important issue for the state. And now I declare this morning's meeting of the Supreme Council closed. And at 16 o'clock, we'll continue our work. Thank you.
