ParlaMint-UA_2013-04-16-m1.u1	Deputies! Please prepare for registration. Turn on the "Race" system. [[16:02:17]] Registered -314 There were 314 national deputies registered in the session hall. You'll be 315. I declare the evening session of the Supreme Council of Ukraine open. We continue to consider the issues of the day’s order. A draft Decision on the renaming of a village of the town type Presence Dergachev district of Kharkiv district (registration number 1204) is under consideration. I beg you, the head of the committee, David Vážajevich Zvania.
ParlaMint-UA_2013-04-16-m1.u2	Honorable National Deputies of Ukraine! The Kharkiv District Council addressed the Supreme Council of Ukraine with a review of the name of the village of the town-type Transcentric Dergachev district of Kharkiv district to the village of the town-type Transverse. The name of the village has been initiated in connection with official documents for residents of the village of the town type The average testimony at the birth of Ukrainian citizens’ passports, technical passports on buildings, state acts on land, and so forth. The name Transverse was used. This resulted in differences between the official name of the village and the village council and documents certified by the informal seal. As a result, residents of the populated area have been deprived of the possibility of making civil and legal contracts, the activity of privatization of land has been suspended, as the name of the occupied item does not correspond to the official calculation of the administrative and territorial units of the Kharkiv region. The question of the name of the village of the city type Preszycko, supported by the territorial community in the local referendum, is agreed according to the legislation, discussed and approved by the Prescienské Selenské, Dergačivské district and Kharkiv district councils. As a result of the consideration of the issue, the Committee agreed to recommend to the Supreme Council of Ukraine, in accordance with article 85, paragraph 29, of the Constitution of Ukraine, that the village of the town-type Transverse Dergachev region of Kharkiv region should be renamed the village of the town-type Transverse. Please ask the National Deputies to support the stated draft of the decree (register 1204) and its adoption as a basis and as a whole. Thank you. Thank you.
ParlaMint-UA_2013-04-16-m1.u3	Have a seat. Ladies and gentlemen, is there a need for discussion? None. I'm betting on the vote on the draft Order (Registration No. 1204) on the renaming of the village of the city-type Transverse Dergachev district of Kharkiv district for adoption as a basis and as a whole. Please vote. [[16:05:31]] For 267 Against 0. It's been held down to one. There was no vote — 84. Decision taken. The factions. "The Party of Regions" – 121, "The Fatherland" – 49, "The Hit of Vitalia Klicka" – 29, "Freedom" – 30, the Company – 23, non-fractional – 15. The draft Decree (registration 1205) on the renaming of the village of Mazinka Preyaslav-Hmelnicki district of Kiev is under consideration. Committee leader David Vajaevich Zwania, please.
ParlaMint-UA_2013-04-16-m1.u4	Honorable National Deputies of Ukraine! The Kyiv District Council addressed the Supreme Council of Ukraine on the change of the village of Mazinka to the village of Mazinka. The renewal of the village of Mazinka has been initiated by its inhabitants in view of the fact that, since the 1960s, official documents, birth certificates, Ukrainian citizens' passports, state acts on land, technical passports on buildings and civil law treaties have been used, and so on, a name that does not correspond to the official calculation of the administrative and territorial units of the Kyiv region. As a result, residents of the community have been deprived of the possibility of entering into civil law agreements, and the activity of privatizing land has been suspended. The question of the renaming of the village of Mazinka was supported by the territorial community in the general assembly of citizens, agreed according to the legislation, reviewed and approved by the Mazinska Rural Preyaslav-Hmelnitsky region and the Kyiv District Council. As a result of the discussion, the Committee agreed to recommend to the Supreme Council of Ukraine, in accordance with article 85, paragraph 29, of the Constitution of Ukraine, that the village of Mazinka be renamed the Preyaslav-Hmelnicki district of Kyiv region to the village of Mazinka. We ask the National Deputies to support the project (registration 1205) and accept it as a basis and as a whole. Thank you.
ParlaMint-UA_2013-04-16-m1.u5	Is there a need to discuss? People's MP, please. Mishchenka, national deputy. Turn on the microphone. Sergei Mishchenka, please.
ParlaMint-UA_2013-04-16-m1.u6	Dear colleagues! This is an example that unfortunately, when the village was changed, one letter of Russian "and" couldn't translate to Ukrainian "and" with a dot. This is a knowledge of Ukrainian. And for 10 years, people can't form an inheritance, they can't form other civil law agreements, they can't privatize or sell land. There's nothing they can do about it because people sitting in government offices can't normally translate the name of a village from Russian to Ukrainian. And that's why I'm grateful to the committee for the fact that over the course of 10 years, for three summonses, we've hit this village six times and we couldn't vote here in the Supreme Council. That's why I'm asking everyone to support me. This is my district, and I still think it's a village from tomorrow.
ParlaMint-UA_2013-04-16-m1.u7	Let me finish.
ParlaMint-UA_2013-04-16-m1.u8	I think people are finally thanking those bureaucrats who have led the Supreme Council in one letter. Thank you.
ParlaMint-UA_2013-04-16-m1.u9	Unfortunately, it's one letter, but it's our job.
ParlaMint-UA_2013-04-16-m1.u10	I'm voting on the draft Order (Registration No. 1205) on the renaming of the village of Mazinka Preyaslav-Hmelnicki district of Kiev for adoption as a whole. Please vote. [[16:10:05]] For 310 Against - 0, held - 0, not voted - 59. Decision taken. The draft Decree (Registration No. 2722) on parliamentary hearings on "Problems in the Development of Ukrainian Bookkeeping, Distribution and Prospects for Reading Support in Ukraine" (15 May 2013) is under consideration. The committee’s chairman, Anatolyovich Kirilenko, reports. How will we view it, with a reduced procedure? Please vote for this proposal. [[16:11:22]] For 199 Against 6, held – 47, did not vote – 120. Decision taken. Please, Viacheslav Anatoliyovich.
ParlaMint-UA_2013-04-16-m1.u11	Thank you, Mr. Head. Viacheslav Kirilenko, Fatherland faction, Party "For Ukraine!" Dear voters, dear colleagues, you are invited to propose a proposal for a regulation called "Problems for the Development of the Ukrainian Bookstore, the Distribution Book and the Prospects for Reading Support in Ukraine." With the proposal to hold such parliamentary hearings on May 15, this year. We all realize that this problem is very important and it's not even as humanitarian as it is economic. Because book publishing, book distribution is polygraph, it's also publishing power, it's also jobs, and it's, of course, competitive or not Ukrainian culture. Because the final consumer is the reader, and the readers, unfortunately, in our country, are becoming less and less active readers every year. Not least, because that's the policy of government. We already have less than one book available to a citizen in Ukraine. And by the way, in the developed countries of the world, this is 5 to 10 books per citizen. And we have less than one Ukrainian. This situation needs to be rectified through a complex of economic and humanitarian decisions from supporting a book of distribution and networking – a book store, to creating acceptable conditions for our publishers who do not stand competition. Because competition is unacceptable to foreign publishers. And already 85 percent of this market, the book market is occupied or controlled by foreign publishers, virtually all the countries that are bordering us. This situation needs to be corrected, and this is how I propose that we discuss it at the May 15 parliamentary hearings. Please be supportive.
ParlaMint-UA_2013-04-16-m1.u12	Thank you. Have a seat. From the committee, please, Yavorovsky Vladimir Aleksandrovich.
ParlaMint-UA_2013-04-16-m1.u13	Vladimir Yavorowski, head of the bookkeeping and distribution committee. And, of course, Kiev, the Trinity. Dear colleagues, the question that the Committee on Culture and Spirituality and the author of Kirilenko raises for discussion and hearing in the Supreme Council is extremely important and extremely painful. The thing is, in these years, Ukraine has fallen into such a bookstore hole, or you just won't tell me what to compare with anyone. If the Poles today have about 3.5-4 books per soul, for 1 Polish, if the Russians today have about 3.6 books for every Russian today, we Ukrainians don't even have one book for a citizen who lives in Ukraine. We have a huge problem when, in fact, almost all rural libraries are closed today, which, however it may be, whatever literature is, interesting, more interesting, less interesting, but still functioned as libraries. Today, almost all of them, in all of these libraries, have rustled castles long ago, there's not a book coming from the government budget that buys the state right into the Ukrainian libraries. And only Bill Hayes Foundation, we managed, in our previous call, to get in touch with him, and he has a fund that started to upgrade Ukrainian libraries a little bit, but only those that have light, where there's heat, and they don't have it in about two thirds. We have a huge problem today, and in fact, Russia is carrying a huge amount of smuggled literature that has huge benefits in Russia. And to compete with a Ukrainian book with itself, today with Russian in our market is virtually impossible. I'm not saying that they're actually closed to everyone today.
ParlaMint-UA_2013-04-16-m1.u14	Let me finish.
ParlaMint-UA_2013-04-16-m1.u15	In the district centers, virtually every bookstore is closed and it is not possible to buy a book. Because of this, this subject is very important for Ukraine’s future, for its people, for its generations, and for its children, it is very important. Because of this, we ask that we support this decision, and we hold hearings that we can use to advise some very specific and important things after this government.
ParlaMint-UA_2013-04-16-m1.u16	Thank you. A report by the secretary of the Committee on Culture and Spirituality Maria Vasilovna Matios Please.
ParlaMint-UA_2013-04-16-m1.u17	Maria Mathios, Vitaly Call's Faction. My fellow Members, I have no doubt that today Parliament will fully support the committee's decision to hold parliamentary hearings: "On the status and problems of the Ukrainian Bookstore, the distribution and support of books in Ukraine." I understand that we do not have any motive in Parliament to ignore this important social theme today. Let's think about these numbers. In Ukraine, less than one book per capita and no translated Ukrainian book is published in a foreign language for the benefit of the State. This is not a normal situation in today’s civil world. At the same time, more than 250 books of French authors have been published in Ukraine in the last 15 years for the promotion of the French State and the French Embassy in Ukraine. I think during the parliamentary hearings, "The state of Ukrainian Bookkeeping and Distribution," we can all, together as a parliament, give an adequate and sober assessment of the Ukrainian book market, and we can think smartly about how to get back to modern and dynamic policies in the humanitarian sphere? We understand that a man without a book is a wild man and a crusader without a bookstore is a cave, not the main street of the capital. And that is why, I understand, and I ask the authors of this ruling, I ask the entire Parliament to support the hearing order, the parliamentary hearings on the state of the bookkeeping in Ukraine.
ParlaMint-UA_2013-04-16-m1.u18	Thank you. Would you like to make a statement on this matter? Two, two, against that, please register with the factions. Vitalia Klitschko faction, Hit it, Heroshenko, please.
ParlaMint-UA_2013-04-16-m1.u19	Ladies and gentlemen, I hope that we all realize that it is the people's MPs of Ukraine who should demonstrate that the Ukrainian political elite should be educated and, above all, support this issue of bookkeeping, in the matter of what we should read with you books. In order for us and our voters to read the Ukrainian book, it must be accessible. First of all, children’s literature, which is now completely inaccessible to most Ukrainians because it is worth as much as parents cannot afford to buy a child’s book. Ukraine loses its reputation as one of the most read - out countries in Europe. And we can lose a whole generation of people who love the book. So in fact, the political forces, the parties that like to set an example here in Russia, have to mention here how the Russian Federation supports its bookkeeping, which there are aids for publishing a children's book, for publishing modern literature, for publishing a classic. We have to mention that high-rise of Ukrainian literature that's going to reach the reader today, we have with you, all of us in the districts, to mention that in the rural libraries of school children have not seen a new book yet. For ten years these funds have not been updated. Why? Because it's not available. And in fact, it is an honor for us today to support such hearings, to support this not only by voting for such hearings, but also by voting for a decision that will be drawn up on the basis of these hearings, to support the Ukrainian books and to take a better experience of the countries of the West, Russia, in order to support the book itself. Thank you for your attention.
ParlaMint-UA_2013-04-16-m1.u20	The faction of the Party of the Regions, Anna Mikolayevna Herman.
ParlaMint-UA_2013-04-16-m1.u21	Dear friends! The idea of hearing in Parliament about the development of the Ukrainian Book Study is, of course, correct. And, of course, the Party of the Regions, the faction of the Party of the Regions will support it. For us, it is a very important thing, we have done a lot, done and done for the development of the Ukrainian book and for the dissemination of the Ukrainian book. But parliamentary hearings should not become, you know, such cries over the fate, the bitter fate of Ukraine, the Ukrainians and the Ukrainian books, should not become, you know, or any reason to call the Crusader a cave and the Chinese a wild man. I think these should be the hearings we're drawing, we'll draw a clear plan for the development of the Ukrainian book, access to the bookkeeping of talented people, and so that the Cabinet of Ministers, all the other executives, can report to us clearly at the end of the year on the implementation of this plan. I call for this kind of action and this kind of scenario, and I assure you that our faction will strongly support this good idea. Thank you for your attention.
ParlaMint-UA_2013-04-16-m1.u22	Freedom faction, National MP Mirny.
ParlaMint-UA_2013-04-16-m1.u23	Please give the word to Irina Pharion. Thank you.
ParlaMint-UA_2013-04-16-m1.u24	Including Irina Farion.
ParlaMint-UA_2013-04-16-m1.u25	Go on, go on. Dear colleagues! So, Party of Regions, get ready, please take a note of "fa." Well done! They took a note of the fa. It's brilliant. So, your honorary colleagues, I'm talking to all the free, not the slaves, you obviously know that those who read the books are directing those who watch the TV. I think you actually want to belong to the first category. On occasion, I want to remind you that Nestor the Writer said that books are rivers that wash the body of the state. So I'm probably going to finish my intellectual memories, because part of the Dwarves Hall is flooded with these thoughts. And I'm just going to emphasize the very important context of this problem, which is of an exceptional political nature. According to extremely important data from the Ukrainian National Committee of the International Chamber of Commerce, 50 percent of Russian - speaking, Russian - language, books and brochures now operate in Ukraine, with 32 percent covering newspapers and magazines. I'm asking a rhetorical question: Is there 4 million Ukrainians in Russia who are officially referred to as 4 million, either by one newspaper or by a Ukrainian book? So today’s situation with the Ukrainian Book Study has been treated exclusively as Russian occupation in the country. And you don't have to call it "Russian Peace," because "Russian Peace" is Ukrainian Peace. In 1712, I remind you, we stole that name. Therefore, if we do not seize space for the Ukrainian book, we do not regain our spiritual independence. I think we're going to vote for this decision. Party of regions, louder, louder, please!
ParlaMint-UA_2013-04-16-m1.u26	The faction of the Company of Ukraine, Gordijenko, National Deputy.
ParlaMint-UA_2013-04-16-m1.u27	Sergei Gordijenko, faction of the Ukrainian Company, Poltavščina. Honorable Chairman, Honorable Colleagues, Honorable Radio Listeners, and Televisers! I would like to draw your attention to the source and source of such crocodile tears. We had everything to do with the Ukrainian book. And I'd like to draw the attention of the reporters, the co-reporters, to the millions of circulations that were in Soviet times, and to the interest in the book, when many of you couldn't even get the signed edition itself. I would like to ask everyone today who initiated these parliamentary hearings, and the faction of the Company of Ukraine will support them, why, just at the time that you were in power in turn, the opposition to the most destructive blow was inflicted on our bookkeeping and the book of distribution. You tell me where you shared in these 20 years of publishing that we had: both childish, scientific, and technical, and academic, and others. You can tell me who was involved in the fact that it was just a network of distribution books that was stolen, because in every area and in most villages, there were shops where the book was being implemented. Tell us exactly about the price of a book that was in Soviet times and the price of today. Can a father without a job buy a child a book? It was then read because it was written about life. Today, such works are written, sadly, that no one can be forced to read them. So, Your Honor, the Company's faction will support these very parliamentary hearings. But let's see what they give us. Most of the parliamentary hearings held are still in the field.
ParlaMint-UA_2013-04-16-m1.u28	Deputies! The discussion is over. Wasn't Fatherland speaking? One minute for you. Please, Tomenko.
ParlaMint-UA_2013-04-16-m1.u29	Dear colleagues, it is clear that our colleague Viacheslav Kirilenko has proposed a determination and a position of faction -- a serious, fundamental, professional approach to the situation at these parliamentary hearings. I just wanted to add another very important segment, and I think the government would have to gather information for parliamentary hearings and provide information on the state of libraries. I just did. During the days, he received a call from the Brovarsky District Library, where the local authorities, the mayor of the city, sent her to the village, because this comfortable place could be sold. We need to stop today. By the way, we have a moratorium on closing and evicting libraries. It's the only social cultural Ukrainian resource we have to protect, the libraries. And second position. Volodymyr Vasilovich, we have a bill that has so far not been submitted by a constitutional majority, where we have freed from the solicitation of library purchases that could buy books at a much lower price. The presentation of the Ministry of Culture, the President has made a commitment, we must return to the Hall and vote on this law.
ParlaMint-UA_2013-04-16-m1.u30	Ladies and gentlemen, I am voting on the draft Decree (Registration No. 2722) on Parliamentary Hearings on "Problems in the Development of the Ukrainian Bookstore, Distribution and Prospects for Book Support in Ukraine" (15 May 2013) for adoption as a basis and as a whole. Please vote. [[16:29:23]] For 344 Against - 0, held - 0, did not vote - 46. Decision taken. The factions. Party of Regions - 154, Fatherland - 74, Vitalia Klicka - 35, Freedom - 35, Company - 26, non-fractional - 20. The draft decree on parliamentary hearings on "Availability and quality of general secondary education is being introduced. ( October 23, 2013) I have been studying the Bible with Jehovah’s Witnesses. The head of the Committee on Science and Education, Lilia Mikhailovna Grinevich, reports. How will we view it? Please vote. Who's in favour of reviewing the reduced procedure, please vote. [[16:30:30]] For-188. Report.
ParlaMint-UA_2013-04-16-m1.u31	Dear Volodymyr Vasilovich, distinguished fellow MPs! We proposed this project to hold parliamentary hearings in October 2013 on the availability and quality of general and secondary education. According to sociological research, Ukrainian citizens today believe in most of their, almost 70 percent that the quality of general and secondary education is constantly falling. But that's what the teachers are talking about today, and that's what the experts are talking about. Today we have every reason to say that general education is in deep crisis. This has to do with the government’s completely marginal approach to this area, expressed in unbelievably underfunded. In fact, local self - government authorities are left behind in a situation where they are forced to optimize the network of educational institutions. In particular, this year, according to district government administrations, 143 schools are scheduled to be closed again. However, this closure is not motivated by transferring children to better learning conditions, to a better quality of education. There's only one factor. Savings on Ukrainian children There's a whole bunch of other problems in this area. This is an outdated content of education, including the involvement of officials and, in particular, the minister of education in the content of education. At the same time, we have a totally careless attitude toward the teacher. We have a lack of unity in the actions of all branches of government regarding the education system, a lack of participation.
ParlaMint-UA_2013-04-16-m1.u32	Give me a minute.
ParlaMint-UA_2013-04-16-m1.u33	insufficient public participation and importance in the impact of education. So I urge all the deputies to vote in favour of this decision as unanimously as the Committee on Education and Science has done, understanding the absolute urgency of this issue.
ParlaMint-UA_2013-04-16-m1.u34	Thank you. Would you like to talk about it in the hall? None. You don't? I'd like the deputies to sign up for a discussion. Two for, two against. Please, National Deputy Zelik.
ParlaMint-UA_2013-04-16-m1.u35	Please pass the word to Alexander Sich.
ParlaMint-UA_2013-04-16-m1.u36	Pass it on, please.
ParlaMint-UA_2013-04-16-m1.u37	Your Majesty, Mr. Head, the noble colleagues of the national MPs! The faction of the All-Ukrainian Freedom Union will no doubt support the draft decision to hold such hearings. Today, the situation in general secondary education does not give any reason to talk about its quality or accessibility. The financing of general secondary education is meager. Today, the State does not fulfil its obligations to finance those powers that are delegated to local self - government. I've just asked my colleagues in the Ivano-Frankiv region, funding education in the budget area for protected articles, i.e. wages, billing, utilities, nutrition is almost 95 percent. There is virtually no development budget, such as repairs, reconstructions, and the acquisition of teaching equipment. And if we talk about the problem of small-scale schools today, about the ominous optimism, I don't talk about the lack of correlation between the State standard of education and the curriculum, the gaps in financing institutions for gifted children, the relaxation of Ukrainian history and culture in the programs of general secondary schools. And all of this is happening in the background of the aggressive development of Ukraine's phobia, which we see in this room, antisocial politics, the usurpation of power, the destruction of any foundation of democracy. What can we get on the way out? On the way out, we can get dictatorship in a remarried, denationalized and uneducated society. God forbid, we and our grandkids have such a destiny. So we clearly support this project. Glory to Ukraine!
ParlaMint-UA_2013-04-16-m1.u38	The Fatherland faction, the national deputy of Yavorowski.
ParlaMint-UA_2013-04-16-m1.u39	Dear colleagues, I can't help but convey my word to the distinguished Ukrainian researcher of anti-Ukrainian activities, Dmitri Tobacco, Mikoli Tomenko.
ParlaMint-UA_2013-04-16-m1.u40	Please.
ParlaMint-UA_2013-04-16-m1.u41	Dear colleagues, I'd like to draw your attention to the problem, especially the availability of education. Today, and this morning we were talking about such a sad story that I appeared in a letter from Minfin in January 2013 about the actual recommendation to eliminate extra-school education. In fact, this is a continuation of the so-called concept of optimisation of education, which today has mastered the general line of government and the Ministry of Education. And this system is extremely dangerous and harmful. Therefore, the first topic that we need to discuss at such parliamentary hearings is clear mechanisms, tools for when the rural community is going to close down the rural school. I've been here for two years to convince the deputies to vote on my bill to propose the next mechanism. In theory and practice, rural schools can only be closed for the consent of the rural community. Not the village council, but the general congregations of villages, villages, or cities. This is the only mechanism that is non-conflict when we can get out of this situation. The second problem is actually the intellectual potential of this system of education — teachers. Under pressure and pressure from the public, and the trade union, the government finally adopted the Tariff Regulation. And the teachers will be counted to the salaries of January 1st, although this amount is not the same as in the General Agreement between the Ministry and the trade unions. So I urge the government here to be consistent and pay teachers the amount they deserve from January 1, 2013. And of course it's quality. Today, we can't allow the experiments that the Ministry of Education is doing on schoolchildren, on the curriculum. I understand that Dmitri Tobacco, he has his mission, he wants to prove that he is an important minister of education because he is involved in anti-Ukraine politics. But this does not mean that we must pursue such anti - Ukrainian politics in this position. We'll be supportive.
ParlaMint-UA_2013-04-16-m1.u42	The faction of the Company of Ukraine, Gordijenko.
ParlaMint-UA_2013-04-16-m1.u43	Sergei Gordijenko, faction of the Ukrainian Company, Poltavščina. From the beginning, I would like to tell all the radios, the TVs, my colleagues that the factions of the Ukrainian Company will support the holding of such parliamentary hearings. But I would like to point out that, unfortunately, it is true that in Ukraine there is an active reduction in the school network, a deterioration in school conditions, a deterioration in the material security of those who are doing this particular teaching process. And when the opposition today, too, sheds tears, speaking of the negative actions of power, I'd like to remind you. 2008 budget for which she voted today It was then, it was put in, and voted in favour of today's opposition, it cut down, it changed 112 social laws, including teachers' laws. But a few very pragmatic things. Now, I'd like to draw attention to the state of education, there, abroad. In particular, I came from Transnistria, where more than 100,000 of our Ukrainians live. The number of schools is catastrophicly inadequate, and only the school in Bender is functioning, and there are several other places. The textbooks provided by these schools are one order and one pace away from the programs that are here in Ukraine. I'd like to see you all look closely at the material base of those schools that are abroad, but where Ukrainians and Ukrainian citizens live. Let's focus on why the programs don't spread, especially the school bus, to those Ukrainians and those citizens, and their children living abroad, it should also be the subject of parliamentary hearings. Thank you.
ParlaMint-UA_2013-04-16-m1.u44	Last one, I'm asking for the Vitaly Call Faction, Rosenko.
ParlaMint-UA_2013-04-16-m1.u45	Paul Rosenko, strike faction. Of course, when we talk about the quality of education, we should also talk about the prestige of a teacher or a teacher’s profession. What quality and prestige of the teacher’s work can we talk about when today the workers in this budget field receive the lowest wages in Ukraine? Moreover, I would like to draw attention to one of the country's distinguished national deputies, the State budget for 2013 was approved at the end of last year. From January 1, teachers were to receive a higher salary according to the new minimum wage level. The necessary promotion of the Cabinet of Ministers of Ukraine was approved only on March 27, 2013. So for three months, all the budget workers — teachers, doctors, social workers, scientists — were paid in an old-fashioned way. There's no other way to call it the negligence and irresponsibility of the Cabinet of Ministers. That is why we support this decision. But, Volodymyr Vasilovich, a question and a request to you, look, I raised this question last time, the Faction "WILL" introduced a draft Ordinance on Parliamentary Hearings on the Consequences of Pension Reform. Today, we are considering five other options for parliamentary hearings. Our decision was registered much earlier than the five decrees. Why it is no longer to be taken to the meetings of the Supreme Council for the second time. I'd like to put a warrant on the machine and put forward a proposal on Thursday for the strike faction (it's number 2501) to hold parliamentary hearings on the pension system. What's more, the committee's positive decision on this is.
ParlaMint-UA_2013-04-16-m1.u46	We'll turn it on on Thursday. One minute the faction of the Party of Regions, Chechetov.
ParlaMint-UA_2013-04-16-m1.u47	Dear Vladimir Vasilovich, distinguished colleagues! In a large way, indeed, there is a problem that could have been brought to Parliamentary hearings. But there is a purely procedural point: we always approve the schedule of parliamentary hearings at the beginning of the session, for the current session when the timetable for the session is approved. It is already the case that parliamentary hearings are approved for the next session, for which we do not have a schedule of work. There will be parliamentary hearings tomorrow, 15th-year orders, 16th-year orders, and then perhaps the next cadence will draw up a plan for parliamentary hearings. We therefore request that consideration of this order be postponed to September of the month when we vote and approve the timetable for the next session. Thank you.
ParlaMint-UA_2013-04-16-m1.u48	Ladies and gentlemen, I put to the vote the draft Decree 2771 on parliamentary hearings on the subject "Availability and quality of general secondary education. State and ways of improvement" October 23, 2013, for adoption as a basis and as a whole. People's deputies, please vote. [[16:44:46]] For 199 Against – 2, held – 58, did not vote – 123. The decision is not taken. Factions: Region Party 17, Parenthood 75, Vitalia Klicka Strike 31, Freedom 35, Ukraine Company 27, non-fractional 14. The draft Resolution on Parliamentary Hearings on "Contemporary state, ways and prospects for health reform is being considered. It is proposed for June 5, 2013. The head of the Committee of the Baytian Tetjana Dmitrovna will report. How will we view it? Please vote. Short-circuited? Please vote. Decision taken. [[16:46:04]] For 202 Against 48, held – 10, not voted – 126. Decision taken. Report.
ParlaMint-UA_2013-04-16-m1.u49	Dear Volodymyr Vasilovich, distinguished national deputies! The initiative to hold parliamentary hearings on the subject: The ways and prospects of reforming the health sector of Ukraine are the nine Ukrainian National Deputies of all five MP factions working at the Health Committee. Our committee at its meeting on 13 March 2013 reviewed the draft decree and decided unanimously to recommend that the Supreme Council of Ukraine hold such hearings on 5 June 2013. Dear colleagues, the lack of medical reform throughout the years of Ukraine's independence has led our citizens to live 12 years less than Europeans. In Ukraine, the highest rate of population decline in Europe. Today, the reform is taking place in four pilot regions, while another 23 regions are also taking steps to reform medicine. For all the countries of the world, medical reform is a very complex process, and even in countries such as the United States, Germany, Spain, France, and Spain, both citizens and medical personnel met and the criticism of opposition was no exception to Ukraine. In view of this, there is a need to discuss the first results of the reform of medicine, its problems, and its ways of coping. The positive experience in the pilot regions should be widespread throughout Ukraine. Negative experience, errors must be corrected. That's what the pilot project is all about. Honorary colleagues, through parliamentary hearings, will receive new, additional suggestions for improving the legislative provision of medicine. We're going to be able to formulate these proposals.
ParlaMint-UA_2013-04-16-m1.u50	I'm asking you to finish the date.
ParlaMint-UA_2013-04-16-m1.u51	Parliamentary hearings. Please support the decision of the committee of all factions of Parliament and work together to ensure that Ukraine finally overcomes the demographic crisis, so that every hour in Ukraine is born not 52 children as it is now, but at least 100, so that the life expectancy of Ukrainians is not 69 years, as it is now, but at least 80, as it is in civilized countries. This important goal can be achieved only by working together, together, and constructively. Thank you for your attention. I wish everyone good health. And I ask you to support this determination.
ParlaMint-UA_2013-04-16-m1.u52	Willing to accept in the discussion are there? If you'd like to sign up, please, two for, two for, two for, two for, two for. Please, Kilincarov Spiridon, faction of the Communist Party. Please turn on Spirey's microphone.
ParlaMint-UA_2013-04-16-m1.u53	Ladies and gentlemen, I'd like to welcome the main and the main. [[B in m in s a l in]] Well, hit it, you don't embarrass people, please! People want reform, change. Where's yours? To date, it is very important to bear in mind that our constitutional rights are violated. The reform itself takes into account human rights violations. First. It's that the station's closing down. Second. The people who are studying and paying off crazy money today are over 55 years of age. That is, there are costs for people of retirement age. We must clearly understand and justify reform economically. The Communist Party supports hearings because they must ultimately be clearly reported, regions (what has happened, what is wrong) in order to improve the situation and people, our people, to enable them to live, to receive full medical care. And you, free men, instead of supporting, you're against the people!
ParlaMint-UA_2013-04-16-m1.u54	The Freedom Union. Leonov.
ParlaMint-UA_2013-04-16-m1.u55	Please pass the word to Saint Hanenko.
ParlaMint-UA_2013-04-16-m1.u56	Pass it on, please.
ParlaMint-UA_2013-04-16-m1.u57	Dear colleagues! The "Freedom" faction of the All-Ukrainian Union supports the proposed draft regulation on the state, prospects and ways of developing a health system. [[B in m in s a l in]] Today’s state of health is both catastrophic in terms of satisfying the need for quality and affordable medical care for patients and in terms of the social and material status of health workers as well as the conditions for their professional activities. [[B in m in s a l in]] What is currently happening in Ukraine in the area of health reform is an adventurous, systemsless, chaotic job that leads to a worsening situation. That is why we believe that a frank professional conversation that is not involved in parliamentary hearings should bring constructive and perspective into the reform process. [[B in m in s a l in]] We hope that these hearings will be attended by a full, open participation, both by medical personnel and by patients’ union representatives. At the same time, we are convinced that the political side in this process should be minimised. We have a joint effort to agree on how one of the most sensitive spheres of activity of Ukrainians will be organized in the interests of the vast majority of Ukrainian society. I hope that by working together at these parliamentary hearings, we will bring about a situation from a dead end. Glory to Ukraine!
ParlaMint-UA_2013-04-16-m1.u58	The Fatherland faction, Blackwolf, National MP.
ParlaMint-UA_2013-04-16-m1.u59	Please pass the word to Roman Ilik.
ParlaMint-UA_2013-04-16-m1.u60	Roman Ilik is given the word.
ParlaMint-UA_2013-04-16-m1.u61	Roman Ilik, Fatherland faction, 121 constituency. Dear Mr. Head! Dear fellow MPs! Today, Janukovic gave his greetings to Richter and Akim. We hope that this greeting is a quick and perhaps urgent resignation of the minister, both her particular and the government as a whole. For which this so - called authority and government will not be taken today, it immediately causes a collapse in Ukraine. Today, health - care reform has been translated into health problems. Today, all health - care problems are translated into local budgets, and local budgets are known to be empty. And today a powerful example of how reforms are taking place in health care is actually these experiments that are taking place in four so - called pilot districts. In the nation, these pilot districts were baptized as experiments on humans. So, I think it would be very appropriate to listen to these parliamentary hearings as to how these experiments are going on. Because today, health reform is also a quick reform. What it has led to today is well - known especially for those living in rural areas. Today's reform, called the Sanitary Epidemiology Service, has led to the fact that people are already joking that vet control functions are called the "Academy of Cattle" service. This is today the reforms that the Party of Regions is producing with the communists. Therefore, we urge you to support these hearings.
ParlaMint-UA_2013-04-16-m1.u62	Vitalia Klitschka faction, Deputy Rosenko.
ParlaMint-UA_2013-04-16-m1.u63	Please pass the word to Ion's Mary.
ParlaMint-UA_2013-04-16-m1.u64	Give me your word.
ParlaMint-UA_2013-04-16-m1.u65	Good afternoon! I want to say that the strike party faction will support the draft Parliamentary Hearing Order on "Contemporary state, ways and prospects of reform in the area of health care in Ukraine." I want to say that unfortunately, health reform is now more of a matter than a solution. And I'm not going to count the number of issues that we now have on this reform. I want to say that everyone on the committee unanimously also supported the draft Law on Parliamentary Hearings. Sadly, the previous issue of education failed the majority. But there are very important questions for the state. And the health issue is a national interest. And that's why we have to vote without all kinds of political elements. Thank you.
ParlaMint-UA_2013-04-16-m1.u66	One minute, Party of Regions, national deputy Zurawski.
ParlaMint-UA_2013-04-16-m1.u67	Dear colleagues! There are many people in this room who have serious questions about the direction of the Ministry of Health. And to some of the leaders at the regional level. Therefore, we should support these parliamentary hearings, making certain claims to those who fail to handle their responsibilities. There are comments and complaints about some shortcomings in reform, the closure of medical facilities, and the reduction of health workers. By the way, I'd like to say that there's not a word in the President's Program about closing hospitals. There is a requirement for a medical reform. So our faction will support these parliamentary hearings. Thank you.
ParlaMint-UA_2013-04-16-m1.u68	Postfaction national MP Lazko, one minute. And we'll make decisions.
ParlaMint-UA_2013-04-16-m1.u69	Oleg Lazko, Radical Party. Dear Vladimir Vasilovich! Dear National Deputies! I want to prove to you that tomorrow at the Kiyevrada session, a so-called optimisation of the network medical facilities in Kiev is planned, which is the result of tomorrow's proposal to close 23 hospitals in Kiev. In my hometown of Chernigovishte, tens of them are closed to hospitals, in Dnipropetrovště, Winnitztina, Kharkivščina, all over Ukraine. That is, the so-called medical reform carried out by the government of Azarov and implemented by Minister Bogityrov, it's not a medical reform, it's a medical genocide of the Ukrainian nation, the purpose of which is to deprive people of the opportunity to receive proper medical care. So Parliament has to vote in favour of hearings to first stop this medical genocide. And I'm asking you to do it. Tomorrow the Supreme Council will consider a bill on a moratorium on the closure of hospitals.
ParlaMint-UA_2013-04-16-m1.u70	I am voting on the draft Decree (Registration No. 2560) on parliamentary hearings on "Contemporary state, ways and prospects for reform in the field of health of Ukraine". June 5th is proposed. For adoption as a basis and as a whole. People's deputies please identify themselves. [[16:59:34]] For 359 Against - 0, held - 0, not voted - 40. Only 399. Decision taken. The draft Decree (Registration No. 2502) on parliamentary hearings on "Ensure equal rights and opportunities for women and men. Problems and effective mechanisms for solving them." The committee will make a proposal on the date of its consideration. How will we view it? Please vote in favour of the reduced procedure. Please vote. [[17:00:34]] For 210 Decision taken. Ukrainian National Deputy Condratiuk Olena Konstantinovna reports. Please.
ParlaMint-UA_2013-04-16-m1.u71	Honourable national MPs, the purpose of these parliamentary hearings is to have a broad discussion and to produce effective mechanisms for ensuring the equal rights and opportunities of women and men. During the years of independence, several parliamentary hearings were held to discuss equal rights and opportunities in Ukraine. The last one was in 2006. This means that over the last seven years this problem has not been sufficiently discussed at Parliament level. This is because the majority of the men in this room and in the highest public offices claim that they are Europeans and are fully prepared to support European decisions regarding women's representation in the authorities. Regrettably, this did not lead to a marked increase in the representation of women in the Supreme Council of the active calling. The current legislation guarantees women and men of Ukraine equal rights and opportunities. In fact, by hiding behind traditions, these rights are constantly being violated and ignored. This situation is not limited to Ukraine. That is why most European countries have introduced quotas for the representation of women in the authorities. In turn, business has declared an increase in women’s presence among the top management of companies to 40 percent in the near future. It should be a shame that Ukraine’s State, which guarantees Euro-integration aspirations, does not fulfil its obligations to citizens of Ukraine or to the European Union on the issue of gender equality. In fact, the State of Ukraine discriminates against women in pay. It does not ensure equal representation of women in power and in management positions. It does not involve women in politics, but it does not prevent them from doing so, nor does it fight domestic violence. It is particularly important to discuss a national programme to ensure the equal rights and opportunities of women and men by 2016 when hearings with representatives of public authorities, public organisations and experts.
ParlaMint-UA_2013-04-16-m1.u72	Finish it.
ParlaMint-UA_2013-04-16-m1.u73	The program is scheduled for May this year. All these questions need to be discussed during parliamentary hearings. Therefore, please support the authors of this decree and thank the Human Rights Committee for supporting us.
ParlaMint-UA_2013-04-16-m1.u74	Thank you. The head of the Committee on Human Rights, National Minorities and International Relations, Valérie Vasilovich Paccan, reports. Please.
ParlaMint-UA_2013-04-16-m1.u75	Good afternoon, dear colleagues, good afternoon, dear Head, distinguished voters! The Committee of the Supreme Council on Human Rights and National Minorities and International Relations at its meeting on 20 March considered the decision to ensure the equal rights and opportunities of women and men, the problems and actions of the mechanisms for their resolution, introduced by the People's Deputies of Kondratjuk, Paccan, Heratchenko and Coastan (2502), and recommended that the Supreme Council of Ukraine hold such parliamentary hearings. The aim of these hearings is to analyse the implementation of public policy in ensuring equal rights and opportunities for women and men. Please note that these parliamentary hearings were held for the last time in 2006, i.e. 7 years ago, and there have been many issues and problems that need to be addressed. Why are such parliamentary hearings necessary? First, it is disturbing that more than 3 years ago, the Cabinet of Ministers of Ukraine programme for the promotion of gender equality in Ukrainian society, i.e. society is not working without this programme for almost 3 years. Secondly, as the delegation of authority from the Committee on Family Rights and Youth to the Committee of the Ministry of Social Policy was lost for a year and there is a lot of gaps in this area. Third. Our nation does not implement the concluding observations and recommendations of the UN Committee. Thus, such hearings are the subject of serious discussion in the framework of parliamentary hearings. In summary, I would like to stress that the Committee's view is consistent with the hearing initiators' position on the relevance of parliamentary hearings on the subject. The committee decided to recommend it.
ParlaMint-UA_2013-04-16-m1.u76	Let me finish.
ParlaMint-UA_2013-04-16-m1.u77	Draft decree of the Supreme Council of Ukraine on the holding of parliamentary hearings: "Ensure equal rights and opportunities for women and men. Problems and effective mechanisms for solving them", introduced by the People's Deputies: Condratjuk, Paccan, Heratchenko and Coast (No. 2502) and held on 9 October 2013. Please support the hearing. Thank you for your attention.
ParlaMint-UA_2013-04-16-m1.u78	Thank you. Is there a need to discuss? None. I would like to vote on the draft Decree (Registration No. 2502) on Parliamentary hearings on the theme "Ensure equal rights and opportunities for women and men. Problems and effective mechanisms for solving them." Spend October 9th for adoption as a whole. People's deputies, please vote. [[17:06:58]] For 213 Against - 2. It's been held up to 50. They didn't vote - 127. The decision is not taken. By motive. By factions, I ask: Region Party 26, Parenthood 75, Vitalia Klicka Strike 36, Freedom 32, Company 29, non-fractional 15. On the basis of the vote. Please, Terjehohin, on the basis of the vote.
ParlaMint-UA_2013-04-16-m1.u79	Unfortunately, respected colleagues in our country have such a shameful phenomenon as sexism, when a person of one sex has fewer rights and fewer powers than a person of another sex. Look, recently, last year. "everytime," Azarov said, "it's not the place of women in the government. Imagine! He must have confused that a woman and a man should have equal rights. He must have confused that there were only erogenous zones. So let's go back to that question, and I think we're all going to vote friendlyly.
ParlaMint-UA_2013-04-16-m1.u80	Please on the grounds of the vote of Irina Heratchenko.
ParlaMint-UA_2013-04-16-m1.u81	Respectful colleagues, when it comes to gender equality, are somehow very many people who raise questions only from feminists who are not interested in family, family, and family. This is not the case. I want to say that today the government is developing a state programme on gender equality in Ukraine, and it would be very important for Parliament to say its word here too. What's more, you and I talk a lot about Euro-integration. This is one of the components of European integration: the equal opportunities of a man and a woman not only to build a family but also to build a career and combine it all. Moreover, under the headship of Ukraine in the OSCE, this is one of our important programs, one of our important commitments. And, frankly, this kind of non-voting today is about such an important subject, and it also shows the attitude of men, most of whom in this room, to the subject of gender equality. I would like to emphasise that the authors are representatives of the largest political factions, and I would like to ask the Party of the Regions to support this issue. This is our proposal for the government to work together on this important programme, this is our commitment to international organizations and the issue of European integration. I appeal to the Head of the Supreme Council to return to this.
ParlaMint-UA_2013-04-16-m1.u82	Thank you, thank you. [[Applause]] There's an offer, there's an offer to go back to voting. Please, let us listen and vote for the return.
ParlaMint-UA_2013-04-16-m1.u83	Dear colleagues! [[B in m in s a l in]] Our experts, when making proposals, were guided only by the following: we are already planning for the next session, in the autumn, yes. We are not opposed to hearings themselves, we were opposed to planning this work too far, otherwise there are problems and then we cannot address these problems. We agree to go back and we will support this decision. Only one request: we cannot set, we do not have a schedule for the next session, we do not set a date, and we vote to consider a month. We can't put October 9th, I'm explaining why. We do not yet have a work plan for the next session. Yes, so we can only define a month of work, according to the Rules, then that will be the case. Do we have a deal? It's a deal. I'm asking my colleagues to support me.
ParlaMint-UA_2013-04-16-m1.u84	The Communist faction, Peter Mikolaiovich Simonenko.
ParlaMint-UA_2013-04-16-m1.u85	Simonenko, the Communist faction. In short, respected colleagues, the Communist faction will vote in favour of returning to this issue. But I want to draw your attention to someone else. Don't we know what the situation today is -- equality in rights between men and women? Most of all, unemployment among women, the woman pays the least wage today, in fact, the single mother does not enjoy the State support that would be needed. Multi-child families suffer, heroin mothers are not surrounded by the attention of the State, except that the sign is issued, nothing more is, in practice, provided specific assistance. So I'm drawing your attention to someone else right now, and I'm drawing your attention to what needs to be done today, to do what needs a real woman to be respected in society, not to talk about hearings that each time turn into another chat. That is why I call once again for action, not for conversation.
ParlaMint-UA_2013-04-16-m1.u86	Please, National Deputy Zharavsky.
ParlaMint-UA_2013-04-16-m1.u87	Dear colleagues, I have a request for everyone: let's re-vote the draft Parliamentary Hearings Regulation on education. That's the right thing to do. We all learn: both our children and grandchildren learn. Please support me. So let's do the same thing that Alexander Sergiyovich Efraemov said about equality between men and women. Please!
ParlaMint-UA_2013-04-16-m1.u88	Ladies and gentlemen, the proposal is to return to consideration on two issues: parliamentary hearings on education and return to ensuring the equal rights and opportunities of women and men. Can I come back? May I put it to a vote? I would like to put it to a vote: go back to the draft Decree (2502) on parliamentary hearings on "Ensure equal rights and opportunities for women and men: problems and action mechanisms for solving them." People's deputies, please vote for the return. [[17:14:30.]] For three hundred Against 0. We're holding on to two. We didn't vote, 39. It's 398. Decision taken. Ladies and gentlemen, let's define how the committee proposes. The Supreme Council will work. We'll have a third session with you. Let's make a decision to hold these hearings on October 9th and take off the question. Come on. People's Deputy Sas. And Alexander Sergiyovich. Please.
ParlaMint-UA_2013-04-16-m1.u89	Thank you, Vladimir Vasilovich. Sergei Sass, Fatherland. Vladimir Vasilovich, I wanted to ask you to pay attention to what was said by Alexander Sergiyovich Efraemov. We cannot set a specific date for the next session today because there is no calendar plan. So in this case, we can confirm the hearings for the month, in this case for October, and then adjust it so that the committees can prepare for these hearings. Thank you.
ParlaMint-UA_2013-04-16-m1.u90	That's a good offer. Put it to a vote? It's about voting on a decree (registration number 2502) to hold parliamentary hearings on "Ensure equal rights and opportunities for women and men. Problems and effective mechanisms for solving them" consider in October months for adoption as a basis and as a whole. People's deputies, please vote. [[17:16:43]] For 365 Against 0, holding – 1, not voting – 31. It's a total of 397. Decision taken. The factions. Regional Party - 157, Fatherland - 84, Vitalia Klicka - 38, Freedom - 35, Company - 30, non-fractional - 20. When we hear each other, we make all the decisions. Let's move on. We agreed to go back to the draft Decree (2771) on parliamentary hearings on "Availability and quality of general secondary education: status and ways to improve." There is an offer to return to consideration. I'll bet you a vote. I'd like you to identify yourself. [[17:17:52]] For 348 Against 0, held – 1, not voted – 48. Decision taken. The factions. "The Party of Regions" is 150, "The Fatherland" is 80, "The Hit of Vitalia Klicka" is 35, "Freedom" is 34, "The Company is 29, non-fractional is 20. Any suggestions we'll be considering in October? What month? The Rules usually read once a month. Let's look at this in September. What is the head of the committee? Your suggestions, please. Make an offer.
ParlaMint-UA_2013-04-16-m1.u91	Ladies and gentlemen, this is where two parliamentary hearings came out in October. But unfortunately, in general secondary education, we can't do the listening in September, because all the statistics are forming for the beginning of the school year. In addition, there are many organizational issues in September’s education. So we asked for this in October, at the end of October.
ParlaMint-UA_2013-04-16-m1.u92	Did you ask for it in October? Please, National Deputy Sas. Suggestions.
ParlaMint-UA_2013-04-16-m1.u93	Thank you. Dear Volodymira Vasilovich, section 223 of the second section says that parliamentary hearings are held during the sessional period, usually not more than once a month. Usually, yes. If the Supreme Council decides otherwise in this case, then I think we can move away from this standard. If we don't agree on October, we can spend November, I think, right?
ParlaMint-UA_2013-04-16-m1.u94	Let's support the committee. I'm voting on the draft Decree (Registration No. 2772) on parliamentary hearings on "Availability and quality of general secondary education: status and ways of improvement" to be heard in October. Take as a whole. People's deputies, please vote. [[17:20:54]] For 367 Against 0. Hold on to 0. It wasn't a 31st vote. Decision taken. The draft Decree (Registration No. 2712) on parliamentary hearings on "Ukrainian labour migration: status, problems and ways of resolving them" is being considered. On July 3, 2013, the head of the subcommittee, Bogdan Mikhailovich Benjuk, will report. How will we view it? I'm putting this motion to discuss a reduced voting procedure. Please vote. [[17:22:00]] For 184 Against 60. It's holding up to 80. The vote was 143. Decision taken. Please, Bogdan Mikhailovich, report two minutes.
ParlaMint-UA_2013-04-16-m1.u95	Dear Chairman, distinguished national MPs! Perhaps this problem, which exists for our Ukrainian fellow citizens who live and work in the territory of our country, is not a simple matter. And we realize that all the problems associated with our labour migration are incredibly complex. And helping our fellow citizens is our civic position, it is our duty, and it is like the deputies of the Supreme Council of Ukraine, the first rule that we should formalize here with you today. Undoubtedly, in order to learn about all the problems that exist in Ukraine's labour migration, and we also know that this is close. They work abroad from 2 to 10 million of our fellow countrymen each year. And the problems that relate to economic issues, to social issues, are incredibly things that need to be addressed in time. We offer parliamentary hearings on July 3, 2013. It must be remembered that, together with its diaspora and labour migration, Ukraine is a powerful Ukrainian civilized space, not only in a humanitarian but also in an economic sense. According to the National Bank of Ukraine, the volume of private money transfers from abroad in 2011 amounted to more than $7 billion. The ratio of remittances to GDP has not changed much compared to the previous year and is 4.3 percent. These are incredible indicators, and we understand that the fate of our fellow citizens, our Ukrainians now depends on this, gentlemen, community. I think that common sense will win that we will be able to conduct these hearings in Ukraine.
ParlaMint-UA_2013-04-16-m1.u96	Should I finish? Let me finish.
ParlaMint-UA_2013-04-16-m1.u97	I'm sorry. And Ukrainians, our citizens, who live in the territory of our country, will no doubt thank us, members of the Supreme Council. Thank you.
ParlaMint-UA_2013-04-16-m1.u98	Is there a need to discuss? I won't. Please sign up for factions. The Faction of Freedom, Illenko, please.
ParlaMint-UA_2013-04-16-m1.u99	Please pass the word to Igor Miroshnichenko.
ParlaMint-UA_2013-04-16-m1.u100	Please, Game of Peacekeepers.
ParlaMint-UA_2013-04-16-m1.u101	Ladies and gentlemen, this is a very important question. As a representative of the All-Ukrainian Freedom Association last month, I was asked on behalf of our faction to visit the Ukrainian labour migrants of Spain. And I'm going to tell you that today is a very painful question. The question of the return of our labour migrants to Ukraine. They support their families and receive double taxation. Because they pay taxes in countries where they are forced to work and in their home country where they send money. I want to point out that labour migrants today are one of the main investors in the Ukrainian economy. And today we need to hear them and help them do everything they can without taxes to invest in the Ukrainian economy the money they earn abroad. There is a huge problem for Ukrainian migrant workers, the legalization of property that has been acquired abroad. Today, they are not of their own free will or of their own initiative to work abroad. But they are eager to return home, to their home country, to their home country, to their home country, to their home country. And it is very often that the problems in legislation prevent them from doing so. They can't move, legalize the property they've acquired abroad. And that's why these parliamentary hearings are extremely important for millions of Ukrainians who live abroad today, but dream of normal conditions for them to come home, work for the Ukrainian economy, and multiply the wealth of our country. And finally, I want to make a simple point. The National Artist of Ukraine, Bogdan Benjuk, is a part of the Fascist Hall. This is their attitude and their respect for Ukrainians, national artists, and Ukrainian art. Very.
ParlaMint-UA_2013-04-16-m1.u102	Ladies and gentlemen, if you whistle, name your surnames, let us vote and send him for three days at a time. What's your last name? [[B in m in s a l in]] Who was it that whistled? Party of regions, Jaroslav Suhi, please.
ParlaMint-UA_2013-04-16-m1.u103	Dear colleagues, the problem of Ukrainian labour migration is extremely important in the cycle of a complex problem of social and labour relations, in the context of market transformations. And it's not as simple as it might seem to anyone at first sight. I would like to propose to the author of the legislative initiative, the author of this proposal, first to consider this question at committee hearings with a view to making material that would. You put July here, it's only a few months away, we're not going to be able to prepare normally for this. You see, billions of dollars to us go to Ukraine from our employees, people work hard there, but people don't rush here to Ukraine. To get people back to Ukraine, they don't have to close the exits, the ways of emigration, but they need to create normal working conditions here. And most importantly, let's take a look at the concept of reforming the pay system that we've just declared. If we don't raise the payroll fund, we won't move this terrible problem out of place. And people don't go there lazy, people go there who want to make money because they don't have the ability to create here. And more and more often, the people of Ukraine ask themselves, why does a Ukrainian man feel comfortable in terms of wages in Spain and Italy, in Russia and in Britain, around, anywhere but Ukraine? But because we've only declared the concept of reforming the pay system, we still haven't left. I would suggest that we hold such hearings first on the committee, hold so-called committee hearings on this subject. Thank you.
ParlaMint-UA_2013-04-16-m1.u104	The Fatherland faction, Tomenko.
ParlaMint-UA_2013-04-16-m1.u105	Dear colleagues, we're talking about a very serious social problem, and you know, with all due respect to all the High Council committees, we have committee meetings or committee hearings coming from middle-level officials and officials who don't influence anything and they don't decide anything. We need to solve this problem independently. But I am convinced that this is the question that has been asked, as reported by Bogdan Benjuk, is the question of parliament, the question where there must be a minister here at all. As we now have in the people say, the Ministry of Assembly of Citizens and Revenue for Power. Yes, this ministry and government leaders should be present and they should say that we respect and respect those people who are the largest investor in the Ukrainian economy, rather than looking for a mechanism to tax them with extra taxes when they return money to teach children, build houses here and raise the Ukrainian economy. Because this social group has made it almost the biggest group to control, that they don't know what they're doing abroad. Families are broken up because either mothers or parents have gone to rescue these families in a nonexistent real economy. Second position. The Ministry of Foreign Affairs should inform us when, as with Portugal and some other countries, bilateral agreements have to be signed so that our people don't hide there after work, are socially protected, and are confident that they are working for a country that is still just creating conditions for their work. So it's very obvious that this is the topic of government, parliament and the community, and representatives of public organizations that protect the interests of our people working in the world. So the "Fatherland" faction will support this initiative so that such parliamentary hearings will take place and take place at the highest level.
ParlaMint-UA_2013-04-16-m1.u106	Vitalia Calla, Rosenko, please.
ParlaMint-UA_2013-04-16-m1.u107	Please pass the word to Valentina Nastavajchenko.
ParlaMint-UA_2013-04-16-m1.u108	Pass the word.
ParlaMint-UA_2013-04-16-m1.u109	Valentin Nastawichenko, Vitalia Klitka faction. Deputies! We urge everyone to stop simulating the entire conversation about labour migrants from Ukraine, and to move to specific assistance and protection for the people who, by the millions, our Ukrainians, are forced to leave our country and are also discriminated against by their own government. Then we have specific suggestions for hearing. First, to restore the right of Ukrainian citizens who are temporarily working abroad to vote in elections without any exceptions or restrictions, including in majority districts. Question number two, the Customs and Tax Code, make the necessary changes that allow for a tax-free and free return of people, property made abroad, and funds. Thirdly, at parliamentary hearings, we must listen to both the government’s head of government and the minister of profile, here we support, the whole opposition together, why the government is so indifferent and so unprofessional to supporting Ukrainians abroad. Specific questions as to how much a Ukrainian school is supported abroad, how much a Ukrainian library is supported abroad, how much a bill from the government on job creation in Ukraine, in which areas and in which particular enterprises are involved. That's why the Vitalia Klitka faction, in order to stop talking and do something for people, for people working in our country, thinks these hearings are extremely important, but according to these hearings, the responsibility of the government, the specific professional ministers and the Prime Minister, and the bill for people. Thank you all for your attention.
ParlaMint-UA_2013-04-16-m1.u110	One minute, the Communist faction, Simonenko.
ParlaMint-UA_2013-04-16-m1.u111	Simonenko, the Communist faction. I inform you, my dear colleagues, that there were 27 million jobs in the Soviets in Ukraine. Today, less than 10 million jobs. Secondly, the Company's faction will vote in favour of these hearings in order to hear the answers to questions as to why the so-called “working migration” in the territory of western areas of Ukraine was the most prevalent. For example, where nationalists are in power and where they are most crying about patriotism and patriotism, it turns out, is how to drive their Ukrainian out of Ukraine. Next. Of course, we would like to hear, and why are the owners of all the largest factories in Parliament represented here, and why should we hold the hearings? Why do we today have a salary of 300 euros from a metalworks compared to 3,000 euros in Western Europe? Here are the questions to be answered, but it will never be answered for one simple reason that the interests of the simple labourers, their lives, their conditions are not of interest. Today, he is interested in how to rob, rob, including how to drive him out of Ukraine.
ParlaMint-UA_2013-04-16-m1.u112	The discussion is over. Don't scream, please. I am voting on the draft Decree (Registration No. 2712) on Parliamentary Hearings on "Ukrainian Labour Migration: Status, Problems and Ways of Resolution" to be held on 3 July 2013. For adoption as a basis and as a whole, in July months. Please vote. [[17:36:15]] For 346 Against zero, holding – 1, not voting – 48. Decision taken. Factions: Region Party - 141, Fatherland - 82, Vitalia Klicka - 38, Freedom - 36, Company - 30, non-fractional - 19. A draft Order amending the Appendix to the Supreme Council of Ukraine Order (No. 11-VII of December 25, 2012) is being submitted for consideration. "On the Committees of the Supreme Council of Ukraine of the Seventh Convention" on subjects of knowledge. As reported by Kožemyakin, chairman of the committee, please.
ParlaMint-UA_2013-04-16-m1.u113	Good afternoon, dear fellows! I will report, not as chairman of the committee, but as a member of the committee and a national deputy who, together with all the members of the committee, has decided to draft this bill on its introduction to the Supreme Council, discussion and decision-making. But unfortunately, we have found that today only a fraction of the smaller committee is left by the authors of the bill, five of them from the minority. All of our colleagues from most who were the authors of the same bill, they're not going to say, at the same time, something they said they were afraid of, but they canceled their signatures. Perhaps the authority of Mr. Kiwalov, who today is headed by the Rule of Law Committee, which has passed this issue of knowledge on criminal and procedural legislation, which has been on the committee for life, which I am leading today, i.e. the legislative security of law enforcement authorities, because the CPC is not only dividing it into the judicial system and the judicial investigation, but also has a legal investigation, i.e. it has a bearing on the IMF, the GPU, and the tax police. As a result, as true officers are said to be very sad to leave the field of battle, I remained under this project. And I want to apologize to my minority colleagues. I'm sorry to waste your time today, but, well, it's out, this determination, and we have to spread it. Between you and me, I'd like to hear Mr. Kiwalov's arguments, because, aside from what he says he's got somewhere, he signed someone quietly under his knee, well, that's not an argument. I think the Motherland faction will support it, and everyone else should vote in accordance with legal practice. Thank you.
ParlaMint-UA_2013-04-16-m1.u114	Thank you. I'd like to ask the head of the committee, Mr. McKeenka Volodymyr Wolodymyrovich, please.
ParlaMint-UA_2013-04-16-m1.u115	Mr. Volodymira Vasilovich, distinguished national MPs, we report that the committee has not considered a draft decree of the Supreme Council of Ukraine amending the Appendix to the Order of the Supreme Council of Ukraine by number 11-VII of 25. 12.2012 "On the Committees of the Supreme Council of Ukraine of the Seventh Convention" on objects of knowledge submitted by Ukrainian National Deputy Cosemyakin (number 1191). At the same time, the Committee reached a decision of the Committee on the Rule of Law and Justice of April 3, 2013 on a draft decree recommending that it be rejected by the Supreme Council of Ukraine. In view of the above, we invite the Supreme Council of Ukraine to decide on the draft decision of the Supreme Council of Ukraine of 1191.
ParlaMint-UA_2013-04-16-m1.u116	Is there a need to discuss? None. [[B in m in s a l in]] I can't see. Please register with the factions for discussion. Helicopter, Vitaly Klitschka faction, National MP. He's not taking the floor.
ParlaMint-UA_2013-04-16-m1.u117	I'd like to give the floor to Roman Chernega.
ParlaMint-UA_2013-04-16-m1.u118	Pass it on, please. I'm asking Romano Chernega to be handed over. You're giving it to someone.
ParlaMint-UA_2013-04-16-m1.u119	Roman Cherneg, Vitaly Caller Faction. Dear colleagues, the strike faction on this issue will be maintained.
ParlaMint-UA_2013-04-16-m1.u120	I'm asking you, the Fatherland faction, Ilik, the National MP. I beg you, the Freedom Union, the Cherniaks.
ParlaMint-UA_2013-04-16-m1.u121	I'm asking you to pass the word to Oleg Schneitzer.
ParlaMint-UA_2013-04-16-m1.u122	I ask that I say the word Kiwalov, head of the committee. [[B in m in s a l in]] Turn on Kiwalov! You've been thinking for a long time, Your Honor.
ParlaMint-UA_2013-04-16-m1.u123	Dear Vladimir Vasiljevic, distinguished colleagues! First of all, I would like to say that I am not categorically in favour of this project and I would like to answer Mr. Cosemakin and explain why I am not in favour of his draft decision. First, the law defines criminal proceedings as pre-trial investigations and trials as a set of procedural actions in connection with the commission of acts under the Ukrainian Criminal Liability Act. This means that all stages of criminal proceedings are linked. Moreover, separation could lead to duplication of legislative work and the preparation of non-agreed draft laws in criminal proceedings. Secondly, the experience of previous calls cannot be used in this case, since the new Code of Criminal Procedure has significantly increased the judicial control of the pre-trial investigation bodies. The Code introduces a new investigating judge institution. It is simply not possible to set out outside the judicial stage of criminal proceedings, which underlines the absurdity of Mr. Cosemakin's idea of dividing the subject matter of committees. Thirdly, I would like to recall that the current decree was made by representatives of all the MPs, all agreed with the current drafting. [[B in m in s a l in]] Moreover, on 6 March, at a meeting of the Committee, we established a separate subcommittee on criminal procedure law. The representative of the opposition, Irina Kupreychik, was elected Chairman of the subcommittee. [[B in m in s a l in]] In summary, I would like to point out that there is no need to change the subject matter of committees in order to improve existing criminal procedure legislation. It is sufficient to work with existing regulatory procedures to make changes to existing criminal procedure legislation. Also noting that we have considered this draft order at the meeting of our Committee on 3 April this year. And all members of our committee, including representatives of the opposition, have taken a unanimous decision.
ParlaMint-UA_2013-04-16-m1.u124	Thank you. I'm asking you, Cherniakov, the Freedom Union.
ParlaMint-UA_2013-04-16-m1.u125	I'd like to give Oleg the floor to the Schneider.
ParlaMint-UA_2013-04-16-m1.u126	Please, take it easy.
ParlaMint-UA_2013-04-16-m1.u127	Oleg Knaczykki, the All-Ukrainian Freedom Union. Dear colleagues! Well, really, in previous convocations, this subject of knowledge was divided and it was part of the security committee. But let's not forget what was in the past summons was the Criminal Procedure Code. It was the Stalin-Brežnoev Criminal Procedure Code, which gave unlimited powers to the investigating authorities. At that time, the court performed only a formal function. Now, with the development of criminal and procedural legislation and the requirements of Europe and judicial reform, the court is at the heart of the system of the judiciary. The very term "criminal process", its synonym, is criminal justice, which includes actions aimed at achieving justice. And the tracking function is only helpful. Therefore, the investigating authorities should act only in the interests of justice. In fact, the committee created a subcommittee on the matter of the Criminal Procedure Code, which is headed by an opposition MP. That's why our faction, the faction of the All-Ukrainian Freedom Union, will continue. Thank you.
ParlaMint-UA_2013-04-16-m1.u128	One minute to the head of the committee and we'll make a decision.
ParlaMint-UA_2013-04-16-m1.u129	Dear colleagues, Mr. Kiwalov, I have heard your argument. I want to say the next thing. All you have said is that you should not refer to the author of one Coszemiakin, all the authors that were before. These are members of your committee. And here's a letter from Mr. Oliynik, and he's known to be a frontman to you on legal issues and a man of authority. And he wrote the same thing I said in my speech. Moreover, he writes that this distribution is objectively based on the legal nature of the Criminal Procedure Code. You tell him. That's the first one. And the second. Don't send me a question about the KPC to the committee to answer, and then I'll send it to you. That's how you took it, you text me, and then I answer. And don't wave your hand too hard, or the wind.
ParlaMint-UA_2013-04-16-m1.u130	I'm betting on the vote on the draft Decree (Registration No. 1191) amending the Appendix to Supreme Council Regulation No. 11-VII of Ukraine of 25. 12th-2012 "On the Committees of the Supreme Council of Ukraine of the Seventh Convening" of subjects of knowledge for adoption as a basis. Please vote for the people's deputies. [[17:48:27]] For-82 Against 10, held – 129, not voted – 163. The decision is not taken. The factions. Region Party 2, Fatherland 70, Vitaly Klicka Strike 0, Freedom 0, Company 0, non-fractional 10. Let's go to chapter one. And before I go over there, I'm gonna keep working for 15 minutes. The draft Law (Registration No. 2143) on the amendment of the master and civil codes of Ukraine on the limitation of the maximum time limit for the submission of creditors is being submitted for consideration. There is a suggestion to consider the simplified procedure. Who's in charge of this decision, please vote. [[17:49:46]] For 171 Decision taken. First Deputy Justice Minister Inna Ivanovna Jemelyanova reports. Please.
ParlaMint-UA_2013-04-16-m1.u131	Dear Volodymira Vasilovich, the distinguished national deputies of Ukraine! For your consideration, there is a draft Act amending the two codes: The Civil Code and the Code of the Master. What's he up to? To date, only a minimum limit has been set for the submission of creditors’ claims, which is 2 months, and there is no maximum limit. Thus, the law proposes to make changes, as I said, to two codes, to the Civil and the Master, and to make it clear that a minimum of two months is set for the submission of creditors’ claims and a maximum of three months. It's of course, we have this critical deadline, it's in the legislation of many countries. We've analyzed the legislation of many European countries, that's Britain, and our neighbours in Lithuania, Estonia, everywhere, there's a clearly defined, set maximum term, there's no unlimited time limit as defined by us. This would allow, along with all the bodies that carry out checks, particularly tax, pension and so on, various funds to delay the review and thus have an unlimited period of procedure to stop the legal personality. Asking you to support the bill in the first reading is extremely important. Thank you.
ParlaMint-UA_2013-04-16-m1.u132	Thank you. Have a seat. He will report to the head of the Economic Policy Committee, Ivanchuk Andry Volodymyrovich. Where is he? Please, you were just here. Please.
ParlaMint-UA_2013-04-16-m1.u133	Good afternoon, fellow MPs. It is proposed to review the session room of the draft Ukrainian Law on Amendments to the Civil and Economic Codes of Ukraine concerning the limitation of the maximum deadline for submission of claims (Registration No. 2143 of 31.01.2013). The bill was introduced by the Government. We considered it on the committee on March 6th, and the committee made a unanimous decision to support it. The bill is designed to amend article 105 of the Civil Code and article 60 of the master code of Ukraine. These changes propose to reduce the maximum time limit for creditors to legal persons from six to three months. The committee decided to recommend a bill to the Supreme Council of Ukraine on its first reading as a basis. Thank you. Please support the hall.
ParlaMint-UA_2013-04-16-m1.u134	Do you want to talk about it? They're desirable. Please.
ParlaMint-UA_2013-04-16-m1.u135	Vote? Let's move on to making a decision. I am voting on the draft Act (Registration No. 2143) amending the Ukrainian Code of Commerce and Civil Code to limit the maximum time limit for the submission of claims by creditors for acceptance as a basis. People's deputies, please vote. [[17:53:43]] For 315 Against 0. Hold on to 0. They didn't vote 60. It's a total of 375. Factions: Region Party – 137, Fatherland – 62, Vitalia Klicka – 33, Freedom – 34, Company – 30, Postfaction – 19. The draft Law (Registration No. 1185) amending article 59 of the Ukrainian Law on the Use of Nuclear Energy and Radiation Security on the Customs Processing of Radioactive Materials is being introduced. How will we view it? [[B in m in s a l in]] Let's listen to the reporter. First Deputy Head of the State Nuclear Regulatory Inspectorate, Hashev Mikhail Hazretaliyovich, and then we will vote. What are some suggestions? Under a reduced procedure without discussion, that's how we agreed. [[B in m in s a l in]] Discussing? Please report, I'll put it to a vote. Then I'm asking for a reduced procedure. Whoever's behind this proposal, please vote. [[17:55:25]] For 186 Against 27, held 48, did not vote 112. Decision taken. Please report.
ParlaMint-UA_2013-04-16-m1.u136	Dear Vladimir Vasilovich, distinguished national deputies! Clumsy. You're looking at a draft amendment to the Ukrainian Law on the Use of Nuclear Energy and Radiation Security. This refers to the order of customs clearance and customs clearance of the transport of radioactive materials across the state border of Ukraine. In particular, it is proposed that article 59 of this law be supplemented by the following sentences: "The passage of radioactive materials across the state border of Ukraine and their customs clearance are carried out by customs authorities for the availability of a permit for the transport of radioactive materials." The need for such a supplement is due to the fact that on June 1, 2012, the new Customs Code, which states that the passage of radioactive materials across the state border is necessary for this purpose, if required by the laws of Ukraine. Earlier this issue was settled by Decree of the Cabinet of Ministers of Ukraine at number 80 since 2006. This now requires a solution at the level of Ukrainian law, or amendment to article 59. By the way, such order is applied in the countries of the European Union, and it meets the requirements of MAGATE. That's why I'm asking you to back me up. Thank you for your attention.
ParlaMint-UA_2013-04-16-m1.u137	Thank you. Have a seat. The head of the Committee on Fuel and Energy, Nuclear Policy and Nuclear Security will report back to Vladimir Volodymyrovich Bandurov, please.
ParlaMint-UA_2013-04-16-m1.u138	Dear Vladimir Vasilovich, distinguished colleagues! Mikhailo Hazretaliyovich gave us a detailed account of the circumstances that made it necessary to adopt the bill. I will just add that at the meeting of the Committee on Fuel and Energy, Nuclear Policy and Nuclear Security on 6 March, it was decided to recommend to the Supreme Council of Ukraine a draft Act amending article 59 of the Ukrainian Law on the Use of Nuclear Energy and Radiation Security on the Customs Formulation of Radioactive Materials (No. 1185) as a basis. Please be supportive. Thank you for your attention.
ParlaMint-UA_2013-04-16-m1.u139	Have a seat. Is there a need to discuss? Please sign up for factions. Please, the Freedom Union, the Peaceable People's Deputy.
ParlaMint-UA_2013-04-16-m1.u140	Alexander Mirny, the All-Ukrainian Freedom Union. Dear Vladimir Vasilovich, honourable deputies! The fact is that the problem raised by the government really does happen. And I want to remind you that today, in connection with the gaps in Ukrainian legislation, there are several companies working on this market that are working on the preparation of permits for import, export and transit of radioactive goods and nuclear materials, as well as customs procedures and the delivery of radioactive materials by specialized vehicles, including customs control. The legalization of customs clearance for international transport of radioactive materials should destroy illegal delivery schemes across borders. In view of this, our faction will vote in favour of the bill.
ParlaMint-UA_2013-04-16-m1.u141	Party of regions, Koleshnichenko.
ParlaMint-UA_2013-04-16-m1.u142	Respectable Ukrainians and respected colleagues! We believe that this bill must certainly be supported. Even though national fascists support us, we will certainly vote exclusively within the Constitution and the laws in force. Why? Because, in this case, it is proposed to establish that the passage of radioactive materials across the Ukrainian customs border and their customs clearance shall be carried out by Customs authorities only if and when information is available and obtained, information technology shall permit the transport of radioactive materials in the event of international movement. In this case, there is a gap in legislation regarding the non-derogation of control over the number and movement of radioactive materials in international transport. It's very important. Because you can imagine. A group of national fascists will attack such a load, take it back and kidnap it, create a small nuclear bomb and destroy part of our Ukraine. For that to happen, we must control the movement of radioactive goods, the movement of national fascists that destroy the territorial integrity of our State. Thank you.
ParlaMint-UA_2013-04-16-m1.u143	He's done. Stop! He hasn't spoken in a while. Deputy from the Trinity of Yavorowski.
ParlaMint-UA_2013-04-16-m1.u144	Right, right, Vladimir Vasilovich. I'm glad you learned. Vladimir Yavorowski, Kyiv, Troustina, Fatherland," but also the first head of the Chernobyl Disaster Committee, in the first call. Society, the problem, of course, is very big. We are a country in terms of radiation safety that is very specific. I want to remind you that there are 800 so-called temporary radioactive burials in a 30-mile zone today, where they've dropped their equipment, helicopters, tanks, cars and the like. We have a red forest that floats today, actually very high radiation. So today they're moving out of the zone, they're clearing the Chernobyl houses, they're taking the bricks, they're taking the rafters, they're taking the rafters, they're taking the rafters, they're taking the rafters, they're taking them, they're taking them out, and they're taking them for 30 kilometers. There are many problems in this regard. We're not building a radioactive waste shelter today, Russia's not taking it in the FR, although it was built by the entire Soviet Union. Because of this problem today, transport across the Ukrainian border of radioactive waste or elements or metals is, exists and is very large. I think this bill needs to be adopted in the first reading. What's keeping me here? Once again, I want to remind you that customs authorities are being authorised to use information technology tools to transport radioactive materials. I have a question. Who's allowed it?Oh, my God! What institute? Are the National Commission of Radiation Security, or are we leaving the slide for great corruption? Hence, this law should make it clear who gives these permits and who is responsible for them. Then in the second reading, after these additions.
ParlaMint-UA_2013-04-16-m1.u145	Thank you. Let's move on to making a decision. I'm voting on the draft Act (Registration No. 1185) amending article 59 of the Ukrainian Law on the Use of Nuclear Energy and Radiation Security on the Customs Processing of Radioactive Materials. To be accepted as a basis. People's deputies, please vote. [[18:04:32]] For 319 Against 0. It's been held by two. There was no vote of 50. Decision taken. The factions. Region Party - 136, Fatherland - 63, Vitalia Klicka - 36, Freedom - 35, Company - 30, non-fractional - 19. The draft Act on Supplements to the Ukrainian Law on State Assistance to Families with Children (to reduce the number of documents to obtain State aid for the birth of a child) is being introduced. There is a suggestion to consider a reduced procedure. I'll bet you a vote. Vote. Those who wish will not speak – will not be discussed. [[18:05:28]] For 214 Against 23, held – 31, not voted – 103. Decision taken. Please, Igor Grigorovich Kaletnik.
ParlaMint-UA_2013-04-16-m1.u146	Dear Chairman, dear colleagues, before the beginning of my report, I would like to address you, my fellow members of the national deputies, and offer to look at the results of our work, in particular to examine how the laws that we pass with you in the session room are working. Whether these laws make it easier for people to live or vice versa, an additional bureaucratic barrier has been created, certain issues have been regulated, and some things have been led to absurdity. It should not be that legal regulations extend the authority of an official, establish additional lists of documents to be collected by a citizen and placed in one place. Remember, in the miniature Arkady Rikin: "Give me a certificate of what I need to know" about the bill (registration 2313). Its essence is very simple. The basic principle laid down in the draft law is to place the burden of collecting data and documents on the necessary government assistance, not on parents, but on public authorities. The birth of a child is always a great celebration in every family. It is not the parents ’ job to walk and seek out officials for what is theirs, that is, material help. Their free time should be primarily devoted to caring for the child, not to associating with officials. Thus, the bill provides for the maximum simplification of the state aid procedure for the birth of a child. In particular, we suggest that only one document be submitted to the socialist body by parents -- a statement of arbitrary form, a passport of one of the parents and a birth certificate of the child will simply have to be presented. Any further action to obtain the necessary data, including the registration of the child’s residence, will be carried out by government authorities on their own. Every procedure takes 10 days for the authorities to do so. Then the socialist body makes the same decision in the same term and informs the applicant.
ParlaMint-UA_2013-04-16-m1.u147	Are you done? Let me finish.
ParlaMint-UA_2013-04-16-m1.u148	In fact, the bill introduces a procedure for receiving assistance when giving birth to a child according to the principle of "one window". This will remove bureaucratic barriers and possible corruption. Please support, Your Honor, on the basis and in general. Thank you.
ParlaMint-UA_2013-04-16-m1.u149	The account. Is it? Put it to the vote? I'm betting on a draft bill (registration number 1026) to amend the Ukrainian Act "On mandatory State Pension Insurance" to improve the conditions of exit. This is what I'm following, and I'm looking at Mishchenko, and he's asking me to look into it. I'm sorry. I am voting on the draft Act (Registration No. 2313) on the introduction of supplements to the Ukrainian Law on State Aid for Family with Children (to reduce the number of documents for State aid at birth) for adoption as a basis and as a whole. Please vote. [[18:09:39]] For 326 Against 0. Hold on to 0. There was no vote – 45. Factions: Region Party – 138, Parenthood – 70, Vitalia Klicka – 35, Freedom – 35, Company – 30, non-fractional – 18. Let's take a look at Mishchenk's law, shall we not? I declare the evening session closed. Tomorrow I'll invite you for 10 hours, and we'll continue our work. Thank you all.
