ParlaMint-UA_2013-07-02-m1.u1	Invite the deputies to the hall. Ladies and gentlemen, we continue our session. Deputies, please prepare for registration. Turn on the "Race" system. [[15:59:36]] There were 342 national deputies registered in the hall. I declare the evening session of the Supreme Council of Ukraine open. The draft Law (Registration No. 2287) on the amendment of Ukraine's laws on topographical and cartographic activities and on land administration (on the introduction of state oversight rules in the field of land administration) (second reading) is under consideration. I invite the head of the Committee on Environmental Policy, Environmental Management and the Elimination of the Consequences of the Chernobyl disaster, Irina Igorovna Sekh. Please.
ParlaMint-UA_2013-07-02-m1.u2	Dear National Deputies! For consideration by the Supreme Council of Ukraine, in the second reading, a draft of the Ukrainian Act amending the laws of Ukraine on Topographical Geodetics and Graphic Activities and on Land Administration is being introduced. The first reading of the bill was adopted on June 4, 2013. The purpose of the bill is to introduce the requirements of Ukraine's laws on topographical and cartographic activities and on land in accordance with the Ukrainian Law on Fundamental Principles of State Control in the Field of Economic Activity, the legislative regulation of relations between the State and the subjects of management in the areas of topographical and geographical activity and the land-based deregulation of economic activity in the areas mentioned. When the bill was drafted for second reading, the comments and suggestions of the national MPs, the subjects of the legislative initiative, were considered and generally taken into account. Twenty-eight proposals were made by Ukrainian national deputies, including 17, including an editorially rejected -11. There are also technical proposals that are also rejected. The chief legal office of the Supreme Council of Ukraine called for a bill with observations. In particular, attention was drawn to the following: The bill changed the way government regulation was regulated as licensing for certification. In doing so, the very essence of administration and the setting of special requirements has not changed. The Chief Legal Authority notes that the proposed approach does not correspond to the provisions of articles 1 and 3 of the Constitution of Ukraine, particularly with regard to the State’s responsibility for predicting the consequences of its activities on human beings, its rights and freedoms. The changes proposed in article 14, paragraph "g", on land are a complete repetition of the bill to amend some of Ukraine's laws on land relations in order to simplify land collection procedures. There is a comment about the creation of a qualified commission. And what's really important is that, as indicated by the scientific expertise on the text of the draft prepared for the second reading, contrary to articles 108 and 116 of the Supreme Council of Ukraine Rules, changes have been made that were not considered at the time of the adoption of the bill in the first reading. The committee decided to propose to the Supreme Council to support a bill amending the laws of Ukraine on topographical and cartographic activities and on land.
ParlaMint-UA_2013-07-02-m1.u3	Thank you. Let's do some repairs. Amendment No. 1 of the People's Deputy Solvar. Is he insisting?
ParlaMint-UA_2013-07-02-m1.u4	I mean, that. Can we figure it out?
ParlaMint-UA_2013-07-02-m1.u5	Don't insist. Please.
ParlaMint-UA_2013-07-02-m1.u6	In line with the Committee's conclusions, since the proposed name does not correspond to the content of the bill, it is much broader than the one proposed by the Parliament of Solvar and, in addition to geodesy, applies to the land structure, so the committee proposes to reject it.
ParlaMint-UA_2013-07-02-m1.u7	I'll bet you a vote. Ladies and gentlemen, I ask you to sit down and work. Don't you insist? Yeah. Yes, Amendment 2 is included, People's Deputy Kutov. Amendment number 3, corner. Counted. So where do we go from here?
ParlaMint-UA_2013-07-02-m1.u8	Amendment 4 counted.
ParlaMint-UA_2013-07-02-m1.u9	Four counts.
ParlaMint-UA_2013-07-02-m1.u10	Editorially, as proposed by Kutov.
ParlaMint-UA_2013-07-02-m1.u11	Amendment number 5 counted. Amendment 6, National Deputy Kravchuk. Is he insisting? Don't insist. Amendment 7, National MP Mishchenko. Don't insist. Amendment 8, People's Deputy Solvar. Is he insisting? Don't insist. Amendment 9 counted. Ten-counted. Amendment 11, National MP Mishchenko. Is he insisting? No, it's not. Amendment 12, Mishchenka. Don't insist. 13th People's Deputies. Counted. 14th, accounted for. 15th, accounted for. 16th, accounted for. 17th National MP Kravchuk. Is he insisting? No, it's not. Next. 18th National Deputy Gink. Is he insisting? No, it's not. Let's move on. 19th National Deputy Mishchenko. Counted. 20th is negative. Is he insisting? No, it's not. 21st National MP Solvar. Is he insisting? No, it's not. Next. The 23rd is a listed, national MP Kravchuk. Next. 24th People's Deputies. Counted. 25th National MP Kravchuk. Counted. 26th National MP Kravchuk. Don't you insist? Don't insist. 27th, accounted for. Twenty-eight, accounted for. That's how. I'm asking the people's deputies to prepare for the vote. Have a seat. Thank you. People's deputies! I ask you not to run around the hall when the vote is off. Sit down, I'll put the bill to the vote. Sit down! National MP Jaroslav Suhi, sit down. You'll vote. Ladies and gentlemen, I am voting on the draft Act (No. 2287) amending the laws of Ukraine "On Topographical Geodetics and Graphic Activities" and "On Land Administration" (on the introduction of public oversight standards in the field of land administration) for adoption in second reading and in general. People's deputies, please vote. [[16:11:29]] For 277 Against 0, held – 8, not voted – 98. Decision taken. The factions. Region Party - 164, Fatherland – 8, Vitalia Klitka – 27, Freedom – 33, Company – 29, non-fractional – 16. Ladies and gentlemen, today we need to consider the appointment of the Supreme Council of Ukraine members of the High Council of Justice. It would take a long time to consider the matter in order to implement the procedures provided for in the Rules. So I suggest that we now begin our consideration of this issue in such a way that during the work of the Counting Commission on the preparation of secret ballots, we do not take breaks but continue our consideration of the issues of the agenda. Is there any objection? Then we turn to the question of the appointment of members of the Supreme Council of Ukraine. Ladies and gentlemen, the following rules of procedure are proposed. For a report from the Main Committee, give up to three minutes. I'm asking for your attention. For a report from the Main Committee, give up to three minutes. Give each candidate a seat as a member of the High Council of Justice for a speech of up to 2 minutes. To discuss the candidates by the MPs and the national MPs, take up to 20 minutes, two minutes to perform. Is this order accepted? Roger that. Therefore, honourable national deputies, the statement is given to the head of the Committee of the Supreme Council of Ukraine on the Rule of Law and Justice of Vadim Vasilovich Kolesnick. Please.
ParlaMint-UA_2013-07-02-m1.u12	Dear Chairman, distinguished People's Deputies! [[B in m in s a l in]] In accordance with article 131, part two, of the Constitution of Ukraine, the Supreme Council of Justice consists of 20 members, of whom 3 members are appointed by the Supreme Council of Ukraine. On instructions from the President of the Supreme Council, the Committee of the Supreme Council of Ukraine on the Rule of Law and Justice considered at its meeting on 15 May this year the nominations: Koleszenko Vladimir Nikolaevich, Kuzmishin Vitalia Nikolaevich and Lavrinović Aleksandr Vladimirovic for appointment as members of the Supreme Council of Justice. In addition, at the request of the President of the Supreme Council of Ukraine, the Committee of the Supreme Council on the Rule of Law and Justice considered at its meeting on 22 May this year the nominations: Vlasenka Sergey Vladimirović and Nehtriski Oleg Igorvic for appointment as members of the Supreme Council of Justice. The Rule of Law and Justice Committee considered the proposed candidates and concluded that they were all in conformity with the requirements of the Supreme Council of Justice Act of Ukraine and recommended that the Supreme Council of Ukraine be determined by secret ballot on the appointment of three, underlining, three members of the Supreme Council of Justice by means of ballot papers. I would also like to draw the attention of the people's deputies, especially those who hear little or no that, in accordance with the requirements of article 8 of the Law on the Supreme Council of Justice, 2 of the three members of the Supreme Council of Justice appointed by the Supreme Council of Ukraine must be professional judges. I repeat to you, professional judges. At the same time, I would like to inform you that two of the five proposed candidates for the posts of the Higher Council of Justice, Vladimir Nikolajevic and Kuzmishin Vitali Nikolajevic, are the judges in force. Thank you for your attention and for your support!
ParlaMint-UA_2013-07-02-m1.u13	Have a seat. Thank you. Dear National Deputies, a statement from the rostrum is given to the candidate for office as a member of the High Council of Justice, Volodymyr Mikolayovich Kolesnichenko. Please. You have two minutes.
ParlaMint-UA_2013-07-02-m1.u14	Dear Head, distinguished national MPs! I have had the privilege of representing the Higher Council of Justice for three years. And my cadence as a member of the High Council of Justice is over by the quota of the Supreme Council. And I am now the judge of the High Court of Civil and Criminal Affairs and I am exercising justice in accordance with the powers vested in me. The February session of judges of Ukraine repeatedly recommended that I be elected by the Supreme Council’s quota to the High Council of Justice. I would like to point out that I, like you and all citizens, are concerned about the state of justice in Ukraine. I want justice to be with the human face. I dreamt and did everything, and I will do everything to ensure that every citizen, when he comes to court, is confident that his rights will be violated. During my activities, political will and your legislative initiatives have made a number of changes to the Law on the Higher Council of Justice, where the structure of the Supreme Council of Justice has been substantially changed. And the judges today make up a larger portion of the High Council of Justice's constitutional composition. These are the requirements that are recommended for us to accept by the Constitutional Assembly and also approved by the Venice Commission. Every time I presented the application of the High Council of Justice to the Supreme Council, I tried to bring to your attention that these judges, who had committed trespasses, which were characterized as breaches of the oath, worthy to cleanse them of the judicial system and to release them, were released. More than 63 judges were released for violating the oath in this Hall at the request of the High Council of Justice. If.
ParlaMint-UA_2013-07-02-m1.u15	Finish up.
ParlaMint-UA_2013-07-02-m1.u16	If you decide to re-elect me as a member of the High Council of Justice, I commit myself and continue to make every effort to ensure that justice in Ukraine is impartial so that judges are independent and that Ukrainian society is satisfied with the work of the judiciary. Thank you.
ParlaMint-UA_2013-07-02-m1.u17	Thank you, sit down. A candidate for the post of High Council of Justice – Kuzmishin Vitalia Mikolaiovich – is given the floor. Please.
ParlaMint-UA_2013-07-02-m1.u18	Dear Head, distinguished national MPs! It is a great privilege for me to speak from this rostrum before you. I will say, as everyone knows, that the meeting of the judges of Ukraine has delegated me and is recommended to the Supreme Council of Ukraine to elect me as a member of the Supreme Council of Justice. As Koleszenko Volodymyr Mikolaiovich pointed out, today is a very important issue of the independence of the judiciary, and today the jurisdiction of the High Council of Justice also belongs to the question of the appointment of judges, the attraction to disciplinary responsibility, which is one of the elements of the independence of the judiciary. Ladies and gentlemen, it would be a great honor for me if you would elect me today as a member of the High Council of Justice, and I will be properly represented by the judiciary in this highly esteemed body. Thank you.
ParlaMint-UA_2013-07-02-m1.u19	Thank you, sit down. The floor is given to the candidate for the post of High Council of Justice – Lavrinovich Alexandr Volodymyrovich, please. Alexander Volodymyrovich, you have two minutes, please.
ParlaMint-UA_2013-07-02-m1.u20	Dear Volodymira Vasilovich, the distinguished national deputies of Ukraine! I don't need two minutes. I've given my consent to be elected, if you feel the same way, I won't deny it.
ParlaMint-UA_2013-07-02-m1.u21	Thank you. Have a seat. For a statement from the rostrum, the candidate for the post of High Council of Justice is Sergey Volodymyrovich Vlasenko. You don't? Please, National Deputy Petrenko. Turn on the microphone.
ParlaMint-UA_2013-07-02-m1.u22	Dear Head, dear colleagues, Sergey Vlasenko was present twice in the Hall when it came to the possibility of electing members of the High Council of Justice. Today, unfortunately, he has a court hearing in Kharkiv, so we ask him to support his candidacy. The Fatherland faction will vote in favour of his candidacy. Therefore, there is a suggestion that this issue should be included in the ballots at the time of the vote. Thank you.
ParlaMint-UA_2013-07-02-m1.u23	Yes, there is such an offer. And the word for a statement from the rostrum is given to the candidate for the post of High Council of Justice of Oleg Igorevich Knaczyk. Keep it up, 'cause she's worried. Please.
ParlaMint-UA_2013-07-02-m1.u24	Dear colleagues, I would also like to express my first thanks for having been given such an honor to be a candidate for such a high office, such an important body. I could say I'm a lawyer by profession, graduated from Lviv University, law school. I've been working with the D.A.'s office for about 15 years as a lawyer, and he's now the first deputy, as you know, to the Committee on the Rule of Law and Justice. So I know the work of the High Council of Justice, and in the case of election, I will do everything I can to ensure that there is a rule of law and justice in Ukraine. Thank you.
ParlaMint-UA_2013-07-02-m1.u25	Thank you. Have a seat. Ladies and gentlemen, let's move on to the list of candidates, please sign up from the MP factions, two minutes each faction. Please, the Fatherland faction, National Deputy Petrenko.
ParlaMint-UA_2013-07-02-m1.u26	Dear head, dear fellows! I repeat that the Motherland faction will support Sergey Vlasenko during this vote. Sergey Vlasenko meets all the qualifications required by law for members of the High Council of Justice. He's a colleague of ours because we think he was unlawfully deprived of the authority of a national deputy by the Supreme Administrative Court. In addition, we have one question for the entire hall and one of the candidates for the post of High Council of Justice, and we have a question for Justice Minister Lavrinovich. Today, Justice Minister Lavrinovich is an active member of the High Council of Justice. And when his candidature was appointed a member of the High Council of Justice by the quota of the Supreme Council, we have a very simple question: how can he be twice a member of the High Council of Justice? Is this him as the Hero of the Soviet Union, twice the Hero of the Soviet Union? That's the first question. That is why I would like to have an explanation before the vote begins for this reason so that we do not violate the Rules, the Constitution and the Law on the Supreme Council of Justice during such an important vote. In fact, members of the Supreme Council of Justice should abide by the laws and the Constitution. And if we are in the process of electing appropriate members of the High Council of Justice to allow for such gross violations, then what confidence will there be in this body? With regard to the vote, once again I would like to urge my colleagues in the hall to support the opposition to this body. I would like to remind you that the Higher Council of Justice consists of 20 members, most of whom are formed directly by the President, the Prosecutor’s Office, and the assembly of judges. Therefore, only the Supreme Council, as a college body, is the place where opposition can be represented in this highly esteemed body. We also know what the situation is now in the courts and we know that the courts have actually lost the independence provided for in the Constitution, and the Supreme Council of Justice does not perform its primary function, it does not ensure that the judicial authorities operate at the proper level. So please support the opposition.
ParlaMint-UA_2013-07-02-m1.u27	The Vitalia Klitschka faction, People's Deputy Kaplin.
ParlaMint-UA_2013-07-02-m1.u28	Please pass the word to Victor Chumaku.
ParlaMint-UA_2013-07-02-m1.u29	Let's give you a word. Victor Chumak, please.
ParlaMint-UA_2013-07-02-m1.u30	Victor Chumak, 214 constituency, city of Kiev, Dniprovsky district, political party, Vitalia Klicka. Dear colleagues, I would just like to remind you that surely the judiciary is one of the most important authorities in any country. It is also the level of confidence that citizens have in the entire nation that depends on the level of confidence they have in their hands. Because this is the arbitrator that any citizen addresses in solving any dispute. Unfortunately, today we have in 20 years of independence the lowest level of confidence in pre-trial authority. And that's not least, let's say maybe not in the first, but not least depends on the way judges are elected and elected to court. But the Superior Council of Justice is the body that must control both the activities of judges and the activities of judges, and the activities of appointments and translations, including the control of judges who make unjust decisions, make unjust decisions or commit other offences. And that's why I think the appointment to this body should be for people who have not only high educational and professional characteristics, but also high moral qualities. I think that that's where we should now select the representatives of the Supreme Council, who are essentially delegated by the opposition. Because it is the controlling powers of the opposition that must be more represented in the Supreme Council of Justice. Therefore, the strike faction proposes to support the German Oleg and Sergey Vlasenka in the Higher Council of Justice. Thank you for your attention.
ParlaMint-UA_2013-07-02-m1.u31	The faction of the Party of the Regions, National Deputy Pisarenko. Please.
ParlaMint-UA_2013-07-02-m1.u32	Dear Vladimir Vasilovich! Dear colleagues! You know, I want to remind you that in 2010, right here in Parliament, we decided to get on the road to Euro-integration, and that's why we took into account the recommendations of the Venice Commission, the Council of Europe, and decided that there would be two professional judges from the Supreme Council from three members to the High Council of Justice today. And you know, a small step that we've taken for the very purpose of de-politicizing the work of the High Council of Justice. We've long dreamed of an independent judicial system, and I don't think any factions here will argue that independent judges -- that's what our country needs, that's what citizens need us to do. So today we need to make a choice from moving away from political figures in the Supreme Council of Justice. We don't need a deputy there. We don't need political personalities there. We need judges and people who will only work in the High Council of Justice. Today, we have five candidates and two of whom have professional judges. So today, the faction of the Party of Regions will be supporting the candidature, including Alexander Lavrinović and the two professional judges who are now represented among the candidates. I would like to urge the deputies to listen to the recent recommendations of the Venice Commission, which stated that the changes to the Constitution that will be proposed by the President of Parliament and which will provide for a departure from the political personality in the judiciary*** is a positive development for Ukraine and that is what the Council of Europe calls us to do, and that is what the Venice Commission calls us to do. So today's vote is going to be one step to show our European values, Ukraine's European aspirations. So I would like to support exactly the candidates that I have mentioned. Thank you.
ParlaMint-UA_2013-07-02-m1.u33	Freedom Union, National Deputy Pankevitch.
ParlaMint-UA_2013-07-02-m1.u34	Please give Igor to Switzerland.
ParlaMint-UA_2013-07-02-m1.u35	Please, Igor Schwaika National Deputy. Turn on the microphone.
ParlaMint-UA_2013-07-02-m1.u36	Igor Schwaika, deputy faction of the All-Ukrainian Freedom Union. Mr. Head, Commissioners, gentlemen of the candidates, we have a few questions about the very order in which we will now consider these candidates in secret. Well, first of all, this is the candidate for Justice Minister Alexander Lavrinovich. Two questions must be answered in order to consider this candidate. Is he a member of the High Council of Justice today? He is a member of the High Council for Justice. In order to consider his candidacy for which the Supreme Council will vote, it is necessary for Alexander Lavrinovich to complete the mandate of the Minister of Justice and such resignation would be accepted and he would in fact cease to be a member of the executive branch. That'll be fair. Second, the question of other candidates. The candidates of Knebieko and Vlasenka are supported by the MP factions of the All-Ukrainian Freedom Union and the political party "The All-Ukrainian Union of the Fatherland". The factions supported by other claimants’ candidates are currently unknown. In an interview, the head of the Supreme Council stated that this was the President’s proposal, so I would now like to make an announcement as to which members of the Supreme Council of Justice, Lavrinović, Koleschenka, and Kuzmysin. This will now be in line with the Constitution, the Act on the Higher Council of Justice and the Supreme Council of Ukraine Rules. Our position is that we will support our colleague Oleg Knavekik and we will address this issue, including in the membership of the Counting Commission, which should work in accordance with the law. Finally, Mr. Head, another warning. We've broken the agenda again today because we're now looking at the question of the High Council of Justice by dropping the question of the Central Electoral Commission. You've crossed again.
ParlaMint-UA_2013-07-02-m1.u37	Communist faction, Simonenko Peter Mikolaiovich.
ParlaMint-UA_2013-07-02-m1.u38	Dear colleagues, the Communist faction will express its attitude towards the candidates by voting, thus allowing them to form the full composition of the Justice Council. What would I like to pay attention to, and to what should I call you, my colleagues, what should we consider? Well, first of all, in society today, there is a complete lack of confidence in the judicial branch of power, and all people clearly claim that in the courts cases are decided mainly by money: who gave more bribes, the one and the right. And that's why there's a situation where, in fact, today, the judicial branch of power is not independent, but it's part of the oligarchy regime, and from that point of view, it basically executes the main order of a powerful capital. This is a major reason, a major flaw in the fact that people do not trust the judicial branch of power. As you remember, millions are being slaughtered, and so on, it has become known not only to us in Ukraine but also far beyond Ukraine. Next. They're reclassifying the crime scene, and today we have examples of a killer becoming just a hoodlum, shortening the term behind bars. So today there is a very serious problem of responsibility, including ours as national deputies, for whom the judicial branch of authority serves. That is why we, the faction of the Company, today are proposing not only to make decisions and appoint new members of the High Council of Justice, but to seriously change today, to radically change approaches to the formation of the judiciary. And we're proposing, first of all, not just monitoring the activities of judges on the part of the High Council of Justice to ensure, but also on the part of the people. So the faction of the Company offers the choice of judges as.
ParlaMint-UA_2013-07-02-m1.u39	Let me finish.
ParlaMint-UA_2013-07-02-m1.u40	Therefore, the Communist faction offers today as a measure to ensure that citizens of Ukraine are involved in the control of the judicial branch of power. The choice of judges. Thank you.
ParlaMint-UA_2013-07-02-m1.u41	Let's hear it from the non-fractionals. People's MP, Muggles. Please. Turn it on. Please.
ParlaMint-UA_2013-07-02-m1.u42	Thank you, Vladimir Vasilovich, for the opportunity to say a few words. 17 constituency, Grigory Mutiny. I want to tell and inform my colleagues about one of the very young representatives of the high status and position of Vitaly Mikolaiovich Kuzmishina. This is the typical new young leader of the modern world, who is now 40 years old, who knows everything and can do anything. This is the first executive to build an administrative court in Ukraine, based on which all the judges of the administrative courts have been trained, and today they're driving it there to show us. Today, he is completing the construction of an administrative appeal court in several areas. This is a young prospective, intelligent, honest, just judge. And I urge my colleagues to support Vitali Mikolaiovich Kuzmishin as the future of our judiciary. Thank you.
ParlaMint-UA_2013-07-02-m1.u43	Thank you. People's deputies, we have 10 minutes to sign up. Please. It's a faction of the Ukrainian Company, the Kudra People's Deputy.
ParlaMint-UA_2013-07-02-m1.u44	Dear friends, I suggest you get to the vote quickly. Thank you.
ParlaMint-UA_2013-07-02-m1.u45	The Fatherland faction, National Deputy Petrenko.
ParlaMint-UA_2013-07-02-m1.u46	Ladies and gentlemen, I would like to return to the question of the possibility of electing one of the candidates to serve as a member of the Superior Council of Justice of Lavrinovich, because this issue was discussed on the committee. There was no unanimous decision. We have expressed our position that we should not, with violations, elect an already active member of the High Council of Justice for the same position. Therefore, if this candidature is to be made, it is necessary to suspend the mandate of the minister first, suspend the authorization of a member of the High Council of Justice for office, and then nominate in the Supreme Council for this position by the quota of the Supreme Council. Besides, I want to make a note. Nevertheless, let us be clear about what is currently happening in the system of justice and in the Council of Justice. Today, there is a rule of law that stipulates that the issue of the release of judges for breach of oaths can be dealt with in the Supreme Council only by the application of the Supreme Council of Justice. We have such a retired judge, former head of the Herson Court of Appeal. A number of criminal cases for embezzlement have been violated. It had so much information in the media that, you know, there was nowhere to put the glue. But the Superior Council of Justice has failed to file a statement for three years regarding the release of a breach of an oath. And successfully, this judge, already retired, was released in connection with retirement. He's left with all the benefits, the privileges, we pay him from the state budget a higher pension, and that's basically a function that the High Council of Justice doesn't perform. That is why I once again call on my colleague in Parliament. In order for the High Council of Justice to work at least a little effectively, let us ensure that there is parity in this body of representatives of various political forces. I think that the President and the current authorities have enough of their representatives on a quota of both the Prosecutor's Office and the President's and higher education institutions. Let's do it.
ParlaMint-UA_2013-07-02-m1.u47	The faction of the Company of Ukraine, the national MP of Borita.
ParlaMint-UA_2013-07-02-m1.u48	Olga Borita, faction of the Ukrainian Company. Dear colleagues, we're choosing the High Council of Justice today and, you know, I'm very surprised by the words that surprised my colleagues from the so-called opposition. Once again, double standards have emerged today. Clearly, there will be candidates for these positions who work as judges. And here in the hall, we're getting huddled up for the candidates who didn't work for the judges. Another candidate. Even he didn’t show up in the hall and introduce himself, so I won’t call him a last name. So I would like to ask my colleagues to think carefully about who we should vote for today. The faction of the Company of Ukraine has been identified and voted in favour. Thank you.
ParlaMint-UA_2013-07-02-m1.u49	It's Vitaly Call's Faction. People's MP Rosenko.
ParlaMint-UA_2013-07-02-m1.u50	Paul Rosenco, Vitaly Caller's Faction. Please pass the word to Sergey Kaplin.
ParlaMint-UA_2013-07-02-m1.u51	Please, Sergey Capplin.
ParlaMint-UA_2013-07-02-m1.u52	Sergey Kaplin, Vitalia Klitschka Faction, Poltavska District, Poltava, Electoral District No.144. First, I would like to react immediately to the words of our political and ideological opponents and the opponents of the entire Ukrainian people of the Communist Party, the capitalist party of Ukraine. They say that as if we are making a mistake today, we are supporting candidates who are neither judges nor judges. But I want to tell you that there's hardly enough people in our country who are essentially judges. Because the most corrupt branch of power today is the judiciary. And it's long ago in the Ryder way, it's been captured by you and the Party of Regions. And it is you who appoint judges. You've turned the Ukrainian Court into a business, and Ukrainian judges are working on the method that the umbrella is working on today, using the cash method. They are assigned certain amounts that they should take to the mountain and then determine if this person can be. It turns out that a judge in Ukraine can be a person who does not serve the law, but serves your president today and should also be entrepreneurial. This is why there are so many young people in Ukrainian courts who are your relatives, your nephews, and so forth. What is the Supreme Council of Justice? This is the very organ and ordinary Ukrainian people need to know about it, which evaluates the judges. And that is why this body is now unpunished because it is appointed by authority. And that is why in the courts today hundreds of thousands of complaints against children of war, the disabled of all those who are not actually allowed to rule on the threshold of the court. The money that Azarov now owes to the Chernobylites, the Afghans, the children of war cannot repay. We have, we should have, let me finish, we should have opposition.
ParlaMint-UA_2013-07-02-m1.u53	Finish up.
ParlaMint-UA_2013-07-02-m1.u54	We must now have a decent representation, a parity representation, where the opposition will control these trials and there will be at least some of the first sprouts of justice and the judges will actually serve the people of Ukraine, the law and the ordinary Ukrainian oligarchs, not the President and his oligarchs.
ParlaMint-UA_2013-07-02-m1.u55	The Fatherland faction, National Deputy Sass.
ParlaMint-UA_2013-07-02-m1.u56	Thank you. Sergei Sass, Fatherland. Dear Vladimir Vasilovich, distinguished colleagues! I want to draw your attention to a few important circumstances, I think. First. Well, surely the opposition should be represented in such a high body of the constitutional body as the High Council of Justice, and so we will support our dignitaries and colleague of Knajek, and colleague of Vlasenko. I want to emphasize once again that Vlasenko is not in the room today for good reasons, he was present twice in the hall when the issue was to be considered. And so, I think that this is a person known not only in Ukraine, but also outside of Ukraine, and she deserves to be supported to be elected to this high office. Next. Vladimir Vasilovich, I would like to remind you of the decision of the Constitutional Court, if I am not betrayed by memory, it refers to the election of the Head of the Supreme Council, where the Constitutional Court, so-called, declared unconstitutional the entire institution of secret balloting in the Supreme Council of Ukraine. The main basis for recognition of an unconstitutional institution is 2 circumstances: the question of voting in the hall and the question of voting during plenary meetings. One question has already been settled with you because it has been decided not to take a break. Another question might be worth solving. And the last. Vladimir Vasilovich, I suppose my colleagues have reason to talk about the fact that twice-elected member of the High Council of Justice is not allowed. I mean the Minister of Justice of Ukraine. Therefore, it is impossible to choose him because this choice of his will be nothing more than a reconciliation of office. Therefore, it would be wise to reject the candidate’s vote before determining all of these circumstances, because it is necessary to reject the candidate’s right to vote.
ParlaMint-UA_2013-07-02-m1.u57	Finish up.
ParlaMint-UA_2013-07-02-m1.u58	. Because there is doubt as to the legitimacy of choosing him twice for this position. Thank you for your attention.
ParlaMint-UA_2013-07-02-m1.u59	Dear National Deputies, the discussion of candidates for the post of High Council of Justice has been completed. I give the floor to the head of the Counting Commission, Volodymyr Mikolayovich Olijnik.
ParlaMint-UA_2013-07-02-m1.u60	Dear Volodymyr Vasilovich, dear colleagues! The first meeting of the Counting Commission of the Supreme Council of Ukraine is necessary for the organization of a secret ballot on the appointment of members of the High Council of Justice. Members of the Counting Commission of the Supreme Council of Ukraine are requested to meet in 2 minutes in Hall No. 5, in the towers on the 3rd floor, above the session hall. Let me remind you of the composition of the Counting Commission of the Supreme Council of Ukraine on the seventh call: Olinik Vladimir Mikolaiovich is the head of the Committee of the Custody; Kanovnik Oleg Leonidovich is the deputy head of the Counting Commission; Gordijenko Sergei Volodymyrovich is the Secretary of the Counting Commission. Members of the Commission: Heleway Oleg Ivanovich, Hinka Jaroslav Jaroslavovich, Davidko Volodimir Mikolajovich, Zarubinsky Oleg Aleksandrovitch, Zubko Hennaday Grigorvovich, Zubčevsky Alexander Petrovich, Kalozny Vitaliy Anatoliovich, Kugel Alexander Volodymyrovna, Kupreyčik Irina Valerijovna, Final Vladimir Leontijovich, Pavlovsky Andrija Mihajlovich, Pinchuk Andrija Pavlovich, Skubashevski Stanislav Valerianovich, Stoyan Alexander Mikolajovich, Suhi Jaroslav Mihajlovich, Čechchev Mikhajilo Vasilovich, Čuhunnikov Vitalij Semenovich, Švaka Igor Aleksandrovović. I'd like the commission to meet you in the 5th.
ParlaMint-UA_2013-07-02-m1.u61	Dear National Deputies, the Counting Commission is working, and we're moving on, we're moving on, we're moving on to first-reading issues. A draft Act (No. 2540) amending article 18 of the Ukrainian Law on State Assistance to Families with Children (on State Social Assistance for Children with Disabilities) is being introduced. How will we consider this question? I'll bet you a reduced vote. Please vote. Short-term procedure. [[16:49:34]] For 169 Against 57, held – 2, not voted – 176. Decision taken. The factions. I invite you to report to Deputy Minister of Social Policy Viacheslav Mikolaiovich Colomiy. I won't. I invite the head of the Committee on Family, Youth Policy, Sport and Tourism, Zuk Mikol Vasilovich. Please.
ParlaMint-UA_2013-07-02-m1.u62	Thank you, Vladimir Vasilovich. Dear National Deputies, Mikola Jouk, 129th constituency of Mikolayov Mikolayivsk. Your consideration is the draft Ukrainian Law amending article 18 of the Ukrainian Law on State Aid to Families with Children, registered and submitted by the Cabinet of Ministers of Ukraine. The committee discussed a draft Ukrainian Law amending article 18 of the Ukrainian Law on State Aid with Children. The adoption of the bill will allow the conditions for the granting of State aid to orphans. Because in accordance with the Ukrainian Act on State Social Assistance to Disabled Children and Children, the State social assistance granted to a disabled child under the age of 18 is paid irrespective of the other forms of assistance provided to her. At the same time, according to article 18 of the Ukrainian Law on State Aid to Families with Children, State aid to orphans and children deprived of parental care is defined as the difference between two subsistence minimums for a child of appropriate age and the amount of retirement, elements, scholarships, state aid. So state aid amounts are calculated for children with disabilities, state social assistance. The bill is aimed at strengthening State support for children with disabilities from orphans and children who are deprived of parental care and care. The bill does not conflict with the Constitution of Ukraine. The implementation of the bill will require additional expenditure from the State budget of Ukraine. The main scientific and expert office came to the general conclusion that, as a result of the first reading, a bill could be adopted as a basis. The adoption of the bill is based on the support of the Committee on Pensioners, Veterans and Disabled Persons. The Committee on Family, Youth Policy, Sport, and Tourism decided to recommend it.
ParlaMint-UA_2013-07-02-m1.u63	Finish up, finish up.
ParlaMint-UA_2013-07-02-m1.u64	decided to recommend to the Supreme Council of Ukraine a draft Ukrainian Act amending article 18 of the Ukrainian Law on State Aid to Families with Children, to be adopted as a basis and as a whole. Please support the committee's decision. Thank you for your attention.
ParlaMint-UA_2013-07-02-m1.u65	Are they willing to participate? Please sign up for factions. Please sign up. Please, the "Fatherland" faction of the Tomenko People's Deputy.
ParlaMint-UA_2013-07-02-m1.u66	Dear colleagues, we support this bill, we believe that it does not solve the principle of the situation, but it does in part help this vulnerable category. But, Volodymyr Vasilovich, I have come out to make you respond to the situation that has been reported to the session hall and to the candidates for the National Council for Television and Radio. The Conciliation Council decided to consider the matter on Tuesday. We immediately assembled a committee, we invited 10 people, we discussed these candidates, and now it's kind of awkward, there's talk in the room that the Communists can't raise 226 votes for their candidate. So at least we have to apologize to the people who came from all over Ukraine, say that the Communists can't get 226 votes or let these candidates go to Nacrada or do something because it looks like a totally wild situation. Maybe if you don't have 226 votes, we shouldn't come to the meeting at all. You keep us informed, there's no 226 -- walk away, there's 226 -- get together. So either let us vote for the members of the Nakrad who are sitting here -- candidates, or apologize to the people, carry on, set up a specific day, and we will continue to make decisions.
ParlaMint-UA_2013-07-02-m1.u67	Dear People's Deputies, Mikola Tomenko, you've only given up your materials, they're not scattered, there's no sales to MPs, there's no documents. Let's have another sip. What do you think if you don't have the material on your hands? Well, let's have a sip. Freedom Union, National Deputy Pankevitch.
ParlaMint-UA_2013-07-02-m1.u68	Please give the word to Igor Yankev.
ParlaMint-UA_2013-07-02-m1.u69	Pass it on, please.
ParlaMint-UA_2013-07-02-m1.u70	Igor Yanków, the All-Ukrainian Freedom Union. The "Freedom" faction of the All-Ukrainian Union will support this bill. We understand that this little step is not the solution to the problems of children with disabilities. And this is a question that needs more consideration and work. As far as the problems of children with disabilities are concerned, it's social assistance for them. Because knowing the state in which we now have their whereabouts*** their position, their medical care, their question of recovery, there's a great deal of issues that need to be considered, raised questions and continued to address this issue in this direction. The "Freedom" faction of the All-Ukrainian Union will support the bill and recommend its adoption as a whole. Thank you.
ParlaMint-UA_2013-07-02-m1.u71	I'd like to see the Vitalia Call Faction, Rosenko.
ParlaMint-UA_2013-07-02-m1.u72	Paul Rosenco, Vitaly Caller's Faction. First. I would like to be absolutely supportive of Mikola Tomenka's speech and to believe that it is unacceptable to jump on a daily basis, Vladimir Vasilovich. We're missing a vote on the members of the Central Electoral Commission. There are people here who we all know and are ready to support as members of the National Council for Television and Radio. We skip the whole block of questions to the second reading, we skip something to the first reading. Even government officials today have not been able to arrive and see how the Supreme Council of Ukraine works. The second question. You reenacted the deputy minister of social policy. The report to the Supreme Council of Ukraine clearly states that the Ukrainian State Aid Bill for Families with Children is to be reported here by Minister of Social Policy Natalia Královska. For the fifth time, she has to report – the fifth time she is not in the meeting room of the Supreme Council of Ukraine. Well, I'm sorry, once on a mission, twice on a mission. But it seems to me that it simply ignores the Supreme Council of Ukraine and does not want to answer the questions that the Ukrainian National Deputies have, including activities on children with disabilities, including on the issues of that article: corruption in the Ministry of Social Policy on the nutrition of children with disabilities, on the nutrition of children with disabilities, when tenders are won in the Ministry of Firms that have no bearing on the nutrition of children with disabilities. Firms located in the city of Donetsk will win meals in the plains and in the Zitomir region. When the lining companies win, they don't do anything about feeding children with disabilities. That's why, of course, this bill is supported by the strike faction.
ParlaMint-UA_2013-07-02-m1.u73	Finish up.
ParlaMint-UA_2013-07-02-m1.u74	But we find it unacceptable that there is such a violation of the order of our sitting. And the second. We're still demanding that the Supreme Council of Ukraine have its main reporters on its rostrum. In this case, the Minister of the Cabinet. Or they may resign if they do not have time to report to the Supreme Council of Ukraine.
ParlaMint-UA_2013-07-02-m1.u75	Thank you. National deputy of the Jury, faction of the Company of Ukraine.
ParlaMint-UA_2013-07-02-m1.u76	The jury, the Communist faction. First. I would like to appeal and appeal to the first speaker today to draw attention to how communists come and work in Parliament and whether they can make an appearance. Well, first of all, you'll find out about the faction that today is not called "The Fatherland," it's "the Fatherland." And stop trading with your comrades and deceiving voters. Now for the bill. The Communist faction will support this bill because we believe that the best thing that a normal society has is to be directed to support children and young generations. However, I draw the attention of our citizens to the aspect and to the fact that, unfortunately, in 20 years, all conditions created by the Soviet authorities for normal realization, for the normal development of young people, children have been completely destroyed. For example, over the past 20 years alone, the number of places in health camps for children has decreased by 2.5 times. At the same time, the cost of one journey has increased tens of times. Today at the Young Guard in Odessa, which was created in the 1920s, just like Artek, the world-renowned health center, the cost of travel between 5,000 and 16,000 bracelets. Who today is this from ordinary Ukrainian families and our citizens? Nobody. And those who shout today will show us how to work today so that our young generation does not need anything. I would like to recall once again that it is the oligarchs and nationalists who are now in direct power in the three areas of Ukraine who are having a ball today, and young people simply have no prospect of smoking, dying and wanting to leave our country. The Communists won't let that happen. Thank you.
ParlaMint-UA_2013-07-02-m1.u77	The faction of the Party of the Regions, the People's Deputy of Bogoslovska. Please.
ParlaMint-UA_2013-07-02-m1.u78	Good afternoon, dear fellows! I want to encourage everyone in this room to return to common sense and basic human conscience. We are now considering raising the income of families with disabilities, children with disabilities or children with disabilities themselves. It is possible to transform even such a simple and understandable question into a political farce. Whatever it is, one is about his candidacy on another issue, why he wasn't included, why he wasn't distributed, and the other is about anything that concerns only them, and it doesn't apply at all to the question that we're considering right now. What moral right can we generally impose on society moral values when we are unable to do basic things in the hall? I urge everyone to leave this verbal fornication behind the walls of Parliament. I urge everyone to return to the function of parliament, to do legislation for the benefit of the people. And please, come on.
ParlaMint-UA_2013-07-02-m1.u79	Let me finish.
ParlaMint-UA_2013-07-02-m1.u80	And I ask you, I urge you now to put the question to the vote and vote on the increase in state payments and the receipt of children with disabilities. Thank you.
ParlaMint-UA_2013-07-02-m1.u81	Ladies and gentlemen, the discussion is over. That's why I'm asking the people's deputies to prepare themselves for the vote. People's deputies, please prepare for the vote. I'm voting on the draft Act (No. 2540) amending article 18 of the Ukrainian Law on State Aid to Families with Children (for State Social Assistance for Children with Disabilities) for adoption as a basis and as a whole. Please vote. [[17:04:05]] For 364 Against - 0, held - 0, did not vote - 41. Decision taken. The factions. Region Party - 179, Fatherland - 70, Vitalia Klicka - 30, Freedom - 31, Company - 30, non-fractional - 24. The honourable deputies who speak raise questions that I am in violation of the Rules. As far as CEC is concerned, there is no understanding among factions. So I have a statement from the two factions of the Fatherland and the "Freedom" union to take a break for, and we'll agree on that. So I'm going to call it a 20-minute break. And in 20 minutes at 5:30, we'll resume the session. Faction leaders, please enter the office of the Chief of Staff of the Supreme Council.
ParlaMint-UA_2013-07-02-m1.u82	Please make an announcement and invite national MPs. Ladies and gentlemen, I invite Arsenius Petrovich Yatsenuk, please.
ParlaMint-UA_2013-07-02-m1.u83	Dear Mr. Head, members of the Ukrainian Parliament! Today, the agenda has stood and stands in line with the question of the honesty and transparency of the elections of the President of Ukraine to be held in 2015, namely the issue of personal change in the composition of the Central Electoral Commission. The head of the Central Electoral Commission made a statement and the President of Ukraine filed a submission regarding the appointment of a new member of the Central Electoral Commission. I'm going to point out separately that this is a violation of the Ukrainian Law on the Central Electoral Commission, as it is made solely on the basis of the submission of the factions of the Supreme Council of Ukraine. For us, this issue should be overemphasized by the fact that there is a history of presidential elections in 2004, when they voted one by one and counted quite differently. That is why the opposition proposed a new format of basic electoral laws. That is, to create a temporary special commission of questions in the Supreme Council of Ukraine. First, the improvement of electoral legislation, and such a package should be incorporated into the Law on Local Elections, the Law on Elections to the Supreme Council of Ukraine, and the destruction of any contradictions and disagreements that exist in the Ukrainian Law on Elections of the President of Ukraine. Second, this is the new edition of the Ukrainian Law on the Central Election Commission. Our proposal that the CLTC, which will cease its activities in the following year, should be formed in parallel with both the opposition and the authority, and should be a real independent body. The following is true of outstanding issues in the Supreme Council of Ukraine regarding the holding of elections in five districts and the holding of the elections of the Kiev City Council and the Kiev City Council. We believe that these issues should also be considered by this temporary special commission and voted in September as harmonized bills by all five factions. We have not reached a conclusion on the agreement to create a temporary commission. But in order for the Ukrainian Parliament to work today, the question of electing and releasing a member of the Central Electoral Commission, as Parliament Speaker Vladimir Rybak put it, will not be considered on today's plenary day. That's why we expect a decision, first and foremost, and we also expect the decision of the President of Ukraine, which we have addressed to the Permanent Representative of the President of the Supreme Council of Ukraine. It should be a joint decision to form a single special commission with the participation of all factions. Thank you for your attention.
ParlaMint-UA_2013-07-02-m1.u84	Thank you. The word is given to the Head of the Counting Commission, Volodymyr Mikolaiovich Olijnik. I beg your attention, let's listen to the head of the Counting Commission.
ParlaMint-UA_2013-07-02-m1.u85	The Honourable Volodymira Vasilovich, a respected colleague, held a meeting of the Counting Commission of the Supreme Council of Ukraine. Of the 21 members of the Counting Commission, 20 were present at the meeting, i.e. the meeting of the commission is valid. The Committee of the Supreme Council of Ukraine approved this form of ballot for secret ballots at its meeting. The ballot is made on a coloured paper in the form of a rectangle with a black inscription. A secret ballot will be issued by the Counting Commission at the registration desks, 4 of which are where you traditionally register, only after the presentation of the national deputy of Ukraine. I would like to stress the presentation of a national representative’s certificate. Ladies and gentlemen, may I remind you that in accordance with the third part of article 39 of the Supreme Council of Ukraine's Rules, the vote takes place in a secret ballot booth, by placing on the ballot marks that testify to the will of the Ukrainian People's Deputy. We made a decision on the commission itself about the so-called non-traditional voting pattern when you come in, on the right-hand side you go in, where the registration tables, four tables, you get there through a signature in the information against your name, and you go to the booths, two of them stand, on the left-hand side, if you look, face to the voting places. And there's a secret ballot, and then there's the urns to vote on. There has been no doubt a small dispute here, for the Chief Legal Authority has stressed that there has been an appropriate explanation of the Constitutional Court since 2012 and 2003 that the vote should take place in the sitting room. And there was one suggestion, I'm informing you, not the booth, but the urn for the vote to be placed here next to the rostrum. She found no support from members of the commission. Five candidates were introduced in the secret ballot for the appointment of members of the High Council of Justice: Koleschenko Vladimir Mikolajovic, Kuzmishin Vitaly Mikolajovich, Lavrinovich Alexander Volodymyrovich, Vlasenko Sergey Volodymyrovich, Khenetzieki Oleg Igorovich. If you support a candidate, you mark any square opposite his name. If you do not support any candidates, make the box below. I also remind you that the Supreme Council of Ukraine appoints only three members of the High Council of Justice. Therefore, it is necessary to make no more than three marks, according to your will, otherwise the ballots will be considered invalid. Furthermore, according to article 8 of the Ukrainian Law on the Superior Council of Justice, two of the three members of the Supreme Council of Justice appointed by the Supreme Council of Ukraine should be judges. The receiving of the ballots by the Ukrainian National Deputies will take place, and we have consulted with the Head here, for your consideration, from 18 hours to 19 hours, the voting procedure, in accordance with the Rules, is at least one hour. After receiving the ballots and passing through the secret ballot booths, the national deputies should vote and throw ballots into the urns. That's it. If there are any questions, I am ready to answer them. Thank you for your attention.
ParlaMint-UA_2013-07-02-m1.u86	Any questions with the deputies? People's MP, please.
ParlaMint-UA_2013-07-02-m1.u87	Would you please tell me, against candidates who don't support, the box doesn't have a mark on it or something?
ParlaMint-UA_2013-07-02-m1.u88	We're talking about that any mark other than three she's already going to admit, giving grounds for declaring the ballot invalid. Not more than three points, I have three candidates against each of them. If there are only other markers, they will be declared invalid in the ballot. And one way, yes, if you support one, there's no question, if there's no question two, no questions, and if you support four or more, it's already a problem to admit. More specifically, the recognition of the ballot is not real. We only vote in favour of three candidates. The three candidatures are in the newsletter.
ParlaMint-UA_2013-07-02-m1.u89	Ladies and gentlemen, there is an explanation by the Constitutional Court that the vote should take place in the Supreme Council Hall. And there is a decision of the Counting Commission to hold a vote in the non-sessional room. What are some suggestions? Please register with the faction one minute at a time. What suggestions? Sign up for the faction. I beg you, the Fatherland faction, the native MP Burbak.
ParlaMint-UA_2013-07-02-m1.u90	Please pass the word to Mrs. Alexander Kugel.
ParlaMint-UA_2013-07-02-m1.u91	Please, Alexandra Kugel.
ParlaMint-UA_2013-07-02-m1.u92	Dear Vladimir Vasilovich! I would like to draw your attention to the fact that unfortunately, the head of the counting commission has misled you. We've been looking at this for an hour. The decision of the Constitutional Court states that the Supreme Council is to be decided in the Supreme Council, not in the Supreme Council Hall. And we'd like to ask, if you have a desire to lift this vote and declare it illegal, then surrender to what Mr. Olivenic is doing right now. But by the majority, the majority of the votes are decided that if the booths are to be voted on by secret ballots, let us not break up. We are prepared and ready to begin in five minutes.
ParlaMint-UA_2013-07-02-m1.u93	Please strike Vitalia Calla, National Deputy Novak.
ParlaMint-UA_2013-07-02-m1.u94	Please give the floor to Deputy Karpuntsov.
ParlaMint-UA_2013-07-02-m1.u95	Deputy Karpuntsov, please.
ParlaMint-UA_2013-07-02-m1.u96	Dear Vladimir Vasilovich, distinguished colleagues, wanted us to act on the law and the Constitution all the time, but unfortunately, we have a vote in the Bank, and then no one cares about it. In this case, there is a decision by the reckoning commission on the traditional way in which the Supreme Council is voting all the time, and I think we should go to the vote, vote directly in the booths. Thank you.
ParlaMint-UA_2013-07-02-m1.u97	Thank you. Party of regions, national MP of the Paraskow, please.
ParlaMint-UA_2013-07-02-m1.u98	Please give the floor to Olenik Vladimir Nikolaevich.
ParlaMint-UA_2013-07-02-m1.u99	Dear colleagues, this position is being adjusted with the Supreme Council's Chief Legal Authority and the question is that there are two decisions of the Constitutional Court. This July 11, 2012, issue 15, which refers to another decision of the Constitutional Court of October 14, 2003. It clearly states that the decision-making of the Supreme Council of Ukraine is carried out exclusively at its plenary sessions and constitutes a process of shaping and demonstrating the will of parliament. That is, only meetings can open a nameless secret ballot. And we're proposing the voting process itself, the completion of the case -- the drop boxes in the room are being held here and under the control of the press, so that there's no legal basis for considering such decisions to be illegal, unconstitutional. Thank you.
ParlaMint-UA_2013-07-02-m1.u100	I want to go to Alexandra Kugel. Come on, he's standing there. He'll explain everything to you. He's bringing it in. Come on, come on! Freedom Union, national deputy of Schweik.
ParlaMint-UA_2013-07-02-m1.u101	Society, decision taken. Igor Schwaika, faction of the All-Ukrainian Freedom Union. Decision adopted by the Counting Commission. The Counting Commission, in fact, technically clarified and approved the decision on which the registration table is fixed, who controls the process in the voting area, who is near the voting booths. And the Counting Commission has determined that the ballot boxes are right next to the ballot booths. I specifically wanted to point out that there may be one mark, two or three in the bulletin. Four markers make the ballot invalid. And, accordingly, today we are finalizing this vote after the national MPs have made their decision. Thank you.
ParlaMint-UA_2013-07-02-m1.u102	Ladies and gentlemen, there are two thoughts. I want to put to the vote the proposal of the Counting Commission. Is that gonna be okay? I ask you to confirm and vote in favour of the decision of the Counting Commission. People's deputies, please vote. [[17:58:40]] For 292 Against 0. We're holding on to seven. Not a vote – 101. Decision taken. The factions. Please.
ParlaMint-UA_2013-07-02-m1.u103	Dear national deputies, there is a request. We have to put the vote to half an hour, because we're not going to be able to make it at 18. At 6:30!
ParlaMint-UA_2013-07-02-m1.u104	Deputies! The reckoning commission is working, and we're still reviewing the laws. It's 5:30. At 6:30 a.m., there will be a one-hour recess for the vote. All right, go work. The break will be at 18 hours 30 minutes for the vote. We'll give you another word. Deputies! The draft Law - no, no, it works - draft Law (No. 2504) amending article 40 of the Ukrainian Law on Urban Activity Regulation (for the implementation of the National Technopolis Project). He will report to the first deputy head of the State Agency for Investments and National Project Management, Mikola Mikhailovich Steblinski. Please. Short-term procedure. Please vote in favour of the summary procedure. Please vote. [[18:00:43]] For-179 Against – 75, held – 8, did not vote – 136. Decision taken. Steblinsky Mikhailovich, the first deputy head of the State Investment and National Project Management Agency. Please. You have two minutes.
ParlaMint-UA_2013-07-02-m1.u105	Thank you. Dear Mr. Head of the Supreme Council! Dear National Deputies! The bill submitted for your consideration proposes to amend part four of article 40 of the Ukrainian Law on Urban Control, according to which there is no customer involvement in the development of the infrastructure in the area of construction and engineering infrastructure in the course of the implementation of the National Technology Project, the creation of the infrastructure for innovation and the high technology of its components. As approved by the Cabinet of Ministers of October 31st of last year, number 1014 The previous technical and economic justification of the National Technopolis project was developed by Ernst & Young and contains a concept that, inter alia, provides that the material and technical infrastructure of technopolis should include elements of basic manufacturing, education and social purpose. At the same time, sharing in the development of the infrastructure of the site will increase the cost of the components of the National Technopolis project and will not contribute to the creation of conditions for investor involvement. So the state, on the one hand, is going to give the project State support, and on the other hand, it's going to reduce its impact through the chow mechanism. In view of the above, please support the bill. Thank you for your attention.
ParlaMint-UA_2013-07-02-m1.u106	Thank you. Please, head of the Committee on Construction, Construction and Housing and Regional Policy, Spiridon Pavlovich Kilinkarov. Please.
ParlaMint-UA_2013-07-02-m1.u107	Dear Volodymyr Vasilovich, dear colleagues! The committee considered a bill amending article 40 of the Ukrainian Law on Urban Activity Regulation (for the implementation of the National Technopolis Project) (Registration No. 2504). The bill proposes that the government amend the bill, according to which no buyers are involved in the development of the infrastructure in the area of construction of individual objects and engineering and transport infrastructure in the course of the implementation of the National Technopolis Project. The Technopolis project is aimed at achieving the strategic goal of creating innovation infrastructure and high technology in the state. The project is funded by private investors and/or public enterprises. The need to pay off the rations in this case will obviously lead to an increase in the implementation of the project. Therefore, the Cabinet of Ministers’ proposals can be accepted. The main scientific and expert office also believes that the bill can be adopted as a basis. In view of the above, the committee proposes a bill (registration number 2504) on the basis of the first reading to be adopted as a basis. Thank you.
ParlaMint-UA_2013-07-02-m1.u108	Have a seat. Thank you. Please register with the faction. Well, let's have a look. The Fatherland faction, National Deputy Bondarenko.
ParlaMint-UA_2013-07-02-m1.u109	Vladimir Bondarenko, united opposition to the Fatherland. Dear friends, in a civilized world, in many countries that have gone from a semicolonial state to a high technical level, particularly in South East Asia, Korea, China, the technopolises have played an important role because they have created innovations, they have made huge investments, they have created various projects that have become national huge projects. Unfortunately, so far we have no example of technopolis serving in this matter, rather than corruption, through all kinds of technology parks, technopolises, all kinds of non-acquisitional goods, and so forth. So I'd like to look at this project, and we'll be protected from another corruption nest that was created in Ukraine in an empty space. And obviously in discussing this project, you have to be afraid of creating such places. They tend to attract a variety of apherists, ski coaches, or other businesses, who then export huge amounts of money to Cyprus and end up with a scandal, a corruption scheme, or a criminal case. That is why we can support this question. But if we are certain that it will benefit Ukraine, not individual parts. Thank you.
ParlaMint-UA_2013-07-02-m1.u110	Thank you. The Freedom Union. People's MP Melnik.
ParlaMint-UA_2013-07-02-m1.u111	Please pass the word to Ruslan Marcinkov.
ParlaMint-UA_2013-07-02-m1.u112	Please, Martinkyv.
ParlaMint-UA_2013-07-02-m1.u113	Ruslan Marcinkov, All-Ukrainian Freedom Union. The Technopolis bill is a typical lobbyist project, and I think it's a lot of talk about innovation about banal minimization of business costs, more at the expense of local communities. By the way, government officials and project agencies have never even succeeded in meeting the Main Committee on Urban Affairs to conduct an elementary presentation of the Technopolis project. Not to mention the approved business plan that will show how useful and how long it will be for the Ukrainians, not the builders themselves. But I found a business plan, by the way, in Kiev, where one of Bionic Hill's projects is being implemented, where it's planned, interestingly, to build the first line by 2015 is not infrastructure projects at all, but 230,000 square meters of housing. That's what we're going to fire under this project. Therefore, the distinguished Party of Regions, do not go into the pockets of the local authorities. Because today there are sufficient legal grounds for the local organs of Lvov, Donetska, Harkov, Kiev, Dnipropetrovska, where the bill will be implemented, to release the fuel from the building of the children's gardens under the sports grounds. In fact, this bill is called upon to avoid the payment of rations. Instead of monitoring the local budgets today, you do not support the Freedom Bill to amend article 39.39.1 on urban regulation, which would allow the community to receive the full cost of building kindergartens, hospitals. You're stretching this lobbying law today. So the Freedoms faction will not vote in favour of the bill.
ParlaMint-UA_2013-07-02-m1.u114	The faction of the Party of the Regions, the national deputy of Žuravsky.
ParlaMint-UA_2013-07-02-m1.u115	Dear colleagues, if we are to pave the way for civilized education, volumes should take advantage of the experience that exists in the United States in the European Union. There are technopolises everywhere. There are no technopolises in Ukraine. The component of technopolis is business, educational institutions, public institutions, it's an innovative way to develop. An investor goes to technopolis. It's living expenses. So our faction will support this vital bill. Thank you.
ParlaMint-UA_2013-07-02-m1.u116	People's Deputy Capplin.
ParlaMint-UA_2013-07-02-m1.u117	People's Deputy Kaplin, Vitalia Klitschka Faction, Poltava District, 144 constituency, Poltava City. You know, I'd like this thing that we're talking about today to be presented by the author of Kaskov himself. And I would tell him here an anecdote that would be appropriate to this situation when the Ukrainian went to buy himself a 5,000 bracelet massage and realized that he was being fooled after hearing the words "rails-rails, sheets-beds." This is the same idea that the government is about to come up with. What is this technopolis? In fact, the Party of the Regions receives an appeal-free right in a particular place. In general, this form of contributions to infrastructure at the local level, which is usually determined by the mayor of the city up to 10 percent, needs to be eliminated, it needs to be radically reformed because it is absolutely corrupt. We must do absolutely everything today to remove this corrupt norm from the current Ukrainian legislation. Likewise, I would like to say that the very idea that this institution exists with regard to the implementation of national projects has already disgraced itself with the corruption scandals that the whole world has learned about. Today, Ukraine is discredited from the point of view of the implementation of such major projects and the direct activity of the executive of this agency, Kaskov. I'm convinced that we shouldn't support this bill, it's criminal, it's corrupt, it's an attack on the interests of free enterprise in Ukraine, and we have to do everything we can to destroy today's practice when at the local level it's actually a medium and small business. When city mayors become governors and coordinators of the major corruption chains of the Party of Regions and Communists that overlap these schemes and that actually set even standards, corrupt norms.
ParlaMint-UA_2013-07-02-m1.u118	Ladies and gentlemen, the discussion is over. People's deputies, please prepare for the vote. I'll bet you a vote. But do not run, sit in your seats, and vote. I am voting on draft Act No. 2504 amending article 40 of the Ukrainian Law on the Settlement of Urban Activities (for the implementation of the National Project Technopolis) for adoption as a basis. Please vote. [[6:12:41]] For 251 Against 51, held - 13, not 81. Decision taken. The factions. Region Party - 184, Fatherland - 22, Strike - 0, Freedom - 0, Company - 30, Non-faction - 15. A draft Act (No. 2234) is under consideration to amend the Ukrainian Act on the Judiciary and Status of Judges on the determination of the maximum number of employees of the Ukrainian State Judicial Administration. How do we view it? A short procedure is proposed. Please vote. [[6:13:39]] For-188. Against 72, held - 7, not voted - 133. Decision taken. The factions. First Deputy Justice Minister Ivanovna Jemelyanov is invited to report.
ParlaMint-UA_2013-07-02-m1.u119	Mr. Volodymira Vasilovich, distinguished Ukrainian national deputies, is presented for your consideration with a draft Act amending the Ukrainian Act on the Judiciary and Status of Judges. It is aimed at regulating at the legislative level the question of determining the marginality of the state’s judicial administration. Today, under the Ukrainian Act on the Judiciary and Status of Judges, the Council of Judges of Ukraine has been given appropriate powers, such as the appointment of heads and deputies of the Head of the State Judicial Administration and the Council of Judges of Ukraine approves the position of the State Court of Administration. In this connection, it is proposed to amend the Ukrainian Act on the Judiciary and Status of Judges to empower the Council of Judges of Ukraine to determine the maximum number of employees of the State Judicial Administration and its territorial bodies. And these territorial organs are formed in every area and in the Autonomous Republic of Crimea. Ask him to support the bill and accept it in the first reading. Thank you.
ParlaMint-UA_2013-07-02-m1.u120	Thank you. Have a seat. I request a report from the Vice-President of the Committee on the Rule of Law and Justice, Mr. Dmitry Yuriovich Sphenov. Please.
ParlaMint-UA_2013-07-02-m1.u121	Dear Vladimir Vasilevich, this is not the first time I've asked you to call my correct name, my name is Sphenov.
ParlaMint-UA_2013-07-02-m1.u122	I'll remember the third time.
ParlaMint-UA_2013-07-02-m1.u123	Thank you. The honourable chairman, honourable colleagues, this bill was discussed at a meeting of the Supreme Council of Ukraine Committee on the Rule of Law and Justice on 20 March this year and supported by a committee. It proposes to strengthen the powers determined by the border number of officials of the Ukrainian State Judicial Administration and its territorial authorities by the Ukrainian Council of Judges on the basis of the submission of the head of administration. The bill is supported by the National Court of Justice, the Council of Judges of Ukraine, the Ministry of Justice of Ukraine. The Supreme Council of Ukraine legislature noted that the bill would serve as an additional guarantee of the independence of the judiciary and the independence of the courts. The main scientific and expert office, although it has made a point, generally does not deny that the Cabinet of Ministers of Ukraine does not have the authority to regulate the number of organs that do not belong to the system of executive authorities. Taking into account a small amount of legislation, the committee decided to recommend that the Supreme Council of Ukraine accept it as a basis and generally as a law. Please support the committee's decision. Thank you for your attention.
ParlaMint-UA_2013-07-02-m1.u124	The report of the People’s Deputy, Sphenov, has been completed. Do you want to talk about it? I would like to vote on the draft Act (No. 2234) amending the Law on the Judiciary and Status of Judges on the determination of the maximum number of employees of the State Judicial Administration of Ukraine for adoption as a basis and as a whole. Please vote. [[18:17:26]] For 308. Against – 2, held – 6, did not vote – 83. Decision taken. The factions. A draft Act (No. 2024) is under consideration to amend article 4 of the Ukrainian Law on State and Municipal Property Rental (for hydrotechnological installations of fish farms). I would like to vote in favour of the summary procedure. [[18:18:18]] For-182 Against - 64, held - 6, not voted - 147. Decision taken. The factions. The first deputy is invited to report to Minister of Agriculture and Food Ivan Yuriovich Bisuk. Please.
ParlaMint-UA_2013-07-02-m1.u125	Dear Vladimir Vasilovich! Dear National Deputies! Ukraine's draft Law on Amendments to Article 4 of the Ukrainian Law on State and Municipal Rental is designed to improve the efficiency of the use of state property by removing excessive restrictions on the transfer to the rental of public property. The proposed draft Law deals with the use of hydrotechnological installations for fish-based technology, which are owned by the State, including ponds, ponds, fishing facilities and associated machinery and equipment, other assets that were not included at the time of privatization in the farm funds created in the process of privatization on the basis of fisheries enterprises. The problem of leases in the use of hydrotechnological equipment is related to the specificity and specificity of their use, seasonality, and the inseparable circulation of local and river waters. The specified hydrotechnical facilities are used only for fishery purposes. The implementation of the project will ensure that conditions are conducive to the development of the state’s fisheries complex. Please support the prescribed bill on the basis and, taking into account the Committee's conclusion, as a whole, as a law. Thank you.
ParlaMint-UA_2013-07-02-m1.u126	Thank you. Have a seat. The head of the Economic Policy Committee, Andrew Volodymyrovich Ivanchuk, is invited to participate in the report. Ivanchuk Andry Volodymyrovich. Yeah, well, he got the wrong speech. That's not the report you took? 2024.
ParlaMint-UA_2013-07-02-m1.u127	Dear Head, distinguished national MPs! The Economic Policy Committee considered the bill on April 13 at its meeting and decided to recommend that the Supreme Council vote in favour of the bill on the basis of the first reading.
ParlaMint-UA_2013-07-02-m1.u128	Thank you. Do you want to talk about it? One wants to talk, two. Please sign up for factions. Have a seat. Please, the Freedom Union, the People's Deputy of Schneitzki.
ParlaMint-UA_2013-07-02-m1.u129	Please give the floor to the national MP, Michael Golovk.
ParlaMint-UA_2013-07-02-m1.u130	Pass it on, please.
ParlaMint-UA_2013-07-02-m1.u131	Mikhail Golovko, the All-Ukrainian Freedom Union. Ladies and gentlemen, there are a number of contradictions in this bill, because under the understanding of the hydrodevice, we now understand what an important function they have for the population of Ukraine. Because if such a hydrosupply reaches a bad tenant, it is appropriate to harm society, such as drying up the same waters, destroying fish farms, and so forth. So, accordingly, without the rules of the law on the responsibility of renting such hydrotechnological facilities, we will not be supported. And that's why we're going to hold on to this bill. Thank you.
ParlaMint-UA_2013-07-02-m1.u132	Party of regions, National Deputy Feldman. National MP Feldman. Please, Gregory Smythech, National MP.
ParlaMint-UA_2013-07-02-m1.u133	Dear Vladimir Vasilovich, distinguished national MPs, several literal figures. Ukraine out of a million hectares of water space, which is capable of producing the most important food for our population, which is extremely scarce, and we are estimated to be undernourished, a large proportion of our population, fish products, uses only over 30,000. Why is this happening? Because excessive regulation of this issue is an overly complex issue involving renting one or another by water. So the state and the government are following this program in a series of ways. First: A state-wide Aquaculture Development Programme was created in 2011. Last year we passed a law that regulates aquaculture. And now it's a series of questions to simplify this procedure. Think about it, Ukraine can produce a lot of fish and export, but it does not use it. Instead, every year we import more than 500,000 tons of fish. Including Vietnam, China, and European countries. And another number. China is now producing more than 60 percent of the world’s aquaculture. And if it's in numbers, the name is more than 40 million tons. Ukraine produces, if I'm not mistaken, a total of 5,000,654 tons. More than 40 million tons and having the possibilities of water pipes is 5. And another question that will stand before the government and before us. With regard to the state budgeted programme, we do not support this sector at all, and European countries, especially European countries, are actively stimulating and channeling funds to support the creation of new economies. Please support, this is a huge program for our population. Thank you.
ParlaMint-UA_2013-07-02-m1.u134	Unification. The Vitalia Klitschka faction, National Deputy Rosenko.
ParlaMint-UA_2013-07-02-m1.u135	Please pass the word to Sergey Kaplin.
ParlaMint-UA_2013-07-02-m1.u136	Please, Sergey Kaplin.
ParlaMint-UA_2013-07-02-m1.u137	Sergey Kaplin, Vitalia Klitschka Faction, Poltavsk district, Poltava, electoral district 144. Our political power will uphold this law because it is the first step in settling this area today. But at the same time, we need to note that we have extremely serious problems both with the attention of the Cabinet of Ministers to this subject, and we have extremely serious corruption and, in fact, with examples of raiding, when a company called the Skriba, which is actually the owner of these hydrotechnical buildings, is carrying out a variety of corruption raids. Yes, there's a whole series of similar precedents in Poltava County, according to my information. We must ensure the maximum development of our initiative today. I am convinced that this is a positive vote. And I assure you that the strike faction and the strike political party will do absolutely everything we can to ensure that when they take all the factories from a Ukrainian citizen, they try to take the land away from him so they can at least leave the fish. Because I'll tell you, a lot of Ukrainian villages, whole territories, the vast majority of peasants today survive just because they fish and cancer and live out of it. Because you took the state from them, you took jobs from them, and they turned into people who barely survived thousands of years ago by fishing and fishing. They destroyed the country, now you want to take away the fishing of Ukrainians! We won't let that happen! We're going to fight for a simple Ukrainian and do absolutely everything we can to get Azarov's hands off the fish farm of Ukraine. We'll make sure there's no corruption on the water!
ParlaMint-UA_2013-07-02-m1.u138	The Fatherland faction, National Deputy Ivan Kirilenko.
ParlaMint-UA_2013-07-02-m1.u139	Dear Head, honourable fellow MPs, honourable voters! We had a lot of controversy about this law. And the first decision of the faction was not to support. And indeed, the argument that was made today by colleagues from different factions shows that it is an unforgivable law. Seems like simple things, but it's not a simple law. And yet we are finally making a decision -- in the first reading, to support this bill. And consider the arguments that Smytheuch said. It is, indeed, yes, if you look at the healthy diet of our people, especially our children. In the fields of 30 million hectares, we have learned to do something. Some have learned, and this should be given to our farmers. But what is being done today is evidence of the fact that we in this room are adopting the law to make substantial changes to the Milk and Milk Act, in turn meat and meat products. After all, I'm sorry, older generation, we're already drunk, kids are pathetic. Fish production is the path to healthy nutrition. And the examples that have been cited in other countries, especially China, are a powerful witness. We prefer the development of fisheries in this respect. You can't let a mirror rent one, the ground underneath it -- the second, the hydrotechnological buildings -- the third. The swan, the cancer, and the hammer are in place. We will make substantial suggestions to this law, and on the first reading, the faction will support it. Thank you.
ParlaMint-UA_2013-07-02-m1.u140	Thank you. The discussion is over. People's deputies, please prepare for the vote. I'm betting on a draft bill (No. 2024) amending article 4 of the Ukrainian Law on State and Municipal Property Rental (for hydrotechnological facilities of fisheries technology) to be adopted as a basis. Please vote. [[18:29:36]] For 280 Against 3, held – 37, not voted – 74. Decision taken. The factions. It's under review. Draft law, No. 2695, is under consideration. It's a reckoning commission. The reckoning commission will ask us to do it. Draft Act (No. 2695) amending the Law on State and Municipal Property Rental (on Rent Relations and Prevention of Damage and Loss of Rental Property). How do we view it? Anyone for a reduced procedure, please vote. [[18:30:54]] For 178. Against 72, held – 8, not a vote – 139. Decision taken. The factions. The head of the State Property Fund, Alexander Volodymyrovich Rybchenko, is invited to report. Please. Please, you have two minutes.
ParlaMint-UA_2013-07-02-m1.u141	Dear Vladimir Vasilovich, distinguished national deputies! Your opinion is proposed by the Ukrainian Act amending the Ukrainian Law on Renting State and Municipal Property, developed by the Ukrainian State Property Fund, in accordance with the decision of the Special Supervisory Commission on Privatisation of the Supreme Council in 2011 on the effectiveness of the use of state property, of integrated property complexes transferred to the lease. The project is aimed at improving the efficiency of rental relationships, increasing financial discipline, and protecting the property interests of government and municipal owners of leased property. The objective of the project is to make changes to the State and Municipal Property Rental Act. In particular, the statutory obligation of the tenant to compensate for the loss of leased property, to protect the property interests of the owner of the lease, by establishing the impossibility of hiring a lease. The tenant’s inability to deal with property that leads to a change in the form of property without the renter’s consent. In order to ensure that the rent can be restored by the recipient both before and after the return of the property, it is possible to rent the rental property with a lease on its behalf. Appropriately, the risk of accidental death or damage to the leaser’s object is relied on by a balancemaker. Thank you.
ParlaMint-UA_2013-07-02-m1.u142	Have a seat. Thank you. POB: Head of Economic Policy Committee Andry Volodymyrovich Ivanchuk Act 2695. Please.
ParlaMint-UA_2013-07-02-m1.u143	Dear Head, distinguished national MPs! The committee considered the bill amending the Ukrainian Law on Renting State Property and Municipal Property. The bill deals with four clusters of issues. The committee has made a positive decision on the adoption of the bill as a basis, but there are some observations on the stations of methodology and standardization that cannot be covered by the bill, and members of the committee recommend that it be excluded from the second reading. Therefore, the committee decided to support the bill in its first reading as a basis. Thank you.
ParlaMint-UA_2013-07-02-m1.u144	Can we put the vote before the vote and go to the vote? May I? No, it's not. Please sign up for the discussion. Please, Freedom Union, National MP Mohnik.
ParlaMint-UA_2013-07-02-m1.u145	Please give the floor to the national deputy Head of Michael.
ParlaMint-UA_2013-07-02-m1.u146	Pass it on, please.
ParlaMint-UA_2013-07-02-m1.u147	Mikhail Golovko, the All-Ukrainian Freedom Union. Honourable MPs, it is indeed a bill that has, on the one hand, and positive features in giving the tenant a responsibility to the State of the obligation to properly use and pay for the damage. But, at the same time, there are a number of comments that have been made to us on the committee, and, of course, if they are offered, maybe in the second reading, our faction will support it. But there's a major problem that's out of the question, it's about the problems of real estate rentals -- the recognition of the value of rent. Since such objects are usually leased at ridiculous prices, they are then transferred to the subordinary, and the State suffers considerable damage. Accordingly, there is considerable damage to the State's entrepreneurs and we propose that if our proposals are included in the next bill, then we can support the bill. Thus, we will not vote in the first reading. Thank you.
ParlaMint-UA_2013-07-02-m1.u148	Thank you. Party of regions, National Deputy Denisenko.
ParlaMint-UA_2013-07-02-m1.u149	Anatoly Denisenko, 173 constituency, Kharkiv City, faction of the Party of the Regions. The bill clearly enhances the financial discipline of state-owned tenants. I believe that such a way of securing obligations as a post - project assignment should be an effective mechanism for timely payment by the renter of adequate payments. It is known that existing legislation has previously lifted the ban on the privatization of property of enterprises working in the field of standardization. And there was a situation that you could privatize, and you couldn't rent. And we are grateful to the Holding Foundation for the fact that such a rule removes the lease on the property of such enterprises and has appeared in Parliament. I propose to support this bill.
ParlaMint-UA_2013-07-02-m1.u150	Thank you. The Fatherland faction, National Deputy Tomenko.
ParlaMint-UA_2013-07-02-m1.u151	Please pass the word to Yuri Odarchenk, who will give a warning about the matter.
ParlaMint-UA_2013-07-02-m1.u152	Yuri Odarchenko, please give me a warning.
ParlaMint-UA_2013-07-02-m1.u153	Yuri Odarchenko, Fatherland faction. Dear colleagues, this bill has continued the shameful practice of this Cabinet of Ministers trying to push, in the form of one bill, a completely different one. I think everyone remembers a sad bill on State guarantees for enforcement of court decisions that virtually invalidated all social guarantees and benefits. I think the government needs to stop this thimble game with the Supreme Council. Paragraph 1, paragraph 1, of this bill provides for exclusions from the list of objects that are not to be leased, including rentals and subsequent purchases of property of enterprises operating in the field of metrology, certification and standardization. So, dear colleagues, we're opening the way for the transfer to the private hands of a country as important as certification. In doing so, the whole of the other bill is aimed at completely different questions of determining the liability for the loss of leased property. I think we should tell the government firmly "no" to all his attempts to falsify and reject this bill. If the government wants to fight for the preservation of the property transferred to the lease, let us prepare a normal bill for the next session on the issue, and we will consider it. I propose not to vote in favour of this bill, which is aimed at looting the property that is necessary to maintain the state's sphere of importance as certification.
ParlaMint-UA_2013-07-02-m1.u154	People's Deputy Kaplin, Vitaly Klicka faction. Please.
ParlaMint-UA_2013-07-02-m1.u155	People's Deputy Kaplin, Vitaly Klitschka Faction, Poltava, electoral district 144. In my opinion, in our faction, we have to maintain a trend of this, of course, to take at least one step to improve the situation in some areas of the Ukrainian economy. Of course, we can appeal to the Party of Regions, to the Communists, to those who call themselves self-imposed dignitaries and independent MPs, and are actually profiled members of the Party of Regions and Communists. We can appeal and say that we're going to adopt a law tomorrow or so, but so far, the majority of the democratic forces in Parliament are not, even though it's not actually in the Communist Party. But there are simple people around us, and they have the right to a stable relationship in economic life. So our political power will support this first step to resolve this area. And the second. It is so wonderful that so far most of us have not lost the ability to communicate with our constituents. And so I got a call from my elector Anastasia Ivanovna from Poltava Gardens-2, and he asked me very much to hand over to a woman who didn't have the career of President of Ukraine's press secretary for, as it were, the benefits that seem to be in the U.S.A. and there's no sort of party of regions that they're disposing of themselves. So she wanted to tell you that the entire Ukrainian people know very well that, apart from the parliamentary benefits that you refuse, there are other benefits, the benefits of secret, subsoils, the benefits of driving around with eyelashes, the benefits of hiring their children by judges and prosecutors, the benefits of dedicating the budget, the benefits of a mandate for corruption, the looting of the Ukrainian people, the money they earn with their corn. And of course, you'll never give up these benefits, and you can say so brightly, so beautifully, that you're giving up your money, because it's a penny, and there's a billion.
ParlaMint-UA_2013-07-02-m1.u156	Ladies and gentlemen, the discussion is over. That's why I'm voting. Attention, national deputies, prepare for the vote. I'm betting on a draft Act (No. 2695) amending the Ukrainian Act on State and Municipal Property Rental (for rent relations and prevention of damage and loss of property) to be accepted as a basis. Please vote. [[18:41:57]] For 253 Against – 2, held – 34, did not vote – 97. Decision taken. The factions. Region Party - 168, Fatherland - 15, Vitalia Klicka - 24, Freedom - 0, Company - 30, non-fractional - 17. Ladies and gentlemen, the vote is hereby announced. One hour. At 7:40, we'll continue the session.
ParlaMint-UA_2013-07-02-m1.u157	Please invite the deputies to the session room. The reckoning committee's not ready yet, not ready yet. Then we continue our consideration of the questions. The Act (2499) on amending certain Ukrainian legislation on parking rules for vehicles and establishing responsibility for parking rules is under consideration. There is a suggestion to consider the simplified procedure. People's deputies, please vote. Please vote for the people's deputies. [[19:44:56]] For-157. Against 51, holding – 3, not voting – 146. Decision taken. Factions: Regional Party - 153, Parenthood - zero, Vitaly Klicka - zero, Freedom - zero, Company - zero, non-fractional - four. I invite you to report to the Deputy Minister for Regional Development, Construction and Housing, Andry Leonidovich Belowsov. You have two minutes.
ParlaMint-UA_2013-07-02-m1.u158	Dear Vladimir Vasilovich, distinguished national deputies! Your view is on the draft Ukrainian Law amending some Ukrainian legislation on parking rules for vehicles and establishing responsibility for parking rules for vehicles designed to eliminate gaps in the legislation on regulating the organization's relations and the operation of parking facilities. The adoption of the bill will help to resolve relevant and urgent issues in the area of parking, such as the establishment of local self - government authorities to monitor the implementation of parking rules, the obligation of local authorities to equip and maintain the required number of parking spaces within cities, and so on. The draft law provides for a clear delimitation of the authority of local self-government, the authority of the State Inspectorate to monitor the implementation of the parking rules in the area of equipment and the operation of the parking facilities. In addition, the bill amends article 18 of the Ukrainian Road Traffic Act, according to which the list of sections of the streets and roads of cities and other locations is supplemented by parking lots. And finally. The need for legislation is due to the absence of an administrative mechanism in Ukraine for parking violations. The bill proposed for consideration today sets out the grounds and procedure for bringing administrative responsibility as officials - operators for violating the requirements of the Rules for parking and parking facilities, including parking spaces and exit terminals, and for parking spaces and parking costs.
ParlaMint-UA_2013-07-02-m1.u159	Finish up.
ParlaMint-UA_2013-07-02-m1.u160	Please support the adoption on the basis of the draft Ukrainian Law amending some Ukrainian legislation on parking rules for vehicles and establishing the responsibility for violating the rules of parking for vehicles. Thank you for your attention.
ParlaMint-UA_2013-07-02-m1.u161	Thank you. Have a seat. The account. Secretary of the Committee for the Legislative Protection of Vitaly Stanislavovich Žuravski. Two minutes, please.
ParlaMint-UA_2013-07-02-m1.u162	Dear Volodymira Vasilovich, a respected colleague, is known to know that, on the one hand, drivers of vehicles do not want to pay money for parking, and on the other hand, owners of parking lots do not want to install parking machines because they work in the shadows and hide from taxes. That's why the government has proposed a number of amendments to the Ukrainian Code of Administrative Offences, Ukrainian Road Traffic and Local Self-Government in Ukraine and Roads. The author of the legislative initiative proposes to fine both drivers who refuse to pay for parking and owners of parking spaces who do not install parking machines. In addition, the draft law gives the local authorities the exclusive right to determine the number of parking lots, their location, and the cost of services. This will be an additional source of funds to local budgets. Our committee supported this initiative 100 percent. And I have a few seconds left. I would like to welcome Vladimir Vasilovich from our faction. His granddaughter was born, she was called Faith. Give her God’s faith, hope, and love, and all the best!
ParlaMint-UA_2013-07-02-m1.u163	Please register with the faction of the National Deputies. Party of regions, National MP Smithukh.
ParlaMint-UA_2013-07-02-m1.u164	Dear Vladimir Vasilovich! Dear National Deputies! Our faction will support this important bill, because, in principle, the state has to bring order in this area, which is very important for security, including in cities where it is overcrowded to this day by means of mass movement. But I think that's the solution. The concept of this law is a partial solution to this problem. I'm sure that in the big cities of Kiev, Odessa and other ancient cities of Lviv, and beyond, without establishing underground modern parking, we can't solve this problem. And unfortunately, what's happening in Kiev today is when cars are parked, including in Krestatika on the central green part of the lawn. It's in the middle. The central streets tell us that people are in a very uncomfortable state where there are not enough of them. That's one problem. The second question. The second reading should be made clear by the local authorities so that those who operate these areas, who are reserved for parking, are in good condition. This is what happens to us. In the summer the car could not be parked, there is a parking car, and there is someone to raise money. And when it snows or rains, we never see anyone in this parking lot. And this responsibility should be strengthened, in my opinion. Because it's not just collecting money, it's also providing, in my opinion, services that would be responsible for people paying those taxes. And as I go back to the important question, I think that big cities need to pay attention and comprehensively, or maybe even these costs, to direct in order to set up modern underground parking spaces. If we address this question, if these places are to be built, we will be in time.
ParlaMint-UA_2013-07-02-m1.u165	Thank you. The Fatherland faction, National Deputy Sergei Teryohin. Please.
ParlaMint-UA_2013-07-02-m1.u166	Good evening! I also congratulate you as grandfather, Vladimir Vasilovich. But let's look at the essence of this law. Banning again, fines again. But please tell me you can fine when you can park a car in a place that doesn't need a fine. Is there enough parking in Kiev, Donetsk, or Lviv to park cars? It's a rhetorical question, isn't it? And that's why, you know, before you increase any car driver's fines and what's proposed by law, draft legislation to increase the parking tickets of those who are going to impose? The police, which, I'm sorry, is hiding this business? It's pointless. That's it. We can adopt this bill in the first reading. On the second reading, however, it is essential to establish the responsibility of local authorities to provide parking spaces sufficient for the number of cars to drive there. One more thing. Once someone in this room must have been abroad, and at one time you probably knew that if there was no workday, if there was no workday, then, or at night, there would be no parking fees. Sadly, this law does not say anything about it either. So let's say, as an experiment, in the first reading, let's adopt this law. But in the second reading he will be.
ParlaMint-UA_2013-07-02-m1.u167	Thank you. Freedom Union, Sabia People's Deputy.
ParlaMint-UA_2013-07-02-m1.u168	Please pass the word to Andrey Mishchenk.
ParlaMint-UA_2013-07-02-m1.u169	Please hand over Mishchenko to the People's Deputy.
ParlaMint-UA_2013-07-02-m1.u170	Andrew Mishchenko, All-Ukrainian Freedom Union. Dear colleagues, there is really no responsibility at the legislative level for the unsanctioned placement of a car on the parking lot. In addition, there is a need to clearly distinguish between the performance of these parking rules in the road safety section and the equipment and the operation of parking areas. But we have one point: this bill does not take into account the interests of socially vulnerable groups. In addition, it should not be forgotten that often the biggest violators in public parking areas are drivers of automobiles with elite government numbers and no one is punishing them. As a result, this will cause other citizens to commit violations. The "Freedom" faction of the All-Ukrainian Union will be maintained in the first. Yes. It tells colleagues about unprotected levels, it's disabled people, it's veterans of work, it's veterans of war in this bill that aren't included. So the faction of the All-Ukrainian Freedom Union will be maintained. Thank you. Glory to Ukraine!
ParlaMint-UA_2013-07-02-m1.u171	When you said government numbers, you meant VR, right? The Vitalia Klitschka faction, People's Deputy Kaplin.
ParlaMint-UA_2013-07-02-m1.u172	Please pass the word to Oksani Prodan.
ParlaMint-UA_2013-07-02-m1.u173	Please give it to Oksana for sale.
ParlaMint-UA_2013-07-02-m1.u174	Dear Volodymyr Vasilovich, dear colleagues! The bill that we're discussing with you right now can really become a new experiment on Ukrainian citizens. And that's why. This bill introduces two things at the same time. On the one hand, local authorities are given the power to impose fines after fines have been imposed. The same authorities of local self - government are given the opportunity to control the work of playgrounds and the work of motorists. And these same local authorities are already being told in the same bill that they are obliged, but only now are they obliged to arrange the courses. In this project, the legislator foresees and determines that there are no courses. At the same time, it requires that you pay for these courses and that you don't have parking on them. That's not the way it is, you can't do that. There's another part of that question. We don't have roads in Ukraine today. The quality of roads, which are now both state and local, is not what we want better, we are told that the fascist will not pass, and this is guaranteed by Autodor. And these local authorities, who are obliged to prepare the playgrounds, are not given a penny for their equipment, and they don’t give a penny to work and repair the roads. We believe that to force people to pay for what is not, to impose responsibility for what cannot be done is anti-national and wrong, from the point of view of Ukrainian citizens. And that's why the strike faction won't support the bill. We ask all MPs not to support it, but to prepare a really good project that will finance new roads, finance road repairs and ensuring citizens' rights in Ukraine. Thank you.
ParlaMint-UA_2013-07-02-m1.u175	Thank you. From the faction of the Communist Party, the national deputy of Cibenko. Please.
ParlaMint-UA_2013-07-02-m1.u176	Thank you. Communist faction, Peter Cibenko, head of the Ukrainian Veterans Organization Council Dear colleagues, the direction of the movement proposed by this bill is absolutely right and must be supported. But what I would like to do today is further strengthen the idea that we, the faction of the Company of Ukraine, are willing to vote in favour of this bill on the condition that the profile committee in the process of preparing for the second reading is still working on the social component of this bill. What I mean. Well, first of all, since local governments, the authorities have more rights to organize this kind of activity, I hope, and the faction very much hopes that the local authorities will make the right use of this by allowing them to allocate a certain number of places, parking, and parking for those Ukrainian citizens who have special merit in front of the Fatherland. Especially the veterans of the Great Homeland War.
ParlaMint-UA_2013-07-02-m1.u177	Finish up.
ParlaMint-UA_2013-07-02-m1.u178	People with disabilities of the Great Homeland War. And one more thing I can't help but say. Dear colleagues, a little earlier in law, we have made changes to the allocation of a certain quota on each parking lot for the parking of disabled persons, but unfortunately this rule of law does not work. I wouldn't want that to happen this time. Thank you.
ParlaMint-UA_2013-07-02-m1.u179	Please, National Vice-Personnel, Easy, one minute, please.
ParlaMint-UA_2013-07-02-m1.u180	Oleg Lazko, Radical Party. On the one hand, we have such a shame when cars are standing on the pedestrian side of our capital of Krestets. Whoever's trying to walk on the weekend, it's not possible, you get a signal on your back, and they say, come on, don't go, 'cause we're muddy, we're driving. On the other hand, we have the same shame when people who own cars, there are no places to park them and the Ministry of Regional Development and Construction, I think that the next bill that has to be passed or reviewed by the government or parliament is changes in state building standards to predict during construction of housing or office buildings is necessarily to be parking lots on a multistory to allow drivers not just to fine them, but to park these cars. On the one hand, we get killed, even gas stations in residential buildings have cars, people complain, they can't get through. On the other hand, there's nowhere to put them. Therefore, the problem must be solved in a complex way, in the interests of others.
ParlaMint-UA_2013-07-02-m1.u181	Ladies and gentlemen, the discussion is over. I ask you to prepare for the vote of the National Deputies. Please do not run around the hall, but sit down and prepare for the vote. I am voting on a draft Act (No. 2499) amending certain Ukrainian legislation on parking rules for vehicles and establishing responsibility for parking rules for means of transport with proposals that have been made by deputies in preparation for second reading to be accepted as a basis. Now, if you'll excuse me, I'd like to ask the people's deputies to vote. Please vote. [[20:02:31]] For 216 Against 39, held - 59, not voted - 64. The decision is not taken. The factions. Region Party - 170, Parenthood - 1, Vitalia Klicka - 0, Freedom - 0, Company - 29, non-fractional - 16. There's an offer to send it to the committee, look at the proposals of the people's deputies, and send it back to the first. [[B in m in s a l in]] Ladies and gentlemen, we will return a little later to make a decision on this law. Because the Counting Commission is working, it will appear and we will return to the vote. A draft Act (2591) is under consideration to amend certain Ukrainian military service laws. How will we view it? Short-term procedure. I'll bet you a brief vote on the subject. You don't have to get nervous and yell hard, we'll figure it out together. [[20:04:47]] For 181 79, held – 6, did not vote – 112. Decision taken. I invite you to report to Deputy Defence Minister Vladimir Mikolaiovich Možarowski. Please.
ParlaMint-UA_2013-07-02-m1.u182	Dear Vladimir Vasilovich, distinguished national deputies, as you know, have been in service in the Ukrainian Armed Forces since 2006. The service in the military reserve is a voluntary exercise of military duty by Ukrainian citizens. The legal standards of this service, as laid down in the draft Ukrainian law, provide for amendments to four Ukrainian laws, namely the Ukrainian Armed Forces and Defence, the mobilization of mobilization, military service, and military service. They relate to extending guarantees of social and legal protection to reserves, ensuring equal rights in respect of serving in the military reserve by various categories of Ukrainian citizens, particularly women, requiring an enterprise to contribute to the performance of its duties as a reserve, expanding the ability to recruit reserve personnel for the deployment of the Armed Forces, including in peacetime, to eliminate the consequences of emergencies. Today, more than 2,000 reserve workers volunteer to serve in the military reserve. The adoption of the bill will allow for an increase in the number of reserve staff of 14,000 by 2017, provided by the National Integrated Development Reform Programme of the Ukrainian Armed Forces by 2017. The preparation of the reserves is planned to be carried out exclusively within the limits of the funds provided for in the State budget for the maintenance of the Ministry of Defence of Ukraine. I ask you, honourable national deputies, to support the bill in the first reading. And the comments and suggestions of the Chief Scientific and Expert Office to work on the decision of the Committee of the Supreme Council of Ukraine.
ParlaMint-UA_2013-07-02-m1.u183	Thank you. For my co-report, I invite the head of the National Security and Defence Committee, Alexander Ivanovich Kuzmuk. Please.
ParlaMint-UA_2013-07-02-m1.u184	Dear Volodymyr Vasilovich, highly worthy colleagues! The Security and Defence Committee considered the bill. Its main objective is to define military reserve service as a special form of military duty, to delimit the concept of reserve and military commitment, to create a mechanism for the engagement of reserve personnel to address the full range of tasks of the Ukrainian Armed Forces, and to harmonize social protection measures for military and reserve personnel. The implementation of the bill does not require any additional budget expenditure. The bill is consistent with all ministries and departments. The main scientific and expert office believes that the first reading of the bill may be based on the comments made to specific positions. On May 15, 2013, the bill was supported by all members of the committee. I ask the Supreme Council to support and adopt this bill as a basis. Thank you for your attention.
ParlaMint-UA_2013-07-02-m1.u185	Have a seat. Willing to Discuss? Please sign up for factions. Freedom, National Deputy of Cherniaków, please.
ParlaMint-UA_2013-07-02-m1.u186	Please pass the word to Orotuk Jurek.
ParlaMint-UA_2013-07-02-m1.u187	National MP Yuri Orotyuk, please.
ParlaMint-UA_2013-07-02-m1.u188	Yuri Orotyuk, the All-Ukrainian Freedom Union. Dear Vladimir Vasilovich, just as a failed bill, voted in favour of the head card of the Oilynik Counting Commission.
ParlaMint-UA_2013-07-02-m1.u189	What confidence can there be in such a parliament and in such a presiding officer when you say, "vote" and his card votes and he's gone?
ParlaMint-UA_2013-07-02-m1.u190	Eleven National Deputies of the Counting Commission of the Party of the Regions.
ParlaMint-UA_2013-07-02-m1.u191	His card was voted on.
ParlaMint-UA_2013-07-02-m1.u192	I'm telling you again.
ParlaMint-UA_2013-07-02-m1.u193	The card, it's missing in the hall, the card voted.
ParlaMint-UA_2013-07-02-m1.u194	Eleven members of the People's Party of the Regions in the reckoning committee. Speak up on the subject.
ParlaMint-UA_2013-07-02-m1.u195	So once again, the missing head of the Counting Commission, his card, like the other eleven members, votes. So the faction of the All-Ukrainian Union of Freedom will support Bill 2591 in the first reading. The independence of the State, its political weight in the world, is determined primarily by the ability to protect itself, regardless of whether the State is neutral, non-blocked, or a participant in collective security. The army must remain a priority. The out-of-block status determines the specific requirements for the country’s defence. Unfortunately, Ukraine is in such a situation that we should rely solely on our own strength in defense. Moreover, even today’s defence minister does not rule out territorial conflicts in Ukraine on economic ground, as he recently stated in his interview. Unfortunately, today's Ukrainian army is not in the best position and needs a fundamental reform, which we believe should be based on a highly technical and professional contractual army, a regular army and a national reserve of the Ukrainian Armed Forces. So the faction of the All-Ukrainian Freedom Union supports this bill. However, the model of the military reserve developed by today’s Ministry of Defence cannot seriously strengthen the country’s security. Today, there are a little over 2,000 reserve workers in Ukraine. To compare, in the United States, the number of reserves is roughly equal to the number of regular armies. And for states that have to rely solely on themselves, as is the case with Ukraine today, the reserve system can only be effective if it covers the majority of the population. For us, this might be Switzerland, where every citizen is militaryly bound and can at any time become a soldier. Ukraine.
ParlaMint-UA_2013-07-02-m1.u196	The Fatherland faction, Shulga People's Deputy.
ParlaMint-UA_2013-07-02-m1.u197	Vladimir Schulga, Fatherland faction. Please give the floor to Deputy Stojko.
ParlaMint-UA_2013-07-02-m1.u198	Ladies and gentlemen, I ask you to vote in person. Don't vote for each other. The Fatherland faction, Shulga People's Deputy. Please.
ParlaMint-UA_2013-07-02-m1.u199	Dear Volodymyr Vasilovich, dear colleagues! Mr. Vladimir Vasilovich, I ask you once again to pay attention to what has been violated in this room: the fact that the head of the Counting Commission is sitting on a committee and his card is voting. Well, that's ridiculous! With regard to this bill. Indeed, our committee considered him and supported him. What are we talking about? This is about standardizing the service of reserve personnel in the Ukrainian Armed Forces. First of all, we need to understand that businesses, organizations, institutions should give preference to those who are serving in the Ukrainian Armed Forces. It is also about the responsibility of those serving on reserve today, some 3,000 of whom, as the deputy minister said, should also have legal status. It's social protection and stuff. And of course they have to take responsibility for a certain reason because they are serving in the reserve of the Ukrainian Armed Forces and therefore the change to a number of laws, not four, Mr. Deputy Minister, but six are, and so I ask the other factions as well as the faction of the Fatherland to support the bill in the first reading. Thank you.
ParlaMint-UA_2013-07-02-m1.u200	The faction of the Party of the Regions, the national deputy of Žuravsky.
ParlaMint-UA_2013-07-02-m1.u201	We will, of course, support this bill in the first reading. However, it should be noted that the moment of commencement and termination of service in the military reserve should be specified in the law rather than in the law, as proposed in the new article 26 (with badge 1) of the above law. Because these are the points that make the reservation a major legal consequence. For example, article 24 of this law establishes the beginning and conclusion of military service and often places of service. The draft section of article 17 of the Ukrainian Defence Act, section 4 of the Ukrainian Armed Forces Act, fully duplicates the prescriptions of article 5 of the Ukrainian Armed Forces Act in the drafting of the project. This should be taken into account when preparing this bill for second reading. Thank you.
ParlaMint-UA_2013-07-02-m1.u202	The Vitalia Klitschka faction, People's Deputy Kaplin.
ParlaMint-UA_2013-07-02-m1.u203	Kaplin, Vitaly Klitschka Faction. Vladimir Vasilovich! First of all, we'd like to welcome you to your granddaughter's birth and please pass on the word to Victor Chumaku.
ParlaMint-UA_2013-07-02-m1.u204	Please, Victor Chumak. Turn on the microphone.
ParlaMint-UA_2013-07-02-m1.u205	Victor Chumak, 214 District, Dniprovsky District, Kiev, Vitalia Klicka Political Party. Dear Vladimir Vasilovich! Dear National Deputies! Of course, we all know the state of the Ukrainian army today. We know very clearly that today it has been transformed into such armed formation without goals, without tasks, without any major decisions necessary to carry out the tasks of protecting our country. But no doubt we know that there is a military service such as a reserve service. And it's probably the countries that are in a state like Ukraine, and the army is in a state like this, and Ukraine, in a mode of some kind of non-blocking and lack of a clear trend in the area of collective defence, that needs to be clearly defined by the legal situation of those who are serving in the military reserve. We will uphold this law. But we believe that, along with what was said by the national deputy, Zharavsky, there are inadequacies in certain rules regarding and social protection of reserve personnel, which are comparable not only during the service, but generally during the service on reserve to military personnel serving in the army under contract. Therefore, for the second reading, we will require that the social protection rules of the reserve personnel be brought into line with existing legislation. Thank you.
ParlaMint-UA_2013-07-02-m1.u206	Thank you. The discussion is over. I'm asking the people's deputies to prepare for the vote. People's deputies, please prepare. I'm betting on the bill. All factions have expressed their support for this law. I am voting on the draft Act (Registration No. 2591) amending certain Ukrainian legislation on military reserve service as a basis. Please vote. [[20:18:13]] For 336 Against - 0, held - 0, did not vote - 43. Decision taken. The factions. A draft Act (No. 2938) is under consideration to amend certain laws of Ukraine to reduce the number of documents of a permissive nature to be obtained by food market operators. The offer is under reduced procedure. I'll bet you a vote. People's deputies, please vote. The offer is under reduced procedure. [[20:19:05]] For 185 Against 68, held – 8, not voted – 119. Decision taken. The factions. I'm asking the first deputy minister of agrarian politics and food of Ivan Yuriovich Bisuk to report to the rostrum. Please.
ParlaMint-UA_2013-07-02-m1.u207	Dear Vladimir Vasilovich! Dear National Deputies! The draft Ukrainian Food Market Operators Act amending certain Ukrainian legislation to reduce the number of documents of a permissive nature to be obtained by food market operators was designed to implement the tasks defined by the implementation of European legislation, approved by the Cabinet of Ministers and addressed to the Supreme Council of Ukraine in 2012. But in connection with the completion of the powers of the national deputies, he was called off. The bill has been finalized in accordance with the conclusion of the Supreme Council of Ukraine's Chief Scientific and Expert Office. The project proposes to amend the seven laws of Ukraine regarding the reduction of certification of beekeeping products as part of our State’s commitment as a member of the World Trade Organization. Reference to conclusions containing signs of permissive nature but not included in the list of documents of a permissive nature. The documents also duplicate other documents of a permissive nature: milk production tests; milk raw materials and dairy products; fish products that have an additional administrative impact on market operators. Since the monitoring authorities carry out State control and market surveillance on a permanent basis, it is duplicated by an operating permit. The implementation of the project will simplify the activities of operators, have a positive effect on business development, harmonize Ukraine’s legislation with the European Union’s legislation in the area of the issuance of permits. Please support the proposed bill as a basis. Thank you.
ParlaMint-UA_2013-07-02-m1.u208	Thank you. Have a seat. I invite the head of the Committee on Entrepreneurship, Regulatory and Anti-Monopoly Policy, Alexander Volodymyr's Kugel, to report. Please, National Deputy Kugel, to the rostrum. Act 2938.
ParlaMint-UA_2013-07-02-m1.u209	Dear Head, distinguished national MPs! Before the first reading, a government bill is proposed to amend some Ukrainian legislation on reducing the number of permits that food market operators should receive. To save you, and to understand that everyone is tired, I want to say that this bill would be nice to say that, for example, I am the author. This is a bill that the government has put forward and is pleased to support. It's the first time that it's created for our industries that make Ukrainian food equal terms with the Customs Union and with Europe in part of the refusal of certification. Even Russia, Belarus, Kazakhstan, all refused, there was one Ukraine. It's a very clear bill. I propose to vote on it in the first reading.
ParlaMint-UA_2013-07-02-m1.u210	Do you want to talk about it? Please sign up for factions. Please, Freedom Union, Sabia People's Deputy.
ParlaMint-UA_2013-07-02-m1.u211	Please pass the word to Paul Kirilenko.
ParlaMint-UA_2013-07-02-m1.u212	Please give me your word.
ParlaMint-UA_2013-07-02-m1.u213	Paul Kirilenko, the All-Ukrainian "Freedom" faction, Restoration. Honorable National Deputies, distinguished Ukrainians! We see now, in the example of this bill 2938, ordinary lobbyism and what today the Supreme Council is turning into a small group of oligarchs. What are we talking about? This is a kind of improvement for business subjects. Although it is true that improvements take place only for monopolists in food production. What's proposed. It is suggested that a number of permits for certification and certification of the production capacity of food and alcohol be revoked. He said, if this is over, enough of those standards of state DSTU and TT. But who will be in place to monitor compliance with these national standards in specific cities. In specific areas? We can only achieve one thing -- that Ukrainian grocery stores are going to be overrun by inequitable food products. They say, "Corruption. You can still buy any help from an epidemiology station on bribes and work in peace." But agree that this is no way out of the situation. Agree that if drivers are buying licenses today, this does not mean that the exams need to be canceled. I mean, society, today is Ukrainian.
ParlaMint-UA_2013-07-02-m1.u214	The Vitalia Klitschka faction of the People's Deputy Sold.
ParlaMint-UA_2013-07-02-m1.u215	Dear Volodymyr Vasilovich, distinguished national deputies! I'm asking you to support this bill because it's one of the few projects that really supports production, Ukrainian production. Today, producers who have nothing to do with power, the biggest tax they pay is a corrupt tax. And this bill that we're looking at with you right now, this corrupt tax is going to go down a lot. Today, for the production of goods, for the manufacture of food products that we buy with you, which very rarely correspond to the quality that it describes, the Ukrainian manufacturer is obliged, unlike the importer, to have permission, to have background information, to be tested, to be certified, to be certified. With all these documents, our products, our products, they don't want to accept and sell, they don't want to implement in Europe, where they really think about their consumer. Today, Ukrainian products are more expensive than imported products. More expensive than the food they bring from countries where they seem unable to grow at all. So the adoption of this project will reduce the corruption component in Ukrainian production and allow us to engage in, and implement Ukrainian production not only to those oligarchs who are close to power, but also to the ordinary Ukrainian simple entrepreneur. And what the prime minister said about the fact that this bill was not adopted in the past, as if for technical reasons, is not true. Because in the past, he was not allowed to vote on the lobbyists of corruption who are now making money on the Ukrainian producer and on the Ukrainian consumer. So if those MPs who think about Ukrainian citizens and consumers vote in favour of the bill. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-UA_2013-07-02-m1.u216	Party of regions, national deputy of Žuravsky.
ParlaMint-UA_2013-07-02-m1.u217	Dear colleagues, this is one of the best drafts our government has to submit and this should be noted. Moreover, this bill is a real source of corruption in this area. The bill is transparent and regulatory; it will have a positive impact on the market environment; it will ensure the rights and interests of the owners, citizens, and statesmen. It is also in line with the principles of national regulatory policy. He was supported by the Committee of Profiles, and we will support him as well. Thank you.
ParlaMint-UA_2013-07-02-m1.u218	The Fatherland faction, National Deputy Ivan Kirilenko.
ParlaMint-UA_2013-07-02-m1.u219	Dear head, distinguished voters, respected colleagues! Kirilenko, united opposition to the Fatherland. Dear colleagues, I wouldn't rush into saying that this is one of the best drafts the government has ever passed. I'd put the horse first, then the wagon. We put the wagon in front, and then we think about how to put the horse. We cancel, instead, until we offer. Can we propose the standards of the European Union and then cancel what is, would it not be better? By canceling what is today, without offering anything, do we not open wide doors to allow procedures called "voluntaryness"? I'm personally a witness when one of the certified labs performed a analysis of the baby's snacks. On the screen, the cut, on the cut, is 2 percent. What is it, I'm asking the labs? 2 percent is natural meat. And everything else is what? And everything else is an import parchment made of skin and broken bones, and the soy surrogate is called a baby. The second question. The largest importer in Europe of palm oil? Which country, I guess? Ukraine, which imports more than the whole European Union, is taken together. Where's the palm oil? In all products, it's called dairy, palm oil. It would be a good thing if palm oil didn't cause oncosa in children and cardiovascular diseases, it would be a good thing, unfortunately. I want to emphasize again, we cancel the tests, we cancel the tests on milk production, milk raw material, dairy products. We cancel the certification of food, food, drinking water, and related materials. We continue to support reform efforts. In the first reading, we will vote, but the question remains. What about what happens in the country’s food market? Dear friends, when you propose to cancel, immediately place European standards in the hall.
ParlaMint-UA_2013-07-02-m1.u220	Let me finish.
ParlaMint-UA_2013-07-02-m1.u221	The European Union has an average life expectancy of 82 years. We live 20 years less, and that's because of the older generation that lived under the old standards. Friends, please bring in something that will protect the health of the citizens. Thank you.
ParlaMint-UA_2013-07-02-m1.u222	Thank you. The faction of the Ukrainian Company, the national deputy of the Jury.
ParlaMint-UA_2013-07-02-m1.u223	The jury, the Communist faction. Dear colleagues, the Communist faction will support the bill, but only on first reading. I would like to highlight the following with regard to this bill. Indeed, in a large way, the reduction in permits does not address the responsibility of producers, especially child nutrition, for the quality of these products. We insist that, up to criminal responsibility, those who supply non-quality products have been held responsible. To date, none of the producers, once again, bore any responsibility for child nutrition. Although the facts in children’s health camps are widespread. And to the end. There has never been and will never be a high-quality diet until the communists are in power. Only communists will be able to bring back quality, affordable, good food for children, for young people, for all sectors of our population. Thank you.
ParlaMint-UA_2013-07-02-m1.u224	People's MP, please. One minute, Lyushka. Then Alexander Kugel and we make decisions. Please.
ParlaMint-UA_2013-07-02-m1.u225	Oleg Lazko, Radical Party. Dear fellow MPs! I ask you to listen to John Grigorovich Kirilenko's point of view, this is the person who better understands all of us together on this issue. But, Ivan Grigorovich, you say there's a horse in front of a wagon or a wagon ahead of the horse. I'm going to tell you that even a horse, even though it's a mare, is going to die anyway, and it's not going to pull that wagon, because they've dragged the country into such a chaff that ten horses and a mare won't pull that wagon. And now essentially the bill. In 20 years, we turned Ukraine into a site where imported mud was imported. Recently, last week, 40 children in a children’s garden in Kiev were poisoned — salmonella — because they ate non - quality products. And so when we talk about cancelling free procedures, we should not do so by reducing the quality of our products because of the health of our children. And that's why we have to. In the European Union, try to get to their market.
ParlaMint-UA_2013-07-02-m1.u226	Thank you. Alexandra Kugel, one minute and we'll make a decision.
ParlaMint-UA_2013-07-02-m1.u227	You know, I figured out why for 20 years we can't accept any normal reform for our manufacturer. Because when we discuss this issue, they're confusing everything that's appropriate. Ivan Grigorovich said that the first reading should be accepted. Mr. Lazko, listen. In the first reading, why? They're changing the certification, my family, and it doesn't affect anything except what's taking our producer's money. I'm telling you, in 2009, I reveal that the certification committee gave the certificate the right to add palm oil to all Ukrainian cheeses. Well, did this certificate protect you? And all of our producers paid for it. At that time, Russians, Belarusians, who did not take money from it, were imported. The person who collects honey, according to our law, will not be, in a year should collect documents and receive them. And just take the money, and the papers, a thousand 800 bucks.
ParlaMint-UA_2013-07-02-m1.u228	Thank you, thank you. Ladies and gentlemen, please prepare for the vote. I am voting on the draft Act (No. 2938) amending certain laws of Ukraine to reduce the number of documents of a permissive nature to be obtained by food market operators for adoption. Please vote. [[20:35:44.]] For 308. Against it, 1 / 1 Abstaining is 39. They didn't vote 35. Decision taken. The factions. A draft (No. 2021) of the Act amending certain legislative acts of Ukraine concerning the authorization to register collective agreements and agreements is under consideration. How will we view it? Please, who supports the reduced procedure, vote. [[20:36:34]] For-183 Against it is 68. We're holding on to eight. They didn't vote - 122. Decision taken. The factions. I invite you to the rostrum, Deputy Minister of Social Policy of Viacheslav Mikolaiovich Kolomayic.
ParlaMint-UA_2013-07-02-m1.u229	Dear Volodymyr Vasilovich, distinguished national deputies! In October 2012, the Supreme Council of Ukraine adopted the Act "On Amendments to certain Ukrainian legislative acts on the definition of the sides of collective negotiations", which, inter alia, stipulates that branches and territorial agreements are subject to a reported registration by the central executive authority in the field of social policy, and collective agreements and agreements of a different level are registered by local executive authorities. At the same time, the Ukrainian Law on Local Self-Government in Ukraine states that the registration of collective agreements and agreements is carried out by implementing bodies of rural, rural and urban councils. However, Ukraine's basic Law on Collective Contracts and Agreements does not contain such a norm. Thus, there is a contradiction between the Basic Law on Collective Contracts and Agreements and the Ukrainian Law on Local Self-Government in Ukraine in the definition of the subject who makes the reported registration. In order to address this problem, the Ministry of Social Policy has drafted a bill proposing to supplement the Ukrainian Collective Agreements and Agreements Act with the rules for the registration of collective agreements and territorial agreements by local governments. Similarly, the Code of Laws on the Work of Ukraine contains a standard. And empowering the Cabinet of Ministers of Ukraine to approve the order of the reported registration of sectoral and territorial agreements of collective agreements. I'd like to support you on the basis and in general. Thank you.
ParlaMint-UA_2013-07-02-m1.u230	Thank you. Have a seat. For the report, I invite the first deputy head of the Committee on Social Policy and the work of Jaroslav Mikhailovich Suhhogo. Please.
ParlaMint-UA_2013-07-02-m1.u231	Dear colleagues! The bill is extremely concise and short. It's meant to eliminate disagreements between the laws on collective agreements and agreements, on Ukraine's local self-government, and on Ukraine's labour laws. Let's say, as long as we don't make a choice with you, we don't make the Labour Code, we'll continue to run into the Labour Code that couldn't predict that we would have private property here in 71 years, bankruptcy and so forth. So when you consult here, take a look at the Comparative Table. This law consists of four sentences. Therefore, the committee is proposing to accept it as a basis and as a whole.
ParlaMint-UA_2013-07-02-m1.u232	Please sign up for a faction discussion. [[B in m in s a l in]] To the vote? Those who have signed up agree to put this law to the vote? Agreed? [[B in m in s a l in]] Don't agree. There's no need to break the rules. Please, Freedom Union, People's Deputy Hanenko.
ParlaMint-UA_2013-07-02-m1.u233	Please pass the word to Ruslan Zelik.
ParlaMint-UA_2013-07-02-m1.u234	Pass it on, please.
ParlaMint-UA_2013-07-02-m1.u235	Dear colleagues! Ruslan Zelik, the All-Ukrainian Freedom Union. You know, the adoption of this law is exactly the moment when we're not a word, we're going to help local self-government. I want to support Jaroslav Mikhailovich Suhogo's words that, in fact, local self-government authorities will be able to register collective agreements, territorial agreements. Moreover, this bill does not require any subsidies from the state budget and does not require other legislative acts. The All-Ukrainian "Freedom" union will support this law on the basis and in general. Thank you.
ParlaMint-UA_2013-07-02-m1.u236	The Fatherland faction, Bondarenko, National MP. Please.
ParlaMint-UA_2013-07-02-m1.u237	Vladimir Bondarenko, united opposition to the Fatherland. Dear colleagues, the reporting nature proposed by this law is the simplification of the procedure, the democratization of the process, the reconciliation. Because any reconciliation that requires a visa or the consent of the body to which such a message is addressed requires time, and sometimes some steps related to material encouragement to such reconciliation. Any message that comes, that becomes the right to carry out one or another action, is a progressive step. So I also propose to support this bill and vote for it today. Thank you.
ParlaMint-UA_2013-07-02-m1.u238	Please, the faction of the Company of Ukraine, National Deputy Shugalo.
ParlaMint-UA_2013-07-02-m1.u239	Please pass the word to Zybenko.
ParlaMint-UA_2013-07-02-m1.u240	Please, National Deputy Cibenko.
ParlaMint-UA_2013-07-02-m1.u241	Thank you. Communist faction, Peter Cibenko. Dear colleagues, respected citizens of Ukraine! Absolutely right co-reporter from the committee that this document can indeed be voted not only on the basis but also on the whole. Because it's about that it's largely of a cohesive nature, a technological character. The point is to harmonize the three laws on local self - government in Ukraine, the Labour Code, and the Collective Contracts Act. So this document can be voted on completely, because if, in article 34 of the Law on Local Self-Government there is the right of local self-government authorities to register collective agreements, of course, this must be in line with the Law on Collective Contracts and Agreements. The other thing that really is at the local level is the classic, or at the Ukrainian level, is that you have to work very carefully with these documents because sometimes in a particular organization there are, let's say, two or three professional organizations and you have to reconcile the situation with them because there's a certain discrepancy between their activities. So once again, I stress that this document can be voted on both the basis and in general. Thank you.
ParlaMint-UA_2013-07-02-m1.u242	Caplin gives Paul Rosenco the word. Right? It's Vitaly Call's Faction. Please.
ParlaMint-UA_2013-07-02-m1.u243	Paul Rosenco, Vitaly Caller's Faction. We support the simplification of the registration procedures of collective agreements by all means and means. And generally simplifying all procedures that affect any entrepreneurial business activity in Ukraine. This is our ideology, this is our basic principle. But in this case, we support this bill, but please, colleagues, one minute of attention. We have now agreed two points of principle with the Ministry and with representatives of the committee. See article 13 for possible double treatment, for it reads: "Collective contracts are subject to local registration by local executive authorities and local self-government authorities." This may lead to the obligation of entrepreneurs and businesses to register contracts both in the executive branch and in the local authorities. Unfortunately, the nature of our officials is that they don't read the laws as we write them, but they read to drive a poor entrepreneur into their office. That's why this article says, "Organizations of executive power or organs of local self-government." And the same is true in article 9, where there are executive authorities or local authorities. And then the questions are off, the ambiguities are off, we're taking steps to benefit the labor community and businesses. And we can vote with such amendments on the basis and in general.
ParlaMint-UA_2013-07-02-m1.u244	Please, Jaroslav Mikhailovich. Please.
ParlaMint-UA_2013-07-02-m1.u245	Dear colleagues, after consulting members of the committee here on the spot, we make the decision to determine this point. The Ministry doesn't deny it. So in editorial terms it has to be this way, instead of a hundred, it's either twice or it's a proposal for a hit to vote for this bill as a whole.
ParlaMint-UA_2013-07-02-m1.u246	Attention! Please prepare for the vote. I am voting on the draft Act (No. 2021a) amending certain legislative acts of Ukraine concerning the authorization to register collective agreements and agreements with the proposal of the people's deputies, Rosenka, for adoption as a basis and as a whole. Please vote. [[20:47:08]] For 332 Against 0, held – 1, not voted – 45. Decision taken. The factions. Ladies and gentlemen, I will now give the floor to the Counting Commission. But once the results are announced, we'll keep working. Please, we have some more laws that we need to consider with you. To announce the results of the secret ballot, Volodymyr Mikolaiovich Olijnik, Head of the Counting Commission, is given the floor. Please.
ParlaMint-UA_2013-07-02-m1.u247	Dear Volodymyr Vasilovich, dear colleagues! Protocol No.2. Meeting of the Counting Commission of the Supreme Council of Ukraine since 2 July 2013. Organisation Head of the Counting Commission, Olijnik, Deputy Head of the Counting Commission, Kanivec, Secretary of the Counting Commission, Gordijenko. Members of the Counting Commission: Heleway, Hinka, Demidko, Zubko, Zubčevsky, Klužny, Kugel, Kuprejčik, Final, Pavlovsky, Pinchuk, Skubaszewski, Stoyan, Dry, Chechtov, Chugunnikov, Switzerland. They heard the summary of the secret ballot for the appointment of members of the High Council of Justice. The ballot papers for the secret ballot on the appointment of members of the High Council of Justice included the nominations: Koleschenka Vladimir Mikolaiovich, Kuzmišina Vitalija Mikolaiovich, Lavrinovich Alexander Volodymyrovich, Vlasenko Sergija Volodymyrovich, Krejekko Oleg Igorevich. On the basis of the results of the secret ballot, the Counting Commission established. First. The number of Ukrainian national deputies recognized is 444. The number of Ukrainian national deputies who received secret ballots is 402. The number of Ukrainian national deputies who took part in the vote is 402. Four. Number of invalid ballots - 4. Fifth. No candidate is supported - 4. Results of the vote. For Kolesnikka Volodymira Mikolajovica – 309 "for". [[Applause]] The number of votes for Kuzmishina Vitalia Mikolaiovich is 244. [[Applause]] The number of "for" Lavrinovich Alexander Volodymyrovic – 238. [[Applause]] The number of votes cast by Sergei Volodymyrovich for Vlasenko is 126. The number of votes cast by the German Oleg Igorevich is 147. In accordance with article 131 of the Constitution of Ukraine, article 8 of the Ukrainian Act on the Higher Council of Justice, Chapter VII and Article 208 of the Ukrainian Act on the Rules of Procedure of the Supreme Council of Ukraine, the Counting Commission decided: to consider the members of the Supreme Council of Justice: Koleschenka Volodymira Mikolaiovich, Kuzmišina Vitalia Mikolaiovich and Lavrinovich Alexander Volodymyrovich. The head of the Counting Commission, Oliynik. Deputy Head of the Counting Commission, Kanovec. Secretary of the Police Commission, Gordienko. Members of the Counting Commission have no comments on the minutes and meetings, and no elections are held. Thank you for your attention.
ParlaMint-UA_2013-07-02-m1.u248	Ladies and gentlemen, let's congratulate Kolesnik Vladimir Mikolaiovich, Kuzmišina Vitalia Mikolaiovich and Lavrinovich Alexander Volodymyrovich on his election to the High Council of Justice and wish them success. [[Applause]] And, honourable national deputies, in accordance with article 17 of the Law on the Higher Council of Justice and article 217 of the Rules of the Supreme Council of Ukraine, before taking office as a member of the Supreme Council of Justice, an oath is made at the meeting of the Supreme Council of Ukraine. To make an oath to the rostrum, a member of the High Council of Justice, Koleschenko Volodymyr Mikolayovich, is invited. Please.
ParlaMint-UA_2013-07-02-m1.u249	Thank you. I, Koleschenko Volodymyr Mikolaiovich, have sworn conscientiously, honestly and impartially to perform the duties of a member of the High Council of Justice in order to ensure the formation of a corps of high - professional and honest lawyers and the observance of law and ethics in the activities of judges and prosecutors. Thank you.
ParlaMint-UA_2013-07-02-m1.u250	Thank you. Good luck. To make an oath to the rostrum, a member of the Supreme Council of Justice, Kuzmishin Vitaly Mikolayovich, is invited.
ParlaMint-UA_2013-07-02-m1.u251	I, Kuzmishin Vitaly Mikolayovich, have sworn conscientiously, honestly and impartially to perform the duties of a member of the High Council of Justice to ensure the formation of a corps of high - professional and honest lawyers, and to uphold the law and ethics of judges and prosecutors.
ParlaMint-UA_2013-07-02-m1.u252	Thank you. Good luck. Ladies and gentlemen, we continue our work. We considered, you know, Law 2499, which did not vote. The faction of the Party of the Regions offered to return to this issue. That is why 11 members of the People’s Party of the Regions worked on the Counting Commission. So I'm voting back to draft Law 2499. People's deputies, please vote. [[20:54:11]] For 233 Against 62, held – 28, not voted – 55. Decision taken. The factions. And now I'm putting to the vote, I'm asking the attention of the national MPs, draft Law 2499, amending some of the Ukrainian legislation on parking rules for vehicles and establishing responsibility for parking rules for vehicles. Members of the national parliament are requested to vote with the remarks made by the national deputies. Please vote. [[8:55:11]] For 232 Against 14, held – 69, not voted – 61. Decision taken. The factions. A draft Act (No. 2339) on the amendment of Appendices Nos. 3 and 7 to the Ukrainian Act on the State Budget for Ukraine 2013 is under consideration (referring to the name of the subsidy). Reporting by Ukraine’s national deputy Kilinkarov Spiridon Pavlovich. How do we view it? Short-term procedure. Please vote deputies. [[20:56:06]] For 193 Against -70, held – 5, did not vote – 107. Decision taken. Please, Spiridon Pavlovich.
ParlaMint-UA_2013-07-02-m1.u253	Dear National Deputies! The bill is designed to address the problems that arise in the production and transport of water because of the high level of wear and tear of the network and the inadequate technical state of the water supply and water supply systems. The need to make arrangements not only for major repairs but also for reconstruction and new construction, that is, for the restoration and creation of basic funds for enterprises, for the construction of new facilities, and for networks. Let me remind you that capital repair is a complex of construction and repairs that provides for the replacement and modernization of water supply and water supply systems in connection with their physical wear and tear. So government funds, as always, are going to be aimed at patching holes. I propose to expand the capacity of the local authorities with the necessary project and cost-saving documentation, namely, to allow for the use of funds either for reconstruction and for the construction of new water and water supplies, i.e. the budgeted funds are directly invested. I want to tell the people's deputies that this bill is supported by the Ministry of Finance, the Ministry of Regional Development, the Procedural Committee, the Committee on Construction, Urban and Housing, and the Committee on Budgets. Speaking to you, Vladimir Vasilovich, given that this is the last plenary week, I ask, if there is agreement in the hall, to consider this bill in the first reading and in general, taking into account the specific observations of the budget committee, which are purely technical. Please support this bill. Thank you.
ParlaMint-UA_2013-07-02-m1.u254	For the co-rapporteur's report, please invite the head of the Committee on Budgets, Eugene Borisovich Geller.
ParlaMint-UA_2013-07-02-m1.u255	Thank you. Dear Vladimir Vasilovich, distinguished national deputies and invited! On March 20, the Budget Committee reviewed the draft Law number 2939, and the bill envisions an extension of the name of the subsidy to the capital repair of centralized water supply and water supply systems, such as new construction and reconstruction of the listed systems. The Committee considers it appropriate to exclude the word "new" from the title of the subsidy, considering that the term "new construction" is not used in legal instruments, and to make the bill compatible with the requirements of drafting amendments to the State Budget Act, which does not change its substance. Given the importance of improving the technical status of central water supply and water supply systems, the Committee adopted the following decision: recommending to the Supreme Council a bill of law (2939) to be adopted on the basis and as a whole as a law, taking into account the Committee's proposals for technical and legal clarifications of the draft legislation put forward in the Committee's letter to the Supreme Council. Accordingly, the Committee on Budgetary Questions, together with the Chief Legal Authority of the Supreme Council, should be signed by the Head of the Supreme Council of the Bill (registration number 2339) in the event of its adoption, should provide the necessary editorial and technical legal clarifications relating to the approved committee's decision to the bill. Please support the committee's decision. Thank you for your attention.
ParlaMint-UA_2013-07-02-m1.u256	Have a seat. Do you want to talk about it? Please sign up for factions. The Fatherland faction, National Deputy Alexander Kugel. Please.
ParlaMint-UA_2013-07-02-m1.u257	Thank you. A very difficult situation is that the bill provides for a technical change. I want to draw the attention of all the deputies to the fact that the money is already in the 2013 budget. In fact, our faction is very painful to see that they are projected to be only six regions that the party itself has distributed. But understanding that there is also our electorate, our citizens of Ukraine, who suffer greatly from lack of water -- the Donetsk, Lugansk, Kharkiv region -- and understanding that the government will give the mayor money only at the end of the year, we understand that we need to support the expansion of these costs, except for the reconstruction of construction and capital repairs. Thank you.
ParlaMint-UA_2013-07-02-m1.u258	Party of regions, National Deputies of Popescu.
ParlaMint-UA_2013-07-02-m1.u259	Thank you. The faction of the Party of the Regions. Dear colleagues, it is perfectly clear that we must vote and move on. A party of regions is in favour, and we ask our colleagues to speak less -- and vote because we have a lot of work to do today. Thank you.
ParlaMint-UA_2013-07-02-m1.u260	Freedom Union, Sabia People's Deputy.
ParlaMint-UA_2013-07-02-m1.u261	Please pass the word to Andrew Illenka.
ParlaMint-UA_2013-07-02-m1.u262	Please, Andrew Illenka.
ParlaMint-UA_2013-07-02-m1.u263	Andrew Illenko, faction of the All-Ukrainian Freedom Union, city of Kiev. Dear colleagues, we understand that this is a technical correction that is right. And we support this bill, the draft changes to the law. However, I would like to point out that this subsidy itself is totally unjust, and in fact, out of the 440 million dollars allocated for this subsidy, 200 million go to the Donetsk Region, 130 go to Lugansk, 50 go to Zaporzik, 40 go to Dnipropetrovsk and 10 million go to Mikolaivsk and Hersonsk. It seems that water supply and water supply systems are the only problems in these areas, and everything else is perfect. Such a totally unfair and politically engaged system of budget allocation is completely contrary to the Constitution. Both the budget code and common sense. But I would like to say one more thing. What happened here when the vote was taken by the High Council of Justice, there was a vote on the missing person’s card in the room for objective reasons for the head of Mr. Olijnik’s Counting Commission. I don't know whether he invented cloning technology and he has a clone, or he has a clone, and we don't know about it, or whether it's some kind of telepathy or mass hypnosis technology or not, but it's a complete disgrace when the head of the Counting Commission passes a card to someone and then this card votes when he's not in the room and it can be documented. So the request to stop this circus and still to adhere to a legitimate personal vote. Thank you.
ParlaMint-UA_2013-07-02-m1.u264	The Vitalia Klitschka faction, the people's deputy, Rosenko.
ParlaMint-UA_2013-07-02-m1.u265	Hand over the chapel, please.
ParlaMint-UA_2013-07-02-m1.u266	Please, Caplin. Put the chapel on.
ParlaMint-UA_2013-07-02-m1.u267	Capplin Sergey, Vitaly Klitschka Faction, Poltawa, electoral district 144. Suddenly, the Communists and the Party of the Regions came to make changes to the name of the subsidy. Of course, in order to continue robbing those residents, call them. install equipment that is former, install equipment that no longer works, but call it new. It's the right thing to do. But. The strike party will support this proposal. But it will control that you don't continue to rob housing and utilities because you've done everything you can to make 70 percent of the communication about water supply and water supply in such a terrible state. You've initiated and carried out a kind of Euro-2012, instead you'd make the capremont better for these people, especially pensioners, to live as humans, not to use water of an appropriate low quality. Next. You've unleashed incredible corruption in the LHC system. It's just some kind of cancerous, corrupt tumor on the body of the state. And the last. You're still preparing for the winter Olympics later. You'd better think about a simple Ukrainian citizen who wants to have a rehabilitated approach that wants normal water to be provided through communications, so that the state doesn't spend money on thermal energy because all communications that wants to live in normal homes and wants to live in safe cities are already worn out, rather than inventing a variety of global projects that you don't need to raise the image of the country, because you wouldn't want to throw politicians in jail, and from that, the image of the country would grow higher than you would do all those shares. So I urge you all to think about a simple person, not to think about how to exploit this simple one.
ParlaMint-UA_2013-07-02-m1.u268	Yes, you have forgotten the subject that we are discussing. I beg of you, the national MP of Goncharov, the faction of the Ukrainian Company.
ParlaMint-UA_2013-07-02-m1.u269	Potterov, faction of the Ukrainian Company. The faction of the Compartia of Ukraine will support the bill. [[B in m in s a l in]] Because it focuses primarily on the reconstruction and improvement of the water supply system. Because here some of our opponents are talking, but in 20 years, they've robbed everything they can, and today we need to fix the situation. I will note that today the value of water in the Lugansk region is up to 9 bracelets. The water supply is 240-300 kilometres. The bill is therefore aimed at expanding and enabling local councils to use these funds. The Company will therefore support the bill.
ParlaMint-UA_2013-07-02-m1.u270	Ladies and gentlemen, please prepare for the vote. I am voting on the draft Act (No. 2339) amending Appendices 3 and 7 of the Ukrainian Act on the State Budget for Ukraine 2013 (recast of the name of the subsidy) for adoption as a basis and as a whole. Please vote. [[B in m in s a l in]] [[21:08:16]] For 222 Against 19, held – 11, not voted – 118. The decision is not taken. Honorable National MPs. [[B in m in s a l in]] First reading. Okay. Oleg Lazko made an offer in the first reading. I therefore put to the vote Draft Law (No. 2339) amending Appendices Nos. 3 and 7 of the Ukrainian Act on the State Budget for Ukraine for 2013 (for a change in the name of the subsidy). There is an offer to go back to the consideration of this law. Please vote. Vote, let's go. [[21:09:48]] For 285 Against 7, held – 2, not voted – 81. Decision taken. I am voting on Draft Law (No. 2339) amending Appendices Nos. 3 and 7 of the Ukrainian Act on the State Budget for Ukraine 2013 (as regards the change in the name of the subsidy) for adoption as a basis. People's deputies, please vote. [[21:10:35]] For 298 Against 8, held – 4, not voted – 67. The decision is made in the first reading. I'm asking you to turn on Kilinkarov, head of the committee.
ParlaMint-UA_2013-07-02-m1.u271	Honorable National MPs, purely a technical draft of the Law. I want to draw your attention, if we don't now adopt this law as a whole, two more months we'll just go back to reviewing this law. And even the funds that are now being earmarked for these regions are simply not going to be used. So please, there's no politics here. I'm addressing the National Deputies once again, let's vote on this law in general, taking into account the observations that are on the Budget Committee. Thank you.
ParlaMint-UA_2013-07-02-m1.u272	Ladies and gentlemen, calm down. We were looking at Law 2130, there's a technical regulation. That's why I'm giving the floor to the head of the Kaletnik committee, Grigori Mikolaiovich.
ParlaMint-UA_2013-07-02-m1.u273	Ladies and gentlemen of the people, Your Honor Vladimir Vasilovich! Thank you for your word. The people's deputies had a transcript of the results of the 2130 vote. And it was decided to accept the proposal of the Mishchenka People's Deputies, the Non-Factional Deputies, the Freedom faction, the Fatherland faction, which made proposals for amendments 16 and 28. We voted in favour. Now I ask you to vote against these amendments. And so, for the transcript, this final paragraph of the fifth part of the first 123 of the Ukrainian Code of Land will be presented in the next edition. "The land-use facility in other cases is made on the basis of technical documentation with a land-based system for the establishment of land boundaries in kind. In such a case, the development of such documentation shall be based on permission granted by the Supreme Council of the Autonomous Republic of Crimea, the Council of Ministers of the Autonomous Republic of Crimea, the executive authority or the local self-government authority in accordance with the powers defined in article 122 of this Code, except in cases where a person is interested in obtaining land for use, is entitled to order the development of such documentation without granting such permission." So we're talking about the issue that you're talking about refusing to bring a citizen to court and the decision of the court should be the basis for granting that permission, and we've agreed on your proposal on the committee. So I would ask for a similar amendment to article 123, and the next amendment to article 123 would also be based on these suggestions. I ask you to vote in favour of this option that I gave you, this is for the transcript, I say in favour of this option, and to vote on this law again in general. Thank you.
ParlaMint-UA_2013-07-02-m1.u274	May I put it to a vote? I'm betting on a motion by the chairman of the committee under Law 2130, technical remedies. Please vote. [[21:14:36]] For 279 Against-0, held-32, not a vote-57. Decision taken. The factions. A draft Law is being considered. [[B in m in s a l in]] You want to break the law? And I don't want to break the law. A draft Act (No. 2217a) on the introduction of amendments to the Ukrainian Act on the State Budget for Ukraine 2013 is under consideration (for the payment of the work of academic and pedagogical workers involved in external independent evaluation). How do we view it? Short-term procedure? Please vote. [[21:15:41]] For a hundred and Against 66, held 55, not voted 110. Decision taken. Reported to the Head of the Committee on Budget Affairs, Hüller Evgeny Borisovich.
ParlaMint-UA_2013-07-02-m1.u275	Dear Volodymyr Vasilovich, distinguished national deputies and invited! Allow me to present the draft law as the author and also to express the Committee's position on the budget. The implementation of the bill is intended to ensure that salaries are paid in full and in a timely and timely manner to scientific and pedagogical workers involved in external independent evaluation. The drafting of the bill is based on the need for a solution to the issue raised, which has been repeatedly noted by the Committee on Science and Education, and by the Ministry of Education. In view of the above, it is proposed to increase the expenditure of the general budget of the Ministry of Education’s general budget by an external evaluation budget of 6.8 million dollars. Such expenses provide solely for the payment of the work. The bill is balanced by an increase in the same amount, according to the general fund of the planned revenue of the state budget from other non-taxable revenues. Minfin has no objection to the source. The budget committee at its meeting on June 19 discussed the draft bill. I note that several bills to amend the State Budget Act 2013 will need to clarify the budget figures in the bill, in line with the changes adopted by the Supreme Council prior to the consideration of the bill. The Chief Scientific and Expert Office believes that a balanced decision on the bill requires an expert opinion from the government. The Ministry of Finance considers the adoption of the bill to be appropriate. As a result of the Committee’s consideration, it decided to recommend a bill under registration number 2217a as a result of the first reading adopted as a basis and as a whole as a bill taking into account the committee’s proposals.
ParlaMint-UA_2013-07-02-m1.u276	Finish up.
ParlaMint-UA_2013-07-02-m1.u277	The Budget Committee, together with the Chief Legal Authority of the Supreme Council, should then make the necessary editorial and technical clarifications to the text and addenda of the bill. Please support the decision of the Committee on Budgetary Questions. Thank you for your attention.
ParlaMint-UA_2013-07-02-m1.u278	Thank you. Have a seat. Do you want to talk about it? Yes. Please sign up for factions. Where do we have the Rudzkov People's Deputy? Where? He's made a big mistake. Let him come here. Come here, please. The Faryon Freedom Union.
ParlaMint-UA_2013-07-02-m1.u279	Dear colleagues, it is very important for us to vote on this bill in the context that external independent evaluation is really the only way to stop today's corruption in the education system. And that means that we have to provide funding for that. That's the first context of the problem. The second context of the problem is that there is now a law on higher education than the authorities, which narrows down the system of independent testing. This means that if we now support its financial base, we will, to some extent, ensure its duration and development further. Please support this bill as one way of developing higher education.
ParlaMint-UA_2013-07-02-m1.u280	Oneshenko's? The faction of the Party of the Regions, the national MP of the Paraskov.
ParlaMint-UA_2013-07-02-m1.u281	Please give the floor to my colleague, Žuravsky.
ParlaMint-UA_2013-07-02-m1.u282	You are. There he goes, here he shouts.
ParlaMint-UA_2013-07-02-m1.u283	Dear colleagues, it's about paying people to do external independent evaluation. And it's really a waste of corruption in education. It's not about the big money, I'm calling on the MPs to support this bill. Thank you.
ParlaMint-UA_2013-07-02-m1.u284	I beg of you, National Deputy Tomenko, Fatherland faction.
ParlaMint-UA_2013-07-02-m1.u285	Ladies and gentlemen, I wanted to point out that, according to our bad tradition, when it comes to allocating funds, there are people's deputies, not government. So I'm wondering why, on June 6, when actually the external testing system was approaching the end, it came to the conclusion that there was nothing to pay for these people working in this system? We need the minister of education to come, we have a great expert, one, as the Party of Regions says, the most brilliant, intellectual of ministers, and explained how the preparation of the NDA was planned, if there was no money to pay people. I am therefore convinced that such bills should be passed by the government and reported to the ministers. Second position. And what happened to the noble ministry, that today all media outlets, read the Komsomol Truth study, tells us that the website of the Ukrainian Center for Quality Assessment of Education hangs in the middle of the day. And parents spend the night with the kids to break into this site that we've been funding for a few years in such a way that we can't get information and file documents. So unfortunately, I wouldn't overestimate the contribution of the ministry that made the big revolution. Thank God they didn't vote on the Bill of the Party of Regions to hold the introductory exams. So we're going to vote for these funds, but we're going to demand that the Ministry of Education here report and inform, why do they fail to prepare for external testing one more time, why don't people get the money so we don't vote? And why can't you once again get in touch with the means of communication that the Ministry of Education is responsible for? A disgrace from the attack of preparation and we will vote for people who would not be held hostage to this test.
ParlaMint-UA_2013-07-02-m1.u286	Thank you. Mikola Rudzkowski, bring the card of Oneshchenka here. Hand me over here. The word is given to the People’s Deputy Kaplan. Hand over the card.
ParlaMint-UA_2013-07-02-m1.u287	Please pass the word to Rostislav Pavlenko.
ParlaMint-UA_2013-07-02-m1.u288	Pass it, pass it here.
ParlaMint-UA_2013-07-02-m1.u289	Rostislav Pavlenko, Vitaly Klitschka Faction. Dear Vladimir Vasilovich, distinguished colleagues, the strike faction will vote in favour of this bill as an exception. Because, in fact, we have people hostageing how the government is planning its expenses. And unfortunately, there are so many questions about this situation. So there are two very important warnings. First of all, we're still waiting for the government to make complex changes to the budget, not to dissipate a few million there and a few million there, but to make complex changes that would answer the questions about the risks that there are. And the second question. That's what happens when first they fool themselves with cloudy projections of macroeconomic indicators, then they believe it themselves, then they put it into the government budget, and then they have to put holes in it. It is therefore the responsibility of the government, in the next budget of such things, to avoid, to monitor. Thank you.
ParlaMint-UA_2013-07-02-m1.u290	The discussion is over. I'm betting on a bill of law (No. 2217a). Sit down, get ready to vote, don't run. 2217a, amending the Ukrainian Act on the State Budget for Ukraine 2013 (to pay for the work of academic and pedagogical workers involved in external independent evaluation) for adoption as a basis and as a whole. Please vote. [[21:25:38]] For 340. Against 0. Hold on to 0. They didn't vote 33. Decision taken. The factions. Everyone voted very friendlyly. A draft Act (2245a) on the amendment of Appendix No. 3 to the Ukrainian Act on the State Budget for Ukraine 2013 is under consideration (as regards the redistribution of expenditure from the Ministry of Foreign Affairs). How is it considered? I'd like to make a brief vote. [[21:26:27]] For-189 Against it is 69. Hold on to five. We didn't vote, 108. Decision taken. The factions. Reports the head of the Committee on Budget Affairs, Eugeny Borisovich Geller. Please.
ParlaMint-UA_2013-07-02-m1.u291	Thank you. Dear Vladimir Vasilovich, distinguished national deputies and invited! Allow me to present the bill as co-author and to express the Committee's position on the budget. The implementation of the bill should ensure that urgent arrangements are made for the activities of the Ministry of Foreign Affairs’ central apparatus in part of the payment of communications services, the maintenance of public buildings, the maintenance of software, the maintenance of current and capital repairs, and the reconstruction of the premises of administrators. The drafting of the bill is based on the need to resolve the issues raised, as the Ministry has repeatedly pointed out in its statements. The budget committee at its meeting on June 19 discussed the draft bill. The bill provides for the redistribution of public budget expenditure between budgetary programmes within the overall range of budgetary assignments established by the Ministry of Foreign Affairs without changing the general expenditure rates of the State Budget. Yes, it is proposed by the budgetary programme that the management and administration of the public policy on external relations increase the expenditure of the general budget by 6 million dollars in the same amount of consumption expenditure under the separate budget programme of the Ministry. I note that, in view of the current plenary week's consideration of some of the bills amending the State Budget 2013 Act, there will be a need to clarify the budget figures in the bill in accordance with the changes adopted by the Supreme Council before considering the bill. The Chief Scientific and Expert Office believes that a balanced decision on the bill requires an expert opinion from the government. The Ministry of Finance supports the adoption of the bill. As a result of the review, the committee decided to recommend to the Supreme Council a bill under registration number 2245a as a result of a first reading review to adopt as a basis and as a whole as a law taking into account the committee's proposals for the bill. Then the Committee on Budget Affairs.
ParlaMint-UA_2013-07-02-m1.u292	Finish up.
ParlaMint-UA_2013-07-02-m1.u293	The Budget Committee, together with the Chief Legal Authority of the Supreme Council in drafting such a bill, is then required to provide the necessary editorial and technical legal clarification in addition to the bill. Please support the Committee's decision on budgetary matters. Thank you for your attention.
ParlaMint-UA_2013-07-02-m1.u294	May I put it to a vote? [[B in m in s a l in]] No, it's not. Please sign up for factions. Please, faction of the Party of the Regions, National MP Smithyuch.
ParlaMint-UA_2013-07-02-m1.u295	Dear Vladimir Vasilovich! Dear National Deputies! The Ministry of Foreign Affairs is one of many numbered ministries that are in our state. Accordingly, the tasks that are now in the process of integrating Ukraine into world space are very large and very important. And to ignore the technical provision of this property, which is financed in a very measurable way, in the future, I think it's pointless or at all a threat to national security. You know what kind of scandal is now happening from the United States of America and the European Union and Japan in terms of protecting information. Because if someone thinks that the world is so peaceful, so kind and not so concerned about its security or its interests, I think these people are wrong. In my opinion, in today's information space, the thesis goes, I would say, the third world war is based on the principle that whoever owns the information owns the world. And our country, as a young nation, should have and maintain such a large group that should be provided with modern media and communications, need to pay attention. Most of you, I hope, who is abroad, are definitely visiting our consular and embassy institutions. And I'm surprised that there are ten-year-old devices in those services that don't just match the technical level anymore, and they don't match any technical condition that has protected anyone's interest in the information plan. So I think that one question is that these costs need to be redistributed and given the opportunity to have any impact on the current situation, but at the same time, I'm also going to the budget committee, and I'm going to go to the Ministry of Foreign Affairs, and the Ministry of Finance, which we have to contribute to some future budget, but.
ParlaMint-UA_2013-07-02-m1.u296	Freedom Union, National Deputy of Cherniaków.
ParlaMint-UA_2013-07-02-m1.u297	Please pass the word to Andrew Illenka.
ParlaMint-UA_2013-07-02-m1.u298	Please, Andrew Illenka.
ParlaMint-UA_2013-07-02-m1.u299	Andrew Illenko, faction of the All-Ukrainian Freedom Union, city of Kiev. Dear colleagues, of course, the situation with the work of our consular institutions abroad is extremely complex, and reform needs to be radical, not just cosmetic changes. In particular, I would like to point out that the human resources of our diplomats are being used very unreasonably. Because in some countries where there are very few Ukrainian citizens, there are huge dilapidated states, and in those countries where there are hundreds of thousands of Ukrainian workers, there is a catastrophic shortage of Ukrainian employees in Ukrainian embassies, consulates that do not allow them to serve them properly. So we really need to approach some rationalization, some deep systemic reform. With regard to the proposed draft law, I would like to say the following. What is being suggested is to withdraw funds from, in particular, such a very important direction as actual citizen documentation and information security. So essentially, that's exactly what's really missing in the work of our representation abroad. So we have to talk, first of all, about what these funds are going for. And they go for, for example, repairs to the administrative buildings of the Ministry of Internal Affairs, which are in Kiev by the way. So in fact, in the service of our citizens abroad, it has a very far-reaching relationship. Therefore, honourable colleagues, the faction of the All-Ukrainian Freedom Association on this issue will be maintained. Thank you.
ParlaMint-UA_2013-07-02-m1.u300	It's Vitaly Call's Faction. People's Deputy Capplin. People's MP Rosenko. Please.
ParlaMint-UA_2013-07-02-m1.u301	Please pass the word to Paul Rosenko.
ParlaMint-UA_2013-07-02-m1.u302	Paul Rosenco, Vitaly Caller's Faction. Well, the general rhetoric about how our diplomatic institutions lack funds is, of course, this rhetoric of hearing is totally positive, because it really is. But when we open the bill itself and the explanatory note to it, we're looking at where the redistribution of funding is actually going in the proposed legislative proposal. And what we read. Not to pay for the work of our diplomats, it turns out, to pay for the work of rebuilding the protocol block of the Ministry's building, to pay for the capital repair of the roof in the administration of the Ministry, to pay for the capital repair of the terrace and the water system in the administrative building of the Ministry on the street of Great Zitomirska. Colleagues — What World Do You Live in? And you've been in your constituencies for a long time, and you've been going to rural schools and to field and obstetric points that are now unfunded. Today, the State Treasury has blocked all payments. Today is the summer season when schools and medical facilities can perform repairs. They don't miss a penny of treasury today. Our teachers went on vacations without pay or vacation. And you're spending money on repairing the U.S. Department of Foreign Affairs. So, excuse me, can we talk about the fact that we are a state institution of the Supreme Council of Ukraine that cares about people? No, it's not. Today, those who vote for this offer will think about the comfort of officials. And you won't think about our people. So once again, we insist that what needs to be done is complex. And we're voting for this bill.
ParlaMint-UA_2013-07-02-m1.u303	Please, the Fatherland faction, the national MP, Mikola Tomenko.
ParlaMint-UA_2013-07-02-m1.u304	Dear colleagues, I'm drawing your attention again, and I think we're going to live to see the ministers walk and the government ask for money from the budget of the Ukrainian people to repair buildings or the water system. Because it is once again a contempt for Parliament and a contempt for the organization of work. There are many people who have apparently not read the law and told how good it will be for diplomats and consulates. We don't get a penny from our employees in embassies, indemnities and diplomatic institutions. Who of you was abroad knows that already wages with delays they receive and walk, look for our entrepreneurs of some friendly people and say, "Friends, we have such foreign policy in Ukraine that the government said to us, "Go, look for money, get married to conduct Ukrainian foreign policy." So maybe this is where the government came in, the minister said, "Maybe it's a special foreign policy to not give money to Ukrainian diplomats who can protect people's rights and freedoms, protect those we insultly say to employees because they earn us?" By the way, we've made a brilliant decision at the suggestion of most parliament that tomorrow, 130 people from abroad come and discuss how to protect the rights of those workers, because it's billions of dollars that go into the budget for those who work abroad. And since no one wanted to work next week or next week, we are now going to have a spare room where the Party of Regions was once meeting for a back-up session, that's where they're going to discuss the fate of Ukraine's foreign policy. Here, friends are offering to repair the roof. The roof doesn't flow into the Ministry, the roof runs in the Ukrainian authorities, we shouldn't consider such laws.
ParlaMint-UA_2013-07-02-m1.u305	discussion is over. People's deputies, please prepare for the vote. I'm betting on a draft Act (No. 2245a) amending Appendix 3 to the Ukrainian Act on the State Budget for Ukraine for 2013 (on the redistribution of expenditure from the Ministry of Foreign Affairs) for adoption as a basis. Please vote. [[B in m in s a l in]] Please vote on the basis. [[21:39:08]] For 249 Against-9, held-56, no vote-50. Decision taken. The factions. Can I put it all together? [[B in m in s a l in]] And you have voices that everyone is so friendly that you say, "Come on!"? I am voting on the draft Act (2245a) amending Appendix 3 to the Ukrainian Act on the State Budget for Ukraine for 2013 (for the redistribution of the Ministry of Foreign Affairs) for adoption as a whole. Please vote. [[21:40:15]] For 225 What's the matter? Listen to me, and you don't listen. Against 12, held - 68, not voted - 57. The decision is not taken. Honorable National MPs. The factions. Ladies and gentlemen, we've all worked very hard together today, so I think we'll finish this. Tomorrow at 10 o'clock, we'll continue our work. The evening session of the Supreme Council of Ukraine is closed. To reconcile the issues that all factions have. Thank you. Thank you.
