ParlaMint-UA_2013-05-23-m1.u1	Dear National Deputies! I want to close the morning session of the Supreme Council of Ukraine so that we can look at the issues we have. And I'd like the National Deputies to prepare for registration. Turn on the "Race" system. [[16:04:06]] There were 357 national deputies registered in the hall. I'm asking the People's Deputy Mohnik, a minute, to formulate the questions that are. And then I'll give it to you. Please specifically, what a question.
ParlaMint-UA_2013-05-23-m1.u2	Andrew Mohnik, All-Ukrainian Freedom Union. Dear colleagues! During the vote in favour of the candidature of the Georgian People's MP Demiscan voted in favour of, it seems, Yuri Ivanyushchenka. There's a photograph, there's a video. We can imagine it all. Therefore, in accordance with the Rules, this issue needs to be put to the vote again. Thank you.
ParlaMint-UA_2013-05-23-m1.u3	Where's the regulatory committee? Read the laws. I asked everyone to vote in person. I beg you, Peter Simonenko, a minute.
ParlaMint-UA_2013-05-23-m1.u4	Simonenko, the Communist faction. Dear Vladimir Vasilovich! Dear colleagues! The Company faction insists that we consider it. When in the vote for the draft Ordinance on the establishment of a temporary special commission to investigate the events of May 18, it was not taken into account either by my own or by the proposals of other deputies who made specific proposals for content. I insist, Volodymyr Vasilovich, that the position of the faction that meets the requirements of the current Rules, which is the Law of Ukraine, has been taken into account. And this Rules stipulates that if there is a remark to the draft decree and they are not immediately defined in the voting room, and so on, they are not included or considered in relation to the draft regulation, then the draft decree or the law is sent for second reading. For preparation directly on the committee, taking into account all thoughts. I insist once again that this vote is not real.
ParlaMint-UA_2013-05-23-m1.u5	National Deputy Sas.
ParlaMint-UA_2013-05-23-m1.u6	Thank you. National Deputy Sas, Fatherland. Vladimir Vasilovich, this is what I'm listening to, and the words of Shevchenk come to mind: "And the day is coming, and the night is coming, and when I take my head in my hand, I wonder why the apostle of truth and science does not go." Look what just happened. If a member of parliament is referring to a violation of the requirements of the Rules, the article, part of the article, should be called. And just to show that something's written in there. A rule is a law that includes certain rules and regulations. So I would like to remind a respected colleague that there is a 138th article that defines the specificity of the Supreme Council of Ukraine’s decisions. That's the first one. It's different. The decision not to create a special commission was just made by a colleague, but by a temporary investigator.
ParlaMint-UA_2013-05-23-m1.u7	Finish up.
ParlaMint-UA_2013-05-23-m1.u8	And the decision to create a temporary commission of inquiry is made, and we have no right to go back to that question. Thank you.
ParlaMint-UA_2013-05-23-m1.u9	Ladies and gentlemen, I ask you all to sit down, and I will put you to a vote, a rating vote for the candidature of George Victoria Volodymyrna. Yeah, right? I ask the MPs to prepare for the vote. Not ready to vote. Please, Miroshnichenko, a minute. Prepare for the vote, Your Honor.
ParlaMint-UA_2013-05-23-m1.u10	Ladies and gentlemen, I would like to weigh your attention, because an extremely important question will now be taken up in the session room, and the honourable Head of the Supreme Council has ignored our desire to hear all the candidates. I would very much ask that the candidate mentioned, whose appointment as a member of the Nacradia would be voted on, still came out, and we asked her a few questions. This is an extremely important position. And if she does. I want to point out that on the committee we heard 11 out of 12 representatives and candidates. Mrs. Georgievska, except as I said before, she's a secretary of the press, and politically engaged, Peter Simonck, she hasn't worked for five years in the proper positions. It significantly violates another article of the law, since it does not know the national language, which is a requirement for government officials to do so. So I'd like us to hear it so we can ask her a question. And the hall wasn't identified with a cat in a bag.
ParlaMint-UA_2013-05-23-m1.u11	Let's vote on how much can we consider? I say again, don't pull hands, we'll vote. Ladies and gentlemen, Deputy Mohnik raised the question that the vote was not personal. According to the Rules, we need to vote in favour of the Georgia Victoria Volodymyrna. So get ready, sit down. I'm betting on the vote, the Georgia Victoria Volodymyrna rating vote. Please vote. [[16:11:26]] For 203 Let's see the factions. Ladies and gentlemen, I ask your attention, we are about to proceed to the final vote. And the first vote will be the vote of the candidature of Georgiev Victoria Volodymyrna, who received the largest number of votes in the process of voting. That's why. Have you prepared for the vote? I'm voting on the proposal to appoint a member of the National Television and Radio Board, George's Victoria Volodymyr. People's deputies, please vote. [[16:12:53]] For 209 Against 87, held – 11, not voted – 69. The decision is not taken. The factions. Yes, we had a second run, 145 votes, 145 votes won by Northern Alexander Volodymyrovich. I am voting for a proposal to appoint a member of the National Television and Radio Board of the North, Alexander Volodymyrovich. Please vote. [[16:14:07]] For 134 Against 7, held – 31, not voted – 205. The decision is not taken. The factions. Yes. Next comes Osaulenko Taras Volodymyrovich. I am voting on the proposal to appoint a member of the National Television and Radio Board, Osaulenko Taras Volodymirovich. Please vote. [[16:14:54]] For 128 Against 16, held 36, not voted 196. The decision is not taken. The factions. Let's move on. Kurt Konstantin Semenović – 137 votes. I am voting on the proposal to appoint a member of the National Council for Television and Radio. Please vote. [[16:15:36.]] For 132 Against 14, held – 37, not voted – 198. The decision is not taken. Let's go. Nabrusko Viktor Ivanovich. I am voting on the proposal to appoint a member of the National Council for Television and Radio. Nabrusko Viktor Ivanovich, repeat. Please vote. [[16:16:15.]] For-137 Against 12, held – 34, not voted – 199. The decision is not taken. The factions. Who's next? 69. A vote is taken on the proposal to appoint a member of the National Television and Radio Board, Kalinick Mikhailovich. People's deputies, please vote. [[16:16:56]] For-65 Against 12, held-97, not 209. The decision is not taken. I am voting on the proposal to appoint a member of the National Television and Radio Board, Krainjak Yuri Olegovich. Please vote. [[16:17:29]] For-63 I am betting on the vote by Pashuk Vladimir Petrovich on the appointment of a member of the National Council for Television and Radio. Please vote. [[16:17:57]] For-24 Against-24, held 117, not voted 236. The decision is not taken. I'm standing by Zadir Hennady Alexanderovich for the appointment of a member of the National Council for Television and Radio. Please vote. [[B in m in s a l in]] [[16:18:21]] For -6 What, he's gonna put it on the vote? [[B in m in s a l in]] I bet there are two more candidates, Valentin Mikhailovich, who is appointed as a member of the National Council for Television and Radio. Please vote. [[16:18:54]] For -8 The decision is not taken. Against-9, it's 134. Next. And I'm voting for the appointment of a member of the National Television and Radio Board, Sokurus Vitaliyovich. Please vote. [[16:19:26]] For -6 Against – 11, held – 140, not voted – 227. The decision is not taken. What faction voted? Can I see it? Here's the Fatherland party. The proposal to consider, let's move on, and then we'll look at the proposals. The draft Resolution on Parliamentary Hearings on "Strategy for the Development of National Radio Space by 2015" is being considered, as a matter of fact, (September 2013). And, Mikola Tomenko, please now you have a chance to say.
ParlaMint-UA_2013-05-23-m1.u12	Dear colleagues! A brief summary of the preliminary consideration of the question so that we can understand how we move forward. So today's discussion of the appointment of a candidate for the National Council ended unsuccessfully. In accordance with current legislation, we are announcing a new competition in the newspaper Voice of Ukraine and we are conducting a new procedure. As a result of this, I have a strong request, further away, when we prepare candidates, we see, friends, that candidates who represent either political forces or specific political parties do not find support in the session room. We need to consult and offer people who represent authoritative public organizations and are popular with journalists and have an independent professional position. Now with regard to the present decision. I'll remind you, when did this decision come about? When we discussed the situation of the National Council. And then our colleagues from the Party of the Regions, from the opposition faction, pointed out that we did not see the strategy and understanding of Ukraine in the area of television and radio? And in order to understand and demand from the Nacradia, from the Derteradio, from other institutions what they have to do, we have to define a strategy. I've already mentioned that the last meeting of the National Security and Information Policy Council was in 2008. We've conducted your task, friends, committee hearings, parliamentary hearings, and we've seen that committee hearings on the introduction of digital language standards are insufficient, but we've made previous, very serious conclusions. For example, experts have noted that today the tariffs set by the monopoly of Zeonbud for district and central television companies for digital language, which is not yet physically available, are five times higher. The vast majority of companies are unable to pay this kind of tariff because it actually leads to its destruction. The second position that has been clarified is that more than 150 regional television companies have not been licensed for digital language today and it is not clear what their fate will be after 2005. And the saddest conclusion that we've come to is that experts who, according to the National Council's decision, are involved in the development of multiplexes and digital language infrastructures have not been able to convince us that they are capable of covering the entire territory of Ukraine with a digital voice signal. And this is the most dangerous thing. We're on a committee today, looking at this issue, we're building a whole range of decisions, and we're convinced that without the President, the National Security and Defence Council, international experts, the experience of European countries that go to digital language standards, we can stay in a position of travel. For example, Croatia moved in stages. She divided the country into a single number of regions, and she went: first one region, she looked at what coverage of digital language and analogs had been excluded in one region, then another, and went away until the whole country was covered. Other countries acted in such a way that, realizing that such a financial burden all radio and television organizations were unable to deliver, they made it possible to switch to digital language for a transitional period. So there's a lot of things that we would have to discuss and at the level of the state. The same situation and we would like to listen at parliamentary hearings to all the public authorities in part of what lies ahead with the network of national radio. I would like to emphasize once again, because of the privatization of Shrimp and the absence of a state programme to support live language, today I can point out that, let's say, in a year, we don't have one-and-a-half wires, as it were, to a communication tool. Today, the order of a million and a half million households receive live speech. The outcome, to our conviction, is only one, as long as there are debates about digital radio, and yet in Europe, no one has introduced it, and no one can really say how fast we can go to digital radio, an alternative to just one -- FM-range. So the National Council might have to, by a decision of the PNB, calculate together, and we have to, for the national radio company SD-1, Change, Cultures, eventually broadcast the meetings of the Supreme Council, when we discuss issues, the whole country should be able to access this information in the FM-range.
ParlaMint-UA_2013-05-23-m1.u13	Finish up.
ParlaMint-UA_2013-05-23-m1.u14	Therefore, respectable colleagues.
ParlaMint-UA_2013-05-23-m1.u15	Finish up.
ParlaMint-UA_2013-05-23-m1.u16	Therefore, honourable colleagues, there is a request.
ParlaMint-UA_2013-05-23-m1.u17	Your Honor, you didn't give me any suggestions for a reduced procedure, you're four minutes. It's all done. Then I'll put it to the vote as we discuss it. If the parliamentary hearings are over, we'll talk for two hours, we'll go a long way. I would like to place a brief vote on draft Decree 2859, please vote. Vote, vote, go. May I? I'll tell you. Mikola Volodymyrovich, I have not yet revealed the question, and he has already begun, and I have not interrupted him. [[16:26:40]] For 158. I didn't stop him. And I gave him four minutes because he's making an offer. It's okay. Igor, it's okay. Don't argue with me. Let's make an offer and we'll discuss it.
ParlaMint-UA_2013-05-23-m1.u18	Dear colleagues! In order to find compromise and have a serious professional discussion -- you see how I supported the Chief of the Supreme Council -- I believe that in a short procedure we will be able to agree on a decision to hold parliamentary hearings in September of this year. Thank you.
ParlaMint-UA_2013-05-23-m1.u19	I'm asking you to sign up for factions. Please, the Freedom Union, the Martinks.
ParlaMint-UA_2013-05-23-m1.u20	Please pass the word to Igor Miroshnichenko.
ParlaMint-UA_2013-05-23-m1.u21	Please, Igor Miroshnichenko. Two minutes, please.
ParlaMint-UA_2013-05-23-m1.u22	Deputies! Dear Ukrainians! I would like to stress once again that the information space in Ukraine today is completely denationalized, de-Ukrainenized, totally enlarged and de-deologicalized by the propaganda of the neighbouring country. This means that we have all the signs of the occupied information space in Ukraine, and that's why we have to look at this in Parliament. Question number two. Today, thanks to the monopolization of the introduction of digital language in Ukraine by 2015 by a private company called Zeonbud, which is registered in offshore areas, it caused huge financial losses to the state. The activities of this company, which is now building multiplexes based on the State RRT Company, are causing damage. Most importantly, it put the company's activities at risk of introducing digital language and fulfilling Ukraine's commitments under the Geneva-2006 Convention. Today, the constitutional right of all Ukrainian citizens to receive information without hindrance is at stake because digital language is not being introduced in 2015. The coverage of digital language in Ukraine today does not exceed 60 percent. There are other questions, a series of questions. In particular, because of the activities of this company, Zeonbud has become a regional language. I have dozens of references from regional companies on the Zacarpatta, on the Sumen. Mr. Suhi said that there are problems with regional speech in Zaporozhye. Because the activities of Zeonbud simply destroy this regional language. They're not ready to pull those tariffs. Today, Nakrad's work has led us to have licenses and radio frequencies in the Fm range sold for a lot of money. And today the National Radio Company of Ukraine, which is applying to receive radio frequencies in the Fm range, is not winning even where.
ParlaMint-UA_2013-05-23-m1.u23	Finish up.
ParlaMint-UA_2013-05-23-m1.u24	I didn't win even where I was the only contestant! Think about it! A company that is kept at the expense of taxpayers is moving back to the benefit of private companies. That is why we need to consider this in the Supreme Council. Please support this decision. Thank you.
ParlaMint-UA_2013-05-23-m1.u25	The Fatherland faction, National Deputy Brichenko. And I beg you, Rules! Two minutes is over, that's it.
ParlaMint-UA_2013-05-23-m1.u26	Please give the word to Mikola Knieżick.
ParlaMint-UA_2013-05-23-m1.u27	Please, Princess.
ParlaMint-UA_2013-05-23-m1.u28	Dear National Deputies! Today, at a meeting of the Committee on Freedom of Speech and Media, we discussed, among other things, a government bill on transparency of media property. In addition to this, a group of national MPs submitted a parallel bill, including me. In addition, there will be several more bills before our Parliament. I'm now addressing the majority MPs. Helen Bondarenko spoke here yesterday morning and spoke about the Audiovisual Services Act, which is being developed by a number of public organizations, with the support of experts from the Council of Europe, under the guidance and organization of the same Helen Bondarenko, your colleague. We need to discuss this situation. There's a whole series of other legislative acts that are currently under discussion in the committee, and they're going to go into the hall, because that's the requirement of our European partners, once again, to sign an association agreement. Digital television is an extremely important question. You will realize that in 2015, when Ukraine has to turn off digital television, 40 percent of the population in Ukraine will be left without television at all. It's a social issue, it's a political issue. Today, national channels are unable to pay for the radio service of Zeonbud because they are indeed extremely high tariffs. The situation at the RTT concert, the radio and television concerts, is indeed critical. There is no longer a leader there for a long time. The concert is on the verge of bankruptcy and it has no professional authority in general. Once again, members of the opposition factions know this situation. I'm talking to the majority deputies. Mr. Kiwalov is standing. We talked to you about the catastrophic state of digital television in Odessa. Mr. Suhiy spoke of Zaporozhye. Let's talk about this set of questions here at the hearings. Because in 2015, if the majority of the population of Ukraine before the presidential elections are left without a TV signal, no matter what the oligarchs who own Zeonbud, who are there, I don't know, Horoshkowski, Ahmedov, don't discuss it right now. We'll get to it anyway. We don't mind one or the other. We need to make a consolidated decision that will allow us to sign an association agreement and provide the population with television. Thank you.
ParlaMint-UA_2013-05-23-m1.u29	The Vitaly Klitschka faction, Paul Rosenko.
ParlaMint-UA_2013-05-23-m1.u30	Please pass the word to Irina Heratchenko.
ParlaMint-UA_2013-05-23-m1.u31	Turn on Irina Heratchenko's microphone.
ParlaMint-UA_2013-05-23-m1.u32	The strike faction, Irina Heratchenko. Dear colleagues, our faction would very much like these hearings to be constructive. We can all diagnose the current information space in Ukraine, and we know its shortcomings. But it is very important that, in the conclusion of these hearings, the Council then accepts those recommendations that will help make our radio space more European. And in this context, a few specific proposals. The first is to Mr. Speaker. Vladimir Vasilovich, we'd like to see you next. It's not normal, really, that we have Nazrad understaffed, and for the first time, we have a situation in the Supreme Council, where there is no representative, I don't say, opposition factions, namely social organizations. Please, it would be very appropriate for you, under your wise guidance, to participate in the High Council's profile committee, to meet and accept this agreed-upon candidate and the sessional hall, and the public organizations, and the journalists that we would support here, to complete the Supreme Council, and to show that as the Supreme Council, we respect journalists, that there should be a man, not from political parties, but from public organizations. That would be a plus for us to move towards European integration, which would be appreciated by both the session hall and the journalists. We ask you to do this to all the colleagues who are journalists in this room, and our strike faction. I also want to inform the session room that the two committees have agreed, the Committee on European Integration and the Committee on Freedom of Speech, to hold committee hearings in July on the formation of the State Programme on Euro-integration, which we then want to pass on to the government to take account of both the budgetary process and in our next year's programme so that we can have such a programme. Because it's not normal that 90 percent of Ukrainians don't know what the European Union is to help them. And our faction sees these hearings so constructive, so good that we can talk there.
ParlaMint-UA_2013-05-23-m1.u33	Faction of the Ukrainian Company, Simonenko Peter Mikolaiovich.
ParlaMint-UA_2013-05-23-m1.u34	Dear colleagues, I'd like to ask our voters today first to understand what we're talking about here in this room. Once again, business leaders are not talking about the information space of Ukraine, not about protecting national interests, but about who will be, using this information space in new technologies, digital television, profit and income. And they are not interested in the human soul, but they are interested in the future of Ukraine because of the upbringing of our young people. And in our view, the view of the Communists is primarily a problem that really threatens the national security of Ukraine. I'd like to remind some people here, so let's say who's speaking with enthusiasm, that when Yushchenka's orange team was in power, 70 percent of all licenses were issued by the National Television and Radio Council to those who supported the orange team. I want to remind you, colleagues, that you don't forget, and who did you make the only provider when you gave up the multiplex? Maybe it wasn't your colleague, Baloga, and UCTN, huh? Did you forget what you were doing? Then you went out of your mind when, let's say, you looked at this information space and you took everything. This company couldn't handle it. The threat of national security was that the radio frequency was not used, and the Europe to which you draw was banning Ukraine from using frequencies that were not used. You're actually a pity and a disaster for the people of Ukraine today. You're doing terrible things because only the mouth has revealed everything that the people of Ukraine have, and there's nothing you can do. So the faction of the Company insists that the information space needs to be converted immediately into state property and excluded from the possibility of a powerful business today, capturing the information space, turning the people of Ukraine into morons, as all of this is done. Bo.
ParlaMint-UA_2013-05-23-m1.u35	Finish up.
ParlaMint-UA_2013-05-23-m1.u36	The Ukrainian language was forgotten on Ukrainian television. There's no Ukrainian cinema. At the Long Island Film Studio, you're the nationalists. You forgot that the Long Island Garden was planted there. They destroyed all that they had, had the people of Ukraine. So once again, on behalf of the Company faction, I insist that we urgently review the public information space policy at all, because not only will we be in trouble with you, who has taken and split, but most importantly, we will lose the prospect of Ukraine's development because of the upbringing of our young people. Thank you.
ParlaMint-UA_2013-05-23-m1.u37	Anna Herman, please. Region Party
ParlaMint-UA_2013-05-23-m1.u38	Friends, parliamentary hearings on this issue, could be the idea of such parliamentary hearings, could be supported. But television isn't a door. It is easy to remove the door from the curtain or break it down, and the problem that we speak about requires professional, literate approaches. Judging from the way those who know how to make a good shot of the door came out here, I became convinced that there would be no professional television talk in this room. There'll be propaganda, there'll be screams, there'll be banal phrases, there'll be speeches. As it happened at the parliamentary hearings on the occasion of the preparations for the 200th anniversary of Shevchenk. There was no design. There was no professional conversation. And there were no results. Because there are problems in television, I propose that we gather good experts from the world.
ParlaMint-UA_2013-05-23-m1.u39	Finish up.
ParlaMint-UA_2013-05-23-m1.u40	I propose to gather good European experts, including Ukrainians, and to hold committee hearings that would produce really professional approaches to solving the problems we face. Thank you for your attention.
ParlaMint-UA_2013-05-23-m1.u41	The discussion is over. I am voting on the draft Resolution (2859) on Parliamentary Hearings: "Strategy for the Development of National Radio Space by 2015". To be conducted in September 2013 and accepted as a basis and as a whole. Please vote. [[16:40:53]] For 180. Against – 1, held – 31, did not vote - 183. The decision is not taken. The factions. The draft Decree (No.2501) on parliamentary hearings on the effects of pension reform and the ways of reforming the pension system is introduced. To be held in November. I'm betting on the vote cut, the discussion on the shorter procedure. [[16:41:42]] For 158. Against-93, held-11, didn't vote 136. Decision taken. As reported by Rosenko, Paul Valeriyovich.
ParlaMint-UA_2013-05-23-m1.u42	Dear Mr. Head! Dear National Deputies! Thank you for being able to express yourself on this matter. It's obvious that we're here almost every day in Parliament, from our jobs we're talking about the pension system and the consequences of pension reform. To sum up all the conclusions, such a theistic analysis of this reform can be made. Today, the average pension payout in Ukraine is a thousand and four hundred dollars. It's the lowest amount of pensions in the post-Radians space. Three million Ukrainians are now receiving pensions of less than 1,000 dollars. More than 80 percent of Ukrainian pensioners are outside the poverty line. On the other hand, state budget grants to the Pension Fund today record the entire history of independence -- 83 billion dollars. According to the latest data, 50 billion owes the Pension Fund to the Treasury. Everyone seems to understand perfectly, and the reformers themselves are also aware that the pension reform has failed to carry out its mission – it has not improved the welfare of citizens and has not brought the state finances in order. But it's another concern, nobody in this room, I'm sure, doesn't know or understand what Ukraine's waiting for in the retirement future. We have a new minister six months ago. What did you hear from her specifically about the consequences of retirement, and the next steps, about pension reform? Absolutely nothing. Here is the new information: The National Institute for Strategic Research at the President of Ukraine proposes to consider the next phase of pension reform and to raise the retirement age for Ukrainians in 2025 to 64 years, and in 2035 to 68 years, I understand what is going on.
ParlaMint-UA_2013-05-23-m1.u43	Finish up.
ParlaMint-UA_2013-05-23-m1.u44	I understand that the authorities are already preparing scientific justification for further pension reform. Ladies and gentlemen of the People's Party of the Regions, look where you're being taken today, you're being asked to vote for bills, and tomorrow you're going to be asked to increase your retirement age by eight years for Ukrainians. So please, let's stop. On behalf of the Impact faction, we propose to design, stop and discuss the consequences, namely the future of the Ukrainian pension system. I ask you very much to support our decision.
ParlaMint-UA_2013-05-23-m1.u45	Thank you. The report is headed by the Committee on Pensioners, Veterans and Disabled Persons, Valeriy Mihajlovich Suškević. Please turn on the microphone.
ParlaMint-UA_2013-05-23-m1.u46	Thank you, Volodymyr Vasilovich! Dear colleagues! Please note the initiative of two national deputies, colleagues Rosenka and Kunicina, to hold parliamentary hearings on "The Consequences of Pension Reform and the Ways of Reforming the Pension System". Our committee has considered this issue and agrees with the authors of the legislative initiative on the existence of many complex problems in the functioning of the pension system after its reform. Has this reform taken place? In particular, the Committee notes the low level of pension insurance, the deepening of the pension budget deficit, not enough, but in fact not the differentiation of pension rates depending on the length of service and salary, and the huge imbalance in pension size, not the modernisation of pensions, the dependency of pension on the date when it is assigned. In doing so, the committee notes the preservation of privileged special pension conditions for individual pensioners of social injustice. And all of this makes it absolutely necessary to discuss and analyse the problems of the pension system, the consequences of pension reform and the further real reform of the pension system. At the same time, the Committee notes that in less than two years since the adoption of the Pension Reform Act, there is a situation that external factors, the relevant factors of the pension system, the tinning of wages, unemployment, the forced departure of hundreds of thousands of Ukrainians abroad to work and other essential factors of the pension system have not been reflected in the government's actions. It's a committee of questions.
ParlaMint-UA_2013-05-23-m1.u47	Complete your offer.
ParlaMint-UA_2013-05-23-m1.u48	The Committee on Rules of Procedure and MP ethics noted that it was necessary to change the date of parliamentary hearings in this bill. Yesterday, when we considered this bill, our committee agreed that it was necessary to support this decision in the first reading and in general, by changing the date of the parliamentary hearings to November of this year so that we could actually consider and systematically consider all that concerns the consequences of pension reform and the ways of reform. Please support as a whole.
ParlaMint-UA_2013-05-23-m1.u49	Please sign up for the discussion. "Freedom," Martinks.
ParlaMint-UA_2013-05-23-m1.u50	Please pass the word to Edward Leon.
ParlaMint-UA_2013-05-23-m1.u51	Pass it on, please. Leonov, please.
ParlaMint-UA_2013-05-23-m1.u52	Edward Leonov, All-Ukrainian Freedom Union, Autonomous Republic of Crimea, Sevastopol. Respectable citizens, respected Ukrainians, distinguished national MPs! Today we are no longer at the edge of the gap, today we are flying into this chasm, a chasm called the "effects of the so-called "pension reform". The victims of pension reform were more than 10 million Ukrainian citizens, each Ukrainian family being affected. Millions of Ukrainians and Ukrainians who are no longer able to stand up for themselves, who cannot provide for themselves, who have given their whole life and health to the Ukrainian State, the former Soviet Union, with you, their children, and their grandchildren, and we cannot properly repay them for their fine work, for their conscientious lives. Ladies and gentlemen, we need to discuss in the session room, listen to the Minister of Social Policy for her to be here. We're not talking about red convertibles. We're not talking about cat skins. And to tell you how she's going to pull out of the collapse of the pension system in Ukraine right now. The All-Ukrainian Union "Freedom" has absolutely concrete proposals for further improvement, so-called, pension reform. The first improvement should be to completely eliminate the disgraceful pension reform that women have rejected, to reject men beyond survival, because Ukrainian men do not live to be retired. And the government is doing everything it can to make sure that Ukrainian women no longer live up to a pension that at least now lives a little more than men. Because what happens to Ukrainian women cannot be called life. A Ukrainian woman devoted her whole life to her children, giving her whole life to her family. And now that she's getting close to her retirement home, she's being dumped on that panel again.
ParlaMint-UA_2013-05-23-m1.u53	Fatherland, National Deputy Bondarenko.
ParlaMint-UA_2013-05-23-m1.u54	Please pass the word to Andrew Pavlovski.
ParlaMint-UA_2013-05-23-m1.u55	Paul’s People’s Deputy
ParlaMint-UA_2013-05-23-m1.u56	Dear fellow countrymen, dear colleagues! Andrey Pavlovsky, "Fatherland" faction. We must conduct these parliamentary hearings about the consequences of pension reform and the ways of further reform. the ways of further reform, because, in fact, now and in the press, according to previous speakers, Janukovic and his Administration plan to raise the retirement age of Ukrainians to 68 years. That is, raising the retirement age for women for five years and military officials for five years, ten-thirty for all Ukrainians of minimum employment to receive those pitiful pensions that can't even be called pensions. This is not enough for them, they continue to abuse people. Or thousands of dollars are enough for the millions of Ukrainians who receive this pension. Our working pensioners, Azarov and Yanukovic, who receive, besides their huge wages, business dividends, and huge pensions, would have tried for a thousand dollars. Therefore, these parliamentary hearings must be conducted because problems cannot be solved, the really serious problems of the Pension Fund, the budget deficit of the Pension Fund at the expense of the pensioners themselves or those who soon become pensioners. And why is this inhuman attitude towards our older generation, which has been hard to gain from these wealths, built these factories that have now "privatized" the oligarchs and made these enterprises stand for a penny. They hide their profits in offshors so they don't pay a penny to the Pension Fund. All of this is a question, and all of this can be discussed. And we need to talk about it because there are other ways of implementing pension reform. The government's job is to increase the number of jobs, increase wages and then increase wages, and increase the Pension Fund, increase the pension fund, and then this problem will be solved naturally, not like that.
ParlaMint-UA_2013-05-23-m1.u57	Party of regions. People's deputy Stoyan.
ParlaMint-UA_2013-05-23-m1.u58	Dear colleagues! Of course, the retirement provision of our fellow countrymen is very important. But what I'm saying is that this reform that started in 2011 has no bearing on the current pensioners. And she didn't get any better. I didn't make their lives any worse, maybe I didn't even make it any better. But I'm surprised when they're proposing the "effects of pension reform." What is the effect when a pension reform is only a year and a half? It's scheduled for 2020. If it had been completed, then the consequences could have been mentioned. Perhaps we should have asked questions about the progress of pension reform, problems, shortcomings? This is one moment. One second. Well, my dear colleague from Strike, I respect him, and I don't want to call him the name, the deputy head of the committee. Well, why are you afraid of fellow countrymen who are already proposing a project that plans to increase their internship by eight more years?Oh, my God! There's no such thing! I am part of a working group that includes Tihypco and other colleagues. And we're working very hard right now, really, to make adjustments to pension reform. I can tell you what the problem is. Yeah, we really need to figure out the age of retirement for women. But when they say women are waiting today, they can't wait to retire, so I want to tell you. After retirement, 70 percent of women continue to work. We need to look at this problem. One second. Of course, we need to see if we're in some kind of rush with the insurance train, raising it to 30 years. Maybe we should take a step - by - step insurance course, as was suggested in the Vladimir Litwin project? Third moment. Of course, respectable colleagues, the wage replacement factor. Today, most citizens in Ukraine receive a pension of 45-50 percent, depending on their internships. And high - level and other government officials get 70 percent. We have to look at this problem. And to say that the pension reform needs to be abolished. That's why we're against spending.
ParlaMint-UA_2013-05-23-m1.u59	The Ukrainian Company, the People's Deputy of Spirin. Please, Peter Mikolaiovich Simonenko.
ParlaMint-UA_2013-05-23-m1.u60	Dear voters! Speaking to you today, I would like to draw your attention to the fact that, first of all, rather than talking about what we are going to be discussing at parliamentary hearings, the Supreme Council should be defined in the principles of reforming pension reform. I mean, give an answer to who's getting the pension reform done? And the answer is known today. It is carried out in the interests of the oligarchs, not the laborers. That's the first one. Next. We must remember with you today again, and who has agreed to carry out this pension reform, and who has made a commitment to Europe — the International Monetary Fund — to raise the pension age and to carry out this pension reform? Yushchenko, Timoshenko, was signed and, without any right, Jacinyuk. This is who signed these letters, making a commitment to raise the retirement age for Ukrainian citizens. Next. Again today, I would like to suggest that we do not engage in conversation, but consider a specific programme that will ensure pension reform for the benefit of the laborers. What we think we need to do first is, of course, cancel the pension reform. I'm reminding you again who failed the pension reform. The representatives of both the B.U.T. and the B.S.A. have just failed. Next. We need to urgently adopt the Competitive Program for the Development of Ukrainian Productive Forces, and which should first and foremost address the creation of new jobs. This hard control of wage levels and the timely payment of wages, i.e. the adoption of our draft law, which provides for the penalty of 0.5 percent per day of late pay. Next. Of course, only then will pension reform have a positive effect when the state exercises strict control over prices and tariffs. And, of course, that's the only time we'll be.
ParlaMint-UA_2013-05-23-m1.u61	Finish up.
ParlaMint-UA_2013-05-23-m1.u62	Only then will we be able to benefit from the pension reform when we return to the state property of the basic industry. This is the kind of policy that needs to be built on a future pension reform. Everything else is just a chat. Thank you.
ParlaMint-UA_2013-05-23-m1.u63	Kaplin, national deputy from Strike, one minute.
ParlaMint-UA_2013-05-23-m1.u64	In fact, much is being said about fascists and anti - Fascists for a long time. So I'd like to tell the Ukrainians that they know they're supporting this thesis. Real fascism was the adoption of this pension reform. And the only real fascists in this country are the government of Azarov, who introduced it and proposed it. Because as maniacs, they slowly kill our pensioners, raising the retirement age for women. And I know that. And you know very well that the strike faction has prepared and introduced a wonderful bill of 2072 by the author of the reporter Rosenk, our colleague who solves this problem. And the only way out of this pension collapse is really: the breakup of the Party of Regions and Communists, one of them is leading corruption, the other is smuggling. And when we stop this, there will be money to raise pensions and save the lives of our pensioners. Thank you.
ParlaMint-UA_2013-05-23-m1.u65	It's a post-faction can. Wait a minute.
ParlaMint-UA_2013-05-23-m1.u66	Oleg Lazko, Radical Party. I think that for all of Ukrainian society, the devastating, disastrous consequences of this so-called pension reform, which is really not reform, but genocide of millions of Ukrainian citizens. Thanks to some, including those who sit here, authors, parents, and mothers of this reform, millions of people receive monetary pensions, and they receive 20,000, 30,000, or 30,000, of their pensions, including those who today cry out about what a bad reform is. If it's so bad, why are you getting 20,000 pensions from Communist deputies, pensioners? Give up your 20,000 pensions, give your 20,000 pensions to ordinary people, and then pour crocodile tears on them. So parliamentary hearings must be, pension reform must be cancelled, a party of regions away from the social and political life of our native Ukraine!
ParlaMint-UA_2013-05-23-m1.u67	I bet. Don't touch each other, you're turning into lines. From yelling: give me a line. Do you have a replica, too? [[B in m in s a l in]] Please, a minute of Jacinyuk's lineup and a minute of Simonenko's lineup. And we make decisions. And then I'll give you a song.
ParlaMint-UA_2013-05-23-m1.u68	The answer to the Communist laborer of the Eminent Front. First. He said that the IMF is in Europe. Geography was badly taught, and the IMF is in Washington, U.S.A. The U.S. dollars are printed there, sir. These printed dollars go to Kiev. A party of regions takes these dollars and pays you for your vote. [[Applause]] And in response to those who have adopted pension reform, with memory bad, we need to draw attention to this issue. The pension reform was adopted by the government of Mikola Janović Azarova, who twice received beautiful red-powered support from the Communist Party as prime minister of Ukraine. The retirement age raised is Communists.
ParlaMint-UA_2013-05-23-m1.u69	I'm asking for a line, Simonenko.
ParlaMint-UA_2013-05-23-m1.u70	Simonenko, the Communist faction. Well, my colleague or opponent knows exactly where he is, because the sister is just a citizen of the United States, so let's say he knows better. Let's put it this way. Next. Speaking of where this reform came from, really, including Yatzenuk, who had no right, signed a letter of appeal to the International Monetary Fund to raise the rate of retirement age. And that's well known to everyone. Well, as to what's going on with us in the Supreme Council, well, he knows well, let's say, because it's what he's always doing and he lives by it. That's his trouble. Like "hit" MPs, some of those who speak, I want to answer the same. There is a need to fight where they produce results, it is meant - it is of particular benefit to the people of Ukraine, not because you are trying to explain your inaction today by translating your political responsibility on the shoulders of others.
ParlaMint-UA_2013-05-23-m1.u71	The discussion is over. I'm voting on the draft Decree (Registration No. 2501) on parliamentary hearings on the effect of pension reform and ways of reforming the pension system. To be held in November. For adoption as a basis and as a whole. Please vote. [[17:03:43]] For-179 Against - 1, held - 32, did not vote - 182. The decision is not taken. One minute, German. I'll give you a minute, please.
ParlaMint-UA_2013-05-23-m1.u72	Mr. Head, I have, I'm sorry, but it's a very delicate question. Could I ask you to ask Arsenius Petrovich to throw out the gum before performing. This is a great humiliation to the electorate.
ParlaMint-UA_2013-05-23-m1.u73	I'm sure I'll ask Deputy Yatsenuk to stop. Rosenko. Rosenko.
ParlaMint-UA_2013-05-23-m1.u74	Paul Rosenco, Vitaly Caller's Faction. Well, colleagues from the Party of Regions, my address to you. I understand when you vote against the abolition of pension reform. That's what your president does, that's what your government does, that's what you're talking about. You don't want to admit your mistakes. But listen, speak and speak out against the deliberations of the Supreme Council of Ukraine of the future 46 million Ukrainians -- well, that's a shame. Well, you're not initiating anything, and you're not supporting anyone else. And you're driving yourself into a corner that you can't get out of. It's just a shame that you're jamming people's mouths and you don't want to think about all the 46 million Ukrainians who are retired today and will retire in the future. You see, this is the destructive and anti-national activity of your faction.
ParlaMint-UA_2013-05-23-m1.u75	Dear MPs, no replicas. We're moving on. We are considering the inclusion in the agenda of the Act on Amendments to certain laws on industrial parks (2589). Please, it's not written here, the author is in charge: the head of the Committee of the European Union, Yuri Mikolaiovich. Please. What's your name?
ParlaMint-UA_2013-05-23-m1.u76	Please pass the word to Gorokhov.
ParlaMint-UA_2013-05-23-m1.u77	National Deputy Gorokhov, please. I don't know everyone yet. National Deputy Gorokhov, please. Please, please.
ParlaMint-UA_2013-05-23-m1.u78	Yes, I do. Faction of the Party of the Regions, 105 constituency, Lugansk City. [[B in m in s a l in]] I am the author of this bill, and I ask the distinguished Vladimir Vasiljevic, distinguished colleagues, not to include him in the sessional room this week. Thank you.
ParlaMint-UA_2013-05-23-m1.u79	Copy that. Well, that's it. Yes, let us move on to the second reading. The draft Law on Amendments to Article 265 of the Ukrainian Tax Code on Real Estate Objects (No. 24050) is under consideration. And I give the floor to the head of the Committee on Tax and Customs Policy, Vitaly Yuriovich Homutinik.
ParlaMint-UA_2013-05-23-m1.u80	Dear Volodymyr Vasilovich, dear colleagues! A comparative table to Bill 2405, completed for second reading, was considered by the Committee of the Supreme on Tax and Customs Policy. The bill received 24 proposals from national deputies, 23 of whom were counted, one was rejected. With regard to the principal proposals that were discussed at the committee meeting and agreed upon regarding housing objects, I would like to highlight the problem that was solved in the second reading by the national deputy, Gordijenko, and other national deputies of the committee. Today, a property tax of 120 square feet [120 sq m] from the living area of the apartment and 240 square feet [240 sq m] from the house is taxed. But today’s current standards say that this benefit refers only to one object. I mean, if you have two apartments, like 20 meters, then one apartment falls under the mortgage regime, and the other you have to pay the property tax anyway. This problem in this second-reading bill is solved in such a way that regardless of how many apartments or houses you have, a 120-square-meter pay per apartment and 240 per house is calculated from the calculation of the total area that is owned by one person or another. In addition, the defined categories of benefits that do not pay real estate taxes to this list have been added: children with disabilities who are raised by single mothers, low-security families who are recognized in accordance with the law. Taking into account these suggestions and other suggestions made by the national MPs who have been submitted to the bill, the committee recommends that the bill be adopted in a second reading and in general.
ParlaMint-UA_2013-05-23-m1.u81	The Sharov People's Deputy, the amendment. Do you have a question? Copy that. Counted. Then prepare for the vote. This second reading was one amendment and I put it to a vote. I am voting on draft law No. 2405 amending article 265 of the Ukrainian Tax Code on Real Estate Objects, as the Committee introduces for adoption in the second reading and in general. Please vote. [[B in m in s a l in]] [[17:11:31]] For 217 As voted, show me! For – 217, against – 26, held – 8, not voted – 113. The decision is not taken. Factions: Region Party - 175, Fatherland - 0, Vitalia Klicka - 0, Freedom - 0, Company - 30, non-fractional - 12. One minute, National Deputy Tuggnibok.
ParlaMint-UA_2013-05-23-m1.u82	National deputies of Ukraine! I'd like to say a few words of procedure. So this is one of those bills that was voted in the first reading in the Bank during that so-called "travel session." The agreement that we had last week, why these bills were passed this week, that these bills, which were supposed to be voted in the first reading in the Bank, should be voted in the first reading and then in the second. So since this agreement has been broken, our faction and faction of our partners will not participate at all in voting on those laws, although, in fact, in some of the bills that are being put forward today, which is five out of eight, for example, the Freedom faction could vote positively. Vladimir Vasilovich, please execute our agreement and report that these bills are being voted on, including in the first reading. Otherwise, we don't vote or vote, and these bills are legally worthless.
ParlaMint-UA_2013-05-23-m1.u83	Honorable National MPs. Ladies and gentlemen, let's make arrangements to hear all the factions, I'll take these questions off. Let's wait in factions and look at it. And now I'd like to take a look at the appointment of the local elections, and I'd like to ask for the chairman of the committee of Zwania.
ParlaMint-UA_2013-05-23-m1.u84	Honourable National Deputies, the Committee on State Building and Local Self-Government at its March and April 2013 meetings, considered in general 43 issues of individual local councils regarding the appointment of out-of-court elections in 33 rural, six rural and four urban heads in connection with the suspension of their term of office. In accordance with article 79 of the Ukrainian Law on Local Self-Government in Ukraine, the reasons for the early termination of these heads are as follows: in connection with a personal application to the appropriate council on the establishment of powers of the head, 32 cases; in connection with the acquisition of legal power, the indictments against the head are two cases; in response to the decision of the appropriate council, three cases; in connection with the death of the head, six cases. The relevant draft regulations were registered at the Supreme Council of Ukraine. Regarding draft regulations with registration number 1201-133 - 1201-159, which were discussed at the April 17, 2013, meeting. The Committee, in line with the laws on local self-government in Ukraine and on local elections, adopted a decision recommending that the Supreme Council of Ukraine appoint individual rural, rural and urban heads on October 27, 2013. In doing so, I would like to draw your attention to the decision taken by the committee on the projects that were considered at the meeting of the Committee on 20 March 2013 unanimously: recommending the Supreme Council of Ukraine to appoint individual rural, rural and urban heads on Sunday, 2 June 2013. These draft regulations have registration number 1201-117 - 1201-132. However, taking into account the untimely consideration of these draft regulations in the session hall, taking into account the requirements of the Ukrainian Law on Local Elections. According to the part of the first article 15, which provides for out - of - turn local elections. The Supreme Council of Ukraine is not later than 60 days before the election day. At its meeting on May 15, this year, the Committee decided to recommend to the Supreme Council of Ukraine the consideration of draft regulations with registration numbers: 1201-117, 1201-130. Change the date of the out-of-order local elections proposed in these projects "on June 2, 2013" to October 27, 2013. You've been given the right materials. Please support the committee's decision. Please note, too, that draft decrees have been made for the consideration of the Parliament by the people’s deputies for the appointment of the electorate of Mikolai and Hersonian city heads, which is scheduled to appoint the election of these heads on July 28, 2013. Therefore, the question of the election of the Mycolayian and Hersonian city heads is to be considered separately. We have in principle a committee decision that decided that all the elections in this package were scheduled for October 27th, except for those projects that were proposed by the alternative bills submitted by the people's deputies. That's why we're proposing all the elections, except for Nicholas and Herson, to be scheduled for October 27th, and the elections in Nicholas and Herson to be appointed as well as at the request of the people's deputies, are meant by their decision, July 28, 2013. Then the decrees that were handed down in principle by the people’s deputies were annulled. That's why we can vote virtually everyone with one pack. All relevant decisions have been taken by the committee. It's all up to you. It's up to you. Thank you.
ParlaMint-UA_2013-05-23-m1.u85	I'd like you to sign up for the factions. Party of regions. Who? Party of regions, Chechetov.
ParlaMint-UA_2013-05-23-m1.u86	Dear Vladimir Vasilevich! Dear colleagues! I think the rapporteur has made it very clear and clear. There's nothing to discuss here. We just have to put it to a vote and vote and move on. Thank you.
ParlaMint-UA_2013-05-23-m1.u87	I didn't hear anything. They'll be here in a minute. Got it. Please, Martinyuk, the Communist faction.
ParlaMint-UA_2013-05-23-m1.u88	Martinyuk, faction of the Communist Party of Ukraine. Thank you, Vladimir Vasilovich. Dear Vladimir Vasilovich! The Honourable Head of the Committee! Do not do what this Supreme Council has never done. Let's stick to the basic law anyway. Never, under any circumstances, have we voted or have the right to vote in a package for all the elections.
ParlaMint-UA_2013-05-23-m1.u89	No, it's not. No, no.
ParlaMint-UA_2013-05-23-m1.u90	I'm sorry. Then you must be. Or I didn't hear it, or.
ParlaMint-UA_2013-05-23-m1.u91	I'll put each place separately.
ParlaMint-UA_2013-05-23-m1.u92	Then there are no questions. Another offer. Another offer. I would like to be heard by those who support our decisions. The Communist faction stands ready to support the holding of the election in the city of Mikolayev, if those factions who want to do so support the holding of the elections in Hersson. We state our position. Thank you.
ParlaMint-UA_2013-05-23-m1.u93	Shall we vote? [[B in m in s a l in]] Please, Fatherland, Bondarenko.
ParlaMint-UA_2013-05-23-m1.u94	Dear friends! I would like to point out that during the committee's consideration of these issues, we have pointed out that holding elections in Nicholas and Herson during the summer period is virtually impossible. Because there will be no people there. So the committee made a decision when all the members of the committee were there to hold the elections all together on October 27 in all the villages, cities, villages, including Nicholas and Herson. I'm handing over the rest of the rules to Knazevitch.
ParlaMint-UA_2013-05-23-m1.u95	Ladies and gentlemen, it's impossible to do so. I can't hear them. Now that they're tired, I'm gonna close the session and everything. That's impossible. You won't let me listen to who's speaking. Who's taking the word from the strike party? Please turn it on.
ParlaMint-UA_2013-05-23-m1.u96	National MP Novak, turn on the microphone.
ParlaMint-UA_2013-05-23-m1.u97	Everyone's on, thank you. Dear Chairman, Honourable David Vajaevich, the point is that we are today practicing the politics of double standards. And we've noticed on the committee, we've stressed whether we're all holding elections in the fall of October 27th, or we're holding elections in the summer. The thing is, there's an expulsion today, and there's also a trade. It's an ultimatum: if you vote for Herson, we vote for the Santa Claus. So we can also put an ultimatum: let's vote Kiev. Why is there no city head in Kiev for almost a year, and we do not vote in Kiev? And after Nicholas's head is gone, we immediately put the election to the vote. So we are in charge of all the elections on October 27th, or the elections in July in all the cities.
ParlaMint-UA_2013-05-23-m1.u98	Please answer the question, now the factions are asking questions. Please answer.
ParlaMint-UA_2013-05-23-m1.u99	We've looked at the decision on the committee today, I've told you four times. In view of the fact that, unfortunately, these decisions were not considered in the sessional Supreme Council Hall on time, these elections have already been scheduled five times. And there's a different approach where urban elites want to run elections in the summer and who doesn't want to. It's our responsibility to the national MPs that they haven't made the election yet in their seats, it's our fault, so there's no speculation here. The committee also made decisions on Kiev. Excuse me, this is a question in the hall. the committee, so everyone votes as they see fit.
ParlaMint-UA_2013-05-23-m1.u100	Freedom faction, who? Any questions for the reporter? Orphan, national MP.
ParlaMint-UA_2013-05-23-m1.u101	Oleg Orotyuk, faction of the All-Ukrainian Freedom Union. First of all, I'd like to say that on the committee, we've considered twice the election decrees in Herson and Nicholas. And in one of the last sessions, we decided on the October elections, and now the position on the committee has changed. But we want to emphasize the position of the faction of the All-U.S. Freedom Union. We believe that the elections that we appoint have some legitimacy that provides for the proper appearance of voters in the polling stations. We can't talk about the fact that in July in Santa Claus and in Herson there will be more than 10 percent voter turnout. And there can be no mayor, a city head of a district center with a minimum appearance that will have no legitimacy. So when we talk about elections, let's make choices that are legitimate. And when it comes to the July elections, let us not forget the city of Kiev, where the Chinese likewise demand that the elections be held for a longer period of time. Thank you.
ParlaMint-UA_2013-05-23-m1.u102	Thank you for your observation. There's a reason why. No one can blame the committee for the election on any political grounds. We voted several times, and you as a member of the committee too, for the election, and we went on a single date. But there were two decrees of the people’s deputies from the Mikolai region and the national deputies from the Herson region who offered to spend their summers. The committee received a request from all branches of government, referred to by Mikolayev, because there is a reason why Mr. Teaka's mayor died. And he was a very bright man and a very bright mayor. So that's why there's no political motive here today. In the city of Mikolayev, there is no problem in the city of Mikolayev in the summer, since all the Santas are resting in Mikolayev. It's a resort zone. So I'm sorry, this is not a matter of summer time in Nicholas and in Herson. This is in other regions. And each region is treated by the committee with the specifics of the locals. local specification. The only date for the appointment.
ParlaMint-UA_2013-05-23-m1.u103	National MP Blackwolf. National MP Blackwolf.
ParlaMint-UA_2013-05-23-m1.u104	Dear Volodymira Vasilovich, the distinguished David Vajaevich, is the decree of the national deputy Tzarvolenka, Odarchenka, who was introduced a month ago. Four decisions are the next election of the head and Kyivrada, the next election of the head of Kyivrada, the heads of the head and the front of the Kyivrada, and the next election of the Kyivrada, and the heads of the heads. Anything that the Constitutional Court might have invented that you're so looking forward to. It is clear that we can appoint an extra election and choose the Kiev City Head and the Kiev City Council for two years. We can do this in two months. We can do June 28th, we can do October 27th. On June 2, however, Kyivrada’s authority ended. There's no city head. His duties are performed by one of the deputies, the secretary of the council. In a week we will leave the city of Kiev, the capital of Ukraine without any authority. We can't do that and say we don't know.
ParlaMint-UA_2013-05-23-m1.u105	Ladies and gentlemen, I see that the situation is that we will not make any decisions, so I declare the evening meeting of the Supreme Council of Ukraine closed. The faction leaders are requested to enter the office of the Chief of Staff of the Supreme Council. Tomorrow at 10 o'clock, we'll continue our work.
