ParlaMint-UA_2013-04-02-m1.u1	Ladies and gentlemen, we continue to work. I'm asking you to sit down, calm down. And let's go to chapter two. The draft decree is being considered. Ladies and gentlemen, I ask the national deputies to prepare for registration. Turn on the "Race" system. [[16:03:41]] There were 365 national deputies registered in the hall. Let's get back to work. The draft Decree (Registration 1030) on the appointment of alternate members of the Kiev City Council and the Kiev City Head is being considered. Who will report from the committee? The head of the committee is sick, who reports from the committee? Please. Please. The word is given to the first deputy head of the committee of the People’s Deputy Mikhailenko.
ParlaMint-UA_2013-04-02-m1.u2	Dear colleagues! The draft Decision on the appointment of alternate members of the Kiev City Council and the Kiev City Head (registration number 1030) (authors of the Ukrainian National Deputies Klitschko, Kovalczuk, Karpuntsov) was adopted by Parliament on March 21st. The Committee on State Building and Local Self - Government had been entrusted with the task of developing a draft regulation that took into account proposals and amendments to the legislative initiative, shortening the deadline for making such proposals and amending them by half and bringing them up to date for consideration by the Supreme Council of Ukraine on second reading. During the adoption of the decision on the adoption of the draft decision on the basis of the chairman of the plenary session of the Supreme Council of Ukraine on March 21, 2013, the date of consideration of the draft was not set for the second reading session hall. The short term, 7 days, came on March 28th to make suggestions and amendments. No amendments were made to the committee. The Committee on State Building and Local Self - Government planned to consider the draft decree at its meeting tomorrow, which was April 3. Thank you.
ParlaMint-UA_2013-04-02-m1.u3	Thank you. How will we discuss the matter? [[B in m in s a l in]] According to the Rules, it's a full program. [[B in m in s a l in]] Please sign up for the question procedure. Vitaly Klitschka Faction, Bilkova.
ParlaMint-UA_2013-04-02-m1.u4	Please pass the word to Rosenku.
ParlaMint-UA_2013-04-02-m1.u5	Pass it on, please.
ParlaMint-UA_2013-04-02-m1.u6	The impact faction determines the urgent need for today's decision on the elections in Kiev, both the city's head and the Kiyevrada deputies. That is why we propose a thorough discussion of this issue, and a complete process of discussing and determining today's election date for the Kiev City Council and the mayor of Kiev.
ParlaMint-UA_2013-04-02-m1.u7	Thank you. Party of regions, Smith.
ParlaMint-UA_2013-04-02-m1.u8	Dear Vladimir Vasilovich, I think we know that question. Everyone has long discussed this issue on a number of occasions in this Council and outside the Council. We need to be determined by the Supreme Council. So I think we can also consider this by a reduced procedure. But at the same time, I'm informing you that the Constitutional Court has taken up these materials, where it will be determined in a closer way. But this is for consideration by the Supreme Council. If the Supreme Council makes another decision, we will act according to law. And so I propose a reduced procedure. Thank you.
ParlaMint-UA_2013-04-02-m1.u9	The faction of the Company of Ukraine, Gordijenko.
ParlaMint-UA_2013-04-02-m1.u10	Sergei Gordijenko, faction of the Ukrainian Company, Poltavščina. First of all, I got a call the day before lunch. One student from Poltava. Their delegation took the bus to Kiev at 11 p.m. to take care of the Supreme Council of Ukraine. And the student asks me, "Dear Sergey Volodymyrovich, tell me, when will we consider voting for the Kiev elections to give us 200 dollars, and we'll go home sooner?".. [[B in m in s a l in]] That's why I'm getting my attention. These are the kiews that come out here and call for elections. Please count the children of Poltava, drive them quite far home, and let them go. The faction of the Company of Ukraine will support this particular draft decision. Thank you.
ParlaMint-UA_2013-04-02-m1.u11	The Fatherland faction. Knazevitch, please.
ParlaMint-UA_2013-04-02-m1.u12	Dear colleagues, what was scheduled for the committee meeting tomorrow, I think it's just a deliberate attempt to mislead us again. The point is that today is the last day in line with the Local Elections Act. If we don't make a decision today as a whole, the June 2 election won't take place. And so now, given that there is a problem with the Rules. You know that according to the Rules, decisions take effect from the time they are adopted in the Hall, unless otherwise provided by a decree. Regrettably, the authors of the decree envisioned a different order for it to become effective, from the time it was published. And by taking the opportunity, I'm addressing the authors of the decrees. It's been in the hands of the Supreme Council for a long time. If they agree, we can now make changes to the ruling by vote and decide that from our moment of voting, this ruling will take effect. This will give us the opportunity to hold elections and the mayor of Kiev and Kyivrada on June 2. We cannot expect a decision by the Constitutional Court because it has nothing to do with Kiev, it applies to all elections in Ukraine. There has been no such thing as a denial of the Constitutional Court by its decision.
ParlaMint-UA_2013-04-02-m1.u13	Let me finish.
ParlaMint-UA_2013-04-02-m1.u14	made it impossible for the Supreme Council to carry out its constitutional duty. Thank you.
ParlaMint-UA_2013-04-02-m1.u15	The Freedom Union. We've got one more minute of motive. Leonov.
ParlaMint-UA_2013-04-02-m1.u16	Please pass the word to Igor Schweitz.
ParlaMint-UA_2013-04-02-m1.u17	Surrender the word to Switzerland.
ParlaMint-UA_2013-04-02-m1.u18	Dear Mr. Head, honourable deputies! First of all, I would like to point out that, according to the Rules, I would like to remind you, as a deputy head of the Rules Committee, that there is no need to put questions to the vote on the full procedure. I would like to assure you of such a mistake in the future. With regard to the reduced procedure, the Supreme Council adopts similar decisions, and the full procedure is applied on condition. Therefore, I would urge you to read the Rules carefully to avoid such violations. Regarding today’s decision. Elections in Kiev should be approved today. There is the will of the community that still awaits us under the walls of the Supreme Council, and that must be the will and responsibility of the national deputies. Glory to Ukraine.
ParlaMint-UA_2013-04-02-m1.u19	Honorable MPs are non-fractional. Vladimir Mikhailovich Litwin, please. Turn the microphone on in the stands.
ParlaMint-UA_2013-04-02-m1.u20	Dear Volodymyr Vasilovich, dear colleagues! We now have a cold - minded offer to make a decision with a hot heart. What do I mean, dear colleagues? The question has been raised from the legal plane, and it has become political. Especially when the faction leaders agreed and made the first strange decision to vote on the draft decision to establish a date for the elections in Kiev on a basis. I've already said, and I'll say it again, dear colleagues, with the same success, take the draft decree that May 9th is Victory Day. With the same success, make the decree that May 5 will be a great holiday — Easter. This is the first time. Second, dear colleagues! There is, among other things, a decision before the Constitutional Court. And I have the impression that, on the one hand, the opposition did not determine the only candidate, and the representatives of the ruling majority are not convinced of their candidate's victory. And you're dragging like a dog to a cockatoo, that's the problem, and you don't want to make a decision. So what you have to do.
ParlaMint-UA_2013-04-02-m1.u21	Let me finish.
ParlaMint-UA_2013-04-02-m1.u22	So we don't have to show up tonight for cock fights. Because in practice, that's the way I see it on the schedule of forces, it won't. Therefore, it is now necessary to take a decision to refer the Supreme Council to the Constitutional Court immediately following the signing of today's decision to reach its conclusion. [[B in m in s a l in]] Listen! Listen! Otherwise, respectable colleagues! Dear colleagues! Well, I'm not throwing a pearl at you, I'm telling you what to do. Then you listen. "Damn!" - you've adopted. But I do think that some people did not read those books and didn’t go to the library! Here you go, fellows of honor! We have to turn around, make a decision with the COP today. Questions from the hearing today will be deferred. Because it's going to fail. Go back to him in the next session! If you don't want to hear what you have to do. That's why it's an offer. No votes. To the Constitutional Court. For the next plenary week, or this plenary week. Then consider and take the decision of the Supreme Council, and choose your head. Otherwise, it's a process, not a decision. Thank you.
ParlaMint-UA_2013-04-02-m1.u23	Deputies! And, I see, there are willing speakers. Let's do another one so everyone can do the faction and one non-fractional act. And I'm going to put the question to the vote. Yeah? Do you have a deal? I'd like you to sign up for the factions. It's Vitaly Calla.
ParlaMint-UA_2013-04-02-m1.u24	Please pass the word to Karpuntsov.
ParlaMint-UA_2013-04-02-m1.u25	Please give it to Karpunts.
ParlaMint-UA_2013-04-02-m1.u26	Dear colleagues, journalists, invited citizens of Ukraine! The issue of the election of the Kiev City Head and the Kiev City Council should be decided in a legitimate constitutional manner. The legal constitutional method is the decision of the Supreme Council of Ukraine to take a decision and to appoint an election. As co-author of this decision, I support the proposal made by my colleague Knjazevich. If the question is in the Final Decisions, we delete them. And please, the decision on this is effective from the moment it's adopted, and we're on time. I ask you to support such an offer. Thank you.
ParlaMint-UA_2013-04-02-m1.u27	Look at you in the faction. One of Rosenko's people says, "Fill the program." The other one says, "Come with your colleague Knazevich." Take care of yourself. I didn't criticize you. Sit down. Gordijenko, faction of the Ukrainian Company.
ParlaMint-UA_2013-04-02-m1.u28	Sergei Gordijenko, faction of the Ukrainian Company, Poltavščina. There is no doubt that both councils and heads need to be held. And you have to put a dot on that. But there is no doubt that there are many constitutional and legal colossalities here, and it is necessary for the Constitutional Court to interpret many of the same positions, including the alternation or the election itself. It is evident that neither the so - called opposition nor the authorities during the time they registered the decree made any amendments that indicate that some fear neither the interested nor the others. I'm talking to the sneezes. We're going to vote and support, the Ukraine Company. But choose the kind of authority that would care for Kiev’s interests, not the derebent of land, municipal property, and budget. Local self - government should be strong. It is strong only when it does not give the earth.
ParlaMint-UA_2013-04-02-m1.u29	Freedom Union, Leonov.
ParlaMint-UA_2013-04-02-m1.u30	Please pass the word to Oleg Tuggnibok.
ParlaMint-UA_2013-04-02-m1.u31	Turn on the microphone for Oleg Pullibok.
ParlaMint-UA_2013-04-02-m1.u32	Oleg Tuggnibok, faction of the All-Ukrainian Freedom Union. Society, first, I want to address the Communists and the Party of the Regions. Stop digging in the bottom underpants of the opposition. Stop looking at the different versions of what the opposition there wants to do or will do. Whether he has the opposition of his candidate or has no candidate. What do you care? I officially state that the opposition forces are more than anyone interested in having these elections held. And the second. The Society is a direct norm of the Constitution of Ukraine – 141 articles, which clearly states: "The cost of city council powers is 5 years." On June 2, elections were scheduled for the Kiev City Council. Stop your speculation. Stop wasting time. We put it to a vote, we vote positive, we make the election in 2.
ParlaMint-UA_2013-04-02-m1.u33	The Fatherland faction, Jacinuk.
ParlaMint-UA_2013-04-02-m1.u34	First of all, those who are very interested and concerned about how the opposition will participate in the elections, we want to make a very clear statement. The opposition will put the only candidate in the mayor's office and we will win the post of city chief. And the opposition will put the only candidate in each district according to the principle of "one candidate is one district." And we're also going to take not just the majority, but the absolute majority in the Kiev City Council. And that's why the Party of Regions doesn't want to put that question to a vote. Dear Mr. Head, we're not going from empty to empty. Let's put it to a vote. You convince your faction that there is nothing to drag on, you have to make decisions. We are holding the election of Mayor Kiev, and before the vote on this issue, Mr. Chairman, I am asking you to take advantage of your right and ask for a vote. So first the signal vote, then.
ParlaMint-UA_2013-04-02-m1.u35	The last of the speaking factions is the faction of the Party of Regions, Olijnik. And we'll put it to a vote.
ParlaMint-UA_2013-04-02-m1.u36	Dear colleagues, the faction of the "for" Party of the City Heads and City Deputies in Kiev, but in a constitutional way. That there should be no violation of the Constitution, so that after the election all went to the courts and questioned the legitimacy and legitimacy of the elections themselves. Of course, all experts say that there is a legal conflict and that there is a need for a clear explanation to the Constitutional Court as to what we should do. But the truth is, if we do not change the Capital Law, we will essentially choose a virtual city head with limited powers. He's just going to be the father of the session and he's just going to represent the territorial community. I would like the city’s head to be strong and bring together both the city’s head and the government. That is why we urge the elections to pass.
ParlaMint-UA_2013-04-02-m1.u37	Let me finish.
ParlaMint-UA_2013-04-02-m1.u38	. The elections went through the Constitution and prevented citizens from violating the right to vote. Let's wait for the decision and take the election date in Kiev.
ParlaMint-UA_2013-04-02-m1.u39	Please prepare for the vote. Signal, there are no alternative solutions here. Please, Sass, the Fatherland faction.
ParlaMint-UA_2013-04-02-m1.u40	Thank you. Deputy Sas, Fatherland. Dear Vladimir Vasilovich, well, here at first we had a controversy about whether the bill was short or complete. The point is that you can consider the bill in short or full procedure only in the first reading, and the second one has its own procedure. As for the proposal made by Arsenius Petrovich. The point is that there is article 28 of the Rules, which defines the chairman’s right. And so we ask that you, as chairman, exercise your right and, in accordance with paragraph 11 of the first part, conduct a rating or signal vote to predict the results of the vote on the agenda, in this case, on the election decree of the Kiev Head and the Kiev Council. *** So we understand the importance of this question, and we can't keep putting that question down, so let's predict what the result will be. If it's positive, one thing, if it's negative, we'll think.
ParlaMint-UA_2013-04-02-m1.u41	We considered the matter yesterday and agreed to consider the decree and put it to a second reading and in general. So I'm putting to the vote the draft Decree (registration number 1030) on the appointment of alternate deputies of the Kiev City Council of the City of Kiev in second reading and in general. Please vote. [[B in m in s a l in]] [[16:25:34]] For 209 The results of the vote were – 209, against – 1, abstained – 77, did not vote – 119. The decision is not taken. [[B in m in s a l in]] Factions: Region Party 3, Fatherland 91, Vitalia Klicka, 41, Freedom Union 36, Ukraine Company 21, non-fractional 17. In accordance with part seven of article 51 of the Rules, at the request of two MP factions, they request a recess at a 30 - minute plenary meeting of the Supreme Council. Head of the deputy faction of Tajnibok and head of the deputy faction of Arsenius Yatsenuk I'm calling it a 30-minute break.
