ParlaMint-UA_2013-05-21-m0.u1	Invite the deputies to the session room. Good morning, distinguished national deputies, invited guests of the Supreme Council of Ukraine! People's deputies, please prepare for registration. Turn on the "Race" system. [[10:03:35]] A total of 377 national deputies were registered. The morning session of the Supreme Council of Ukraine is open. Today is the birthday of the national deputy Vitalia Semenovich Chugunikov. Let's say hello to him on his birthday. [[Applause]] To be announced in accordance with article 60 of the Supreme Council of Ukraine's Rules, it is reported that the interfractional "South of Ukraine" is being renamed "The Black Sea of Ukraine". This is national MP Opanaschenko. Ladies and gentlemen, I would like to inform you of the summary of the plenary work of the Supreme Council of Ukraine from 14 to 17 May 2013. There were six plenary meetings of the Supreme Council of Ukraine. 59 questions on the agenda have been considered. As a result of their consideration, 13 laws and 31 decrees were passed, 6 bills were passed on the basis, 2 bills were sent to the Committee to prepare for re-reading, one bill was returned to the subject of the law of the legislative initiative, 10 bills and 6 draft regulations were rejected. According to the President of Ukraine's proposals, one law is aimed at furthering the committee, and one law is rejected. Veto's not overtaken. And 298 MPs were announced, and they're already being sent to all the addressees. A statement has been made: we ask for a recess at the request of two factions – the deputy faction of the Party of the Regions and the deputy faction of the Communist Party of Ukraine to make a statement. Please, who's ready for the application? Please, Anna Mikolayevna Herman.
ParlaMint-UA_2013-05-21-m0.u2	Dear fellow national MPs, distinguished citizens of Ukraine, who can see and hear us at this moment. There are in the history of the world and Ukraine dates that are not spoken of loudly. But which are louder than any political statement, than any crack, than any provocation, and which force us to rise above the barriers. These dates include May 22 – the day of the burial of Taras Grigorovich Shevchenk. You know this story. On May 8, 1861, Taras Shevchenk’s body from St. Petersburg from Moscow’s station went to Ukraine. And Shevchenko drove to his home land for the last time by rail and by horse, and the people carried it on their hands. On May 20, he was sung from Kiev to Kanev by a steamboat, and on May 22, he was buried. I propose that the Supreme Council of Ukraine tomorrow at 9 a.m. together, without breaking up on a faction, without dividing itself into any political interests, and not paying attention to any provocations together, bowed down to Shevchenkov, placed flowers in Shevchenk's monument in Kiev. I'm asking for this particular opposition. I ask the opposition not to pay attention to those latest events. It's nothing you haven't managed to do, "Get up, Ukraine!" And that you failed to announce the only candidate. Don't pay any attention to that. [[B in m in s a l in]] The fact that you failed to announce a single candidate does not mean that you have to do some kind of provocative action, such as beating journalists to distract the attention to distract Ukraine from its failure. [[B in m in s a l in]] You've got everything ahead of you, you'll get your share. Maybe you can name the only candidate, everything will be. But There are things that make us rise above the barriers, and we ask you, in turn, to join us, with all Ukraine tomorrow to worship Shevchenko and to remember that Shevchenko said: "...in a free family, new and in a single Ukraine." I ask you again, don't consider failure, you've got it all ahead of you. Thank you.
ParlaMint-UA_2013-05-21-m0.u3	Everyone's already yelling, or does anyone else want to? Bondarenko, would you like to scream? Then scream.
ParlaMint-UA_2013-05-21-m0.u4	Where I put my word, no replicas, you have to work. What's your line?Oh, my God! What's that?Oh, my God! [[Applause]] Ladies and gentlemen, yesterday at the Conciliation Council. Don't scream! Yesterday at the Conciliation Council, we decided to listen to the information of the Minister of Internal Affairs of Ukraine, Vitaly Yuriovich Zacharychenk, about the events that took place during the mass events in Kiev, and not only in Kiev, on May 18, 2013. As agreed, I sent a letter to Vitaly Yuriovich Zacharychenk. He agreed to provide information on the events that took place on May 18. That's why there's an offer: to start working now, at 11:30 a.m., the minister will be in the session room and will do so at 11:30 a.m., and there will be an opportunity for MPs to ask a question. Now let's work for now. According to article 25 of the Rules on Tuesday, we have 30 minutes for statements by authorized members of the MPs with proposals, announcements, statements, messages. Therefore, I ask the factions to sign up for the performance. Please. The Vitalia Klitschka faction, People's Deputy Kaplin. Please, Vitaly Cliché. Please.
ParlaMint-UA_2013-05-21-m0.u5	Dear colleagues! The latest events that took place last Saturday show that, unfortunately, the authorities are not learning anything. Lying, butaphoric rallying, the use of fighters, fighting, provocation is the stability that the authorities will praise. Not surprisingly, two thirds of Ukrainian citizens are convinced that the country is moving in the wrong direction, and 80 percent of Ukrainians have never heard of improvement in their lives. Today, it is time to bring the blame for what is happening in the country — the trains that have spent hours under the burning sun; the cancelled flights, the thousands of citizens who have never been able to reach their destination because the authorities are afraid of their people; and the involvement of budgeters, students, and even children. Unfortunately, we have many questions that have not been answered, and we cannot answer them. At the shares that took place in Kiev, in the place where it was forbidden. Walking zone, how did military equipment get without license plates? Why can't the police answer who took part in the fights? Journalists have already given a clear answer: Who, as they call it, lives where they live? And we don't have an answer for today. We need to create a temporary commission of inquiry that will study the facts and present to the law enforcement authorities the evidence base. Dear National Deputies! We have to let them provoke us. do not allow provocations to go hand in hand with those who organize them and bring the executives and organizers to account. We should not allow this to continue, and we therefore demand that we appoint and name the attackers, the ones who brought them to the rally. We demand that the militia cover up the crime. That is why we are starting our parliamentary day today, and we very much want to hear the report of the Minister of Internal Affairs. In any modern country, after what happened on Saturday, it would force the Minister of Internal Affairs to resign. On the other hand, it's voluntary. [[Applause]] Moreover, he did not live up to the word he gave here in this room. The mechanism of responsibility must work. We need to name the names of the militia that covered the fight. There must be a criminal case against them, they must leave their posts, and if necessary, they must remain without pursuits. In many lands the illustration of authority, the fight against corruption, begins with a radical reform of the entire legal system. We MPs today have the opportunity to start doing this. We believe that the Supreme Council should ask the President to resign a minister who does not handle his duties, who does not keep his word, or hides himself from journalists. I also want to speak to the government and to the members of the majority. Understand and get used to it: Bills that threaten the foundations of national security, have a corrupt component, limit human rights, or claim an abuse, do not go into the Supreme Council Hall. That is why we demand that the draft legislation on the privatization of the gas transport system (draft 2937) on the elections in the two districts where the court tried to deprive the deputies (the bill 2971). The Council will work effectively if laws that form the basis of national security or human rights are first considered by a working group with equal representation from the opposition and the majority. This approach is working on Euro-Integration Laws. It should be made with regard to other fundamental decisions. Now for other questions about the order of the day. Last week we were asking questions about how the day-to-day adoption of decisions would free the economy from the nets of corruption. Some of these bills are in order daily, but we insist on a comprehensive review. Therefore, first, the opposition bill on the provision of European public standards in the judicial system (this is Bill 2019) should return to the agenda. We finally have to consider a bill to eliminate the potential for corruption in the provision of administrative services. He predicts that officials, not citizens, should collect the necessary information, this is Bill 2149.
ParlaMint-UA_2013-05-21-m0.u6	Finish up.
ParlaMint-UA_2013-05-21-m0.u7	Thank you. We demand that it be placed in the order of the day. Third. On Tuesday, a very important bill, such as the bill on the reduction of the only social contribution (draft 1182), is being considered, but it stands at the turn of twenty - nine. We demand that we speed up the consideration of this very important bill. Also to put the bill in order of the day, a draft bill initiated by our party, strike party, number 2680. It provides for obstacles to abuse of public officials during public procurement, as well as the strengthening of public control over public procurement. Therefore, I would like to support the inclusion of this bill in the agenda. And the last. I call on colleagues on committees to take account of the needs of the Ukrainian economy, and first of all to consider legislation that will restrict the will of officials, will also reduce the possibility of corruption. This applies to Bill 2571 (as regards the fair liability of taxpayers), which will help to breathe freely to many businesses. Ladies and gentlemen, we must do what we have promised our voters: destroy the foundations of corruption. And all the factions, all the parties, were addressing it when they went to the polls. And finally let the economy develop.
ParlaMint-UA_2013-05-21-m0.u8	Thank you. Ladies and gentlemen, we have six minutes. Vitaly Click took eight minutes. I'm asking you, the Party of the Regions, the national deputy of Zharavsky of the faction.
ParlaMint-UA_2013-05-21-m0.u9	Dear Head, distinguished colleagues, distinguished voters! First of all, the final vote proved that national MPs from various political powers can not only stand up but also successfully find common ground on various issues. This is clearly a positive trend. A number of important anti-corruption bills have been passed, in favour of which the constitutional majority voted. This is a vivid example of the legislator’s successful work. Anticorruption laws will put a bribe on your knees and lift an honest entrepreneur, a farmer, and just a citizen from the knees, forcing an official to serve you, honourable voters, not vice versa. It is worth mentioning the vote in favour of amending article 163 with the symbol 1 of Ukraine’s Criminal Code on the illicit manufacture and circulation of firearms, also approved by the constitutional majority. The same unanimity in the final vote has also been observed in the adoption of decrees to mark the relevant decisions, the anniversary of the birth of prominent cultural, art, education, science, and the discovery of the feats of heroes under the Kruts. In other words, the session hall was united by signs and events of Ukrainian history. Let me give you another typical example. In the first reading, 290 Ukrainian nationals adopted the draft Law on the Moratorium for the Elimination of Health Institutions. So opposition and most are able to find mutually acceptable solutions in the interests of the State and society. I'd like to share my own observations. When there's a tangible social component in the bill, that's what's bothering our citizens, our voters who don't care about the session room. A preliminary consideration of important legislative acts involving various aspects of Ukraine’s life. We're all different from different regions, but we all represent the Ukrainian people. Our regional features should not be divisive but enrich the national community. In this sense, we should be tolerant of one another, with respect to one another, without resorting to the temptation and humiliation of the individual for his views. This week, important legislative initiatives are planned for the plenary, such as the protection of the rights and freedoms of a citizen, the addition to the Criminal Code of Ukraine (as regards the features of the calculation of time limits for crimes committed by certain persons authorized to perform the functions of a state), the amendment to the current legislation for the full execution of administrative fees, the amendment of certain legislative acts by Ukraine to counter the registration of illegal business capture. In turn, processing changes to criminal law after putting more than 100 crimes into criminal offenses. This will significantly reduce punishment and international law, by the way, to this end. We must, through the art of compromises, establish a parliament that is capable of being a model of mutual respect and cooperation between different political forces. Ukrainian society needs connections. The interests of their own people are above all else. We respected colleagues are able to regain trust among our citizens. Voting for laws that really protect a citizen from the will of an official of any level. They will put an end to the callousness and bribery of our courts and will demonstrate to people that authority, including Parliamentary, can be trusted. We'll do everything we can to make the slogan "Glory to Ukraine!" was filled with the weight of what was done for our fellow countrymen. Thank you.
ParlaMint-UA_2013-05-21-m0.u10	Faction of the Ukrainian Company, Peter Mikolaiovich Simonenko, please.
ParlaMint-UA_2013-05-21-m0.u11	Dear colleagues! Respectable citizens of Ukraine! [[B in m in s a l in]] During the ongoing negotiations with the International Monetary Fund on the terms of the next loan, we, the communists, inform you that the IMF's demands are to increase the price of gas for the population to 40 per cent. These requirements, like the policies of this international organization of speculators and lobbyists of the interests of large transnational capital, are in fact economic terrorism against Ukrainian citizens. For many countries of the world, cooperation with IMF has resulted in the loss of economic sovereignty and the further impoverishment of the people. The Company therefore categorically opposes any cooperation with the IMF. Otherwise, we view this as a violation of the interests of society and the State. However, all discussions about the alleged loss of the JCX area and tariffs that do not cover their own costs are about an urgent lie caused by the inexorable greed of the oligarchs. Therefore, the confirmation is that there are no examples where the owners of the thermal power plants, the hydroelectric power plants, the valves and so forth have declared voluntary return of the enterprises they privatized at no cost and allegedly unprofitable. You can't see anything like that today. In this regard, we also state that it is unacceptable to consider the Government's proposed draft reform of the NAC “Neftegas” and to return the final privatization by the oligarchs of Ukraine's entire energy infrastructure to our underground storage facilities and highway pipelines. Instead of this anti-national, anti-State bill, we, the communists, are required to adopt a law authorizing the establishment of an inter-State gas consortium of Ukraine and Russia, which will enable us to make the most effective use of the Ukrainian tube, based on the interests of all our citizens, rather than the individual energy oligarkhs. We also demand the adoption of the Law on Moratorium on raising tariffs for the services of the JCC and gas prices for the population until the payroll is fully repaid. This is Bill 1055. As well as the second reading and, in general, the law under which the owner would be obliged to pay the employee half a per cent of the salary for each day's delay in wages. Respectable electors of the oligarchic authorities of the reform of the JCC, pension insurance, education have been indignant to most citizens. And the so-called medical reform, unlike the act of social genocide, cannot be called. From the outset, the company has criticized the reform of the health system carried out by the authorities, which is essentially one: the reduction of the budget for medicine, the commercialization of treatment facilities and ultimately the elimination of free medicine in the country. Billions of dollars of government money are being set up, while for the needs of public medicine there are pitiful coins. For example, in the Lugansk region, the daily diet of the patient ranges from 6 to 11 bracelets. There's a little over nine bracelets for drugs. It's all over Ukraine. What kind of treatment are we talking about? Particularly painfully, the med reform hit rural areas. Of the 12 hospitals in Lugansk region, 8 remain. All 146 FAPs in settlements up to 300 inhabitants are converted to so-called temporary health centres. What does this mean in practice? It is not difficult to guess from the very title of the decision. It's not just money, it's someone to work for. You can't get a young specialist on the arcan, and if you do, he'll run away at the earliest opportunity. That is why the Company's faction has introduced a number of bills to the Supreme Council in support of rural professionals, including payments to rural health professionals. We have considered this bill. Regrettably, it was not supported by large capital representatives and those who claimed in the elections that they wished to ensure the proper conditions of the rural population. If such a medical reform is not stopped now, it will be late tomorrow. The Company calls for support for our bill 2661 and for the abolition of medical reform, as well as for the abolition of pension reform, to prevent the adoption of the oligarchic Labour and Housing Codes that demean human beings. Respectable Ukrainian citizens, today domesticated oligarchs and international capital have planted Ukraine on a geopolitical spagata between the EU and the Customs Union. They are not interested in the real opinion of the people. Therefore, the Company, based on the Constitution of Ukraine, which states that the people are the only source of authority in the country, initiated the All-Ukrainian referendum on Ukraine's accession to the Customs Union. However, the CEC is persistently sabotaging the preparation of the necessary documents for such a referendum, thereby demonstrating a brazen attitude towards the laws of Ukraine, cynically violating the constitutional rights of our citizens. We demand that the CEC immediately, and we hope that Mr. Shapovalov will hear us, immediately begin his direct duties and prepare all documents for the holding of the U.S. referendum. Otherwise, the Company initiates the question of the personal responsibility of the Head of the Central Electoral Commission, Shapovalova, and his compliance with the position held up to criminal responsibility. In conclusion, the faction of communists has registered a package of anti-crisis bills that would allow Ukraine to be removed from the crisis, the prison cell, the crisis cell and create the necessary prerequisites for economic growth, while increasing the social standards of the lives of our citizens. We propose to enact these laws. Thank you.
ParlaMint-UA_2013-05-21-m0.u12	Freedom Union, National Deputy Illenko, please.
ParlaMint-UA_2013-05-21-m0.u13	Andrew Illenko, faction of the All-Ukrainian Freedom Union, city of Kiev. Dear colleagues, honourable voters, in fact, wanted to start by saying that the improvement that the Party of the Regions had been telling us about has failed completely. And in fact, instead of improving, the Ukrainian people have been made worse by their lives, by economic stagnation, by the complete degradation of the social sphere, by the onslaught and destruction of all the Ukrainians, by the destruction of the peoples of the country. And in fact, in the face of this total failure of the Party of Regions, they have nothing left to do but provoke conflict and civil opposition. They have nothing but to tell this mantra about so - called fascism in Ukraine. By saying this at every turn, by imposing the budget on these so - called anti - Fascist actions. But what's really worth mentioning here is that they're trying to get into our consciousness today. They say that freedom is slavery, that truth is lies, that patriotism is fascism. The one who opposes this bandit power is a fascist, and they appear to be anti-fascists. I would just like to read from the encyclopedia the definition of fascism: "Fascism is an open-ended terrorist dictatorship of the most reactive elements of financial capital. Fascism is the power of the financial capital itself." Here in this room, right here, there are representatives of this financial capital who want to destroy the peoples of Ukraine, destroy the Ukrainian state, and introduce their terrorist dictatorship. That is true fascism! And what they call Ukrainian patriots is they follow the Communist propaganda that all Ukrainians called fascists for speaking Ukrainian or wearing embroidered shirts. So, in this situation, I'd like to say, on May 18, it wasn't just the provocation of the power line, it was an attempt to provoke civil opposition. And actually, if it wasn't for the rapid and operational reaction of the opposition, they would actually have succeeded. They needed blood, they needed a fight, they needed to show, in fact, instead of this huge mass campaign of opposition to opposition and conflict. And that's why they brought in the armory on the street, which is why they brought in these british thugs. It's a new concept today in Ukraine -- "brief-headed anti-fascists." This is a new phenomenon in world politics that has never been. So these are the storm troopers who beat up journalists who attacked women -- they were the people who were standing at the rally of the Party of Regions in the protection of the scene. And there's a video that proves that the whole "brief-headed brother" of yours is all people who, by the way, practice in a sports hall at the police district office, are people who, for some reason, went undercover. For some reason the armored machine that had left was not clear why it was accompanied by DAI’s colleagues in the city center during the opposition campaign. And after that, you're still accusing the opposition of saying that the opposition is doing something wrong, that the opposition is causing something?Oh, my God! You're the provocateurs! In this situation, your job was to provoke bloodshed. You have to understand, Your Honor, that all those people who fought 18 numbers are the same "breeds" that were in all the troubled districts: the White Church, the Footwear, Basilkov. These are the same roses that are destroying now the home of Kiev's teacher Nina Moskalenko. They're the same roses that do the raiding. It's all the same Bandit Brother who was hired today by the Party of Regions for its action. But actually, society, I would like to say that the terror that started the Party of Regions is not limited to 18 numbers. There have been events in Ternopol, by the way, there have already been decisions by the prosecutor's office that national MPs have been declared injured in the militia-induced fights. There are events in Kiev when three gang attacks on "liberators" near their homes were committed in the last week. A few people were attacked on the back with radios, castes, beating people real to death, and now the boys are in the hospital. I was in the hospital last night in Vladimir Karasi, who was beaten up at no time at all, having a political activist brother, Eugene Karass, confused with his brother, beaten up by a guy who needs two surgeries right now, had a broken skull, could lose his job and become disabled. These are the methods that the Party of Regions and Power is doing. And that's because we already know who attacked these people, because we actually did, let's say, special operations and we found these people. There are photographs of these people, there are videos of these attackers. It's been a week, the police aren't even going to look for anyone. Therefore, society, today we demand that all those guilty of terrorism be punished against the opposition. We demand today, and we will demand the Minister of Internal Affairs or find and punish the guilty in provocations of 18 numbers, or go away. Because there is no need for a minister who does not defend the interests of the Ukrainians but protects the interests of the bandits and beats peaceful demonstrators along with them. And what I'd like to say is, lastly, you've chosen the path of conflict today, you've chosen the path of aggression and bloodshed -- it's a terrible and dangerous path. I urge you to get out of this way because you're sitting on a gas station today and playing matches. Remember Koljivščina, remember Hmelničina, remember the Cold Jar, the Ukrainians have long tolerated you bandits, but then they will rise and then you will have no place left. Remember the story and do not make these terrible mistakes. Glory to Ukraine!
ParlaMint-UA_2013-05-21-m0.u14	Kuprychuk, "The Fatherland" faction. He gives the word Jarsenius Yatzenyuk. Please.
ParlaMint-UA_2013-05-21-m0.u15	Mr. Head! Members of Parliament! There's one speaking from the Party of Regions who said that we have the opposition in front of us and in the future. That's true. I'm just going to add: you have everything in the Party of Regions in the past and your President too. [[Applause]] As we hold meetings of the Supreme Council of Ukraine right now, action is taking place in the commission of inquiry. You know why Interior Minister Zacharynko didn't show up for 10. 30 to Parliament? Now they've come up with the next version to make an eyepiece in the Ministry of Interior's department of inquiry and to show that it's called Ditarczuk, and it's called Rumin, who's hired by the Party of the Regions, that he's hired not by the Party of the Regions, but that he's hired by the Ukrainian opposition. And with this news, the Minister of Internal Affairs of Ukraine will come here. It's not news, it's lies, like the Party of Regions is lying. You beat people, you beat journalists, you bully Ukraine, and you will be punished. [[Applause]] Dear colleagues, if there is any doubt that the Minister of the Interior of Ukraine is acting without directing President Viktor Yanukovic personally, I think you are well aware that in this totalitarian system, where everyone is afraid, built by the current President, the whole provocation, which took place on May 18, this year, was made with the personal knowledge of Viktor Yanukovic. This provocation was organized by the Secretary of the Council of National Security and Defence, Clovis Andri Petrovich, born in 1968, before being tried. A provocation was organized by the Ministry of Internal Affairs, which had little inside the Ministry of Internal Affairs operational headquarters to discredit the opposition. Ukrainian security officials and the entire law enforcement system were involved in primarily satisfying Viktor Yanukovic’s personal fear of the Ukrainian opposition. I can tell you very clearly, the Party of Regions: we are aware that this prosecutor, this minister of internal affairs and this law enforcement system will never conduct an objective investigation under any circumstances. But the papers do not burn, nor will you be able to destroy human memory, nor will you forget the contempt you show for the Ukrainians. The time has come to throw stones away, but the time will come to gather these stones, and the time will certainly come, or the seasons. Or in the presidential term. You think you caught God's beard today, that you're all-powerful today, that under you today, the police, the prosecutor's office, the military and the law enforcement system, money and television, you think you can be bullied. And we think in a different way, we're confident that our Ukrainian people deserve another power, another President, and, indeed, those people who care about their people, the militia that protects every Ukrainian, the law-enforcement and judicial system that knows what honor, the law and the law is, the country that thinks about every Ukrainian. [[Applause]] We're the only ones in opposition to continue the All-Ukrainian action first. "Get up, Ukraine!'cause Ukraine is up. And that's why you, in the Party of Regions, have such a hysteria. I have rebelled against your haughtiness, your infidelity, your contempt, your corruption, your robbery, and your indemnity, which you have done in the last three years. We're the only ones in the opposition to prove that the Party of Regions that hired gunmen to beat Ukrainian journalists in order to beat Ukrainian citizens in order to stay in Ukrainian power under any circumstances will go into the past. And those who did so today will be held accountable to the high court of the Ukrainian people tomorrow. Glory to Ukraine!
ParlaMint-UA_2013-05-21-m0.u16	I'm asking the Postfactions, Vladimir Mikhailovich Litwin, please.
ParlaMint-UA_2013-05-21-m0.u17	Dear Volodymyr Vasilovich, dear colleagues! In view of the fact that the Supreme Council has clearly not a normal situation, I mean that the non-fractional MP has no right and has no opportunity to address any issue, more than that, he is deprived of the right to even insist on the draft bill he has proposed, we have asked you, Volodymyr Vasilovich, in fact, to sign all the non-fractional MPs, with a request, urgent such a request: to give us the opportunity to give to MPs who are not part of any of the political factions, to speak, to discuss any bill and to take account of the situation. I have to say, my honourable colleagues: we can appeal to the Rules and talk about what the Rules don't provide, but remember: the Supreme Council has passed away, and the opposition factions on Wednesday have the right to submit any drafts, to consider any issues. And we found the same understanding, so let's find an understanding on this issue, because soon, as I know, the number of non-fractionals is going to be equal to the smallest political fraction. So let us take an extremely calm approach and make a balanced decision. Why do I say that, dear colleagues? Because we have a situation where there is an unalterable head of government and there is no freedom of any constitutional action. Let's face it, the MP is mostly buttoned up, the truth is now in person. And the question is, what were they fighting so hard for? What is more, the situation is that the tone of the Supreme Council of Ukraine sets a narrow expanse of speaking. They're going to waste everything. But what is proposed? Accusations, tattoos, and democratic desires. I must say, dear colleagues, pay attention to the laws that have been passed on the subject of our European integration. When you read them, you will be surprised when you fill out the declarations next year. And these democratic wishes of the aprior are accepted as progressive. Plehanov once spoke of the genius of simplification. That's how we're dominated by simplification geniuses and everybody. The role of smallpox, opposition, and authority is being torn apart, but the role of the country and those who are still working in this country has been dramatically reduced. And these people are still outside the session room. What's going on is not to be called discussion and substantive conversation, and so we don't have it. And I'm afraid, and that's what everyone needs to hear that we don't have a single country. Soon there will be no one to rule. Historical practice testifies. Here, by the way, there were the right references to history, when a pragmatic line is lost, when demagogies and hatred begin to take themselves as a serious policy, it's a harbinger of the great trouble that can await us. There is a danger that we will once again win the victory over Ukraine, and we have tried to demonstrate this victory recently on May 18. May's events, as I can see, have confirmed the obvious: the scariest killers are the killers of historical truth. And stupidity is not yet the ultimate lack of understanding, it's a special political culture that's especially cultivated right now. No more nonsense! More than anything else in the present situation, we need to fear those who have earned the right to be a patriot. By the way, he's an obedient patriot. If there's no responsible conclusion, if we don't have a serious conversation here in the walls of the Supreme Council of Ukraine, then the aggressive and petty political fuss will turn out to be the loss of the great political sense of Ukraine's existence as a state, and let's talk about it and we'll think about it. I realize that I'm giving these warnings out in the open, but I understand what we're supposed to be talking about. And by the way, representatives of the MP Corps, who belong to the non-factional, are called. Vladimir Vasilovich, I ask you very much to support our concern, our appeal in part to be able to talk about problems and tasks that are very important to our voters. Thank you.
ParlaMint-UA_2013-05-21-m0.u18	Deputies! I support the idea that we will also hear non-fractional issues when we consider all the issues that we have. Let's go. Time's up. So, honourable colleagues, the list of issues that are proposed for discussion and decision-making, you have today. So come on, we have until 11:30. Let us consider the inclusion in the agenda of the day session. A proposal is made for the inclusion in the agenda of the draft Act (registration number 2938) to amend certain laws of Ukraine to reduce the number of permits to be obtained by food market operators. I would like to give the floor to the head of the Committee on Entrepreneurship, Regulatory and Antimonopoly Politics, Alexander Volodymyr's Kugel. Are we going to discuss these issues? Let's hear it and I'll put it to a vote. Do you have a deal? Come on.
ParlaMint-UA_2013-05-21-m0.u19	Dear National Deputies! This is a government bill, very good. There's something to be done. But it is aimed at deregulation and simplification of procedures of the Ukrainian manufacturer. Please also support the inclusion in the agenda.
ParlaMint-UA_2013-05-21-m0.u20	Thank you. I bet on the vote, attention, national MPs! Please. I am voting on the draft Act (Registration No. 2938) amending certain laws of Ukraine to reduce the number of documents of a permissive nature to be obtained by food market operators. To make a decision. Please vote. [[10:50:43]] For 297 Against 0, held – 37, not a vote – 70. Decision taken. Draft Law 2938 is included in the agenda of the day session. The draft Law (No. 2629) on the State Social Programme for the Development of Physical Culture and Sports for 2013 - 2017 is under consideration. Please inform the head of the Committee on Family, Youth Policy, Sport, and Tourism, Arthur Leonidovich Palatno. Please.
ParlaMint-UA_2013-05-21-m0.u21	Dear colleagues, Reverend Vladimir Vasilovich! The Committee on Family, Youth Policy, Sport, and Tourism at its meeting on April 16, 2013, reviewed the draft Ukrainian Law on the National Social Programme for the Development of Physical Culture and Sports for 2013 - 2017, submitted by the Cabinet of Ministers of Ukraine. The bill does not conflict with the Constitution of Ukraine. But the Chief Research Authority concluded that the bill needs to be redrafted. According to members of our committee, the main disadvantage of the project is the lack of a list of measures to implement and fund the program. The bill proposes to entrust the government with the approval of the measures in question each year and, when preparing the draft National Budget Act of Ukraine for the year in question, to provide for expenditure to ensure that the programme is implemented. Think about it, given the financial possibilities, that is, the sport is once again planned to be financed in the rest of the way. Of course, it can be said that our economy is in a state of crisis and there are no necessary funds in the budget. But it's about investing in the future of our country. What more can be said about sports planning without an approved plan of action? Another rhetorical question. The Law on the Approval of the State Social Programme for the Improvement of Safety, Occupational Health and Productive Environment for 2014-2018 was recently adopted. This is how it's supposed to be. The list of measures, the amount of funding approved. I do not want to compare, but is the health of a nation, a growing generation less important than safety and hygiene? Honorable National MPs.
ParlaMint-UA_2013-05-21-m0.u22	We include, we don't analyze the law, we include it in the agenda. Here's your offer. Complete your offer.
ParlaMint-UA_2013-05-21-m0.u23	Ladies and gentlemen, no matter what many problems there are, there are many questions about this bill, we must now include it in the first reading and accept it as a basis. Ladies and gentlemen, if you'll let me finish, I will.
ParlaMint-UA_2013-05-21-m0.u24	Thank you. Have a seat. Have a seat. I am voting for the inclusion in the agenda of the draft Law (No.2629) on the State Social Programme for Physical Culture and Sports for 2013-2017. And I ask the national deputies to vote. To be included in the agenda of the day session. Please vote. [[10:55:04]] For 350. Against - 1, held – 1, not voted – 51. Decision taken. Suggests the inclusion in the agenda of the draft Law (registration number 2686) on amendments to article 189 of the Ukrainian Code of Administrative Justice (to clarify the grounds for refusal to open appeal). Kivalov reports Sergey Vasilovich. Please.
ParlaMint-UA_2013-05-21-m0.u25	Dear Vladimir Vasiljevic, distinguished colleagues, distinguished voters! The purpose of the bill is to ensure that citizens are entitled to legal proceedings in a reasonable manner in order to ensure the right to adequate judicial protection. It is proposed that the courts of appeal be given the authority to refuse the authorities to accept their appeals if there are no such arguments. This means that any citizen who is tried by a State body, for example by his or her pension, will be able to obtain a final judgement on his or her own matter much faster. In doing so, the courts will not be so overwhelmed by groundless appeals. It's a really up-to-date bill. I ask that you support its inclusion in the agenda of the session. Thank you for your attention.
ParlaMint-UA_2013-05-21-m0.u26	Thank you, sit down. I am voting for the inclusion in the agenda of the draft Act (registration number 2686) on amendments to article 189 of the Ukrainian Code of Administrative Justice (to clarify the grounds for refusing to open appeal). People's deputies, please vote. [[10:57:58]] For 348 Against-0, held-4, not a vote-52. Decision taken. There is a proposal for the inclusion in the agenda of the draft Act (2680) of a draft Act amending certain Ukrainian legislative acts to improve the procedure for public procurement. Please, the head of the committee of Ivanchuk Andrija Volodymyrovich.
ParlaMint-UA_2013-05-21-m0.u27	Good afternoon, Vladimir Vasilovich, honourable deputies! Please include in the agenda of the day-to-day second session Bill 2680 of the People's MP Klitschka Vitali Volodymirovich. Thank you.
ParlaMint-UA_2013-05-21-m0.u28	Thank you, sit down. I'm betting on the vote, Your Honor. Huh? After this bill? Please, Baby, give me a minute. [[B in m in s a l in]] He's asking.
ParlaMint-UA_2013-05-21-m0.u29	Easy, Radical Party. Dear Vladimir Vasilovich! Dear colleagues! An extremely important bill to be considered. And I would like to report to the State Statistics Service on the purchase of goods, jobs and services for public funds in January-March 2013. At first glance, it seems that the numbers are normal. But if you analyze it, you can see a lot of interesting things. For example, in the first quarter of 2013, 100 billion dollars were purchased by one participant or without the application of tendering procedures. This is almost a half the size of all tender procedures. So this is evidence of mass corruption in the public procurement system, when 100 billion dollars without applying tender procedures to purchase. And that's why I think we need to substantially correct tender legislation in order to stop corruption in government-funded purchases.
ParlaMint-UA_2013-05-21-m0.u30	I am voting for the inclusion in the agenda of the draft Act (No. 2680) on amendments to certain Ukrainian legislative acts to improve the procedure for public procurement. People's deputies, please vote. [[11:00:52]] For-163 [[B in m in s a l in]] Against 4, held – 41, not voted – 189. The decision is not taken. Factions: The Party of the Regions is 9, Fatherland is 62, Vitalia Klicka is 35, Freedom is 36, Ukraine is 0, non-fractional is 21. A proposal is made for the inclusion in the agenda of the draft Act (registration number 2639) to amend the Criminal Code for the protection of a person from unlawful coercion. Please, National Deputy Žuravsky Vitaly Stanislavovich.
ParlaMint-UA_2013-05-21-m0.u31	I would like to postpone the introduction of Bill 2639, which I have written for two weeks in connection with the work being done, although it has been supported by a law enforcement committee. Thank you.
ParlaMint-UA_2013-05-21-m0.u32	I'm betting on the vote to postpone the draft Law 2639 for two weeks. Please vote deputies. [[11:02:35]] For 201 Let's move on. Please, Adam Ivanovich. Please. [[B in m in s a l in]] The author withdrew it and had nothing to vote for. Yeah, right? [[B in m in s a l in]] Let's go. A proposal is made to include the number in the agenda of the draft Law. (Registration No. 2650) on the introduction of additions to the Criminal Code of Ukraine on the features of calculating limitation periods for crimes committed by certain persons authorized to perform functions of the State. Please, Zuravsky Vitaly Stanislavovich.
ParlaMint-UA_2013-05-21-m0.u33	All the equal before the law is a constitutional position, but there is an intactity in a certain category of people. You all know who that means. This legal coalition should be removed for all those who have this inviolability. I propose that article 49 of the Criminal Code of Ukraine be completed in part six and seven, assuming that the inviolability does not absolve the criminal responsibility for committing crimes, nor does it relieve the individual of his status as untouchable, nor after the completion of his term of office. Thank you.
ParlaMint-UA_2013-05-21-m0.u34	Is there a need to discuss? I'm begging you to write it down. I ask you to make a decision: consider the simplified procedure. Don't you? [[B in m in s a l in]] I'm asking for a minute from the faction. Please sign up for a minute from the faction. Any questions? Party of regions, Levchenko.
ParlaMint-UA_2013-05-21-m0.u35	Dear colleagues, this is not appropriate, the bill has been considered by the Committee of Legal Policy and is not in accordance with the Constitution of Ukraine because all must be equal before the law and cannot apply special statutes to any other person and all must be equal before the law.
ParlaMint-UA_2013-05-21-m0.u36	Please, Fatherland, Turkinov. Please.
ParlaMint-UA_2013-05-21-m0.u37	The honorable chairman, the honourable colleagues, the fact that we have a repressive state, will not surprise anyone, but we must have any limits. I want to remind everyone that according to the current legislation, the calculation of the statute of limitations ends only when another crime is committed. Mr. Zharavsky, the Party of the Regions, wants all the deputies to be counted as criminals who, like others, will be suspended for crimes from the time of the commission of the crime. So let's stop this frost. There's a procedure to bring an MP to justice. This procedure is in operation. And please stop this terror that you've committed in the state. Thank you.
ParlaMint-UA_2013-05-21-m0.u38	Freedom Union, Sabia.
ParlaMint-UA_2013-05-21-m0.u39	Igor Sabiy, All-Ukrainian Freedom Union, 189 constituency, Krasilov, Hmelničina. Please pass the word to Andrey Mishchenk.
ParlaMint-UA_2013-05-21-m0.u40	Please, Andrew Mishchenko.
ParlaMint-UA_2013-05-21-m0.u41	Andrew Mishchenko, All-Ukrainian Freedom Union. What is the purpose of the initiative? Is this question relevant today? People’s deputies, what, are they committing crimes that should be halted by the statute of limitations? Not at all. In another way, it is clear that the bill is a continuation of political pressures, repression, and blackmail. The government's trying to intimidate everyone, and the inconvenients are trying to put them in the game by throwing them at the citizens and the brothers, so they're special forces in the Berkut department. Dictatorship carries out raids on businesses, housing units, foreclosures elections, triggers peaceful action, beats journalists. And they understand very well that we need to take away the mandate of inviolability. The government understands this very well and therefore proposes to cancel the statute of limitations for the deputies. This will allow for the discovery of criminal cases on the conveyor of opposition deputies and stimulate blackmail by non-factional deputies. Who knows, no.
ParlaMint-UA_2013-05-21-m0.u42	Hit Vitaly Call, Smokey.
ParlaMint-UA_2013-05-21-m0.u43	Please pass the word to Victor Mikhailovich Pinzenik.
ParlaMint-UA_2013-05-21-m0.u44	Victor Mikhailovich Pinzenik.
ParlaMint-UA_2013-05-21-m0.u45	Dear Head! Dear National Deputies! When the author of the bill appeals to the Constitution to motivate the adoption of this law, it should be noted that the basic norm of the Constitution is the equality of all citizens before the law. This means that there can be no untouched castes in Ukraine. The inviolability of all citizens, as provided for by the Constitution (this applies also to Ukrainian national deputies and judges and the President of Ukraine) and the need for the adoption of a special law to postpone the passage of time. Because in fact, the adoption of such a law legitimizes the caste of the untouchable. With these motives, the impact faction won't support the inclusion of this project in the agenda.
ParlaMint-UA_2013-05-21-m0.u46	And now, honourable deputies, let's define by voting. I am voting for the inclusion in the agenda of the draft Act (registration number 2650) on the introduction of additions to the Criminal Code of Ukraine on the features of the calculation of time limits for crimes committed by certain persons authorized to perform the functions of the State. Members, please vote. [[11:09:35]] For-35 That's what we're up to. For 35, against 125, held 46, did not vote 193. The decision is not taken. The factions. Region Party 8, Parenthood, 0, Vitalia Klicka, 0, Freedom, 0, Company 26, non-fractional, 1. A proposal is made for the inclusion in the agenda of the draft Act (Registration No. 2990) on amendments to certain Ukrainian legislative acts (for the implementation of the Action Plan on Liberalisation by the European Union of the Visa Regime for Ukraine regarding the liability of legal persons). Who's going to report it? Take off Oleg Igorovich. Is he going to report it? Will we put it to a vote? I'll bet you a vote. I would like to vote on the inclusion in the agenda of the draft Act (Registration No. 2990) on amendments to certain legislative acts of Ukraine (for the implementation of the Action Plan on Liberalisation by the European Union of the Visa Regime for Ukraine with regard to the liability of legal persons). People's deputies, please vote. [[11:11:26]] For 315 Against-0, held-0, didn't vote-86. Decision taken. A proposal is made for the inclusion in the agenda of the draft Law (number 2022a) on amendments to the Rules of the Supreme Council of Ukraine (for the preliminary consideration of bills, draft other acts on committees). I ask the head of the Committee on Rules of Procedure of Vladimir Vladimirovich Makeenka. Should we put it to a vote? I am voting for the inclusion in the agenda of the draft Law (Registration No. 2022a) on amendments to the Rules of the Supreme Council of Ukraine (for the preliminary consideration of draft laws, draft other acts on committees). People's deputies, please vote. [[11:12:42]] For 231 Against 95, held – 6, did not vote – 72. Decision taken. The factions. Regional Party - 165, Fatherland - 0, Vitalia Klicka - 34, Freedom - 0, Company - 27, non-fractional - 5. A proposal is made for the inclusion in the agenda of the draft Law (Registration No. 2579) on the addition of the Work Protection Act on the regulation of penalties to legal and natural persons who use employment. He'll report. Vote? I am voting for the inclusion in the agenda of the draft Act (registration number 2579) on the introduction of additions to the Labour Protection Act of Ukraine to regulate the application of fines to legal and natural persons who use employment. People's deputies please identify themselves. [[11:14:21]] For 234 Against 35, held 48, did not vote 86. Decision taken. Let's see the factions. There is a proposal to include in the agenda of the day session of the Project Order (Registration No. 2578) to mark 40 years from the date of assigning the city of Kerchi the honorary title "City-Hero". May I put it to a vote? I bet. I'm betting on a vote to be included in the agenda of the Day Session of Project Order (No.2578) to mark the 40th anniversary of the award to the city of Kerch. Please vote for the people's deputies. [[11:15:36]] For 267 Against 0, hold on, 55, not a vote, 81. Decision taken. The factions. Region Party - 168, Fatherland - 23, Vitalia Klicka - 34, Freedom - 0, Ukrainian Company - 27, non-fractional - 15. A proposal is made for the inclusion in the agenda of the daily session of the Project Order (2607) on the marking of the 70th anniversary of the Carpathian Reid by the guerrilla association Sidor Kovpak. May I put it to a vote? I'm betting on the vote to be included in the agenda of the day session of the Bill (No.2607) to mark the 70th anniversary of the Carpathian Reid, the guerrilla association of Sidor Kovpak. People's deputies please identify themselves. [[11:16:55]] For 211 Against 54, held – 61, did not vote – 77. The factions, please. Region Party - 172, Fatherland - 2, Vitalia Klicka - 0, Freedom - 0, Company - 26, non-fractional - 11. There is a proposal to include in the agenda of the project's day session a decree marking the 600th anniversary of the establishment of the town of Kitzman in the Cherniewsky region. May I put it to a vote? I bet. I'm betting on the vote to be included in the agenda of the draft regulation (number 2631) on the 600th anniversary of the establishment of the city of Kitzman in the Cherniewsky region. People's deputies, please vote. [[11:18:19]] For 353 Against 0, held – 1, not voted – 50. Decision taken. There is a proposal for the inclusion in the agenda of the Draft Regulation (2658) on the 100th anniversary of the creation of the Main Ukrainian Council. May I put it to a vote? I'm betting on the vote to be included in the agenda of the project's day-to-day session. People's deputies, please vote. [[11:19:12]] For-162 Against - 4, held - 30, not voted - 199. The decision is not taken. The factions. Region Party 4, Parenthood, 69, Vitalia Klicka, 36, Freedom 36, Company 0, non-fractional, 17. A proposal is made for the inclusion in the agenda of the daily session of the Ukrainian People's Republic Ordinance (2681) on the 100th anniversary of the donation by Metropolitan Andrei Sheptick to the National Museum in Lviv to the Ukrainian people and the opening of the first exhibition. Puts the vote on? I am voting for the agenda of the Draft Decree (2681) on 100 years since the donation by Metropolitan Andrei Sheptick to the National Museum in Lviv to the Ukrainian people and the opening of the first exhibition. People's deputies, please vote. [[11:20:43]] For 313 Against-1, held-3, not voted-86. Decision taken. Dear MPs, we work very fast, ask for a computer two minutes to reboot the computer. Honorable deputies. a proposal is made for the inclusion in the agenda of the Draft Regulation (2684) on the marking of the 70th anniversary of the creation of the Ukrainian General Liberation Council. I'm betting on voting for the agenda of the Draft Resolution (2684) to mark the 70th anniversary of the creation of the Ukrainian General Liberation Council. People's deputies, please vote. [[11:22:22]] For-162 Against 37, held 38, did not vote 164. The decision is not taken. The factions. Region Party 3, Fatherland 71, Vitalia Klicka Hit 37, Freedom 35, Ukraine Company 0, non-factional 16. And there's a proposal for the inclusion in the agenda of the 2720 Project Day Session of the 100th anniversary of the founding of the National Academy of Ukrainian Dramatic Theatre Maria Zankovecki. People's deputies, please vote. There's a vote coming. [[11:23:27]] For 363 Against - 0, held - 0, did not vote - 45. Decision taken. A proposal is made for the inclusion in the agenda of the day session of the decree marking the 70th anniversary of the liberation of the city of Harkov from German-Fashistic invaders. I'm betting on a vote to include in the agenda of the day's session a draft Decree (registration number 280)5 on the marking of the 70th anniversary of the liberation of the city of Harkov from German-Fashistic invaders. People's deputies, please vote. [[11:24:30.]] For 315 Against 0, held – 39, not voted – 54. Decision taken. Factions: Region Party 174, Fatherland 54, Vitalia Klicka 40, Freedom 0, Ukraine 27, non-fractional 20. Let's move on. There is a proposal for the inclusion in the agenda of the draft regulation (No. 2957) on the application of the Supreme Council of Ukraine to the President of Ukraine in the context of the 2013 National Action Plan for the implementation of the 2010-2014 Economic Reform Programme "Affordable Society, a Competitive Economy, an Effective State" in the development of higher education. May I put it to the vote for inclusion? I'm betting on the vote to be included in the agenda of the draft resolution 2957 on the appeal of the Supreme Council of Ukraine. Please vote. [[11:26:27]] For-154 Against – 3 held – 37, did not vote – 211. The decision is not taken. The factions. [[B in m in s a l in]] All right, sit down! Now we're going to look at everyone and come back. [[B in m in s a l in]] Let's go back! So let's think about two solutions, and then I'll give you my word and we'll come back. No questions! "For." The factions. Let's have a look. Let's move on. A proposal is made for the inclusion in the agenda of the draft Act amending the Law on general secondary education (relatively the minimum number of pupils in classes of general primary schools located in rural areas) (No 2768). Can I put it to a vote or report? I am voting for the vote to be included in the agenda of the draft Act (Registration No. 2768) amending the Ukrainian General Secondary Education Act (relatively the minimum number of pupils in the general primary education classes in the rural area). People's deputies, please vote. [[11:28:24]] For 366 Against - 1, held - 0, not voted - 40. Decision taken. A proposal is made for the inclusion in the agenda of the draft Law (Registration No. 2878) on amendments to some Ukrainian legislation on education on the organization of inclusive learning. May I put it to a vote? I am voting for the inclusion in the agenda of the draft Act (2878) on amendments to some Ukrainian legislation on education on the organization of inclusive learning. People's deputies please identify themselves. [[11:29:30.]] For 359 Against 0, holding back - 0, not voting - 46. Decision taken. I'm asking the faction one minute at a time on the projects that we've considered. Please sign in. Please, Bondarenko, Fatherland.
ParlaMint-UA_2013-05-21-m0.u47	Pass the Greenwich. Pass the word Greenevich.
ParlaMint-UA_2013-05-21-m0.u48	Pass it on, please.
ParlaMint-UA_2013-05-21-m0.u49	Lilia Grinevich, "The Fatherland" faction. Dear colleagues, I ask you to return to the vote of the Supreme Council Order on the President's national plan of action. We are concerned about the position of this plan, which relates to the increase in the ratio of the number of students per teacher to 18 students. This can lead to a sharp reduction in teachers and social tension and a decrease in the quality of higher education. Many discussions were held by the committee, and many letters of indignation were received. The academic environment is also outraged by this issue. We're asking the President to remove this item from the plan, that is, the question of hearing and.
ParlaMint-UA_2013-05-21-m0.u50	You made an offer to go back to Law 2957, right? Until the verdict. Next. I'm asking Zac, the Party of Regions.
ParlaMint-UA_2013-05-21-m0.u51	Please pass the word Pisarenko Valerius Vladimirovich.
ParlaMint-UA_2013-05-21-m0.u52	Please, Pisarenko.
ParlaMint-UA_2013-05-21-m0.u53	Dear Vladimir Vasilovich, distinguished colleagues, first of all, I would like to thank all the colleagues who supported the 70th anniversary of the liberation of Harkov from German-Fashistic invaders. And given that we have not had much time left until those days when we are celebrating those triumphant days in Ukraine's history, I would like to ask, Your Honor Vladimir Vasilovich, for this evening's meeting to put to the vote this decision, so that we have yet time to prepare all the measures that we will appreciate when Ukraine overcame fascism, overcame German-Fashistic invaders and freed the whole world of Europe from this scourge. Thank you.
ParlaMint-UA_2013-05-21-m0.u54	Next. The Vitaly Klitschka faction, Cherneg.
ParlaMint-UA_2013-05-21-m0.u55	Roman Cherneg, Vitaly Caller Faction. Dear colleagues, you know, we're talking a lot in this session room about anti-corruption laws, overcoming corruption. Including our colleagues from the Party of Regions speaking, especially the Communist faction. At the same time, Bill 2680 did not find support in the session room, which demonstrates the true face, intentions, and wishes of the national deputies present and their political forces. So the Vitalia Klitschka faction demands that we go back to this bill and point out at another point that, when we vote in our two colleagues, somehow the cards didn't work again. And the second question. I'd like to ask. Vladimir Vasilovich, well, it's 1133, we don't see an interior minister in the session room somehow.
ParlaMint-UA_2013-05-21-m0.u56	Let's finish these questions and listen to the Minister's information. He's in the hall. Let's welcome the Minister of Internal Affairs of Ukraine, Vitaly Yuriovich. [[B in m in s a l in]] Let us consider the question. Please, the Ukraine Company, Simonenko.
ParlaMint-UA_2013-05-21-m0.u57	Dear colleagues! I ask, in addressing all of today's national MPs, to vote and to include in the order of the daily draft of the Law (2607), which relates to the commemoration of the 70th anniversary of the Carpathian Reid by the guerrilla association Sidor Kovpak. I am convinced that every conscious person, every patriot of his people, who values and respects the Great Victory, must support it. This unique event was during the Great Homeland War, the heroism of the masses of our people. And it's just surprising that they didn't support us to get into the agenda and make the right decision. Also on behalf of the faction, please, Vladimir Vasilovich, I called you yesterday at the Conciliation Council to include the 1040 project in order. This is the preservation of street names associated with the Great Homeland War (1041). It is a protection against those who destroy monuments and who fought Nazism during the years of World War II and the Great Fatherland. And 1060 about responsibility for public denial or justification of the crimes of fascism. I'm asking you to support me, Your Honor.
ParlaMint-UA_2013-05-21-m0.u58	I beg of you, the Freedom Union, the People's Deputy of Kyde.
ParlaMint-UA_2013-05-21-m0.u59	Please give it to Alexander Sich.
ParlaMint-UA_2013-05-21-m0.u60	Pass the word.
ParlaMint-UA_2013-05-21-m0.u61	Alexander Sitch, Freedom, Ivano-Frankovsky. The faction calls for a return to Bill 2957. Experts estimate that the implementation of the National Plan of Action, as planned by the President, will reduce about 48,000 professionals in higher education institutions. And then there'll be the same subjects, the same master's degree, the same scientific work, that kind of thing. Absolute cynicism is to argue this by approaching European standards. As such, there are no European standards. There are standards of individual countries. And I'm telling you for comparison. In Ukraine, the workload per year for a teacher is 900 hours. In France 128 is for professors, 129 is for junior staff. Italy is 350. Weeks. In Ukraine, 20 hours a week. In Sweden – 9, in the United States – 9. Instead, in Asia, India, 16, Malaysia, 18.
ParlaMint-UA_2013-05-21-m0.u62	All of it. Let me finish.
ParlaMint-UA_2013-05-21-m0.u63	And in fact, that means that this plan of action leads us not to Europe, but to Asia. Be honest. Thank you.
ParlaMint-UA_2013-05-21-m0.u64	All the factions, not 'no', but 'yes'; the Greenwich, Bondarenko gave her his word. So everybody sit down. Come on, we'll be sure. Dear friends! The offer to return, the "Fatherland" faction, Greenewicz, submitted, was to return to Decree 2957. For reasons of vote? Well, please, Simonenko.
ParlaMint-UA_2013-05-21-m0.u65	Ladies and gentlemen, I would like to draw your attention to the fact that we have only voted with you on Friday to request the President's address in accordance with this problem. That's why I'd like to ask, let's just make a proposal just like Zubczewski and Jury, and vote that the President should give an answer for the change of command. In this part I'd like to ask, we're going to get an answer from the President, and then we're going to vote all of them together in an additional way in order to bring this into line with the new rule of law.
ParlaMint-UA_2013-05-21-m0.u66	I'm going to put the return vote now, as there are proposals for deputies. I am voting on my return to the draft decree (registration number 2957). People's deputies please identify themselves, vote. [[11:38:18]] For-161 Against – 1, held – 18, did not vote – 220. The decision is not taken. The factions. Got to know each other. They took that question down. Let's move on to 2805. At the evening meeting, there is a proposal for a member to consider. Then we will consider the decisions there, and we will make this determination. There is no need to vote. Next, 2680, about the return. This is a draft Act amending some Ukrainian legislation on improving the procedure for public procurement. So I'm betting on the vote. Please, the Communist Party, Simonenko.
ParlaMint-UA_2013-05-21-m0.u67	Simonenko, the faction of the Company. I would like to stress once again that the Company faction has always been in a tough position to control and bring to bear responsibility for the violation. But I would like to ask Vitaly Volodymyrovich to remove this problem today, based on the fact that today the standard is set at 150,000 bracelets and this is the realisation of one product or another, and so on, the way out. And if we just drop to 50,000, we're going to have more corruption and we're not going to be able to buy the same things that we need to repair the same school, kindergartens and other facilities. I'm just calling you, let's do other models with you about hard control, responsibility. But in these circumstances and this legislation, this will only lead to an even greater number of businesses or institutions of culture and state institutions participating in these various corruption schemes. Because the decline is an increase in the number of people who will cooperate with the criminal world. Thank you.
ParlaMint-UA_2013-05-21-m0.u68	I don't see the author of the law. He turned to the author of the law. So I'm betting on a return vote, a return vote. We don't need to be here, we don't think about it, we don't talk about it. I'm voting on the draft law (registration number 2680) to reconsider. Please vote for the people's deputies. [[11:41:08]] For a hundred and Against – 2, held – 22, not voted – 217. The decision is not taken. Please, by the factions. Got to know each other. And the final decision, and we're going to move forward in the daytime. The draft decrees proposed that the 70th anniversary of the Carpathian Reid should return to the guerrilla compound Sidor Kovpak (No.2607). I'll bet you a vote. Who's in favour of coming back to the draft decree 2607, please vote. [[11:42:11]] For-187 Take that question off. Yes, I'm asking for one minute of voting, asking for the unification of Freedom, Switzerland. One minute, please. We haven't considered these projects. And in the evening, we will consider the decision and make it. Don't worry, we haven't looked at them. Please, Switzerland.
ParlaMint-UA_2013-05-21-m0.u69	Mr. Head, my fellow MPs! I'd like to vote on two bills: 1061 and 2201. They were 12 hours 47 minutes and 12 hours 49 minutes on May 17, 2013, or Friday. At this time, in Lugansk, one of our colleagues, the national deputy, Koleschenko Vadim Vasilovich, was present at the so-called anti-fascist assembly and later participated in the march, in the rallying so-called anti-fascist in Lugansk. This is anchored in many of the Internet publications that I passed on to the Head of the Supreme Council. Under the rules contained in the Rules, in the event of the identification of a non-personal vote by the so-called anti-fascist Koleshnenko, the Supreme Council is returning to the vote on matters that have been voted against in violation of the personal voting rule. Please return to voting on Bills 2201 and 1247. Thank you.
ParlaMint-UA_2013-05-21-m0.u70	Please, Hanna Herman.
ParlaMint-UA_2013-05-21-m0.u71	Some of our colleagues during the last war would be good police officers. They're making it clear. But I want to say today that it's totally unacceptable that part of this room did not vote in favour of the 70th anniversary of the liberation of Harkov from the fascist invaders. It's a disgrace. The region suffered as much as the whole of Ukraine. Many have died. Many were destroyed. And today, not honoring this date and demonstrating not giving a single vote is testimony to the involvement of fascism.
ParlaMint-UA_2013-05-21-m0.u72	Ladies and gentlemen, the Counting Commission is required by law to make proposals at the evening session, so at the evening session, we will return to the matter. Honorable deputies, as we agreed on the Conciliation Council, are present in the Hall of Vitaly Yuriovich Zaharchenko. I'm asking the MP to clear a seat next to the minister. Do you hear or not?Oh, my God! Allow the minister to listen. Therefore, it is suggested that the minister be given information for up to 20 minutes and that he be given up to 10 minutes to answer written and oral questions from the MPs and national deputies. And let's see. [[B in m in s a l in]] And look at the information in 30 minutes. Then we'll have a temporary commission of inquiry that will be able to listen specifically. [[B in m in s a l in]] 30 minutes at a time. All right, report.
ParlaMint-UA_2013-05-21-m0.u73	Dear citizens of Ukraine! Deputies! The Grand Head of the Supreme Council! I would like to start my report by saying that under article 39 of the Constitution of Ukraine, a mandate was given to the Cabinet of Ministers to draft the Law on Peace Meetings of Citizens. And since 2005, the Supreme Council. [[B in m in s a l in]] I didn't manage to pass that law. So I'd like to take this opportunity to look at all the factions in the second reading of this law and to adopt it in order not to see events that took place on May 18 of this year. How peaceful meetings are held today in the State and what they are.
ParlaMint-UA_2013-05-21-m0.u74	Vitaly Yuriovich! Vitaly Yuriovich, one minute. Well, let's have a conscience! You invited the minister-- let's listen, ask a question, it shouldn't be. [[B in m in s a l in]] Let's be respectful. Please.
ParlaMint-UA_2013-05-21-m0.u75	I will demonstrate today how peaceful meetings take place in our nation. By the end of April of May this year, 9 reports of planned mass action in the capital of May 18 were received by the Kiev City State Administration: 3 reports of action "Get up, Ukraine!', 6 reports of action related to the celebration of the Day of Europe under the slogan 'Fascism in Ukraine will not pass!'"To Europe without fascists!".. The total number of participants has been declared to be over 140,000. In connection with such extensive measures, the Ministry of Internal Affairs has drawn up a plan and a budget of law enforcement forces and tools to ensure public order. In order to respond immediately to changes in the operational environment, reinforced task forces, documentation groups, and the necessary reserves were created. I'm familiar with it. From other regions of the state to the capital, 500 special forces officers from the Berkut and 200 internal military personnel arrived to assist. In general, over 4,000 law enforcement officers were involved in the protection of public order. There were questions about what was going on in the state, and I'm going to stop your attention. As for the events around the armored car. During the mass campaign in the capital, information was received about the movement of a armoured car in the central part of the city. In order to determine the purpose of this vehicle’s presence on the streets of the city and to prevent possible negative consequences, I personally decided to deliver the armoured car to the nearest territorial body of internal affairs. DAI began accompanying him to the Shevchenkov Paradise. On the street, the Great Zitomir group of opposition national deputies blocked the traffic of the car. Immediately, the vehicle was led by a crowd of people with the symbolism of the Party of the Fatherland, UNA-UNSO, in Freedom -- up to 150 people. They were broken windows in a armoured car, a broken video recorder, a broken engine lid, and a flat tire. All of this was accompanied by a few minutes. Some 70 youths from Mikhail’s Square also intervened in the conflict. On both sides, uncensored comments were heard, plastic bottles with unknown fluids were thrown, tear gas sprayed, and isolated conflicts arose. I suggest you watch the videos of these events.
ParlaMint-UA_2013-05-21-m0.u76	Keep going.
ParlaMint-UA_2013-05-21-m0.u77	After the militia intervened, the crowds were localized. The armored car was delivered to paradise. The following department of the Shevchenkow Paradise Department of the Ministry of Internal Affairs of Ukraine in Kiev has begun criminalization according to the fact of bullying (art. 296 of the Second Criminal Code). In addition, the driver of the armored car also has administrative protocols for the violation of traffic regulations. [[B in m in s a l in]] On that same day, the National Deputys of Ukraine Jarem and Mikhalchisin, who claimed to be a military special vehicle, made threats to citizens on the street of the Great Zitomirska. These applications have been registered and are being verified. In the case of bodily damage to Snysarczuk. About 15 hours before Shevchenkov's administration of the Ministry of Internal Affairs of Ukraine in Kiev, Snisarczuk Olga Jurijovna, journalist, parliamentary correspondent, editor of the Time Program, “Summary” TV channel “5 channel”. She reported that during the shooting of opposition forces, unknown persons near house 1/3 on the street Big Zitomirska hit her in the face and smashed her cell phone. I wanted to show you another video, but I won't. [[B in m in s a l in]] Show? Please show me. Show me, please.
ParlaMint-UA_2013-05-21-m0.u78	Keep going. Vitaly Yuriovich, keep going.
ParlaMint-UA_2013-05-21-m0.u79	According to Sniserchuk, at about 13 a.m., she arrived in the central part of Kiev for the purpose of expressing her public position. At about 2 p.m. on the street of the Great Zitomirsk, unknown men ran up to her and began to beat her. During her physical injuries, she shouted that she was a journalist and was carrying out her professional duties, but it did not stop the attackers. Next to the users of the Internet, she learned about the persons involved in the conflict. Snizarczuk was provided with medical care at the city's "fast" medical event, which was called by police officers. She suffered from hospitalization. 18.05.2013 The department responsible for investigating the Shevchenkovi Paradise Department of the Ministry of Internal Affairs of Ukraine in Kiev launched criminal proceedings based on deliberate light bodily harm (Part 1, Article 125 of the Criminal Code of Ukraine) and the obstruction of legal professional activity of journalists (Part 1 of Article 171 of the Criminal Code of Ukraine). Based on the evidence obtained, investigators have been reclassified from the article "Getting slight bodily harm" (Part 1 of Article 125) to "Hooliganism" (Part 2, 296 of the Criminal Code of Ukraine). He also made a statement to the Shevchenkow Regional Authority by Sodel Vladislav Aleksandrovich, a photo correspondent for the newspaper "Comersant" (Ukraine) about his confession as a victim in criminal proceedings. He was at the scene with his wife, Snisarczuk, and he also suffered the actions of the unknown. He didn't get any physical damage. During the trial, a number of investigations were carried out and a collection of information was organized on the occasion. The person pointed to by Snysarczuk and Sodel is installed. Today, by the court, maybe tomorrow, we're preparing appropriate documents for trial, we've detained him under article 208 of the Code of Criminal Procedure, and we're preparing the documents that we're going to bring to court to decide on his arrest. [[B in m in s a l in]] In turn, I personally assure Olga Juryovna that the law enforcement officers will do their utmost to restore your constitutional rights and bring the guilty to justice. At which point I emphasize that we will make appropriate decisions to all who have taken an active part in these fights. [[B in m in s a l in]] I'd like to introduce you to a well-known, distinguished national MP. On May 19, the prosecutor of the Shevchenkov district of Kiev ordered the merger of criminal conduct materials into one direction. Now, about tents. You'll also be able to ask me questions. [[B in m in s a l in]] I think they'll give you that opportunity. In addition, during the actions of the opposition forces on Sofia Square, representatives of the All-U.S. Attack Committee and the Civil Movement, Social Affairs, without appropriate documents, installed 16 tourist tents near the monument of Bogdan Hmelnick. Police officers on the basis of the Kiev Rules, approved by the decision of the Kiev City Council of 28.12.2008 at number 1051, were asked to grant appropriate permits for the establishment of tourist tents; in the absence of them, they were immediately dismantled. Yet these suggestions were ignored by the citizens. In this connection, 16 tents were dismantled by the employees of the utility company "Schachova-Operational Administration for the repair and maintenance of roadways and construction on them in the Chevchenkov district of Kiev". Police officers provided only security of public order. Four citizens were detained for violating it, with administrative protocols being drawn up. As for the assessment of the professional activities of police officers, a service investigation is being conducted and conducted. All material of the service investigation will be sent to the prosecutor’s office for a final decision. I would like to point out that in carrying out such mass action with a large number of citizens of diverse political views, internal affairs have generally worked at an appropriate level, in accordance with the powers given by law. [[Applause]] At the same time, I'd like to finish my report to you, honourable national deputies, on what I started it with. Once again, I would like to ask you to adopt the vital Peace Meetings Act of the Supreme Council, which was considered in 2009, in the first reading. Thank you for your attention.
ParlaMint-UA_2013-05-21-m0.u80	Ladies and gentlemen, please sign up for the factions. One minute is the question, two minutes is the answer. We have 14 minutes to do this. Please. Ladies and non-fractionals. Please, Vitaliy Faction Hitter, corner.
ParlaMint-UA_2013-05-21-m0.u81	Please pass the word to Valentine.
ParlaMint-UA_2013-05-21-m0.u82	Please pass it on, Valentin Nastvajchenko.
ParlaMint-UA_2013-05-21-m0.u83	It's Vitaly Call's Faction. Mr. Secretary, we're asking you not just a report, but specific answers. First answer. In accordance with the Police and Public Security Act of the State, you, as a member of the National Security and Defence Council, as well as other heads of the force, have placed personal signatures on a public security plan for every Ukrainian citizen, including on Saturdays during mass action. In this connection, the first question. As it turned out, moneylessly employed fighters were brought to the center of Kiev for the fighting of an extremist attack on peaceful people. It's not about partying. First question. The second question. How did this happen, who gave the criminal order? When armoured technicians, as you say, found signs outside borders that held honest militiamen around mass stocks. I'm reporting that all deputies were on foot. No car came to the center of town. In addition to operating machines and this armoured equipment.
ParlaMint-UA_2013-05-21-m0.u84	Thank you for asking.
ParlaMint-UA_2013-05-21-m0.u85	Give me a minute, because others won't be able to ask. Answer me.
ParlaMint-UA_2013-05-21-m0.u86	Thank you for asking. Ladies and gentlemen, I will give you my full answer. And in order to make it clear, I'm going to use the help that we've prepared exactly according to the events, the armory, it really worries you, and then I'm going to answer about the person and the person who took part in this action. On May 18, very carefully listen, please, about 12 hours before the crossing of the streets of Khrestyk, the Institute began to take the approach on the cars of the heads of opposition factions who were to lead the All-Ukrainian Action "Get up, Ukraine!" In particular, from the street of Mikhailiv, the Ukrainian national deputies, the leaders of the deputy factions of the Supreme Council, Tsragnibok, Klitschko, and from the street of the Institute to the intersection with the street of Khrestytik, came Turkinov. He was followed by two more cars of the same class, the obstetricians, or the column that was moving. This column was followed by an armored car. [[B in m in s a l in]] On this armored car, white flags were installed, with external signs similar to the flags of the All-Ukrainian Union of Fatherland. Given that these vehicles failed to meet the police's requirement to stop at the streets of Olga and the Institute, one of the employees of the DPS DAI Department of Internal Affairs.
ParlaMint-UA_2013-05-21-m0.u87	Let me finish. [[B in m in s a l in]] You're talking, Yuri Vitalevich. The microphone's on. Yuri Vitalevich! Vitaly Juryevich.
ParlaMint-UA_2013-05-21-m0.u88	The policeman made a decision. [[B in m in s a l in]] Yeah, it's good you brought them. It's good of you to bring them. Here in this video, in this picture you see, this is a police officer who drove in front of this column to stop it. I turned on the flashy shirts, but no one responded to that stop sign and moved on. This is the jeep that I'm talking about where police officers explained that Mr. Turkinov was in the service investigation.
ParlaMint-UA_2013-05-21-m0.u89	Thank you. The Fatherland faction, Lukyanchuk, please.
ParlaMint-UA_2013-05-21-m0.u90	Thank you. I would like to take the floor to Turkey's Alexander Valentinovich.
ParlaMint-UA_2013-05-21-m0.u91	I'd like to tell the Turk.
ParlaMint-UA_2013-05-21-m0.u92	In view of the fact that my last name has been called twice, I forgive an additional minute on the line. First. We demand that our video be posted by journalists just like the interior minister's video. That's the first one. The second question. Mr. Secretary, I'm addressing you, I'm here, look at me, careful. I got in touch with the police, because everything was blocked, the Dynamo Kiev, and I kept walking. I couldn’t make it to the Istituto Street in connection with the police block. At the same time, the ATR you were talking about was accompanied by a DAI car, and he was driving downtown for two hours under the protection of the police. And when he began to break into Sofia Square, where there were 50,000 rallyers. It was the opposition who stopped him so that they wouldn’t strangle people. Once again, the police were in the way. What's more, there's a police officer in the A.T.R.R. and there's a video that clearly shows that. Next question.
ParlaMint-UA_2013-05-21-m0.u93	The answer to that question. Please answer the question, who? So you ask the question, that's the answer. Lady. [[B in m in s a l in]] Come on, answer me. I'll turn it on. I'll turn it on, I'll say, let him answer, he'll sit down and we'll see everything. [[B in m in s a l in]] Ladies and gentlemen, I'll close this meeting now. Please sit down, we'll discuss all the questions. Vitaly Yuriovich, please take your seats. Tell them to turn on the video. Get in your seat! Get in your seat! Let's go! Here's your video!
ParlaMint-UA_2013-05-21-m0.u94	I'm asking you to sit down. [[B in m in s a l in]] I'm asking you to sit down, calm down! [[B in m in s a l in]] The reply is given to Oleg Tuggnibok, two minutes to the minister, and we conclude our consideration of the matter. Please.
ParlaMint-UA_2013-05-21-m0.u95	Thank you. Dear fellow MPs! Oleg Tuggnibok, faction of the All-Ukrainian Freedom Union. Why did you ask for a line? Not just because my last name was spoken, but because it applied to each of us: both the opposition representatives and the authorities. The report by the minister of the interior said that I had come to the rally from the street of Mikhailovsky. In fact, there are a lot of witnesses who can record, and I only came to the street at the intersection of Hmelnick and Pushkinsk. Attention! I got out of a car on Pushkinska Street. But before that, five minutes later, I telephoned Illenk Andrew, who was responsible for our action and told him on the phone that I would come from Mikhailski Street. What does that mean? [[B in m in s a l in]] What does that mean, society? This means that our phones are being listened to, which means that the information given to the minister by his subjects is given not by fact, but by listening to phone conversations. I demand the head of the Ukrainian Security Service.
ParlaMint-UA_2013-05-21-m0.u96	No one has spoken since the Party of the Regions. Please, the People's Deputy of God. [[B in m in s a l in]] And then it's for the Turk's lineup.
ParlaMint-UA_2013-05-21-m0.u97	A venerable Ukrainian community! We warned that if the neo - Nazi parties entered the Ukrainian Parliament, it would mean that these bandits would come out of the opposite plane and on the street. Today's video confirmed the Minister's right of speech. And we saw it, the internal affairs representative was in the car to take her to a fine. [[B in m in s a l in]] And you're making a farce out of it. There's no "Freedom" representative on the video that the opposition showed. You haven't seen this installation? You weren't there? All over the place, your people are filming the MBA, but your no-one is on that video you presented. You are proponents and provocateurs and nothing can justify that as fascists during the war, they used metal needles in hay to find peaceful residents there, like.
ParlaMint-UA_2013-05-21-m0.u98	Please finish.
ParlaMint-UA_2013-05-21-m0.u99	Dear Ukrainian community, listen! Metal rods were used to shoot into a living man’s car, as fascists were shooting hay during World War II and searching for peaceful inhabitants. This is fascism, and it will not pass in Ukraine! Thank you, Minister, for everything being investigated and all will be punished. Thank you.
ParlaMint-UA_2013-05-21-m0.u100	The time for consideration is over. You don't hear each other. Break for 30 minutes. The questions have been considered. Shame, yes! Shame, you don't want to hear from each other.
ParlaMint-UA_2013-05-21-m0.u101	Deputies! We're continuing our work. Please, the Turks. Turkov, please, a minute, a line.
ParlaMint-UA_2013-05-21-m0.u102	Mr. Head! I, the only one, do not see a minister of internal affairs who has humiliated not only the Ministry, but himself not only by cooperating with the Party of Regions and carrying out illegal acts, but rather by committing a more faithful crime, but I am sorry, a lie that is easily refuted. And I'm going to give it to both journalists and all the videos to register my car, where the route is clearly shown. I mean, the words about Tuggnibok, about Turkinov, are pure lies to the police, trying to hide their crime. Instead of answering why they took off people's trains, why they pierced the tires of cars, why they covered up the movement of armor that came against people and created real danger; why they covered up the fighters who beat journalists and who beat defenseless citizens. Instead, we heard lies and nonsense. That is why we ask the Attorney General’s room to be clear on the question of responsibility.
ParlaMint-UA_2013-05-21-m0.u103	Let me finish.
ParlaMint-UA_2013-05-21-m0.u104	It is the responsibility of both the minister and the Ministry of Internal Affairs that we demand. And we need to call on the Attorney General's room to clearly put all the emphasis and remove all these lying, false information messages that are written in the Regional Party's office.
ParlaMint-UA_2013-05-21-m0.u105	The Attorney General is on his way. He's not in Kiev. [[B in m in s a l in]] He's not in Kiev. Yes. Samilenko Yuri Pavlovich. Is it? Will you answer the question? You can put a microphone on the stand there. Or here? Let's get it over here. There's an offer. How much? 15 minutes enough to go on? We will also consider 15 minutes with the conclusion of this discussion. Let us turn to other questions. Please, Vitaly Yuriovich.
ParlaMint-UA_2013-05-21-m0.u106	Once again, I would like to address the citizens of Ukraine, our country, to you, honourable national deputies! So you can understand the Minister's position. First, I say that we will objectively deal with all the cases that have taken place. I said we'd attract all the people who provoked the fight in the center of Kiev. All of them. Besides, I want to tell our community, citizens, that they can feel at peace in the state. [[B in m in s a l in]] The police will protect their rights and responsibilities. And I'm telling you, you're going to cry in vain. Because if anything happens to you, you run to the police immediately.
ParlaMint-UA_2013-05-21-m0.u107	Deputies! We have 15 minutes. So sign up for the question. 15 minutes.
ParlaMint-UA_2013-05-21-m0.u108	I'm sorry about all the people who came to my address. I'll give you the first part. As told, more specifically, by the second. And the first part, I didn't give you the answer. So, right now, I've been to the Ministry of Internal Affairs, and I want to draw all the citizens' attention. You can go to kri.net right now, watch the video that was posted by the person we arrested and interrogated. Before going to the police, she gave her friends a comment and said if she was being detained, please post my messages on the Internet. That's why I want to say it. There's a statement I didn't want to answer because we questioned him. I didn't want to give political heat to our discussion today. But he's officially questioned. There's a protocol for this person's interrogation. Where he says that she hired him for money to protect the security of the opposition rally. So once again, we're going to deal with everyone who did this provocation in the center of Kiev. Thank you for asking.
ParlaMint-UA_2013-05-21-m0.u109	I'm asking you, the Party of Regions, Momot.
ParlaMint-UA_2013-05-21-m0.u110	Alexander Momot, 27th constituency, Dnipropetrovsk, Party of Regions. I have a question, Mr. Minister. So how many people took these actions in Kiev on May 18th?
ParlaMint-UA_2013-05-21-m0.u111	Thank you for asking. It is estimated that 51,000 people have come to action against "Ukraine without fascists". [[Applause]] The opposition rally was attended by 6,500 people. [[B in m in s a l in]] Only 2,000,200, or 2,000, of the other cities arrived, while the rest arrived from the city of Kiev and Kyiv. Please, any more questions?
ParlaMint-UA_2013-05-21-m0.u112	Freedom Union, Martinks.
ParlaMint-UA_2013-05-21-m0.u113	Please give Andrew Mishchen a word.
ParlaMint-UA_2013-05-21-m0.u114	Mishchenka, please.
ParlaMint-UA_2013-05-21-m0.u115	Andrew Mishchenko, All-Ukrainian Freedom Union. Mr. Minister, here in the picture, you can see in the photograph how the DAI escorts the BRDM without any provocation numbers. There's a lieutenant colonel behind the wheel. Please state the name of the owner of the BRDM or the military unit from where it was taken. The other one. Name the lieutenant colonel of the driver, the number of the DAI machine, and who gave the order to accompany this BRDM. The second question. On May 18, there was a mass group crime under article 296 of the second part in the execution and inaction of thousands of special divisions of the Berkut. What are the names of officials from the Ministry responsible for public safety during the May 18 campaign in Kiev? Thank you.
ParlaMint-UA_2013-05-21-m0.u116	Thank you for asking. Ladies and gentlemen, I personally received information from the head of the Kiev police, Korak Vladimir Vasilovich, that police officers had been made trying to stop the car. At the request of the police, he did not stop and made his way to the Great Juvie Street, where he was stopped by police officers. I personally gave the command not to provoke his appearance, this car, this car, to take him to the RV. The reason was that the car had no license plate. The car itself is a demilitarized car, it's in civilian circulation, so it was, once again, in the owner's possession. The owner is installed. I've already reported that he was subject to administrative protocols. Make a request, I'll give you a written answer.
ParlaMint-UA_2013-05-21-m0.u117	You ask questions, but you don't want to listen. "Fatherland", Pavlovsky.
ParlaMint-UA_2013-05-21-m0.u118	Andrew Pavlovsky. Please give the word to the general of the militia, not to the guards of the heiress. Police General Jaremi.
ParlaMint-UA_2013-05-21-m0.u119	Please.
ParlaMint-UA_2013-05-21-m0.u120	Good afternoon. Jarema, Fatherland, 212 District, Kiev. Mr. Secretary, I'm forced to say you're lying. Because I've been tracking these groups since the morning of May 18. And they're at the Dnipro Hotel at 9:00 in the morning. I asked Paslón, the deputy head of the headliner, to appoint the men of all these goons. He refused and told me that they were all under control, that people had the same right to conduct demonstrations. Then all of these people took part in the fight. Never in years of independence have the police been with the bandits. We've been through the '90s. [[Applause]] Party of regions. There are now four national MPs in the Party of Regions who have worked for a long time in law enforcement but have such a disgraceful attitude towards it.
ParlaMint-UA_2013-05-21-m0.u121	Let me finish.
ParlaMint-UA_2013-05-21-m0.u122	Finish up. [[B in m in s a l in]] Mr. Minister, please tell me, do you realize that for all these actions, you're setting up a special warehouse by throwing them into the commission of a crime, you're going to have to answer in the end. Thank you.
ParlaMint-UA_2013-05-21-m0.u123	Please.
ParlaMint-UA_2013-05-21-m0.u124	I'm not going to talk to you. I will address those who listen to me today. Ladies and gentlemen, I'd like to say the following. If you speak. As for me, I cannot say in this important hall today that the community listens to any statement by the general of the militia, who allows himself, as a national deputy, to speak like that. If he's talking about citizens, I'll give you a picture of them. [[Applause]] You can have it. And I can give you a look. To be honest, we're still setting these people up. We're re-establishing. [[B in m in s a l in]] And then what I want to say about that police lieutenant who was driving the car. When the car was stopped, police officers stopped him and prevented him from moving that car. After that, a police officer, the lieutenant colonel you showed, asked him to give a city to transport the vehicle to the Paradise Department. There was a picture taken, and they showed it to the whole state. Well.
ParlaMint-UA_2013-05-21-m0.u125	Deputies! Freedom Union, the People's Deputy of Kyde.
ParlaMint-UA_2013-05-21-m0.u126	Illenka, please pass the word.
ParlaMint-UA_2013-05-21-m0.u127	Illenka, please.
ParlaMint-UA_2013-05-21-m0.u128	The faction of the All-Ukrainian Freedom Union, the city of Kiev. That's the question before, Mr. Zharchenk's minister. How is it that we're investigating the beating of the librarians of the contents of Kiev, which I'm talking about here today from the rostrum, when three people were attacked, attacked from the back, beaten with cassettes on the head, and, in fact, people today are in a hospital in a state of distress? And we have photos, videos of those attackers. And actually, it's been a week -- zero response, the police aren't responding at all. And the second question. Why, right after the 18th number, instead of really looking for the guilty and punishing the guilty in those terrible provocations that were at stake, did the militia once again move back to terror and repression against the liberators in Kiev? They began to come at night, in a direct sense, to break down doors, mattresses, threats to tell people to go into interrogation immediately. This has been happening all over Kiev, including members of Freedom Policy, Lewchenk, Andriyk, and many others. Please explain this hammocking behavior of your fellow workers. Thank you.
ParlaMint-UA_2013-05-21-m0.u129	I, MPs, explained to you that when events took place and many statements came to us from different sides, we interrogated everyone who took part or anyone who saw the events that took place at that time. And when the national MPs came to me, I met them last night, opposition people, and they asked me, "How many people have been interrogated to be objective?" We said that more than 70 people had been interrogated. It was the measures that had to be taken. And the situation is really extraordinary. But what exaggerations, some abuse, as you say, I can't say. If you have specific cases, for a particular person where there have been such incidents, I ask you to give me this information in writing and we will deal with this. We are now conducting a service investigation into all the facts that have been heard by national deputies where they consider the police or have failed to carry out their professional duties, or have failed in full, or have exceeded their service responsibilities. On all these issues, I've already told you, but unfortunately, you're very emotional about my report that all material in the service investigation will be transferred for final decision to the Attorney General's Office.
ParlaMint-UA_2013-05-21-m0.u130	Freedom Union, national deputy of Schweik.
ParlaMint-UA_2013-05-21-m0.u131	Please pass the word to Oleg Tuggnibok.
ParlaMint-UA_2013-05-21-m0.u132	Oleg Tuggnibok, please give me your word.
ParlaMint-UA_2013-05-21-m0.u133	Mr. Zaharchenko, it was strange to hear here that you were advertising as the truth in the last institution of the provocative statement by Vadik Rumun, as if he had been hired by the opposition. I'd like to inform you and ask you if you have that information at all. The opposition has reported in the last two years, however, the so - called white church criminal group. In 2010, they took part in the breakup of elections to local councils in Vasilkov. These are the sports journalists who took part in violent action at various locations. In 2011, it was these people who broke up the elections in Boyarka, Vishnýv, Sofia Borsztejovka. In 2012, this was the break-up of the elections in Opuchov, the so-called journalists in the Kyiv District Election Commissions, the eviction of Nina Moskalenko, in which they participated. So these people have been training for more than two years at the Interstate Authority gym, where Colonel Grebennikov is head of the White Church.
ParlaMint-UA_2013-05-21-m0.u134	Let me finish.
ParlaMint-UA_2013-05-21-m0.u135	Let me finish. So, Minister, this information is completely known to all. And it's strange to me just when you're talking openly on the air about what this opposition ordered. Well, isn't it difficult for the employees of the Ministry of Internal Affairs, who are experts, professionals, if we wanted to check this information? And the second question. Comment on the incident that happened with me about listening to my phone. Thank you. () [[Applause]]
ParlaMint-UA_2013-05-21-m0.u136	Thank you for asking. Well, the answer is very simple: who does where, where the gym is, it has nothing to do with who hired them for money at all. [[B in m in s a l in]] Now, I would like to say in this room today that it's time, honored, for people to end up in a rally for money.
ParlaMint-UA_2013-05-21-m0.u137	Ladies and gentlemen, it's been 15 minutes. We agreed. Time's up. So let us conclude our consideration of the matter. [[B in m in s a l in]] Honourable deputies, in accordance with article 51, part 7, of the Supreme Council of Ukraine Rules, at the request of two MP factions, please announce a 30-minute recess in plenary: the Fatherland faction, the Freedom faction. I ask the faction leaders to enter the office of the Chief of Staff of the Supreme Council. We'll be back to work in 30 minutes. At 13 o'clock, 40 minutes. . Years. At 4:00 p.m., I'm waiting for an evening meeting.
