ParlaMint-UA_2013-07-02-m0.u1	Good morning, distinguished national deputies, invited guests of the Supreme Council of Ukraine! People's deputies, please prepare for registration. Turn on the "Race" system. [[10:01:36]] A total of 341 national deputies were registered. I declare open the morning session of the Supreme Council of Ukraine. Today is the birthday of the Ukrainian national deputy Ponomarov Andrija Viktorovich. Let's say hello to Andri Viktorovich for his birthday. [[Applause]] Announcement. Pursuant to article 60, prime. The regulations of the Supreme Council of Ukraine are being reported on the creation of the Seventh Interfractional Parliamentary Union for Hmelničina in the Supreme Council of Ukraine.".. An interfractional MP was elected as head of the Ukrainian national deputy, Sergio Petrovich Labazuk. Dear National Deputies, in accordance with article 25 of the Rules, we have 30 minutes on Tuesday for statements by authorized members of the MPs with proposals, announcements, statements, and reports. So I'm asking the factions to sign up for the performance. Please sign up. The faction of the Company of Ukraine, National Deputy Peter Simonenko. Please.
ParlaMint-UA_2013-07-02-m0.u2	Dear colleagues, distinguished voters! The world today is looking for answers to questions about how to get out of the crisis. He's looking for answers to the questions that billions of people are worried about. At the same time, the main issue is survival. The Company believes that this is the kind of issue that must be addressed, including the economic and political alliances of Ukraine, primarily by the law of the people. This right cannot be usurped by either parties or the Government or the President. That is why the Company insists that an all-Ukrainian referendum be held prior to the November summit “Ukraine-EU”, which is scheduled to be signed without an exaggeration of the Cabal Treaty on Association and Free Trade Zone. Informing Ukrainian citizens that communists have already begun to work actively to establish action groups to collect signatures to announce the All-Ukrainian referendum on accession to the Customs Union and the Eurasian Economic Community. But the realities of respectable comrades are that, today, in the Supreme Council, apart from the Company of Ukraine, all other political forces are opposed to such a decision. And for us, of course, the analysis must take into account the fact that it was the large capital parties of the “Batyshkini” region, the “UDA” had Nazi freedom, that fully coordinated its actions to meet the cable requirements of the European Community. At the same time, there is no reasonable argument in favour of association with the EU by the Government and the political forces in favour of such accession. In addition to the general spells on the so-called European values and European standards. I'll emphasize false values and double standards. This is when they talk about freedom and stage demonstrations of workers defending their rights, batons and waterworks. When human rights are discussed and they are completely monitored, all of which is the latest disclosure of the secret service programmes of Europe and the United States of America. This is when it comes to combating terrorism and selling weapons to terrorists who overthrow the legitimate Government. When it comes to peace and the bombing of peaceful cities in central Europe, as was the case with Yugoslavia. Europe, transnational corporations do not need an industrialized, educated and prosperous Ukraine, Europe needs Ukrainian blacks, Ukrainian bras and Ukrainian labour forces to stabilize its own economy on the hill of our workers and lower the rate of social protests that have swept across Europe and the whole capitalist world. According to the most modest estimates, the direct losses of the State budget of Ukraine following the establishment of a free trade zone with the European Union, from the abolition of customs duties, from the removal and reduction of tariff barriers to mutual trade, from duty-free imports of most agricultural products to 10 per cent of gross domestic product. There are no and no sources to address this deficit, except for the increase in loans. Ukraine, with a productivity level of one of the lowest in Europe, voluntarily prolongs the social and economic loop on the neck of its own people. By the end of June, Ukraine's public and government-guaranteed debt had exceeded $68.5 billion. The Association Agreement has not yet been signed, but following EU and IMF directives in Ukraine, an anti-social reform course is being implemented: medical, pension, administrative, housing, education reform and the like. Social programmes, salaries and pensions, including teachers and doctors, Chernobyl, veterans and disabled persons, children of war, are not being paid and delayed, as recommended by the European Union. The entire socially unprotected categories of people are at risk of losing their means of livelihood, millions of our citizens, with prices and tariffs, and this is also a condition for the signing of an association, to the world level. I would like to draw particular attention to the fact that Ukraine's Euro elections are based not on the common interests of ordinary people, but on the interests of the Ukrainian commodity oligarchy, primarily chemical and metallurgical, but also on the interests of the Compradorian capital of traders and importers, that is, the interests of both the authorities and those who call themselves opposition. By the end of June, I had participated in a round table on Ukrainian-Russian relations held in Moscow. Curiously, the participants from Ukraine, including those present in this Hall, were actively in favour of joining the Customs Union and, by returning to Kiev, had become strangely committed to association with the European Union and the Free Trade Zone. Double morality, double standards are, as I said earlier, European style. And more. Particularly for those who say very often that by joining the Customs Union and Eurasian Economic Area, Ukraine is losing its sovereignty and is allegedly becoming a neocolony. Both the Customs Union and the Eurasian Economic Area are economic alliances. The association with the EU and the free trade area is primarily a political union. And I want to address capital representatives and, above all, industrial capital. Please read those agreements that will be signed by Ukraine, and that means you've already had your guts destroyed by almost all of our potential. I am convinced that this is not the perspective that the people of Ukraine should offer to the responsible and truly patriotic forces. The Company, therefore, is the only party in Parliament that clearly and in principle advocates the economic integration of Ukraine into the Customs Union and the Eurasian Economic Area. This is indeed a large-scale project, which includes infrastructure, technology and scientific updates. This gives our country an undeniable advantage, both economic and geopolitical. That's what we are, the Company.
ParlaMint-UA_2013-07-02-m0.u3	The Fatherland faction, the national deputy of Yavorowski.
ParlaMint-UA_2013-07-02-m0.u4	I pass on the word of Yatsenyuk.
ParlaMint-UA_2013-07-02-m0.u5	Please, Arsenius Yatsenuk, National Deputy.
ParlaMint-UA_2013-07-02-m0.u6	Mr. Head, the national deputies of Ukraine, we are talking in this room during many plenary sessions about Ukraine becoming a member of the European Union, about the need to respect the rights and freedoms of man and citizen in Ukraine, about how each party and faction, and probably every individual national MP is fighting for happiness and good in Ukraine. But today I want to drop the whole rhetoric, both about European integration and about the agreement, and about the good things that seem to want to be done in words by the majority, the president and the government. I want to draw not only your attention, but to each of you with what is happening in our country, with what is happening in our country in terms of our citizens, in terms of our children, in terms of our parents, in terms of our country as a whole. Violent facts are not just violent facts, they're abuse, abuse of a man who was 29 years old, who was raped, beaten, and then returned to kill an innocent person in the wake of Minister Zacharychenk's name. These are those who, according to the law, honor and conscience who wear fencing, not to abuse the Ukrainians, but to protect these Ukrainians. These people should not just be brought to justice, but they must be punished. Because this is the basic thing that Ukrainians in the village of Vradyivka demand today. Few have ever heard of this village in the Mikolai region, and they demand justice. There are terrible things happening in the Mikolai region in general. I didn't go there once, now there's a faction of us, there's our deputies, it's one of the most criminogenic areas. The head of the Kruglov District Administration, I can tell you that he's covering for the bandits. The police chief covers the bandits. The D.A. and the Security Service don't just cover the bandits, they're part of these bandits. But it's not just in the Mikolai region, it's all over the country today. Throughout the country, when people are afraid of the police, people are afraid of the courts, people are afraid of the prosecutions, people are afraid of everyone who gets it. The power of this man, of this citizen who is to rule our country. I am addressing you personally, Mr. Head, and I am addressing the leader of the faction of the Party of the Regions. Mr. Volodymira Vasilovich and Mr. Alexandre Sergiyovich, Minister of Internal Affairs of Zaharchenko, you are the President's bet and stand. Minister to Parliament! You can't miss it. It's bullying people. There should be an immediate call from the Minister of Internal Affairs and a report on what is happening in Ukraine, what is happening with the Ukrainian police? Why does Berkut beat the people who defended the elections in the Karnatsky district? Why does the police cover those who beat journalists? Why did the police rape the Ukrainians? And so, Mr. Head, in order for Parliament to work today, I am addressing you, find Minister Zakharechenek and invite you to the Ukrainian Parliament. We believe that there cannot be a minister of internal affairs in Ukraine who does not control his bullying, beating, and raping the Ukrainians. You don't need a minister like that. We're asking the minister here to report. Thank you for your attention. [[Applause]]
ParlaMint-UA_2013-07-02-m0.u7	Faction of the Party of Regions National Deputy Chechetov. Alexander Sergiyovich Efraemov Please.
ParlaMint-UA_2013-07-02-m0.u8	Dear Vladimir Vasilevich! [[B in m in s a l in]] Respectable colleagues and disrespectful, screaming colleagues! I'm sorry to say this when you interrupt me. This week will bring about the outcome of the second session of the Supreme Council of the Seventh Congress, but even a smooth analysis of our activities allows us to identify the main trend that has been demonstrated during this time – that is the unwillingness of some factions to work properly. The current Parliament is updated by two-thirds and I feel that some people simply do not understand what they have come here and what they should do. Political realities are changing very quickly. Four years ago, the faction of the Party of the Regions was also in opposition, but the quality of our work was fundamentally different from that of today's opposition. We held meetings of our Government, informed the media about our vision of a solution to the problems of society. At times, they stood firm for their views, but for every bill with fists, they did not run to the rostrum. Serious, realistic alternatives to government legislative initiatives have been introduced. The position of our faction was based on arguments, not on emotion. What's going on now? The closure of the rostrum led to the opening of the second session two weeks later than planned. Of the 39 plenary days envisaged by the calendar plan, the Supreme Council worked — 26. A third of our working time is 13 days spent on pointless blockage, one day worked by the Council to cost the State two million 300,000 bracelets. Let's multiply that by the number of days of blockage, we're going to get an enormous number of 28 million 900,000. That's how much taxpayers spent days walking by MPs. A total of 39 laws were adopted at the second session, i.e. an average of one plenary day, Parliament passed one and a half laws. On the basis of the number of working days of the second session, it is estimated that each of the laws adopted has been passed by the country, consider the figure of six million 74,000 budget bracelets. Too high a price during the economic crisis. The President, the Government, the parliamentary majority make very important bills for the development of the State, and on the part of our opponents we hear only screams, thuds and whistles. Some opposition leaders initially block the Council’s rostrum, demanding a meeting with the Head of State, and then in a childish manner, they are incoherently rethinking — and are not going to that meeting, depriving themselves of the opportunity to convey the views of their voters to the President of the country. It's a road to nowhere. I therefore consider it necessary to remind colleagues, especially those who have been in this room for the first time: Parliament is a site for finding a compromise based on a clear political position supported by professional arguments, not a arena for running around the hall and a competition that cries out loud. The Supreme Council of the Seventh Congress should become a parliament of compromises. No factions present in this room have a mandate to represent the interests of the majority of voters. Therefore, we must sit at the negotiating table and find a point of contact. The tasks of the indigenous renewal of the State, including those of the Supreme Council, are outlined in the annual message of the President of Ukraine, Viktor Januković. The content of this document, colleagues, is much more important than its presentation in Parliament. Restoring sustainable economic growth, combating corruption, including at the legislative level, raising social standards is the only way to build a solidarity society and a socially oriented economy. Let us forget the presidential elections for at least a year and put the country's interests ahead of the party's narrow goals and personal ambitions. This will enable professional discussion in this room of options for optimizing electoral legislation, until a comprehensive system of electoral rules is established. Only in such circumstances will we have a qualitative discussion on the modernization of the political system of the State and local self-government through changes to the Constitution. On the agenda is an important task, such as reform of the justice system, as well as review of the law on the prosecution, on the police. The Head of State insists on the immediate adoption of the full package of bills necessary for the European integration of Ukraine. Thanks to the efforts of the authorities, the window of opportunity for our country should not be closed by the hands of the people's deputies. But the foreign policy of a competitive State cannot be based on just one vector. We cannot ignore our strategic partners in the euro area, with which trade accounts for 40 per cent of Ukraine's foreign trade. [[B in m in s a l in]] Cooperation with the Customs Union on the proposed Ukrainian power formula " 3 plus 1 " will provide us with possible access to the huge market of 170 million consumers. It's the right state position. If, of course, our minds are not clouded by hatred, as I frankly look at one part of the room, I am increasingly doubtful. And I'd like to say, "Men are what make you stand up and talk; courage is also what makes you sit and listen." Based on Churchill's statement, I'll let you know.
ParlaMint-UA_2013-07-02-m0.u9	Let me finish.
ParlaMint-UA_2013-07-02-m0.u10	On the basis of Churchill's statement, I would like to point out that there are no such savagely courageous ones among them.
ParlaMint-UA_2013-07-02-m0.u11	The Vitalia Klitschka faction, the national deputy of Palamarczuk.
ParlaMint-UA_2013-07-02-m0.u12	Please pass the word to Vitalia Klitschka.
ParlaMint-UA_2013-07-02-m0.u13	Please.
ParlaMint-UA_2013-07-02-m0.u14	Dear colleagues! To date, our main task, Parliamentarians, is to adopt laws on the signing of the Association Agreement with the European Union. And what European standards can we talk about after what is being created in the country?Oh, my God! Where the militia hides from the people, watering them with gas, shooting them off. What rights and security of citizens can we talk about? Four members of our faction have now gone to the Mikolai district to investigate the situation. We believe that the Minister of Internal Affairs should be personally responsible for the actions of law enforcement officials. Minister Zharchenko of the Ministry of Foreign Affairs needs to come to Parliament now and report on the militia's illegal actions not only in Mikolaivskya, but in the country in general. And what happened tonight is a demonstration situation. In recent weeks, there have been attacks on journalists, shootings. In the First-Majian insolent beatings and rapes, the RV is all inaction, but worse than that, with the involvement of the militia. Are there law enforcement agencies in the country? This is not only about the resignation of militia officials, but impunity for all the crimes committed by the militia continues to be even more cynical and frightening, and as we can see, national rebellions are being triggered. Law - enforcement agencies are transformed into groups of fighters that keep people in fear of peace, covering each other up. The Minister of Internal Affairs must be personally responsible for such actions. This will also be a confirmation of Ukraine’s European aspirations. Dear colleagues, about the Euro-Integration Process. The requirements of the European Union are understandable. The list of questions that have become a stumbling block is also known to all of us. These decisions would have been approved by the Supreme Council long ago if the political will of power had been involved. We're doing everything we can to get the laws passed, all the laws to sign the Association Agreement. And we're not gonna give you any chance to break down the Vilnius summit. That's why we want to see in Parliament on the government-declared days of Europe's pro-government ministers and government leadership to get an answer, I've been preparing these bills and why many of them are so unprofessional that the party of power refuses to vote for them as well. Keep going. Parliament’s own committees are obliged to improve these projects in general. I would like to remind you that the committee can decide to work in the inter-sessional period and work on European bills in public with the involvement of experts, journalists, the public. When the laws are ready, I propose to gather for the next session and approve them. To emphasize, it remains important to meet all the requirements of Euro-integration, such as the cessation of selective justice and the release of political prisoners, such as Yulia Timoshenko. I am convinced that it is up to Parliament to adopt the decisions necessary for European integration. Of course, with the involvement of the public and experts. Any attempt to introduce this process from Parliament is threatening to delay time and manipulation. As an example, the meeting in the Bank’s became an indication of a dialogue with opposition and ended with repeated empty declarations. It has been two weeks since that day, and none of the items have been moved. If the authorities, in fact, are set up for a dialogue on the adoption of European laws, they will be the best proof of that. Such laws may include the abolition of parliamentary benefits, the introduction of the pension system, and the reduction of pressure on payers to restore the economy. These are just the steps that make it real. We violated these questions yesterday on the Conciliation Council, and unfortunately they did not appear in the agenda to give hope for their consideration. This will be a separate discussion in the fall. Dear colleagues, there is still a serious task that we should consider by the end of the session. Parliament has created a TSC to investigate the attacks on journalists on May 18th and another fact here is the pressure and obstruction of journalistic activity. We demand not to block the commission, but to hear the TSC interim report in this room, it is ready. And it's important that we evaluate on behalf of the entire Parliament these unacceptable actions. Thank you for your attention.
ParlaMint-UA_2013-07-02-m0.u15	Freedom faction, National Deputy Igor Miroshnichenko. National MP Alexander Sich. Please.
ParlaMint-UA_2013-07-02-m0.u16	Alexander Sitch, Freedom, Ivano-Frankovsky. First the replica. The inadequacy of the legislative process is linked to the inadequacy of the laws proposed by most with the fact that most cannot mobilize their Canary deputies. And the inadequacy of the legislative process is related to the gross violation of the Rules and the conduct of the session. As yesterday’s head of the district council, I can say that there is no such vacchanal with the Rules in the worst rural council. And now, essentially. The country has entered a new stage of improvement in life. The real GDP index reached negative 1.3. The currency reserves of the National Bank of Ukraine decreased by 7.2 billion last year. The negative balance of the external trade balance is on the rise. The government debt increased by 4.7 billion and exceeded the national budget. The profits of enterprises in the first quarter of 2013 decreased by 4.2 billion in comparison with last year’s quarter. The damage has increased by 3 billion. And the financial result went down by 6.5 times. The treasure is empty. By the way, the treasury, not the penalty. For the past two weeks, treasury accounts have no funds to pay salaries and budget breaks. In a single Ivano-Frankivsky district, my majority county, the treasury is blocking nearly 14 million dollars. These are unrenovated gardens, schools, roads. About 80 percent of the United Nations data on Ukrainian society is below the poverty line. At the same time, 100 oligarchs of Ukraine increased their income by one billion in the previous year, and they totaled 55 billion -- Nazism in real action. I'll remind you, Nazism is supreme. In the case of German Nazism, that is racial superiority. In the case of pre-Nazi Nazism, it is the supremeity of the Donetsk criminal clan over the married Ukrainian society. Instead of working to improve the economy, the current regime sows crime in the state and international hostility. It's like a war front, a Ukrainian society against criminal authority. Two heavy drinkers in Kiev’s BSS have had a terrible accident. The chief of the Buzek Paradise administration of the Lviv area of justice, while engaged in poaching, killed two people. Today, the Dnipropetrovsk-Kiev route is covered in Petrikova, Dnipropetrovsk-Kiev, as a protest against the raiding of this year's crop. Despite the court’s decisions, the local authorities are covering this raid. The pinnacle of impunity is known in the Vrádiivka Mikolai district, where members of the Ministry of Internal Affairs raped a local woman. Burned local militia raid. The power has run out. Our deputy Leonov is now present and apparently not only he but also the deputies of each faction should be in place or resolve the situation. A ruined judicial system in the state. Local self - government is being destroyed. Ruined by the Ukrainian Parliaments. Practically, society is at the threshold of revolution. That's the war you like to talk about. And it's up to us, the entire Ukrainian Parliament, all without exception to factions, that war, and this revolution will become a bloody, Lenin-Elevological revolution, whether this revolution, as a radical change in all spheres of life and a radical change in post-Radians, post-colonial, criminalized state administration, will become a peaceful civilization. We, the All-Ukrainian Union of Freedom, are here to prevent the criminal war of the Donetsk clan against Ukrainian society and to bring about a revolution in a peaceful, civilized way. Glory to Ukraine!
ParlaMint-UA_2013-07-02-m0.u17	Ladies and gentlemen, time for speeches is up. As far as the Minister of Internal Affairs is concerned. I have information that he's in Santa. But I invited the Minister of the Interior to attend the evening meeting to attend the Supreme Council and to explain the questions that the MPs had. That is why you and I make such a decision. Yes, for the evening session I invited the Minister of Interior here to the Supreme Council. Ladies and gentlemen, as you can see, the weekly meeting schedule approved by the Conciliation Board is very busy and has a number of important issues that need to be addressed in the current plenary week. This was emphasized by the leaders of the MP factions yesterday, and the committee leaders. A few suggestions were made, I ask the attention of the people's deputies, to organize our plenary work. In particular, it was suggested that a decision should be made on the work of each plenary day before the conclusion of the day’s agenda and that changes should be made to the calendar schedule of the session in order to hold two plenary meetings, morning and evening on Wednesday. And the scheduled parliamentary hearings will be held in an act hall on Banks Street. Such a decision is provided for in article 19 of the Supreme Council of Ukraine Rules. That's why I'm asking the attention of the people's deputies. I put to the vote a job proposal every day during the full plenary week. [[B in m in s a l in]] Let's take a look at today and then tomorrow and tomorrow and Wednesday let's make a decision. And that's how we'll watch every day. So I'm voting on the job proposal today, pending the conclusion of the agenda with the simultaneous introduction to the calendar plan of the second session of the seventh call to hold on Wednesday, July 3, the evening plenary. Do you understand? I'm betting on the vote: today we're going to have a full discussion of the matter and an evening meeting on Wednesday. People's deputies, please vote. [[10:36:45]] For 306 Against 8, held – 17, not voted – 70. Decision taken. The factions. Dear colleagues, the Party of the Regions – 189, Fatherschina – 65, Vitalia Klicka – 2, Freedom – 0, Ukraine – 31, non-fractional – 19. Let's get back to work. Ladies and gentlemen, the list of issues that are proposed for discussion and decision-making, you have today. The draft Decree (Registration No. 2350a) on the calendar of the third session of the Supreme Council of Ukraine is therefore being considered. How will we view it? Please vote in favour of the summary procedure. [[10:38:10]] For-200 Against 72, held – 9, did not vote – 123. Decision taken. I give the floor to the head of the Committee on Rules, Deputy Ethics and Security of the Supreme Council of Ukraine, Volodymyr Vladimir Makenko. Two minutes, please.
ParlaMint-UA_2013-07-02-m0.u18	Dear Vladimir Vasilovich! Dear National Deputies! At its meeting on June 19, this year, the Committee considered a draft calendar plan for the third session of the Supreme Council of Ukraine, prepared in accordance with the requirements of part one of article 83 of the Constitution of Ukraine and articles 10 and 19 of the Rules of the Supreme Council of Ukraine. The draft calendar plan proposes to begin the third session of the Supreme Council of Ukraine on September 3, 2013, and to conclude on January 17, 2014. During the third session of the Supreme Council of Ukraine, the seventh call for a draft calendar plan is provided: for plenary meetings – 9 weeks, for committees, commissions and factions – 7 weeks, for the work of Ukrainian national deputies with the electorate – 4 weeks and nine hours of questions to the Government in the Supreme Council of Ukraine. The draft calendar plan for the third session of the Supreme Council of Ukraine for the seventh vocation takes into account the schedule for the parliamentary Assembly of the Council of Europe, which will take place on 30 September 2013 until 4 October 2013, which will involve the national deputies of Ukraine and will be in agreement with the parliamentary factions in the Supreme Council of Ukraine. The committee decided to submit a draft decision to the Supreme Council of Ukraine and to recommend it to the Supreme Council of Ukraine as a basis and as a whole. Please be supportive.
ParlaMint-UA_2013-07-02-m0.u19	Ladies and gentlemen, is there a need for discussion? Please sign up for factions. Please, Party of Regions, People's Deputy of Popescu.
ParlaMint-UA_2013-07-02-m0.u20	Thank you. The faction of the Party of the Regions, Popescu. Masterful colleagues! Since we have already counted the work schedule of the Parliamentary Assembly of the Council of Europe and this will not be a plenary week, and after all the other times the committee has worked very well, I ask you to vote and how you can start working more quickly on other issues. Thank you.
ParlaMint-UA_2013-07-02-m0.u21	Freedom Union, National Deputy of Schweik, please.
ParlaMint-UA_2013-07-02-m0.u22	Igor Schwaika, deputy faction of the All-Ukrainian Freedom Union. Glory to Ukraine! Society, today I can say that this calendar schedule, which has been put into order by the Committee on Rules, MPs and Security of the Supreme Council, has not worked. The committee meeting, which was scheduled for Wednesday, 19 did not take place. We all know that according to the Supreme Council Committees Act, we have a special order defined by law as to how committee meetings are convened and how they are held. I bring to the attention of the Head of the Supreme Council, the Vice-Presidents of the Supreme Council, that there was no meeting of the Committee on Rules, MPs and Security of the Supreme Council in June. The meeting of the Committee on Rules, Deputy Ethics and Security of the Work of the Supreme Council was scheduled to take place on 19 June 15h on Banking 6/8 in the Committees' premises, since only the representative of Freedom of Switzerland and the representative of Freedom of Carpunts arrived for his arrival. There were no other members of the committee at the meeting. It's about the essence of a project that's built somewhere in the towers of the Supreme Council. In fact, the Party of Regions proposes September of the month, regardless of the position of the Rules, to leave without work in the districts each month. I understand that for the Party of Regions, a week's work in the districts is vacation, and for Freedom and other opposition factions, it's a normal week's work with voters. Freedom won't support this calendar. And we require a committee to put in place a normal calendar plan. Glory to Ukraine!
ParlaMint-UA_2013-07-02-m0.u23	The Vitalia Klitschka faction, National Deputy Rosenko, please.
ParlaMint-UA_2013-07-02-m0.u24	Please pass the word to Irina Heratchenko.
ParlaMint-UA_2013-07-02-m0.u25	Irina Heratschenko, please.
ParlaMint-UA_2013-07-02-m0.u26	Dear colleagues, the strike faction advocates that Parliament really works as the whole Ukrainian society works: hard, hard and long. But another issue is when a party of authorities announces what they will be spending Europe Day instead of spending a year in this Parliament. You know, we've been walking around a lot, a lot of questions have been raised here by lobbyist parties of power, instead of putting into the agenda the issues that Ukrainian society really needs, starting with the Euro-integration laws that have to be drawn up, really, professionally, and not like the package government brings in laws that the party of power doesn't vote for and then work on. Ending not the bills that come together here, like flies on honey, the whole party of power, but, indeed, the laws on pension reform, the laws on the abolition of parliamentary benefits, the laws of those who bother people, including the discussion of the Education Act, the Law on Medical Reform. It's nothing. And so we are convinced that now we need to focus primarily on adopting those bills that are Ukraine's obligation to the Vilnius Summit to sign an association agreement. Then, really, as our colleague at Liberty said, we need to focus on committee work. And so we want to encourage our colleagues from the party of power not to block the committee's work, because we don't talk about it with you. And, Mr. Speaker, we'd like to speak to you. We don't have committees. We have such committee heads as a transporter who has never conducted a committee. Where are they going? What are they getting paid for? Let's work properly on committees to make changes to those bills that are important, along with experts, journalists, and then vote on them. What are you and I doing here? When we're sitting until the 12th night, we're beaten up and we're printing laws that no one's ever seen or read. That's why we vote against propaganda.
ParlaMint-UA_2013-07-02-m0.u27	Ladies and gentlemen, the discussion is over. As far as the proposals are concerned, we can spend the last week, it's written down, working in factions, committees, meeting with voters, and spending the last Sunday with voters and all that. As far as the committees are concerned. I think we're going to write down the leadership of the Supreme Council for September, we're going to take all the part in the committee's work. I'm going to sign this decision, and three men, we're all going to listen and work on the committees. Ladies and gentlemen, I ask your attention because we are moving on to making a decision. I'm betting on the vote on the Bill (Registration No. 2350a) on the calendar plan for the third session of the Supreme Council of Ukraine on the seventh call for adoption as a basis, and on the whole, noting that the last week is planned for work in the districts. People's deputies, please vote. Vote please! [[10:47:26]] For 322 Against – 0, held – 41, did not vote – 41. Decision taken. The factions. Region Party - 189, Fatherland - 59, Vitalia Klicka - 27, Freedom - 0, Company - 30, non-fractional - 17. A project is being considered on the Funding Regulation of the Supreme Council of Ukraine for 2013. Order number 2115a. Please report to the head of the committee, Vladimir Vladimirovich Makeyenka.
ParlaMint-UA_2013-07-02-m0.u28	Dear Vladimir Vasilovich! Dear National Deputies! According to article 85, part one, paragraph 35, of the Constitution of Ukraine, the sovereignty of the Supreme Council of Ukraine is subject to the approval of the corrosive.
ParlaMint-UA_2013-07-02-m0.u29	Vladimir Volodymyrovich, a minute. Vladimir Volodymyrovich, MPs are asking us to determine how we are going to discuss this issue. I'm going to be short-circuited. People's deputies, please vote. [[10:48:59]] For 186 Against 78, held – 3, not voted – 138. Decision taken. Dear National Deputy Igor Miroshnichenko, please read the Rules. Yes, the question is being considered by the complete program and there is a proposal for a shortcut. I have to set up a shorter procedure, whether or not to be considered, not to vote, we're looking at a full program. All of it. There will be a reply after the question is considered. Report.
ParlaMint-UA_2013-07-02-m0.u30	Honourable National Deputies, in accordance with article 85, paragraph 35, of the Constitution of Ukraine, are under the authority of the Supreme Council of Ukraine to approve the funds of the Supreme Council of Ukraine. As you know, Ukraine's State Budget 2013 Act approves the expenditure of the Supreme Council of Ukraine in the amount of 935 million 971 thousand dollars. Including, under the General Fund, 849 million 778.6,000 dollars. According to the Special Fund, 86 million 192.4 thousand dollars. At a meeting of the Committee on Rules, Deputy Ethics and Security of the Supreme Council of Ukraine on 17 April this year, a 2013 project prepared by the Office of the Supreme Council of Ukraine was discussed within the framework of the expenditure approved by the State Budget of Ukraine for 2013. And it was decided to support it and bring it to the consideration of the Supreme Council of Ukraine. A draft of the appropriate decision is given to you. Please be supportive.
ParlaMint-UA_2013-07-02-m0.u31	People's deputies please sign up for a faction statement. Party of regions, National Deputy Lutykov. Please.
ParlaMint-UA_2013-07-02-m0.u32	May I have the floor to Sukhoma?
ParlaMint-UA_2013-07-02-m0.u33	Who? Please, Jaroslav Suhi.
ParlaMint-UA_2013-07-02-m0.u34	Dear colleagues, please take the scaffolding.
ParlaMint-UA_2013-07-02-m0.u35	Well, I didn't hurt anything.
ParlaMint-UA_2013-07-02-m0.u36	And there's a standard for spending on one Ukrainian national deputy. The passage through the official delegation hall by the Ukrainian people’s deputies can be taken away completely. Small amounts of money that we can pay personally. But compensation by periodic publication for the publication of copyrights is $500 a year. Another figure is the free travel of Ukrainian national deputies. It's not a free pass, it's our expedition. 26,000 dollars a year. Count it, Kyiv-Dnipropetrovsk -- 2,000, 2,000 -- back, four, eight, ten -- it's 80,000. I don't know how it was made up or what it came out of. Please take a closer look at all these figures, and they do not match the realities in which we are with you, live, and exercise our parliamentary powers. Thank you.
ParlaMint-UA_2013-07-02-m0.u37	Please, National Deputy. The Vitalia Klitschka faction, People's Deputy Pinzenik. Please.
ParlaMint-UA_2013-07-02-m0.u38	Dear Vladimir Vasilovich! Dear National Deputies! How can you consider a document that no one has seen? I've tried several times on the Supreme Council site to find this draft ruling. He wasn't there. Even today, I didn't get this project, it was handed out to the Supreme Council just before the meeting of the Supreme Council of Ukraine. What respect can a society have for such an institution as the Supreme Council of Ukraine, which hides information not only from society but even from the national deputies of Ukraine? But I want to draw attention to the second circumstance. Parliament has been in Parliament for more than six months. It has a direct bearing on the Costorius of the Supreme Council of Ukraine. This is about lifting unjustified benefits to Ukrainian national deputies. Regrettably, he is not voting until now, and we should greatly optimize the cost of maintaining the Supreme Council of Ukraine by cancelling unmotivated benefits. In this connection, the Impact faction suggests: First. First, consider the draft Law on the Cancellation of National Deputies of Ukraine. Then rework the Koštoris project. Allowing us to get to know all the society and the people's deputies of Ukraine and then put it to the vote.
ParlaMint-UA_2013-07-02-m0.u39	The Fatherland faction, the national deputy of Lukashuk.
ParlaMint-UA_2013-07-02-m0.u40	Please give the word to the People's Deputy.
ParlaMint-UA_2013-07-02-m0.u41	They passed the word.
ParlaMint-UA_2013-07-02-m0.u42	Andrey the Pious, the Fatherland faction. Dear National Deputies! I would like to draw your attention to a few of the circumstances that accompany approval today and consideration of today’s Costorius of the Supreme Council. Well, first of all, we have again a place of flagrant violation of the Rules. I would also like to join in the observation that the national deputies and the sessional hall cannot consider a document that no one has seen except the members of the Rules. The other one. I would like to point out that there is a lack of accountability in the report of the chairman of the regulatory committee. The Regulatory Committee did not support this fund, the Regulatory Committee adopted the decision to transfer the funds to the Supreme Council for consideration, two principles of difference. Next. Unfortunately, the factions of the majority traditionally ignore and block any initiatives related to the system's review of benefits and privileges. Yes, this item does not include an increase in the cost associated with capital investments. But it does not reflect the need that today is in society or to save on the maintenance of public authorities and, above all, on the Supreme Council. Because this is the issue of the most active debate in society regarding the unjustification of taxpayers' spending and the efficiency of public authorities. The factions of the majority have ignored and blocked the possibility of passing a bill to review and reduce the cost of financing officials held at the expense of Ukrainian taxpayers. Similarly, unfortunately, from the budget committee and the regulatory committee, there is no way out of the 2043 bill, which I submitted on January 17, 2013, which deals with the cancellation of expenses related to it.
ParlaMint-UA_2013-07-02-m0.u43	Freedom Union, National Deputy of Schweik, please.
ParlaMint-UA_2013-07-02-m0.u44	Igor Schwaika, U.S. Union of Freedom. The Society, today the 2013 Treasury of the Supreme Council, sadly, has only been distributed to the national deputies today. Mr. Head, I would like to draw attention to the fact that in fact the matter has begun with the usual procedure. And contrary to the provisions of the Rules, you have now put to the vote the question of a reduced procedure, illegally, without any reason, by interrupting the consideration of a matter that has already been pending under the full procedure. Please tell the Society not only in remarks to the Supreme Council’s farm complex. The question is not so much about keeping the Dulber sanatoriums, the Orenda or the Taurus Stars, although this is an important question that our voters should know about. The "Freedom" faction of the All-Ukrainian Union has not been and will not use this complex. We are convinced that it should be used by those who need social protection, not by MPs, and not by the Supreme Council's apparatus. But the question is essentially. How can we look at the cost, if no national MP has the right to report whether it will be a co-worker of the Supreme Council's apparatus, or if it will be the head of the profiling committee, essentially the figures that are included in the agenda. Mr. Head, I would like to ask you a question first. We spoke to you on June 21st. Let us work together under the control of the opposition factions, first of all, to order the Supreme Council to have a model situation for the implementation of the Rules as our basic procedural law. And not to be compared to a bad village council that has a better attitude toward regulation than we do today. The faction of this treasure.
ParlaMint-UA_2013-07-02-m0.u45	Ladies and gentlemen, I explain that the rulings and other acts of the Supreme Council of Ukraine are taken with respect to the procedure envisaged for the first-reading of drafts from the adoption as a whole, unless another decision is taken by the Supreme Council (art. 138, part three). That is why we follow the Rules strictly. I give you my word, a minute from the non-faction, Easy. And a minute for you, and we'll make a decision.
ParlaMint-UA_2013-07-02-m0.u46	Oleg Lazko, Radical Party. Dear colleagues of the national deputies who will vote for this fund, I ask you to remember, before the elections, how each of you promised the people who voted for you to reduce the cost of maintaining the public authorities. And what do we see? Expenditure on the Supreme Council this year is higher than in the previous year. I'm looking at 150 million dollars for the social security of the people's deputies. Could you please raise one hand in this room, who needs this social security? Where are the suffering people in this room? Is it or isn't it? You see, no one raised one hand.
ParlaMint-UA_2013-07-02-m0.u47	Yes.
ParlaMint-UA_2013-07-02-m0.u48	Who is there? Show me who it is, Vladimir Vasilovich?
ParlaMint-UA_2013-07-02-m0.u49	I'll show you the application, all the material aid, most of it, let's give two bets, there is.
ParlaMint-UA_2013-07-02-m0.u50	Make it public, Vladimir Vasilovich.
ParlaMint-UA_2013-07-02-m0.u51	This is public.
ParlaMint-UA_2013-07-02-m0.u52	Make public those in need of this social assistance and let the hand of this parasite be dry, the one who wants it. That's 150 million dollars cut costs, 40 million dollars on the Supreme Council's bus base can be cut off, three times as much as you can get.
ParlaMint-UA_2013-07-02-m0.u53	Thank you. Please, Hanna Herman, one minute.
ParlaMint-UA_2013-07-02-m0.u54	Dear friends, the opposition is much and often talking about the cancellation of the MPs ’ benefits. There's a very simple way that I've been using myself, just write a statement that you're giving up all the MP benefits and we're going to save this money. I wrote this application, and during the session, I do not use any of the MP's benefits. Would you please raise your hand, as Lazko says, even though one of the opposition has refused the MP's benefits in this way? Did Cliché say no? Lashko said no, I know that. If Klitschko refused, wrote such a statement, I will ask everyone else, the opposition deputies, to support our initiative and thus we will solve this problem. And you don't have to create some extreme situations here, just everybody sits down, takes a paper card, gives up the benefits, and we save a lot of money. We ask you all to follow this example. Thank you for your attention.
ParlaMint-UA_2013-07-02-m0.u55	Ladies and gentlemen, we'll make a decision and I'll give you a minute to talk. Sit down, I'll give it to you. [[B in m in s a l in]] I'll give you a minute to make a decision. And we give it to everyone. [[B in m in s a l in]] I'll give it to you. I said I'll give it to you. Ladies and gentlemen, may I have your attention to prepare for the vote? The draft Decree No. 2115 (a) on the 2013 cost of the Supreme Council of Ukraine is put to the vote for adoption as a whole. People's deputies, please vote. [[11:03:22]] For 221 Against 92, held – 13, not voted – 81. The decision is not taken. The factions. Region Party - 183, Fatherland - 0, Hit Vitalia Klicka - 0, Freedom - 0, Company - 31, non-fractional - 7. Dear National Deputies! I would like to place a motion on the vote to refer the order to the committee for further deliberation in the committee and for introduction into the session room. People's deputies, please vote. [[11:04:27]] For 293 Return to the hall, committee. For 293, against - 1, held - 36 did not vote – 77. Decision taken. The factions. I'm asking the committee to collect proposals from all the deputies, to consider and return to this question. Now I'm giving you a minute to say "Igora Miroshnichenko," "Freedom."
ParlaMint-UA_2013-07-02-m0.u56	Igor Miroshnichenko, the All-Ukrainian Freedom Union. You better advise your President, Your Honor, I will not name your name so that the Head of the Supreme Council does not violate the Rules, Igorya refuses your President, and then the Ukrainian people will appreciate it properly. [[Applause]] Second question to you, Vladimir Vasilovich. I don't feel comfortable teaching you as a young MP, but I'm going to have to take a look. The last name is, please give me a line. Next question: This room is in constant violation of the Rules and the Constitution, if we are talking about the continuation of the session of the Supreme Council, we should clearly say that we should consider all the bills. No free bill that was tabled by our deputies for consideration and considered by the committees in this sessional room during this session was considered. You're looking at your bills, anti-Ukrainian, lobbyist, oligarchs, you don't have votes, and then you're accusing the opposition that it doesn't support your criminals in terms of Ukraine.
ParlaMint-UA_2013-07-02-m0.u57	Yeah, let's move on. Please. I'd like a minute for the Vitaly Cliché.
ParlaMint-UA_2013-07-02-m0.u58	Regarding the cancellation of the benefits, this is a brief replica, Hanna Hermann remembered this law and remembered our faction. And once again, I want to say that we were initiators of the idea of cancelling the benefits, we have to adopt a law that, in today's conditions, we're not the poorest and we shouldn't be using the benefits, so our clear position on this issue is to adopt the law so that the benefits are not at all. Thank you.
ParlaMint-UA_2013-07-02-m0.u59	Ladies and gentlemen, I ask you to vote with my cards, because there is a point, to vote in person. I want to make an announcement. The Minister of Internal Affairs will be in the Supreme Council at 1300 hours. The draft Law (Registration No. 1208-1) on the amendment of the Land Code of Ukraine and other legislative acts in the field of land relations (to simplify land clearance procedures) is being introduced. I would like to report to the head of the Committee on Agricultural Policy and Land Relations, Mr. Grigory Mikolaiovich Kaletnik. Please.
ParlaMint-UA_2013-07-02-m0.u60	Honourable Volodymira Vasilovich, distinguished fellow national MPs, the bill is designed to correct a number of technical overlaps that have led to the blocking of the procedure for the agreement of land-based documentation and the administration of land-uses of agricultural and state property. In particular, the bill eliminates conflicts over the right to manage land ownership between the Minagropolitics and the State, eliminates the rules that provide for the operation of land commissions in order to maximize the simplification of land tenure projects by a minimum number of bodies; establishes the requirement that each agreeing body should work on the project solely as part of its compliance with the legislation it controls. So if he's looking at an authority that shapes forest policy, he doesn't have the right to intervene under this bill and make observations at places where he's not responsible for them. Third. It forbids consenting authorities to require any tests, expertise, other work to be carried out. Such requirements often occur in practice when a large amount of money is needed to carry out unforeseeable searches, tests, and expertise in order to obtain a formal free conclusion. At the same time, the project foresees that both land-based documentation and cadastre services will be provided directly at the location of the land area, without raising these issues to the central level. During the drafting of the bill, 64 amendments were made to the committee's second reading. The final draft of the bill was prepared by the committee with 47 suggestions. 17 offers are rejected. The committee adopted a bill in the form of a second reading unanimously by representatives of all factions. So I propose, on behalf of the committee, to adopt the bill in second reading and generally as a law. Thank you for your attention.
ParlaMint-UA_2013-07-02-m0.u61	Thank you. Let's move on to the amendment proposals. Amendment No. 3 of the People's Deputy, Sharov. Are you insisting? Don't insist. Amendment number 5. People's MP Solvar. Are you insisting? Don't insist. Amendment 6. National Deputy Blawajki. Are you insisting? Don't insist. Amendment number 8. National deputy of the Magnificent. Are you insisting? No, it's not. [[B in m in s a l in]] Please turn on the remover's microphone. Please, please. Come on, come on, come on, come on, come on, come on, Whatever you do!
ParlaMint-UA_2013-07-02-m0.u62	Volodymyr Vasilovich, proposed edition of article 15 with the "1" sign of the Earth Code, disagrees with the authority given to him by the President's decrees. In particular, according to a decree of 08.04 by the President of Ukraine on the State Agency for Land Resources of Ukraine. In 11 years, the Government of Ukraine has introduced and administered the State Land Inventory and Information on Land Disposal. I believe that the reasons for the changes given in the Explanatory Note do not prove the need to edit the current version of the article. Fixing the specified ones.
ParlaMint-UA_2013-07-02-m0.u63	I'll bet you a vote on the amendment of the People's Deputy. People's deputies please identify themselves. [[11:13:14]] Z-87 Against - 3, held - 38, did not vote - 267. The decision is not taken. Correction rejected. Who's voting? Katsuba votes. Amendment 12, National Deputy Korge, is under consideration. Are you insisting? I can't see. No, it doesn't. What's next? Amendment 14, People's Deputy Solvar. Are you insisting? No, it's not. 14th Amendment, Salvar. Don't you insist? Where is he? Well, raise your hand, I'll turn on your microphone. Turn on the microphone.
ParlaMint-UA_2013-07-02-m0.u64	I insist.
ParlaMint-UA_2013-07-02-m0.u65	Sit down, I'll turn on the microphone and tell you. Please.
ParlaMint-UA_2013-07-02-m0.u66	I insist.
ParlaMint-UA_2013-07-02-m0.u67	You insist. A vote is taken on amendment 14 of the People’s Deputy Solvar. People's deputies, please vote. [[11:15:06]] For-89 Against 5, held – 24, not voted – 280. Correction not supported. Turn on the microphone of the people's deputy Mohnik. Please speak.
ParlaMint-UA_2013-07-02-m0.u68	Ukrainian National Deputy Andrey Mohnik, All-Ukrainian Freedom Union. Mr. Head, it is a matter of asking not to go galloping on the amendments, and if there is a question of other amendments that the committee supposedly considered, there is a question of putting them on confirmation, such as Amendment 13, which you missed. Therefore, the request to make 13 amendments for confirmation. Thank you.
ParlaMint-UA_2013-07-02-m0.u69	Andrew Mohnik, don't teach me. Second reading, we're going after the repairs. If you have an offer, I'll put it to the vote. That's why we're leaving. Nobody's in a hurry. I'll bet the vote on Amendment 13 for confirmation. People's deputies, please vote. Please vote. [[11:16:35]] For-188. Against 39, holding 23, not voting 152. The decision is not taken. The factions. Yeah, let's move on. May I see the People's Deputies of Kyde, please? Invite the national deputies to the hall. You're welcome.
ParlaMint-UA_2013-07-02-m0.u70	Thank you. Alexy Kaida, faction of the All-Ukrainian Freedom Union. Dear Volodymyr Vasilovich, our faction is asking for confirmation of Amendment 16, this is about paragraph "g", sub-paragraph "g", paragraph 1. Please bet on confirmation.
ParlaMint-UA_2013-07-02-m0.u71	Ladies and gentlemen, please sit down. People's deputies, please sit down, there's a voting process going on. There's an amendment to the 16th National MP Yuri Miroshnicka for confirmation. Please vote. [[11:18:20]] For 190 Against 38, held – 30, did not vote – 144. The decision is not taken. People's MP Mirny. Turn on the microphone.
ParlaMint-UA_2013-07-02-m0.u72	Alexander Mirny, the All-Ukrainian Freedom Union, Ukraine. Please place number 17 on confirmation. Please vote.
ParlaMint-UA_2013-07-02-m0.u73	And that's not his amendment.
ParlaMint-UA_2013-07-02-m0.u74	I'm betting on the vote of Amendment 17, National Deputy Netecka, for confirmation. People's deputies, please vote. [[11:19:28]] For 218. Against 36, held – 17, not a vote – 132. The decision is not taken.
ParlaMint-UA_2013-07-02-m0.u75	Vladimir Vasilovich, give me your word.
ParlaMint-UA_2013-07-02-m0.u76	I can't see. The amendment is under consideration.
ParlaMint-UA_2013-07-02-m0.u77	Amendment number 29, National Deputy Firemark. Are you insisting on amendment 29? You don't have to sleep. [[B in m in s a l in]] You've been sleeping a long time. National MP Mohnik, please. I'm asking and I'm looking at the hall.
ParlaMint-UA_2013-07-02-m0.u78	Andrew Mohnik, faction of the All-Ukrainian Freedom Union. Mr. Head, once again, I would like to point out that you don't have to push the gallop on the repairs and go after each one separately. The All-Ukrainian Union "Freedom" has many questions before these amendments and so we ask for confirmation of 18 amendments. And we're still asking to watch, we're reacting, and we're responding very timelyly to this one to ask and argue our questions.
ParlaMint-UA_2013-07-02-m0.u79	Come on! Let's make an offer.
ParlaMint-UA_2013-07-02-m0.u80	18 amendment for confirmation.
ParlaMint-UA_2013-07-02-m0.u81	18 Amendment, People's Deputy Miroshnick Yuri. I'll bet the vote on Amendment 18 for confirmation. People's deputies, please vote. [[11:21:35]] For the 220. Against 37, held 10, not 135.
ParlaMint-UA_2013-07-02-m0.u82	Vladimir Vasilovich, give me your word. I have an explanation to make.
ParlaMint-UA_2013-07-02-m0.u83	Yeah. For the 220, against the 37, held-10, did not vote 135. Not confirmed. Yes, what's the correction?
ParlaMint-UA_2013-07-02-m0.u84	Dear Vladimir Vasilovich, I would also like to exercise my right to explain why the committee counted and why I rejected those or other amendments. I want to draw the attention of the people's deputies, especially those who don't vote in favour of an amendment. We've taken into account the amendment of 16 Peacekeepers, the People's Deputy of Freedom, and I want to go back to her. The only thing it says here is that we counted the committee in part, you put it on confirmation, and you didn't vote. Why didn't the Hall vote? As a result, we decided that the problems with the additions involved in the removal of the land should be determined by the location of the land area. Without just supporting this amendment in the hall, we are returning to the pattern that the removal of each land will need to be addressed to the central authority in Kiev. That's why we're making these changes, which, according to the existing legislation that was adopted in the previous one, has gone so far as to say, a problem.
ParlaMint-UA_2013-07-02-m0.u85	Honorable National MPs.
ParlaMint-UA_2013-07-02-m0.u86	I don't understand why they don't support the adjustments they have.
ParlaMint-UA_2013-07-02-m0.u87	Let's go back, who made the offer?
ParlaMint-UA_2013-07-02-m0.u88	Which means a lot to the people, to the common people, who then ask for removal.
ParlaMint-UA_2013-07-02-m0.u89	Who made the 16th amendment. Who? Miroshenko. Explains, shall we go back to the 16th? Shall we go back? Let's go back. People's deputies are requested to return to the 16th Amendment to its consideration. Please vote. [[11:24:31]] For 340. Against - 0, held - 0, did not vote - 63. Decision taken. And now I'm betting on confirmation of amendment 16. Please vote. [[11:24:58]] For 340. Against - 0, held - 0, did not vote - 64. Decision taken. The factions. People's MP, Kyde.
ParlaMint-UA_2013-07-02-m0.u90	Dear Vladimir Vasilovich, 17th please return, because 17 of Netsky's amendments have also been taken into account. And this 17th amendment takes into account the only thing from the Autonomous Republic of Crimea is that once again all withdrawals should be left in the Autonomous Republic rather than placed in the capital. And it says "to the executive body of the City Council" or "to the executive authority of the Autonomous Republic of Crimea." I ask you to confirm the Committee's consideration of this amendment. Please return and confirm, and vote in favour.
ParlaMint-UA_2013-07-02-m0.u91	I'll bet you a vote to come back after Amendment 17 for consideration. Please vote. [[11:26:08]] For 239. Against 38, held – 4, did not vote – 121. Decision taken. Now I'm betting on confirmation of amendment 17, National Deputy Netecka. People's deputies, please vote. [[11:26:38]] For 265 Against 37, held – 4, did not vote – 97. Decision taken. The factions. Grigory Mikolaiovich, are there any other ones or are we moving on?
ParlaMint-UA_2013-07-02-m0.u92	No, we're moving on.
ParlaMint-UA_2013-07-02-m0.u93	People's MP, Kyde. Please.
ParlaMint-UA_2013-07-02-m0.u94	Alexy Kaida, faction of the All-Ukrainian Freedom Union. Volodymyr Vasilovich, please place on confirmation 19 the amendment of Deputy Netsky concerning paragraph 2 of subparagraph "g" of section I of the bill. Thank you.
ParlaMint-UA_2013-07-02-m0.u95	Grigory Mikolaiovich, please, an explanation.
ParlaMint-UA_2013-07-02-m0.u96	Dear national MPs, dear colleague, it's not Netsky, it's German Helena. Yes, yes, please, this is a lovely faction woman. This amendment also takes into account the interests of land collection regarding the Autonomous Republic of Crimea in order to make a decision on the ground. So I would like to confirm this amendment, which is considered editorially by the committee. Thank you.
ParlaMint-UA_2013-07-02-m0.u97	I would like to vote in favour of the amendment of the 19 People's Deputies of Netsky. Please vote. [[11:28:01]] For 259. Against 38, held - 4, did not vote - 102. Decision taken. Next up, the People's Deputy of Kyde.
ParlaMint-UA_2013-07-02-m0.u98	Thank you. First of all, I want to apologize to Deputy Necko. Please place Amendment 20 on the confirmation of paragraph 4 of subparagraph "g" of section I of the bill.
ParlaMint-UA_2013-07-02-m0.u99	Grigory Mikolaiovich, please.
ParlaMint-UA_2013-07-02-m0.u100	With its amendment, Netizka pointed out that in the Autonomous Republic of Crimea, it is necessary to agree with the executive authority of the Autonomous Republic of Crimea for environmental protection, not the central one, which also simplifies land reconciliation. I would also like to support the committee's decision. Thank you.
ParlaMint-UA_2013-07-02-m0.u101	I'm betting on an amendment by the 20th National Deputy of Netsky to support us. People's deputies, please vote. [[11:29:19]] For 260 Against 37, held – 5, not voted – 101. Decision taken. 21st, no?
ParlaMint-UA_2013-07-02-m0.u102	I won't. 29th.
ParlaMint-UA_2013-07-02-m0.u103	22nd, no?
ParlaMint-UA_2013-07-02-m0.u104	29th overturned.
ParlaMint-UA_2013-07-02-m0.u105	29th? 24th. Please, the People's Deputies of Kyde.
ParlaMint-UA_2013-07-02-m0.u106	Alexy Kaida, faction of the All-Ukrainian Freedom Union. Please place on confirmation the amendment of 24 Members of the Tabalova, regarding section "g" of part one of part one of part one of part three of article 186-1. Please bet on confirmation.
ParlaMint-UA_2013-07-02-m0.u107	Please, Gregory Mikolaiovich.
ParlaMint-UA_2013-07-02-m0.u108	Dear colleagues, distinguished national MPs, the Tabalov deputy pointed out that this part should be edited as "the location of the land in the territory of the historic and cultural destination of cultural monuments." The notion of "territory" takes into account all the land, including the formed land areas, for which there is no data on the existence or absence of objects of archaeological heritage. So it's just an additional tool in the hands of the controlling authorities, and we've taken this remaining requirement, or we've simplified the process of taking away land. So we've only taken into account editorially, and I'd like to confirm the committee's decision to simplify the land collection in places. Thank you.
ParlaMint-UA_2013-07-02-m0.u109	I'll bet the vote on Amendment 24 for confirmation. People's Deputies of Tabalov. Please vote. [[11:31:15]] For 241 Against 39, held – 22, not voted – 104. Decision taken. The factions. 25 revisions. 25th National MP Kaid is asking for confirmation. Please.
ParlaMint-UA_2013-07-02-m0.u110	Thank you.
ParlaMint-UA_2013-07-02-m0.u111	Grigory Mikolaiovich.
ParlaMint-UA_2013-07-02-m0.u112	These are, well, both corrections are the same as Koleschenko, the Necsky. So if we've supported one, another to deny it, it's just illogical, honourable colleagues. These are analogous amendments. Thank you. Please be supportive.
ParlaMint-UA_2013-07-02-m0.u113	I'm betting on amendment number 25, People's Deputy Koleschenka, to support this amendment. Please vote. [[11:32:18]] For 236 Against 38. It's held up to six. They didn't vote - 122. Decision taken. The factions. Amendment 29. Amendment 28? Amendment number 26, National Deputy of Netsky. Grigory Mikolaiovich, 26.
ParlaMint-UA_2013-07-02-m0.u114	The National Deputy Netecka in this amendment also made a proposal for areas of forestry: they are subject to agreement with the central executive authority, which implements forest management policies, and in the Autonomous Republic, with the executive authority of the Autonomous Republic, not the central authority. So all the amendments are aimed at simplifying the procedure for moving to the location of the plots that I've been talking about since the beginning of the speech. Please support the proposal of the committee and the National Deputy of Netsky.
ParlaMint-UA_2013-07-02-m0.u115	They found out. I'm betting on the vote to support the 26th amendment, the National Deputy of Netsky. Please vote. [[11:33:58]] For 241 Against 33. It's been held up to 16. There was no vote — 113. Decision taken. The factions. Amendment 29, People's Deputies.
ParlaMint-UA_2013-07-02-m0.u116	27th. Vladimir Vasilovich, distinguished colleagues of the national MPs! The 27th amendment is the same as the 26th. It was only about the body of the forest, and it was about the body of the water farm. That's why. similar amendments, only the second body that operates in Crimea. Please support the decision of the committee and the deputy of Netsky. Thank you.
ParlaMint-UA_2013-07-02-m0.u117	I'd like to ask the people's deputy, Kaidi. What has not been discovered? Why should this take time to consider the matter? Please, the People's Deputies of Kyde. Explain.
ParlaMint-UA_2013-07-02-m0.u118	That's the MP's right.
ParlaMint-UA_2013-07-02-m0.u119	And the right MP? Right.
ParlaMint-UA_2013-07-02-m0.u120	Thank you, Vladimir Vasilovich. Alexy Kaida, faction of the All-Ukrainian Freedom Union. Dear Vladimir Vasilovich! These are all questions, which are the result of a vote in favour of short-term bills. This is the result. Because it was dumped. First of all, it's a raw bill; a bill that would not be voted by you in the first reading and in general in the second. I mean, by the majority. And that's why there are so many amendments. This bill has to be put on pre-processing, on second re-reading, not writing, slapping holes. That is why we place every amendment to be confirmed so that the chairman of the committee can explain every amendment so that the shortcomings that have been proposed by the authors of the bill can be seen. Thank you.
ParlaMint-UA_2013-07-02-m0.u121	Thank you.
ParlaMint-UA_2013-07-02-m0.u122	I'm betting on the vote to amend the 27th National MP of Netsky for confirmation. Please vote. [[11:36:13]] For 259. Against 35, holding – 4, not voting – 106. Decision taken. The factions. 28th National MP Lazko, please.
ParlaMint-UA_2013-07-02-m0.u123	Oleg Lazko, Radical Party. Dear Vladimir Vasilovich! You're asking what's wrong with the remarks made by colleague Qaeda and other national MPs. I think you might be told about this by the people of the sunny Crimea. You can't reach the beaches in Crimea today because they're 5 meters high. The forest, the relict forests, are cut off because in these relict forests they build new species. And that's why these amendments that are now being proposed to give the Crimean authorities consent to the removal of the self-sustaining forest plantation will not be left in the Crimea Forest tomorrow at all. Crimsons and me, including a mass appeal to vacchanals, which are made with many years of green plantings in Crimea. And that's why I'm also proposing to my colleagues at Strike Who are supporting these amendments. Please consider whether you can enter the forest in Crimea today, or if you can reach the sea. No, you can not, for there are private dwellings and five - foot [5 m] fences. I suggest we stop this vacchanal.
ParlaMint-UA_2013-07-02-m0.u124	At the end of the 28th amendment, the national deputy Lazko made no proposals. So let's move on. 29th National Deputy Firemark. Are you insisting? No, it's not. Amendment 30, People's MP Melnik. Don't insist. Amendment 33, Sabi People's Deputy. Please turn on the microphone.
ParlaMint-UA_2013-07-02-m0.u125	Igor Sabiy, All-Ukrainian Freedom Union, Hmelnicke District, 189th District. Please bet on confirmation, I insist.
ParlaMint-UA_2013-07-02-m0.u126	I'll bet you a vote.
ParlaMint-UA_2013-07-02-m0.u127	Vladimir Vasilovich, I want to say for a moment that Igor Mikhailovich is a member of our committee that voted in favour of these amendments. And in this case, if we vote now, because we rejected Igor Mikhailovich Amendment 31. 33rd. If you vote, it goes against the amendment that we took into account your member of the Peacekeeper faction. So I thank you and I want you to.
ParlaMint-UA_2013-07-02-m0.u128	I'll bet you a vote.
ParlaMint-UA_2013-07-02-m0.u129	18th.
ParlaMint-UA_2013-07-02-m0.u130	I would like to vote on amendment 33 of the Sabia People's Deputies. Please vote. [[11:39:35]] For-58 Against – 2, held – 56, did not vote – 287. The decision is not taken. The factions.
ParlaMint-UA_2013-07-02-m0.u131	I'm sorry, Igor Mikhailovich. This is Miroshnichenko Yuri. I'm sorry.
ParlaMint-UA_2013-07-02-m0.u132	Amendment 34 of the Orotyuk People's Deputy. Turn on the Orphan microphone.
ParlaMint-UA_2013-07-02-m0.u133	Yuri Orotyuk, All-Ukrainian Freedom Union, Cherkaščina. I insist on the voting amendment number 34 in order to study paragraphs 13-18 of part "g" of the first chapter of the first bill to study. What are you talking about? In fact, the law places archaeological activity in Ukraine outside the law. Ukrainian archaeologists say that if this bill is passed, archaeological expertise will actually be put outside the law. Not only does this conflict with the ratified European Convention for the Protection of an Archaeological Heritage, but it also destroys our entire historical heritage because most archaeological objects remain unexplored. Removing. So I insist that this point be removed. Thank you.
ParlaMint-UA_2013-07-02-m0.u134	Yeah. Please.
ParlaMint-UA_2013-07-02-m0.u135	I'll explain, Vladimir Vasilovich. The point is that this is not the case, because in this bill, which we are amending to the past laws, there will be no collisions, and it will be designed to reduce the number of bodies that are being considered. But if the land is considered and it refers to some architectural monuments or other, it is mandatory and it is prescribed in the law here, and we have considered on the committee that there is necessarily an expert conclusion to architecture. Thank you.
ParlaMint-UA_2013-07-02-m0.u136	I'll bet you a vote.
ParlaMint-UA_2013-07-02-m0.u137	And archaeology.
ParlaMint-UA_2013-07-02-m0.u138	I'll bet you a vote.
ParlaMint-UA_2013-07-02-m0.u139	And archaeology!
ParlaMint-UA_2013-07-02-m0.u140	Don't shout! Well, you asked questions, you listened, now vote. What are you yelling at? I would like to vote on amendment 34 of the People's Deputy Orphan. People's deputies, please vote. [[11:42:05]] Z-70. Against - 1, held - 67, did not vote - 265. The decision is not taken. Amendment No. 36 of the People's Deputies of Kolesnick. 35th, Mohnika. Please.
ParlaMint-UA_2013-07-02-m0.u141	Andrew Mohnik, faction of the All-Ukrainian Freedom Union. Mr. Head, please place the 35th amendment of the Tabalov People's Deputies for confirmation. Delete part "g" of part one of part one of part seven of article 186-1. And, Mr. Head, I would like to point out to you that you do not fully comply with the Rules. When it comes to factions, you don't announce the results by factions. The voters at each meeting are concerned about what the factions were voting in the same way. Please announce after each vote, as the factions voted. To make it clear, for example, is the position taken by Communists, who today play the oligarchic regime and vote with them. Thank you.
ParlaMint-UA_2013-07-02-m0.u142	Roger that. Please explain.
ParlaMint-UA_2013-07-02-m0.u143	35 we can't accept the correction. Because it is rejected by the committee because it is the opposite of amendment 18, which we have already considered. Thank you.
ParlaMint-UA_2013-07-02-m0.u144	I'm betting on the vote on amendment 35 of the Tabalov People's Deputies for confirmation. Please vote. [[11:43:50]] For 1 Against 49, held – 57, not voted – 297. The decision is not taken. The factions. Postfaction is 1. Yes, the amendment of the 36 people's deputies of Kolesnick. Are you insisting?
ParlaMint-UA_2013-07-02-m0.u145	Overruled. No, it's not.
ParlaMint-UA_2013-07-02-m0.u146	No, it's not. What's that? 37th People's Deputy Melnik, she's accounted for. For confirmation? Please.
ParlaMint-UA_2013-07-02-m0.u147	Please vote for confirmation.
ParlaMint-UA_2013-07-02-m0.u148	I'm betting on an amendment to the 37th National MP of Melnik for confirmation. Please vote. [[11:44:57]] For 211 Against-37, held-8, did not vote-146. The decision is not taken.
ParlaMint-UA_2013-07-02-m0.u149	Vladimir Vasilovich, I thought.
ParlaMint-UA_2013-07-02-m0.u150	The factions. Region Party - 182, Fatherland - 1, Vitalia Klicka - 16, Freedom - 0, Company - 0, non-fractional - 12.
ParlaMint-UA_2013-07-02-m0.u151	Dear Vladimir Vasilovich, distinguished colleagues, please, we have studied and considered everything further on the committee. Melnik Stanisław Anatoliyovich made an offer in 37th: "to demand additional materials and documents when the project agreed to the land collection system." Well, are we, considering this amendment, going to torture people, demand extra material? So the committee turned it down. And Melnik Stanisław Anatoliyovich agreed that it was unnecessary to demand something additional when reviewing the documents. So I'd like to ask you to support me. Well, this is clearly done to simplify the procedure. Please come back and vote and support the rejection of this amendment.
ParlaMint-UA_2013-07-02-m0.u152	What offer? Come back. I would like to return to the vote for the consideration of Amendment 37. Please vote. [[11:46:39]] For 257 Against 3, held – 8, did not vote – 135. Decision taken. We're back. The factions. Region Party - 182, Fatherland - 8, Vitalia Klicka, Freedom - 0, Company - 30, non-fractional - 19. Now I'm betting.
ParlaMint-UA_2013-07-02-m0.u153	Now I'm asking you to say no. Confirm the deviation.
ParlaMint-UA_2013-07-02-m0.u154	Now I'm putting Amendment 37 on confirmation. Please vote. [[11:47:27]] For 253 Against 31, held – 5, not voted – 104. Decision taken. Correction supported.
ParlaMint-UA_2013-07-02-m0.u155	We've got it. I'd like to ask you to be clear about the transcript. I asked to support the committee’s decision, not the amendment. For when they voted and did not support it, they gave support to the committee for its decision. The committee’s decision to reject the amendment was now supported. Thank you.
ParlaMint-UA_2013-07-02-m0.u156	39. 38. Please, People's Deputy Mirny.
ParlaMint-UA_2013-07-02-m0.u157	Alexander Mirny. The All-Ukrainian Freedom Union. Volodymyr Vasilovich, please place on confirmation 38 the amendment concerning part seven, paragraph 3, of article 186-1. And I would also like to draw your attention when you're asking why we're suddenly raising the issue of amendment voting, and I'll tell you why. Because even members of the committee do not read all the laws, but the hall is all the more. And when we look at the amendments, we have to make the content of the amendments clear to the Ukrainian people, and we have to support the factions, one or the other amendments. And what we're doing right now is right. Because the committee doesn't mean it's being held together by the hall, and you've already seen it. So please, Vladimir Vasilovich, and thank you for putting them on the table. And I'm proposing all the bills today to go through like this, and that's the right thing to do. Thank you for your attention.
ParlaMint-UA_2013-07-02-m0.u158	A vote is taken in favour of the amendment of the people’s MP Melnika number 38. Please vote. [[11:49:51]] For 248 Against 32, held – 5, not voted – 117. Decision taken. The factions. Region Party - 182, Fatherland - 0, Vitalia Klicka – 20, Freedom – 0, Company – 31, non-fractional – 15. Amendment 39. National Deputy Blawajki. Please turn on the microphone.
ParlaMint-UA_2013-07-02-m0.u159	Mikhail Blaujki, the All-Ukrainian Freedom Union. As soon as our opposition amendments are made to the bill, none pass and the committee has not voted for one. Grigory Mikolaiovich, please tell me why you didn't take my amendment into account on the committee, too. I asked you to take into account and require any tests of expertise and other work. Why didn't you put it to the vote? What is a bad correction? I demand a vote.
ParlaMint-UA_2013-07-02-m0.u160	Please, Gregory Mikolaiovich.
ParlaMint-UA_2013-07-02-m0.u161	Dear colleague, your amendment is exactly the opposite of what you said, in section H, part one of the sections you ask to exclude. And the exclusion means that we're going to involve all the experts to draw conclusions and multiply again, and we're going to produce a lot of documents. So your amendment runs counter to the number 18 and number 37. I'd like you to agree to that, and we've taken many of your amendments into account. Thank you.
ParlaMint-UA_2013-07-02-m0.u162	I'm betting on the vote for the amendment of the People's Deputy Blavajko. People's deputies, please vote. Amendment 39 shall be voted on. [[11:51:57]] For-65 Against - 5, held - 56, did not vote - 267. The decision is not taken. The factions. Region Party 8, Fatherland 25, Vitaly Klicka Strike 0, Freedom 28, Company 0, non-fractional 4. Amendment 40 counted. Who? [[B in m in s a l in]] National MP Golovko please, Amendment 40.
ParlaMint-UA_2013-07-02-m0.u163	Mikhail Golovko, the All-Ukrainian Freedom Union. Volodymyr Vasilovich, request for confirmation of amendment number 40 of Melnik’s national deputy.
ParlaMint-UA_2013-07-02-m0.u164	Grigory Mikolaiovich, will you comment?
ParlaMint-UA_2013-07-02-m0.u165	No, it's not. This amendment is included. I'd like support, because it's doing all the tests, expertise and work. This is the correct amendment, and I would like to support the committee's decision and this amendment. Please vote in favour.
ParlaMint-UA_2013-07-02-m0.u166	May I have your attention, please? I'm betting on the vote to amend the 40 people's MP Melnik for confirmation. Please vote. [[11:53:23]] For 245 Against 35, held – 5, not voted – 115. Decision taken. The factions. Region Party - 178, Fatherland - 0, Vitalia Klicka – 22, Freedom – 0, Company – 30, non-fractional – 15. Amendment of 41 People's Deputies of Blaujko. Are you insisting?
ParlaMint-UA_2013-07-02-m0.u167	I insist on voting, and I repeat again, I ask that you pay attention to the proposals made by opposition deputies. Thank you.
ParlaMint-UA_2013-07-02-m0.u168	I would like to vote on the amendment of 41 national members of Blavatsky. People's deputies are asked to determine by vote. [[11:54:20]] For-53 Against 3, held – 64, not voted – 280. The decision is not taken. Factions: Region Party Two, Parenthood 15, Strike Zero, Freedom 31, Company Zero, Non-faction Five. Amendment 42. [[B in m in s a l in]] Who's that? National MP Marcinkov, Amendment 42.
ParlaMint-UA_2013-07-02-m0.u169	I would like to ask you to confirm this amendment because I think Melnik was actually the author of this bill, and why wasn't this bill so written on the first reading that we didn't discuss so many amendments today? As for this amendment, it must be rejected because it will harm local self - government. Therefore, the request to the deputies does not support the amendment.
ParlaMint-UA_2013-07-02-m0.u170	Please.
ParlaMint-UA_2013-07-02-m0.u171	With Amendment No. 42 of Melnik Stanislav Anatoliyovich we took only and took it into account in an editorial manner, we only took three words, that each body was considering and agreeing to the project by the land administration on its own and independently, and we added: in a legal term. If we don't support this amendment, we're going to take away the three words "determined by law" and then the official is not going to be restricted by any term. I would ask for support, it is edited and I would like to vote in favour of this amendment.
ParlaMint-UA_2013-07-02-m0.u172	I'd like to vote on the amendment of 42 people's MP Melnik for confirmation, please vote. [[11:56:19]] For 249 Against 34, holding back five, not voting 114. Decision taken. The factions. Region Party – 179, Fatherland – 3, Hit by Vitalia Klicka – 23, Freedom – 0, The Company – 28, Postfaction – 16. Amendment 43 - counted. Amendment 44, Mellnik's national deputy, dismissed. You want me to vote?
ParlaMint-UA_2013-07-02-m0.u173	He doesn't insist.
ParlaMint-UA_2013-07-02-m0.u174	Don't insist. Let's move on. Then we have the 45th Amendment, the People's Deputies of Peacekeeper. People's deputy Qaeda, please.
ParlaMint-UA_2013-07-02-m0.u175	Thank you, Vladimir Vasilovich. Alexy Kaida, faction of the All-Ukrainian Freedom Union. Please submit an amendment No. 45, People's Deputy Mr. Jury Romanović, on sub-paragraph (a) of paragraph 2, which reads as follows: "The name of the articles and paragraphs (b) and (d) of the first article 14 shall be set out in such an edition."--and beyond the text. Thank you. Please bet on confirmation.
ParlaMint-UA_2013-07-02-m0.u176	I'm betting on the vote of Amendment 45, the People's Deputy of Peacekeepers, for confirmation. Please vote. [[11:58:04]] For 246 Against 37. Hold on to five. There was no vote – 104. Decision taken. The factions. Region Party - 178, Fatherland - 0, Vitalia Klicka - 24, Freedom - 0, Company - 29, Postfaction - 15. Amendment 46, People's Deputy of Schnebiekki. Please.
ParlaMint-UA_2013-07-02-m0.u177	Oleg Knaczykki, the All-Ukrainian Freedom Union. Dear colleagues, the proposed edition of article 14 of the Ukrainian Land Administration Act proposes to replace the institution of land licensing with certification. What does that mean? Well, first of all, it violates the principle of the stability of land legislation, because we see that the rules are changing very often lately. And secondly, that means that all the land-based organizations will have to pack their suitcases with money and go to Kiev. This creates conditions for corruption. So it's proposed. The point of my amendment is not to make these changes. In addition, these changes will be costed from the budget. That's why I insist on the amendment. Thank you.
ParlaMint-UA_2013-07-02-m0.u178	I'd like to explain, Reverend Volodymyr Vasilovich, distinguished colleagues. The point is that the valid laws and deregulation that has been adopted have simplified the procedure of certification rather than licensing. And we have practically completed the certification of all relevant specialists in Ukraine today, so coming back again is really going to be a huge expense. So this system works, and it's already finished. I'd like that. This amendment has been rejected and would have been asked not to support it. Thank you.
ParlaMint-UA_2013-07-02-m0.u179	I would like to vote on amendment 46 of the People's Deputy. People's deputies, please vote. [[12:00:23]] For-58 Against 3, hold on, 53, not voting, 284. The decision is not taken. Ladies and gentlemen, two amendments have remained in this law, which has been rejected. This is an offer to finish, and I will announce a break. Amendment number 47. Please, Head, 47th Amendment.
ParlaMint-UA_2013-07-02-m0.u180	Mikhail Golovko, the All-Ukrainian Freedom Union. Deputies! There's a note to Amendment 47, which. "Performing certification of landowner engineers, geodesist engineers, forming a qualified commission and maintaining a State Register." This involves the creation of another corrupt authority that will burden the procedure itself. Hence, there is a note of the amendment and a request for confirmation. Thank you.
ParlaMint-UA_2013-07-02-m0.u181	Ladies and gentlemen, may I have your attention? I'm betting on the vote to amend 47 of Melnik's people's deputies for confirmation.
ParlaMint-UA_2013-07-02-m0.u182	It has to be confirmed, please vote.
ParlaMint-UA_2013-07-02-m0.u183	Please vote. [[12:01:48]] For 241 Against 36, held – 4, not voted – 119. Decision taken. The factions. Region Party 178, Fatherland 2, Vitalia Klicka 20, Freedom 0, Company 27, non-fractional 14. Amendment 48, People's Deputy. Please turn on the microphone.
ParlaMint-UA_2013-07-02-m0.u184	Oleg Knaczykki, the All-Ukrainian Freedom Union. I insist on this amendment with the same arguments as before. And I would like to point out that if we don't take the correction into account, it will cause a redistribution of land-use activities, and it will contribute to corruption in land-based activities. Thank you.
ParlaMint-UA_2013-07-02-m0.u185	I'll bet you an amendment to the 48th People's Deputies. Please vote for the people's deputies. [[12:02:56]] Z-62 Against – 2, held – 53, did not vote – 283. The decision is not taken. The factions. Region Party - 1, Fatherland - 22, Vitalia Klicka - 0, Freedom - 32, Company - 0, non-fractional - 7. Amendment 49, partially counted. Kyda, National Deputy.
ParlaMint-UA_2013-07-02-m0.u186	Thank you. Alexy Kaida, faction of the All-Ukrainian Freedom Union. Please, Volodymyr Vasilovich, for confirmation 49th amendment of the People's Deputy Miroshnicka Yuri Romanović. There's a lot of, I'm not going to count, each one on hand is given, the point is, this is about sub-paragraph "a" of paragraph 3. Please bet on confirmation.
ParlaMint-UA_2013-07-02-m0.u187	Ladies and gentlemen, I am putting to the vote the amendment of 49 national deputies Yuri Miroshnicka for confirmation. [[12:04:09]] For 240 Against 37, held – 7, not voted – 117. Decision taken. The factions. Region Party - 181, Fatherland - 0, Hit Vitalia Klicka - 20, Freedom - 0, Company - 28, non-fractional - 11. Amendment 50, last amendment rejected. National MP Miroshnichenko Yuri
ParlaMint-UA_2013-07-02-m0.u188	Don't insist.
ParlaMint-UA_2013-07-02-m0.u189	A black man, a national MP. Turn on the microphone.
ParlaMint-UA_2013-07-02-m0.u190	Oleg Černjakov, All-Ukrainian Freedom Union, Carpathian. Please place the 51st Amendment of Yuri the Merchant for confirmation.
ParlaMint-UA_2013-07-02-m0.u191	50. We're looking at it now.
ParlaMint-UA_2013-07-02-m0.u192	They agreed to 50. It's rejected. They agreed.
ParlaMint-UA_2013-07-02-m0.u193	Agreed. 51. 51 please, Grigory Mikolayovich. 51 revisions. Please.
ParlaMint-UA_2013-07-02-m0.u194	Amendment 51. This is an agreement between the land system and the Earth Code and the laws on land. This is a harmonised consideration. And that's why we can't help but vote it out, not support it, because that's not going to be in line with these laws. This balances legislation. I'm asking you to support 51 amendments that are considered by the committee. Please support her now, members of the National People's Party.
ParlaMint-UA_2013-07-02-m0.u195	I'm putting to the vote, honourable deputies, amendment 51, national deputy Yuri Miroshnicka for confirmation. People's deputies, please vote. [[12:06:11]] For 245 Against 37, holding – 6, not voting – 114. Decision taken. The factions. Region Party 178, Parenthood – 5, Vitalia Klitka – 20, Freedom – 0, Company – 29, non-fractional – 13. Rejected amendments are no longer in this law. People's MP Smithukh, please.
ParlaMint-UA_2013-07-02-m0.u196	Dear Vladimir Vasilovich, I ask you to return to Amendment 18, because it is important to this bill, its hall is not supported. And I want Gregory Mikolaiovich to comment on the need for this amendment. This is a very important amendment. Please come back and support the hall. Thank you.
ParlaMint-UA_2013-07-02-m0.u197	Grigory Mikolayovich, amendment number 18, explain. 18th.
ParlaMint-UA_2013-07-02-m0.u198	Amendment 18 is the amendment of the national MP Yuri Romanović Miroshnicka. We included her on the committee in part. And here in the hall we supported her. So if there's a need to put it back up again, it's important that this amendment regulates the issue of dispossessing in coastal protection zones, the lines of the natural reserve fund, and it also takes into account the possibility of dealing with these issues by local authorities at the site of the land. So I'd like to support you if the national MP Smith puts it on.
ParlaMint-UA_2013-07-02-m0.u199	Are you taking down your offer?
ParlaMint-UA_2013-07-02-m0.u200	She's supported. The committee supported it. Bet on the vote, confirm.
ParlaMint-UA_2013-07-02-m0.u201	And you say you supported it. Ladies and gentlemen, if I vote in favour of the vote, I will return to Amendment 18. Please vote. This is how they bring it in, that they have not supported it. [[12:08:42]] For 244 Against 39, held – 6, not voted – 113. Decision taken. The national deputy filed, and the committee manager supported it. What else do you need? Don't scream. Vote. I'm betting on the vote of Amendment 18, National Deputy Yuri Miroshnicka for confirmation. Please vote. [[12:09:27]] For 251 Against-35, held-1, didn't vote-108. Decision taken. The factions. Region Party - 182, Fatherland - 1, Vitalia Klicka - 22, Freedom - 0, Company - 30, non-fractional - 16. What proposals do the deputies have?
ParlaMint-UA_2013-07-02-m0.u202	In general.
ParlaMint-UA_2013-07-02-m0.u203	Please, Deputy Omelyanenko. Yeah, right? Omelyanovich, please.
ParlaMint-UA_2013-07-02-m0.u204	Dear Volodymyr Vasilovich, dear colleagues! I very much propose and ask you to go back to amendment 37, the Mellnik People's Deputy, because this amendment was supported on the committee. We voted twice for her, but it is not clear whether this amendment is supported in the hall or rejected. So to eliminate all misunderstandings, the amendment is very important. I would like to point out that this amendment does not allow organs to consider documents. In agreement with the project, require documents that are not provided for by law. So I strongly urge you to return to this amendment and to support it with a hall. Thank you.
ParlaMint-UA_2013-07-02-m0.u205	Grigory Mikolaiovich, please.
ParlaMint-UA_2013-07-02-m0.u206	Thank you, Volodymyr Vasilovich, thank you to the National Deputies. This is the 37th amendment in which we had a discussion6 if we voted in favour, it was he who supported whether he rejected it; he supported the committee's decision or the proposal for confirmation. So for the sake of clarity and for the transcript, I would like to ask, Vladimir Vasilovich, once again, to put to the vote 37 amendments for which national MPs are so insistent, because they are really important and must be so as not to require additional materials from officials. So please go back to 37 amendments to Melnik and count it. Although I remember, we took her into account and supported her. Thank you.
ParlaMint-UA_2013-07-02-m0.u207	You have 37 corrections? 37? National MP Mirny, please.
ParlaMint-UA_2013-07-02-m0.u208	Dear Vladimir Vasilovich. Alexander Mirny, the All-Ukrainian Freedom Union. First, there's an offer to go through all the adjustments to the end, and then go back to looking at the amendments that we're dealing with, because we're just really confusing. Second of all, 37th. Indeed, we voted twice and we cannot understand what we voted for – it is true. But we will not support it. And the last thing I want to say. What is this bill that, when a reputable tribune reporter says that without these amendments, the law will not work, what law did we vote for in the first reading? How is it prepared, how is it presented, how is it written?Oh, my God! Well, at last, thank God we've gone through the repairs and finally people see the laws coming! Thank you.
ParlaMint-UA_2013-07-02-m0.u209	Ladies and gentlemen, I understand that the break is over, so let's take a look and get some rest. I'm betting on confirmation of amendment 37 of the Melnik People's Deputy. For confirmation. Please vote. We're back, we're back for confirmation. [[12:13:19]] For 270. Against 36, held – 6, not voted – 91. Decision taken. The factions. Region Party 185. "Paternal" is 13, "Vitalia Calla" is 24, "Freedom" is 0, Company is 31, non-factional is 17. All the amendments that have been considered. The amendments that have been rejected are all considered. People's MP, Kyle, come in.
ParlaMint-UA_2013-07-02-m0.u210	Thank you, Vladimir Vasilovich. Yes, all the amendments that have been rejected have been considered, but there are amendments that have been taken into account by the committee, with which, for example, our faction disagrees, and so we will ask them to be confirmed. Therefore, under our Rules, I ask that the amendment No. 52 of the Omelyanović People's Deputies on paragraph 22, part two, article 5 of the Ukrainian Law on Protection of Cultural Heritage, continue with the text. Thank you.
ParlaMint-UA_2013-07-02-m0.u211	I'll bet you a vote. What a proposition, Gregory Mikolaiovich.
ParlaMint-UA_2013-07-02-m0.u212	Support me. These are the corrections that are taken into account, this is just the position of one of the factions and it's legal. So I'm just asking you to support the committee's decision.
ParlaMint-UA_2013-07-02-m0.u213	I'm betting on an amendment to the vote of 52 People's Deputies of Omeljanović for confirmation. Please vote. [[12:15:10]] For 263 Against 36, held – 10, did not vote – 92. Decision taken. I'm betting on the voting bill. Do you have a replica? Please, the National MP of the Marches, and we will vote.
ParlaMint-UA_2013-07-02-m0.u214	The All-Ukrainian Freedom Union. The "Freedom" faction of the All-Ukrainian Union requires all the amendments to be made for confirmation and, in particular, we have not considered the 53 amendments of the People's Peacekeeper. So I'm asking you to put it on confirmation. Therefore, according to the Rules, we have to work, so let's make amendment number 53 Peacekeepers, namely: paragraph 2 of sub-paragraph "a" of paragraph five, in the following wording: 11/1 agrees with the documentation by the Land Authority in cases defined by the Earth Code and the Ukrainian Land Administration Act. And, Volodymyr Vasilovich, we ask you to abide by the Rules and make all the amendments as required, this is the right of members of the Supreme Council to ask questions for confirmation. Therefore, I ask that the Rules be enforced and I ask you to announce which factions vote in favour of any amendments. This is our legal requirement, which we demand. Thank you.
ParlaMint-UA_2013-07-02-m0.u215	Ladies and gentlemen, may I have your attention? I'm going to put the last amendments to the vote. Amendment 53 of the People's Deputy Miroshnick Yuri Romanović. People's deputies, please vote for confirmation. Please vote. [[12:17:20]] For 261 Against 36, held - 8, did not vote - 96. Decision taken. The factions. Region Party - 185, Fatherland - 3, Vitalia Klicka - 24, Freedom - 0, Company - 31, non-fractional - 18. I'm betting on the vote to be amended by 54 People's Deputies of Leluk for confirmation. People's deputies, please vote. [[12:18:02]] For 256 Against – 2, held – 8, did not vote – 136. Decision taken. The factions. Region Party - 185, Fatherland - 1, Vitalia Klicka - 25, Freedom - 0, Company - 31, non-fractional - 14. I bet on the vote amendment of 55 people's deputies, Omeljanović. Please vote for confirmation. 55th, listen to hope. It's a deal. [[12:18:44]] For 253 Against - 2, holding - 9, not voting - 137. Decision taken. Factions: Region Party - 182, Fatherland - 1, Vitalia Klicka - 25, Freedom - zero, Company - 31, non-faction - 14. I would like to place an amendment to the vote of 56 People's Deputies Yuri Miroshnicka for confirmation, please vote. [[12:19:29]] For 258. No, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no. Decision taken. Do you insist on that? Are you insisting? [[B in m in s a l in]] They insist. Correction. Amendment 57 of the People's Deputies of Miroshnick Yuri Romanović. I'll bet the vote on confirmation. [[12:20:16]] For 260 Against - 2, held - 38, not voted - 102. Decision taken. The factions. Amendment 58 of the People’s Deputies of Leluk, voting on the amendment. Please vote. [[12:20:49]] For 259. No, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, Decision taken. The factions. Amendment 59 of the Omelyanović People's Deputy. I'm betting on the vote to confirm this amendment. [[12:21:24]] For 259. Against 0. We're holding on to 36. They didn't vote, 106. Decision taken. The factions. Amendment 60, People's Deputies of Peacekeepers. I'm betting on the vote to confirm this amendment. Please vote. [[12:22:00]] For 260 Against 0. We're holding on to 46. They didn't vote - 95. Decision taken. The factions. Amendment 61, People's Deputy Leluka. I'm betting on the vote to confirm this amendment. [[12:22:30]] For 298 Against 0. We're holding on to ten. They didn't vote - 93. Decision taken. The factions. Amendment 62, People's Deputy Omelanovic. I'm betting on the vote on amendment 62, People's Deputy Omelanovic, for confirmation. Please vote. [[12:23:20]] For 304 Against 0. We're holding on to nine. They didn't vote 88. Decision taken. The factions. Region Party - 186, Fatherland - 11, Vitalia Klicka - 26, Freedom - 31, Company - 31, non-fractional - 19. Amendment of 63rd People's Deputy Yuri Miroshnick. I'm willing to vote on this amendment. For confirmation. [[12:24:05]] For 258. Against 0, holding back, 43, not voting, 99. Decision taken. The factions. I would like to vote on amendment 64 of the People's Deputy Leluc. For confirmation. Please vote. [[12:24:38]] For 260 Against – 0, held – 39, not voted – 101. Decision taken. The factions. Deputies! The review of the amendments has been completed, so let us move on to the decision-making process. People's deputies, please prepare. I am voting on the draft Act (No. 1208-1) amending the Ukrainian Code of Land and other acts in the field of land relations (to simplify the procedure for the removal of land) for adoption in second reading and in general. People's deputies, please vote. [[12:25:57]] For 316 Against 34, held – 4, not voted – 41. Decision taken. The factions. Region Party - 188, Fatherland - 83, Vitalia Klicka - 22, Freedom - 0, Company - 31, non-fractional - 22. The law is passed. At 13 o'clock, we'll continue our work. I'm asking the faction leaders to come into the office of the Chief of Staff of the Supreme Council.
ParlaMint-UA_2013-07-02-m0.u216	Ladies and gentlemen, we continue our work. I'd like a moment of your attention. Ladies and gentlemen, on June 23, 2013, in northern Pakistan, as a result of the terrorist attack, our mountaineers were tragically killed and planned to climb the 70th anniversary of the liberation of the city of Harkov from the fascist invaders. We express our deepest words of compassion to all our family members and loved ones. Accept our sincere words of support in this difficult time for you and us. Therefore, honourable deputies, I ask you to honor the memory of the fallen compatriots for a moment of silence. [[A Minute of Silence]] Please sit down. Honourable MPs are being reviewed by the draft Act No. 2130 amending certain Ukrainian legislative acts to improve the procedure for the removal of land (second reading). I ask for the rostrum of the Committee on Agrarian Politics and Land Relations, Gregory Mikolaiovich Kaletnik.
ParlaMint-UA_2013-07-02-m0.u217	Thank you, Reverend Vladimir Vasilovich. Dear colleagues, the bill that is proposed to your mind is harmonized with the Law that we have just adopted as a law with you as a whole. So I would very much like to draw your attention to this and ask that we also consider this law carefully and accept it. Since the adoption of this bill, 33 amendments have been made to the committee in the first reading and proposals have been made by the legislators, mainly our national deputies of the Supreme Council of all factions. 16 amendments were counted, 17 were rejected. The committee thanks the people's deputies for actively working on the bill. The amendments that have been rejected as a whole, I would like to point out that they relate to the fact that if we considered these rejected amendments, it would mean that we would cancel the positions that we voted with you in the first reading by adopting this bill as a basis. For example, this is a proposal for a deviation of the standard that allows the project to be ordered and developed by a land-use scheme, without obtaining an appropriate permit, where the relevant authority has not granted such permission or an incentive to refuse it. Also not supported are the proposals for leaving in the current positions of articles 118 and 123 of the Land Code the deadline for digging from the cadastre map, given that the definition allows officials to demand only this mining, and that is, the only one of all the documents that is paid. The term "graphical materials" also allows for both cadastral mapping and graphic materials in arbitrary form. Thus, both this norm and the amendments that have been made regarding the accounting of graphic materials are rejected. When working on the second reading, taking into account suggestions and amendments, the committee unanimously supported the bill as a matter of law. And the proposed changes will stimulate the executive and local self - government authorities to consider the concerns of Ukrainian citizens in a timely and thorough manner. The Committee of the Supreme Council on Agrarian Policy and Land Relations at its meeting on June 19 adopted this law as a whole and asks colleagues, the Supreme Council, to support the decision to take a second reading and generally as a law. Thank you for your attention.
ParlaMint-UA_2013-07-02-m0.u218	Thank you. Ladies and gentlemen, the amendment No. 1 of National MP Sharov is under consideration. Are you insisting? No, it's not. Amendment No. 2 of the Mishchenka People's Deputy. Turn on the microphone of the people's MP Mishchenka.
ParlaMint-UA_2013-07-02-m0.u219	Sergei Mishchenko, Kyivščina. The 2nd amendment suggests canceling the new concept proposed by the bill as "graphical materials." Why? Graphic materials for today are neither defined by legislation nor by this draft law. This allows for a double interpretation by officials. And to demand different documents for a person to submit, that is to say, it's a corrupt ingredient. In addition, I can say that I will be supported by the Legal Authority, which says that the definition of the term "graphical materials" is such a legal uncertainty of their stated term, contrary to article 8 of the Constitution of the rule of law, will lead to their arbitrary interpretation by both the authorities of the State and interested natural and legal persons. Then it will be impossible to violate the requirements of article 19 of the Ukrainian Constitution. Thank you.
ParlaMint-UA_2013-07-02-m0.u220	Please, Gregory Mikolayovich.
ParlaMint-UA_2013-07-02-m0.u221	Thank you. I'd like to point out to my colleague that your amendment actually sounds like you're asking for an edition of "graphical materials," which we've made, to replace by "cadastral map mining or other graphic materials" which is where you have "other graphic materials." If you're just saying "cadastre map mining." And that means that the official will have the right to demand cadastre materials, and they're paid. We took the cadastral materials, and we left the graphic materials behind, which are enough to take into account the withdrawal of this area. So I would ask that you accept your amendment, that you accept its rejection. Thank you.
ParlaMint-UA_2013-07-02-m0.u222	Ladies and gentlemen, please sit down. There's a vote coming. A vote is taken on amendment No. 2 of the Mishchenka People's Deputy. People's deputies, please vote. [[13:09:57]] For-68 Against 2, held – 48, did not vote – 264. The decision is not taken. The factions. Region Party 8, Parentage Party 26, Vitalia Klicka Hit 1, Freedom 26, Company 0, non-fractional 7. Amendment number 4 is under consideration. Amendment No. 3 is counted. Martinks.
ParlaMint-UA_2013-07-02-m0.u223	Ruslan Marcinkov, All-Ukrainian Freedom Union. Please place amendment number 3 for confirmation. So please put it to the vote.
ParlaMint-UA_2013-07-02-m0.u224	Do you have any comments?
ParlaMint-UA_2013-07-02-m0.u225	We have an observation. So please put it to the vote.
ParlaMint-UA_2013-07-02-m0.u226	I'm asking the people's deputies to support it. The committee supported and took this amendment into account editorially. I'd like to support you.
ParlaMint-UA_2013-07-02-m0.u227	People's deputies, ladies and gentlemen, don't run around the hall, sit down. I'm betting on the vote of Amendment No. 3 of the People's Deputies of Chugunikov for confirmation. Please vote. [[13:11:27]] For 243 Against 0, held – 33, did not vote – 113. Decision taken. The factions. Region Party - 164, Fatherland - 22, Vitalia Klicka - 21, Freedom - 1, Company - 26, non-fractional - 9. Amendment 4. Fedorjak People's Deputies. Are you insisting? No, it's not. Amendment 5. The People's Deputy. Are you insisting? Please turn on the microphone.
ParlaMint-UA_2013-07-02-m0.u228	Oleg Knaczykki, the All-Ukrainian Freedom Union. Dear colleagues, I'd like to pay your attention because this is a very serious question, and Sergey Mishchenko has already said on this point. Yet what is proposed is absolutely contrary to the principle of legal certainty and the legal authorities have really paid attention to it. I also want to point out that this proposed regulation is contrary to the principle of the stability of legislation, because less than a year ago, Law 5396 has changed the applicable norm and this current norm exists today. Moreover, those remarks about my correction that came from the Committee on Graphic Materials are totally unworthy because there can be no graphic material in arbitrary form, because it's only a specialized organization that can provide a excavation that has a plan in it.
ParlaMint-UA_2013-07-02-m0.u229	Grigory Mikolaiovich, please.
ParlaMint-UA_2013-07-02-m0.u230	I thank the National Deputies for their attention. I want to be clear, they're just simplifying the graphic materials, because you don't always need to dig them up, which are paid. And graphic materials when they're disposing of land is a common form that they know. They've drawn, given these graphic materials, and that's already the basis for making the right decision. Because all the work of the institutions is still going on. So in the previous conclusion, we did not need to complicate these procedures; we tried to simplify them as much as possible. And that's what your committee members know, who also supported these amendments. I thank you very much and would like to ask the hall to reject this amendment or not to vote now.
ParlaMint-UA_2013-07-02-m0.u231	The vote shall be voted on by amendment No. 5 of the People's Deputy of Knaczyk. Please vote. [[13:14:22]] For-75 Against 3, held – 49, not voted – 266. The factions. Amendment No. 6 of the People's Deputy, Sharov. Don't insist. Amendment 7 People's MP Melnik. Counted. People's deputy of the Marches, please.
ParlaMint-UA_2013-07-02-m0.u232	Ruslan Marcinkov, All-Ukrainian Freedom Union. It says here, "correction counted in part." Would you like to know which part? But what I would like to say is, if you read the whole amendment, then again, what we've been criticizing is the faction of the All-Ukrainian Union of Freedom that there's a so-called unmotivated refusal, as well as the silence of the decision to build a project with the land structure. The main scientific and expert office said that an amendment could lead to 2 and 3 land-based projects. If this amendment goes away. Therefore, the faction of the All-Ukrainian Union of Freedom requires that this amendment be put to the vote for confirmation and I ask my colleagues not to support it because it has a significant impact on local self-government. Thank you. Glory to Ukraine!
ParlaMint-UA_2013-07-02-m0.u233	Please, Gregory Mikolaiovich.
ParlaMint-UA_2013-07-02-m0.u234	When I presented the second reading, I said, however, that this is a different bill, that we give a person here the opportunity, a citizen, if the official did not give a well-motivated answer or decide on the matter in principle, he has the right to draw up this documentation in silence. That's why the amendment you're talking about, and I'd like to support it, is partially accounted for, because in this amendment, we only took one paragraph that supports the ideology of this bill. So I would like the Hall to support this amendment. Thank you.
ParlaMint-UA_2013-07-02-m0.u235	I'm betting on a vote in favour of the number 7 National MP Melnik. For confirmation. Please vote. [[13:16:54]] For 213 Against 39, held – 27, not voted – 111. The decision is not taken. I say the same thing ten times. Don't run around the hall, sit down, vote. And now we're out of time, the card hasn't worked, and so on. Amendment number 8 is under consideration. Sit down and work. National MP Mishchenka. Are you insisting? Please, National Deputy Mishchenko.
ParlaMint-UA_2013-07-02-m0.u236	Dear colleagues, I would like to point out that in the first reading, who voted in favour of this bill, we had in mind a new procedure -- this is a silent agreement to produce, to be able to produce, after the executive authorities have not given, within a month, a decision on such a right, to produce documentation. But look at the 7th to 12th revision, the 12th revision that we came to in the final result in the second reading: that after the month went by and you didn't get permission, you still have to go to trial, and that decision of the court -- I quote -- "is a permit for the development of a suitable land structure project." I mean, what is it? The court already gives permission? And that's what the Legal Department says is a violation of the 3rd, 5th, 6th, 8th, 19th, 24th articles of the Constitution. What, then, did we come to, to what silent agreement?
ParlaMint-UA_2013-07-02-m0.u237	Please.
ParlaMint-UA_2013-07-02-m0.u238	Thank you. Well, you realize that these are the amendments and they say that if you don't answer them at the right time, that's the right thing to do. And if that's right. The court is only in that case if. And you're here if you read the whole amendment, these are the other amendments, let's look at this, and I'll explain. In the case of a denial or a dispute, the court’s decision. Thank you.
ParlaMint-UA_2013-07-02-m0.u239	I'm betting on the vote of Amendment 8, People's Deputy Mishchenka. Please vote. [[13:19:30.]] Z-85 Against the 3rd. We're holding on to 52. There was no vote – 249. The decision is not taken. The factions. Amendment number nine, National Deputy Ilyuk. Counted. Andrew Mishchenko asks for confirmation of this amendment. Yeah, right? Your opinion, Gregory Mikolaiovich.
ParlaMint-UA_2013-07-02-m0.u240	Is that a 9-a?
ParlaMint-UA_2013-07-02-m0.u241	9th.
ParlaMint-UA_2013-07-02-m0.u242	9th, Leluka. It's partially accounted for. And I would like to support the Hall and vote in favour of this amendment.
ParlaMint-UA_2013-07-02-m0.u243	I'm betting on the vote of Amendment 9 of the People's Deputy Leluk for confirmation. People's deputies, please vote. [[13:20:33]] For 239. Against 3, held – 32, not voted – 88. Decision taken. The factions. Region Party - 175, Fatherland - 24, Vitalia Klicka - 1, Freedom - 0, Company - 28, non-fractional - 11. Amendment No. 10 of the People's Deputy.
ParlaMint-UA_2013-07-02-m0.u244	Oleg Knaczykki, the All-Ukrainian Freedom Union. First of all, the proposed changes to the law are in conflict with, first of all, the legislation and the Constitution of Ukraine. And a whole series of laws, including the Earth Code. Both the Land Authority Act and local self - government. What is most important is article 142, 143, of the Constitution of Ukraine, which provides for the exclusive competence of local councils, including land issues. With good intentions, we limit the rights of local councils that conflict with both international standards and the Constitution of Ukraine. Instead, we reintroduce the same corruption and enable us to address such issues to the authorities, the local authorities of the executive branch. So for this order, it's supposed to be a permissive, simplified order, and it's going to go the other way around.
ParlaMint-UA_2013-07-02-m0.u245	I'll bet you a vote. Oh, please.
ParlaMint-UA_2013-07-02-m0.u246	Thank you. However, the National MP of the German Republic would like to delete, by his amendment, article 118, paragraph 3, of the Code of Land, which will return to the previous procedures that are being decided by this law. So I would ask you not to support this amendment.
ParlaMint-UA_2013-07-02-m0.u247	I'll bet on the vote of Amendment 10 of the People's Deputies of Knaveki. Please vote. [[13:22:41]] For-93 Against 3, held – 44, not voted – 252. The decision is not taken. The factions. Amendment No. 11 of the People's Deputy of Chugunikov. Are you insisting? Please turn on Chugunikov's microphone. I'm sorry. I'm sorry. I'm sorry. Turn it on. Insert and turn the card on. Did you turn on the microphone?
ParlaMint-UA_2013-07-02-m0.u248	I insist.
ParlaMint-UA_2013-07-02-m0.u249	You're just insisting?
ParlaMint-UA_2013-07-02-m0.u250	I'm just insisting.
ParlaMint-UA_2013-07-02-m0.u251	Come on. Gregory Mikolayovich, just insisting.
ParlaMint-UA_2013-07-02-m0.u252	I thank you for this motivated pressurization. But this amendment cannot be taken into account because it contradicts ideology throughout the bill. Thank you. Please don't support me.
ParlaMint-UA_2013-07-02-m0.u253	I would like to vote on amendment 11 of the People's Deputy Chugunikov. Please vote. [[13:24:09]] For-52 Against – 2, held – 73, did not vote – 273. The decision is not taken. The factions. The Party of Regions is 4, Fatherland is 14, Vitalia Klicka is 28 (the faction supported you), Freedom is 0, the Company is 0, the non-fractional is 6. Amendment 12 counted. Please, National Deputy Lazko.
ParlaMint-UA_2013-07-02-m0.u254	Oleg Lazko. Dear colleagues, the first reading stated that if the local government does not grant permission, there is a silent agreement and citizens are entitled to order a land collection project. Amendment 12 now foresees that there should be a court decision to establish the inaction of that authority. But first of all, today is the right of citizens to go to court, and second of all, how many years it takes to go to court to get a decision that has gained legal power. So actually, this amendment cancels out the whole law that we adopted in the first reading. We predicted that we'd simplify the procedure, and today it turns out that we're making it difficult, we're sending everyone to court, we're going to go to court, we're going to court, we're going to confess to inaction, and we're going to have to go to the administrative court for five years to get a decision, and then you're just going to take the land. It's a nuisance.
ParlaMint-UA_2013-07-02-m0.u255	Grigory Mikolaiovich. Please.
ParlaMint-UA_2013-07-02-m0.u256	Well, a national MP is partly right, because we actually predicted that such inaction and silence should be without a citizen being brought to justice. And in this case, we just have to take into account that a court should, if there's not a month's notice, automatically acknowledge the inaction of such an organ, not the submission of a citizen.
ParlaMint-UA_2013-07-02-m0.u257	National deputy of the Magnificent. Please.
ParlaMint-UA_2013-07-02-m0.u258	Oleg Knaczykki, the All-Ukrainian Freedom Union. But first of all, the citizen's right to charge inaction with non-solving the land issue is provided for in current legislation. But the court can't take a decision for a board to grant a release permit, a draft withdrawal, because it's going to be dragging the local self-government authorities to court. And it was a subject of consideration as the Constitutional Court of Ukraine. And on this point, there is a decision that the court cannot decide whether to grant permission to produce the removal project and to approve the removal project. The same is the ruling of the plenary of the Supreme Court and it has been the subject of judicial practice, and on this point there is already a decision if, in the case of a vote in favour of this amendment, it would be totally contrary to both the Constitution and the laws and the judicial decisions. Thank you.
ParlaMint-UA_2013-07-02-m0.u259	I'd like that.
ParlaMint-UA_2013-07-02-m0.u260	Please.
ParlaMint-UA_2013-07-02-m0.u261	I'd still like the National MP who just explained to you to read again. The question is that the court’s decision does not permit it, and the court’s decision merely establishes the inaction of the body concerned. And the recognition of inaction is a license, a confession of inaction.
ParlaMint-UA_2013-07-02-m0.u262	I'll bet you a vote. You've already said that. All of it. Come on, let's vote. I'm betting on the vote of Amendment 12 of People's MP Omelanovic for confirmation, please vote. [[13:28:26]] For 219 Against 62, held – 19, did not vote – 97. The decision is not taken. The factions. Region Party - 181, Fatherland - 4, Vitalia Klicka - 0, Freedom - 0, Company - 30, non-fractional - 4. Amendment 13 of the Melnik People’s Deputy is under consideration. Amendment 14 of the Mishchenka People's Deputy. Are you insisting? Please. Turn it on.
ParlaMint-UA_2013-07-02-m0.u263	Dear colleagues, I agree with my colleagues from Liberty with Knaveki that if we accept it, we have not accepted 12 amendments, and it is correct that we have not accepted it. Because it's a nonsensence when you still have to let the courts ask. But the question is, look, we're going back to the first reading, to what was in the first reading. And it is said here that silent consent is permitted only to those who claim to be free of charge. I mean, what's being proposed? It is proposed that free of charge be given to those citizens who receive it free of charge. And all others, silent consent, are not applied. So the corruption component is, is that a person who doesn't have the right to form this area free of charge gives permission. The official doesn't give him this permission within a month, he gets the administrative fine. But this is an opportunity to get.
ParlaMint-UA_2013-07-02-m0.u264	Please, Gregory Mikhailovich.
ParlaMint-UA_2013-07-02-m0.u265	The 14th Amendment, the People's Deputy Mishchenka, we've made 14 amendments to his editorial on "the decision of the designated authorities is taken on the basis of projects by the Land Administration on land collection in the case of land allocation with a change of destination and the formation of a new land area," taking into account what was previously amended so that those land areas that already have documentation would not be required to produce them again. Thank you. Therefore, I would like to support the consideration of the partial amendment of the Mishchenka People's Deputies.
ParlaMint-UA_2013-07-02-m0.u266	I'll bet you a vote. I would like to vote on amendment 14 of the Mishchenka People's Deputies. Please vote. [[13:31:20]] For 271 Against-0, held-28, didn't vote-99. Decision taken. The factions. Region Party - 182, Parenthood-40, Vitalia Klicka - 0, Freedom - 30, Company - 0, non-fractional - 19. Amendment 15 is counted. 16th, Omelanovic, accounted for. Please, the People's Deputies of the Magnificent.
ParlaMint-UA_2013-07-02-m0.u267	Dear colleagues, well, it's a sequel to the story that we've just rejected, in fact, regarding the granting of permission on the basis of a court decision. I'd like to point out to the reporter what this is about, that "the court's decision is the basis for the draft withdrawal." That is to say, it is clear that the authority of local self - government, which contradicts the acts I have already listed, is being transferred to court. I therefore believe that this amendment cannot be taken into account and it is contrary to both the Constitution and the laws and the jurisprudence and the decision of the Constitutional Court. Thank you.
ParlaMint-UA_2013-07-02-m0.u268	What is the correction?
ParlaMint-UA_2013-07-02-m0.u269	16th.
ParlaMint-UA_2013-07-02-m0.u270	16th. Please, at the 16th Amendment of the People's Deputy Lazko.
ParlaMint-UA_2013-07-02-m0.u271	Oleg Lazko. Dear Volodymira Vasilovich, dear colleagues, we have just rejected the 12 amendments that required a citizen to follow the court’s decision to obtain permission to develop a suitable land structure. 16 The amendment provides for a similar rule that a court decision is needed to obtain a draft land structure. I want to pay attention to the authors of this amendment: and today the legislation establishes the right of citizens to go to court. So we're just pursuing the goal of this law to make it easier for people to document land. The amendments proposed make it difficult, or at all, to invalidate, the standards of this law that we adopted in the first reading and send everyone to court. I emphasize that this is the subject of the administrative court's jurisdiction, and you know how these cases have been dealt with for years. So I'm asking my fellow MPs to put it to a vote and not support the 16th amendment. Thank you.
ParlaMint-UA_2013-07-02-m0.u272	Please, Gregory Mikolaiovich.
ParlaMint-UA_2013-07-02-m0.u273	I would like to invite national deputy Oleg Láška to read the paper again. The point is that this amendment, given its scope, is expanding. And it's clear here that not only can you get the decisions given by the Autonomous Republic, the Council of Ministers, the executive organs, or the local government, but also, in other cases, the court's decision, not just the court's decision. So where there is a dispute and a court decision is, it should be a permit if the court finds that it is a citizen’s right, or a citizen’s right. And you're interpreting now that only by court, you're wrong.
ParlaMint-UA_2013-07-02-m0.u274	I'll bet you a vote. I'm asking for your attention.
ParlaMint-UA_2013-07-02-m0.u275	Please be supportive.
ParlaMint-UA_2013-07-02-m0.u276	Amendment 16 of the People's Deputy, Omelyanović. I'm betting on the vote to confirm this amendment. Please vote. [[13:35:11]] For 231 Against 39, held 34, did not vote 90. Decision taken. The factions. Amendment 17 of the People’s Deputy Yuri Miroshnick. Counted. Amendment 18. The national deputy of Sharov. Are you insisting? Please turn on the microphone of National Deputy Sharov. Please.
ParlaMint-UA_2013-07-02-m0.u277	Dear Sir, my fellow Members, I have consulted with the State Resources on my amendments, as well as with the committee of profile, and thank you for your support. All the other amendments that are not supported, I'll take them off. Thank you.
ParlaMint-UA_2013-07-02-m0.u278	Amendment 19. National MP Mishchenko microphone, please.
ParlaMint-UA_2013-07-02-m0.u279	Dear colleagues, back to the concept of "graphical materials." I want to speak to the committee head again. Okay, Mishchenko is wrong, Nechnovsky is the same, he's filed the same, he's wrong, he's not right, he's still wrong. The legal authorities in their observations say that this is a violation of the Constitution of two articles 8 and 19. And the President's veto, if it's a violation of the Constitution? And you're saying that it's not a corrupt component and there's not going to be a double interpretation of these graphic materials. And the correct observation of the legal office says that you have to go back to those proposals that were before, that's the idea of digging from the cadastre map of the plan and other materials. That's not our requirement, that's a reference to law enforcement. She didn't sign your table for second reading. So you have to go back, you can't vote him in that case.
ParlaMint-UA_2013-07-02-m0.u280	Dear colleague, thank you very much. But if the Legal Authority paid for the excavations that they're giving out of cadastral, and if they knew how much they're worth and how bad they are, then they'd understand how much we're simplifying today that we're allowing graphic material to be given in arbitrary form and it's the basis for consideration. This isn't taking away the area itself at the coordinates to consider making a decision. And that's why the services you insist on, I think we'd be better off taking them. We considered this in detail on the committee. I thank you and ask you not to support this amendment.
ParlaMint-UA_2013-07-02-m0.u281	I would like to vote on the amendment of the 19th National MP of Mishchenka. Please vote. [[13:38:21]] Z-87 Against 4, held – 59, not a vote - 243. The decision is not taken. The factions. Amendment 20 of the People's Deputy of Chugunikov. Counted. Then the 21st Amendment of the People’s Deputy of Magnitzki. Please turn on the microphone.
ParlaMint-UA_2013-07-02-m0.u282	Oleg Knaczykki, the All-Ukrainian Freedom Union. First of all, I'd like to point out to the reporter that digging is no longer worth that kind of money. It's worth 50 bucks, as I recall. This is a one-time thing. Secondly, what graphic material is there, and who's going to draw it? If this is not done by a licensed organization, then who on those graphic materials will do all the communication that goes around the area, the area characteristics, and what will be the body that will consider giving the area will see what is there? So you can put areas on both networks and in places where you can't do that. Therefore, the argument that money is paid for it and only land - owned organizations is not worth the attention, but rather it gives the official the opportunity to expand the concept of technical documentation and put extra pressure and additional demands on entities to apply for land removal and will result.
ParlaMint-UA_2013-07-02-m0.u283	Please.
ParlaMint-UA_2013-07-02-m0.u284	I thank my colleague very much. Once again, I want to tell you that ordering documentation and making it are different things. So that's what I want you to take into account. First. And the second. That those 50 bracelets you call are official costs, and all the extracts you need to take, you understand what this is about. So we don't want to address all our citizens and do everything we can to simplify the procedure for our citizens. Thank you.
ParlaMint-UA_2013-07-02-m0.u285	I'll bet you a vote on the amendment of the People's Deputy. Please vote. [[13:40:43]] Z-87 Against it, 1 / 1 We're holding on to 57. They didn't vote, 251. The decision is not taken. The factions. The Sharov National MP does not insist. 23 Amendment, People’s Deputy Melnik, partially counted. 24 amendments. National MP Mishchenko does not insist. 25th People's Deputy Leluk, partially counted. 26th People's Chamber of Commerce. Please turn on the microphone.
ParlaMint-UA_2013-07-02-m0.u286	Oleg Knaczykki, the All-Ukrainian Freedom Union. Well, look, your honors, what we're doing today, and what this law is going to bring chaos in those relationships at all. Because today, by violating the Constitution, which provides for the exclusive competence of local councils, absolutely nullifying the territorial community's right to determine a number of issues that are set out in this law, we give it the right to court, we give it the functions of a local self-government body. Well, that's already been said. And even the judiciary itself recognized that this was unconstitutional, because it was the subject of the Supreme Court's plenary. And today we do things that will be very difficult to fix tomorrow. The second question. This person, by turning to the local government, without absolutely any data on the area's characteristics, will have just the right to maintain that area, perhaps.
ParlaMint-UA_2013-07-02-m0.u287	Please.
ParlaMint-UA_2013-07-02-m0.u288	All the time around the same question. The National MP wants to go back to the existing order when no response was given to a person during the month, no decision was made, then another 10 days was given, then he could still worry. And what we're saying here is that in a month's time or a time served by legislation, it's not decided, so he has the right to take this area away. Thus, this amendment contradicts the ideology of the entire bill. Thank you.
ParlaMint-UA_2013-07-02-m0.u289	I would like to vote on the amendment of the 26th People's Deputies of Knabiek. Please vote. [[13:43:25]] For-78 Against - 3, held - 58, not voted - 257. The decision is not taken. The factions. Amendment 27 of the People’s Deputy Chugunikov. Don't you insist? No, it's not. And the 28th Amendment of the Omelyanovich. Counted. Please, Mishchenka. National MP.
ParlaMint-UA_2013-07-02-m0.u290	Dear colleagues, in the first case, when we didn't support the 12 orders, it would be illogical to maintain the same analogous law that allows the court to issue permission. So once again, there are not two articles of the Constitution broken, there are six articles of the Constitution broken, because the judiciary does not issue any permits, it is the executive authority. That's why I'm asking you to put it on the stand and not vote for it, because in other articles that we didn't vote for the court to grant such permission, it's no longer there. That is why it is not possible to pass such a law. Thank you.
ParlaMint-UA_2013-07-02-m0.u291	I beg of you, National Deputy Petrenko.
ParlaMint-UA_2013-07-02-m0.u292	Dear colleagues, I want to support my colleague Mishchenka. In fact, we should avoid any breach of legal technology on the one hand. Because if we didn't support the 12th amendment, we don't have the right to vote for the 28th amendment. This is the first one. As far as the matter is concerned. The first reading of this article is perfectly normal. If the relevant authority has no objection to the documents, the person who submitted the documents may produce the relevant documentation, and in fact he has a permit by silent consent. So I ask that we put this amendment to be confirmed and not voted in favour of it, leave the edition of the first reading. Thank you.
ParlaMint-UA_2013-07-02-m0.u293	May I have your attention, national deputies? Please sit down and vote in person. Amendment 28 of the Omelyanovich People's Deputy, voting for confirmation. Please vote. [[13:46:00]] For 226 Against 74, held – 28, not voted – 64. Decision taken. The factions. Amendment 29 of the Mishchenka People's Deputy counts. Amendment 30 Taken care of. Please turn on the microphone.
ParlaMint-UA_2013-07-02-m0.u294	First of all, dear colleagues, I'd like to pay attention to what we just voted on. Before that, we voted in favour. Having rejected the amendment in the same way, we now accepted it. So we already have a conflict in this bill. That's one thing. As far as Amendment 30 is concerned. It is proposed to establish administrative responsibility for violating the time limit for the issue of granting permission to produce a project with a land structure. I would like to point out that such permission is granted by local authorities in particular. And this is a collegiate organ. And think about who they're going to attract for breaking the deadline. This council will be drawn, which by law does not bear responsibility. So it's not going to protect citizens' rights at all. And in this case, we had to sell a better defense mechanism, not set a dead standard that wouldn't work.
ParlaMint-UA_2013-07-02-m0.u295	Offer. Gregory Mikhailovich.
ParlaMint-UA_2013-07-02-m0.u296	Dear Volodymyr Vasilovich, national deputies, colleagues. The position of this amendment, which is being amended, has become obsolete with two laws: the Act on State Land cadastre, which has been in force for 2 years and the Act on State Registration of Real Estate Rights and Their Burdens, which entered into force since 1 January 2013. This amendment is therefore contrary to two laws. And that's why she was rejected on the committee. Thank you.
ParlaMint-UA_2013-07-02-m0.u297	I'm betting on the vote to amend 30 of the people's deputies. People's deputies please identify themselves. [[13:48:22]] For-74. Against 2, held – 54, not voted – 261. The decision is not taken. The factions. Amendment 31 of the Chogunniki People's Deputy. Counted. Amendment 32 of the people's deputies, Sharov. Counted. And the amendment of 33 people's deputies to Fedorjak. Counted. What are some suggestions?
ParlaMint-UA_2013-07-02-m0.u298	Dear Vladimir Vasilovich, we have not all come to the hall yet, we have begun to consider the bill and amendment No. 7 of Melnik Stanislav Anatoliyovich has not been supported by just seven votes. I would like to go back to looking at this amendment and support this amendment. Thank you.
ParlaMint-UA_2013-07-02-m0.u299	I'm voting back on Amendment 7. People's deputies, please vote. [[13:49:35]] For 245 Against 46, held – 23, not a vote – 73. Decision taken. The factions. I'm betting on the vote to amend the 7th National MP of Melnik for confirmation. People's deputies, please vote. [[13:50:10]] For 257 Against 39, held – 28, not voted – 64. Decision taken. The factions. Please.
ParlaMint-UA_2013-07-02-m0.u300	Dear National Deputies, Honourable Volodymira Vasilovich, we must agree with the remark made by the National MP Mishchenka, who said that by accepting all the other amendments: Amendment No. 12, which we have not supported, is in force in the same law. So I'd like to go back to the steam call number 12 and vote and support it. Thank you.
ParlaMint-UA_2013-07-02-m0.u301	I'll bet you a vote, and I'll give you my word when you're accepted. I bet on the return vote to consider Amendment 12. People's deputies, please vote. I'll give it to you. [[13:51:14]] For 223 So they spoke in vain, and listened to you, and you did not support. That's why we need to consider or consider right now. Please, National Deputy Mishchenko, and we will adopt the law.
ParlaMint-UA_2013-07-02-m0.u302	Well, it's clear that after such a vote, it can't be accepted as a law. Because the Colosseum exists in this law. And it's clear that the President won't sign it, he'll veto it. The only suggestion is to return the committee to the second reading. And then let him work out, let the legal administration do it if it didn't work badly, but those violations of the Constitution that were stated, and for those reasons it's impossible to accept in general. Let them work out, make smaller readouts, and then we'll vote as a law. And who doesn't vote like me.
ParlaMint-UA_2013-07-02-m0.u303	I'll bet you a vote on the committee's proposal: draft Law 2130, on introduction.
ParlaMint-UA_2013-07-02-m0.u304	About acceptance in the second and in general as a law.
ParlaMint-UA_2013-07-02-m0.u305	amending some of the Ukrainian legislative acts to improve the procedure for the removal of land for adoption on second reading and in general. People's deputies, please vote. [[13:53:00]] For 277 Against-39, held-32, not voted-41. Decision taken. The factions. Region Party - 189, Fatherland - 42, Vitalia Klicka - 0, Freedom - 0, Company - 31, non-fractional - 15. Ladies and gentlemen, I continue my work for 15 minutes. The Minister of Interior of Ukraine, Vitaly Juryevich Zaharchenko, attends the plenary. So I invite Vitalia Yurievich Zakharchenk to the rostrum for information on the events that took place in the Mikolai district. We agreed with the faction leaders, we have 20 minutes: 10 minutes, 10 minutes, a minister and one question from each faction. Please, Vitaly Juryevich.
ParlaMint-UA_2013-07-02-m0.u306	Ladies and gentlemen of the national council, your honor! The Ministry of Internal Affairs has examined in detail the situation that has become so resonant. First of all, I will express my heartfelt sympathy for the victims and their loved ones. I assure you that in no way do we hide or justify such shameful acts. On the contrary, the Ministry of Internal Affairs is interested in conducting rapid, full and impartial investigations by the prosecutor’s authorities. One of the main causes of the resonance event is the irresponsible attitude toward individual employees in carrying out their duties. First of all, managers of different levels and the desire to create imaginary well - being. In particular, the head of the Vradiev Paradise Department and the head of the district police department. Why did the Ministry of Internal Affairs not react immediately to this event? Every now and then, there are 15 to 16 thousand reports of crimes, one third of them with criminal signs, more than 1,000 involving minor bodily injuries. On the basis of the relevant regulations, the Ministry comes and takes control of only the most difficult and resonant events, usually involving the use of firearms, explosives, and so on. By concealing objective information about the circumstances of the commission of the crime, the ministry was late responding to the situation. Only after reclassification of the crime composition, an operational set-up, was the Ministry sent to June 29 as a control crime. As a result, it caused resentment on the part of the local population. However, I will note that the chosen forms of protest are unacceptable, and it should be understood that the Ryvid department is a regular object where weapons are stored, criminals, and so forth. Of course, events in Vradiyevka, Mikolayivska, are well - known for their serious impact on the law - enforcement system in general and the militias in particular. Such disgraceful facts nullify all the positive gains of internal affairs. I'm going to take a brief look at the chronology of events. At 10 a.m. on June 27, a report was received from the district hospital about the numerous injuries and fears of the local resident of Kraskov Irina Mikolayovna. An investigative task force was sent to the scene, on the same day criminalization was opened, according to article 125 of the Ukrainian Criminal Code. After receiving medical documents, the qualifications were changed to cause deliberate serious bodily harm, part one, article 121 of the Criminal Code of Ukraine. According to Krashkova, on June 26, at midnight she returned from the discotheque home, and a three - man car approached her. Among them, she recognized Polishchuk and Drizak. According to her, those who applied force were put in a car and struck with their fists on the head and torso. When they drove to the woods near the village of Sirové, they violently entered into sexual relations with her and seized her personal belongings. Thus, on June 27, criminal proceedings were also opened on the basis of a robbery (part four of article 187 of the Ukrainian Criminal Code) and rape (part three of article 152 of the Ukrainian Criminal Code). A third person has been appointed to drive a rabbinica’s car. As soon as I became aware of the involvement of police officers in the crime and the inadequacy of the transferred qualifications, I immediately responded. To Vrádívka, he assigned internal security officers and special forces inspectors to conduct a service investigation. As indicated by Krashkova Drizak, he has been working in internal affairs since 2003 and Polishtuk has been working in internal affairs since 2008, he is a member of the Vradiev Police Division, which has been designated as a criminal commission, has been united and transferred for further investigation to the Office of the Vradiov Region, and on July 1st to the Prosecutor’s Office of the Mikolai district. Operational follow-up is provided by the Ukrainian Security Service. On June 30, Ryabinenko and Polishchku took a precautionary action in the form of a watchtower. As far as Drijak was concerned, no precaution was taken, since according to the witnesses and the video registrar installed in the Paradise Department, the last one was on a day-to-day basis. These and other circumstances are currently being checked, including by conducting expert studies at the appropriate institutions of Kiev and Odessa. By the way, we did this on purpose to avoid conducting expert studies in the Mikolai region, to transfer them to other areas so that all the material evidence obtained could be studied objectively. We have a detailed analysis of the situation that has become so resonant. We have seen that one reason is the irresponsible attitude toward the performance of our duties by individual workers, especially managers of different levels and the desire to create imaginary well - being. Taking steps that are being taken. The head of the Parisinjak branch was removed from his duties. With regard to the head of the Vrádivian Paradise, a decision has been made on discharge from internal affairs. I signed an order today. One of the heads of the Ministry has been appointed to serve temporarily as Head of the Ministry. The D.A. also decided to release the district attorney. The Ministry of Internal Affairs team is headed by the Chief of Staff of the Ministry of Internal Affairs to conduct an on-the-spot check. The Ministry has established an operational headquarters to analyse information and developments in the Mikolai region. As a result of my participation in the ministry, an operational meeting was held to assign specific tasks to the branch services, offices. A selector's meeting was also held with the participation of all the heads of the U.S.S.S.A. and defined specific tasks. The Ministry’s office and appropriate services have been entrusted with working closely with the national deputies concerned with the problems of events in the Mikolai region, including those currently working in the Vradiiv region. It's 3:00 today. 00 is scheduled for a meeting under the chairmanship of the Attorney General, which will also identify and harmonize joint actions on the detection of crime, the improvement of the criminogenic environment in the area. The circumstances of the events in the Mikolai region and other regions are planned to be considered in an expanded college of interior affairs on July 12, this year. I have been given the task of carrying out an exorbitant examination of the entire personality composition of the Vrádivian Paradise and other organizational measures to prejudice extraordinary events among the special forces and to strengthen the fight against crime, change of principles, and increase requirements for the selection of personnel for internal affairs. Honorable National MPs. At the end of the day, I would like to draw attention to recent developments in society that the idea that all of the shortcomings in the law enforcement system, in particular in internal affairs, can be solved through the full replacement of all workers. So do what's called a reboot. I should inform you that from 2005 to 2010, there has been a hundred percent change in the composition. In some services, for example, in a criminal search, a speciality was repeated four times. And now we are firmly releasing those who tend to violate the rule of law, unfortunately, only these measures do not yield the desired result in order. From the internal affairs authorities, 16,000 workers were released in a year and a year and a half, including more than 1,000 for negative reasons. I understand that the time has come for a fundamental change in the organization of internal affairs. But in my opinion, this issue needs a comprehensive solution to mature problems, including not least those in the plane of the social package.
ParlaMint-UA_2013-07-02-m0.u307	Finish up, Vitaly Yuriovich.
ParlaMint-UA_2013-07-02-m0.u308	Housing, material and technical security and financing. I am counting on your support and sound proposals for further modernization of internal affairs through the adoption of appropriate legislation at the legislative level. We want the best in the Ministry of Internal Affairs system to work. We are making an effort to promote the prestige of the law enforcement profession. Thank you for your attention.
ParlaMint-UA_2013-07-02-m0.u309	Thank you. Ladies and gentlemen, I request that the factions sign up. One minute to ask and answer. I'm asking you, the People's Deputy of Kuren, the Strike faction.
ParlaMint-UA_2013-07-02-m0.u310	I ask you to pass the word to Vitalia Clitch.
ParlaMint-UA_2013-07-02-m0.u311	Please, Vitaly Cliché, a question.
ParlaMint-UA_2013-07-02-m0.u312	Mr. Secretary, the figures of the resonant events that are taking place recently are the employees of the Ministry of Internal Affairs. It's a drunken traffic event, it's a "breathing" of a shadow business, it's a racket, and today we have an additional case -- rape. We've talked about this a lot, and this once again confirms the degradation of law enforcement agencies, because the IMF is funded for 16 billion dollars today, and the number of IMF is already much more than the number of the Ukrainian Armed Forces. Ukraine today is the last country to trust in the militia, the judicial system. Question: "Who are the militias protecting?" If you don't know who's running the militia.
ParlaMint-UA_2013-07-02-m0.u313	We made a deal with faction leaders, one minute at a time. Please finish the dates.
ParlaMint-UA_2013-07-02-m0.u314	If you don't know these cases, questions. There are a lot more cases like this than I've just listed, and a lot of people can count it. As an officer, you think you have one option: resign if you do not know. The following actions. Please.
ParlaMint-UA_2013-07-02-m0.u315	Please, Vitaly Yuriovich.
ParlaMint-UA_2013-07-02-m0.u316	Thank you for asking. Dear People's Deputy! Dear National Deputies! I'm not going to answer that question briefly, so I need some time to get a clear understanding of what's going on in the Ministry of Internal Affairs system. You've sunk a lot of questions and that's definitely how I'm going to answer them. Well, I'll try to answer it more or less briefly. The marginally permissible number of employees of the Ministry of Internal Affairs was approved as early as 2002 by the Ukrainian Law on the General Structure and Number of the Ministry of Internal Affairs. It is made up of 357 and 700 persons according to the law. 357 thousand 700 people. However, this indicator differs greatly from the actual number of law enforcement officials. During the last 11 years, there has been a significant budget cut.
ParlaMint-UA_2013-07-02-m0.u317	Give me a minute.
ParlaMint-UA_2013-07-02-m0.u318	So far, the total number of IMFs is 261,000. However, these are both internal forces and higher education students, and all auxiliary services, civilian workers, who are usually not included in the internal affairs work. The number of military and police officers is 171,000, representing some 376 police personnel per 100,000 people in Ukraine. This is roughly the same in France, Poland, Israel, Germany. Now, here's what we do with our work. I'd like to tell you, this is a statistic that I took with me because I knew that such a question might come to my address. It speaks of the stability of the criminogenic situation and the control of law enforcement. These are outstanding testimony.
ParlaMint-UA_2013-07-02-m0.u319	Welcome to Yuriovich, thank you. I'm asking you not to shout, we agreed: one minute -- on a question, two minutes -- to answer a specific question. The faction of the Company of Ukraine, Balandin. Please.
ParlaMint-UA_2013-07-02-m0.u320	Vitali Juryevich, events in Vradievka are not a single case that took place last week. [[B in m in s a l in]] The Dnepropetrovsky region of the Petrikovsky region of the village of Kurilivka, on 27 June, was an attempt to raid the village's inhabitants'crops. The police were not responding to the call. After my assistant's request, only three hours later, the task force arrived at the scene of the crime. And then they didn't take any part, and they watched people get beaten up. Please review the legality of the actions of the Chief of the District Division of the Petrikovsky Region and the task force that went to the scene of the crime. Thank you.
ParlaMint-UA_2013-07-02-m0.u321	Please, Vitaly Yuriovich.
ParlaMint-UA_2013-07-02-m0.u322	Thank you for asking. I learned so much from those excerpts that I was able to hear that I needed to investigate the fact that you said more. We'll do it and give you an answer in writing, and we'll take it under control.
ParlaMint-UA_2013-07-02-m0.u323	Party of regions, National Deputy Nechayev.
ParlaMint-UA_2013-07-02-m0.u324	Good afternoon! I ask you to give the floor to the National Deputy of Ukraine, Lieutenant General of the Police Jiggy Mikoli Vasilovich.
ParlaMint-UA_2013-07-02-m0.u325	Please, Mikola Vasilovich Giga.
ParlaMint-UA_2013-07-02-m0.u326	Good afternoon, thank you. Mikola Giga, 15th constituency, Winnitzkin. Dear Vitaly Yuriovich, do you not think that this number, more than 200,000 militia personnel, is impossible to control the minister from a virtual position of Kiev. Do you not think that the time has come for part of the authority, that is, the district inspectors, the DAI staff, the Minors Inspectorate to be transferred to the local government? It's about creating a municipal police force. Militia is a large part of power, it's a large part of power and the mayor of the city or.
ParlaMint-UA_2013-07-02-m0.u327	Let me finish. Finish up.
ParlaMint-UA_2013-07-02-m0.u328	Yeah. As you think, I'd like to hear your answer.
ParlaMint-UA_2013-07-02-m0.u329	Please, Vitaly Yuriovich.
ParlaMint-UA_2013-07-02-m0.u330	I can give you an answer, can't I? Thank you. Mikola Vasilovich, I thank you for the question, the question is right, you ask this question as an expert in this case, after working for about 30 years in internal affairs, you, as a member of the College, know that the Ministry of Internal Affairs is working on the concept of reforming the Ministry of Internal Affairs, which is taking place in accordance with the President's decrees and reforming not only the Ministry of Internal Affairs, but in general the system of law enforcement. And this concept provides for the possibility of creating municipal units of internal affairs. This concept is. I was, by the way, saying in my speech that I would like to hear and see the support of the people's deputies for the further modernization of the Ministry of Internal Affairs system. All the proposals that will come from you, as experts in this field, will be taken into account in the further work on reforming the Ministry of Internal Affairs and territorial bodies, internal affairs bodies. Thank you for asking.
ParlaMint-UA_2013-07-02-m0.u331	Thank you. Freedom Union, National Deputy Sich.
ParlaMint-UA_2013-07-02-m0.u332	Sich, "Freedom", Ivano-Frankivsky. Mr. Minister, the characteristic of our society is the psychology of ethicism, that is, the propensity to the power of the state. Let these people not attack the police department, but be afraid to approach it. And if the Vradiovka department is broken down, that means the border is crossed. To this day, the police are either committing self - abuse, or they are cruelly warring against those who are fighting against the wayward. The first case we already know about Vrádievka. I'll name a few other cases. It's across the city of Kiev. Activists Peter Kuzik, Jaroslav Nesenko, Oksana Shelest, Sergey Boyko, they turn against raiding, self - capture, against arbitrary forgetfulness. So the police are suing them with criminal cases, as if they were guilty of beating up their teenage athletes. Or, let's say Vladimir Karas is the same activist, his skull has been broken, and the police say it's minor bodily damage. People were beaten up in Ternopolis.
ParlaMint-UA_2013-07-02-m0.u333	Finish up.
ParlaMint-UA_2013-07-02-m0.u334	In Ternopolis, national MPs were beaten on May 8, and the police were idle. In other words, Ukraine is just immersed in blood. You are well aware of the importance of an effective system of internal affairs today. Are they ready for radical change and ready for further radical change? Thank you.
ParlaMint-UA_2013-07-02-m0.u335	Thank you for asking.
ParlaMint-UA_2013-07-02-m0.u336	Please.
ParlaMint-UA_2013-07-02-m0.u337	Thank you for asking. Part of the questions you asked. You know there's a trial going on right now. The portion of the cases you are referring to will be brought before the court regarding the events you are referring to. On part of the questions, I was asked by your factions to meet and discuss these issues in the working order. I'll be happy to do that, and we'll talk about all the questions you're worried about. And you, in my opinion, will find answers to them. Now what I'd like to say about that line that's all in the blood in the state. Deliberate killings are reduced by 20 percent this year, from 1045 to 837. Severe bodily damage, 19 percent, from 1405 to 1132. Robbery attacks at 23 percent, from 1517 to 1163. So if I were you, I'd choose a little bit more about police work. In the police, by the way, there are a lot of professionals who have the appropriate skills to work in this system. And a lot of those who came here for their job.
ParlaMint-UA_2013-07-02-m0.u338	The Fatherland faction, Arsenius Yatzenuk, please.
ParlaMint-UA_2013-07-02-m0.u339	Mr. Secretary and Mr. Head, still, to Mikolayev about the rape and beating of a 29-year-old child by the police. I have operational information on the signature of the Chief of Staff of the Ministry of Internal Affairs of Ukraine, Mr. Barroso. This information was sent to the President of Ukraine, the Head of the Supreme Council of Ukraine and the Prime Minister of Ukraine on 29 June. In this information, your ministry and your Chief of Staff will state the following. "In the village of Vradiyuka, Mikolayev region, three persons were detained as a result of the investigation. It is determined that on the night of June 27 and on the street of the village, bodily harm was caused to the citizen of Krášková and her watch and cell phone were taken.".. I have a question for you: Where is the information on rape? Why General. Why the Chief of Staff.?
ParlaMint-UA_2013-07-02-m0.u340	I'm afraid so.
ParlaMint-UA_2013-07-02-m0.u341	Finish up.
ParlaMint-UA_2013-07-02-m0.u342	Why does the Chief of Staff misinformation the President, the Chief of the Supreme Council and the Prime Minister, and why is your ministry lying? That's the first one. The other one. Lieutenant General Moskal of the Police in 2012, when he was in Mikolayev, he made an official request to you in the village of Vradyevka, in the area of Mikolayev. A 15 - year - old child was killed in this village in 2011. What was your reaction as Ukraine’s minister of internal affairs, and why is this not considered? And why didn't you do everything you could to make sure that the rape that took place on June 27 didn't happen? And finally. Mr. Secretary, I don't believe in your words that you want to reform anything, as does your party. Make a hero act - write a resignation application, it'll be the only right thing to do.
ParlaMint-UA_2013-07-02-m0.u343	Please, Vitaly Juryevich, answer me.
ParlaMint-UA_2013-07-02-m0.u344	In order to give you an answer, Your Honor, I must return to the beginning of my report. If you have not listened carefully, I can tell you again. [[B in m in s a l in]] Wasn't there a room? I'm sorry. Now, as for the rape on January 1, 2011, the child was 14 years old. And this question is really after the request of the National MP is placed under control and is now under control, it's reregistered in the GDR. [[B in m in s a l in]] Dear national deputies, if you want to listen, listen, if you want to shout, shout. See: In 5 months of internal affairs, 217 rapes have been reported. 75 criminal offences in this category are 163 criminals already in place and are being held criminally accountable. Other crimes, most of which are likely to be exposed, are being investigated. Mr. Moskal also knows that when he worked as the prime minister of the interior, the crimes were largely undisclosed. I'm telling you, this crime is under personal control, it's registered in a single state account, and we're doing all the necessary work. There's a lot of expertise now, and I can give you a clear answer, and now I'll get some help on how much is being done and what steps are being taken on this particular case.
ParlaMint-UA_2013-07-02-m0.u345	Thank you. Thank you, Vitaly Yuriovich. The question has been considered. Let us wish Vitaly Yuriovich an objective investigation of the facts that took place in Nicholas.
ParlaMint-UA_2013-07-02-m0.u346	The morning session of the Supreme Council of Ukraine is closed. At 4:00 a.m., I invite you to continue your work.
