ParlaMint-UA_2013-05-17-m0.u1	Good morning! Dear national deputies, invited and guests of the Supreme Council of Ukraine! People's deputies, please prepare for registration. Please turn on the "Race" system. [[10:01:38]] There were 352 national deputies registered in the hall. Today is the birthday of Ukraine’s national deputy, One Alexander Josephovich. Let’s congratulate the national deputy on his birthday and wish him success. [[Applause]] Announcement. Pursuant to article 60, prime. The regulations of the Supreme Council of Ukraine are reported on the creation of the Seventh Interfractional Inter-Parliamentary Union "Promoting Cooperation between Ukraine and the State of Israel" in the Supreme Council of Ukraine. The inter-fractional inter-ministerial association "Encouraging the development of cooperation between Ukraine and the State of Israel" was elected by Gurvice Eduardo Josephovich, deputy to Bondar Viktor Vasilovich. In accordance with article 229 of the Supreme Council of Ukraine regulations, "the hour of questions to the Government" is held on Friday at 10 a.m. The Prime Minister of Ukraine, Mikola Janović Azarov, and members of the Government, the Cabinet of Ministers of Ukraine, are taking part in the meeting of the Supreme Council of Ukraine. Let's welcome our government. [[Applause]] Dear colleagues, representatives of the MPs have made proposals on "hours of questions to the government" to listen to information from the Cabinet of Ministers of Ukraine regarding the treasury management of the budget in the current year and the state of affairs in the UG. All the MP factions, except for the faction of the All-Ukrainian Union of Fatherland, based on part six of article 229 of the Rules of the Supreme Council of Ukraine, have notified the Cabinet of Ministers in advance of the questions that will be asked under "hours of questions to the Government". Answering the questions posed by the deputy factions will be the first deputy head of the State Treasury Service of Ukraine, Danevich Alexander Stepanovich (head of the vacation service) and Minister of Energy and Coal Industry of Ukraine, Stavitsky Edouard Anatoliyovich. And according to the requirements of part four of article 229 of the Rules, the following order is proposed. I'm asking for your attention! Next order of business is an hour of questions to the government. Take the first deputy head of the State Treasury and 15 minutes of the Minister of Energy and Coal Industry to answer the written and oral questions from the faction. It's 30 minutes. And on the question of the National Deputies to the Cabinet of Ministers of Ukraine, and the deputies raised such a question, take up to 30 minutes. And give one minute each oral question and two minutes to answer the questions. Therefore, honorary colleagues are invited to the rostrum by the first deputy head of the State Treasury Service of Ukraine, Danevich Alexander Stepanović. Where do we have a deputy head of the State Treasury? Probably hasn't arrived yet. Well, let's first listen to Minister of Energy and Coal Industry of Stavitsky Eduardo Anatoliyovich. Please. But don't shout, everybody's got it, let's hear it. We're gonna work out what you're yelling at. Please.
ParlaMint-UA_2013-05-17-m0.u2	Good afternoon, distinguished national MPs! Good afternoon, Your Honor! On March 29, 2013, there was a fire at the Hungarian T.E.S. Pat Centrenergo, which led to the total destruction of the roof of the first line of the T.E.S. engine room and its complete stop. On March 30th, a meeting of the government commission was held under the chairmanship of Deputy Prime Minister Boyk Jury Anatoliyovich of Ukraine, at which the prime social, financial and technical arrangements for the restoration of the work of TES were determined and the reasons for the fire at the Vuglegirian TES were entrusted. During March 30 and 31, 2013, the active activities of the TES staff, together with the State Service of Ukraine, have eliminated the possibility of resurgence through the full deployment of dust and coal bunkers. Since April 1, 2013, restoration work has begun. On April 15, at a meeting of the commission under my head, it was determined that the cause of the accident was a violation of the TES Rules for the technical operation of the sawmill system, which led to the accumulation and combustion of coal dust in the engine room. As of May 17, 2013, the cleaning of the engine room was completely completed and the restoration work and failure of electrical and thermal equipment and control systems began. According to previous defects, which includes measuring the electrical and mechanical characteristics of the power grid equipment, resistance to the isolation of the turbogenerator meets the standards. No defects have been detected on the head restraints. No rotation of rotors was detected at 360 degrees. No changes in the geometric speeds of turbines and generators have been detected. Cauldron equipment, including boilers, gravity systems, and sawing systems, is not damaged. The deadline for completion of the disability is set by the Commission on May 31, 2013. It takes a complete restoration of the roof, the engine room, and the automated power management system. An appropriate commission has been created to organize and monitor the progress of renewed work in Minernergogil, and with a view to operationalizing and adopting agreed technical decisions, a sub-section of the Minernergogeel Scientific and Technical Council. Pat Centrenergo has prepared technical tasks and cost-effective documentation for the technical remodeling of the construction of the first line of the Hungarian TEC, a list of first-hand works, works of construction testing and a project of the built-up fund account for about 76 million dollars. On April 26, 2013, he was sent to Min. In order to prepare and implement a fund-raising order from the Reserve Fund for the first-line measures taken to eliminate the consequences of the emergency at the Vuglegar thermal power plant PAT Centrenergo. I would also like to point out that at the last government meeting, a decision had already been made on the allocation of these funds. In addition, technical tasks and cost documentation have been prepared for the renewal of the work system for the renewal of the control and control of the power grids at the UG. And also a project by the Cabinet of Ministers to restore the work of the Hungarian T.E.P.T.P. "Centrenergo", which is intended to establish an additional payment in the form of an electricity tariff in terms of the costs set out in the project for the construction of the automatic control system. Work is being done on the construction of the first line of bridge cranes, with the completion of the 31st of May of the current year. Designated subcontractors to carry out a construction survey with the completion date 30 June of the current year. The design and restoration of the machine room and the automated social affairs management system was adopted by the CMU Regulation (since 22 April 2013) (No.332) "Some issues of the stability of the situation in the city of Svetlodar, Donetsk Region, as a result of the fire at the Vuglegar TES". With the aim of providing electricity to the inhabitants of Svetlodarsk between 1 April 2013 and the completion of measures to restore centralized heating, an electricity tariff of 21 copies of 54 hundred, regardless of the volume of consumption, has been set. There is also a monthly additional payment to the PAT "Centrenergo" electricity release rate in the size of the actual monthly labour fund, which is owed to the industrial and manufacturing staff of the uglegier TES, which accounts for about 20 million dollars per month. Ladies and gentlemen, questions have been raised as to clarifying some of the data. What were the reasons for the establishment of an interdisciplinary commission? As I said in my opening statement, the reason was the failure to change the technical conditions of operation on this site, which led to the accumulation of dust. As a result, it broke out and led to a fire in the upper deck. The question is, what is the damage to the energy system of the region and the state as a result of the exit of the largest energy-generating enterprise? I want to answer. The halting of the work of the Hungarian TEC did not result in a disruption of the work of the U.S.O.S. Ukraine and therefore no damage was reported. With regard to the question, what are the actions taken by the State, the authorities to eliminate the consequences of the accident, and the renewal of the work of the UG? As I have noted, a committee was set up under the chairmanship of Deputy Prime Minister Boyk Yuri Anatoliyovich. We have a permanent headquarters. The next headquarters will take place in the first decade of June in order to fully obtain the results of the first part of the liquidation, namely the defect that will be followed by the decommissioning plan for the restoration and launch of the power grids in the current year. As to the question, what was done to provide for the city of Svetlodarsk and to eliminate the social problems resulting from the accident? First of all, it's a reduction in the locals' tariff of 21.54 kips, as well as an allocation. A decision was made on the construction of a gas boiler in Svetlodarsk on the basis of an existing trolleybus depot. The indicative cost is 57 million dollars, which will make it impossible to prevent emergency heating issues during the heating season. In addition, it was decided by the Cabinet of Ministers, on May 15, to allocate funds to assist victims of an accident in the Hungarian TES, which required the allocation of funds from the State Budget Reserve Fund to provide assistance to victims of an accident in the Hungarian TES. Costs will be allocated to the full extent of current legislation. With regard to the question, what basic lessons should the authorities learn from the accident in the uglegiary TES, especially with regard to the prevention of similar incidents, continue? According to the Order of Minernergogil 31.03. In 2013 (No. 137), 8 objects were checked for the organization of the technical status checks on the heat generation facilities during the April month of the current year, namely: Starobješevska, Slovenian TEZ Pat "Donbasenergo", Kurakhivska TET "DTEK Szdenergo", Charity TEZ Pat "DTEK Westeringo", Tripilska TEZ "Zmiyivska", Hungarian TES Pat "Centrenergo" and Pat "Odeska TES". In order to prevent such violations and other heat plants, the following measures are considered necessary: develop measures for the implementation of fire protection measures in accordance with the SSS 40.1-21677681 for the scientific and scientific research institutes; develop a project of closed-circuit repair hatches on reverse sawmills, which will prevent them from being opened without permission from the senior operational staff of the station block; develop a project on a device to remove coal dust spilling in the decoupling of the decoupling of the decoupling of the decoupling of the decoupling of the decoupling of the decoupling of the decoupling of the decoupling of the decoupling of the decoupling of the decoupling device; develop projects for the introduction of fire extinguishers and automatic roofing of machinery halls from an independent power source. Thank you for your attention.
ParlaMint-UA_2013-05-17-m0.u3	There's five more minutes. The MPs, please, have a question for the deputies? Please, Baby, ask me a question.
ParlaMint-UA_2013-05-17-m0.u4	Oleg Lazko, Radical Party. I have a question for Prime Minister Azarov. Dear Mr. Prime Minister, for days the budget committee has not supported my bill to cancel the financing of state funds. I would like to inform the citizens that this year's budget provides 56 million dollars to finance state funds. I'm addressing you as Prime Minister, and I want the citizens of Ukraine and society to testify to their personal position as Prime Minister on the fact that there are government donations in Ukraine. I ask you to set an example for the whole country and to leave the state house today, live at your own expense. You have a normal pension, you have a normal salary, you have business, you have everything in the world. Why do you need a government grant? I think that those who live in public houses are moral poverty. That's the first question. And the second. What kind of fool gave the command to repair the central street of Gruszewski when thousands of miles of roads are unrepaired.?
ParlaMint-UA_2013-05-17-m0.u5	Deputies! We have a minister on the rostrum, so let's keep it that way. We'll have ministers when they're gone, 30 minutes to the government. I'm asking MPs, there's four minutes to sign up for the minister. Please sign up. I'll do it. It'll be the answer later. The minister is standing. Please, let's do it. Do you have a question for the minister? [[B in m in s a l in]] Got it. Oksana Prodan, strike faction, ask the minister a question.
ParlaMint-UA_2013-05-17-m0.u6	Dear Edward Anatolyovich, please tell me what happened to the Ministry. At the same time, we have a government that maintains and lives fairly well by the State’s labour authorities. Today, these authorities do not protect workers at all, nor do they teach employers what to do to avoid such situations. And in your report, I haven't heard a word of it. on an assessment by a public authority that is obliged to provide and warn about the accidents that have taken place. Because, in fact, not only should your ministry be responsible for the situation, but also a designated body that is held accountable for taxpayers' money. So how do you feel about how effective the State's job security is today? in Ukraine?
ParlaMint-UA_2013-05-17-m0.u7	Thank you for asking. First of all, I would like to point out that the State's job security, in my opinion, works well, because they carry out continuous preventive work among not only the workers of our industry but also others. What I want to say is, how did the liquidation happen? And what I want to point out is that, because of the joint actions of the Circumstances that are responsible for these issues, we responded at the right time to all the points that might have arisen as a result of this accident. As for the question of how they respond to these questions, an act has been passed on to all interested central executive authorities. If you have a personal question to me and a question to ask, we will send you this act in which everything is fully explained and how it has been responded. As for after the accident, I'd like to point out that we're going to have a seminar on the warning of cases. And together with the workers in charge of labor protection, we have, for example, a large seminar tomorrow in the Transnistrian GES, where all energy professionals are invited to take the example of this accident to consider issues of labour protection. Thank you.
ParlaMint-UA_2013-05-17-m0.u8	Agafone, strike faction, please.
ParlaMint-UA_2013-05-17-m0.u9	Please pass the word to Sergey Kaplin.
ParlaMint-UA_2013-05-17-m0.u10	Please, Sergey Kaplin.
ParlaMint-UA_2013-05-17-m0.u11	Sergey Kaplin, Vitalia Klitschka Faction, Poltava District, Poltava City. Why aren't national MPs asking, Vladimir Vasilovich, questions to ministers? But because everyone is clearly aware that the personal responsibility for all the critical situations in the country: in the economy, in social policy -- is borne directly by the President and Prime Minister of Ukraine. And I'd like to take this opportunity to go to the Minister of Internal Affairs, in particular, so that he knows if he doesn't know, and if he knows, to take measures. You know that Lukash's case was violated, as well as according to Sergey Kaplina and Vitaly Klitschka, in connection with Mikola Janović Azarov's misdemeanours at the Cabinet of Ministers meeting when he actually brought the National Deputy of Ukraine out of the Hall. So please let Mikola Janović appear as a witness there because he is not present in this matter. If I were the Minister of Internal Affairs.
ParlaMint-UA_2013-05-17-m0.u12	Ladies and gentlemen, no questions to the minister? But I'm asking you to ask the minister. National MP. Please, Kyda. Is there a minister?
ParlaMint-UA_2013-05-17-m0.u13	To the miller, please give the word to Eugene.
ParlaMint-UA_2013-05-17-m0.u14	Please, Melnik. National MP Melnik, please.
ParlaMint-UA_2013-05-17-m0.u15	Eugene Melnik, 19th Majority District, the All-Ukrainian Freedom Union. Dear Mr. Minister! There is a mining town called Novovolinsk, where three mines are planned to be closed. But the point. It's where the 10th mine is being built, and today the 10th mine from the State Budget is being built because of the time-consuming processing of documents by the state firm "Budrection" has not received any bracelets. This has led to the debt on salary to the employees of the State Enterprise Coal Transfer Directorate No.10 of Novovolinska since December 2012 and the state of almost 10 million dollars for April 2013. I was approached by the workers of the mine.
ParlaMint-UA_2013-05-17-m0.u16	Please finish.
ParlaMint-UA_2013-05-17-m0.u17	Dear Minister! I was asked by the workers at Mine 10 to help them pay a salary of 10 million. Thank you.
ParlaMint-UA_2013-05-17-m0.u18	Thank you for asking. I want to point out that we don't have an income debt in the coal sector. If there have been delays, please ask me in person to check the facts. That's the first one. Second, about mine construction No. 10. At the last government meeting, a decision was made to finance the construction of 250 million dollars this year and 460 million dollars next year. And I would also like to point out, Your Honor, that the government is working hard on the restructuring of the coal sector. And all the resources that are needed to ensure vitality, as well as sequential coal mining as a result of the needs, are all budgeted by the state budget. And all the decisions are taken by the government at the right time. Thank you.
ParlaMint-UA_2013-05-17-m0.u19	Edward Anatolyovich, thank you. Sit down, your time is up. I invite the First Deputy Minister of Finance of Merkovsky Anatoly Ivanovich to answer the questions that the deputies have in financial and financial terms. Ten minutes to answer your question.
ParlaMint-UA_2013-05-17-m0.u20	Thank you. Dear Vladimir Vasilovich! Dear National Deputies! With regard to treasury services, there were 19 questions from four MP factions: 7 questions from the Party of Regions, 6 questions from "Blowing" to "Freedom" 5, 1 question from the Communist Party. The list of questions is quite broad. Therefore, given the need for time limitations and time constraints and the common theme of many questions, they will be answered in a general way. First question. As for the treasury execution of the public and local budgets for January-April this year. According to the monthly report, the total government budget income of 4 months amounted to 106.1 billion dollars, nearly 5 billion dollars more than the same period in 2012. The revenue of the State Budget General Fund amounted to 91.4 billion dollars, an increase of 5.5 percent. The income of the local budgets during this time amounted to 68.5 billion dollars, or 6.4 billion dollars, or 10 percent more of the same period last year. The government budget’s cash expenditures for the 4 months of this year amounted to $121.7 billion and increased by nearly 17 billion over the same period last year, or 16.2 percent. Of the total government budget, $109.5 billion was spent, local budget cash costs were nearly 71.2 billion, and the increase was 11 percent. A total of 64.5 billion dollars was spent from the local budget fund. The volume of January-April inter-budget transfers was 36.3 billion dollars or 11.5 percent more in the same period last year. In particular, social subsidies are directed at nearly 16 billion dollars, including the payment of assistance to families with children, low-income families, disabled children, disabled children, and temporary assistance to children -- $12.6 billion, which is 22.3 percent more than in the corresponding period of last year. The alignment grants are listed in 19 billion dollars. As regards the timeliness of payment of the State Treasury Service of registered financial obligations. According to budgetary legislation, treasury bodies make expenditure on the basis of payment orders from budget managers and recipients if there is a corresponding budget commitment and financial commitment, within the remaining funds in the accounts of the budget administrators and recipients, under the relevant codes of the economic classification of expenditure and the classification of credit. In the execution of the expenses of the arrangers and recipients of the funds, the treasury authorities, in the first place, provided for the execution of the protected articles of expenditure. These include salary payments, scholarships, utility and energy bills, food, medicines, and so forth. In the registration of budgetary obligations, supporting documents provided by the money managers are processed by the treasury authorities under appropriate procedures: protected articles – which do not require one day of purchase, protected articles that require purchase procedures other than capital expenditure, 3 operating days at other current costs - up to 3 operating days and at capital costs - up to 5 operating days. On May 1, this year, the treasury authorities do not have unpaid documents for the local budget manager for protected articles of expenditure. All payment orders made by local budget administrators are paid in full. Unprotected articles show that there is a registered budget commitment of 260 million dollars. Payment orders for these amounts are in the process of processing. This indicates the absence of mass delays by the State Treasury Office for Payments and the blocking of accounts. With regard to the adoption of measures to prevent debt owed to teachers from paying wages and vacations. In order to provide timely pay-outs, vacations and material assistance for the rehabilitation of teaching staff at the State Treasury Service, the Ministry of Finance has been entrusted with the task of providing in May/July of this year, in the event of a lack of own resources for this purpose, loans to cover temporary cash gaps in local budgets in the amount of more marginal to extend their repayment periods, means, for 3 months, that will guarantee such payments in full terms. As at 16.05 this year, salaries payable to staff in budgetary institutions maintained as state and local budgets, whose payment period has passed, are not available. With regard to loans to local budgets for temporary cash breaks and medium-term loans at the expense of the ERDF. Over 4 months of this year, over 9.6 thousand loans totalling 14 billion dollars have been made to cover such cash breaks of local budgets. These loans have been repaid in the amount of nearly 11 billion dollars. In addition, the local budget provided 118 medium - term loans for almost 400 million dollars. As for the amount of funds allocated over the current year for socio-economic development of areas. Nearly one billion dollars have been allocated for this goal in four months, including from the general fund — almost 400 million dollars or 100 percent of the government budget. Total cost is listed. With regard to ensuring compliance with the requirements of article 108 of the Ukrainian Budget Code (for listing local allocations). Local budgets receive a daily grant of compensation in accordance with the regulations laid down in the State Budget Act. The amount of this grant depends on the receipt of certain revenue from the general budget fund in the relevant territory. Not received according to the daily standards, the amount of the compensations shall be listed not later than 10 months of the next reporting month. In the current year, as in the previous year, the government has provided for a fixed-term recalculation of grants not received according to the standards of the first days of the month. I'm staying at 16.05. This year's grants are listed in the local budgets of 20.1 billion dollars, including at the central level of 4.7 billion. With regard to the financial resources allocated from the State budget to compensate for the financial security of local budgets. This year, there are 1 billion dollars in the government budget, of which 22.22.4 million dollars for January/June, are listed in full. Regarding the financial provision of state social assistance to families with children. Funding State aid is one of the priorities of the State’s budgetary policy. National social assistance to families with children is determined by the large amounts of government-funded subsidies to local budgets for these types of social assistance In 2013, the total amount of subsidies increased by 7 billion dollars compared to the previous year. In total, during the four months of this year, 12.6 billion dollars were spent on families with low-income families, disabled persons, disabled children, and temporary assistance financed from state - budget subsidies, which is 22.3 percent more than in the corresponding period of last year. With regard to the financing of construction, reconstruction, and repair of roads for general use, credits involved under State guarantees. As a whole, the total cost of financing roads totalling 4.1 billion dollars has been allocated for the year 15.05. Of these, the cost of the road fund is 1.7 billion dollars, and the cost of the guarantee is 1.8 billion dollars. And from the central level, a subsidy is given to local budgets of 0.6 billion dollars to maintain local roads. With regard to deposit accounts, local budgets are temporarily available. Over the course of this year, nearly 1 billion dollars have been allocated. Infringement of budgetary legislation in the execution of payment orders by the Treasury. In general, during this period, four months. There have been such violations.
ParlaMint-UA_2013-05-17-m0.u21	Anatoly Ivanovich, thank you for not being able to ask the ministers questions. Have a seat. Ladies and gentlemen, we have 23 minutes. [[B in m in s a l in]] Listen to what I'm saying, don't shout! We have 23 minutes. The MPs will be able to log in and ask questions to the minister and to the member. The Cabinet of Ministers. So let me introduce you to who is present: Vice Prime Minister of Ukraine Boyko Yuri Anatoliyovich is present, Vice Prime Minister of Ukraine Wilkul Alexander Yuriovich. [[B in m in s a l in]] The government needs to know. Vice-Prime Minister Gristenko Kostunica Ivanovich, Minister of the Cabinet of Ministers Lukash Olena Leonidovna Minister of Agriculture Policy in the Shipment, you know, First Deputy present – Bisuk; Minister of Internal Affairs Zharchenko Vitaliy Juriovich; Minister of Revenue and Assembly Klimenko Alexander Viktorovich; Minister of Ecology Proscurakov Oleg Albertovich; Minister of Economic Development Prasolov Igor Mikolajovich; Minister of Foreign Affairs Kožara in Poland, First Deputy Demchenko present; Minister of Infrastructure Kozak Vladimir Vasilovich; Minister of Culture Novohatko Leonid Mihalovich; Minister of Youth and Sports Safiullin Ravil Safovich; Minister of Defence of Lebedev Pavel Valentinovich; Minister of Health and Health; Minister of Health; [[B in m in s a l in]] It's impossible for you to go out into the hallway and yell, so what are you doing? Minister of Health Bogatirirov Raisa Vasilovna is absent, attending: Kačur; Minister of Industrial Policy Queen Mikhail Kostinović; Minister of Regional Development Mr. Hennady Pavlovich is present as Deputy Minister Samcuk Grigory Mihajlovich; Minister of Social Policy Royal Natali Jurijovna; Merkovsky spoke from the Ministry of Finance; Minister of Justice Mr. Lavrinović Alexander Volodymyrovich. So you have the opportunity to sign up in a minute and ask the ministers who are present in this room. Please sign up. Party of regions, please Shipko. We've got 20 minutes for this job.
ParlaMint-UA_2013-05-17-m0.u22	Good afternoon! I have a question before the first Deputy Minister of Health, Kachura Aleksandra Yuriovich. Dear Alexander Yuriovich, there is such a question. As the head of the Committee on Pharmaceuticals, the Committee on Health, I would like to ask you: Is it possible to trust drugs produced in Ukraine or are they manufactured according to international standards? Thank you.
ParlaMint-UA_2013-05-17-m0.u23	Please, answer me.
ParlaMint-UA_2013-05-17-m0.u24	Ladies and gentlemen, in 2009, the requirements of Good Productive Practice (GMP) were implemented under licensing conditions, that is, they became mandatory for domestic manufacturers of medical devices. In addition, Ukraine's legislation in the field of state registration of medicines and medical (immunological) drugs is fully in line with EU rules and standards, WHO recommendations, the international conference on the circulation of medical devices, which ensures the arrival of effective, safe and quality medical devices in Ukraine's market. In turn, the State Service of Ukraine is working actively to improve the legal and regulatory framework by harmonising Ukraine's legislation with European legislation. Thank you.
ParlaMint-UA_2013-05-17-m0.u25	I beg you, the Party of the Regions, Butkowski.
ParlaMint-UA_2013-05-17-m0.u26	Dear Vladimir Vasilovich, would like to give the floor to the national deputy Momot Alexander Ivanovich.
ParlaMint-UA_2013-05-17-m0.u27	Please, Momot, National Deputy.
ParlaMint-UA_2013-05-17-m0.u28	National MP Momot, 27 constituency, Dnipropetrovsk, Party of Regions. We hear a lot about the state of our rivers, the state of our water treatment plants. So I have a question: what does the government do to provide quality drinking water to the population? Thank you.
ParlaMint-UA_2013-05-17-m0.u29	Please. Who Answers?
ParlaMint-UA_2013-05-17-m0.u30	Dear National Deputies! You know, there's a law that approves the U.K. Drinking Water Program. Appropriate programs are being developed in each region and work is now under way to improve the quality of drinking water. With a view to providing quality drinking water to the population, the main goal is to provide up to three liters a day for a man to install drinking - water treatment systems in group areas, as well as in hospitals, schools, kindergartens. More than seven thousand such systems have already been installed. In the current year, according to the direction of economic revitalization, the projected cost is about two billion that will be. At the expense of which a thousand 142 cleaning systems will be installed. Work is also being done to modernize the centralized heating system, which is also provided by this program. That's why this issue is in the Ministry's control, and we're going to do everything we can, in accordance with the stated Water of Ukraine program.
ParlaMint-UA_2013-05-17-m0.u31	Ukraine's Company, the People's Deputy of Matthew.
ParlaMint-UA_2013-05-17-m0.u32	Please give the floor to your colleague Sergio Goncharov.
ParlaMint-UA_2013-05-17-m0.u33	Pass it on, please.
ParlaMint-UA_2013-05-17-m0.u34	Toncharov, the Company's faction. Dear Mikola Janovich, in Ukraine oil processing dropped by almost 49 percent. At the same time, imports increased to a dangerous level, fuel to 56 percent, and fuel to 70 percent. Plants don't work or work on breaks. If the situation does not change, Ukraine will completely lose its oil processing, which will result in extremely negative consequences, from increasing the imbalance of external balance to unemployment. Please tell me, what is the government's response to the restoration of oil refineries, such as the Lysican NPP?
ParlaMint-UA_2013-05-17-m0.u35	Please, Boyka.
ParlaMint-UA_2013-05-17-m0.u36	Thank you. Thank you for asking. Dear colleagues, we have a two-part oil industry recovery program. The first is the launch of two oil refineries, Odessa and Lysichanski, the first company to decide, and the second one to negotiate with Rosneft, which is the owner of the plant. And the company manager promised that the company would work in the fall. And the second question, which is equally important, is to renovate and modernize these enterprises to meet modern requirements and to be able to produce world-class products. This program also, with factory owners, it's going to work, and it's going to be implemented within three years. We took the same kind of business that was rebuilt in Russia. Thank you.
ParlaMint-UA_2013-05-17-m0.u37	Party of regions, Lutikova, National MP.
ParlaMint-UA_2013-05-17-m0.u38	I have a question for the Ministry of Social Policy. The government is developing the idea of lowering the welfare rate in the Wages Fund. How and by what sources do you plan to close the increase in the pension deficit resulting from such changes?
ParlaMint-UA_2013-05-17-m0.u39	Please, answer me.
ParlaMint-UA_2013-05-17-m0.u40	Thank you so much for asking. Short. Now, the 4 months of this year's pension fund has received 4 billion 500 million dollars more than it did last year. The pension deficit was also confirmed this year by 25 percent less than last year. And today the approved deficit is 21 billion dollars. Of course, in order to shorten the only social contribution now, we're looking for compensatory mechanisms. And along with the Ministry of Income, we're working on all of these options right now. But we're all very well aware that there's not going to be a reduction until we're clearly building a single road map on compensation for coming to the Pension Fund. All pensions are paid on time. May pensions were all paid in April, until May 12. And 10 billion dollars have already been counted in this month. All social assistance is also paid on time. And I've already said that the coming of the Pension Fund has been overrun by 4.5 billion dollars. That is, positive dynamics and by the end of the year, all pensions will be paid in full and on time. Thank you for your attention.
ParlaMint-UA_2013-05-17-m0.u41	Thank you. The national deputy of Labunsk. Please.
ParlaMint-UA_2013-05-17-m0.u42	National Deputy Labunska, 63 constituency, Zitomirščina I have two questions. First question to Deputy Prime Minister Vilkul. I want to ask if there's any kind of program developed by the State today. I think the question of repairing roads concerns everyone, not just my constituents from Zitomirsk. I mean, the roads went down with the snow. And today we can adopt a lot of laws, not fast ones today, not traffic at all. I've been seeing a representative of The Stork. Mine. The route in my district is about to go to Winnie's local significance. State, and what's just been laid there today, you know, today all taxi drivers from Zitomir refuse to go to Berdichev at all. And that's right before Winnitz. I want to ask if there's a government program and a road repair plan in my district not only, but in Ukraine at all. What is the Cabinet of Ministers going to do today? And I have a second question for the representative of the State Treasury.
ParlaMint-UA_2013-05-17-m0.u43	Thank you. Let me ask you a question. To all the deputies. Most of them. Please. Alexander Yuriovich, please.
ParlaMint-UA_2013-05-17-m0.u44	As far as the road is concerned. I agree with you. We're not in the best position for a number of reasons. First reason. Our paths were built in the 60s and 70s and were designed to load 6.5 tons, today it is 11.5. So at 2, 3 times the weight of today's trucks is higher than that of the roads that were designed. This is the first time. It's different. 10 times more cars today than it was in the 60s or 70s, which is an extra load on the road. And the third question is, this is chronic underfunding over the last 20 years. And a very difficult winter this year, which. is equal to 7-8 winters. These problems have led to the situation you are talking about. But first, at a meeting of the government of the deceased, there was a concept of road sector reform, which envisions both increased funding, and the distribution of responsibility on every road, the roads of state ownership of Autodor, roads and local government. But personal responsibility, along with funding, is essential. Third. The introduction of new standards, including additions, cubes, and much more. And the distribution of the control function. He's building the Autodor himself today. He's controlling it. Our target model is organizational -- quality must be controlled by the Statetransinspection. That's why this concept is now being adopted, the program is being adopted. And we're going this way. But we have to work today. So I can tell you today that the government has also made a decision to distribute objects. And this year we will have 600 objects. These are also highways, and these are highways through, near many cities, so as to be able to use the transit potential that is available. Experts estimate that Ukraine can raise its GDP by 5 percent if it uses its logistics potential. As for the current repairs, the current repairs, that's the most painful question I think your voters are asking. Because the utility roads that are there.
ParlaMint-UA_2013-05-17-m0.u45	Two minutes, thank you. I'm asking you, the Vitalia Cliché faction, Rosenko.
ParlaMint-UA_2013-05-17-m0.u46	Please pass the word to Irina Heratchenko.
ParlaMint-UA_2013-05-17-m0.u47	Please, Irina Heratschenko.
ParlaMint-UA_2013-05-17-m0.u48	Dear colleagues! I would like to refer the question to Prime Minister of Ukraine Mikoli Janović Azarov. Mr. Prime Minister, today and tomorrow are working days in Ukraine, according to government orders. At the same time, our faction receives massive appeals from budget officials that today and tomorrow they are being thrown into the regional party, especially in Donetsk, tomorrow they are taking to Kiev. We'd like to ask you to use direct air right now and turn to all the direct heads of budget, to the governors, that people should be in their jobs, not the rally. That's the first question. And the second. From the faction, we registered a decree to cancel government donations, especially for former government officials. From Ukraine’s hungry budget this year, 56 million are set aside for these state houses. In any European country, former officials do not live in public houses. How is this coordinated with European integration, and when will former government officials be evicted from government houses? Thank you.
ParlaMint-UA_2013-05-17-m0.u49	Ladies and gentlemen, I am instructing the Minister of Education of Tobacco to prohibit participation and coerce seniors to participate in any political action. And I ask the Minister of Tobacco to guide me to all the facilities under his command. Now I want to give him my word for an answer.
ParlaMint-UA_2013-05-17-m0.u50	Please.
ParlaMint-UA_2013-05-17-m0.u51	Honorable National MPs.
ParlaMint-UA_2013-05-17-m0.u52	Don't get involved in answering questions.
ParlaMint-UA_2013-05-17-m0.u53	Ladies and gentlemen, the Ministry once again controls to ensure that on Saturday, which is not a working day for higher education institutions, no one forces teachers and other teachers to take part in the activities. At the same time, I'd like to contact the opposition's representatives with a request, and we also have information to stop recruiting students for their money. Because I think it's ruining the normal learning process in higher institutions and college institutions. Thank you for your attention.
ParlaMint-UA_2013-05-17-m0.u54	Party of regions, National Deputy Fabricant, please.
ParlaMint-UA_2013-05-17-m0.u55	Good afternoon. I have a question for the Ministry of Income and Congregations. Ladies and gentlemen, if the transfer pricing bill is accepted, how much additional budgeting is budgeted by the government because, as you know, different figures have begun to appear, even though they were initially talking about the annual 20 billion dollars.
ParlaMint-UA_2013-05-17-m0.u56	Thank you so much for asking. Indeed, the adoption of the transfer pricing bill is a step forward, a step forward for all of us to make the necessary changes. We see today that, the position of business on this, and it's acceptable, the position of the government, we have a committee. And I am very grateful for this work together. With regard to the additional revenue that will come into the state budget, this sum is estimated at about 20 billion experts. But we break these amounts in years. Some of these amounts will already come into the budget this year if it's accepted in the near future, because the financial and industrial groups will already be rebuilding their schemes and part of the revenue will already be paid to Ukraine. First of all, our principle position, for which I thank both the committee and the people's deputies who support this initiative. is that profit must be taxed and paid where there are production capacities, that is, in Ukraine. So in addition, 20 billion dollars will come into the budget, but I think three years from now, but I don't think that's the main thing. The important thing is that we will bring our legislation to the standards that are today in Europe. And if we see what Europe is doing today, we see that everyone today is struggling with so-called tax havens. And we have already taken a very decisive step on this issue. I thank everyone who supports it, and I hope that the bill will be supported shortly. Thank you.
ParlaMint-UA_2013-05-17-m0.u57	Ladies and gentlemen, last question. The Fatherland faction, Tarasuk.
ParlaMint-UA_2013-05-17-m0.u58	Please give it to Volodymyr Bondarenko.
ParlaMint-UA_2013-05-17-m0.u59	Pass it on, please.
ParlaMint-UA_2013-05-17-m0.u60	Vladimir Bondarenko, united opposition to the Fatherland. Mikola Janovich, today we have dozens of messages from various cities in Ukraine, including Western areas and those closer to Kiev, that yesterday at 12 o'clock the internal affairs authorities were committed to not allowing any unit of transportation to Kiev to transport citizens who might be on the stock, and not selling any tickets to buses, trains, that is to block the action by such methods. I think that such warnings do not meet the rules of the Constitution of article 33 on the freedom of movement of citizens in Ukraine. And I think that you, as Prime Minister, should take immediate steps to ensure the freedom of movement of Ukrainian citizens throughout the territory in your spare time.
ParlaMint-UA_2013-05-17-m0.u61	Thank you. Vitaly Yuriovich, Minister of Interior. Please.
ParlaMint-UA_2013-05-17-m0.u62	Thank you for asking. Ladies and gentlemen, I want to tell you that there are no obstacles to the organization of civil peace meetings in Ukraine. No one gave such appropriate commands. There will be, if you have any cases, please give me personal information, and I will take it to my control and arrange for it to be tested. Thank you.
ParlaMint-UA_2013-05-17-m0.u63	Ladies and gentlemen, the "hour of questioning to the government" is over. Let us thank them and wish them fruitful work. Thank you.
ParlaMint-UA_2013-05-17-m0.u64	Honorable National Deputies, in accordance with article 25 of the Supreme Council of Ukraine Rules on Friday, we have 30 minutes to announce our requests. I'm announcing the parliamentary questions that have come. Alexander Przysznyuk and Alexander Zubcevski to the President of Ukraine on the urgency of actions to prevent the mass reduction of scientific and pedagogical staff in higher education institutions. Ladies and gentlemen, I'm putting a motion to vote in support of the request. [[11:00:42]] For 210 I'm putting forward a motion for a vote for a request to the President of Ukraine, please vote. [[11:01:02]] For 230 Decision accepted, request sent. Groups of National Deputies (Korniychuka, Tkakouk and others) A total of 12 deputies) to the Attorney General of Ukraine on the inappropriate response, delay and formal approach to the consideration of the parliamentary appeal by law enforcement authorities regarding the situation surrounding the immovable property objects at the address of the city of Kyiv, Prespekt Moscow, 23. Alexia Kayda to the Prime Minister of Ukraine regarding the maintenance of the territorial standards of the training and sports base in the village of Suburban Ternopil region, the cancellation of the authority of the head of the Ternopil district government since 18 October 2012 No1033 "On the permission to build projects by the land administration for the disposal of land for individual gardening in the sub-urban rural council". Igor Sabia to the Attorney General of Ukraine on the legality of the actions of Major Vadim Yuzikov. Anton Kisse to the Prime Minister of Ukraine regarding the intervention in the situation involving the waters of Lake Yalpug, located in the southern districts of the Odessa region. Roman Ilik to the Prime Minister of Ukraine for the creation of a targeted state budget programme to finance the restoration work of the National Academy of Ukrainian Dramatic Theatre Zankovetski and the allocation of funds from the State Budget for the 2013 renovation and restoration work of the theatre. Mikoli Gigi to the Prime Minister of Ukraine regarding the urgent measures taken to finally dispose of unfit and banned chemical products for the protection of plants in the Jurin poisoner, located in the village of Jurin in the region of Chargograd, in order to prevent technological disaster and to prevent negative consequences for residents of the region, as well as the environment. Victor Baloga to the head of the Kyiv City State Administration for the improper treatment of the Kyiv City State Administration on the issue of the security of kyans in preschool schools. Anton Dorokhov to the Prime Minister of Ukraine on the possible destruction of the State institution of postgraduate education "Centre for Improving the Qualification of Chief Officials and Specialists of Industry". Vladimir Bondarenko to the Head of the Committee of the Supreme Council of Ukraine on the fight against organized crime and corruption against the rights of Ukrainian citizen Dmitri Bivalin and the inaction of law enforcement authorities. Irina Lucenko to the Attorney General of Ukraine on the violation of the constitutional right to own, use and dispose of the property of Ukrainian citizen Nelly Loginova. Andrija Pishny to the Prime Minister of Ukraine, the Attorney General of Ukraine, for the conduct of a verification of the conduct of corruption activities by officials of the Ministry of Health of Ukraine and the Ministry of Food Design in connection with the construction of a modern medical and diagnostic complex of the National Children's Hospital Ochmadit at the University of Ukrprofmed. Maxima Burbak to the Prime Minister of Ukraine on increasing the limits on the consumption of electricity for residents of Cherniv, who live in apartments equipped with boilers. Maxima Burbak to the Prime Minister of Ukraine on the subordination of the state-owned enterprise "Kernovitske" of the Bukovin Institute of Agricultural Production of the Ministry of Agricultural Policy and Food of Ukraine for its further reform and destruction of land and property. Alexander Zubcevski to the Prime Minister of Ukraine, the Attorney General of Ukraine, on the situation that took place at the Public Shareholder Company "Azmol" on the issue of debt on payment of wages and actual bankruptcy of state society. John Kirilenko to the Prime Minister of Ukraine on the failure to execute court decisions on the payment of annual lump sum payments of seven minimum pensions of the age of invalidity of the 3rd Volodymyr Grabovenko Group from the city of Volnovah Donetsk Region. Anatolia Goncharova to the Prime Minister of Ukraine for the restoration of elevators in Gorlovka Donetsk region. Vladimir Chuba to the Prime Minister of Ukraine on the allocation of additional funds for the modernisation of Alchevska's elevator economy. Peter Simonnck to the Attorney General of Ukraine on the fact that the Central Electoral Commission is inactive on the establishment of the forms of the U.S. referendum and the use of immediate response measures. Vladimir Litvina to the Prime Minister of Ukraine, head of the Ukrainian President's Administration, on the appointment of the head of the Hustian regime of the Zakarpat region. Vladimir Litvina and Yuri Thank you to the Prime Minister of Ukraine for the situation that resulted in the tax compensation for the added value of Cersanit Invest, Barlinek Invest, Monolit Building Union and the relationship between these operators and the customs authorities. Igora Miroshnicka and Alexander Mirnojna to the Attorney General of Ukraine, the Minister of Environment and Natural Resources of Ukraine, the Minister of Industrial Policy of Ukraine, the Minister of Income and Assembly of Ukraine, on a situation involving illegal oil and gas production in the area of the Kamyan village council of the region of Lebedinsk, which has resulted in pollution of the environment, massive social hazards and serious damage to the inhabitants of the region. Groups of National Deputies (Gerashchenko, Mochkova, Pavlovka) to the Minister of Internal Affairs of Ukraine, the Attorney General of Ukraine, on an objective investigation into the accident, which took place on 9 March of this year, with the participation of an SBA staff member and a ambulance in the city of Feodosia. Artema Semenyuk to the Minister of Energy and Coal Industry of Ukraine for the financing of the construction of underwater gas pipelines in the Zastavanni district of Cherniewec. Alexander the Jury to the Prime Minister of Ukraine on the financing of the State Youth Housing Programme for 2013-2017. Artura Martovicki to Prime Minister of Ukraine on the need to take immediate action to address the issues of improving targeted assistance to the population in passenger transport. Artura Martovicki to the Prime Minister of Ukraine on the need to take immediate action to address the issues of improving the organization of work in the field of technical inventory of immovable property. Alexander Vasiliev to the Minister of Justice of Ukraine on the settlement of certain issues of the work of the National Registration Service of Ukraine. Vitalia Chugunikov to the Attorney General of Ukraine on the non-refundation of deposits to investors of the public stock company Westinkombank. Ruslan Solvar to the Minister for Regional Development, Construction and Housing of Ukraine for the non-admission of further closure, liquidation and reorganization of the institutions and organizations of district subordination in the Makarov region of Kiev. Angelika Labunsky to the Prime Minister of Ukraine, the Attorney General of Ukraine, on the violation of the Alupro and Efkon-profile (city of Kiev, Prospect of the United 19, former Efkon plant), requirements of Ukrainian legislation for the protection of the environment, resulting in damage to the environment of the Dnipro river, and threats to public health. Angelika Labunsky to the Prime Minister of Ukraine, the Attorney General of Ukraine, the Chief Justice of the High Council of Justice on the abuse of the authority of the judge of the Ruzinski District Court of the Zitomir District of Vasil Neil and representatives of the Prosecutor's Office of the Ruzinski District in the form of systematic interference with the local self-government body of the Yagnetina Rural Council of the Ruzinski District of the Žitomir Region. Romana Shugal to the Attorney General of Ukraine, prosecutor of the Cherniewetsk Region, on the need to verify the improper use of funds by the City Council of Novodnystrovska, allocated by the public stock company Kyivstar to carry out internal and assembly work on the gasification of the nine surface buildings of the city of Novodnystrovsk Microregion of Dibrov, 1-H Cherniewec Region. Roman Shugal to the Minister of Health of Ukraine for the consideration of the claims made by residents of the Visinetsky region of the Cherniewec region on the grounds of concern about the closure of the TB ward belonging to the Visniké central hospital of the Cherniewec region. Ruslana Skarbowiyczuk to the Prime Minister of Ukraine for the return of the unpaid pension to the liquidator of the accident on CAES to the first category of Yuri Kutu. Igora Motka to the Minister of Infrastructure of Ukraine on changes in train traffic along the St. Petersburg-Mariupol routes, Bransk-Harkov and Bransk-Mariupol routes. Edward Leonov to the Prime Minister of Ukraine, the Attorney-General of Ukraine, the Minister of Internal Affairs of Ukraine, the Head of the Council of Ministers of the Autonomous Republic of Crimea on intentional damage, partial destruction and illegal privatization of the monument to the National importance of the 16th-century Turkish latrine complex in the city of Eupatoria. Mikoli Dmitruk to the Attorney General's Office of Ukraine, Cabinet of Ministers of Ukraine, Kyiv City State Administration on the conflict between residents of the apartment building and the private Tetal company during the reconstruction of the basement premises at the address of the city of Kyiv, Prospect of the Airtroflotski, 46. Olga Mikhailenko to the Prime Minister of Ukraine for the construction of underwater gas pipelines in the Herson region. Vassil Wooden to the Attorney General of Ukraine on the inaction of the Prosecutor's Office of the Ternopil region to prevent the official abuse of the heads of the local public administrations in the management of the land of state property located outside the population. Svetlana Fabricant to the Prime Minister of Ukraine, Minister of Infrastructure of Ukraine regarding Ukraine's failure to comply with its obligations to bring legislation into line with the Manila Amendments to the 1978 Convention on the Diploma, Preparation and Watchkeeping of Seafarers. Constantine Guzenka to the Minister of Social Policy of Ukraine on the collection and payment of the full pension allowance for the "children of war" category. Constantine Guzenka to the Minister of Social Policy of Ukraine for the financing of the planned budget programme. Stepan Kupil to the Attorney General of Ukraine for the completion of the verification of the falsification of the implementing documents in the bankruptcy case of the Open Association of the Red Cross (the village of Sokal district of Lviv district). Stepan Kurpil to the Prime Minister of Ukraine for the repair of the road to the general use of R-15 Covel-Corvonograd-Jovka. Jaroslava Dubnević to the minister of justice of Ukraine for the clarification of the mechanism for renting land rations to deceased citizens whose heirs failed to establish State acts on land or did not accept an inheritance. John Stoyk to the Prime Minister of Ukraine about the allocation of funds for the construction of the Melnice - Podilska - Borschev pipeline in the Ternopil region. John Stoyk to the Prime Minister of Ukraine about the allocation of funds for the construction of urban clean-up buildings in the city of Borsztów in the Ternopil region. Victor Gubar to the Prime Minister of Ukraine, the Attorney General of Ukraine, for the payment of arrears on wages to employees of enterprises in the Chernigian region. Valeria Calchenka to the Minister of Infrastructure of Ukraine for the restoration of electricity along the road "Voznesensk - Alexandria - Woznesensk". Valery Calchenk to the head of the State Television and Radio Committee of Ukraine on the provision of digital broadcasting services by television broadcasters from citizens of the Kirovograd region. Tetjana Donz to head the National Agency for Preparation and Conducting the final part of the European Championship in 2012 from football and infrastructure projects on the state of construction of the modern medical and diagnostic complex of the National Children's Hospital Ohmatdit. Tetjana Donez to the Minister of Health of Ukraine on infectious control of tuberculosis, the state of funding and the efficiency of the use of budgetary resources at Kyiv City Psychneurological Hospital No. 3 (Glevya Kyiv district). Hennady Fedorjak to the Cabinet of Ministers of Ukraine, the Ministry of Energy and Coal Industry of Ukraine, the Ministry of Finance of Ukraine, the Ministry of Regional Development, Construction and Housing of Ukraine, the National Shareholder Company Naftogaz Ukraine, on the gasification of the population sites of the region of Herceiv and Glucian. Hennady Fedorjak to the Cabinet of Ministers of Ukraine, Ministry of Finance of Ukraine, State Treasury Office of Ukraine for the implementation of socio-economic programmes and the implementation of priority projects for the development of the city of Chernivci. Vladimir Pilpenka to the Prime Minister of Ukraine on the illegal actions of the Pension Fund of Ukraine in calculating the amount of pension paid to residents of the Poltava region, in particular the Lubenski, Orgitsky, Semenovski, Velikobogachanski, Horolski region, and the gross violation of the constitutional rights of pensioners. Andrija Pavlovski to the Prime Minister of Ukraine on the urgent review and increase of student scholarships. Oleg Zarubinsky to the Minister of Energy and Coal Industry of Ukraine on the protection of the housing rights of gas and gas transport workers. Oleg Zarubinsky to the Ukrainian Minister of Health regarding the provision of medicines that are not produced in Ukraine. Oleg Kanovtsa to the Minister of Justice of Ukraine for the promotion of the project, the preparation of a draft decision of the Cabinet of Ministers of Ukraine on the amendment of the Cabinet of Ministers Order of 10 November 2010 on the approval of samples of active civil status records, descriptions and samples of forms of civil status certificates. Alexia Kayda to the Prime Minister of Ukraine on the allocation of funds for the capital repair of the public education and preschool schools in Ternopol and the complex thermomodernization of housing assets. Edward Gurwicz to the Ukrainian Minister of Health for the provision of Glyvek to the inhabitants of Odessa who are suffering from myeloleukosis. Ruslana Knazević to the head of the Ukrainian State Agency for Land Resources regarding the failure to respond to a parliamentary appeal. Igor Sharov to Prime Minister of Ukraine on the need to take complex measures to accelerate the construction of a large ring road around the city of Kiev, with a view to ensuring the full deployment of the road and road network from transit transport. Igora Sharov to the Prime Minister of Ukraine on the need to create a full mechanism of state support and to stimulate the development of IT technologies as one of the priorities of government policy in Ukraine. Olga Sikori to the Attorney General of Ukraine on the abuse by officials of the Kalusian City Council of the Ivano-Frankow region in the use of budgetary funds to pay off the debt for the use of thermal energy. Olga Sikori to the Prime Minister of Ukraine on the use of urgent measures aimed at financing and completing work on the disposal of hexachlorobenzene waste and the recycling of hazardous waste sites by the Oriana Galev Society on the solution of the problems of Dombrovsky's career in Kallus Ivano-Frankow region. Jury Wozniak to the Minister of Education and Science of Ukraine for the lifting of the order of the Education Department of the Ostrózki District Public Administration from January 14, 2013 No04 and for the protection of the interests of school librarians. Valery Lunchenko to the Cabinet of Ministers of Ukraine, Ministry of Social Policy of Ukraine, regarding the situation of recognition of cargo by humanitarian aid. Valery Lunchenko to the Attorney General of Ukraine for the verification of compliance with the requirements of valid legislation in the process of providing medical assistance to Maria Derkach at the Ternopil Hospital of Emergency Care No. 1 and Ternopil Municipal Hospital No.2. Groups of National Deputies (Apostola, Boyka, Woodland) to the Prime Minister of Ukraine on the preservation of the existing network of general education and preschool institutions in the Ternopil region. Vladimir Yavorowski to the Minister of Foreign Affairs of Ukraine on the verification of the presence of the President of Ukraine and members of the Cabinet of Ministers of Ukraine of the citizenship of other States, which has recently been a fairly common fact among senior citizens and poses a threat to Ukraine's national security. Vladimir Yavorowski to Prime Minister of Ukraine for the purpose of adventurous policy of power, which is to not pay proper compensation to the liquidation of the Chaes disaster and the war-torn children, war veterans and workers, victims of Nazi persecution and other socially vulnerable populations, even after they have won their cases in the courts of all the institutions, while the State has allocated funds to repair the Ukrainian President's residence, to build helicopters, to buy expensive cars and to finance non-existent projects and other high-level challenges. Jurya Crooka to the Prime Minister of Ukraine on the need to take urgent measures to prevent a technological disaster due to the technological state of the systems and technologies of central water supply, water supply, treatment and treatment of sewage in the city of Reni. Catherine Vasuk to the Minister of Agriculture and Food of Ukraine, Minister of Finance of Ukraine, for the allocation of funds for the installation of heat counters in the University of Volinsk. Caterina Vaschuk to the Ukrainian State Road Agency on the allocation of funds for the purchase of snow-cleaning equipment in the Gorokhovsko Autodroj branch of Volinsk Region. Sergei Gordienka to the Prime Minister of Ukraine, head of the Council of Ministers of the Autonomous Republic of Crimea, head of the Bahchisarai District State Administration of the Autonomous Republic of Crimea, the Skaliist Rural Head on the long-standing inadequate water supply of the village of Skaliste Bahchisarai in the Autonomous Republic of Crimea and the removal of local authority from the social problems of the settlement of the population. Vladimir Kurenny, head of the Ukrainian State Border Service, for the provision of information on crossings by Ukrainian citizens of the Ukrainian state border for the purpose of entering the Republic of Cyprus. Victoria Babic to the Prime Minister of Ukraine on the use of measures to preserve and improve the operation of the utility Electroautotrans of the Somali City Council and to ensure payment of the debt on the payroll of the listed enterprise. Victoria Babic to the Minister of Health of Ukraine regarding the provision of a municipal facility called Ochtyrska Central District Hospital with modern health care equipment for the implementation of the Ukrainian Law on Emergency Medical Care and the full provision of emergency medical care for residents of the city of Ohtirka. Olega Orotyuk to the Attorney General of Ukraine on the violation of the legal rights of the territorial communities of the Kremenack district of Ternopil district in the transfer of the district Kremenicka Hospital No. 2 (City of Pocay) Pochai's Sveto-Uspinski Lavry. Sergey Topalova to the Prime Minister of Ukraine on the non-admission of the restructuring (joining) of the scientific institute "Crime Astrophysic Observatory" to the Kiev National University of Taras Shevchenk. Valerija Chernjakov to the head of the Ukrainian Security Service, Minister of Foreign Affairs of Ukraine for the Prevention of Violations of Ukrainian Sovereignty. Valerija Chernjakov to the Attorney General of Ukraine on violations of labour legislation at the Mukatov City Communiqué. Oleg Medunica to the Attorney General of Ukraine on the use of appropriate measures to ensure legal, comprehensive, and objective judicial investigation into criminal conduct, according to Sergey Porachev, and on the prosecution of persons who committed criminal offences. Alexia Leluk to the Attorney General of Ukraine, Minister of Internal Affairs of Ukraine, regarding the non-use by the Ukrainian law enforcement authorities of measures to properly investigate the circumstances of the violent death of three girls in the Kobeljak district of Poltava. Michael Gerasimczuk to the Prime Minister of Ukraine on the non-admission of a pilot project to reform the health system in Winnitsky, Dnipropetrovsk, Donetsk and Kyiv. Victor Baloga to the Minister of Social Policy of Ukraine on improper treatment in the Ministry of Social Policy of Ukraine on the question of the right to social assistance for low-income families. Vladimir Ariev to the Attorney General of Ukraine on the inaction in the criminal investigation of the illegal seizure of the area of the garage cooperative "Science" and the seizure of the funds of members of the cooperative. Irina Seh and Andrija Mishchenka to the Minister of Ecology and Natural Resources of Ukraine, the Attorney General of Ukraine for the verification of the environmental disaster in Zaporozhye region, by giving the Branch Council special permission to use the national-state-wide nadrama for the development of Guliapilian iron quartzites, in which samples of lead present, which is a "satellite" of uranium 238, are 23 kilograms per tonne. Igor Pober to the Ukrainian Defence Minister for the possible disbandment of the 11th Ternopil Special Guard Artillery Brigade in the Ukrainian Armed Forces. Vladimir Medjanika to the Prime Minister of Ukraine, Vice Prime Minister of Ukraine Yuri Boyk, Head of the National Stock Exchange Company Naftogaz Ukraine for financing the construction of underwater pipelines to the villages of the Great Sudan, the Great Log and the Upper Krasnodonian region of Lugansk. Oleg Knavekik to the Attorney General of Ukraine, the Head of the Ukrainian Security Service, the Minister of Internal Affairs, the Minister of Revenue and Assembly of Ukraine on the verification of the abuse of duty, the dissipation of funds by local communities and individual citizens on a particularly large scale, the corruption by the head of the Vinnikov City Council of Lviv Sergija Uvarova in conspiring with the PP "Building Company "Quartal Plus", illegal land ownership, the resolution of the issue of the return to the public of stolen funds and land and the involvement of guilty persons in Ukraine's established liability legislation. Andrija Mishchenka to the Head of the Ukrainian Security Service for the verification of the actions and expressions of Zacarpathian province of Zoltan Varu as they fuel national hostility and violate the sovereignty of Ukraine. Vasila Petyevka to the Prime Minister of Ukraine on the variability of education in general educational institutions. The Gennady of Moskal to the Attorney General of Ukraine on the provision by the Attorney General of Ukraine of monthly, statistical and analytical material on the state and structure of criminal offences. Anatolia Vitova to the Attorney General of Ukraine on the possible misuse of funds and illegal actions by local authorities. Vasil Gladys to the Prime Minister of Ukraine on the use of urgent measures to eliminate the effects of natural phenomena in 2008 and 2010 in the region of Ivano-Frankiv. Alexander Mochkov to the Attorney General of Ukraine, Minister of Internal Affairs of Ukraine, on the need for a thorough review of the legality of the release of 60 employees from the Child Enterprise "Southern-Holding" ASTOV "Southern-Holding" and the use of urgent measures aimed at restoring their labour rights. Yurya Derevyanka to the Cabinet of Ministers of Ukraine, Ministry of Finance of Ukraine, for the significant underfunding of the District Budget of the region of Ivano-Frankov Region for 2013 for the payment of work and the payment of utilities and energy for the district’s budget. Jurya Derevjanka to the Cabinet of Ministers of Ukraine, Minister of Health of Ukraine, for the approval and implementation of the State Target Program for the Treatment of Rheumatoid Arthritis for 2014-2020 and its funding at the expense of the National Budget of Ukraine. Roman Vanzurjak to the Prime Minister of Ukraine, the Attorney-General of Ukraine, for the annulment of the decision of the inter-ministerial commission on international trade to set a special duty on imports of light cars as adopted by violations of Ukraine's legislation, poses a threat of significant harm to national producers and a substantial reduction in revenues to the State budget. Alexander Dubov to the Minister of Revenue and Congregations of Ukraine on the illegal activities of the tax authorities in the Primorski district of Odessa regarding the limited liability society Air Company Aerodjet and Air Link International. Valeria Pisarenko to the Prime Minister of Ukraine on the urgent financing of the completion of the construction of the Winning Metro Station in the Provincial District of Kharkiv and on the implementation of measures to ensure the health and life of the Harkowians, in connection with the halting of construction work in the city’s housing supply. Alexander Donya to the Prime Minister of Ukraine on the provision of information on the reasons for the refusal in 2010-2011 by the Ukrainian diplomatic institutions in the form of a visa for a citizen of Belarus. Groups of National Deputies (Pilpenka, Kulinich and others) A total of 6 deputies) to the Prime Minister of Ukraine for the restoration of pension payments for victims of the Chernobyl disaster and for the payment of payments for decisions taken by the courts. Sergey Moshak to the Attorney General of Ukraine on the violation of the requirements of land legislation by the City Council on the transfer of land to the Dukat Uzhgrad area. Valentina Queen to the Prime Minister of Ukraine on the non-admissibility of crisis phenomena in the real estate market and the need to suspend the operation of the Ukrainian Cabinet Order of 4 March 2013 No.231 "Some issues of assessment for tax purposes and the collection and payment of other compulsory payments made in accordance with legislation". Alexander Abudillon to the Attorney General of Ukraine, Minister of Internal Affairs of Ukraine, on the repression of the rights of the all-U.S. civil organization "The Ukrainian Disability Congress" by the authorities of the Ternopil region. Groups of National Deputies (Paulenka, Rosenka, Heratschenko) to the Attorney General of Ukraine on the verification of the legality and justification of the expenditure of the budget for the construction of the helipad site in the city. Groups of National Deputies (Klitzka, Kowalczuk and others) A total of 5 deputies) to the Prime Minister of Ukraine on preventing the destruction of the system of general educational institutions, cultural institutions, medicine and libraries. Vitalia Jaremi to the Attorney General of Ukraine on the need to investigate the situation of the liquidation of the New York Sugar Combine and the Open Shareholder Society of Sugar Nuts and to give legal assessment to the actions of the officials involved. Vasjunika's Igora to the Prime Minister of Ukraine for not allowing for an unjustified increase in the workload of teachers in higher education institutions. Groups of National Deputies (Kivalova, Kurenno and others) A total of 8 deputies) to the Cabinet of Ministers of Ukraine on the need for urgent measures to prevent an environmental disaster caused by the planning and technical failure of central water supply systems and technologies, the treatment and disposal of sewage in Odessa. Groups of National Deputies (Kivalova, Kurenno and others) A total of 10 deputies) to the Attorney-General of Ukraine on the violation of the requirements of articles 44, 70, 111 of the Ukrainian Water Code, article 68 of the Ukrainian Environmental Protection Act concerning the standards for the marginally permissible disposal of pollutants. Omelana Parubka to the Prime Minister of Ukraine, the Attorney General of Ukraine, on the urgent measures taken to halt the illegal activities undertaken by the Ministry of Economic Development and Trade of Ukraine and the Ministry of Health of Ukraine on the removal of medical products from the List of Products subject to mandatory certification in Ukraine on 1 January 2013. Vladimir Bidyovka to the Prime Minister of Ukraine on the non-payment of wages due to the employees of the Open Shareholders Association of the Hanjonkow Power Plant. And the last question, Vladimir Bidyovicki to the Attorney General of Ukraine, is about the illegal actions of the company HarvEast Holding regarding the interests of the village of Cermolik, Orlovsk, the Federation of the Telmanov Region of the Donetsk Region. Ladies and gentlemen, the time to announce the requests of the national deputies is over.
ParlaMint-UA_2013-05-17-m0.u65	I ask you to make an announcement so that the deputies come into the session room. I'm asking you to turn on the microphone of the deputy Yavorowski.
ParlaMint-UA_2013-05-17-m0.u66	Vladimir Yavorowski, Kyiv, Trinity, Fatherland. Volodymyr Vasilovich, there is another parliamentary law in our Rules, which, by the way, we do not seem to have taken advantage of this call. It's the right of a national MP if he's not satisfied or he's got a very formal non-clear answer from the executive power, he's given the right, he's given three minutes to speak, he's based on his dissatisfaction, and so on. Well, I realize that we're not going to be able to make it on this today, but I very much ask you not to forget that right and leave it there for three minutes or six so that MPs can exercise their legal right.
ParlaMint-UA_2013-05-17-m0.u67	I agree with you, let's take the next time for this. I'm asking for a faction of Communists, Gordine, please.
ParlaMint-UA_2013-05-17-m0.u68	Sergei Gordijenko, faction of the Communist Party, Poltavščina. Volodymyr Vasilovich, during the blockade of Parliament, there were a lot of parliamentary inquiries and they were holding back further enquiries. So when you look at the next week on the Conciliation Council, maybe there's a point to makead hoc, a simultaneous retreat: read out all the questions -- so that we can get into the normal way, and just in time, we'd be able to get to and read the queries, and get to the point, what the previous speaker was talking about. Thank you.
ParlaMint-UA_2013-05-17-m0.u69	How, then, would the deputies agree to offer? Come on, let's do it, too. The MPs agree. Let us now consider the laws of the first reading. A draft Decree (register No. 2669) on the assignment of the city of Gola Port of the region of Haerson to the category of cities of regional importance is being considered. Shall we discuss this? Everyone agrees. So, honourable colleagues, I'm voting to consider draft Decree 2669 without discussion. Please vote. Let's vote. [[11:36:37]] For 212 [[B in m in s a l in]] Ladies and gentlemen, perhaps I've made my point, haven't I? Okay. I'm betting on a vote so that we can draft Decree 2669 on the abolition of the city of Gola Port of the Hersonian Region without discussion, and we can make a decision. Members, please vote. [[11:37:22]] For 227 Against 3, held – 2, not voted – 144. Decision taken. I'm asking for your attention! I'm putting the Bill of Order (2669) on the assignment of the city of Gola Port of the region of Haerson to the category of cities of regional importance for adoption as a basis and as a whole. Please vote. [[11:38:03]] For-286 Against - 0, held - 0 did not vote - 90. Decision taken. The factions. The draft Order on the Rename of the Village of the Red Pahar of the Nizhin district of Chernigiv region is being considered. How will we view it? No discussion. Please vote to consider this motion for a ruling without discussion. Please vote. [[11:38:50]] For 212 There is a suggestion to consider the simplified procedure. Please vote. Please vote on the reduced procedure. [[11:39:10]] For 177 Decision taken. 177, vs. 46, held - 8, not voted - 142. Please. The rapporteur is the head of the Committee on State Building and Local Self-Government, Vasil Ivanovich Gladys. Please.
ParlaMint-UA_2013-05-17-m0.u70	Dear National Deputies! The Montenegrin District Council addressed the Supreme Council of Ukraine with an indication of the change of the village of the Red Pahar of the Victorian Rural Council of the Nižin district to the village of Step. From the history of the villages of the Victorian Council, it is known that the village of Step was founded in 1920-1923 on adjacent lands with the village of Viktorovka. According to the National Archives of Montenegro, the name Steph was used in documents dated 1924. In 1929, a collective farm called the Red Pahara was created in the village, and its name was taken as the official name of the village. However, official documents for residents of this inhabited area, such as birth certificates, passports for Ukrainian citizens, technical passports for the building, State acts for the land, were used by the old name of the village of Step. As a result, residents of the population have been deprived of the possibility of making civil and legal agreements, and have been suspended from privatizing land. As the name of the occupied item in the documents does not correspond to the official calculation of the administrative and territorial units of the area. The question of the name of the village is supported by the local community in the general congregations, and it is agreed, in accordance with the legislation, to be considered and approved by the rural, district, and district councils. But supported by Montenegro's district government. As a result of the consideration of the issue, the Committee agreed to recommend to the Supreme Council of Ukraine, in accordance with article 85, paragraph 29, of the Constitution of Ukraine, that the village of Red Pahar be renamed Steph. We ask the national MPs to support the stated draft of the decree and to accept it.
ParlaMint-UA_2013-05-17-m0.u71	Thank you. Have a seat. Are there people willing to discuss this issue? None. Is it? Please sign up. You raise your hands so timidly. I beg of you, Mikola Tomenko National Deputy.
ParlaMint-UA_2013-05-17-m0.u72	Vladimir Vasilovich, please give my word to my colleague, Vladimir Yavorowski, who thinks day and night about how to return historical names to Ukrainian villages and cities.
ParlaMint-UA_2013-05-17-m0.u73	Please, Yavorowski.
ParlaMint-UA_2013-05-17-m0.u74	Vladimir Yavorowski, Fatherland, Troyshina, Kiev. Respectful colleagues, of course, are primarily concerned about their national memory. Our history is very complex, difficult, sometimes on such turns our history has been broken, and we still don't know it fully. It's written by the Smoker, and it's written by hired, say, other countries historians and so forth. In this case, we have a very specific and interesting example. The village has a little amazing name – Step. Ukrainian Steppe, the Steppe of Montenegro Then it was renamed the Red Pahara. Where that perfume is now, the more red it is, the more the monks are no longer, the more nothing is actually there. Because I think it's very fair and it would be normal to return that name to people today, Step. And what's more, after the red smell, this step has actually remained an oracle or a whole, so I'd say. Because of this, "Fatherland" supports the restoration of historical justice and will do everything, at least today in the vote, to return the historic name to the inhabitants and not only to the inhabitants of this village, but in fact to all the Ukrainians. Thank you.
ParlaMint-UA_2013-05-17-m0.u75	Thank you. Freedom Union, National Deputy of Switzerland
ParlaMint-UA_2013-05-17-m0.u76	Igor Schwaika, the All-Ukrainian Freedom Union, Kharkishte. Please pass the word to Ruslan Marcinkov.
ParlaMint-UA_2013-05-17-m0.u77	They passed the word.
ParlaMint-UA_2013-05-17-m0.u78	Ruslan Marcinkov, All-Ukrainian Freedom Union, Chernigovishte. The crowd supports this decision. But I wanted to remind you that there is another village in our area with the same name in the Seminal region. And in Ukraine, there are five settlements. And in the district of Nižin, we have both Red Collodazi and Red Hatyr and many others. This is much more work to return Ukrainian Cossack names to our Ukrainian villages and to our Ukrainian cities. But I'd like to put another problem in perspective. This Sunday the public of Ukraine will celebrate the Day of Respect for Political Repression. And unfortunately, today the authorities are doing everything they can to ensure that such honor does not take place at the proper level. Only under Chernigov, 5,000 Ukrainians were shot at the so - called Red partisan Fedorov in the Halavina Forest. It's a great tragedy. And all over Ukraine, Demyan’s vines and many others. Therefore, the honourable authority, the honourable Party of Regions, enough today to deny the Holocaust, enough to deny today the Kruti, enough to deny those crimes of the red commanders who destroyed the Ukrainians who shot, and those famous triads who made decisions all over Ukraine. So I urge the Ukrainians on Sunday to honor the memory of all those who fell from the Red Communaries and from the Red Commanders, the invaders who came with only one, in order to destroy the Ukrainians today and to destroy Ukrainian statehood. The glory of Ukraine!
ParlaMint-UA_2013-05-17-m0.u79	Ladies and gentlemen, let's deal with you, we have Tuesday and Wednesday, when all questions are raised by MPs. When we consider a specific issue, the Rules should address a specific issue. Because you're asking me to turn off your microphones, and I don't want to do that. I'm asking you very much. Vitalia Calla, Rosenko, please.
ParlaMint-UA_2013-05-17-m0.u80	Paul Rosenco, Vitaly Caller's Faction. Please give the word to Ruslan Knazevitch.
ParlaMint-UA_2013-05-17-m0.u81	We give the word to Ruslan Knazevitch.
ParlaMint-UA_2013-05-17-m0.u82	I thank Paul Rosenck very much for his word. I promise I'll get him back on the first chance I get. Dear colleagues, in addition to all that is said, there is still a very important thing. It's about that there's a huge number of villages, and one of them here today, we're looking at where people were born, for example, in the village of Step, they have a birth certificate written in the village of Step, in the passports written "the village of Step," in the technical documentation on the village of Step, in the acts on the ground, according to the village of Step, and now there's the village of Red Pachar. And when they started to divide the land and the buildings. People are driving their own people out of the earth and out of their own buildings. That's the problem, why they're calling us, why they're doing the east of the village. Including, and considering the historic return of the name. But this is another way to manipulate Ukrainian property. Therefore, it is imperative that all the halls vote for such things. Because you don't have to consider names here. This is not just about names but about the fate of specific peasants. That's what thousands of people in Ukraine are talking about. It is our sacred duty to support this issue now and to make a decision in general. That if such facts occur, the authorities should not take away the land of mankind but should yield to them and even give them the right on earth, the building, in view of such circumstances. And unfortunately, in practice, we have a reverse. When people simply abuse the confusion of peasants with the characteristics of legislation, they are deprived of the last opportunity to obtain land and buildings, taking into account some spelling errors or historical errors in titles. Such brutal things will not be fixed with you. That's why we all vote yes.
ParlaMint-UA_2013-05-17-m0.u83	Dry, national MP, Party of Regions.
ParlaMint-UA_2013-05-17-m0.u84	Thank you. Jaroslav Suhi, Party of Regions, town of Zaporozhye May I have the floor to the National Deputy of Ukraine, Vitalia Zurawski?
ParlaMint-UA_2013-05-17-m0.u85	Please, Vitaly Zuravsky.
ParlaMint-UA_2013-05-17-m0.u86	Dear colleagues, the source and bearer of authority, we all know well, is the people. The people were determined, the community was determined, and the local authorities were also defined. And the profile committee was determined unanimously. We don't have any grounds for a hall, we don't have a parliamentary hall to support this decision and restore historical justice, and we call the village the Ukrainian word step. Thank you.
ParlaMint-UA_2013-05-17-m0.u87	Please, the Communist faction, Peter Simonenko.
ParlaMint-UA_2013-05-17-m0.u88	Simonenko, the Communist faction. Dear colleagues, these are your fiery speeches I would like you to implement, first of all, by not robbing the Ukrainian village. And when the Red Pahara was the village, it was all there was: and the tractor was, and the farm was, and the club was working, and the field office was obstetrics. As soon as you turn Ukraine into a wild steppe, there's nothing there. And that's why all of your conversations are, of course, an attempt to justify the policies you're having today. Politics is a policy of looting and destroying villages. You didn't put any combines and tractors in there. You don't put mineral fertilizers in there, you cut the cattle. Young people were expelled from the village, and the intelligence of the village left. And now you're talking about turning Ukraine into wild steppes. Here are the results of your policy. Therefore, the Company calls on you again today: do not change your name, but work to provide real assistance to the Ukrainian farmer, the Ukrainian pie owner, and support the development of the village today. Buses don't go.Oh, my God!
ParlaMint-UA_2013-05-17-m0.u89	May I have your attention, please? Let's move on to making a decision. I'm voting on the draft Order (Registration No. 2670) on the renaming of the village of Red Pachar of the Nizhin district of Chernigiv district as a whole. Please vote. [[11:50:58]] For 274 Against-2, held-0, didn't vote 101. Decision taken. Let's see the factions. Ladies and gentlemen, the draft Law (registration 1061) on amending certain laws of Ukraine concerning social guarantees for teaching, medical and pharmaceutical workers working in rural areas is being considered. How will we view it? [[B in m in s a l in]] Please vote. Short-term procedure. [[11:51:56]] For a hundred and Against 78, held – 15, not voting – 135. The decision is not taken. We're looking at the whole program. I give the floor to the National Deputy of Ukraine Simonenko Petra Mikolaiovich and then to the Committee.
ParlaMint-UA_2013-05-17-m0.u90	Dear colleagues! In introducing the draft law, I would like to inform you once again that this is a draft law from an anti-crisis package prepared by the Company faction to take real steps to assist Ukrainian citizens according to the categories that need this assistance today. And speaking of the anti-crisis program, first of all, I want to draw young people out of the village today. She was kicked out of the village more faithfully, young people were kicked out because there's no tractor brigade anymore, no farms, no library boards were killed, the clubs were closed, the field office and obstetrics today are destroyed, the infirmary. I was. virtually all over Ukraine, the land grew in the East and West. The melioration system, which was created by Communists in the west of Ukraine, has grown again today in March, people have been evicted from the village, and many of them have just gone abroad to earn money. And all of this tells us that today anti - crisis measures are really needed to provide State support for those who want to live and work in their village and to cultivate their home land, for today the land in the village feeds only the one that is now on the road today, and if it is deeper than the road, it has grown long - standing weeds. According to the fact that there are no trained specialists today, we have virtually monocultures killing the land of Ukraine and we see that the economic interests of individual businesses become such that they already pose a national threat to Ukraine from the point of view of food security, and in general the prospects for our village. Hence, by coming out of problems that are primarily related to the destruction of the village. And by the way, in years of independence, it's in power that was just formed by nationalists, we have over 5,000 villages that have disappeared from the map of Ukraine, they've just been destroyed, people have died out, houses have been broken down, and that's what we have in the village today. So when we talk today about the need to use one or the other, first of all, we draw attention to the need for state support for specialists, and specialists need to return to the village. The need for adoption of the bill is dictated, firstly, by a low level of education and health care in rural areas, secondly, by a catastrophicly low level of social protection for health and education workers in rural areas. And in studying the situation, given what I've discussed with my colleagues before this project, I'm ready for second reading to prepare proposals and make additional proposals for cultural workers, because this is about education, medicine, and it's about culture. In view of these negative trends, young people avoid employment in rural areas. The lack of qualified specialists has led to a decline in compulsory education and health care in rural areas, which has stimulated the steady flow of young people into cities. And I'm informing you, dear colleagues, that the faction of the Company and the previous call have made further changes to the law so that the filling of classes in rural areas is not 5 students, but 3 students. So we just have to save the state's support for the same pedagogical groups, Social protection should be seen as a policy of investing in human capital. Without additional social guarantees for medical and pedagogical workers, it is impossible to overcome negative trends in rural medicine and education. And that's understandable today. Meanwhile, the level of pay paid by public health and education workers remains the lowest in the field. People don't pay the same people, and they don't actually pay them today. And considering that they do not get anything out of their pies, except that a bag of oats or hangings at the end of the year is producing nothing more, that is to say that the State should first help people. Today’s level of social protection undermines the prestige and authority of these professions in society without meeting the basic needs of teachers and doctors. This calls for the introduction of additional social guarantees for education and health workers in rural areas. Expansion of socio-economic educational, medical and pharmaceutical workers working in rural areas will help reduce the shortage of rural education and medicine, increase the level of health and education services. The bill that we are proposing, Ukraine, provides for the expansion of social guarantees for medical and pedagogical workers working in state and municipal rural institutions. This will improve their socio-economic status and increase the level of education and health care provided by the Ukrainian village. The project envisages making appropriate changes to Ukraine’s laws, primarily the basics of Ukraine’s health and education legislation, including the introduction of such additional social guarantees for public and municipal education and health institutions in rural areas. Once again, I ask you to pay attention, fellow Communists, to what we are offering. We offer to address the issue of housing benefits for teachers and health workers on the basis of obtaining a service home, a house or an apartment, the acquisition of ownership of a work life allowance given to an employee, if the continuous work in a state institution within one residential facility is not less than 15 years or the receipt of an interest-free long-term loan for 25-30 years for the acquisition or construction of an individual dwelling. I want to remind you again, we have this experience with you, because when there were colosophies and rados, there were dozens of houses built every year for young specialists to come and work. So state policy was, we have this experience. Money was spent on building these houses, and young experts immediately received it. So as we're talking about the state of things today, what we're talking about is giving interest-free long-term loans. I am convinced that this is what we have the right to do and to enable people to get State support. Next. To give teachers and health workers annual, I pay attention, due to the low level of wages and income in the countryside, annual support for one job salary, salary rates, as well as an annual salary of one job salary, wage rates for conscientious labour, a model service assignment, and a monthly allowance of 50 per cent of the salary during the first seven years of working for the purpose of encouraging young people to work in rural areas. I'm drawing attention once again, my esteemed colleagues, and someone is itching to say that in Soviet times something has been done, but here there are those who were also the leaders of the Colgs, the Radgos, did you not give the intelligence of the rural right practically at the cost of buying all the produce that is being grown in the village and supporting the peasants? Didn’t the farmer’s doctor and teacher benefit from not paying for electricity? And all the villagers paid one penny for electricity. Didn't the country doctor and the same teacher have a right, and they were free to bring gas to the house? All of this was because there was firm authority, there was firm politics, and politics was concrete, not more talkative! That's why I'm paying attention, folks, to the fact that we have this experience, we need to implement it in order to help our people. Among the proposals we make, the communists, is the granting of social bonuses in the form of a free loan for private car transport and free subscription of domestic professional journals. Today, a teacher or a doctor in a village cannot obtain a subscription from his income, that is, a subscription to a professional magazine. Methodological tools do not come to school today, and there is no guarantee. We have a general degradation, and this degradation needs to be stopped. That's why we Communists, and we're offering, this is small money, and we need to give it today, in order to make the same subscription and to buy a car when there's no real quick traffic today. The ambulances, and when can we go with you to buy this car to get medical help, wouldn't that be a state policy? And the last. We believe that the lifting of some of the restrictions on social protection of health and pedagogical workers of state institutions in rural areas provided for in article 57 of the Education Act and article 77 of the Ukrainian Law on Health Care is the basis of Ukrainian legislation. So all of our proposals are in the draft law. I hope there are responsible politicians and national deputies here.
ParlaMint-UA_2013-05-17-m0.u91	Thank you. Any questions? We'll give it to you. I beg you, we have three minutes to ask. Sign up. I'm asking you, People's Deputy Kaplan, a question.
ParlaMint-UA_2013-05-17-m0.u92	Sergey Kaplin, Vitaly Klitschka Faction, Poltavian District, 144 constituency. I'd like to--Peter Mikolaiovich, what do they call you now? Wexelle? - to ask you a question like this. [[B in m in s a l in]] How can you write such fine laws, read such correct words as your pianists wrote to you, and, at the same time, vote second in favour of the appointment of the Prime Minister of Ukraine, a man who probably did the most to destroy the village in order to destroy rural agriculture in order to humiliate all ordinary people of all Ukraine in every area, in every village. Please tell me how it is. How long are the communists going to be doing these double standards? Or maybe you'll get rid of this populism and open your face and tell them that you have to go to one place of trouble for ordinary people and peasants, and you're writing laws to piranhas in the Supreme Council and then write your own.
ParlaMint-UA_2013-05-17-m0.u93	Answer me.
ParlaMint-UA_2013-05-17-m0.u94	Dear colleagues! I'm not offended by this person, he's just, let's say, doing certain tasks and forgetting one thing. And I just want to say, honestly, I look into people's eyes and work, and in previous years, we've done everything we can to make the village grow. And I would like to remind you, Your Honor, that all that was done in the village was built by implementing the Communist program. You haven't built anything in 20 years! You destroy the village, you destroy the village, you conquer, you drive people out! And today you ask that question. You can't do anything! So I have nothing to answer. I am responsible for practice, history, and reality. The village was under way. I want to remind you. There were 12.5 thousand colos and rascons! There were 24 million head of cattle! Where did you see him? Where you looked at all the things that were connected, there were at least 37 tractors in each village, 40 cars, and 20 vans! Where did you get all this?Oh, my God! The Communists have left you, let's say, manage, use! And you don't. You can't understand what you're talking about!
ParlaMint-UA_2013-05-17-m0.u95	Deputies! We don't have a rally. We are discussing a specific issue. One last question. Freedom Union, Pharion.
ParlaMint-UA_2013-05-17-m0.u96	The questions to Capitalist Communist Patty Wexelle and Offshore are passed on to Igor the Merchant.
ParlaMint-UA_2013-05-17-m0.u97	Please, Miroshnichenko.
ParlaMint-UA_2013-05-17-m0.u98	Igor Miroshnichenko, the All-Ukrainian Freedom Union. Offshore because there's a Gama television company that belongs to his sons and is registered in Cyprus. But I wanted to talk about the cynicism of Communists, which is out of bounds. He tells us how bad the government is and who voted for it! He talks about Ukrainian peasants. We remember the Communists taking care of Ukrainian peasants in 1932-1933, taking away their last grain and shooting them for six pieces! You destroyed Ukrainian peasantry by driving them to a conglomerate where they paid money for what they were making! This is your concern for the Ukrainian village! Six million Ukrainian victims during the Holodomor 1932-1933 years that you don't want to honor. That's why I don't have any questions for you.
ParlaMint-UA_2013-05-17-m0.u99	Peter Mikolaiovich, you have a minute. Time's up.
ParlaMint-UA_2013-05-17-m0.u100	Of course, there is only one thing they do not want to discuss in terms of the content of the draft law and really help, and they do talk. That is, it's called a political blink. I suggested specific measures. And those who speak now are engaged in "political shock." As to what has happened in our history. You know, I can't find the answer. 20 years of independence, nationalists in power, where did 7 million citizens of Ukraine go? Where are they going? There were 52 million Ukrainians in the communist population, now 45 million. And out of every Ukrainian family in western Ukraine, in western areas, every family went abroad. They don't want to live in Ukraine. Therefore, there is no need to engage in political speculation. I proposed a specific bill to help the peasants. And please, all those who are aware of the processes and problems that are taking place in the country to support this bill. Thank you.
ParlaMint-UA_2013-05-17-m0.u101	Thank you, sit down. The report is the first deputy head of the Committee on Social Policy and Work, Suhi Jaroslav Mihajlovich. Sign up, you'll talk, you'll say everything. Please.
ParlaMint-UA_2013-05-17-m0.u102	Dear colleagues, the essence of Bill 1061, one of the authors, Peter Mikolaiovich Simonenko, informed you. You have materials on your hands. I won't repeat myself. I'll talk about the Committee's conclusions on social policy and work. The Committee supports the need to increase the social status and material security of public and municipal education and health institutions in rural areas. At the same time, however, he believes it is necessary and is obliged to make the following comments to the bill. First. The draft bill contains a lack of norm-technics. This is about the inadequacy of the numbering of parts and paragraphs of article 57 of the Education Act, to which changes and additions are made. Yes, the project proposes that the first part of article 57 be redrafted and that the comparative table of changes be made to part four of this article, but that is not a big deal. This can be further developed, or the law can be passed on in general. The other one. The bill duplicates some of the existing rules of existing basic laws. For example, there is already provision for teachers working in rural areas and villages of urban type and pensioners, including free use of heating and lighting housing within established standards, as well as the right of such workers to obtain land free of charge. And that's for the second reading when we adopt the law on the basis that we could fix or rework. Third. With regard to the provision of office accommodation. Dear colleagues, I would like to remind all of you, especially the Mayors, that this issue is regulated by the Housing Code of the Ukrainian Soviet Socialist Republic and the well-known Order No. 37 of the Cabinet of Ministers of Ukraine, according to which doctors, professionals with basic higher medical education, regardless of their place of residence, are entitled to such a service home. So the point is that Bill 1061 narrows down the right to housing because it's only about people living in rural areas. And the last. Well, it does. This is the Ministry of Finance, I think the author would agree, to carefully develop the position of the project on mechanisms and sources of interest-free loans to medical and pedagogical workers. And finally, the most important thing. The lack of financial and economic justification is no longer the first bill of social affairs to be reported here from this rostrum makes it impossible to adopt such bills. Once again, I am addressing all my fellow members of the national MPs. According to the Law on the Rules, according to the Code of Budget, such a bill should be regarded as rejected without entering the session room. According to the Ukrainian Ministry of Finance, 8 billion dollars per year will be required from local budgets to pay 50 percent of the official salary per year and 12 billion dollars for housing that work in urban villages. I won't be speaking in this bill, so let me just say one minute. Honorable colleagues are national MPs who introduce social legislation. Remember, let's see, social legislation should be like a compromise between the needs of society and the financial and material possibilities. Otherwise it'll be a waste of time. And the last. We probably don't need new drafts to strengthen social protection, but we need to strengthen the supervisory functions of the Supreme Council of Ukraine, including the professional committees: sociopoliticals, health care, education for the implementation of those bills that are in force today, but unfortunately they are not being implemented. The committee proposes that this bill be sent for further work.
ParlaMint-UA_2013-05-17-m0.u103	Any questions? Yes. Three minutes on the question, please sign up. It's the Strike Party, the Smoking People's Deputy.
ParlaMint-UA_2013-05-17-m0.u104	Please pass the word to Paul Rosenck.
ParlaMint-UA_2013-05-17-m0.u105	They handed Rosenka over.
ParlaMint-UA_2013-05-17-m0.u106	Paul Rosenco, Vitaly Caller's Faction. Well, obviously, I think that you, Mr. Jaroslave, don't have any objection to the fact that pedagogical, medical, pharmaceutical workers not only in rural areas, but also in Ukraine as a whole, are actually at the level of survival, actually beyond poverty. But the problem of this bill, which is given to these categories of persons, is the category of aid. And this raises a big question. In our opinion, work is an adequate salary. Is it not a situation that we are about to vote in favour of this bill, the benefits, the benefits, the benefits, and the government's decisions, as the Chernobyls are doing, after the war, just the benefits for these categories of workers will be stopped by their decision?
ParlaMint-UA_2013-05-17-m0.u107	Thank you. Paul Valeriyovich, you asked questions. Those Ukrainian national deputies who listened attentively to this question realize that this is the essence of today’s major disaster in Ukraine. Since 2004, we have seen a steady increase in the share of social assistance in the population’s monetary income and a decline in the share of wages. Colleagues, which civil society we're going to talk about here. Paul Valeriyovich correctly noted that man is becoming increasingly dependent on the goodwill of the state: I want to, I want to, I want to, I won't, I'll give it away, and I'll give it back. It's not social policy, it's holes. And in order to either raise the status of a health worker, I have been here twice since 2003 to report on the Law on National Compulsory Social Health Insurance. The whole world's going that way. First of all, it'll be free for people who don't have money. And secondly, this will create the possibility of getting insurance premiums for doctors, as worldwide. Thank you for asking.
ParlaMint-UA_2013-05-17-m0.u108	Last question, National Deputy Mishchenko, please.
ParlaMint-UA_2013-05-17-m0.u109	Thank you. Sergei Mishchenko, 98th District, Kyivshina. Mr. Jaroslav, you have just mentioned in your report that the benefits proposed by this bill are intended only for a narrow category of education, medicine, pharmaceutical workers -- these are for rural workers. You know, there are other bills, including my 1169, which the same benefits offer to apply to all these categories of citizens, regardless of where they live. Well, I have a question, Mr. Jaroslav. In March of the fifth month, your committee considered both my bill and this bill and several other bills of opposition. Why does the Communist Party today stand for this bill, and other opposition bills do not stand? This reminds me of a pension reform.
ParlaMint-UA_2013-05-17-m0.u110	Let me finish.
ParlaMint-UA_2013-05-17-m0.u111	This reminds me of the first question we discussed about abolishing pension reform, the first bill of Communists, and then our two opposition in a month. Why is this happening? Why such injustice?
ParlaMint-UA_2013-05-17-m0.u112	Dear Sergey Grigorovich, I ask you very convincingly, you have asked the question at no end of the line. I came into the session room, took the agenda into my hands, and I'm coming out of the report committee. The attitude I have. And why are the police here when there was noise on the street? You didn't ask for an address. And in fact, your question, I remember your Bill 1169, if I'm not mistaken, its number, it's wide, it's inclusive, but it needs a government budget twice as much money. And in general today, I'm addressing the opposition MPs, so please don't be offended, I saw a bill on the committee that I voted for, the Peacekeeping Igor, the social policy, he doesn't need any extra money, he's promoting the allocation of funds. Today, more than 700 billion dollars are needed from the opposition. What are you kidding? Clearly, such a bill could never be adopted. Please write your reasons. You need 20 billion here, write it from where. You need 46 billion dollars for your bill. Write it from where. And then we get a beautiful balanced bill. And I thank you for your attention.
ParlaMint-UA_2013-05-17-m0.u113	Thank you, thank you. Have a seat. I'm asking the factions to sign up for the performance. Fedoruk, Fatherland faction, National Deputy, please.
ParlaMint-UA_2013-05-17-m0.u114	Fedoruk, Fatherland faction, Chernivci. Please pass the word to Kirilenko Ivan Grigorovich.
ParlaMint-UA_2013-05-17-m0.u115	Please, Ivan Grigorovich Kirilenko.
ParlaMint-UA_2013-05-17-m0.u116	Kirilenko, Fatherland faction, Dniproperty. Dear Mr. Head! Dear colleagues! A small replica to a reporter who had just left the rostrum. Mr. Jaroslav, I've always respected your opinion, your correct figures that you've announced here. But where did you get tens of billions of dollars for this bill? They treated the whole hall, scared the whole community. It's going to reduce that figure by two ways, and that's how much it takes to support the rural's vibrant social infrastructure at least in some way. Don't terrorize people, be even more correct, Mr. Jaroslav, for such tens of billions of dollars is not required by this law. That's the first one. The other one. Our political power has repeatedly taken similar initiatives, so we support this law. What are "similar initiatives"? This is where our leader was speaking: we're about to cancel, starting with that law called "medical reform," which has led to the total closure of outpatients, FAPs, other medical institutions in four areas. On the other hand, schools, kindergartens, and so forth are closed. They closed the medical facility, closed the schools, and two years later the village died. What about the strategic field of agriculture without a village? I want to remind you of history: one of the first bills and laws that was introduced to this Chamber in the years of the independent Ukraine, a fundamental law that defined long in advance social policy in the country, was the law on the priority of rural social development in the economy of Ukraine. More than 20 years ago, this law was passed when the social sphere in the country was somewhat different, to say the least. I want to remind you that the first meeting of the Supreme Council, a little more than ten committees, was then called commissions, two of them were dedicated to the village: one committee was involved in economics, and the other committee was involved in social development in the village. Since then, the village's social development priority law has been cutting to the ground. So that's what social infrastructure looks like. The surge of activity, the surge of support was in 2008-2009, when the government of Yulia Timoshenko aimed to support the village eight times as much as the government was directing today. Let's think about it, starting with the development of cooperative rural movement, which is also an integral element of socio-economic development in the village. I want to say things like that. Dear colleagues, of course, the social development of the village is also roads, it's housing, it's schools, outpatients, hospitals, it's objects of culture, but it's not just basic. The main thing is man. And, of course, without a doctor, without a teacher, without a cultural worker, social development is impossible. Such a consistent policy, our leader, Yulia Timoshenko, our political power. We will definitely uphold this law. Thank you.
ParlaMint-UA_2013-05-17-m0.u117	Freedom Union, national deputy of Orotyuk.
ParlaMint-UA_2013-05-17-m0.u118	Yuri Orotyuk, All-Ukrainian Freedom Union, Cherkaščina. Please pass the word to Ruslan Zelik.
ParlaMint-UA_2013-05-17-m0.u119	Pass it on, please.
ParlaMint-UA_2013-05-17-m0.u120	Respectable Society! Ruslan Zelik, the All-Ukrainian Freedom Union. You know, the Communists are very soft, but the Ukrainian society, the Ukrainian nation and the Ukrainian people, especially in the countryside, are very much asleep, because they speak very well, but in principle they have always stood on the principles of those who destroyed the Ukrainian nation, who have always supported power. And now the Ukrainian nation is being destroyed by the Party of Regions. Dear Society, you know, we are the All-Ukrainian Union of Freedom is based on the principle that social and national justice should be present. And we're going to vote for this bill because, in fact, the village is dying, really, those people, young specialists who are working in the country right now, need social guarantees, guarantees from the state, and housing, and even these statements of newspapers or specialized literature, are very much needed. But I want to say one more thing, you know, for so evil it all sounds from Simone's side, so unlikely that it's just the heart of the Ukrainian nation. Society, we will vote in favour of this bill. Thank you for your attention.
ParlaMint-UA_2013-05-17-m0.u121	It's the Strike Party, the People's Deputy of Kuren.
ParlaMint-UA_2013-05-17-m0.u122	Vladimir Kurenay. Please pass the word to Taras Kutov.
ParlaMint-UA_2013-05-17-m0.u123	Please, Taras Kutov.
ParlaMint-UA_2013-05-17-m0.u124	Taras Kutov, Poltavščina. Dear colleagues, we all know where the village has always been and who were the key authorities in this village. And, of course, the main people among them were doctors. What I'm worried about in this bill, and in detail, I'll probably say it, but it looks like whatever number we're multiplying by zero, it's going to be zero. Today, unfortunately, we need to think about the fundamental things that will enable people to feel guarantees in the countryside. Today, it seems to me that the benefits offered by this bill are really just exasperating a lot of people who are being released today, who are being completely liberated from the place that remains to work, and who are being released, including for the very reason that this facility is closing down. We're being offered extra half wages today, and today we're being offered some extra benefits that really won't give us a boost to the development of the industry and people's comfort. What is the subject today? I'm just going to read a few things that actually, I think, should be confusing. Well, first of all. It is now proposed that long - term loans be granted for private transportation to doctors in the countryside. I understand it's a bicycle or a moped, at best. Because if there's anything else, we're probably exasperating these doctors. It's about giving people long-term housing loans. People today have absolutely no confidence in how long their village will live. I don't want to repeat how many hundreds of villages have died today. What do we offer people today: to live in the wilderness, in a village that can die out quickly? So today I would not want to politicize this question, but today we were told and reminded by the Communists that they were giving grain at their own expense. So what I'm saying is, they didn't give wages, they gave jobs, they gave grains for work. And this grain has been given to people in such a range that all of this has led to these villages being completely raised, even in times of peace, simply by rebellion against the way they are oppressed. I'm not talking about Holodomor anymore in Ukraine and all these wonderful things. I want to say the next thing. We will, of course, support this bill. But for all voters, for all Ukrainian citizens, I want to say that he will have the same fate as he will have for the children of war as for the Afghans, as well as for the Chernobylites, because against this bill, if he passes and becomes the law, they will put a bar, within budget spending that will not be. That's why we're voting. But know that the key problem is, of course, government policy and the perspective of the state as a whole. Thank you.
ParlaMint-UA_2013-05-17-m0.u125	Party of regions, National Deputy Semenyuk.
ParlaMint-UA_2013-05-17-m0.u126	Semijuk Artem Alexiyovich, 204 constituency, faction of regions. In general, it should be borne in mind that the implementation of the proposed educational and health - care workers working in rural areas will require substantial budgetary expenditure from the State. In addition, before the project is proposed, the relevant expert opinion of the Cabinet of Ministers of Ukraine should be obtained. Which, according to the requirements of part two of article 27 of the Ukrainian Budget Code, should contain information on the completeness and reliability of the data presented in the financial and economic justification. Influence of the bill on budgetary indicators, with the mandatory cost of removing such influences, the financial security capacity within the relevant budget period, in accordance with the law governing budgetary relations. That's a suggestion for his consideration. The faction of the regions proposes to send a bill for further work. Thank you for your attention.
ParlaMint-UA_2013-05-17-m0.u127	The faction of the Ukrainian Company, the Battle of the People's Deputy.
ParlaMint-UA_2013-05-17-m0.u128	Please pass the word to Cibenko Petra Stepanovich.
ParlaMint-UA_2013-05-17-m0.u129	Cibenko Peter Stepanovich, please.
ParlaMint-UA_2013-05-17-m0.u130	Thank you. Thank you. Communist faction, Peter Cibenko. Dear colleagues! Dear citizens of Ukraine! Turning to my colleagues who are in the Hall of Meetings of the Supreme Council, I would very much ask those who have not been to the village for a long time to be there. Not in their fazende or possessions, but to meet with people who have worked 30, 40, 50 years in villages where their hands are cut off from work, and to listen to their opinion of the state of the village today. It's turned into a ghetto. So I want to do something today to continue this picture that Peter Mikolaiovich started drawing about today's situation in the country. Well, first of all, I'd like to repeat the figure that's echoed here. Over 5,000 villages were destroyed in 20 post - Soviet years. Think about it, even the fascists of such a number of villages have not destroyed the foundation. That's the first one. The other one. Going to the village today is creepy. My colleagues, believe me, it's really creepy. Club's closed, FAP's closed, school's gone, every third house's got a cross on the cross. So the point is that today the village really needs to be saved from the invasion that happened to it. And I want to remind you of that. We do not forget that a fellow countryman who is a cradle of Ukraine needs to be restored. And everyone sitting in this room probably knows the idea that there's no school -- there's no village. So today we have to save, restore the village. And one of the ways to save the village is to rebuild social infrastructure, rebuild cultural centers in the countryside. And you can do this mainly because you can support those people who work in these centres, who are teaching, who are healing, who are testifying to the people who live in the countryside. Sadly, very few young people in the village today have remained largely senior citizens. And that's why I need to re-emphasize the village. And I'd like to take this opportunity to contact representatives of an extremely loud and active faction in the Supreme Council Hall. Dear colleagues, I'd like to bring to your attention that there's a doctor of the highest classification in the faction today, a psychiatrist. Who gets sick, please ask for help, a person who is tolerant, an expert. Please, ask for help, and it will help. I'm asking you to support the bill. Thank you.
ParlaMint-UA_2013-05-17-m0.u131	Thank you. Are there any other speakers? You don't? For the closing statement, please, Peter Mikolaiovich. Well, yeah. I'm asking you. Listen to what I'm asking. Please.
ParlaMint-UA_2013-05-17-m0.u132	Ladies and gentlemen, I'd like to make a few briefs. First. Thank all those who took part in the discussion. Second, just to let you know that the bikes were never about cars. And the law says about cars, not bicycles. Secondly, I want to help the Kutov People's Deputy. I'm talking to you and I want to help you fulfill your pre-election promises, and you made promises in the village that you would supply free gas. What can you do to help you fulfill your promises? [[Applause]] And then, Your Honor, I'd like to refocus your attention on the following. And there are businessmen present. Note that the Ukrainian village ceased to be a supplier of raw materials to the processing industry in Ukraine. Next. There's no work. Wages are low. This is about children and health. This law is the law on the fate of children and the health of Ukrainian citizens living in the countryside. Ukraine’s legislation is not being implemented. Why, then, is Ukraine’s legislation that you are talking about not being implemented in terms of repetition of certain positions? Then let's do it. Let's control that housing is being built there, that jobs are being provided, that the state is funding the relevant categories of citizens, and we're going to be fine. But there is a strange situation. They have the opportunity to destroy them, and they only know how to destroy them. Once it's built, there's nothing anyone can do. So, ladies and gentlemen, I would like to point out once again that this bill is a bill that relates to the fate of the Ukrainian village. And the Ukrainian village is 30 percent of the gross domestic product. Well, how much are we going to talk about the Ukrainian village, and Ukrainian citizens are being fed beef from Argentina or Brazil? Well, how much will we talk about the Ukrainian village when the Ukrainian Hall is gone? How much will we talk about this? We need to really help solve the problem -- how to interest people to stay in the countryside and work in the countryside, especially the young. This is what we suggested, the communists, just a specific programme of action, from the point of view of the state's responsibility for training professionals. I don't say anymore, Your Honor, there are people here who know exactly what's going on in the village. If the village doesn't have an agronomist, who's gonna work tomorrow? When the zootechnologist doesn't go to work in the village, what will happen to the Ukrainian village tomorrow? So far, so to speak, until two or three monocultures, we will sow wheat, dreamers, raps. And then what? The feeding grounds are virtually out of reach of the village and there are no food crops to provide for the Ukrainian village. So what should we today not think about our future with you, not with any Europeans or anyone else? So the faction of the Company expects you to have a conscious and patriotic attitude toward Ukrainian citizens and Ukraine.
ParlaMint-UA_2013-05-17-m0.u133	Thank you. Vladimir Mikhailovich Litwin, please from the deputies. Lady, we'll give you a line. Come on, let's get them out of here, 'cause we don't take the law anymore. Please.
ParlaMint-UA_2013-05-17-m0.u134	Dear Vladimir Vasilovich, distinguished colleagues, I think the MPs who are elected to major districts, especially in rural areas, are well aware of the problems of the village and do not have to be promoted here. Because I remember there was one national MP, about a pound of 150 weight, he was coming out from behind this rostrum. He said, "What shall I tell you of the people's deputies, the village is dying." We all say that the village is dying, and at the same time we mention this village when the election campaign begins. I would ask you very much, Vladimir Vasilovich, to have the majority MPs have the right to express their point of view. We had a political upheaval in the situation in Parliament. It can't go on like this. And to pretend that the deputy major won't act, you can't. [[Applause]] And let's stop this disgraceful practice of putting an MP into a faction. He has someone to answer to. And now, essentially, the subject. Dear colleagues, let's start with another problem. Note that today it is necessary in the village to form a 400 - dollar rental area. This is one area. What if the tenant arranges several areas to do production, how much money does he need to pay, at the expense of who, the renter or the renter? You can't make it to the Supreme Council. That's why I'm here. The other one. The problem of the field roads. Today, those involved in agriculture are listed as having to pay for roads in the field. The decision has not been taken until now. And we'll talk about saving the village. It has to be taken into account, but at the expense of creating conditions for production. And the second. I am convinced that this decision must be made, even from a moral point of view. But you have to make a decision to put it on the payroll. Note that before the judge’s office, it was not possible to reach out to the lawyers. The salary is great – everyone wants to be judges today. I think there's going to be a payday -- all the problems will be solved. And one more moment is about health care. People who have written a plan for health reform know the theory well. In theory, it is absolutely right that where it will be better, a person will go there in order to maintain his health. But at first, everything was shut down, the ambulance was taken away, and they said, "20 minutes to get to the countryside." Please tell me, not the road, but the direction. There are no roads in Ukraine! If he arrives in two hours, man has already gone to another world. If she hasn't left yet, she'll come from medical emergency services, tarpaulins, she'll take them, she'll be gone. And we're fighting about who better to say against each other and in.
ParlaMint-UA_2013-05-17-m0.u135	Let me finish.
ParlaMint-UA_2013-05-17-m0.u136	On Saturday at the rally, we will demonstrate our position. But Ukraine will not develop unless we have in the Supreme Council an understanding that we are jointly responsible for making decisions. And when we're in power -- they're in state positions, they've lost power -- they've mentioned the people. I suggest and please, let's support the first reading. Although I understand there are no votes. Thank you.
ParlaMint-UA_2013-05-17-m0.u137	Deputies! Honourable MPs, as to what Vladimir Mikhailovich said, for usurping the majority factions. Really, yes. But the Sixth Call Rules were adopted by him. Well, let's make some suggestions and make some changes to the Rules, because there are no majors here, Volodymyr Mikhailovich. Let's make an offer. Turn on Vladimir Mikhailovich's microphone. Turn on the microphone!
ParlaMint-UA_2013-05-17-m0.u138	Why were there elections for a mixed system?
ParlaMint-UA_2013-05-17-m0.u139	Yes! So let's bring it in, and I will.
ParlaMint-UA_2013-05-17-m0.u140	Why? And they screamed, Vladimir Vasilovich, "Don't make a decision!" They voted in favour of these decisions!
ParlaMint-UA_2013-05-17-m0.u141	I heard I'm not deaf! I can hear you! So let's do this. I'll do it. There was no "Freedom" representative speaking on this issue. I'll give my word to the representative of Liberty, I'll give you a reply, and we'll make a decision. The Freedom Union, please. A peaceful, national MP.
ParlaMint-UA_2013-05-17-m0.u142	Alexander Mirny, the All-Ukrainian Freedom Union, Ukraine. Peter Mikolaiovich, I ask you a simple question: Please tell me if this is not the government you voted for (you voted for!) Now he's not paying off the niggers, the Afghans, the children of war? Did you not put your hand to this? First question. The second question is, what about this law that we are about to vote for? That's exactly how it makes you embarrassed to turn around and say, "We don't have anything to do with it!" But I want to remind you that you're "at what." 22 years of Communist rule in Ukraine During this time, the population in Ukraine declined by 7 million, during which time the entire industry was looted, during which time the village was destroyed, during which time the acceptance took place, during which time you did nothing to stop this vacchanal. And only after Freedom came to Parliament did real action start. And I want to remind you that we're going to let you have a financial famine for nothing. Little more, I would like to remind you that when you talk about happy Soviet times, answer the question: When did passports appear in the countryside and when did you stop planting for ten pieces and when people were able to leave the village to learn? Please don't forget that and don't hide from it. I want to remind you about your vote on the bills, this is just a unique situation that you agree to pay people with bills. You agree that an ambulance will work for a bill and charge for a bill. You agree that we're not going to see any money at all, we're going to go to coupons, we're going to go to paper stacks, and that's fine. Because you, I remind you, are indeed the capitalist party of Ukraine led by Peter Mikolaiovich Wexel. Shame!
ParlaMint-UA_2013-05-17-m0.u143	I beg you, a minute, corner. I beg you, a minute, corner.
ParlaMint-UA_2013-05-17-m0.u144	Thank you. Well, I thank my fellow Communists for studying my pre-election program. I want to make it a little bit more clear, but I'm a major in 151 constituencies in two areas with more than 30 percent of Ukrainian gas. There's the reverse of this process, this district today is the first in the history of cancer in Ukraine, once the most successful, in fact. In the villages: The Shadow – more than a thousand people, where people have higher places in cities today, there is no water in wells, they are sick, there are very big problems. And so in my pre-election campaign, I was talking about people who suffer a lot from production, from gas production, having to have some kind of tax price on gas, at least the cost, and not the price that the government of Azarov is offering us today. That's the first one. The other one. You wanted to help me, I'm asking you to vote for the bill that I'm drafting today, and it's going to be a very big help to me, and to those voters who expect it from me and the Ukrainian Parliament today. Thank you.
ParlaMint-UA_2013-05-17-m0.u145	Thank you. One minute, Zuravsky. And we'll make decisions.
ParlaMint-UA_2013-05-17-m0.u146	Dear colleagues, I would urge all of you to proceed to the vote and move on to a very important law to enable us to consider it: the draft Law on the imposition of a moratorium on the abolition and reorganization of health institutions. This is the first time. Secondly, I would like to answer my countryman, Lithuania. There's no limit to anyone. Among the non-fractional are the active deputy Oleg Lazko. There's a question. He goes and he talks. There's no problem. You can do the same. If there are claims to the Rules, no one will prevent amendments to the Rules from being made and vote. I don't see any problem here. Thank you.
ParlaMint-UA_2013-05-17-m0.u147	People's deputies, may I have your attention? Let's vote, Vladimir Mikhailovich, I give you my word. I'm betting on the vote. Attention! I am voting on the draft Act (No. 1061) amending certain Ukrainian laws on social guarantees to teaching, medical and pharmaceutical workers working in rural areas for adoption. Please vote. [[12:45:39]] For 196 Against it, 1 / 1 We're holding on to 27. They didn't vote 134. The decision is not taken. The factions. Region Party 19, Fatherland 62, Block Key 32, Freedom 35, Company 31, Postfractional 17. Ladies and gentlemen, I offer. There is a proposal by the committee: To return the subject to the right of legislative initiative for further work. So I'm proposing a bill (registration number 1061) to amend some of Ukraine's laws on social guarantees to teaching, medical and pharmaceutical workers working in rural areas to get the subject back. Please vote. [[12:47:00]] For 298 Against 0, hold on. One, not a vote. 65. Decision taken. The factions. Vladimir Mikhailovich, one minute, please.
ParlaMint-UA_2013-05-17-m0.u148	Dear Vladimir Vasilovich! Dear colleagues! I appealed to the Head of the Supreme Council, and I do not need crutches in the person of the national deputy to give me an explanation. If necessary, I can give him an E.R., which is the Rules. This is the first time. That's different. Almost 30 national majority deputies are non-fractional. They should have the right to speak. Relevant draft amendments to the Rules have been introduced. I'll see how you vote. You're not going to get a cross, and you're not going to vote. Therefore, there is no need to shudder at matters that you do not solve at all.
ParlaMint-UA_2013-05-17-m0.u149	Thank you. Please. I'm going to give the floor to the Marjorie deputies, and I'm asking more actively to see your hands, and I will definitely do it. We move on to the draft Act amending the Law on State Social Assistance. [[B in m in s a l in]] Everything, everything, everything. I'll give it to you. Let us consider the matter very important. The draft Law (No. 2201) on the introduction of a moratorium on the liquidation and reorganization of health facilities is being considered. How will we view it? Please vote in favour of the summary procedure. [[12:49:04]] For 175 Decision taken. Against 64, held three, not voted 119. Reported by the author of the law, National Deputy of Ukraine Ljasko Oleg Valeriyovich. Then it's from the committee. Please.
ParlaMint-UA_2013-05-17-m0.u150	Dear Vladimir Vasilovich! Dear colleagues! Respectable Ukrainian citizens! The bill by the Ukrainian National Deputies John Kurovsky and Oleg Láška on the introduction of a moratorium on the liquidation and reorganization of health facilities is an extremely important issue. Each of you, especially those who meet with people, knows that people ask questions every day about the closure of health facilities. Today, public health facilities are being closed in Ukraine. As a result, millions of Ukrainian citizens, especially the elderly, especially those living in rural areas, are deprived of adequate medical care. Today, millions of Ukrainian people are looking at each of us who have nowhere to be treated, who have nowhere to buy a pill that can't reach the center when the hospital is closed in the village, and the center is 50 km away! And there's nothing to get to the center, there's no way to get there! Fast doesn't go there because there's nothing to charge it for. And a man who could live dies! Because they don't give her medical care in time! And that's why I'm addressing you. I want you to realize that millions of people are looking at you right now and living them or dying, depending on you, dear fellows! Do you decide whether these people, ordinary Ukrainians, will live or die? Thank you for your support.
ParlaMint-UA_2013-05-17-m0.u151	I'm asking the committee to express the opinion of the committee. Shipko, Ukrainian national deputy, will be speaking.
ParlaMint-UA_2013-05-17-m0.u152	Dear Volodymyr Vasilovich, distinguished national MPs, distinguished voters! The High Council Committee on Health at its meeting on April 3, this year, considered a bill introducing a moratorium on the liquidation and reorganization of health facilities (registration No. 2201). And I decided to support this bill in the first reading. But Lazko has already stopped at the basic positions of the bill. So I just want to draw your attention to the fact that changes in the network of health institutions, their integration and their reorganization, the change in the size of the population and the size of the beds in the regions are happening all the time. This has to do with changes in population numbers and disease patterns. Our population, like the population of all countries in Europe, is getting older and in the structure of pathology is becoming less acute and more chronic. This leads to a change in the structure of the medical needs of citizens and requires that the health care facilities available in each region be brought into line with these needs. At the same time, we are faced with a large number of complaints from citizens, public organizations, and members of the various levels associated with these changes. The committee is convinced that the adoption by local authorities of unreasonable and unwarranted decisions on the closure of health facilities is contrary to the requirements of the Constitution, 49 articles of the Constitution of our State. I would also like to point out that the economic reform programme initiated by the President of Ukraine also does not provide for decisions on the closure of such institutions. Reform in this area should in no way make it worse for citizens’ rights to health and health care guaranteed by the Constitution of Ukraine. The Health Committee at its meeting decided to recommend to the Supreme Council of Ukraine the adoption of the bill proposed by the national deputies, Oleg Lášk and Ivan Kurovsky, and in the first reading.
ParlaMint-UA_2013-05-17-m0.u153	Let me finish.
ParlaMint-UA_2013-05-17-m0.u154	In the first reading and on the basis of it. Thank you for your attention.
ParlaMint-UA_2013-05-17-m0.u155	Are there speakers? Please sign up. Factions please sign up. I beg you, the Freedom Union, the Martinks.
ParlaMint-UA_2013-05-17-m0.u156	Please pass it on to Oleg Helvey.
ParlaMint-UA_2013-05-17-m0.u157	Pass it on, please.
ParlaMint-UA_2013-05-17-m0.u158	Oleg Heleway, the All-Ukrainian Freedom Union. As national deputies, we are visited by dozens of appeals about the closure of hospitals or of their wards in various parts of Ukraine. They suffer from the horrors of the so - called medical reform. This is a direct violation of article 49 of the Constitution, which clearly states that the existing network of public and municipal health institutions cannot be reduced. There are two aspects. The first is the fate of health workers who are simply thrown out on the street for hours and hours to get to a new job tens of miles away. And the second aspect is the fate of Ukrainians who, in the same way, have to travel 50-80 kilometers to get to a medical facility. In view of today’s need for help from loved ones, how to travel 50 miles [50 km] to one side and then to the other. It is not that difficult, but it is almost impossible to take into account today’s working conditions. It is not surprising, therefore, that in various regions of Ukraine social organizations are being set up to combat so - called improvements in medical reform. And almost every day, people go out on the streets to defend their constitutional rights for access to affordable medical care. The All-Ukrainian "Freedom" union advocates the bill and requires the Party of Regions to stop or try all the benefits of your improvements. Instead of being treated abroad or in elite Feofania. Glory to Ukraine!
ParlaMint-UA_2013-05-17-m0.u159	Party of regions, National Deputy Atroshenko, please.
ParlaMint-UA_2013-05-17-m0.u160	Dear Volodymira Vasilovich, a respected colleague, except that it is certainly necessary to support the Láška and Kurovsky bill. I wanted to encourage everyone to review the government's policy of reforming the medical, medical sector in general. And where the human issue and the quality of the provision of medical services are concerned, there should be no optimism. I wanted to add to the fact that there is also a need to consider fiscal policy, to move away from formal wage calculations and so forth. This is particularly true in areas such as Chernigivska, where there is a very large area and a large number of facilities and a small population. Thank you.
ParlaMint-UA_2013-05-17-m0.u161	I'm asking you, the Ukraine Company, the Scrabychuk.
ParlaMint-UA_2013-05-17-m0.u162	I'd like to give the floor to my colleague, Irina Dmitryevna.
ParlaMint-UA_2013-05-17-m0.u163	Pass it on, please.
ParlaMint-UA_2013-05-17-m0.u164	First of all, I'd like to make that point. We have to think about the man. We need to think about prevention. What we don't have in reform today is not at stake. The preventive aspect is the main aspect that supports all the absolute direction of medicine. The second moment I want to pay attention to. The closure of medical facilities leads to violations of human constitutional rights today. Constitutional rights that violate adequate, necessary and useful medical assistance. Today's bill, proposed by Laszko, I believe it is appropriate. But the bill says "monitoring," what is monitoring? It's a temporary measure. And we need to understand clearly that this is a time-consuming concept. We are communists who say that we must end this shameful reform. And our bill 2661, which is proposed today and is on the committee, must be passed and is in line with all the standards for ending this reform today. Now, I'd like to. Hear me! I'd like to ask the honourable MPs of the Freedom Party not to apply the technique of inducted hysteria associated with misconduct.
ParlaMint-UA_2013-05-17-m0.u165	In Ukrainian they speak!
ParlaMint-UA_2013-05-17-m0.u166	A violation of a person’s behavior is a violation of a person’s criticism. As early as the 16th century, doctors were told when the ram was coming.
ParlaMint-UA_2013-05-17-m0.u167	It's Vitaly Call's Faction.
ParlaMint-UA_2013-05-17-m0.u168	Please pass the word to Kutov's terrace.
ParlaMint-UA_2013-05-17-m0.u169	Please, Taras Kutov, pass it on.
ParlaMint-UA_2013-05-17-m0.u170	Thank you. Dear colleagues, a few aspects of this matter would like to be touched. The first is to explain to everyone what this is about and why this bill is important. Because there's actually manipulation between two things. The first is the budgetary provision of health facilities, where you all know that there are formulas, there are norms, there are coefficients, which are then multiplied by the number of population in the population. The medical field that is now in villages, cities, is much larger than the number of people living in these villages. Thus, by using medical reform as a broad - scale tool to avoid paying for these costs, by properly storing funds and by concealing in fact the lack of funds for their health, local health - care councils decide to close down medical facilities. Three medical facilities in Poltava, maternity ward in Montenegro, in the region of Poltav – thousands of people suffer from it. The second question behind this. We all know that medical facilities have always been in the central part of the city in Soviet times and so on. Regrettably, this includes the issue of corruption and abuse in the areas where these medical facilities are located today. So we need to put an end to this process as a matter of urgency, to deal with the consequences of the medical reform that was, at first, like a pilot, and then to the whole of Ukraine, and only then to make some informed decisions. That's why the strike faction will support this bill and we think it's for all the smart-ass MPs to do the same. Thank you.
ParlaMint-UA_2013-05-17-m0.u171	Thank you, from the "Fatherland" faction, National Deputy Donez.
ParlaMint-UA_2013-05-17-m0.u172	Unfortunately, there is no civilized concept of health care in Ukraine today. And those pilot regions where the so-called reform is taking place, they're just suffering. We can't call it reform because it's exclusive. It destroys all the existing things that we have in the country, what's left. The Supreme Council already has Bill 2424, which was submitted by Arsenius Yatsenuk, which is more complex. And it is surprising why, so far, this bill has not been considered, because it speaks not only of the moratorium, but also of the return and halt of the reform that is now in force in Ukraine. Indeed, this Bill of Light is to be supported because we will soon have no FAP and no hospital for the people in the villages. But still, I am addressing you as the head of the Supreme Council with a request to put the 2424 bill into order.
ParlaMint-UA_2013-05-17-m0.u173	Thank you. National MP Sergei Mishchenko, please.
ParlaMint-UA_2013-05-17-m0.u174	Thank you. Sergei Mishchenko, 98th District, Kyivshina. Kyivska is not the area involved in the pilot project. Sadly, though, the governor of the Kyiv region of the jury wanted to be in front of the entire planet. And you've seen a story across all the central channels about the closure of the Voronkow Rural Hospital in the Borispil district, which serves the 10,000 rural population of five locations. And that was to invite the central channels, bring thousands of people out on the street to take care of it, so that the governor would call off the decisions that closed the village hospital. So I would like to advise all the governors, including Mr. Jury, that you should first look, not in Feofania, but in rural hospitals, and then look into the eyes and close these hospitals to the rural population. Thank you.
ParlaMint-UA_2013-05-17-m0.u175	Ladies and gentlemen, let's move on to the decision-making process. I ask the National Deputies to sit down and vote peacefully. I'm voting on the bill (registration no. 2201) "On the introduction of a moratorium on the liquidation and reorganization of health facilities" for adoption as a basis. [[13:04:15]] For 290 Against 0, holding back - 0, not voting - 66. Decision taken. The factions. [[B in m in s a l in]] Please, Rudzkowski, you're raising your hand. What do you got?
ParlaMint-UA_2013-05-17-m0.u176	Dear Chairman, distinguished national MPs! Realizing that this law is very important to Ukraine, I propose that this law be passed in general. Let me give you an example: Today in the town of Ostre, where 22,000 Ukrainian citizens are serving, it is not clear why they try to reprove and close the hospital. In a city where more than ten thousand people live, there are some incomprehensible things. I appeal to the National Deputies to vote on this law in general so that such things do not occur. And these are not unique examples. Thank you.
ParlaMint-UA_2013-05-17-m0.u177	Ladies and gentlemen, I'm informing you that the conclusion of the Chief Research Administration is to reject the bill. The committee considered the basis and asked the committee to make this proposal. [[B in m in s a l in]] The questions have been considered.
ParlaMint-UA_2013-05-17-m0.u178	Ladies and gentlemen. Ladies and gentlemen, you're all the same as you say, let's act on the Rules. As there is at least one objection, we cannot place it in general. [[B in m in s a l in]] It's you. I can't bet there's a denial. Ladies and gentlemen, we have 13 hours six minutes. This is a proposition: we already have a different chapter, according to the Rules. There's an offer: 25 minutes to read the MPs' requests and 30 minutes to get the MPs to come forward. So let's move on to the questions. I'm asking that we finish this question. Please.
ParlaMint-UA_2013-05-17-m0.u179	Ladies and gentlemen, we continue to make inquiries. Eduard Leonov to the Prime Minister of Ukraine, the Attorney General of Ukraine, the Head of the Ukrainian Security Service, the head of the Kyiv City Public Administration for the criminal obstacle to the legitimate activities of the Ukrainian National Deputies in the Ukrainian State Postal Service on 29 January 2013, caused by the criminal inaction of the Kyiv City State Administration in ensuring public order and transparency in the formation of a public council at the Kyiv City Public Administration. Alexander Crnvolenka to the Prime Minister of Ukraine, Minister of Infrastructure of Ukraine, Head of the Kyiv City Public Administration for the financing of construction and the design of new stations and branches of the metropolis in Kiev from city and state budgets in 2013. Alexander Crnvolenka to the Prime Minister of Ukraine, Minister of Infrastructure of Ukraine, Head of the Kyiv City Administration, Head of the Kyiv District State Administration for the financing of the construction of the district road and the bridge crossings around the Dnipro River around the city of Kiev from the city of Kiev, Kiev District and State Budget of Ukraine in 2013. Igora Skini to the Attorney General of Ukraine, Minister of Internal Affairs of Ukraine, Head of the National Financial Inspectorate of Ukraine for the violation of the laws in force by officials of the Gorlov City Council. Jurya Bublika to the Attorney General of Ukraine on a limited-liability society called Poltavaboudinwest, who cheated 76 young families for 17.5 million dollars without building a house in Poltava, Borovovski Boulevard, 11. Gennady Zubka to the Prime Minister of Ukraine on speeding up the process of clearing humanitarian cargo and exempting the cost of storing cargo at customs warehouses. Tetjana Bachevi and Andrija Šipka to the Attorney General of Ukraine, Minister of Health of Ukraine, Minister of Social Policy of Ukraine, for the protection of the lives and health of citizens who have suffered as a result of the Chernobyl disaster. Igora Ribakova to Prime Minister of Ukraine for not allowing the closure of the railway station in the city of Korop Chernigiv district. Igora Ribakova to the Prime Minister of Ukraine on the transfer to the state property of a part of the road of international importance with a length of 4.48 km in the town of town of Chernigiv. Igora Miroshničnka and Alexander Mirny to the Prime Minister of Ukraine regarding the provision of information on the status of implementation of the State budget for Ukraine for 2013 in part of the implementation of pension and social benefits in accordance with decisions adopted in favour of Chernobyl, war veterans, children of war and other socially vulnerable groups, and the use of measures to make appropriate social payments. Vasil Pazinjak to the Prime Minister of Ukraine, head of the Lviv District State Administration for the examination of the facts of the economic irregularity of the creation of a unified tax inspection based on the State Tax Inspection of the City of Lviv Region, the application of measures to amend Appendix No. 1 to the Cabinet of Ministers Regulation of Ukraine of 20 March 2013 No.229 and the establishment of a unified State Tax Inspectorate of the Ministry of Revenue and Assembly of Ukraine on the basis of the Javan State Tax Inspectorate of Lviv Region, which will create optimal conditions for the work of legal and physical persons and will positively affect the work of the inspectorate. Irina Farion to the Prime Minister of Ukraine on the 150th anniversary of Boris Grinchenko's birth. Oleg Kanovac to the Attorney General of Ukraine on the proper investigation and punishment of the perpetrators of numerous acts of vandalism committed by criminals against the monuments of national-liberal heroes in the Lviv region during March-April 2013. Igora Schwaika to the Attorney General of Ukraine on violations by officials of the Kharkiv Interstate Prosecutor's Office of the Constitution of Ukraine and the Ukrainian Procurator's Act. Igor Schwaika to the Attorney General of Ukraine on violations by officials of the Kharkiv City Housing Council. Andrija Mohnik to the Attorney General of Ukraine on the commission of illegal acts, which contain signs of criminal offence provided for in article 361 of the Criminal Code of Ukraine (unsanctioned interference with electronic computing machines (computers), automated systems, computer networks or electricity networks), and violation of article 258 (General Positions on Intervention in Private Communication), article 263 (Removal of Information from Transport Telecommunications Networks) Criminal Code of Criminal Procedure. Oleg Pankević to the Attorney General of Ukraine on the insufficient response measures taken by law enforcement authorities to establish persons involved in illegal construction on the shore of Dniper. Valentina Navejchenka to the Minister of Internal Affairs of Ukraine on the use of measures to stop the cruel treatment of animals, the production and distribution of works promoting the cult of violence and cruelty. Jury Mikhalczyn to the head of the Supreme Qualifications Commission of Judges of Ukraine on the misconduct of the judge of the Land Court of the Lviv Region of Natalia Levitsky. Ruslana Marcinkov to the Prime Minister of Ukraine for the non-admission of the closing of the general education school in the village of Dibrovna Grodnian district of Chernigiv region. Oleg Orotyuk to the Prime Minister of Ukraine for the preservation of objects of archaeological heritage of the people of Ukraine and for the impossibility of the implementation of the measures envisaged in the "Kremencuccia Region Planning Scheme." Vitalia Žuravsky to Prime Minister of Ukraine for the allocation of funds for the capital repair of the district cultural building in Malina Zitomirsk district. Victor Razwadowski to the head of the National Territorial and Sectoral Union, South-West Railway, on the appeal of the voters of the 67 constituency to restore the stop of the passenger train No.13/14 "Harkov-Uzhrod" at the Pechanovka station of the Žitomir Region. Tetjana Sluz to Prime Minister of Ukraine, Attorney General of Ukraine, on the quality test of fruits and vegetables. Tetjana Sluz to the Prime Minister of Ukraine, the Attorney General of Ukraine, for the verification of canned plants for the quality of juice production. Valentina Matvijeva to the Prime Minister of Ukraine on the gross violation of the law in force at the time of the departure of the Ukraine’s Attorney General’s Office under construction in Kiev on the eve of Graduation, 4 and corruption of officials in the examination of the long-term appeals of citizens relating to the legality of decisions taken by the Kiev City Council on this issue. Valentina Matvieva to the Minister of Justice of Ukraine on the inaction of the authorities of the State Executive Service on the execution of a court order for the solicitation of the agricultural private-ordinary firm "Golden Colossus" of the Ternopil region of Ternopil. Igor Yankiva to the minister of social policy of Ukraine on the need to clarify the right to payment upon the loss of a disabled child who has worked and works today. Viktor Razwadowski to the Minister of Health of Ukraine for free hearing aids for the inhabitants of Lubarski and Žitomir district of Kucher, Galina Mazurenko, and the Moroz couple. Stepan Kubeva to the First Deputy Prime Minister of Ukraine on the need for urgent measures to allocate additional funds for the construction of housing for military personnel deployed to or from the city of Lviv on the Street of Wielickowska, 64. Oleg Osuhovski to the Prime Minister of Ukraine on violations of the rights and freedoms of persons with disabilities in Ukraine. Oleg Osuhovski to the Attorney General of Ukraine on the inaction of the authorities of the Provincial District Prosecutor's Office regarding the protection of the interests of the State and the labour team of the Private Shareholders Association of the "Revenenska Livarna Plant", which resulted in the suspension of revenue in the form of taxes, the non-payment of salaries and the release of people. Peter Simonenck to the Attorney General of Ukraine for the improper performance of his duties by law enforcement officials. Igor Vasjunika to the Attorney General of Ukraine on the illegal privatisation of the Open Shareholder Society of the Lviv Bus Plant. Igora Skini to the Head of the Supreme Council of Ukraine, Prime Minister of Ukraine, Secretary of the Council of National Security and Defence of Ukraine on the need to verify the actions of officials of the Gorlov City Council. Mikoli Tomenka to the Prime Minister of Ukraine on the suspension of government action by reducing the number of posts in higher education institutions. The Gennady of Moskal to the Attorney General of Ukraine on the recognition by the victims of the Biser credit union in Chernivka and the use of other measures for the recovery of lost funds and the protection of their rights. Paul Kirilenko to the Prime Minister of Ukraine on the conduct of anti-Ukrainian propaganda by the Ukrainian State Agency for Film. Valery Paccan to the head of the Kyiv District State Administration on the rightfulness of the transfer of part of the land of the Steikowi Landplace to construction. Roman Ilik to the head of the Public Stock Exchange Society of Ukrnafta to deal with the environmental and social consequences of the long-term oil and osokerit production in the territory of Borislav Lviv district. Irina Spirina to Prime Minister of Ukraine on the construction of a third line of road around the city of Dnipropetrovsk. Oksana Sold to the first deputy head of the Pension Fund of Ukraine on the inadequacy of the letter of the Pension Fund of Ukraine dated 5 March 2013 to the requirements of the Ukrainian Law on Collection and Accounting for the Only Contribution to the General Compulsory State Social Insurance. Oksana Sold to the Prime Minister of Ukraine for a decree of the Cabinet of Ministers of Ukraine dated 4 March 2013 No. 231 “Some issues of evaluation for tax purposes and the collection and payment of other compulsory payments that are made in accordance with legislation”. Vladimir Dudka to the Minister of Health of Ukraine for the examination of the refusal of further treatment of children with phenylketonuria. Rustama Raupov to the Attorney General of Ukraine, Minister of Internal Affairs of Ukraine, Minister of Social Policy of Ukraine for the appointment of Valery Sitajl as Deputy Director of the Executive Director of the Social Insurance Fund for temporary loss of employment in Kiev. Lidija Kotelak to the Minister of Culture of Ukraine for the preservation of the cultural heritage of the Zoločov Castle in the region of Lviv. Lidija Kotelak to the Prime Minister of Ukraine, Minister of Education and Science of Ukraine, regarding the failure to comply with the requirements of legislation regarding the organization of safe, regular and free transport of pupils, children and teachers of preschool and general educational establishments in rural areas to the place of education, work and home. Vladimir Pekhov to the Prime Minister of Ukraine on the situation that has arisen in the textile and light industries of the region and Ukraine as a whole. Alexander Sić to the Prime Minister of Ukraine on the status of implementation of the Regional Development Agreement between the Cabinet of Ministers of Ukraine and the Ivano-Frankiv District Council. Vladimir Kupczak to the Attorney General of Ukraine on the legality of the discovery of a criminal case against the Director of the Dubovetsk School of Public Education, I-III, Vasil Kovalczuk. Taras Kutov to Prime Minister of Ukraine for the financing of the sports complex in the town of Grebinka Poltava. Taras Kutov to the Prime Minister of Ukraine on the need to take immediate action to implement the Ukrainian Cabinet order of 11 September 2007 No. 735 on the transfer to the State of ownership of the T-17-05 road, which runs on the streets of the town of Gadjak Poltaw. Oleg Knavejkoh to the Attorney General of Ukraine, Minister of Ecology and Natural Resources of Ukraine, Head of the State Agency for Land Resources of Ukraine, on the verification of information provided in the collective address of residents of Lviv, regarding the situation surrounding Snopkovsky Park, as a result of illegal actions by officials of the Lviv City Council. Mikhail Golka to the Prime Minister of Ukraine for financing the repair of the Lucky Medin road in the Ternopil region. Stepan Kuba to the Attorney General of Ukraine to investigate the causes of the fictitious bankruptcy of the credit union Meotid and to protect the property rights of its members. Vasil Gladys to the Prime Minister of Ukraine on the necessary measures to open the customs crossing through the Ukrainian-Romanian border in the territory of the Ivano-Frankiv region. Groups of National Deputies (Derivna, Apostolic, Boyka) to the Prime Minister of Ukraine on the use of urgent measures to ensure the reconstruction of existing ones and the construction of new clean-up facilities in the cities and villages of the Ternopil region. Eugene Melnik to the Prime Minister of Ukraine, Minister of Ecology and Natural Resources of Ukraine for the violation of environmental and sanitary standards in the dumping of wastes and the fall of birds by the Public Shareholder Society of Vladimir Volinska Bird Factory. Eugene Melnik to the Prime Minister of Ukraine, Minister of Environment and Natural Resources of Ukraine, on the threat of environmental pollution and atmospheric air as a result of the activities of the Society with limited responsibility for Cronospan UA. Leontiya Martinyuka and Irina Farion to the Attorney General of Ukraine on the review of the Society's limited-liability "New World" at the address: Donetsk, Batisheva Street, 2-A. Mikoli Rudzikowski to the head of the Department of Internal Affairs of Ukraine in Kiev regarding the failure to respond to the parliamentary appeal on the material of the case concerning the wrong actions concerning Alexi Reva. Alexander Brigintz to the Attorney General of Ukraine regarding the failure of the Ukrainian law enforcement authorities to take action to bring criminal responsibility to persons who have allowed the monument to the national significance of the Kyiv Fortress and the illegal alienation of its territory. Sergey Kuzmenka to the Prime Minister of Ukraine on the question of the forecasting of Ukraine's State budget for 2014 to increase State social support for children of war, in accordance with the Ukrainian Law on the Social Protection of Children of War. Andrija Tajniboka to the Prime Minister of Ukraine on the use of urgent response measures aimed at addressing deficiencies in the activities of the State Environmental Inspectorate of Ukraine as part of the organization of the work of public environmental inspectors with responsibilities in Ukraine. Irina Heratchenko and Maria Matios to the Minister of Education and Science of Ukraine, Minister of Culture of Ukraine for the non-closure of the bookstore "Education" in the town of Nizhin. Igor Alekseieva to the Prime Minister of Ukraine on the failure of the Cabinet of Ministers to implement the transfer of property complexes of military towns in the city of Hmelnitsky. Mr. Alexander Turchinov to the Attorney General of Ukraine, Minister of Internal Affairs of Ukraine, on ignoring, for five years, the Office of the Prosecutor of Ukraine and the Ministry of Internal Affairs of Ukraine, on several occasions, the U.S. citizen of Battley Devin Lawrence's appeal to commit a crime against him in Ukraine. Vladimir Schulga to the Attorney General of Ukraine on the violation of voting rights, the failure of the courts and the illegal use of budgetary resources. Olga Fight for Prime Minister of Ukraine regarding the restoration of the right of Hmělnický residents to receive services in the area of housing and utilities. Ruslan Solvar to the Prime Minister of Ukraine on the facts of the unsatisfactory implementation of Cabinet of Ministers Decision No. 886 of 26 September 2012 on the Commission's data on employee salaries for work in the alien zone in 1986-1990. Jaroslav Fedorczuk to the Head of the Supreme Council of Ukraine, the Attorney General of Ukraine, the Minister of Justice of Ukraine, on the improper execution by the state authorities responsible for the electoral process, of their powers as determined by law, regarding the election of Ukraine's national deputies, VII of the convening of the Supreme Council of Ukraine. Anatolia Vitova to the Attorney General of Ukraine on the violation of the rights of Zavokzal Market entrepreneurs in Lutka. Jury Wozniak to Prime Minister of Ukraine on the protection of housing rights of residents of Hostel No. 3-A on Dundic Street in the city of Rivnam, which is covered by the Ukrainian Act "On the Enforcement of Housing Rights of Guests", which is established by decisions of the courts. Sveslav Hanenka to the Prime Minister of Ukraine on issues of non-compliance with the Prime Minister's orders to establish an inter-ministerial working group on medical equipment, design, construction and reconstruction of the National Children's Hospital Ohmatdit and the Hospital of the Donetsk Regional Clinical Medical Association. Gregory Smiyah to the Attorney General of Ukraine, the Head of the Ukrainian Security Service, for the examination of the facts of the criminal persecution of a citizen named Constantine Bilzan by criminal elements and their corruption with some representatives of the law enforcement agencies of the Dnipropetrov region. Andrija Pavlovski to Prime Minister of Ukraine, Minister of Regional Development, Construction and Housing of Ukraine, Head of the Kyiv City State Administration for the recognition of the emergency technical condition of residence No. 6/6 on the street of Bubnov in Kiev, the inadequacy of the living premises of this house to the sanitary and technical standards and the protection of the housing rights of its residents. Rev. Hanenka to the Minister of Health of Ukraine, head of the Kyiv City State Administration, for the closure of the Kyiv City’s Blood Production Department. Victor Chumak to the Attorney General of Ukraine on the prosecution's response to the illegal actions of the city head of the city of Ukraine of the Kyiv region regarding the overcoming of authority and the encroachment on the rights of the Society with limited responsibility for "Ukraine". Sergey Kaplina to the Attorney General of Ukraine on the need to take measures to hold individuals responsible for the illegal cessation of hot water supplies to houses in Poltava. Oleg Kulinić to the Cabinet of Ministers of Ukraine on the free receipt of a car by the disabled of the Great Homeland War of the 1st group Vasil Fedorenko. Andrija Shipka to Vice Prime Minister Yuri Boyk of Ukraine on the use of measures to prevent the operation of one of the largest metal-ministerial complex in Ukraine, which will lead to the release of workers, will significantly deteriorate the material situation of thousands of families in the city of Nicopol and will negatively affect the economic performance of the state. Igor Alekseyev to the Prime Minister of Ukraine on the need for action to test the legality of the non-implementation and modification of tenders for the disposal and cessation of the operation of Star and Impulse companies. Jaroslav Fedorchuk to the head of the Supreme Qualifications Commission of Judges of Ukraine, head of the High Council of Justice for the violation by the judge of the Pecher District Court of Kiev, Rodion Kiriev, of the judge’s oath, the principles of objectivity, impartiality, impartiality of justice by way of an order of 5 August 2011 to change the precautionary action of Julia Timoshenko from signing a non-refoulement agreement. Kryvetsky's Igor to the Attorney General of Ukraine, Minister of Interior of Ukraine, Head of the Ukrainian Security Service, on a request from the Libyan Embassy in Ukraine for the maintenance of cargo from Jordan to Libya. Alexander Mirnoy to Prime Minister of Ukraine to address the issue of increasing subsidies from the State budget of Ukraine to repair roads in the city of Isasław Hmelnicki district, which are in a very critical state, which could lead to the blocking of transit traffic. Alexander Mirna to the Prime Minister of Ukraine, the head of the National Shareholder Company Naftogaz Ukraine, to address the issue of the restoration of gas supply and work of the town of Hmielnicky for the purpose of providing hot water to the hospital, kindergartens, schools and residential buildings of the city. Oleg Tuggnibok to the Attorney General of Ukraine on the commission of illegal acts, which contain the signs of a criminal offence provided for in article 358 of the Ukrainian Criminal Code, article 1, section 1, of the Ukrainian Penal Code (subverting documents, seals, stamps, and forms, and the sale or use of forged documents, seals, stamps). Oleg Tajnibok to the Minister of Health of Ukraine on the need to take steps to comply with article 49 of the Constitution of Ukraine regarding the provision of free medical care to residents of the Dvoričan district of Kharkiv and the preservation of the district maternity home. Mr. Gigi to the Attorney General of Ukraine on the verification of the violation of the constitutional rights of the residents of the hostel in the town of Shargorod Winnicki district by the owners of a limited liability association "Shargorodrajagrobud", which leads to the deprivation of the only family available in their possession. Jury Crook to the Attorney General of Ukraine, Minister of Regional Development, Construction and Housing of Ukraine, Head of the State Sanitation and Epidemiological Service of Ukraine for the protection of the interests of Ukrainian citizens living on the street of Genoa and Gagarin Square of Odessa. Jurija Orotyuka to the Attorney General of Ukraine on the improper investigation of the case of the instigation of international hostility, which took place during a rally of democratic forces "Church: It's time to act", the Prosecutor's Office of the City of Cherkasa, the Prosecutor's Office of the Ministry of Internal Affairs of Ukraine in the Cherkas region, in particular the Sosnov District Department of the Ministry of Internal Affairs of Ukraine in the Cherkas region. Olga Mikhailenko to the Prime Minister of Ukraine on the allocation of funds for the completion of the construction of cleaning facilities in the village of Razdolno Kakhov district of the Hersonian region. Vitalia Žuravski to Prime Minister of Ukraine for the allocation of funds for the capital repair of Trokovici road – Nekraši and Lenin street in the village of the town type Cherniakhs of the Žitomir region. Mikli Tomenka to the Attorney General of Ukraine on the rightfulness of the involvement of budget officials in meetings organized by the government. Michael Blawajkok to the Attorney General of Ukraine on violations of the Ukrainian Advertising Act. Irina Sekh to the Minister of Infrastructure of Ukraine for the capital repair of the Broda-Radehov road. Andrija Mohnik to the Attorney General of Ukraine regarding the legality of the actions of the Winnick City Council and the Winnick City Head of Vladimir Groysman regarding the establishment of a monument to Taras Shevchenk in Winnitz. Olega Lalashka to the Prime Minister of Ukraine, Attorney General of Ukraine, on the cessation of illegal alienation and destruction of forests in the South Bank area of the Autonomous Republic of Crimea. Ladies and gentlemen, we have completed our examination of the questions. [[B in m in s a l in]] There's an hour of questions for "different." A little less than we have left, 28 minutes. People's deputies please sign up for "different." Jury of the People's Deputy, faction of the Company of Ukraine.
ParlaMint-UA_2013-05-17-m0.u180	I'd like to give the floor to a colleague of Goncharov's.
ParlaMint-UA_2013-05-17-m0.u181	Dear colleagues, today one of the most painful problems for the population is public service tariffs. During the years of independence, the state’s real energy balance has never been formed. And that's because the population has repeatedly been priced up, and it's been said that they're all working at the same cost. The calculations made by the National Academy of Sciences confirm the Company’s position that tariffs are now sufficient to cover their costs. The consumption of energy resources and utilities exceeds the cost of services actually delivered more than twice. Instead of putting order in the field, stopping the privatization of HKG and TEK enterprises and launching an active fight against mass theft, modernizing the structure, the authorities still want to go into the pockets of ordinary citizens, as evidenced by Bill 2948 of 29.04: on the pay of 50 kips per square metre, which is an additional 50 to 100 grubles. And Ukrainians continue to live in chrysalis, but they pay on European tariffs, not European wages, but debt, which today amounts to more than 1 billion dollars. And the population debt for the services of the HKG for today is 14 billion. The Cabinet of Ministers, its structures need to be set up with a clear mechanism to actually track how many resources are actually used, not designed in some office. Control the production or delivery process from the start to the end of the population or enterprise. Only in this case will fair prices be achieved in the field of energy and electricity and electricity generation, and new modern productions will be created, and regions will develop dynamically at the expense of savings. There will be a corresponding increase in the number of jobs and the level of wages. Ukraine's companies consistently advocate citizens' interests under the programme: "Control – Order – Justice". And it will continue to do so. Yes, the Lugansk Communists have returned to the Luganskvod community property. The Communists of Krasnopekopska are credited for the heat service. Such examples are not isolated. Therefore, the faction of the Ukrainian Company believes that the introduction of the National Academy of Sciences of Ukraine's monitoring system will be a valid argument for reviewing the current tariffs in the direction of the downturn and, above all, for the most vulnerable consumer groups, for the population. And the Company will control it. Thank you.
ParlaMint-UA_2013-05-17-m0.u182	National Deputy Brigine, Fatherland faction.
ParlaMint-UA_2013-05-17-m0.u183	Alexander Briginetz, Fatherland faction, Oblon. Please pass the word to Mikola Tomenko's shell.
ParlaMint-UA_2013-05-17-m0.u184	Mikola Tomenko.
ParlaMint-UA_2013-05-17-m0.u185	Dear colleagues! Today was a special day, a lot of talk in the Supreme Council about the fate of the Ukrainian village, and I was pleasantly impressed by the factions who during the last period have been convincingly proving that a better life than that of Yanukovic, Azarov, is not, radically opposed to the criminal policy of the President and the government. I would advise them not to beat their hearts, their souls, and not to scream in this rostrum, but when the President or the Prime Minister arrives, not to applaud in this drink, but to shout with us that shame is upon the authorities for destroying the Ukrainian village. For when the government comes, they all throw themselves and kiss their hands. As for their district, they tell us how much they love Ukrainian peasants. We have to love Ukrainian peasants at meetings with the right decisions when we vote here. Another thesis. If you love Ukrainian budgeters so much, call off the D.A., the police, the D.A.'s office today. The administration that tortured people today. I've got calls from Cherkas region, Kyiv district, Žitomir district, Žitomir district. Today, not only are budgeted for so-called anti-fascist rallying, today the audiences are walking on the list of vulnerable socio-hazardous elements of teachers, doctors, and they say, "Look, if you go to the opposition campaign, think about whether you're in trouble or when you come back, you'll be in trouble." That there was so much pressure, my friends, except in Stalinese times there might have been a time of repression. The third thesis. I'd like to speak to my parliamentary colleagues from the party of power. I don't know which technologies -- Russian or American -- have given you this idea that a country should be divided into fascists and anti-fascists. Well, that's a bad idea for the country to end. If you divide all Ukrainians into two categories into the presidential election campaign in the media, you're going to split it up as it was written in the chauvinist plans to divide Ukraine. For Ukraine must be united, not divided into fascists and anti - Fascists. I understand that in the next presidential election, there is no way Janukovitch can win. Only to intimidate people with nonexistent fascism and to say that he is the bearer of antifascist positions. But the price of Janukovich's victory will be the price of the country's split. So as an opposition, we are paying attention to the authorities and will do everything we can to prevent the division of the country. And we invite our colleagues, the Chinese and the guests of the city to come to the European square on May 18th and together with the opposition – "The Fatherland", "Freedom", "The Strike" to prove that we Ukrainians are able to rule in our own state! We can make a great nation and build Ukraine that we will be proud of!
ParlaMint-UA_2013-05-17-m0.u186	The national deputy of Dzardanov, the faction of the Ukrainian Company, and the national deputy of Bukhovec, the faction of the Ukrainian Company, pass on their word to Olga Borit. Six minutes, please.
ParlaMint-UA_2013-05-17-m0.u187	Dear Igor Grigorovich! Dear colleagues! Dear citizens of Ukraine! Today I want to draw attention to the anti-national policy of power in housing and utilities. In the city of Hmielnicki, there was an unacceptable situation regarding the provision of hot heat to the population. On 29 April 2013, the Hmelnicktécommunergo utility and the Southwest Network received a message from Pat "HmelnickGaz" that the gas supply of enterprises in May 2013 would be carried out solely for the purpose of providing hot water supplies to social infrastructure facilities. Just so we're clear. The owner of the control package of shares of HmelnickGaz is Pat Gaztek. This is one of the largest private owners of Ukrainian frauds in the media associated with Ukrainian businessman Dmitr Firtas. Commercial companies in Hmělnickýv were in debt to companies of 54 million dollars. At the same time, the government budget does not compensate for the difference in tariffs — 56 million dollars. There is no compensation for the benefits and subsidies — 7 million dollars. The debt of the public heating budget institutions amounts to 5 million dollars. Since May 13, 2013, the centralized hot water supply of the housing fund has been halted in Hmelnicki. 74,000 subscribers found themselves without hot water. It should be noted that the first time a break in the hot water supply in Hmelnické is not the first time. Thus, as a result of the government budget failure to compensate for the differences in tariffs, benefits, and subsidies that completely overlap the amount of debt, thousands of conscientious consumers do not receive the services they have paid for. A similar situation took place in Poltava. Ununderstandable logic is why debt left ordinary Ukrainians without water. In such a case, it is necessary to turn off the water on Bank’s and on Gruszewski, where officials sit. And if there is no money in the country's budget to compensate for tariffs, benefits, subsidies, and no subsidies, then they need to be released for professional incompetence. bourgeois politicians, transforming one another into power, have never benefited the country. It's time to release them. This situation has become possible as a result of the anti-national policy of capitalist power. On the basis of the search, what seems to be an effective owner is sold out and stolen, even what is the basis of life - support. The government sells skyscrapers, bribes, and private owners only raise tariffs for profit. As a result, there is a situation where people who pay for community services correctly do not receive such services. This could not have been the case in Soviet times, because the state itself acted as a truly effective owner, which provided citizens with reliable housing and utility functions. It's just a wild situation when a former state debt fraud shuts down its customers who pay him for gas. Housing-communal is a social sphere in which there can be no profit or language. It must be expelled from all corrupt practices and businessmen. If the oligarchs sitting on a gas pipe fail to do so, let them return it to the state and not abuse the Ukrainians. In Ukraine it is necessary to nationalize oil and gas crops as well as energy-generating and energy-distributing enterprises. In addition, the logic of power, which is intended to raise the International Monetary Fund’s dictates, was not understood in terms of the already large municipal debts. They're unheard of as big as they are. People pay them for violence. Today's government policy on housing and utilities is destructive. Housing networks are rotting and rustling. The word "modernization" is unknown to officials and municipal businessmen. Moreover, the authorities want to transfer the repair of the HKG to Ukrainian citizens. Today it is necessary to send cheap domestic gas to residential needs, which is now working only on local oligarchs. If all of this is done, the money for modernization will appear, and tariffs will have to be reduced to a reasonable one. Thank you very much, Your Honor.
ParlaMint-UA_2013-05-17-m0.u188	People's Deputy Shipko, faction of the Party of the Regions. Prepare, Squirrel, the Fatherland faction.
ParlaMint-UA_2013-05-17-m0.u189	Andrew Shipko, 35 constituency, Dnipropetrovské district, Nikopol, Ordjonikidze, Nicopolské district Dear colleagues, distinguished voters, I am approached by my electorate, by the people of the city of Nicopolis who are working, who are active, who are healthy. They're now out of work on forced vacations, and that's about 2,000 people. They're employees of a public stock company called the Nicopolian Ferrospile Factory. People are afraid that if the company stops at all, everyone will lose their jobs, and that's about 6,000 300 workers. Moreover, their families will be deprived of their means of livelihood — that is, almost 24,000 people. When it comes to the economy, the company will stop coming to government budgets at about 245 million dollars a year. Electricity will drop by 3,000 million kilowatts per hour per year. Coal production will stop for nearly 2.2 million tons per year. In view of the situation, I propose to extend the Action of the Cabinet of Ministers of Ukraine (No.919) (since 1.10.2012) to the Nicopoli Ferrospion Plant. Because the share of electricity consumed in the cost of production exceeded 30 percent and was about 34 percent in January/March this year. And the actual consumption rate is much higher than 60 million kilowatts per hour, which meets all the necessary criteria for energy-intensive enterprises defined in that regulation. If this step is taken, the Nicopolian Ferrosphrine plant can restore its production volumes to 80,000 tons per month. And that means that jobs will be saved, the level of pay with the prospect of growth according to the volume of production. From an economic point of view, this will ensure that all levels are fully accounted for. On behalf of my constituents, I would like to stress that the Nicopoli Ferrospion factory is a city-based enterprise. Thanks to his work, we can ensure the operation of various social infrastructure facilities both in the factory and in the city. It can be said frankly that children’s kindergartens, schools, hospitals work on the local budget. So once again, 24,000 people may be out of livelihoods, and the city of Nicopolis may be out of a portion of the local budget. We need to act now to prevent the situation from becoming more complicated. Please consider my request to Deputy Prime Minister Boyk Yuri Anatoliyovich of Ukraine. Thank you for your attention.
ParlaMint-UA_2013-05-17-m0.u190	Thank you. Have a seat, please. Squirrel, Fatherland faction. None.
ParlaMint-UA_2013-05-17-m0.u191	Vladimir Schwarliuk, "The Fatherland" faction. Please pass the word to Dmitri Schlemku.
ParlaMint-UA_2013-05-17-m0.u192	Please.
ParlaMint-UA_2013-05-17-m0.u193	Dmitry Schlemko, Fatherland faction. Dear compatriots, March 28th in the city of Ivano-Frankivsk, there was an action entitled "Get up Ukraine!".. Some 20,000 Galicians who attended the rally supported the three opposition forces in the Supreme Council of Ukraine, the All-Ukrainian Unions of Fatherland, Freedom and Vitaly Klicka, the announcement of President Yanukovic's impeachment, the release from prison, the unjustly convicted, Timoshenko Yulia Volodymyrna and the disastrous situation in the socio-economic sphere of Ukraine. The Carpathians have shown their willingness to take part in the "Get Up Ukraine" campaign. In the capital city of Kiev, May 18th. Yet no one could have predicted that the fear of mass peace would cloud the minds of today’s authorities. To combat the party’s assets of democratic opposition parties, law enforcement agencies have been put on hold, fed by the State budget. Something similar happened in 2004 before the Orange Revolution, but what they're creating today has no parallels. Each carrier, individual bus driver or minibus of Ivano-Frankiv, Ternopil, Lviv and other areas is forbidden to leave the area under different circumstances. On all the buses from Ivano-Frankishte to the capital on May 18 there was no ticket. Today, their drivers were told that buses were filled with 100 percent of passengers. And you think where, to Kiev? No, to the city of Ternopolis, and then you can stop. Passenger trains, Ivano-Frankivsky-Kiev, and 2 of them, are shipped empty because it is forbidden to sell tickets on May 18. What kind of economy? What convention? The main thing is to do the will of the leader, his Kiev leadership, who said, "They won't let you into the capital." At the same time, at an alternative rally on the same day that the Party of Regions is going to be holding, they're going to be forced to bring in the budget, the boys who have been paid, and they're going to be created to transport the green corridor. Blasphemy has no limits, but there is a point of national patience that has a limit, and it already boils. Ukrainian National Deputies from Ivano-Frankowishte, representing the All-Ukrainian Union of Fathers, Freedom and UDA, addressed the Deputy Director of the Ministry of Internal Affairs of the Ukraine of Ivano-Frankiv region of Sala Oleg Mihajlovich, the Chief of the Security Service of the Kmit District of Andrija Fedorovich and the Prosecutor of the Kalifitsky region of Alexander Anatoliyovich, and Ternoplishna to the leaders of the law enforcement authorities of their area of personal responsibility for their commands to prevent those wishing to participate in the peace meeting "Arise, Ukraine!" May 18, 2013, the beginning of which is scheduled for 12 hours in the European Square. I'll remind the authoritarian regime one of the laws: the more pressure is the stronger the resistance. Remember that tomorrow.
ParlaMint-UA_2013-05-17-m0.u194	The National Deputy Simonenko, a faction of the Ukrainian Company, gives the floor to the National Deputy Mikhailenko, a faction of the Ukrainian Company. Prepare Heidash, faction of the Party of the Regions.
ParlaMint-UA_2013-05-17-m0.u195	Olga Mikhailenko, faction of the Communist Party of Ukraine Dear Igor Grigorovich! Dear colleagues! Voters! I highlight the problem that hurts the population of 12 Hersonian sites, such as: the Red Polyan Chaplinsky; Radgospne Skadowski; Proletarka, the Great Copani, Radensk, Kostogrizov, Dobrosill Tsurupinski; Burgunka, Snake of Berislav; Novomykolayevka, Novopetrovka Vysopilski district. The government forced people two years ago because it was necessary to win the local elections to form loans through a district fund to support individual builders in the village of Own House and to gasify their homes with the laying of gas networks in the village, and some put them in part of the gas network in the village. For more than two years, people have paid interest in using loans, survived two winters in the cold, and have no gas because the state has not fulfilled its obligation to finance the construction of underground gas pipelines into villages. The head of the Herson government, Kostak, the head of the Naftogaz Ukrainian government, Bakulin, the government officials for repeated parliamentary appeals simply provide formal answers. The population of these Hersonian items has been led to despair, outraged by deception, ready for radical action, and a solution to this problem. And in general, the rate of gasification of the Hersonian population is extremely low. Not funded by the State for the construction of high - pressure inter-urban underground gas lines in the Kakhov region, a high - pressure underwater pipeline to the village of Bila Krynica in the Grand Alexander region, a pipeline to Novorontsovka. Please consider this statement to be a turn-of-the-line call to government officials and ultimately to the government to give people an answer about the specific start date for the start of the work after the completion of the construction of the underground gas lines of the Hersonian population. The Attorney General will handle this fraud, and the President of Ukraine will be appraised by the irresponsible leadership of the Hersonian region. Thank you.
ParlaMint-UA_2013-05-17-m0.u196	Thank you, sit down. The faction of the Party of the Regions, Haydos. Prepare the Freedom faction, Martinyuk.
ParlaMint-UA_2013-05-17-m0.u197	Istvan Haydos, faction of the Party of the Regions. Dear chairman, distinguished national deputies, distinguished listeners! Yesterday, I read with indignation the news that the deputy liberator of the Lviv District Council of Ostap Stakhov called for the help of the Zacarpathian side to destroy the Hungarian monument at the Verecko prefecture. I don't understand what freedom politicians think about the way Ukraine is going to Europe, which is what they say so passionately. [[B in m in s a l in]] After all, their actions, their words, their calls, would have led to the burning, destroyed monuments and terrorized, humiliated representatives of the national minorities living in our nation. [[B in m in s a l in]] Dear ones, all nations have their holy places. For Hungarians, this is the Verecko Preval, which opened the way for them to find their Fatherland over thousands of years ago, so let tourists go there, study history, get to know each other, associate with our citizens. Finally, let them spend their money on us, raising the economy of Ukraine. To conclude, that monument symbolizes the gate between east and west, the gate through which Ukraine and Ukraine will figuratively cross the road to the European Union, and therefore no one has the right to close these gates because for future generations we are obliged to overcome this path, future generations of Ukrainians, Hungarians, Russians, Romanians, other nationalities living in Ukraine. Thank you for your attention.
ParlaMint-UA_2013-05-17-m0.u198	Have a seat, please. The Freedom Union faction, Martinyuk Prepare Bysarov, faction of the Party of the Regions.
ParlaMint-UA_2013-05-17-m0.u199	Honorable Presidium, Honourable Members of the Ukrainian People! The Ukrainian people own only two strategic national wealth: land and gas transport. But Janukovich’s regime now extends its thieving tentacles to these strategic national riches. The All-Ukrainian Union "Freedom" asks Azarova: what was the motivation for introducing a bill to the Supreme Council on amendments to some Ukrainian legislative acts aimed at reforming "Ukrainian Naftogaza"? A particular surprise is the change to part of the first article 11 of this law, which gives the right to transfer corporate rights to any state-owned object, also changes to part nine of this article, which gives the Cabinet of Ministers the right to disprove state ownership of enterprises that are not subject to privatization. We want to remind you that the gas transport system is the national wealth of the Ukrainian people, and the attempt to steal the national wealth of the Ukrainian people is a crime. Finally, the thoughtless or deliberate criminal policy of the government regarding the transfer of lies into private hands, into the hands of oligarchs who did not put any money into the development of gas supply and transportation systems, has yielded results. An example is the situation in the city of Hmelnick, where, despite the fact that the hopers paid 110 percent for the services of Hmelnickgazu, the gas supply for all the boiler cities of Hmelnickýk was cut off. We ask the government to resolve immediately the question of the restoration of the gas supply of the town of Hmielnickýk, so that the hopers do not suffer from being paid for their services. The next situation is with the earth. There is no law on the sale of land yet, but officials of the Party of Regions, such as the head of the Krasilov district administration and the head of the Krasilov district organization of the Arsenyuk Party of the Arsenyuk Ivanovich, have been taking advantage of his impunity for the second year, decomposing the land in the Krasiliv region. Thousands of hectares of land he gives his orders to companies that are close to him, such as the Delilah Cereals, led by his brother Arsenyuk Alexander Ivanovich. From April 30 to May 1, an act of vandalism was carried out in the village of Kulczynka. At night, the technique of Delilah Cereals was tore apart 80 hectares of pastures on the grounds that the head of the Arsenyuk administration had handed this land over to his brother. There are over 350 dairy heads in the village of Culchinka. We have a government claim that there should be a development of animal production. What may be the development of animal production when members of the Party of Regions take away the last pieces of land from humans? Despite all the appeals to the Attorney General's Office, to the President, to the Prime Minister, until now the Krasilov region continues to be ruled by a man who, together, using his family position, his brothers, is barging the land. We demand the resignation of Arsenyuk from the post of head of the Reich administration, and we demand that the land vachanal be stopped in Krasilovsky territory.
ParlaMint-UA_2013-05-17-m0.u200	Bysarov, faction of the Party of the Regions, national deputy.
ParlaMint-UA_2013-05-17-m0.u201	Bysarov, 50 constituency. Dear fellow MPs! Dear voters! There's this saying, "To run a state, you need to talk less and listen more." Regrettably, the real problems of real people remain as a result of controversy and political disputes in Ukraine. And it's sad when it happens to older people who need social protection the most. During special receptions, I hear many complaints about the absence of public transportation in rural areas. In the light of the reform of the medical system, this problem has become a personal social problem. In particular, the issue is particularly acute in Dobropil and Dobropil district. There's a lot of older people living in this area, and getting to the center for them is a real problem. And it's not just the inconveniences that older people face: the road to the Reycenter costs almost 30 bucks. Of course, with these rates, it's not everyone's budget to travel to the Pension Fund or the hospital. In the era of digital television, wireless Internet, a variety of gadgets, the problem of transportation should be exhausted. And for people in megapolis with a well-established public transport system, that's actually the way it is. However, we were chosen, not to empathize, but to solve our problems, to the national parliament. In February of this year, in the 50th district, the Social Bus program was launched. The area of Dobropel district villages is covered by a bus that provides free transportation to elderly people, many children, and unprotected citizens to social facilities such as the hospital, the Pension Fund, employment management and social protection, and so on. Otherwise, it is impossible to show respect for and accountability to our electorate. I understand that the implementation of a specific program in a particular area is not the solution to the problem. It's just a temporary cure for a painful symptom. Apparently, public transportation and transportation in rural areas are not enough to solve the problem. This needs to be done systematically, since it is not only about the implementation of the social guarantees that the State is taking on. It's a question of the quality of people's lives. Building a new social model. In particular, there is a need for effective approaches to developing the principle of a new infrastructure system in rural areas. Thank you for your attention.
ParlaMint-UA_2013-05-17-m0.u202	Dear National Deputies! The time for performances in the "Variance" is over. Let me remind you that the next plenary meeting will take place on Tuesday, May 21, at 10 a.m. The morning session of the Supreme Council of Ukraine is closed.
