ParlaMint-UA_2013-10-24-m1.u1	Dear National Deputies! People's deputies, please prepare for registration. Invite the deputies to the session room. Turn on the "Race" system. [[16:34:38]] There were 408 national deputies registered in the hall. I declare the evening session of the Supreme Council of Ukraine open. Dear National Deputies! The faction board of directors decided to speak to the factions or factions for three minutes. That's why I give the word Arsenia Yatsenyuk, the "Fatherland" faction. Please.
ParlaMint-UA_2013-10-24-m1.u2	Members of the Ukrainian Parliament! Today, an unprecedented story has taken place in Parliament. First. With regard to the bill on the release of Julia Timoshenko, which was never introduced by President Yanukovic, who was never introduced by the Party of the Regions. There are now three bills. The first, introduced by the three opposition factions, is Fatherland, Freedom and UDA, which fully and fully meets the requirements and criteria of the European Union, which is fully and fully in line with the decision of the European Court of Human Rights, which is fully and fully in line with the decision of President Viktor Yanukovic of Ukraine, who signed with Viktor Yushchenk in 2005, when he fought political persecution, namely the amendment of the Amnesty Act of Ukraine, which provides for the prohibition of selective justice and the removal of obstacles to the signing of the agreement between Ukraine and the European Union. We propose to include in the agenda our bill, realizing that our political opponents will not agree solely to the inclusion of our bill. We are ready to vote in favour of the inclusion in the agenda of the opposition's daily bill, which meets the requirements of the EU, and of the other two legislative acts that the Party of the Regions insists on. And the second. Why wasn't Parliament working right now? Last night, a falsified amendment on behalf of the opposition seems to be submitted to the Ukrainian Tax Code Act, after which the amendment seems to be voted on by a committee, although it was not passed by a committee. The amendment then goes into the Parliamentary Hall, and the content is as follows. The Party of Regions, because of a fake amendment, decided to withdraw Vitaly Klitschka from the presidential election and make it with the hands of the Party of Fathers and mine. [[B in m in s a l in]] And to show that as if the Party of Regions had nothing to do with it. Viktor Janukovic personally gave the command to Vladimir Ribak, Head of the Supreme Council, to hold an illegal vote, to extend the bill in order to destroy the Ukrainian opposition. I'm telling you clearly, we have a rule of opposition: "One for all and all for one." And that's why we won't give you the opportunity to do it.
ParlaMint-UA_2013-10-24-m1.u3	Thank you. Freedom Union, who's going to act? All three minutes, we've agreed. I'll give everyone 30 seconds. Please.
ParlaMint-UA_2013-10-24-m1.u4	. That's why you can make laws. I understand what you're going to do in the presidential election -- fake the pierced, copy, you're not going to get anywhere. We're the only ones in this. Ribak has no right to sign a forged law, and Viktor Janukovic has no right to place his signature under an illegal document that you, the Party of the Regions, have falsified on his direct instructions. And Ribak got the right document.
ParlaMint-UA_2013-10-24-m1.u5	Thank you. Did you notice, Arsenija Petrovich, that you criticized me and I gave you my word for 30 minutes? Please, National Deputy, Head of the Oleg Tsagnibok faction. Please.
ParlaMint-UA_2013-10-24-m1.u6	Oleg Tuggnibok, faction of the All-Ukrainian Freedom Union. Dear society, but above all, I address all Ukrainians who listen and see -- what is now being done in the Ukrainian Parliament. Yesterday, under the walls of the Kyiv City Council, they demonstrated this bandit power that they would do in the street elections. How will the Central Election Commission work? How will administrative buildings work? And first of all, how the Ministry of Internal Affairs and the Public Prosecutor's Office will work. This is how they prepare for the 2015 elections. And what happened today was a disgraceful demonstration of how directly in Parliament they're going to frame legislation in order to win the victory of today's presidential candidate, President Yanukovic. You know, from the very beginning, when this happened at the meeting of the Parliamentary Head, I asked the Party questions to the regions and the communists: well, you're the majority today, and why can't you do everything as you've always done? You've driven people down, you've got MPs who vote, you've got enough votes, and you'd pass the law, and you'd end up with the rest that burns like that, with your majority of votes. But no, you had to demonstrate to everyone here what they're doing, going over the corpses in fact, what they're doing with the violation, the complete violation, the procedure. He said we'd do everything we wanted, because we're here in power, we've taken God's beard, and we'll write the laws, not the parliament, not the representatives of the Ukrainian people. This is actually the basic essence of what has happened today: the demonstration of disregard for the Constitution, the legislation and the Rules. What are you afraid of? Are you afraid of competition? You're afraid of running for presidents? Do you want to take it off like that? But this is a demonstration of your weakness! It's a demonstration of what you can't even face in a duel! [[Applause]] You're demonstrating, even if you have the power and the power and the ability, the administrative resources. And we imagine how you're going to make choices: control in the Central Electoral Commission. You're even afraid to leave if you want to make an honest election! Why was this done a month before Vilnius? Or maybe you want to provoke us to block Parliament now, and then you go out with these smiles and say, "Neddar Oliynik here today said, "In a possible failure of Euro-Integration, the opposition is guilty." Are you preparing such a public opinion?Oh, my God! Society, it didn't work! Once again, I would like to emphasize whether you are responsible for all these abuses, whether you are a member of the city council of Kyivsky, whether you are deputizing a village council, whether you are going to have to answer to Parliament today, sooner or later. And it is not a threat, it is a cry of despair from the Ukrainian people who will lift you up to the villa for your crimes! Glory to Ukraine!
ParlaMint-UA_2013-10-24-m1.u7	Please, the Vitaly Call faction. The faction manager is Vitaly Volodymyrovich Klitschko. Please.
ParlaMint-UA_2013-10-24-m1.u8	Honorable MPs, distinguished voters! Noting all the dirty machinations that are taking place today in Parliament with the texts of laws that have a direct bearing on the power of the MPs, I want to say that this will not intimidate me or stop me. [[Applause]] To put an end to all sorts of ideas and attempts to deal with me as a possible candidate, I want to say that I am going to the Presidents. [[Applause]] What's happening to me is only done as a rival to Viktor Yanukovic. Today, by amending the Tax Code, the authorities are trying to destroy their political competitors. They quietly hid the right to a code that has absolutely a political context and is directed personally at me as a likely candidate for the Presidents. [[Applause]] I honestly stated in the media: yes, I have the right to reside in Germany, but that in no way violates either Ukrainian legislation or my citizenship. I've been a Ukrainian citizen since the declaration of independence of Ukraine and I always remain a Ukrainian citizen. Now, trying to prevent me from taking part in the presidential election through an article in the Tax Code, I'm actually trying to get rid of Ukrainian citizenship -- it's nonsense and cynical fraud. It won't work! [[Applause]] Today’s government has raised a violent wave of discredit. Only yesterday was it announced that my brother Vladimir had changed his citizenship and accepted another country’s citizenship. Today, dirty postcards are distributed on the subway in Crimea, Kiev, to intimidate and stop. That doesn't scare us or stop us. And the last. The Party of Regions wants to block Parliament with the hands of the opposition, then break the signing of the Association Agreement and place full responsibility on the opposition. I want to say again, it won't work. Because Euro-integration.
ParlaMint-UA_2013-10-24-m1.u9	30 seconds. Please.
ParlaMint-UA_2013-10-24-m1.u10	European integration is our strategic choice and we can prove it because Ukraine is Europe.
ParlaMint-UA_2013-10-24-m1.u11	Thank you. Faction of the Communist Party of Ukraine, Simonenko Peter Mikolaiovich.
ParlaMint-UA_2013-10-24-m1.u12	I would like to draw your attention to what is going on in the Supreme Council. In the Supreme Council, representatives of the oligarchic clans and factions share the office of President. And this struggle has already led to a breakthrough not only of them on a political scale but of all the people of Ukraine. And this is done, both in this struggle for office and from what virtually seems to be the national interests of Ukraine today, and the question of how to cheat our Ukrainian electorate again is resolved. The faction of the Company will not participate in your Sabbath, which you have here today, but I propose why I have asked the electorate to radically change the approach of the organization of work today. And first of all, we need to look at legislation that doesn't touch the fate of an oligarch, but rather decide the fate of the Ukrainian people and make decisions about the abolition of pension reform, the reversal of decisions on medical reform, which today simply destroy the Ukrainian people and make it impossible for many people to see the prospect. Just like what's relevant today, and you're dragging the people of Ukraine into a chasm, signing a deal that envisions a rise in tariffs and prices, both for gas and for electricity. And the faction of the Ukrainian Company insists that a decision be taken urgently on a moratorium on tariff increases, including gas and electricity prices. The Company's faction is offering today to protect the simple man to whom you, fighting for the President's chair, will once again promise not to pay the wages, because you are here, those who own these factories and factories, where you severely exploit people do not pay the wages. And the faction of the Company has offered to introduce 0.5 percent a day's pay for people. You've robbed them, and you're trying to rob them one more time today by cheating on them that you'll bring in the President's office again, the representatives of the oligarchic clans. I am also concerned today that we are at risk of adopting the State Budget, as is the case that the economy does not work in this way and because there is no financial resources and there is no pressure from abroad on a particular Ukrainian producer after betraying national interests, you will give economic space to produce from the West, not to a Ukrainian producer! Today, the issue of Ukraine's future has arisen, and we Communists are talking about the need for a decision by the Ukrainian Law on the return to state ownership of basic industries. And to clean up all the oligarchs sitting on the gas and oil well today, then there'll be cheap gas, and the oil will be cheap, and the prices will be completely different on the heat and on the housing and utility tariffs. That's what the faction of the Company comes out of and then to the people of Ukraine.
ParlaMint-UA_2013-10-24-m1.u13	Let me finish.
ParlaMint-UA_2013-10-24-m1.u14	And when I address the people of Ukraine once again, let us open our eyes and see who today is delegated with what authority to the Supreme Council and what they are doing here with the future fate of Ukraine. Thank you.
ParlaMint-UA_2013-10-24-m1.u15	Thank you. The faction of the Party of the Regions, Hanna Mikolayevna Herman. Please.
ParlaMint-UA_2013-10-24-m1.u16	First and foremost: I ask many leaders of the Ukrainian opposition not to look for potential culprits in the failure of European integration – there will be no failure of European integration in Ukraine. The other one. Arseny Petrovich! You have stated here that your hands have been removed by the law of Klick from the future presidential election. What kind of hands do you have, Arsenius Petrovich, that makes such things so easy to do? I understand, Arsenija Petrovich, that the deputy from your faction who made this amendment may have had no experience or understanding what he was doing. I can understand Mrs. Oksana, who was on the committee yesterday with her ears all over this amendment because she has no experience. But you, Arsenius Petrovich, well know what this amendment means. You knew that very well, and either you don't control what's happening in your factions, or you do it consciously. Just as you deliberately did today, you did not allow the inclusion of a daily bill that would allow Timoshenko to go to Germany for treatment. You deliberately failed to do so, Arsenija Petrovich, because you know very well that if Timoshenko is not released for treatment, the deal will not be signed. And once the deal is signed, once we've released and signed, you're not getting any light from the presidency in Ukraine. Because Victor Janukovic, by signing such an agreement, rises to such a height that he has no opponent in this room or outside this hall. That's why we're going to sign this deal, but you knew very well that if you fail the deal, and if you remove the Klicka presidency. Yeah, he doesn't pay taxes in Ukraine? But these are his problems, his responsibility to the electorate. Thus he pays taxes to ensure that pensions are high in German pensioners, including those who plundered our land during the Great Homeland War. But this is his responsibility to the electorate of the future. He's going to explain it during the election campaign, why it is. But he must have the right and the right to participate in presidential elections on an equal footing with all of you, Arsenius Petrovich. And I can't imagine, Arsenius Petrovich, as you wash away from your reputation this terrible stain that is made by your hands, which is something you can do in this country. Thank you.
ParlaMint-UA_2013-10-24-m1.u17	Thank you. Two minutes away from the faction, National Deputy Lazko. Please.
ParlaMint-UA_2013-10-24-m1.u18	Oleg Lazko, Radical Party. Dear citizens of Ukraine! I don't think any of you have a secret that meeting in the Supreme Council is the most cynical meeting you can imagine, and Ukrainian politics is the dirtiest, meanest, most subtle of all the politicians in the world. Evidence? Please. Here we see how today, in our eyes, the Party of the Regions is illegally falsifying the results of the changes to the Tax Code, which in fact deprives the Klick of the possibility of running to the Presidents. But with whose hands does the Party of Regions do this? The hands of a man who calls himself the leader of the opposition, the hands of Jacinyuk. I mean, it's called "higher ground and flying in politics." And when Yatzenuk comes out and tells me that the amendment is faked, I have a question: Why doesn't the Deputy Brichenko from whom this amendment was made come out and say that he didn't give it to her, that he didn't understand, that he was passing it on? Next, that's what I'd like to say. This is the Yatzenuk who tells us that we're all alone, we're all together, and so on. I remember 2009 when Yatzenuk told me every day that Timoshenko needed to be put in prison for gas contracts. Today, he goes out and tells us that he needs to be released. Senya, why did you plant it? In order to go out today and tell you what to fire? You are the Pharisees! You're rude people. Tell me, how many times before Yanukovich in the office have you been running for office? You drink in the evening and in the morning so that Julia can sit in prison, for when she comes out, you will be gone! That's the answer to all the questions. And that's why today Yatzenuk and the Party of the Regions lied and conspired not to let Klick go to the presidential election today. That's how they are.
ParlaMint-UA_2013-10-24-m1.u19	Let me finish. [[B in m in s a l in]] Finish up.
ParlaMint-UA_2013-10-24-m1.u20	So they conspired against the whole country. In summary, Ukrainian citizens who have been holding these darmoids for 22 years are suffering. The shame of the Yatzenuk Party!
ParlaMint-UA_2013-10-24-m1.u21	Have a seat. We didn't make a deal, we don't have to. [[B in m in s a l in]] Dear National Deputies!
ParlaMint-UA_2013-10-24-m1.u22	[[Unheard]]
ParlaMint-UA_2013-10-24-m1.u23	Yeah. But then I'll give the lines and you call them, and. They also called it the Dragnibok. Then I'll give the Party of the Regions, the Communists -- the replica, everything, I'll give it to everyone. Let's do the replicas, ladies. One minute. One minute to the National Deputy Brichenko. Tell me, did you submit or did you not make any comments? And that's it, you don't have to do anything anymore. Please.
ParlaMint-UA_2013-10-24-m1.u24	Dear colleagues! Volodymyr Vasilovich! I'm telling you again that before Law 2045 and the amendments that are there for all marked by Igor Brichenko, the National Deputy of Ukraine, I have nothing to do with it. [[Applause]] And that's short and clear, and you don't have to play, you don't have to play. If you don't want to adopt a bill from the opposition to liberate Yulia Timoshenko, you don't have to translate your problems into Igor Brichenko.
ParlaMint-UA_2013-10-24-m1.u25	Thank you, sit down, sit down. [[B in m in s a l in]] It's early. It's early.".. There are papers, listen. I'm asking for your attention! I'm asking for your attention! I'll give you the paperwork right now, we'll listen to the committee manager. That's it. It's too early for shame. The People's Deputy – I am asking for attention because I have raised all the transcripts, letters, signatures – all looked at by the National Deputy of Ukraine Brichenk on October 16 with two separate letters at his signature, with two separate letters of 31 amendments, not 2 and 31 amendments, to the bill amending the Ukrainian Tax Code on the calculation and registration of taxpayers (Law No. 2054a), which was adopted by the Supreme Council of Ukraine at the first reading on October 8th. Next. Amendment 36 — Do Not Disrupt! – Amendments 36 and 37, which are contained in the comparative table to second reading, were proposed by National Deputy Brichenk in the first letter to article 183 of the Ukrainian Tax Code and the second letter to articles 70 and 170 respectively. Signatures, 31 amendments -- I saw it on the committee myself. Next. The Committee on Tax and Customs Policy, when preparing a comparative table for the second reading of the bill, takes into account the proposals of articles 70 and 170 of the Ukrainian Tax Code, presented by Brichenko in a second letter, which was voted by the Supreme Council of Ukraine during its consideration of the bill. It should be noted that under the authority of the head of the Committee on Tax and Customs Policy, the preparation of the bill was entrusted to a group of Ukrainian national deputies headed by the national deputy Oksana Prodan, the Clicko faction. According to the transcripts. According to the committee's transcript, the working group has never raised the issue of a separate consideration of these amendments at its meetings. Also, according to the transcript of the meeting, a large number of proposals for rejection of a number of amendments were made by national MP Sergey Teryohin (he was now approaching), which was fully considered by the committee. There was no proposal to reject the amendments. What they're saying right now. In addition, the commission of the committee’s chairman was entrusted to the working group to work out individual proposals made by national deputies that could be taken into account if they were reconciled. There were no relevant suggestions for the selected amendments from the working group. According to a transcript of the bill, the Supreme Council of Ukraine recommended that the bill be adopted in a second reading and as a whole by a vote. Today it's a question. I announced this bill and invited the chairman of the committee to report. You saw, you blocked the reporter completely, and you asked me, "Take this bill off." I say, "What?" - "There are disagreements." I say, "I asked, I went out, you saw, the head of the committee." I say, "It raises the question of the Vitalia Klitschka faction MP. We're said to have considered all the questions on the committee. "Then, I say, "I'm going to take a look at it and ask the MPs, go, sit in the cities." I announced a review of the law. You'll have the opportunity to speak and tell the Supreme Council, journalists and everyone. But everything was done so that the law would not be considered. At this time, the MPs from the hall say they don't allow the law to be considered -- put it to the vote. I put it to a vote. The MPs voted. The law is passed. So we can go on and discuss the order of the day session. And that's what I'm going to give, and I'm going to give all the factions a minute. And let's take a closer look at the question. Please, a replica, Arsenius Yatzenuk.
ParlaMint-UA_2013-10-24-m1.u26	Thanks to your agony, the agony of the Party of Regions, which you have beautifully demonstrated today, realizing that when the opposition is unique, President Yanukovic will go back to his shameful Ukrainian past in 2015. You have strengthened our alliance today as a union of three opposition forces so strongly that I am convinced that we have enough wisdom, we have enough patience, we have enough strength to break your back and win the presidential election. And show us what we're capable of for the people of Ukraine, for every Ukrainian. What we are capable of as a united opposition force. And we thank you for your provocation today, leading to only one: an even stronger unity of three forces: "The Fatherland," "The Freedoms" and "The Strike."
ParlaMint-UA_2013-10-24-m1.u27	Thank you. Victor Chumak, Vitaly Klitschka faction. Please.
ParlaMint-UA_2013-10-24-m1.u28	Thank you. Victor Chumak, 214 constituency, Kiev. Volodymyr Vasilovich, just under the transcript, National Deputy Brichenko informed the entire Ukraine and the entire Supreme Council of the commission of the crime provided for in article 358 of the Criminal Code of Ukraine. In addition, the National MP Soboljev handed over two documents. Teryohin, I apologize, I handed over two papers. The document is a comparative table that was considered on the committee, a comparative table that was given to the people’s deputies in the hall. The difference, the difference is 22 revisions. I mean, according to what was said here in the Supreme Council's rostrum that there was an official crime, you have no right to sign this law. You need to assign an investigation, transfer the materials to the D.A.'s office to conduct a pre-trial investigation into this crime.
ParlaMint-UA_2013-10-24-m1.u29	Thank you. I beg you, Freedom faction, who is it? Please, who? There's no line. Is it? I can't see. I beg of you, Oleg Tuggnibok. Please have a minute.
ParlaMint-UA_2013-10-24-m1.u30	In fact, what happened today? What's happened is that even in the House of Representatives, we've heard completely different versions of how the committee worked, which the committee approved. And what you have done today, Vladimir Vasilovich, as Head of Parliament, shows only one thing that, unfortunately, you are not governed by the Rules and the Constitution, but by double standards and perhaps the statute of the Party of the Regions. You should be what you're always stressing, the head of the Ukrainian Parliament, not the head of one of the clans there, who, unfortunately, is doing such huge crimes in the Ukrainian state today. And I think, Volodymyr Vasilovich, it is in your power today to begin to change the perception and authority of parliament. This issue needs to be re-elected and the law approved according to current Ukrainian legislation. It's in your power and power.
ParlaMint-UA_2013-10-24-m1.u31	Party of regions. Please, National Deputy Koleznichenko.
ParlaMint-UA_2013-10-24-m1.u32	I'll start in Ukrainian. But we need to understand what we want to say about what Ukraine will hear. There's this saying, "Sply in the eyes, and it'll be called God's dew." That's what we all heard today. For everyone, it was clear and obvious that there were manipulations of public opinion. The MP from Fatherland claimed that he had not amended it. In fact, he indicated the number of the bill that had not been considered here. Manipulation once. Second. Unfortunately, Mr. Klitschko stated that he was in fact a taxpayer of a neighbouring State. It's his right. And if we agree to that, we can all work for pensioners from other countries, including those who destroyed our people during the Great Homeland War. And the main thing. Today, we have seen the terror of the same-minded, organically intertwined in hatred, hypocrisy and bile. The strike destroyed the opposition.
ParlaMint-UA_2013-10-24-m1.u33	The Communist Party faction, Adam Ivanovich Martinyuk Let's hear it.
ParlaMint-UA_2013-10-24-m1.u34	Dear voters, I'd like to address you, not the session room. And first of all, that's what I'm talking about. Did your eyes see who bought you in 2012? Now you're supposed to be counting on those who bought you. That's one thing. The other one. I refer to the ancients and the parliamentarians, and the politicians, and you say, "I'm going to go back." And you remember today's phrase, "I'm going somewhere already?" This reminds me of just one thing and confirms the opinion of those who say that the advisors of the highest-ranking advisors are said to be candidates for presidents of the same group: the oceanic, the highly paid, the dollar advisors. As soon as their advice is done, everyone is well - known. So think, think again.
ParlaMint-UA_2013-10-24-m1.u35	I'm asking Vitalia Hometic, head of the committee. I'd like to ask you a question that's being raised here, as amended. Please.
ParlaMint-UA_2013-10-24-m1.u36	Thank you. Dear Volodymyr Vasilovich, dear colleagues! Unfortunately, when I considered the bill, I was not given the floor to report in full on the content of the bill and on the amendments that we had both voted on in the committee and proposed to vote in Parliament. So given that there's a little bit of time now, I'm going to talk about how things are going. Two weeks ago, a working group was set up on the committee, and we started working on changes to legislation that involved simplifying business procedures and many other useful things. In the first reading, 330 national deputies voted in favour of the bill, even more so. Before the second reading, our goal was to have no less support and no less vote. To this end, the committee involved all factions to finalize the bill. And all the participants have been in this process until today. In general, this law has a significant positive effect, but unfortunately, the emphasis has shifted to the other side. The committee yesterday considered the same text that was being considered in Parliament today. For this, I can state responsiblely as head of the committee, that's the first. And for that, there's a transcript of our committee. And for that, there are all the documents distributed at the committee meeting yesterday. No, no coma, no dot was altered without a committee decision. And for that there is, again, a stenography of the committee. In unison, all the national deputies supported the text that was being considered today. This morning, I was approached by a national MP, Brichenko, and he said that his amendments were 31, and some of them needed to be rejected. They are considered by the committee, but they must be rejected. We started to consult as to how to do it. I invited McKeenk, as chairman of the regulatory committee, and we met together and found a way to call off this amendment or vote down. Unfortunately, though, that was not the case, the rostrum was blocked, and the law was passed in general. As for the amendments, I can responsibly say that National MP Brichenko has made 31 amendments, and there is his signature. The only thing is, not before the Law, as he said, 2045, but before the Law of 2054, which we were looking at today. He said he was making amendments until 2045. There's a signature, and I think today's expertise can do anything.
ParlaMint-UA_2013-10-24-m1.u37	Let me finish. 30 minutes. 30 seconds.
ParlaMint-UA_2013-10-24-m1.u38	An expert can conclude whether this signature was original or if someone has falsified it and given an answer. So if there's an initiative to create a commission of inquiry, I'm ready to answer to the commission of inquiry, to the various agencies that are going to be. And I'm convinced of the right conduct of all the committee's procedural matters. What happened today was exactly the way I proposed.
ParlaMint-UA_2013-10-24-m1.u39	Finish it.
ParlaMint-UA_2013-10-24-m1.u40	To say from the rostrum that there was such a problem, and I had to say it. And MacKeenko had to confirm and propose a way. But the rostrum was blocked and a decision was made in general. So you make decisions about the steps that have been taken. As chairman of the committee, I can answer, and in the future, which way to choose, choose your decision, and we will work as a committee. Thank you.
ParlaMint-UA_2013-10-24-m1.u41	Thank you. All the national MPs have spoken. Ladies and gentlemen, we have three draft laws on the treatment of convicted persons who cannot be treated, whether they can be treated or not, and so that they can be treated abroad. So there's a proposal, I'm asking for attention, all three committees, three draft laws, I'm going to read now, put in the agenda of the next plenary week and look at all these three draft laws. To assign a committee to work. Is there no power? We're going to need a working group, and they're going to make this proposal so that we can review all three of these laws in the next plenary week. So please note, I will now read all three laws for inclusion in the agenda of the next plenary week. Ladies and gentlemen, I will put draft Law 3479 to the vote. I'll read all three! You're not listening! I say, I'll read all three together, put it to the vote, put it to the vote. Draft Law 3479: prohibiting selective justice and removing obstacles to the signing of the Association Agreement between Ukraine and the European Union and its member States. This is the People's Deputy Yatsenuk's draft law. Next. [[B in m in s a l in]] Three leaders of opposition factions. Next. Draft Act No. 3,461 amending article 84 of the Criminal Code of Ukraine on the possibility of treatment abroad for persons sentenced to be deprived of their liberty. This is a draft law, Ukrainian National Deputy Angelika Viktorovna Labunska. Third Act No. 2453a: Draft Act amending certain Ukrainian legislation on treatment of convicts abroad. This is a draft of the Law of the People's Deputy Mishchenko Sergio Grigorovitch. So I'm voting on the inclusion in the agenda of all three laws in the next plenary week, and we're tasking the committee to work on these laws. People's deputies, please vote. [[17:19:20]] For 367 Against - 0, held - 0, not voted - 49. Decision taken. Please, by the factions. All factions, with the exception of the Ukrainian Company, supported this decision. Honourable National Deputies, the draft Law amending some Ukrainian legislation on the definition of composition, content and order of conformity of documentation with the land administration is under consideration. The Kaletnik People's Deputy Project. As we consider, first reading. Vote the procedure briefly. [[17:20:26]] For-188. Against 78, held – 13, not a vote – 130. Decision taken. May I have the head of the Committee, Grigori Mikolaiovich Kaletnik, please.
ParlaMint-UA_2013-10-24-m1.u42	Thank you, Reverend Vladimir Vasilovich! Dear fellow national MPs, distinguished radio listeners! For your consideration, it is proposed to amend some Ukrainian legislative acts to determine the composition of the content and the manner in which the country's documentation is agreed upon. The bill proposes to amend Ukraine's Land Code to Ukraine's Land Administration Act and a number of other laws with a view to eliminating differences in the title of land administration documentation in different laws; the second is to define an exhaustive list of documents from which the country documentation is made up; the third is to define an exclusive list of entities that agree and approve specific types of land administration documentation. The need for legislative changes is due to the fact that the Ukrainian Land Administration Act today does not contain an exclusive list of types of land administration documentation and allows Ukraine laws and other legal instruments to establish other types of land administration documentation. In various forms of documentation, the same issues are solved, and according to existing legislation, the documentation with the land structure is called in different ways and contains different approaches to its acceptance and approval. The bill defines the composition and content of each type of documentation provided for in article 25 of the Ukrainian Land Administration Act. This will make it possible to establish clear rules for the development of each type of documentation, to shorten the time frame for the development of documentation, and to avoid controversial issues in the course of national expertise. And shorten its terms of approval and approval by the appropriate executive authorities and local self - government, reduce corruption in land relations. As a result of its consideration of the bill at its meeting, the committee decided to recommend to the Supreme Council of Ukraine the proposed bill to be adopted on a basis. Please be supportive. Thank you.
ParlaMint-UA_2013-10-24-m1.u43	Thank you, sit down. Willing to Discuss? Can't see? Yes. Please register with the faction for discussion. I'm asking for the Freedom Union, the People's Deputy of Kyde.
ParlaMint-UA_2013-10-24-m1.u44	Please give the floor to the MP Marchinkov.
ParlaMint-UA_2013-10-24-m1.u45	Deputy Marcinkov, please.
ParlaMint-UA_2013-10-24-m1.u46	Ruslan Marcinkov, All-Ukrainian Freedom Union. In fact, the bill is trying to deceive us today. After a thorough study of the bill, the faction of the All-Ukrainian Freedom Union calls for a vote against the bill. Because it has a significant point to make, namely, that it is removed from the agreement of projects by a land structure that is not the only body left today to subject local self - government. Please tell me, how can a project be made with a land structure in the historical and architectural area, in nature conservation, in recreational areas, without taking into account master plans and urban documentation, and without taking into account available water supply networks, gas supply? It also makes it more difficult to establish boundaries in nature and to produce projects by land administration, since it is necessary to refer to a central authority that implements public policy in the field of land relations. Please tell me, will Grandma go to Kiev from a remote village to obtain such permission? The answer is no. Today, the examples of Statecommunal sequestration are abundant in informational space. Recently, he was in the village of Vertívka, in the district of Chernigovishte, where a rural pasture, originally belonging to the village, was divided without the knowledge of the community. The crowd learned about this in the postfactum when they came to determine boundaries in kind. This law is therefore beneficial to land-based latifundists and to the region’s movements, not to ordinary Ukrainians. Tomorrow we demand that Azarov come and appear here before us, and report to us what is happening today, what kind of land parcel is happening today throughout Ukraine? I also call on you representatives of Fatherland and Strike, not to vote for this bill. Glory to Ukraine!
ParlaMint-UA_2013-10-24-m1.u47	Thank you. The faction of the Party of the Regions, National Deputy Alexander Momot.
ParlaMint-UA_2013-10-24-m1.u48	National Deputy Momot, Dnipropetrovsk, 27th District, Party of Regions. Dear colleagues, very much emotional, and the law is purely pragmatic. Him. Well, I think it's going to establish a clear order of examination and approval of the land order documentation, and it's going to make the lives of those people who walk on the floor and not on the corrupt architecture to which the colleague said it would simplify a little bit. I urge everyone to support the bill.
ParlaMint-UA_2013-10-24-m1.u49	The Fatherland faction, National Deputy Ivan Kirilenko.
ParlaMint-UA_2013-10-24-m1.u50	Dear Vladimir Vasilovich, distinguished colleagues! The Fatherland faction, Ivan Kirilenko. We will only support this bill if it is thoroughly worked out. We have serious comments about him. In particular, we will mention those who have been told: in the current legislation, there has been a rule since 1991 that local authorities should be given the necessary authority to develop a land-disposal project. In connection with the corruption of this norm, the principle of silent agreement was enacted in July 2013. If no agreement has been given or no documentation has been sent within a month, the withdrawal project may be ordered without permission. And all of a sudden, we're proposing, more faithfully, in this law, it's proposed to extend to almost all kinds of documentation and land structure, by law, it's 15 species, the rule of license. So what do we do, simplify or make things worse? The following is centralized by the agreement of the country’s documentation by the central executive authorities, which makes it possible for the physical and legal struggles to increase for this agreement. Dear colleagues, what are we doing? The bill contains a list of land - based documents that are subject to state expertise. This kind of activity of land organs, we know how corrupt it is. How can it be understood that land authorities agree on all land projects without exception? These projects are developed or tested by certified landowner engineers or licensed organizations. The quality of projects, unfortunately, is zero, composition, content and rules for each type of project, is regulated by the relevant regulatory and technical documentation. To this end, the State Standards, Rules, and Rules are approved by the State Department. In ten years, only three standards of the required 52 have been approved, and no methodological recommendations are available from most design. The bill proposes to exclude regulation, composition, content from the law.
ParlaMint-UA_2013-10-24-m1.u51	The Vitalia Klitschka faction, People's Deputy Kaplin. Please.
ParlaMint-UA_2013-10-24-m1.u52	Vitalia Klicka faction, Poltava, 144 constituency, Ukrainian National Deputy Kaplin. Our political power is always in the order of Ukrainian legislation, especially when it applies directly to people’s interests. We know that legislation on land is extremely needed. extraordinary order and initiatives aimed at systemic change before everything about the harmonization of documentation, in front of everything in order of the relationship between the licensing authorities and the citizens, we need a very serious effort from our parliamentary bloc. At the same time, we find it unacceptable to adopt this law in the way it is submitted to the Supreme Council. We vote for him in the first reading, but in the second reading, I think we need to focus our joint efforts on giving him a new life. In most of their position, this document is technical and is designed to provide the only approach to the development and harmonization of land documentation in Ukraine. Similarly, we are paying attention to the public, which will be important in the process of the second phase of this law, that there are sometimes very different types of documents in Ukraine and we are focusing on the fact that there are regions that are developing new documents, which are certainly a corrupt norm and do not contribute to order in this matter. So we vote in the first reading and work hard in the second reading to really serve the Ukrainians, not the law that will produce corruption on this issue. Thank you.
ParlaMint-UA_2013-10-24-m1.u53	Thank you. They're all willing to come out. I'm asking the people's deputies to prepare for the vote. People's deputies, please vote in person, don't vote in favour of each other. I am voting on the draft Act (No.3238) amending certain Ukrainian legislative acts on the definition of composition, content and order of acceptance of the documentation with the land administration for adoption as a basis. Please vote. Please vote. [[17:31:26]] For 252 Against it, 42. It's been held up to 11. There was no vote – 88. Decision taken. According to factions of the Party of the Regions – 181, "The Fatherland" – 0, "The Hit of Vitalia Klicka" – 25, "Freedom" – 0, the Company – 30, "The Factions" – 16. We are looking at a draft law that we started to consider, and then the session hall was blocked, number 3099: the amendment to the Ukrainian Land Code on cost-of-work in the preparation and execution of land trade. How do we view it? Vote the reduced procedure. [[17:32:30.]] For 180. Decision taken. The factions. Reported the first deputy head of the Committee on Agriculture Policy and Land Relations, Taras Viktorovich Kutovov. Please.
ParlaMint-UA_2013-10-24-m1.u54	Dear colleagues, it is proposed that you consider Bill 3099, introduced by me, National Deputy Kutov, Deputys Shablatovich, Bublik and Kirilenko. Today, according to legislation (article 134 of the Code of Land), land or property is subject to sale at or on land. Unfortunately, land trade is rarely used in practice today. There are several reasons for this, and the situation is primarily caused by a number of them. First. There are 24 items that allow them to be used so that the land auctions do not take place. But even in cases where land auctions are to be held, the procedure is too complex and sometimes expensive. What do we propose to our bill? Our bill suggests simplifying and costing the organization of land trade, and it foresees the following. First. This contrasts with the mandatory publication of land trade announcements in the media of the regional and local regions of the country at the same time. The publication of advertisements on the official website of the State Agency remains mandatory. Second offer. This is a reduction in the maximum payout and remuneration of the land merchant from 3 000,500, which is 59 000, 500, to 2,000. Up to two of the maximum payouts of 34,000 untaxed minimum citizens’ income. The change in the mandatory printing of advertisements in three types of printed media is also due to the high cost of such printing. So in all three media levels, printing is sometimes made up in general, taking into account the Republican level of these media, in total between 20,000 and 22,000 dollars. For small areas, such value in the end actually renders the land trade unprofitable, and it is very often the land trades that take place in small plots. I want to right away the fear that canceling the press releases will limit access to information. First of all, in print media.
ParlaMint-UA_2013-10-24-m1.u55	Finish up.
ParlaMint-UA_2013-10-24-m1.u56	I'm speaking from the committee, so I'm asking if I can add the same time from the committee. I'm doing the same thing from the committee.
ParlaMint-UA_2013-10-24-m1.u57	And you want to come out of the faction?
ParlaMint-UA_2013-10-24-m1.u58	No, I'm like the author and the committee.
ParlaMint-UA_2013-10-24-m1.u59	Oh, please, two more minutes.
ParlaMint-UA_2013-10-24-m1.u60	First of all, it's easier to hide information in printed changes. So you know that the circulation is sometimes eliminated. Print in controlled media and so on. It's different. Those who want to take part in the land trade are easy to access the Internet, where complete information about the land, including a cartographic picture, must be provided. And also, this is also what we're proposing in our bill, the video report on trade. That is, if people are interested in specific land trades, they will have unhindered access to this information. The Science and Experimental Authority supports the bill in the first reading. Since I am, in addition to being one of the authors of this bill, as well as authorized by the committee of profile, I want to prove to you that the decision of the committee is as follows. Recommend to the Supreme Council of Ukraine a draft Ukrainian law amending the Ukrainian Land Code on the cost of preparing and conducting land trades, introduced by the people's deputies Kutov, Shablatovic, Bublik, Kirilenko, number 3099, to be accepted as a basis and as a whole. Thank you. Please support our bill.
ParlaMint-UA_2013-10-24-m1.u61	Do you want to talk about it? Please sign up from factions for discussion. Please, Freedom Union, National Deputy Osuhovski.
ParlaMint-UA_2013-10-24-m1.u62	Please pass the word to Sabia.
ParlaMint-UA_2013-10-24-m1.u63	Please, National Deputy Sabi. Turn it on.
ParlaMint-UA_2013-10-24-m1.u64	Igor Sabiy, All-Ukrainian Freedom Union, Hmelnickin, 189 constituency. The "Freedom" faction of the All-Ukrainian Union will support this bill. Since it will really allow for more open auctions. It will provide an opportunity to avoid these many abuses during the land trade. This will definitely affect the value of land that will be sold. And it will definitely have a positive effect on the filling of local budgets. We will definitely support this bill and urge everyone to support it. Thank you. Glory to Ukraine!
ParlaMint-UA_2013-10-24-m1.u65	Thank you. The Fatherland faction, the national deputy of Yavorowski.
ParlaMint-UA_2013-10-24-m1.u66	Vladimir Yavorowski, Fatherland, Troyshina. I'm happy to give my word to my friend Mikola Tomenka.
ParlaMint-UA_2013-10-24-m1.u67	He's our friend, too. Mikola Tomenko, please.
ParlaMint-UA_2013-10-24-m1.u68	Dear colleagues, the faction will support this bill not only because we are co-authored by our colleague and expert in the field of land relations and agriculture, Ivan Grigorovich Kirilenko, but because we know what the scheme is today. It refers not only to land trade but also to so - called public hearings and other things when, by means of publications in the printed media, 50 or 100 copies are produced. And then this print media is hiding, and so when the check goes on, say there were public discussions, do you know that there were land auctions or auctions. He says, of course, we know there was a newspaper, but no one read it. We, by the way, in the changes and in the expansion of the Information Access Act, make information on the website of the central executive body that is not being recorded there as a matter of urgency. In an ideal that should be both there and there and on the website and in a printed media medium that all participants, in this case when it comes to land auctions, should know about, participate in, and ensure appropriate competitiveness. That's why we're going to vote in favour of this bill. But I want to say one more question. Vladimir Vasilovich, we actually have two strategies in land relations in Parliament. In general, the strategy of MPs, as you can see, is different factions that are trying to make it clear and democratic and competitive land relations. And the idea that the government comes to us to quietly take all land relations under the land bank is to allow them to monopolize not only land trade there, but the store, the sale, the monopolization of the land market. So our position, our faction, is that this is a delicate question that the land issue should be discussed and taken into account by all factions, not by participation, let's say there are a few people who dream through the land bank that they monopolize land issues in Ukraine. We'll vote yes.
ParlaMint-UA_2013-10-24-m1.u69	Thank you. The faction of the Party of the Regions, the national deputy of Žuravsky.
ParlaMint-UA_2013-10-24-m1.u70	Dear colleagues, our faction will support this bill in the first reading. It is about making changes to a number of articles: 135, 137, and 139 of the Ukrainian Codex earth. At the same time, the proposed solutions to the cost of preparing and conducting land trades are appropriate in the second reading. In particular, it is questionable that the mandatory publication of a press release by a land trader should be refused. This, in our view, will have a negative impact on the ability of the broad population to get the right information, lower the level of legal guarantees of free access. This can be corrected in a second reading. The project is to be accepted as a basis. Thank you.
ParlaMint-UA_2013-10-24-m1.u71	Thank you. The faction of the Company of Ukraine, National Deputy Zubczewski.
ParlaMint-UA_2013-10-24-m1.u72	Alexander Zubchevsky, the Communist faction. Please give my word to my colleague, Ruslan Skarbowiczuk.
ParlaMint-UA_2013-10-24-m1.u73	Please.
ParlaMint-UA_2013-10-24-m1.u74	Crabschuck Ruslan, Ukrainian Company. Ladies and gentlemen, the bill proposes to make the land trade even more restricted. You want to give up the media announcements about the date of the land trades, which advertise district councils and local councils, and where the price of the issue is tens and sometimes hundreds and thousands of hectares. And hundreds of thousands of dollars, respectively. The changes will not lead to the cost of auctions but rather to corruption and will open up new schemes of government land fraud. Because information about future trades will not be published in the media, but only on the site of the Statecomymmem, the potential buyers of these land areas are narrowed down considerably, especially in small towns and villages where the Internet and the computer are far from everyone, and you understand that. So, what's the benefit of this bill? For the benefit of the sellers of the land, which are private firms. KPU is definitely against the sale of land, in principle. What is more, we are opposed to making the field of trade with the earth more closed. There are at least three ways of costing the organization of trade and leaving the area of the operation open. For example, shorten the information required for publication in the media, or refuse to place advertisements in public printed publications. Keep it in regional and local publications at the same time. But these methods are not even considered. The most corrupt route is proposed for consideration. So we think that Bill 3099 can't be supported in this way, and the Company won't vote for it. Thank you.
ParlaMint-UA_2013-10-24-m1.u75	Ladies and gentlemen, the People's Deputy Kaplan is passing a minute to Kutov. Please. As head of the committee, I'll give you a minute.
ParlaMint-UA_2013-10-24-m1.u76	I'd like to use this moment to answer the question of your esteemed colleague Vitali Zuravsky. First, in the bill, I didn't say this, unfortunately, in my speech, is the possibility of a land trade organiser's hearing if it's a local council to also put this information in printed media. I mean, if there's a resource, and if there's a wish, it's not forbidden, it's just an additional option that's left behind by local councils. And the Communist colleagues were also going to say about a thousand hectares and so on. For example, in Ukraine, 15 plots of government and municipal property were sold in 2013 with a total area of 3.19 hectares. 3 hectares were sold this year from land trade to a total of 2 million 150,000 dollars. The lease was also passed on to 26 lands for a total of half a million dollars. So when we're talking here, today we're talking about some kind of oversized scale, it's not really there, and it's not true. So I would still like to support this bill as a whole. Thank you.
ParlaMint-UA_2013-10-24-m1.u77	Thank you. One minute, the head of the Kaletnik Committee. Gregory Kaletnik, please.
ParlaMint-UA_2013-10-24-m1.u78	Thank you. Thank you, Vladimir Vasilovich. I'd like to speak to my colleagues in the faction, my colleagues in the National Deputies in this room. We unanimously supported the bill on the committee, not just on the basis of the bill, but in general. Because, think about it, your esteemed colleagues, the cost of printing an ad in the three kinds of printed media that exist today is worth more than 22,000 adverts. The land plot for a peasant costs 11-15 thousand. Can you load it? That's why only three plots were sold over a six-month period, and we don't have the ability to keep loading our peasants like that. So I'd like to turn to you. I'm asking you to uphold this law in the first and in general as a law. Thank you, Vladimir Vasilovich. Thank you, colleagues. Please support
ParlaMint-UA_2013-10-24-m1.u79	Thank you. The discussion is over. I'm asking the people's deputies to prepare for the vote. I am voting on the draft Act (No.3099) amending the Ukrainian Land Code (for the cost of preparing and conducting land trade) for adoption as a basis and as a whole. People's deputies, please vote. [[17:46:09]] For 297 Against-0, held-2, didn't vote-90. Decision taken. The factions. Ladies and gentlemen, I have been approached by leaders, and they ask us to consider the bill now, and I will continue the session for 15 minutes, just as we will. Act (No0916) on the principles of the functioning of the Ukrainian electricity market (second reading). I ask, will the Secretary of the Committee on Fuel Energy, Nuclear Policy and Nuclear Security report to Gregory Ivanovich Grub. Please.
ParlaMint-UA_2013-10-24-m1.u80	Dear Chief, distinguished national MPs! The bill on the principles for the functioning of the electricity market in Ukraine (No. 0916) was adopted in the first reading on the basis of the Supreme Council of the Sixth Call on November 20, 2012. And transferred and registered in accordance with the Supreme Council Rules for consideration by the Seventh Council. The bill has now been completed by a committee that takes into account the comments and suggestions of the legal entities of the legislative initiative, and it has been introduced to the Supreme Council of Ukraine in its second reading. During the drafting of the bill, many proposals and comments came to his text, which were processed and submitted to the text of the bill as a result of the work of a working group led by the Ministry of Energy and Coal Industry of Ukraine. Proposals and comments were also received from the secretariat of the Energy Community, the World Bank, the European Business Association, the US Chamber of Commerce in Ukraine and the expert environment. The vast majority of the proposals were taken into account. This bill brings Ukraine's energy legislation to Directive 54 of the European Union on the general rules for the functioning of the internal electricity market, which we should have implemented in legislation by 1 January 2012. The adoption of the law is our obligation to the Energy Society. The unique buyer market model, which exists in Ukraine, is morally outdated, does not contribute to investment in the sector, is an obstacle to energy development. And in particular, it does not allow manufacturers and suppliers of electricity to choose their own counterparties. So it's limiting competition. The bill provides for a transitional period for the completion of the basic mechanisms of the new market and the development of a series of normative documents. Two years are spent preparing the necessary documents to function in the document market and carrying out other previous measures. In 2016, the new market is to operate in pilot mode. Its results in the first half of 2017 provide for the necessary changes to legislation. The full-scale electricity market is launched no later than July 1, 2017. The Committee on Fuel Energy, Nuclear Policy and Nuclear Security at its meeting on 15 October this year, following discussions, decided to recommend to the Supreme Council of Ukraine the adoption of a bill in a second reading and as a whole. Moreover, in order to avoid balance.
ParlaMint-UA_2013-10-24-m1.u81	Let me finish.
ParlaMint-UA_2013-10-24-m1.u82	In addition, with the aim of not allowing for a balance, as foreseen by the bill of the new electricity market model, the committee authorized me as a reporter to ask the Supreme Council to adopt the bill as a whole in the proposed editorial committee. This is the right column of the compare table. The committee is asking for his support. I also ask you to support the committee's proposal. And taking into account the possible shortcomings of the editorial and grammatical nature of the bill in the drafting of the committee, before submitting the bill voted to the Head of the Supreme Council of Ukraine, I propose that the Office of the Supreme Council of Ukraine be entrusted with the technical and legal process of the law adopted.
ParlaMint-UA_2013-10-24-m1.u83	May I put it to a vote? I'm betting on the bill, I'm asking you to pay attention, sit down and vote. The draft Law (No. 0916) on the principles for the functioning of Ukraine's electricity market for adoption in second reading and in general and the Committee's proposals. People's deputies, please vote. [[17:52:19.]] For 305 Against 0, held – 2, not voted – 68. Decision taken. The factions. The Law (2288a) is under consideration: Amendments to the Ukrainian Tax Code (for taxation under the terms of the distribution agreement). Project Oneshchenko. How do we view it? Please vote in favour of the summary procedure. [[17:53:06]] For-173 Decision taken. Reporting by Ukrainian national deputy Mikola Mikolaajovich Rudzkowski. Please. Then he's head of the committee.
ParlaMint-UA_2013-10-24-m1.u84	Dear colleagues! Your opinion is suggested by a bill that settles some of the inaccuracies of the Act amending the Code of Taxation (for some matters of taxation under distribution agreements). The necessity of this law is that today there are some contradictions in the determination of the operator by product distribution agreements as well as the investor. During last day at the meeting, we considered the bill carefully and discussed it. There were substantial remarks made by the people's deputies, and then we had a discussion with investors under this law, and we convinced them that the transfer from a joint venture operator to an investor of part of the tax credit was normalized and took place during the same tax period. We convinced them to do so and agreed that in the second reading, we would consider and make adjustments. In principle, this law could be introduced in exchange for these proposals, but given what was considered yesterday on the committee, and today it is in the order of the day, it is not possible to make a replacement. Any decision taken by the Supreme Council, whether to support in the first reading or in the first reading the rereading, but it will still go to the committee, it will be with investors and their inspectors.
ParlaMint-UA_2013-10-24-m1.u85	Have a seat. I'm asking the committee. Head of the Tax and Customs Policy Committee. Ladies and gentlemen, sit down! Another law after that, and we're done! They haven't worked all day.
ParlaMint-UA_2013-10-24-m1.u86	Dear Vladimir Vasilovich, a bill submitted by the people’s deputies Rudzikowski and Anishchenk, was considered at a committee meeting, Bill 2288, which deals with the distribution of products. And we passed this bill twice because there were disagreements about the transfer of tax credit between the participants in the joint distribution of products. There were disagreements between the Ministry of Revenue and the Ministry of Fuel and Energy. The minister of ecology of Ukraine was also present. We have come to the conclusion that this bill needs to be worked out. And in fact, there's already an editing of this work on the committee. What are some ways in which we can work together? There are two ways: the first is the adoption of the first reading and the second reading of the amendments; the second is the sending back of the legislative initiative to make it a workable option. The committee took a decision on the second, that is to say, to send for work and perhaps to make a decision in general at the next meeting. But perhaps we should vote first for the first reading, if it is voted, if not - then the committee is ready to work on the first reading together with the author. Thank you.
ParlaMint-UA_2013-10-24-m1.u87	Thank you. May I put it to a vote? [[B in m in s a l in]] Sign up for factions. Freedom, the People's Deputy of Kyde, please.
ParlaMint-UA_2013-10-24-m1.u88	Please give the floor to the member of Parliament to Blavajko
ParlaMint-UA_2013-10-24-m1.u89	Pass it on, please.
ParlaMint-UA_2013-10-24-m1.u90	Mikhail Blaujki, the All-Ukrainian Freedom Union. Dear Mr. Head, honourable Members, I want to tell you today that there is more cynicism than I did on the Supreme Council today, as I did on the committee yesterday. And today we are transforming the committee, unfortunately, and this is an appeal to our leader, Vitaly Yuriovich Hometicnik. Because our committee, I think, was designed to fill the budget to watch where the funds are being used today. And when we set up a committee and a committee today, they're cynically serving these clans that are robbing the state that have led the state today to poverty that does not pay taxes. And we want to bring it in today. I'm just, you know, ashamed of the MP Rudzkowski, who was handed over his draft yesterday and agreed that we weren't bringing him in for the session today. So he goes out to the rostrum and claims that they made a deal yesterday. Who are you talking to, Mr. Rudzkowski? Maybe you're making a deal with some clans that help you vote? We've already received a bill today that highlighted your, you know, interest and your work on our committee. Your Honor, I don't think the bill has passed through the committee, the committee's decision is quite different -- to send it to the legislator. And I'm proposing to withdraw this bill, not consider it, and not turn our committee into a mockery. Vladimir Vasilovich, please!
ParlaMint-UA_2013-10-24-m1.u91	That's what's gonna happen. It will be laid down, on the basis of which we must accept, in accordance with the Rules. And then it's not going to be the basis -- the return. That's what's gonna happen. Party of regions, national deputy Zac.
ParlaMint-UA_2013-10-24-m1.u92	I'll ask Jaroslav Sukh to give the floor.
ParlaMint-UA_2013-10-24-m1.u93	Pass it on, please.
ParlaMint-UA_2013-10-24-m1.u94	Dear colleagues, first of all, I would like to address the young Ukrainian national MPs, who have power and stupid energy. Don't discuss a man, MP. You can discuss the text of the bill if you know anything about it. With regard to this bill, the Social Policy and Labour Committee’s interest in this bill will increase the interest of private business in making investments in the mining of Ukraine’s beneficial mines, as the introduction of the proposed changes will lead to a substantial improvement in the tax regime for distribution agreements. That's what we're talking about: ensuring the energy independence of the Ukrainian State. Please support the bill as a basis.
ParlaMint-UA_2013-10-24-m1.u95	Paul Rosenko, strike faction, please.
ParlaMint-UA_2013-10-24-m1.u96	Paul Rosenco, Vitaly Caller's Faction. I'm also not going to take up time and I'm going to say that, of course, in the entire civilized world, the distribution contract scheme is a working scheme that really allows the state and private capital to jointly develop the appropriate foundations in one country or another. But unfortunately, this is what happens in civilized countries. If we translate this topic into our Ukrainian realities, it is because of the production distribution agreements in Ukraine that unfortunately have quite unpleasant shadow schemes, the actual exhaustion of Ukrainian nadrs, the Ukrainian resources. So let's face it, there's actually a committee decision not to lie to each other here, there's a committee decision to reject this bill. I think we don't have to play some first-reading stuff there, and then we'll work something out. There is a committee decision, and the strike faction proposes that all of us vote in favour of rejecting this bill.
ParlaMint-UA_2013-10-24-m1.u97	All those who wish to speak? They're all here. Dear National Deputies! Attention! The MPs made various proposals. According to article 114, I should be the first to lay the groundwork. I'm not going to go beyond that, and then I'm going to put on a return like this, and I'm going to bring in the deputies. That's why I'm asking for your attention. Let's go to the vote. I'm betting on a draft Act (2288a) amending the Ukrainian Tax Code (for taxation under the terms of the distribution agreement) to be adopted as a basis. People's deputies please identify themselves. Vote. [[18:03:06]] For 218. Against-76, held-5, not voted-63. The decision is not taken. The factions. I am betting on the vote, honourable national deputies, to return the draft Law 2288a to the subject of the right of legislative initiative for further work. Please vote. Please vote. [[18:03:43]] For 219 Against 68, held – 4, not voted – 68. The decision is not taken. The law is rejected. The last, the last law, the honourable, honourable deputies. A draft Act (No.3453) is under consideration to amend the Ukrainian Act on the State Budget for Ukraine for 2013 (to increase expenditure to the State Investment Agency and to manage Ukraine's national projects). How do we view it? Okay. Short-term procedure. Please. I'm 15 minutes away. [[18:04:39]] For 165 Against 65, held – 1, not a vote – 122. Decision taken. Please, Head of the Committee, Geller Evgeny Borisovich.
ParlaMint-UA_2013-10-24-m1.u98	Thank you. Dear Volodymyr Vasilovich, distinguished national deputies and invited! Allow me to present the proposed bill to me as the author and also to make a proposal to the Committee on Budget Affairs concerning it. The bill is prepared to ensure the implementation of the National Air Express Project, in particular for the Chinese party's commitment to pay the insurance premium for the use of credit granted by Eximbank to China under State guarantees, and for the development of a technical and economic basis for the project "Miske Ring Road Around Kiev". In order to implement the bill, it is proposed to increase the expenditure of the General Fund of the State Budget for the State Investment Agency and to manage national projects by 212 million dollars to balance the government budget rates by increasing the income portion of the budget. The Budget Committee at its October 23rd meeting considered the draft bill. According to the agreed conclusion of the Chief Scientific and Expert Office of the Apparatus, the first reading of the bill can be adopted on the basis of the comments made and the corresponding conclusion of the government. The Ministry of Finance does not object to the adoption of the bill. I note that the bill needs to be harmonized with the bills amending the State Budget Act 2013 if they are to be considered and adopted before the bill is considered. As a result of the Committee's consideration of budgetary matters, he approved the decision to recommend a bill under number 3453 to be adopted on the basis and as a whole as a law taking into account the proposals made in the letter-based committee to the Supreme Council and relating to the alignment of budgetary indicators with the laws adopted for the consideration of the bill. Then the Committee on Budget Affairs, along with the Chief Legal Authority of the Supreme Council.
ParlaMint-UA_2013-10-24-m1.u99	Finish up.
ParlaMint-UA_2013-10-24-m1.u100	In the drafting of such a law, the necessary editorial and technical legal clarifications should be made to the text and addenda to the bill. Please support the Committee's decision on budgetary matters. Thank you.
ParlaMint-UA_2013-10-24-m1.u101	I beg you, are you willing to speak? Sign up for factions. Please, Freedom Union, National Deputy Sich.
ParlaMint-UA_2013-10-24-m1.u102	Please pass the word to the member of the Blavajk.
ParlaMint-UA_2013-10-24-m1.u103	Please, Deputy Blaujaki.
ParlaMint-UA_2013-10-24-m1.u104	Dear Mr. Head, honourable Members, today we want to re-create a precedent in the state where 2-3 million dollars are in treasury today. We want to count the work done for the express. We've already bought Hyundai today, we've built stadiums that are not needed in the city of Lviv, no one is serving them. Today, we have made roads that have been in the process of washing rain and washing snow in one year. And today we want to add 212 million dollars to our oligarchs once again to build. We would like to hear, and we have repeatedly addressed the Prime Minister, the Cabinet of Ministers, to hear a report about the work that was done. and the efficient use of the funds spent on Euro-2012. It was planned, once Mr. Kaskiv said: 120 billion -- it's going to be an investment. And public investment should have been 16 million of them. And when we got everything in circulation, the state investment would be 120 billion. And where the money went today we never heard a report. So we have today's proposal, enough debasing, enough to celebrate Ukraine just because we've already celebrated it all over the world, that you're a great specialist because a waste of state funds and a government budget. I'm asking you all to come to terms with money and not spend it where it came from, and all the more so today for the work that has already been done by such structures as the Altcom or the structures that are close to Mr. Kaskov today. We will be firm against this bill. Thank you.
ParlaMint-UA_2013-10-24-m1.u105	Thank you. Party of regions, national deputy Zac.
ParlaMint-UA_2013-10-24-m1.u106	Dear People's Deputies, please give the floor to Yaroslav Sukh.
ParlaMint-UA_2013-10-24-m1.u107	Jaroslav Suhi, please.
ParlaMint-UA_2013-10-24-m1.u108	Dear colleagues, I am addressing the national deputies of Ukraine who represent the interests of the city of Kiev. The point is that this project is going to unload the streets of those wild traffic jams, the traffic jams that keep our people from breathing fresh air. Why? You take it, you don't bark, you take the law and read it. It's about funding the project's technical and economic justification expenditure. The city's ring road around Kiev on the street The capital highway to the Kiev-Harkov-Dolžanska road on the Kiev-Borispol area, if you drove from Borispol, from the airport. This way to work. You could see in the morning what's happening on our roads on the South Bridge. This project allows us to unload and do what the Chinese are asking us to do. This bill needs to be adopted, supported in the first reading. Thank you.
ParlaMint-UA_2013-10-24-m1.u109	The Vitalia Klitschka faction, National Deputy Rizanenko.
ParlaMint-UA_2013-10-24-m1.u110	Deputy Rizanenko, strike faction. 97 constituency. I would like to immediately draw the attention of the honourable chairman to the fact that there are substantial remarks to this project and so please do not put it to the vote as a whole. As far as you're concerned. The bill proposes to provide funding for the payment of the insurance premium on the loan that is to be paid to the China Export Bank. So these things about creating air express, air express, are going to be, this loan is going to be aimed at buying goods, services in China. So this bill is going to provide jobs in China, not in Ukraine. At the same time, we have the Krukov Wagon Factory, which manufactures trains and can produce trains for the project. There's no problem for our enterprises to build an iron road, no problem for our businesses to make two bridge crossings. I would also like to draw the attention of honourable deputies to the fact that one of the three main functions of the state in the economy is to ensure the efficient use of resources. And the state should intervene only where these jobs cannot be done by the private sector. This project could be implemented by the private sector, it could be granted the right to build this path into a concession to private companies. And it wouldn't be necessary at such a difficult time, during a budget crisis, to use the budget. So I urge everyone to vote against this ineffective law. Thank you.
ParlaMint-UA_2013-10-24-m1.u111	The Fatherland faction, the national deputy of Yavorowski. Please.
ParlaMint-UA_2013-10-24-m1.u112	Vladimir Yavorowski, Troastina This is the Trinity that gave 64 percent in the presidential election for Julia Timoshenko. Dear colleagues, it seems to me that we live with you in a rich country and do not know where to spend our money. There's no payout, there's a huge debt to the budgeters today, once. No money is paid to black people, Afghans, many others. And we're going into parliament, including some kind of "financial insanity." I'm sorry who invented this lipo absolutely project. In order to "praise" this money? They built helicopter ranges on which no one sits, because someone explained to the President that a helicopter was more dangerous than driving a car. What are we doing? Trinity: 400,000 people live in the Trinity and there is no subway! How many years have people been promising that, like, here, someone thought to announce now, I don't know if you know that, they've announced a station name contest for the Trinity? There's not a single meter on the subway, and they've announced a contest for these today. How many can we lie to people already? Because Fatherland won't give a vote for this bill. What, such a big problem is getting to Borispol today? Who cares so much today? You're gonna have to put that money back together. We've acquired stadiums that stand empty today, absolutely, no one uses them, this waste, this financial madness. Stop already, eventually, stretching through the Supreme Council, having most of the laws, the laws, the corruption laws, in which to kick, roll, and so forth. We're not going to vote for this bill, and we're not going to advise you, and there's just some very fat faces behind it, waiting and wiping their hands like this money is going to get wet. We can't vote for him in any way.
ParlaMint-UA_2013-10-24-m1.u113	The discussion is over. May I have the attention of the people's deputies? One minute, the faction of the Ukrainian Company did not speak. Leader, you can come in here, committee.
ParlaMint-UA_2013-10-24-m1.u114	Simonenko, the Communist faction. I would like to invite my colleagues from words to action to move on. And as a result of this, I would like to make these recommendations. That 40 percent or more is the result of the system that you all support. And this is a disgrace to Ukraine. And the fact that you have to invest money for infrastructure development doesn't cause any doubt, but you do realize that you're fighting each other right now, between the two clans, who will have a bearing and directly use this money. So you're not thinking about building more quickly and creating the right conditions, but who can steal as much as possible is not a matter for the Supreme Council, it's a matter for the prosecutor. But I'd like to get your attention, and here's a letter from me. Since the district budget is designed to support public organizations, this amount is specific, in support of statutory activities of such a civil organization, the Lviv National Brotherhood, the UN-OPA from the State Budget, this is a letter from the Lviv District Council in my hands. So what's he talking about? When you talk about using money.
ParlaMint-UA_2013-10-24-m1.u115	Let me finish.
ParlaMint-UA_2013-10-24-m1.u116	When talking about the use of money, please do not steal from the state budget, including from citizens living in the Lviv region, to support the bandits and those who served the Germans. Thank you.
ParlaMint-UA_2013-10-24-m1.u117	Thank you. I'm also taking the lead on the committee. Geller Eugeny Borisovich, please.
ParlaMint-UA_2013-10-24-m1.u118	Thank you very much, Vladimir Vasilevich! Dear radio listeners, I would like to say that either Paul Rizanenko has not listened carefully to the committee or he is specifically trying to mislead our electorate. For the first time in history, when a contract was signed with the Chinese that 50 per cent would be performed by Ukrainian enterprises. That's the first one. And the second. Krukovska Wagon Construction Plant will be activated. So please don't speculate. Thank you.
ParlaMint-UA_2013-10-24-m1.u119	Thank you. May I have your attention, please? Honourable People's Deputies place the draft Act (No. 3453) amending the Ukrainian Act on the State Budget for Ukraine 2013 to be adopted as a basis. Please vote. [[18:17:31]] For 212 I'll put the vote back on the committee for a second first reading. Please vote in favour of draft Law 3453 to return to the committee for re-reading. People's deputies, please vote. [[18:18:12]] For 212 The decision is not taken. The law is rejected. I wish everyone good! And tomorrow we meet at 10 o'clock in the Supreme Council. I declare the evening meeting of the Supreme Council closed. And we're all in pain for Dynamo (Kyiv) today, don't forget! Igor Miroshnichenko, the word will not be like "Dinamo" (Kyiv) loses today. You won't! We're in pain for Dynamo!
