ParlaMint-UA_2013-09-03-m1.u1	Ladies and gentlemen, please prepare for registration. Please turn on the "Race" system. [[16:00:41]] There were 348 national deputies registered in the hall. I hereby declare the evening session of the Supreme Council open. I've been asked to speak to the national MP Bondarenko for a minute. Please turn on the microphone on on the stand.
ParlaMint-UA_2013-09-03-m1.u2	Dear friends! Vladimir Bondarenko, Yulia Block Timoshenko I asked that word because the question that we just discussed before the break was a very important aspect of the work of medical institutions, is the appointment of managers. So I asked this question a little earlier, and I have in my hands the answer of the deputy head of the Constitutional Court, Sergey Markianovich Vinokurov. Because many majors know that they are being approached by heads of agencies and say that we are being pressured or forced to sign contracts. Thus, according to the law that was passed earlier in regard to medical institutions, it has been in force since January 1, 2012, and so the answer from the Constitutional Court is yes, it is necessary to calm down all the leaders. Thus, it is mandatory to make contracts in the form of contracts only for persons appointed as health officials after 1 January 2012 and who do not extend to the directors of those institutions appointed before that date. I mean, everyone who worked on the basis of a labor contract until 1st.
ParlaMint-UA_2013-09-03-m1.u3	Let me finish.
ParlaMint-UA_2013-09-03-m1.u4	Who worked until January 1, 2012 can work quietly. If they don't want to make a contract, they may not, because this is a major deterioration that the Constitution prohibits, and the reverse act of the law that I'm talking about can't be distributed. Thus, health authorities who want and come to work after January 1, 2012, can contract, and all others can work under the old system. Thank you, Vladimir Vasilovich.
ParlaMint-UA_2013-09-03-m1.u5	Thank you. Draft Act No. 2101 on amending certain Ukrainian legislation (on agricultural development) is under consideration. Please vote, who is behind the brief procedure for dealing with this issue? Please vote. [[16:03:20]] For-123 Against 44, held – 6, did not vote 190. The decision is not taken. Let us consider the questions. Reported by national deputy Sabi Igor Mikhailovich. Please.
ParlaMint-UA_2013-09-03-m1.u6	Good afternoon, distinguished national MPs! Dear Vladimir Vasilovich, distinguished national deputies of Ukraine! Your view is on the draft Ukrainian Law on Amendments to Certain Legislative Acts (on Agriculture Development), submitted by the Ukrainian National Deputies (Registration No. 2101 of 27.03). 2013), assisted by me and the People’s Deputies of Miroshnichenko and Mirznýchnýchnýchný. In the last period, a number of legislative and regulatory acts have been adopted to preserve soil fertility. In particular, since January 1, 2013, certain provisions of the Ukrainian Law on Amendments to certain legislative acts of Ukraine (to preserve soil fertility) have become effective, according to which the use of land-based land-uses without projects by a land-based system that provides for eco-economic justification for harvesting and the sorting of land-uses over a hundred hectares has led to the imposition of large fines. At the same time, it does not solve the underlying problem but creates obstacles to agricultural activities. Bill 2101 was designed to develop Ukraine’s agriculture and to provide a legislative base for the conservation of soil fertility. The project proposes to amend section 10, paragraph 18, of the transitional provisions of the Ukrainian Code of Land, by which the development by owners and users of agricultural land with more than a hundred hectares of land projects foreseen in part four of article 22 of the Ukrainian Law is mandatory only if the activities of these owners and users lead to a deterioration of land conditions. In doing so, the responsibility for the absence of projects by the land administration, which ensures environmental and economic justification for sequestration and settlement, will also arise because of the deterioration of land conditions. Changes to article 211 of the Ukrainian Code of Land and part two of article 55 of the Ukrainian Law on Administrative Offences. The adoption of this law will contribute to the development of Ukraine’s agriculture and will ensure the implementation of the national agricultural programme. Thank you for your attention. Please support the bill.
ParlaMint-UA_2013-09-03-m1.u7	Thank you, sit down. Any questions for the reporter? Sign up. I don't think the committee's making a proposal to return the subject, and you're going to insist, no, let's take it. Got it. People's deputy Hanenko, please.
ParlaMint-UA_2013-09-03-m1.u8	May I have the floor of the MP to the Peacekeeper?
ParlaMint-UA_2013-09-03-m1.u9	Let's get the MP to the Peacekeeper.
ParlaMint-UA_2013-09-03-m1.u10	Alexander Mirny, the All-Ukrainian Freedom Union. Dear Igor Mikhailovich, I have a very simple question for you. Do you think that we can practice this question, which has now arisen in the order of the day, send back, for work or review, or do we still need to make a decision in this room right now on the relevant issue? Can we look calmly at the eyes of people who are working the earth and who are now suffering from certain imperfections in this law, in which you try to halt the action of those or other points? Thank you for your answer.
ParlaMint-UA_2013-09-03-m1.u11	Thank you for asking. Indeed, there is a serious problem that the Law on the Development of Technical Documentation for Exchanges has been adopted. Now people are starting to make people pay a lot of money for this technical documentation, but in principle, that doesn't warn people from the soil, because the quality of the soil depends not only on sifting, but it depends on a lot of parameters. In addition, the seismics that are now being used, the standards, they're from Soviet times, and of course the agrarian science has gone far ahead. So we're actually suggesting that we don't take people's fines off right now, that we postpone the fines until 1 January 2015. During this period, clear rules of fines, namely, on the ground, have been drawn up for reducing soil fertility. Now there's a scientific group that's developing the parameters that they're supposed to be on. Appropriately, the offer is if.
ParlaMint-UA_2013-09-03-m1.u12	The faction of the Party of the Regions, National Deputy Zac.
ParlaMint-UA_2013-09-03-m1.u13	Dear Vladimir Vasilevich, please pass the word to Chechtovo Mikhail.
ParlaMint-UA_2013-09-03-m1.u14	Please, Chechetov, National Deputy.
ParlaMint-UA_2013-09-03-m1.u15	Dear rapporteur, we have carefully read the bill. And I would like to say that most deputies fear that, after its adoption, the possibility of controlling land use will be significantly reduced. [[B in m in s a l in]] And when it comes to land, it's probably better to see that we don't really lose control here a few times. Therefore, in this situation, I think that it may be possible to send him to the finalization in order to dispel all doubts that arise in the sessional room. Thank you.
ParlaMint-UA_2013-09-03-m1.u16	Thank you.
ParlaMint-UA_2013-09-03-m1.u17	Do you understand Russian? Answer me.
ParlaMint-UA_2013-09-03-m1.u18	I demand a translator!
ParlaMint-UA_2013-09-03-m1.u19	I beg you, the Fatherland faction, the Tomenko People's Deputy.
ParlaMint-UA_2013-09-03-m1.u20	Vladimir Vasilovich, please give the floor to my colleague, Vladimir Yavorowski, who is even more concerned about Ukrainian peasants and Ukrainian villages than I am.
ParlaMint-UA_2013-09-03-m1.u21	Pass it to me, please.
ParlaMint-UA_2013-09-03-m1.u22	Vladimir Yavorowski, Trinity, Fatherland. Dear colleague, dear reporter! I want to know if this law of yours that we're going to support (I mean the faction of Fatherland) is going to solve this huge problem. Today, there are a few cultures in Ukraine -- bloodsuckers I'd call -- that's sunflower, that's, let's say, rape that sucks all the juices out of the earth. And we can live to see that in fact our one of the best countries in the world can become the worst. How will your bill affect you? Here, I understand that there are some important things, but I want to hear from you very clearly: it will help to dampen this huge problem that Ukraine is facing today. Thank you.
ParlaMint-UA_2013-09-03-m1.u23	Thank you for asking. At this point, unfortunately, this law, which has been passed, does not protect the soil, but merely ensures that agricultural producers of money are sucked out. We're actually talking about what needs to be changed, about sunflowers and other cultures. If a person leased land, at first the fertility was like that, and on condition that a year or two later the fertility dropped, then a person should be fined. A normal master, if he came to earth, really, to work, he would do anything to keep the fertility of the soil from being lost. At the moment, it is simply a corrupt scheme to suck out agricultural producers of money.
ParlaMint-UA_2013-09-03-m1.u24	Thank you. Have a seat. Time's up. I ask for a report from the head of the Committee on Agricultural Policy and Land Relations, Mr. Grigory Mikolaiovich Kaletnik. I'm happy, Gregory Mikolaiovich, to take the question off the table. There's no time to report. Report.
ParlaMint-UA_2013-09-03-m1.u25	Dear Vladimir Vasilovich! Dear fellow national MPs! In your view, a draft Ukrainian Law amending certain legislative acts (as regards agricultural development) is proposed. The amendments proposed by the drafters to chapter 10 of the “Transitional Positions” of the Ukrainian Land Code provide for the extension of the project to the first of January 2015 through the development of land-use projects that provide environmental and economic justifications for transports and settlement arrangements. The obligation to produce such projects for owners and users of agricultural land is greater than 100 hectares [100 ha]. This is going to be a condition of land degradation. However, to date, the Ukrainian Law on Amendments to certain Ukrainian laws on the Conservation of Soil Fertility has already been enacted. The amendments to article 55 of the Code of Administrative Violations provide that responsibility for the use of agricultural land for agricultural production is to be established only on the basis of the deterioration of land conditions. The Committee therefore agrees with the conclusion of the Chief Scientific and Expert Office and also believes that the adoption of the proposed changes completely undermines the relevance and obligation to develop projects with a land system that provides for eco-economic justification for migration and arrangement. In addition, it should be noted that the establishment of land degradation in accordance with article 207 of the Ukrainian Land Code and article 20 of the Ukrainian Land Administration Act is not the basis for the development of land-use documentation, but rather, in general, the removal of the rights to continue to be used and used. Moreover, the bill does not contain effective measures to implement it. In particular, the bill does not define the criteria that determine the deterioration of land status, the persons who will establish that fact and the order. In order to establish soil conditions, we believe that initial quality and quantity of soil fertility should be determined for the land in question, both before the land is used and at the time the land degradation is established. Thus, after considering the bill, the committee considers it necessary to return the bill to the subject of the legislative initiative, since it has a good point, but it needs to be prescribed so as not to be able to exhaust Ukrainian lands today, and then, when they are exhausted, it will be too late to accept any measure. Thank you for your attention. Please support the committee's decision and return it to the authors. Thank you.
ParlaMint-UA_2013-09-03-m1.u26	Thank you. Is there a question for the deputies? None. [[B in m in s a l in]] To vote early, to speak. I'm asking you to sign up for the factions. Please, National Deputy Illenko.
ParlaMint-UA_2013-09-03-m1.u27	May I have the floor of the People's Deputy of Peace.
ParlaMint-UA_2013-09-03-m1.u28	Please report to the People's Deputy of Peace. Please.
ParlaMint-UA_2013-09-03-m1.u29	Alexander Mirny, the All-Ukrainian Freedom Union. Dear Vladimir Vasilovich, I am very grateful that we have asked such an important question for consideration on the full program, because all that even Mr. Kaletnik said. It's really responsible for the reality, sorry, for the tautology. But this law was not intended to make any changes. This law was aimed at, the bill, stopping the vacchanal that is happening today because, according to existing legislation, under this law, which we are trying, in separate parts, to stop in order to develop together either a party of regions, or Communists, anyone to draft a normal bill, the land is not protected under this law, because there is no: firstly, a control system, secondly, a system of assessment, thirdly, a system of punishment. The paper on which the sifting is written, printed on the printer, does not protect the earth in any way, I emphasize. And I can prove to you that, in the absence of time, I will not do this, that the earth can be destroyed, having in my arms a seismic and holding on to the seismic thing that is written. But it's right that we have to evaluate the state of the earth, if a man took the earth at 60, he has to keep it at least at 60. And that's right. Where it's written. It's not there. So we're very clearly, very simply proposing, stopping the individual provisions of the existing law and developing the law and fast implementing it, because what's going on today. From 36 to 60 dollars per hectare, people come in who don't know what a sum is, who don't understand what a state of soil is, including a physical mechanical one, who don't understand what the amount of precipitation is, and how it breaks by the months, and they come and say, "You have to do as we say." I'm asking a simple question, if I have osmia wheat in my sieve and it's frozen out, if I can plant corn instead of it in spring, I say, "I can't! Because I don't have that in my sieve. I have to go, take my leave, and only after I took my leave and paid for it can I plant corn. Sorry, the situation in agriculture today is so critical that any defeat is a crime against Ukraine. And we can see that these are really battles. So please, there's no politics here, there's common sense here, which is mostly in this Supreme Council. Let's take it in the first reading and let's do some movement together. Thank you for your attention.
ParlaMint-UA_2013-09-03-m1.u30	The faction of the Party of the Regions, National MP Smithuch. Please.
ParlaMint-UA_2013-09-03-m1.u31	Dear Vladimir Vasilovich, distinguished national MPs, what our colleague Mirny said in his report, is of course that many of the issues he raised are problematic in Ukraine today in the agricultural sector. And of course, the fertility of the land that we hope to preserve for the future generation is a huge task for us, including the national MPs. And, of course, if someone said that enough regulation is in place today in order to preserve the fertility of the land, I would also agree as a member of an agrarian committee, which is not enough. But I ask myself, ‘ Do we solve this problem by the law that has been passed? I'll be sure to tell you, no. So when we considered this bill on the committee, we proposed it. Of course, the committee finds that there is a problem. Of course, this problem needs to be addressed in a comprehensive way by measures that are really measures rather than partial deferrals or non-derogation. Unfortunately, in recent times, when we don't know what to do or can't approach this issue in a comprehensive way, we're solving the issue in this way: let's defer, let's move, let's engage or something. So I would consider it appropriate to support the point of view of the profiling committee, which says that this problem is that this problem needs to be addressed in a comprehensive manner. And I would therefore invite the authors of this bill, along with the committee, to consider in particular the issue of preserving the fertility of the land so that, as we are temporarily on this wonderfully beneficial land, we can save for future generations or even improve this land, which is, because unfortunately, it does not always happen to us in practice in this regard. So I call on the people's deputies: we don't reject this problem, we don't delay it, but we're talking about a complex solution. And please support my point of view to bring this bill back to work. Thank you for your attention.
ParlaMint-UA_2013-09-03-m1.u32	Thank you. It's a faction of the Company of Ukraine, the People's Deputy of Gubar.
ParlaMint-UA_2013-09-03-m1.u33	Victor Hubbar, Communist Party of Ukraine. I want to agree with just saying that there is really a problem today with soil fertility, but this bill really doesn't solve this problem. I want to say that the bill does not say in any way who or how it will determine whether or not the land has deteriorated. And the faction will not vote in favour of this bill, because we believe that the problem that exists today cannot be solved in any way by this bill. Thank you.
ParlaMint-UA_2013-09-03-m1.u34	It's the Vitalia Cliche faction, Rosenko.
ParlaMint-UA_2013-09-03-m1.u35	Please pass the word to Sergey Kaplin.
ParlaMint-UA_2013-09-03-m1.u36	Let's give it to Sergei Kaplin.
ParlaMint-UA_2013-09-03-m1.u37	Some speakers, namely the majority, the Party of Regions and Communists, have silenced the fact that during the last few years the process of seizing Ukrainian land with oligarchs and the political forces sponsored by the oligarchs has been dynamic. We have to tell a simple Ukrainian peasant today, as well as any tax payer, an ordinary Ukrainian citizen, that the oligarchs and those who are being molested should be reminded of this is article 13 of the Ukrainian Constitution, which clearly says, "Obligation obliges." You, my lady, are obliged to preserve the Ukrainian land that belongs to the Ukrainian people and that is the last thing left of the Ukrainian people. You, my lady, are obliged to leave Ukraine and its land to our grandchildren and children. Therefore, the political party SHOCK will be consecutive this time and the following bills, which will be considered in the context of the protection of Ukrainian land for the Ukrainian people, will stand up for the position that will mean the next. We will beat those who will take this land, we will beat those who will add land to the ground, we will beat those who will take what today is 40 percent of the country's gross national product, which is seven percent of the retail trade, which is the hope and salvation of our nation from political and economic bankruptcy. Thank you.
ParlaMint-UA_2013-09-03-m1.u38	Thank you. The Fatherland faction. Catherinechuk passed it on to Ivan Kirilenko.
ParlaMint-UA_2013-09-03-m1.u39	Dear colleagues, I want to translate into clear language what's going on in the hall and what's going to be voted on. Dear friends, first thing I want to say is that the law that is amended unfortunately the letter and the spirit don't match. In the letter, the law to which amendments are made is good, and in a spirit, it is not too bad. In our years of independence, we lost huge numbers of headquarters and lost much of the production of animal production. The land has been reduced accordingly under feeding cultures, the sacred place is not empty, and this gap has been filled by two cultures. The first crop of corn and that's understandable, because the 60 million tons of corn that the United States has put on export is now being converted into bioethanol. Minus 60 million is the need for an African continent with billions of people. And the second culture is sunflower or rape. Why Sunflower or Rape? Europe has acquired the power to convert rape into biodiesel, taking care of the environment and the environment, and raw materials are not available in Ukraine. In Ukraine, in turn, 16 million tons of oil and sunflower manufacturing companies were built, and we grew it 7, 8, 9, 11 million tons. Do you understand what's going on? And the third reason is the main one. Grain crops bread, Ukrainian bread, unfortunately, look at the price policy, look at the role of the state, this year despite the record yield, despite the demand for grain in the world market in Ukraine, I am responsibly claiming from this rostrum, a wasteful one. Grains in Ukraine are being bought at a cost or at a cost today. What should the manufacturer do? We have to pay for the pies, we have to pay the taxes, we have to pay the pension fund, we have to pay the salary, and then we need the resources to start the solstice. And then they go for a violation, and the agronomists go for a misdemeanor, and unfortunately, they go for a misdemeanor. The legislator has decided in this regard to regulate everything by administrative measures, not economic measures, without supporting the world's main food culture and Ukraine's wheat, but legislative and administrative regulation of the issue, to force the growing of what is today, unfortunately, to be harmful. So the law, in large numbers, is anti-corruption, because the author and some speakers rightly said that it all comes down to propaganda. The changeover plan is made not by 40,000 agronomists working in agriculture, but by commercial structures, their task is to seal and take away money, and there's no plan for a sum of fines. The fines may be imposed daily, monthly and so forth, gone, gone. Guys, this has to be over, we've got to back this bill up and work on it to settle this issue.
ParlaMint-UA_2013-09-03-m1.u40	Thank you. Is there still a need to discuss? Is it? None. Then let me give you one minute I'll give the People's Deputy a moment and we'll be clear. I'm asking you why you're writing yourself up, you're the one who raised your hand. But go forth, and lift up your hand, who is against it?
ParlaMint-UA_2013-09-03-m1.u41	Oleg Lazko, Radical Party. Dear Vladimir Vasilovich! We are considering a full-procedure bill which means they have the right to speak out to all the national deputies and the Rules for three minutes, not one minute. So please.
ParlaMint-UA_2013-09-03-m1.u42	Don't waste your time.
ParlaMint-UA_2013-09-03-m1.u43	Volodymyr Vasilovich, please record so that any national MP who wishes has the opportunity to speak. As far as the bill is concerned. And please give me three minutes. In terms of the bill, I think there's no doubt in this room that agriculture is the kind of locomotive that's going to pull out the domestic economy and our country. This is because of agriculture, thanks to our best nation in the world, the Ukrainian people have a prospect. Sadly, though, it is not that policy that is being pursued in relation to agriculture today. The farmer, who then grows his produce with blood, is unable to sell it, the peasant cannot take cheap loans, the peasants are smothering taxes, the peasants are smothering Chinese potatoes, Egyptian Greeks, and any other gossip that we can grow in ourselves, and the villagers would be able to feed their families. They're taking schools to the peasants today.
ParlaMint-UA_2013-09-03-m1.u44	Two more minutes, please.
ParlaMint-UA_2013-09-03-m1.u45	Villagers today are deprived of the opportunity to teach their children, to treat older ones. There are no pharmacies in the villages today, no kindergartens, no hospitals and no FAPs, no clubs, no lights, no water, no gas, no roads. And that's why our heroic peasants, who, despite the decline in the social sphere, lack of public attention, are still growing that product, feeding Ukraine, we have to thank you. And so what I'm saying is that in order to raise agriculture, in order for it to really give, feed Ukraine and feed the world, we have to settle the question of paying for pies. Today, people get a penny of rent for pies and instead of living money, rotten grains, which chickens do not eat, which is three times as expensive as they give to people on pies. Today, people cannot have their inheritance built with their own hands, the house cannot be constructed in the village, and 15 or 20 thousand dollars must be paid for that house. People can't make pies. There some shout that they will give in hand for stretching the earth, so you offer to sell the land. That is why it is imperative that the Constitution explicitly prohibit the sale of land, for today the oligarchs will buy that land, and tomorrow our children will walk on this earth with batres. We have today created latifundists who process millions of acres of land instead of supporting farmers and giving them cheap loans and giving them the opportunity to work, not tens of families that millions of hectares and billions of dollars go into their pockets. Social sphere, I've already said, banning imports or radical restrictions on access to Ukraine, banning sales of land, support for farmers, tax cuts, cheap loans -- this is what the village needs. And these are the tasks that the government has to do, and the government doesn't. Because you want one of the peasants ahead to the cemetery, to take the land, to drive people to the cities, to create praetoriums, to make reservations. That's it.
ParlaMint-UA_2013-09-03-m1.u46	Thank you, sit down. Are they still willing to speak on this issue? You don't? None. I'd like a closing statement, please. Reporter, is there a report? Please. No, there isn't. Please.
ParlaMint-UA_2013-09-03-m1.u47	Ladies and gentlemen, I would like to emphasize once again that the purpose of this law is to stop the struggles that are now in the country. Because as long as they're developing these summations, as long as they're actually using these bluffs to collect money from people. We're ready for the second reading of those items that don't set you up. But the main point is to stop fighting in the country. We all know what the situation is now in agriculture, especially this year, what prices. And they're also, these prices, because of what? Because the government, because the authorities say that we have huge crops, although not really because this year's fertility is much lower than it has been in the last few years. Because of this, traders have dropped the price, and now even though low prices, despite rising prices for protection products, fertilizers, and more people are collected, collected, and collected. We understand that this is a government policy because there's something to be done about the budget. But then we have to start by giving up our Mercedes, our offices, our personal elevators, and our budget, not our agriculture. I call again on the factions of the majority, to vote in the first reading for this bill, what we don't do is we throw out in the second, but most importantly, we stop fighting in the village right now because of what's called seismics. Because these battles are just to raise money, but not to protect Ukrainian land. This is another lie from power and government. Thank you.
ParlaMint-UA_2013-09-03-m1.u48	Thank you. Ladies and gentlemen, please prepare for the vote. I am voting on the draft Law (Registration No. 2101) amending some Ukrainian legislation on agricultural development as a basis. People's deputies, please vote. [[16:35:39]] For-136 Against – one, held – 29, not voted – 212. The decision is not taken. Factions please: Region Party 7, Fatherland 54, Vitalia Klicka Hit 31, Freedom 32, Company zero, non-fractional 12. There's a committee proposal.
ParlaMint-UA_2013-09-03-m1.u49	I don't understand. Let's make a decision, I'll give you my word for it. Let's take the law or not. I have to put it to a vote. I am voting on the draft Law (No. 2101) amending some Ukrainian legislation on agricultural development with the following proposal: to return the subject to the right of legislative initiative for further development. People's deputies, please vote. [[16:37:09]] For 134 Against - 2. We're holding on to 36. There was no vote – 211. The decision is not taken. The factions. Region Party 9, Parentage Party 52, Vitalia Klicka hit 327, Freedom 31, Company 0, Postfractional 10. I beg of you, People's Deputy Simonenko, the Replica.
ParlaMint-UA_2013-09-03-m1.u50	Dear colleagues, this vote just showed who's worth it. Those idle bells, which, when they gave fiery speeches, spoke of having a principled position and that they would not vote for it, immediately voted, accusing the Company. The company has shown that it stands up for the problem — that the land cannot be a commodity, cannot be a subject, for example, for sale and so forth. The Company's faction doesn't vote. And the guy who was talking about the Company. It was the whole faction that voted. That's the answer, our esteemed radio audiences, our television audiences, our respectable voters. When hit on something, it always remains the same.
ParlaMint-UA_2013-09-03-m1.u51	He didn't call anyone! He didn't call it a name or a faction. And whoever whistles, out there, behind the door, will go now. [[B in m in s a l in]] A draft law is under consideration. He didn't call his last name! [[B in m in s a l in]] Draft Law (No.2022a) amending the Rules of the Supreme Council of Ukraine (for the preliminary consideration of draft laws on committees) is under consideration. 2022a Amendments to the Rules of the Supreme Council of Ukraine (for the preliminary consideration of draft laws on committees). How will we deal with this issue internally? Is it full? [[B in m in s a l in]] Short cut? I'll bet you a reduced vote. People's deputies, please identify yourselves. Please vote. [[16:39:53]] For-163 Against 78, held – 8, not voting – 134. Decision taken. The factions. Reported to the chairman of the Committee on Rules, Deputy Ethics and Security of the Supreme Council of Ukraine, Vladimir Volodymyrovich Makeinko. Please.
ParlaMint-UA_2013-09-03-m1.u52	Dear Vladimir Vasilovich! Dear National Deputies! Your opinion is proposed by the draft Ukrainian Act amending the Ukrainian Supreme Council Rules on the preliminary examination of draft laws, drafts, other acts on the committees, in particular articles 93 and 145 of the Supreme Council Rules of Ukraine, by 2022a of 16 May 2013, submitted by the Ukrainian People's Deputies to the Committee on Rules, Deputy Ethics and Security of the Supreme Council of Ukraine. The change is to simplify the procedure for the committee’s consideration of draft laws. This is to ensure that not all of the registered bills, drafts, other acts that are currently before the Committee on the Rules of Procedure for the preparation of expert conclusions are drawn up and registered in accordance with the requirements of the law, the Rules and the legal acts adopted accordingly, but only those that come before the Committee at the direction of the Supreme Council of Ukraine, the Head of the Supreme Council of Ukraine, the request of the Main Committee, the Head of the Committee or the First Deputy Head of the Committee or of its own initiative. I would like to draw your attention to the fact that the committee at its meeting on 15 May 2013 considered the proposals and unanimously supported them, and decided to recommend to the Supreme Council of Ukraine as a whole. At the same time, I would like to take into account that on June 9, 2013, Act 224-7 came into force, according to which part of the first article of the Rules is supplemented by a text which provides that all the bills registered are also sent to a committee to which the issue of combating corruption is referred. Therefore, I would like to support a new edition of the first and third parts of article 93 of the Rules, taking into account these changes. That's the part of the first after the word "in accordance with the law that regulates."
ParlaMint-UA_2013-09-03-m1.u53	Let me finish.
ParlaMint-UA_2013-09-03-m1.u54	In the first part, after the words "in accordance with the law governing budgetary relations", add: "a committee whose knowledge belongs to the issue of combating corruption to prepare an expert conclusion on its compliance with anti-corruption legislation." And in part three, after the words "in line with the budget," add the words "the fight against corruption" to the text. Please support the bill and accept it as a whole. Subject to highlighted completions. I would like to draw your attention once again, dear colleagues, that the committee has supported these changes unanimously. Thank you for your attention.
ParlaMint-UA_2013-09-03-m1.u55	Thank you. Do you want to talk about it? Yes. Please sign up for factions. Please, National Deputy Bondarenko, Fatherland faction.
ParlaMint-UA_2013-09-03-m1.u56	Vladimir Bondarenko, Fatherland faction. Of course, the bill that is being introduced will remove the tension that arose on the committee when dozens of bills come in daily. And the committee can't determine what's the main thing, what's the first thing, what's the second thing. For example, in the Committee on State Building and Self-Government, a large number of projects are coming through the subcommittee that I am leading from electoral legislation. But because of certain political motives, a large number of them are there after six months or more, and there is not enough time in the Supreme Council to consider and appoint more than a hundred rural, rural, city councils, including, for example, the capital of Ukraine in the city of Kiev. So if there is a political orientation in the committee, then he chooses what to look at and what not. Therefore, it is not simply necessary to determine what is not to be considered or what is not to be considered or what is to be done, but, above all, to establish a clear regulation. If the document came to the committee, it should be considered at a certain time to the Supreme Council either rejected or approved. It cannot be that he has been on committees there for years, as is done today in many committees or political reasons. That is why we must accept this but continue to improve. Yes, in this way we have many different problems to consider in this Rules, but at least some of them need to be addressed. And that's why today our faction will support this bill. But once again, we need to regulate more clearly the process of lawmaking, including planning it, including regulating the time and time frame for the consideration of bills and other acts. Thank you.
ParlaMint-UA_2013-09-03-m1.u57	The faction of the Ukrainian Company, National Deputy Peter Cibenko, please.
ParlaMint-UA_2013-09-03-m1.u58	Thank you. The Communist faction, the head of the Committee on Social Policy and the work of Peter Cibenko Dear colleagues, respected citizens of Ukraine! The faction of the Ukrainian Company will support the bill. But on occasion, taking this opportunity, and given that today, Vladimir Vasilovich, when you open the session, you've devoted quite a lot of time to committee work, I want to make some thoughts. First of all, I would like to say with pleasure that in the last session of the Committee on Social Policy and the work that I have the honour to lead has not ruined any sessions. We have considered over 100 questions. But the meeting room of the Supreme Council, unfortunately, only went through every fourth question. I'm being teased by the committee's colleagues, saying that, Peter Stepanovich, we're looking at it, but let them pass through the hall. And the second question. I'm here to reinforce the importance of committees in the work of the Supreme Council of Ukraine. To my profound belief, the legislative process is like a bird with two wings without any of these wings will not fly the legislative process. I mean, one wing is the political component, the faction, and the other, the professional part, is the committee. But I want Vladimir Vasilovich, that's how we deal with the same issue on the Conciliation Council. What I mean. We have five factions on the Conciliation Board today, three-quarters of the time, and one-quarter of the committees are taken together. Let's fix this mess together. I think it's our shared task, and let's think about it and work. Thank you.
ParlaMint-UA_2013-09-03-m1.u59	Thank you. Freedom Union, national deputy of Schweik. Please.
ParlaMint-UA_2013-09-03-m1.u60	Igor Schwaika, faction of the All-Ukrainian Freedom Union. The Society, in fact, at the committee meeting, we considered this issue and it received support. But what I would like to pay attention to. For one thing, we are in 93 for this, and we are making a second change in the previous session. These changes are chaotic in nature, so we include Euro-integration issues here, then we include the anti-corruption component, then we take the Rules Committee as a committee through which all the bills have necessarily been passed and we come to a conclusion accordingly. Such chaoticity in the distribution of the drafting of bills through committees in the Supreme Council of Ukraine is unacceptable. What was the situation at the Rules Committee, headed by Vladimir MacKeenko, who had just reported the bill. More than a thousand bills that have come into force to meet the requirements of article 93 are under consideration and are simply not included in the agenda of the committee’s day session, they are not considered, they are not evaluated, even though the responsible first representatives of the committee’s head or members of the committee, the national deputies, have prepared these conclusions. But for our colleagues from the Party of Regions instead of voting for a shrivelling bill that would deprive our Ukrainian peasants of their sigma, they would never come together to even vote for bills that are called just registration numbers. The situation is as follows. The "Freedom" faction of the All-Ukrainian Union has decided not to support this bill, to return it to the subject and we will propose to return to the work and to introduce a new 93 so that it will not go chaotically from month to month. Thank you.
ParlaMint-UA_2013-09-03-m1.u61	It's Vitaly Call's Faction. Capplin, will you pass the word to whom? Okay. Turn on the microphone.
ParlaMint-UA_2013-09-03-m1.u62	Dear Vladimir Vasilovich, distinguished colleagues, respected citizens, really keeping the Rules in the walls of the Supreme Council is a guarantee of stable work. And this is the guarantee of an effective and effective adoption of regulations for the benefit of our citizens. And when the Rules follow, Vladimir Vasilovich, we welcome you to your actions, Vladimir Vasilovich, most of my report will be directed to you, I have great respect for you, but pay attention.
ParlaMint-UA_2013-09-03-m1.u63	Don't criticize me.
ParlaMint-UA_2013-09-03-m1.u64	No, I'm not criticizing. Once again, I reiterate that the great guarantee of Parliament's success depends on the concerted work of Parliament, which is at the heart of the Supreme Council's Rules. And what you've demonstrated today is the need for the first person to be present at the meetings of the Supreme Council, the fact that you're giving your word is a strong factor, and you'll see that performance will increase. It's about the bill. I'm sorry, I was one of those committee colleagues who supported this bill. Because I personally reported 200-300 questions. I don't mind, we've all worked together. But look, and you've already come to the point that committee work needs to be optimized as Head of the Supreme Council in order to make the performance work. And it's not just on the regulatory committee, it's on everyone. But I want to make a few warnings. First. Now, look, I think the Conciliation Council has already raised the issue of the need to comply with the Rules in some very serious, very important questions. For example, the President introduced a draft amendment to the Constitution to strengthen the guarantee of the independence of judges. An important bill is a rhetoric that can be Euro-Integrated if we open the envelope and still make it Euro-Integrated. But I'm drawing your attention to the impact faction. Vladimir Vasilovich, I address you first. That's the right of legislative initiative. I ask you to continue a few moments while you were busy so I can finish.
ParlaMint-UA_2013-09-03-m1.u65	Give me a minute.
ParlaMint-UA_2013-09-03-m1.u66	The right of legislative initiative under the Constitution, honourable colleagues, belongs to the National Deputies, the President of Ukraine, the Government of Ukraine, the National Bank. Regrettably, this draft act, as well as several others, is signed, the draft law itself is initiated by the President, and all the additions that are an integral part of it are part of the legislative initiative signed by the President’s advisers. I'm sorry, sometimes consulting assistants, some deputies, help us write acts, but no consulting assistant has the right to sign an explanatory note or a comparative table, no, but a draft regulatory act. And in this case, nevertheless, it is an element of respect for Parliament and I ask in the section of our decision today, the strike faction insists that you give the task tomorrow on the regulatory committee to consider this issue, and if this is confirmed, then immediately remove this inadequacy. Thank you, Vladimir Vasilovich.
ParlaMint-UA_2013-09-03-m1.u67	Okay. [[Applause]] Yeah, did all those who wanted to do it? [[B in m in s a l in]] Give me a minute, please, National Deputy Knazevitch. Please and we'll vote.
ParlaMint-UA_2013-09-03-m1.u68	Thank you, Vladimir Vasilovich, we really need a bill and we'll support it for sure, but let's assume that only the beginning of this path. Because what we're actually doing is separating the regulatory committee and simplifying its work. So let me tell you that in the list that the regulatory committee read to you today, dozens of committees, we don't plan on making any decisions yet, and under the Rules we make this kind of exception. If this is just the beginning to improve this procedure, it is possible that we should vote now. If this is all over, it's just, frankly, it doesn't solve the question essentially. One more. I would like to remind you that according to article 94, those conclusions that provide the committees are in fact the basis for you, Vladimir Vasilovich, to return these bills to the session hall without consideration. And unfortunately, sometimes it doesn't always happen, and you do, frankly, go back to the committee, because someone probably recommends something else to you. If the decision is already made, then.
ParlaMint-UA_2013-09-03-m1.u69	Ladies and gentlemen, I ask you to prepare for the vote. Alexander Sergiyovich, please tell the MPs, because he'll run and break his leg in the Supreme Council, it won't be beautiful. I would like to vote on the draft Act (Registration No. 2022a) amending the Rules of the Supreme Council of Ukraine on the preliminary examination of bills in committees for adoption as a basis and as a whole. People's deputies, please vote. [[16:55:49]] For 290 Against the 31st, held-3, didn't vote 63. Decision taken. The factions. Region Party – 171, Fatherland – 47, Vitalia Klicka – 30, Freedom – 0, Ukrainian Company – 32, non-fractional – 10. Ladies and gentlemen, there are two draft laws, number 2488 and 2489. The committee's asking me to postpone these laws so that the committee can still work, so I'm putting these two draft laws aside. [[B in m in s a l in]] Don't shout. The draft law is being considered (registration number). People's deputy of Switzerland, you were just speaking up and saying, "I support the Rules Act, and you didn't vote." Then why are you yelling? What are you yelling at? [[B in m in s a l in]] I say again, the committee asks for work, let them work and make an offer. I am looking forward to a draft Act (No.1095) amending some of the laws of Ukraine on strengthening social protection for persons with disabilities and the disabled of the Group I. How will we view this social law? I'm betting on a vote like you, and you're asking for a brief vote, please. [[16:58:13]] For-174 Against 72, held – 6, not voting – 133. Decision taken. So I'm asking you to turn on Valery Mikhailovich Suškević's microphone, the head of the Committee on Pensioners, Veterans and Disabled Persons. Please.
ParlaMint-UA_2013-09-03-m1.u70	Thank you, Vladimir Vasilovich! Dear colleagues, I would like to draw your attention to a very socially significant draft bill of the Act on the Strengthening of Social Protection for Persons with Disabilities and Disabled Persons of the Group I. I would like to remind you, dear colleagues, that during the previous session, you and I in this session hall adopted the Law on Amendments to Article 18 of the Law on State Assistance for Families with Children. And it was about some support for those families that took care of and cared for children with disabilities, that is, they took a disabled child into a foreign family. And there you and I have supported a measure of support and an increase in the material payout for a disabled child from 6 to 18 years of age, and in some ways raised the minimum amount to 2 000 800, a maximum of 3 000 300. But I want to remind you, unfortunately, that the state and I have forgotten about families where a disabled child is, and there are parents, that is, a disabled child being brought up in their family, and there the state has abandoned these parents. I want to remind you that children with disabilities in their own families are receiving state aid for 894 bracelets, compared to 3,300, as is provided for the upbringing of a disabled child in a foreign family where they were taken into custody. It's an absolute injustice when children with disabilities and orphans are combined with the same social status, but the difference that the state makes to those who raise these children with disabilities three times as many as three times where.
ParlaMint-UA_2013-09-03-m1.u71	Let me finish.
ParlaMint-UA_2013-09-03-m1.u72	Volodymyr Vasilovich, I want to remind you that I am acting as the author of the bill and as the chairman of the committee, i.e. I have four minutes.
ParlaMint-UA_2013-09-03-m1.u73	Give me two more minutes.
ParlaMint-UA_2013-09-03-m1.u74	So I want to remind you that it's this bill that we're kind of, I would like to emphasize, in a way, that we're increasing the number of children with disabilities in group I. "A" subgroups increase state aid. And, dear colleagues, I'm drawing your attention to children with the most difficult forms of disability, or subgroup "A." This bill is not populist in nature, it is completely socially significant in terms of very difficult children. The first position is this bill by one of the parents or the adoptive parent or guardian of the allowance for the care of the disabled child of subgroup "A" is assigned regardless of the fact of work and teaching. I mean, Mom can work, she can learn, but she can get government help. And we also support the disabled of subgroup "A", the heavy invalids. This bill does not completely eliminate the difference between those children in other people’s families and those in their own family, but it does. I went to this option, well, for a purpose. Taking into account some tension in the state budget situation. A bill for a child who is in his own family, a disabled child, will pay 2,000 dollars, so we still have to make that difference by one thousand dollars. This is the first step towards equalizing the status of these children. The Science and Experimental Authority believes that this bill can be adopted in the first reading and on the basis. And our committee, the Committee on Pensioners, Veterans, Disabled Persons, which I lead, has also accepted unanimously. All factions voted in favour of supporting this bill, which deals with children with the most difficult forms of disability in their own families. Let's support the mothers who have these children, and let the state support their ability to raise these children. Please be supportive.
ParlaMint-UA_2013-09-03-m1.u75	Do you want to talk about it? Yes. I'm asking the faction to sign up. I beg you, the Fatherland faction, the People's Deputy Kirilenko Viacheslav.
ParlaMint-UA_2013-09-03-m1.u76	Viacheslav Kirilenko, Fatherland faction, Party for Ukraine. First of all, I'm grateful to my colleague Suškević for this bill, because the legislation that applies to people with limited physical capabilities is very complicated, and it has a lot of these contrives that don't allow this problem to be solved at a national level. And that's where the point is to put the fires out. Now, the profiler and colleague Suškević suggests that one of these fires be extinguished when the burdens are, for example, those parents who have a disabled child and also a first group, as well as subgroups "A", but for example, they're learning somewhere, they have a scholarship or they're working, they have a small salary and they're already reducing this allowance for taking care of this child. And this is essentially the social function of the state to help those people who are in this kind of trouble of life. So you don't have to look at whether your father works or your mother, or your guardian, or your caregiver doesn't work, or whether you have to increase the payments. Moreover, the bill deals only with children with disabilities in the first group. So this is the question that needs to be shown right now here in the session room. And in general, I think that this is our conversation about the European Union and our affairs about the European Union, which is something that is necessary, for a long time and a long time. But when in a country there will be respect for people with limited physical capacity, when there will be indifference around, when a person in a wheelchair will feel not abandoned, but for society and cocaine, then the European Union will have us, and not when, in principle, the billion-dollar authorities do, and the people with disabilities have no reason to increase the allowance, let's show that, even though this vote now shows that there are the funds that this law provides for to make life easier for children with disabilities, let's vote for this law. Thank you for your attention.
ParlaMint-UA_2013-09-03-m1.u77	Freedom Union, National Deputy Osuhovski.
ParlaMint-UA_2013-09-03-m1.u78	Please pass the word to Zelik.
ParlaMint-UA_2013-09-03-m1.u79	Pass it on, please.
ParlaMint-UA_2013-09-03-m1.u80	Dear colleagues, today this bill was to be followed by my brother, Edward Leonov, who is now in surgery and in hospital, because the authorities allow our fellow citizens not only to beat and rape the district police but also to beat the national MPs. Now it's about the bill. Indeed, the bill is very important in social terms, especially those 50,000 children with disabilities deserve the State to give them those allowances, material aid, because these children need not only care but also treatment and rehabilitation. Moreover, the bill is still positive in that it provides caregivers with this material aid when they receive it. It is also the preservation of this social insurance from the State Budget that should pay for these premiums. That's why we're going to support this bill. And I think most of this room will support it, especially given that it's, in fact, an extremely vulnerable social group like children with disabilities and their caregivers. Thank you.
ParlaMint-UA_2013-09-03-m1.u81	Party of regions, National Deputy Jaroslav Suhi.
ParlaMint-UA_2013-09-03-m1.u82	Dear colleagues, I would like everyone to point out that today, in his address and address to the Supreme Council of Ukraine, President Viktor Fedorovich Janukovic of Ukraine has called on the Supreme Council to review the state budget figures for 2013 with a view to increasing the guaranteed minimum of children who need it. It's about raising the so-called minimum level of living. This bill is on the move. One more. I'll ask everyone: notice, this bill applies to 6,000 children, only 6 children, and it needs almost, there, about 100 million dollars from the budget. I don't think it's such a big money, maybe even less so that we should have this bill today not to support. And one more thing. This bill by colleague Suškević fits into the foundation of the reform of the social system. And the basic basis for reforming the social system is to move to the targeted support system of those people who really need it. That category of children, which is spoken of today by colleague Suškević, are the very children, these are the very parents who urgently need money to improve their material situation. I think we should have realized a long time ago that we need to move away from this system, a completely imperfect system of social protection. In spite of all the words and intentions of our minister of social policy, we do not see new approaches, except for the same one that we have heard and seen. There's money, there's no money. After all, when does the government propose a normal way out of those social deadlocks that we see today? I urge everyone to support this bill.
ParlaMint-UA_2013-09-03-m1.u83	Paul Rosenco, Vitaly Caller's Faction. Please.
ParlaMint-UA_2013-09-03-m1.u84	Paul Rosenco, Vitaly Caller's Faction. I want to begin by reading article 46 of the Constitution of Ukraine, which clearly states that "pensions, other forms of social benefits and assistance, which are the main source of existence, should ensure a standard of living not lower than the minimum of living laid down by law." Unfortunately, this article of the Constitution of Ukraine does not apply to us in Ukraine and there are a number of categories of persons, including, unfortunately, disabled persons whose social assistance is lower than the subsistence minimum. It's a care allowance, first of all. The other one. As far as the level of security is concerned. We really have a category like "the level of living minimum," which is also below the subsistence minimum that the President was talking about today. But I want to remind Mr. Jaroslav that exactly two years ago, the President gave Mikola Janovich Azarov a commission to give up this disgraceful one at all. The word "equivalence of provision of a minimum of living." That was two years ago. All social standards have to be calculated from a minimum of living, an alpha and an omega of social policy. Two years have passed -- no decision on this matter has been taken, and I don't see, really, I agree, I don't see any initiative taken by the Ministry today to carry out this task by the President. So perhaps it is time that we, the Supreme Council of Ukraine, also take on some of the responsibility and start moving in that direction. We took one positive step. The Supreme Council of Ukraine supported the proposal, an amendment that I made from the strike faction in order to increase the allowance for the care of category "A" invalids. Today I'm asking, too. This is a small part of our citizens who are in the most difficult condition. We must support this bill and vote.
ParlaMint-UA_2013-09-03-m1.u85	Thank you. The faction of the Ukrainian Company, Peter Cibenko, please.
ParlaMint-UA_2013-09-03-m1.u86	Thank you. The faction of the Ukrainian Company, Peter Cibenko. Dear colleagues! Dear citizens of Ukraine! The faction of the Communist Party of Ukraine will, of course, consistently defend the most disadvantaged sections of the population and support the bill. But what I'm trying to say is... Dear colleagues! This once again attracts us, draws our attention to the need for a comprehensive approach to solving social problems. I'm talking about, in this case, what we're trying to do as well, we've supported one part of the disabled. And so it turns out that the other part of the disabled is behind. So we have to make this decision at least because we have to solve the problem that the Supreme Council created by adopting a separate law. But it's very clear, in large numbers, that children have always taken special care of themselves in our society, and that is to say children with disabilities. So in a good sense, we are destined to support this bill. And the faction of the Ukrainian Company will do that. Thank you.
ParlaMint-UA_2013-09-03-m1.u87	Please give me a minute, Deputy People's Landing. But not according to the rules. I'm breaking the rules. Wait a minute.
ParlaMint-UA_2013-09-03-m1.u88	Oleg Lazko, Radical Party. Of course, increasing payments to people who care for children with disabilities is the right bill to support. But with the opportunity, I turn to the government. And I ask you to correct the situation that the law is not being enforced today. Here's a call from a man from Ninja, looking after a disabled child and a group from childhood. For four months, there is no payment for State assistance in caring for the child. Another man from the Chernigovka District calls. She's looking after an 85-year-old lying mom. State aid — 130 dollars — is not paid for four months. I'm asking the government, these tens of millions of dollars, not to spend on stealing, not on government property, not on anything else, but on unemployment, disability care, child care, etc. That's the first payout that needs to be made. The 130s don't pay for four months. Shame!
ParlaMint-UA_2013-09-03-m1.u89	Your Honor, we've worked with all of you in the districts. They didn't. What's with the government? The village council didn't pay off for four months. All questions are settled in places. You need to be sent somewhere to work by the mayor. Let's go to Donetsk. Ladies and gentlemen, please take your seats. I'm asking for a vote. I'm putting the bill to a vote. Please be prepared. I am voting on a bill (registration number 1095) to amend some of the laws of Ukraine concerning the strengthening of social protection for persons who care for children with disabilities and persons with disabilities and the group for adoption as a basis. People's deputies, please vote. [[17:15:57]] For 202 Against - 1, held - 22, not voted - 150. The decision is not taken. The factions. Region Party 38, Parenthood 61, Vitalia Klicka 27, Freedom 32, Company 31 and non-fractional 13. Please turn on the microphone of Suškević head of the committee. Please.
ParlaMint-UA_2013-09-03-m1.u90	Thank you, Vladimir Vasilovich. Dear colleagues, I would like to ask you to go back to voting on this bill on children with severe disabilities. And I promise you, as head of the committee, that we will sit down with the Ministry of Finance and Social Policy, and we will work this way on the second reading to find the resources that are possible to increase the support of children with disabilities. I ask you to return to the vote and vote for this very difficult and socially significant bill. I ask you to support mothers who have their own children with disabilities and who cannot survive in society today. Please support and return to the vote. I promise to work with the government. Thank you.
ParlaMint-UA_2013-09-03-m1.u91	Please, Ghana Herman.
ParlaMint-UA_2013-09-03-m1.u92	Dear Mr. Head, dear fellow members of the National MPs, please return to this vote, you can support this bill by calculating the waiver of the MP's benefits, these funds can be allocated to children with disabilities. If we're so poor and we can't get those few coins from where we're from. Let's give up all of them together, there's already this experience here, a few deputies have given up the benefits, and we're going to let these funds go to help children with disabilities. Thank you.
ParlaMint-UA_2013-09-03-m1.u93	May I make an offer to return to the vote? I'll bet you a vote. Ladies and gentlemen, please take your seats. A very serious question! Sit down! I'm betting on the vote to go back to the vote on draft law number 1095. People's deputies, please vote. [[17:18:57]] For 347 Against - 0, held - 0, did not vote - 36. Decision taken. Put your hands where I can see them, everybody understands and votes. I am now voting on the draft Act (1095) amending certain laws of Ukraine to strengthen social protection for persons who care for children with disabilities and persons with disabilities and the group for adoption as a basis. People's deputies, please vote. [[17:19:43]] For 345. Against - 0, held - 0, did not vote - 37. Decision taken. The factions. Region Party 172, Fatherland 69, Vitalia Klicka, 28, Freedom 32, Company 31, non-fractional 13. Valerius Mikhailovich, you have been heard by the people's deputies. The last draft of the Act is currently under consideration (No. 2059) to amend some of the laws of Ukraine on pension insurance. How will we view it? I'll bet you a reduced vote. Appoint yourself, national deputies. Please vote. [[17:20:48]] For 177 Against 74, held – 10, not voted – 118. Decision taken. The factions. By factions, you see. I invite the head of the Committee on Pensioners, Veterans and Disabled Persons, Valery Mikhajlovich Suškević. How many minutes do you need? Four minutes. Turn on the microphone, please.
ParlaMint-UA_2013-09-03-m1.u94	Thank you, Reverend Vladimir Vasilovich! As the chairman of the committee and the drafter of the bill, honourable colleagues, first of all, I thank you for supporting children with disabilities! And now I want to draw your attention to the military pensioners. The legal norm of the Law of Ukraine provides that the recalculation of pensions to a military pensioner who has acquired the right to increase his pension, and if for some reason the situation is that he has acquired the right to retire for more than two years and some error has occurred, he is returned only in the last 12 months. The mechanism, the law, provides that the mechanism of recalculation of the military pensioner is built in such a way that pensions are counted without the personal intervention of the pensioner, the military pensioner, and only by the submission of the Ministry of Defence of Ukraine or the Ministry of Internal Affairs. You realize that a military pensioner, if there's a pension situation and he gets that right, then an official in the Ministry submits these documents, and if there's a mistake, then a military pensioner, without guilt, gets that promotion only in the last 12 months. Thus, he cannot pay back to the full the proper cost to the military pensioner. The military pensioners addressed me personally to the committee and asked me to provide and give legal opportunity to persons released from military service to pay their pensions, which were not listed or paid for by the Pension Fund or the Ministry of Defence, regardless of the term, because it was not his fault that he was not credited with this pension. In particular, I would like to emphasize, and I pay attention to all the national MPs and factions, that the bill does not need any additional funds from the state budget, these funds are provided by the state budget. This is due to the fact that the conditions and arrangements for the recalculation of pensions to military pensioners accordingly and the amount required for their implementation are already set out in 63 articles of the Ukrainian Law on the Retirement of Persons Released from Military Service and Some Other Persons. I do not understand the position of the public authorities on the need for additional funds to implement this law. This position can be counted as one option for the so-called economy of the Pension Fund and the State Budget, and for the retirement of the pensioner for the statutory recalculation of pensions. Thus, in principle, many pensioners can not be paid in two, three years, but can be returned in just one year, and this is said to be the gain and economy of the State Budget Fund or the Pension Fund. I point out to you that the National Security and Defence Committee recommends that the Supreme Council accept the bill as a basis. The main scientific and expert office is proposing to adopt this bill on the first reading as a basis. And our committee, I will report as chairman of the committee, has decided to propose to the Supreme Council to adopt this bill in the first reading. I repeat, the funds provided for by the state budget are returned to the military pensioners when they have acquired the legal right to the pension costs they have earned. Please support this bill. Thank you for your attention.
ParlaMint-UA_2013-09-03-m1.u95	Thank you. Do you want to talk about it? I can't see. There is one MP who wants to discuss, Paul Rosenko. If you'll excuse me from the factions, I'll give you my word. Please, Paul Rosenko.
ParlaMint-UA_2013-09-03-m1.u96	Paul Rosenco, Vitaly Caller's Faction. Indeed, the situation today at the Pension Fund, in general, in the economy of Ukraine, is really difficult. We see that only under the Ukrainian State Budget Act 2013, the grant to the Ukrainian Pension Fund today amounts to about 83 billion dollars, from the state budget of Ukraine. So the situation is even more tense, if you look at today's filling of the Pension Fund, in the first half of the year, according to experts, the budget deficit of the Pension Fund is about 10 to 15 billion dollars. And unfortunately, in this situation, the pension authorities do not always adequately act on the economy first of all and try to address these problems with the budget deficit of the Pension Fund at the expense of ordinary citizens. We remember that with some letters, refusals, and refusals, the Pension Fund began to cancel pensions for black people, military personnel, retired workers, and so forth. In this case, it is a matter of hand-held pension funds can create problems for the categories of military pensioners due to such disagreements in the Ukrainian state budget and in the Ukrainian legislation. Sadly, sometimes infertile officials use these latrines in pension legislation and act to the detriment of our citizens. So, indeed, there is a mass appeal by military pensioners that they are being gleaned in their rights. Today, we have the opportunity to close these hatches, allow them to recalculate pensions without the expiration date, and this is a real step for military pensioners to meet. It's a faction.
ParlaMint-UA_2013-09-03-m1.u97	Thank you. From the "Freedom" union, who? National deputy Zelik, please. Then who's from Fatherland?
ParlaMint-UA_2013-09-03-m1.u98	Dear colleagues! Ruslan Zelik, the All-Ukrainian Freedom Union. You know, it was very sad to see when the Party of Regions voted only on a second attempt to give material preferences to children with disabilities. Let's see how it goes with the military pensioners. But what I'm saying is that the law, really, is positive, we're going to vote for it, we're going to support it, because in principle, we really need those military officials to return the pensions they deserve. Thank you.
ParlaMint-UA_2013-09-03-m1.u99	Thank you. The Fatherland faction, National Deputy Catherinechuk.
ParlaMint-UA_2013-09-03-m1.u100	The Fatherland faction, the European Party of Ukraine, Mikola Catherinechuk. I would like to point out that it is not only military personnel who are standing in a discriminatory position today in the matter of resolving the justice of pensions. But this bill removes technical obstacles towards obtaining the pension of those who are no longer serving. But the issue of proving the guilt of the pension authorities or other public authorities takes all the power and material resources from the military pensioners, because the guilt must be proved in the courts, and it is only in the court procedure that this guilt can be established. That's why I fully support this bill because it removes the disagreements that have been established in this bill, and also makes it possible to go back to those issues that have not been resolved in court for years. That's why it disciplines the bodies of the Pension Fund, it disciplines other bodies that provide some kind of help that consists of some deductions of pension insurance. And this will finally tell our military personnel that they did serve our people, our country. And that's a very important question that I'd like the whole room to support. And once again, I emphasize what the head of the Suskevic committee said, it will not change the budget burden on the Pension Fund, the money has already been made, and only because of formal reasons have the military pensioners not received it. Please support everyone. The Fatherland faction will vote in favour of this bill.
ParlaMint-UA_2013-09-03-m1.u101	Party of regions, National Deputy Jaroslav Suhi.
ParlaMint-UA_2013-09-03-m1.u102	Dear colleagues, I'm about to take off the plot so there won't be any ambiguity of treatment, in response to a colleague from Liberty, we won't support this bill. And I suggest that it be sent to the committee for further work, because this bill, unlike the first one, has no financial and economic justification and sources of filling after the recalculation of pensions. But first. Today, problems such as the setting up of, well, ambiguous interpretation of retirement age and internships when it comes to the granting of a pension on a retirement basis or at an age, are decided by military officials, through complaints, through appeals to Ukrainian national deputies, including through trial. But the second question is not clear at all, and the second question is why the Committee needs to work out, because whose fault was not recalculation of pensions, why the Pension Fund didn't count, why it wasn't published on time -- these things should be regulated by law, by the way, they're regulated. So in that case, if the committee offers us clear sources for this bill and the need for financial and economic justification and a source of fulfillment, only then will it be possible to vote for it. And now I propose that this bill be sent to the first committee to be processed for first reading. Thank you.
ParlaMint-UA_2013-09-03-m1.u103	From the faction of the Company of Ukraine, please, Peter Cibenko.
ParlaMint-UA_2013-09-03-m1.u104	Thank you. The faction of the Ukrainian Company, Peter Cibenko. Dear colleagues, respected citizens of Ukraine! For the faction of the Company of Ukraine, it is so obvious that there is nothing for us to discuss. It's absolutely necessary to support this document, because the de facto change in the formula of the calculation at the already set and planned costs. So it's obvious that the faction of the Company of Ukraine will support this bill. But I would like to speak of other, distinguished colleagues. You know, we're faced with one problem of pension reform, pension insurance, and another. That is why, in the previous session, the faction of the Company of Ukraine introduced the draft Law on the Cancellation of Pension Reform. We're going to continue this line because the thing is that this problem is constantly emerging. In recent times, Ukrainian citizens, our voters, knowing that Ukraine's Company is initiating the issue of joining the Customs Union of Ukraine, are proposing to join the Customs Union of Russia, Belarus and Kazakhstan, to join the issue of abolishing pension reform, as this issue is of great concern to the people. The same can be said of the medical reform that was under consideration, including today’s discussion. That's why the faction of the Communist Party of Ukraine is certainly going to vote in favour of this bill and will do everything in order to remove all the problems that exist in the pension sector, because these people have given the state everything they can to work as hard as they can today, when they're sick on the slope of age. They demand adequate social protection from the state. So the Ukrainian Company supports this bill. Thank you.
ParlaMint-UA_2013-09-03-m1.u105	Thank you. Let's listen to the honorable General Kuzmuk. Wait a minute.
ParlaMint-UA_2013-09-03-m1.u106	Ladies and gentlemen, I am pleased to approach and thank the distinguished Valery Suškević. But I would like to invite Mr. Valeria to share my thoughts with the Committee on Defence and Security, which. We haven't seen this bill. Why? Only in the current year did the courts withdraw about 300 million dollars from the Ministry of Defence's payroll fund, which will not be paid for. This was a consequence of us adopting the laws of charity, noble, noble, and then paying with the pensioners. So I'm asking Mr. Wallery to understand and work together to work out this law comprehensively as a step in the direction of a just pension system. Thank you.
ParlaMint-UA_2013-09-03-m1.u107	I'm asking for the attention of the people's deputies. Sit down and we'll determine by vote. I'm voting on a bill (number 2059) amending some of the laws of Ukraine on pension insurance, for adoption as a basis. People's deputies, please vote. [[17:35:52]] For 176 Against 0. We're holding on to 30. There was no vote – 163. The decision is not taken. The factions, please. Region Party 8, Fatherland 63, Vitalia Klicka Hit 30, Freedom 32, Company 32, Postfaction 11. There is an offer: To return the subject to the right of legislative initiative for further development. I'll bet you a vote. People's deputies, please vote. [[17:36:39]] For 325 Against 0. We're holding on to one. They didn't vote, 47. Decision taken. The factions. You can see the factions. I ask the leaders of all factions to enter the Cabinet of the Supreme Council now. And thank you all for your work. The evening session of the Supreme Council of Ukraine is closed. I'll invite you tomorrow at 10 a.m. to resume the session.
