ParlaMint-UA_2013-09-05-m0.u1	Good morning, distinguished national deputies, invited and guests of the Supreme Council. People's deputies please prepare for registration and please activate the "Council" system. [[10:02:51]] There were 397 national deputies registered in the hall. The morning session of the Supreme Council of Ukraine is open. Today is the birthday of the Ukrainian national deputy Sergio Vladislavovich Sobolev. Let's say hello to him on his birthday. [[Applause]] I want to inform you, they're on board today, they've given me information, they've given me information, they've given me a national MP, they've got a national deputy, Heleway and Pavlovsky, they've got a national deputy, Popescu, no, Popescu's here, there is. Next. They are on vacation: People’s Deputy Dach, National MP Andriy Derkac. On the hospital floor are National Deputy Leonov Edouard Volodymyrovich and I have data, Boris Viktorovich Kolesnikov. Yeah, right? Yes. Announcing is done. Ladies and gentlemen, I ask you to sit down, calm down, and we will begin our work. On July 5, 2013, the President of Ukraine, in accordance with article 131 of the Constitution of Ukraine, appointed articles 5 and 9 of the Law on the Supreme Council of Justice, by his decree, Sergey Marjanović Vinokurov, a judge of the Constitutional Court of Ukraine. In accordance with article 17 of the Law of Ukraine on the Higher Council of Justice and article 217 of the Rules of the Supreme Council of Ukraine, before taking office as a member of the Supreme Council of Justice, an oath is made at the meeting of the Supreme Council of Ukraine. Therefore, a member of the High Council of Justice, Sergija Markianovich Vinokurov, is invited to make an oath on the rostrum. Please.
ParlaMint-UA_2013-09-05-m0.u2	I, Vinokurov Sergey Markianovich, have sworn conscientiously, honestly and impartially to serve as a member of the High Council of Justice, with the aim of ensuring the formation of a corps of high - professional and honest lawyers and the observance of law and ethics in the activities of judges and prosecutors.
ParlaMint-UA_2013-09-05-m0.u3	Let us wish you success in the work of Sergey Markianovich. Ladies and gentlemen, let's move on to law-making, to the agenda of the first question. A draft law is under consideration. May I have the attention of the people's deputies? A draft Law amending certain laws of Ukraine on the enforcement of judicial decisions (registration number 2399) is under consideration. How do MPs propose that we address this issue? Offering a reduced procedure. He doesn't vote in full. Short-term procedure. There's an offer, I'll put it to a vote, and you, MPs, bet. Please vote. [[10:07:57]] For 172 Against-86, held-10, didn't vote 137. Decision taken. Please, by the factions. I invite you to report to Justice Minister Olenna Leonidovna Lukash.
ParlaMint-UA_2013-09-05-m0.u4	Thank you. Ladies and gentlemen of the national parliament, the honourable ones present, Mr. Head, the presidency! Your opinion is proposed by the Ministry of Justice and the Cabinet's draft law amending certain Ukrainian laws on the enforcement of judicial decisions. You know what happened to the European Court of Human Rights pilot, Yuri Mikolaiovich Ivanov v. Ukraine. And our nation was obliged to implement an effective remedy or a set of remedies that would provide adequate and sufficient protection against failure or delay in the execution of a national court decision, for which it is responsible in accordance with the principles established by the European Court of Human Rights. To implement the above - mentioned decision, the Supreme Council of Ukraine has already adopted the Law on State Guarantees for the Enforcement of Judgments. This law introduced a procedure for the enforcement of court decisions by debtors, which include public authorities, businesses, institutions and organizations, as well as legal persons, whose enforcement is prohibited under the law. It is with a view to ensuring full compliance with the State’s obligations and to improving the provisions of the Ukrainian Law on State Guarantees for the Enforcement of Judgments by the Ministry of Justice that we are considering today. The project provides for a mechanism to determine the size of the debt, its restructuring and its phased repayment. In particular, the law lists the following mechanisms. The executing documents of the court’s decision on the collection of funds or the decision of a court that has gained legal power by debtors, as defined in the first article of this Law, are submitted to the State’s executive body within three months of the date of entry into force of this paragraph. We propose to the State to make audits of the decisions made by the State in the interests of Ukrainian citizens, businesses, other legal persons, but not implemented. Today, there is no complete audit of such debts. And the second thing we're asking for is a step-by-step repayment, a step-by-step repayment since 2014 in such a turnaround. First of all.
ParlaMint-UA_2013-09-05-m0.u5	Finish it, give it a shot.
ParlaMint-UA_2013-09-05-m0.u6	I ask you very much to pay attention to the momentum offered by the government. First of all, money should be given to socially unprotected groups of people. First, the court’s decision on alimony, damages, and damage caused by crime, disability, or other health problems, as well as the loss of a breadwinner, is repaid. On the other hand, the State will pay off its debt for the court’s decisions relating to employment relations, pensions, and social relations. In the third instance, debt for all other court decisions is repaid. The size of the budget allocations for debt repayment is determined by the State Budget Act of Ukraine for the corresponding year. I would like to point out that this is a very serious attempt to resolve the issue and fulfil Ukraine’s commitment to the above - mentioned piloting decision of the European Court of Justice. I know people's advocates are worried about two moments. The first is the term of the invitation and the second is the automatic execution of the decision if the person has not been able to make a request within a certain period of time to execute its judgment. We propose to remove this question, but we very much ask you to vote on technical changes, the ability to review decisions, the audit without any restrictions. And the third is restructuring. There will be no more money in the budget than they are, but they should be spent not on commercial needs, but primarily on pensions, alimony, disability compensation and so forth. These are three points that I very much want to bring together today both power and opposition. And I would also like to mention that this is not just an attempt to honour the State's commitment to citizens, but also our Euro-integration commitments. Thank you for your attention and for your support.
ParlaMint-UA_2013-09-05-m0.u7	Thank you. Have a seat. Ladies and gentlemen, I have announced to you that Boris Viktorovich is not in the session room, but he is present in the session room. I invite you to the report of the Vice-President of the Committee on the Rule of Law and Justice, Mr. Dmitry Yuriovich Špenov. Please.
ParlaMint-UA_2013-09-05-m0.u8	Thank you. Dear Chairman, dear colleagues! On May 22nd, a parliamentary hearing was held in this room on the status of execution of judgments in Ukraine. During the hearings, the reporters rightly called attention to the need for a legislative solution to the European Court of Justice ruling "Ivanov v. Ukraine". Parliamentary hearings acknowledged that unlike many other countries, Ukrainian legislation does not at all guarantee the execution of European judicial decisions in Ukraine. Only the fact rejects Ukraine for a lower degree in human rights. One of the largest categories of decisions that are not systematically implemented in Ukraine is judicial decisions that are owed to public authorities, state enterprises, institutions and organizations, as well as to legal persons whose assets are prohibited by law. This bill proposes to address this problem by amending the Ukrainian Law on Enforcement, "On State Guarantees for Enforcement of Decisions. These changes set up a mechanism to ensure public payment and debt of a given category of affairs from the state budget. Unpaid funds are credited to the sovereign budget of Ukraine and are paid off at the expense of its funds. The executive documents are to be sent to the treasury authorities, and the amount of budget payments for their repayment will be set out in the National Budget Act of Ukraine each year. The bill aims not only to ensure the enforcement of court decisions in the specified categories of cases for the future but also to establish a mechanism for the repayment of existing debts under judicial decisions. The project did not raise observations in the Supreme Court, the Supreme Economic Court, the Supreme Administrative Courts of Ukraine and the Committee of the Supreme Council of Ukraine on Legal Policy and European Integration. It is supported by the Institute of State and Law of Korea. The Committee on Budget Affairs concluded that the bill had an impact on the state budget. The Supreme Council of Ukraine, the National Academy of Law of Ukraine, the National University of Odessa Law Academy, supported the project with some observations.
ParlaMint-UA_2013-09-05-m0.u9	Finish up.
ParlaMint-UA_2013-09-05-m0.u10	which can be considered for the second reading of the bill. In view of the above, the Committee on the Rule of Law and Justice decided to recommend that the bill be adopted on the first reading as a basis. Thank you for your attention.
ParlaMint-UA_2013-09-05-m0.u11	Thank you. I'm asking the National Deputies to sign up for the factions. The Vitalia Klitschka faction, the people's deputy, Rosenko. People's deputy Caplin handed it over.
ParlaMint-UA_2013-09-05-m0.u12	Paul Rosenco, Vitaly Caller's Faction. Indeed, we have a paradoxical picture coming out of the country that we have in order to carry out court decisions that have already become legally valid, and we need to adopt additional laws that will set guarantees for the execution of the courts. This is certainly not a European path, where it is clearly stated in Europe, a decision that has gained legal power must be implemented automatically. And the point here is that, indeed, if you take the comments that the European Commission has said, they, and if you take the Fule list, it is clearly written here "as soon as possible to implement all the decisions of the European Court of Human Rights." This is to be provided by Ukraine. But what does the European Court of Human Rights tell us? Which is pretty much it. The main problems that lead to the European Court of Human Rights' finding of violations by Ukraine of the provisions of the European Convention on Human Rights are the failure to comply with the decisions of national courts. So the problem is that we don't have a national court decision. And unfortunately, the first step towards the failure of these courts was taken by the previous Supreme Council when it passed the State Guarantees Act on Enforcement of Decisions, which effectively blocked all court decisions concerning social issues, namely, the payment of payments to black people, children of war, working pensioners and so on. And now, unfortunately, we are. The government is offering us this bill to legalize again. Therefore, the position of the strike faction is as follows: we clearly support all European and pro-European laws, and for this bill we will only vote in one case when it is removed from the End for amending the Ukrainian law on guarantees of the state over the courts.
ParlaMint-UA_2013-09-05-m0.u13	Finish up, 10 seconds. Because these are the transitional positions that block the execution of court decisions on social issues. This is the position of the faction, and we will be.
ParlaMint-UA_2013-09-05-m0.u14	The Fatherland faction, National Deputy Petrenko.
ParlaMint-UA_2013-09-05-m0.u15	Dear colleagues, the honourable chairman! Unfortunately, we see a situation where, under Euro-Integration Bills, we are being tried by the government to submit a bill that is actually a gross violation of the Constitution and of the commitments made by Ukraine to the European Union. Why? This is because, in fact, the Supreme Council is trying to get the bill to be voted in for a bill that cheats about thirty billion dollars of government debt on the basis of decisions made in favour of Ukrainian citizens. On the subject of the audit, in fact, our citizens are being held at a disadvantage compared to other persons on the part of the deadlines for submission of implementing documents before execution, three months and in the portion of the period of limitation – six months. While the general terms of the statute of limitations are applied to all disputes for three years. And the deadlines for submitting implementing documents are three years, too. What does that mean? This means that those citizens are generally socially unprotected citizens, these are senior citizens who will not be able to submit the relevant implementing documents within the framework of what is called an audit of the executive services of the relevant authorities, who will lose the right to raise their blood-earned funds, that's the first. Second, with regard to the time frame or the postponement of the execution of judgments, the European Court of Justice has tried to impose a situation in which, according to the wording found in the final positions, the citizen never receives any funds because it is clearly written here. I quote that there is a schedule until 2014, and then these costs will be paid in stages. We don't understand with you the extent to which the amounts will be provided in the state budget after 2014. What does the expert environment say? It says that, in fact, it's an attempt to steal about 30 billion dollars from citizens, and this attempt at scale is bigger than an affair with the savings bank of the Soviet Union. So the "Fatherland" faction in such an editorial will in no way support this bill. Because it doesn't appear to be Euro-integration and it violates the Constitution. We demand that this bill be removed completely from the final position, and then we will be able to vote for it.
ParlaMint-UA_2013-09-05-m0.u16	The faction of the Ukrainian Company, the national deputy of Bidovka.
ParlaMint-UA_2013-09-05-m0.u17	I'd like to give you a word. Please pass the word to Peter Stepanovich Zybenko. Please pass on the word of Zybenko.
ParlaMint-UA_2013-09-05-m0.u18	Dear fellow citizens! Faction of the Communist Party of Ukraine, Peter Cibenko, head of the Ukrainian Veterans Council. Dear colleagues! The minister immediately urged the Ukrainian National Deputies to adopt amendments to legislation related to the adoption of the Law on State Guarantees for the Enforcement of Judgments. Dear Madam Minister! I want to tell you that in the income categories of Ukrainian citizens, in frontal veterans, in children of war, in black people, the locks haven't moved away from the previous initiative you took. Who forgot, I'll remember. In the spring of 2011, the Cabinet of Ministers of Ukraine – and I stress this – passed a bill on state guarantees for the enforcement of court decisions, which included the first chapter of the court decisions, and the second chapter multiplied by zero all laws relating to the social protection of veterans, Chernobyl, children of war and so on and so forth. And only through the efforts, first of all, did the faction of the Ukrainian Company and the veteran organizations of Ukraine succeed the other chapters. Once again, the entire legal framework for the social protection of veterans has been destroyed, and the law has only been passed in the volume of the first chapter. What is proposed, fellow believers? A manual procedure for the execution of court decisions is proposed. I remind you who forgot. Decisions taken by courts in the name of Ukraine This is how the execution mode is proposed. manual execution mode. Now I'm doing this 745th Cabinet Order. Now they want to do it by law. So I would stress that the faction of the Ukrainian Company is definitely against the adoption of this document and it will be. Not only will he not vote, but he will vote against this document. Thank you.
ParlaMint-UA_2013-09-05-m0.u19	Thank you. Party of regions. National Deputy Zharavsky.
ParlaMint-UA_2013-09-05-m0.u20	Dear colleagues! The purpose of this draft law is to ensure the full fulfilment of the State's obligations under the European Court of Justice's pilot decision in the "Juriy Mikolaiovich Ivanov v. Ukraine" case, as well as to ensure the implementation of the law. The objective of the project is, firstly, to resolve the issue of the repayment of the existing debt for judicial decisions, which are the responsibility of the State of Ukraine. The size of the budgetary allocations to repay the debt will be approved by the Parliament of our State in the National Budget Act of Ukraine for the corresponding year. The aim of this project is, secondly, to reconcile the provisions of the Ukrainian Law on Enforcement with the Ukrainian Law on State Guarantees for Enforcement of Decisions. I urge the people's defenders to support this Kabmin initiative, it's the right one. Thank you.
ParlaMint-UA_2013-09-05-m0.u21	Thank you. Freedom Union, the People's Deputy of Kyde. Please.
ParlaMint-UA_2013-09-05-m0.u22	Thank you. Alexy Kaida, faction of the All-Ukrainian Freedom Union. Dear colleagues! Our faction will definitely support those bills that are in the process of European integration. With regard to Bill 2399, we clearly advocate that we be removed from the final position of the bill. Because they make it impossible to compensate those citizens who have already won cases before the European Court of Justice. Our proposal is generally clear about the cases that were won in the European Court of Justice and the compensation granted by the State of Ukraine, the compensation was based on the judges who made the wrong decisions. And I think these bills will have to be worked out. And bring it to the Supreme Council in order to really guarantee all the rights of Ukrainian citizens. Thank you.
ParlaMint-UA_2013-09-05-m0.u23	Thank you. One minute, National Deputy Laszko. And we'll figure it out. Please.
ParlaMint-UA_2013-09-05-m0.u24	Oleg Lazko, Radical Party. Dear colleagues! I think you'll all agree, the problem is not as laws, but as laws. Do we not have a standard of the Constitution that provides for the obligation to enforce judicial decisions? Yes. But at the same time, we have a decision of the Constitutional Court, which provides that the execution of judgments depends on what is written in the budget. And in this year's budget, there's no money to make decisions in the Chernobyl courts, in children of war, in Afghans, in other categories of citizens. Once again, the bill proposed by the government foresees that court decisions are executed depending on the amounts provided for in the budget. I believe that a judicial decision must be carried out independently of any circumstances. There's no money in the budget -- sell government houses, sell cars, sell charter planes and make court decisions. People, grandmothers, grandparents who go to court for 10 years to get their 20 dollars, you don't give them up for years. I think it's disgrace and discredit.
ParlaMint-UA_2013-09-05-m0.u25	Ladies and gentlemen, all those who would like to discuss the matter have made a statement. I'm asking for your attention! Ladies and gentlemen, may I have your attention? We discussed the law. And proposals were made, and there are a lot of comments. Yesterday at the conciliatory council, we did not identify ourselves with the faction leaders by voting under this law. So please listen to my suggestion. According to 44 articles of our Law on the Rules, the time to vote: vote in the decision of the Supreme Council on any matter shall be held in plenary session immediately after its discussion (we have discussed), except in cases where it is impossible to vote. So I'm going to make a proposal: After considering this question, vote after a break of 12 hours, 30 minutes. At 12 o'clock, I'll have the faction leaders meet in my office to discuss the matter, and at 12:30, I'll ask the question for a vote. All right, national MPs? Agreed! Agreed! Let's move on to the second question. A draft law (No. 1131) amending the Ukrainian Criminal Enforcement Code on the order and conditions of punishment (second reading) is under consideration. I invite you to report to the Committee on Law Enforcement, Sergio Volodymyrovich Sasa. Please.
ParlaMint-UA_2013-09-05-m0.u26	Thank you. Dear Vladimir Vasilovich! Dear colleagues! The bill (registration number 1131) provides for changes to a number of articles of the Ukrainian Criminal Enforcement Code, which are edited in a comparative table of drafts aimed at protecting the rights and legitimate interests of those sentenced to deprivation of liberty, deprivation of liberty and permanent deprivation of liberty, and the humanization of conditions for their detention in institutions of execution. The project was adopted on the basis of the Supreme Council on May 16, the current year. In preparing the bill, 34 proposals were made to the committee for consideration in the second reading, including 5 in editorial and partial, and 8 amendments were rejected, which were not in line with the provisions of the law in force, particularly in violation of the requirements of article 116 of the Rules of the Supreme Council of Ukraine, to articles and regulations that were not considered in the first reading or were insufficiently substantiated. The proposals are proposed in conjunction with the Chief Scientific and Scientific Administration and the Legal Administration of the Supreme Council of Ukraine. The Committee supported the amendments made by the Ukrainian National Deputies, which preserve a valid edition of part two of article 46 of the Ukrainian Criminal Enforcement Code on the possibility of submitting criminal investigations as an incentive for exemplary conduct and conscientious treatment of the work of the convicted persons on the punishment of corrective labour for the replacement of the unpaid part of the fine, as well as the valid edition of articles 59 and 99 of the Ukrainian Criminal Enforcement Code, which do not provide for the defendant to have mobile phones and accessories with them. By the way, today this list of prohibitions is set at the level of sub-legal acts that. Dear colleagues, the project is also designed to establish a comprehensive list of prohibitions against convicted persons in article 107 of the Code. Today, these issues are addressed by means of regulations. A special block in this bill is devoted to the protection of motherhood and childhood. This is about mothers and children who are in their children’s homes in correctional colonies. In particular, the settled question is that these children can be visited by relatives. In view of the above, the committee adopted the proposal yesterday at the meeting, supported the proposal to recommend to the Supreme Council of Ukraine the adoption of Bill 1131 on second reading and generally as a law. Thank you for your attention.
ParlaMint-UA_2013-09-05-m0.u27	Thank you. Are we going to fix it? Amendment No. 1 of the People's Deputy of Olivenic. Are you insisting? I can't see. No, it's not. Amendment No. 8 of the Olinick People's Deputy. Don't insist. 9th Amendment. Don't insist. 11 Amendment of the People’s Deputy of Yavorowski Turn on the microphone of the people’s deputy Yavorowski.
ParlaMint-UA_2013-09-05-m0.u28	Vladimir Yavorowski, Trinity, Fatherland. Dear colleagues, my amendment is that the current text allows you to wear civilian clothes, carry mobile phones and accessories to them, money and other valuable things, and use mobile phones. What about the fact that a person is allowed to wear a mobile phone? I insist that it is written, "and use a mobile phone." Because tomorrow the jailers will turn and say that they are in good health, but you have no right to use it. That's why I insist, and I think it's a very normal amendment, and I'm asking you to vote for it.
ParlaMint-UA_2013-09-05-m0.u29	Ladies and gentlemen, attention! I vote in favour of the amendment of the Yavorowski People’s Deputy. Please vote. [[10:34:46]] For a hundred and Against-2, held-2, didn't vote-236. The decision is not taken. The factions. The factions. Let's move on. Amendment 18, People's Deputy Odarchenka. Please turn on the microphone.
ParlaMint-UA_2013-09-05-m0.u30	Thank you, Vladimir Vasilovich. Dear colleagues, this bill contains a very progressive norm -- the right of those convicted of non-problem crime to use a mobile phone. That's very right. But this process is completely out of order, and I support my colleague Yavorowski. For example, a convicted person may have a telephone, but he has no right to charge it because the law prohibits the use of electricity. Moreover, it is not settled what to do when a convicted person, for example, calls his former victims. I had been asked earlier by the voters to take action on what the convicts called. I suggest we establish a procedure whereby the seven-cards of the convicts will be set up on white lists -- a list of numbers for which they have the right to call. I've been interested in engineers, they say that seven cards can be configured accordingly. I also suggest that you install a mobile phone license.
ParlaMint-UA_2013-09-05-m0.u31	Please.
ParlaMint-UA_2013-09-05-m0.u32	Respectful fellow workers are certainly right, but they do not agree with the requirements of article 116 of the Rules as envisaged in the new article that was not considered in the first reading. Therefore, the committee decided, in view of the circumstances, to reject the offer.
ParlaMint-UA_2013-09-05-m0.u33	Do you insist on voting? You insist. I'm betting on the vote of Amendment 18 of the People's Deputies of Odarchenka. Please vote. [[10:37:10]] For 139 Against – 1, held – 20, did not vote – 251. The decision is not taken. The factions. Amendment 21 of the Yavorowski People’s Deputy is under consideration. Turn on the Yavorowski microphone.
ParlaMint-UA_2013-09-05-m0.u34	Vladimir Yavorowski, Trinity, Fatherland. Ladies and gentlemen, I address both the communists and the representatives of the Party of the Regions. Why didn't you vote to clarify it? The law must be very clear, a person has the right, a convicted person has the right to use a mobile phone, not just to carry it with him. And I have a letter to Sas. Why is this amendment rejected? Are you like the lawyer of a very high category against this amendment? Support me and explain what needs to be done. Thank you.
ParlaMint-UA_2013-09-05-m0.u35	Will you explain?
ParlaMint-UA_2013-09-05-m0.u36	Thank you. My personal opinion that this amendment should be supported is that I will personally support it, but I will now report to the committee's decision. The committee therefore decided to reject the amendment.
ParlaMint-UA_2013-09-05-m0.u37	I am voting on the amendment of 21 people's deputies of Yavorowski to support. People's deputies, please vote. [[10:38:52]] For-142 Against 3, held – 20, not voted – 247. The decision is not taken. The factions. Derevyanko, a national MP, asks for 19 amendments. Please.
ParlaMint-UA_2013-09-05-m0.u38	Dear Vladimir Vasilovich! Dear colleagues! It says here in the table that my correction is edited. And the point is that, according to my amendment to the detention of convicted persons in medical institutions, the authors are expected to regulate the regulatory and legal act of the central executive authority, which forms and ensures the implementation of state policy in the area of the execution of criminal penalties. My suggestion was that it was a joint act of this body, as well as a central executive body that shaped and ensured the implementation of public health policies. Because it is the disease of the condemned, it is the treatment of infectious patients and so on. So it's not enough competence, in my opinion, for one body and it needs to be a common normative act. Please be supportive.
ParlaMint-UA_2013-09-05-m0.u39	Sergei Volodymyrovich, please.
ParlaMint-UA_2013-09-05-m0.u40	Dear colleagues! The amendment is edited by the committee, but if the author insists, it is necessary to put the matter to the vote in order to support it.
ParlaMint-UA_2013-09-05-m0.u41	Dear National Deputies! I am betting on the amendment of the 19th People’s Derevyanco, he made his proposal. Please vote. [[10:40:48]] For-142 Against 0, held – 21, not a vote – 249. Correction not supported. The factions. Amendment No. 23 of the People’s Deputy of Knaczyk is under consideration. Are you insisting?
ParlaMint-UA_2013-09-05-m0.u42	Oleg Knaczykki, the All-Ukrainian Freedom Union. I insist, Your Honor, indeed the Council of Europe demands that there be a humanization of the punishment regime, we accept certain rights for the condemned, but we do not foresee a mechanism for the realization of those rights. So she, my amendment, agrees with the previous authors of the other amendments. If this rule provides for the defendant’s right to wear a mobile phone later on. A list is given, and so is money. And we're already giving a reality in the next part of the rule that you can use money and you can't use mobile phones, so let's not even foresee that right at all. Because this rule is going to be dead and no European requirement, let's face it, we're not going to be met. So I'm asking you, colleagues, to really deal with this question, and if we want to anticipate some rights, let's also foresee mechanisms for the realization of these rights. Thank you.
ParlaMint-UA_2013-09-05-m0.u43	Do you have an explanation?
ParlaMint-UA_2013-09-05-m0.u44	In my opinion, the amendment deserves attention because it serves the realization of certain rights, it sets up certain mechanisms more faithfully. Now, I'm not going to explain the legal and theoretical grounds for its rejection, but I'm only saying that the committee has decided to reject the amendment. Therefore, an amendment should be put to the vote in accordance with the procedure.
ParlaMint-UA_2013-09-05-m0.u45	Thank you. The vote shall be voted on by amendment No. 23 of the People's Deputy. People's deputies, please vote. [[10:43:01]] For-142 Against 0, held – 21, not a vote – 251. Correction not supported. Amendment 28 of the Odarchenka People’s Deputy is under consideration. Please turn on the microphone.
ParlaMint-UA_2013-09-05-m0.u46	Thank you, Vladimir Vasilovich. Dear colleagues, now the Department of Punishment is absolutely clear that if the convicted person is ill, he loses a number of his rights. For example, the patient is often unable to get a date or a legal telephone call, since it is not convenient to exercise proper control in hospitals. And it seems that no one is going to solve this problem today. I would like to make it clear that putting a convicted person in a hospital is not possible to exercise full control. is a limitation of his rights. The human rights of even the condemned cannot depend on the State’s ability to carry out its duties. The State’s inability to carry out its duties is not a problem for the condemned. I propose that my amendment address this issue and allow the convicts who are in the hospital to exercise their rights.
ParlaMint-UA_2013-09-05-m0.u47	I'll bet you an amendment to the 28th People's Deputies of Odarchenka. People's deputies, please vote. [[10:44:47]] For 148 Against – 2, held – 20, did not vote – 245. Correction not supported. Amendment 33 of the Olinik People’s Deputy is under consideration. Don't insist. Sergei Volodymyrovich, have all the amendments been considered?
ParlaMint-UA_2013-09-05-m0.u48	Yes, all the amendments are under consideration. The amendment by Oliynik Vladimir Mikolaiovich, she was considered on the committee, and she was rejected on the basis of the position, again, formally article 116 of the Supreme Council of Ukraine Rules.
ParlaMint-UA_2013-09-05-m0.u49	I'll bet you a vote. Dear National MPs, very important law, please take your seats, there will be a vote now. Everyone, please take your seats. Did everyone hear that? Prepare for the vote. I am voting on draft Act (No. 1131) amending the Criminal Enforcement Code of Ukraine on the order and conditions of punishment. For adoption in the second reading and in general. Please vote. [[10:46:36]] For 379 Against - 1, held - 0, not voted - 36. Decision taken. Factions: Region Party - 187, Fatherland - 73, Vitalia Klicka - 32, Freedom - 34, Company - 29, non-fractional - 24. That's how we have to vote all day today. Do you have a deal?
ParlaMint-UA_2013-09-05-m0.u50	Thank you.
ParlaMint-UA_2013-09-05-m0.u51	A draft Act (No. 2105a) amending the Ukrainian Customs Tariff, approved by the Ukrainian Customs Tariff Act (new edition), is under consideration. How do we view it? It's full and it's short. I'm betting on a brief vote on this issue. I'd like you to identify yourself. [[10:48:02]] For-191 We're clear. 191 – in favour – 80 – held – 8, not voted – 133. Decision taken. I invite you to report to the head of the Committee on Tax and Customs Policy, Vitaly Yuriovich Homutinnik.
ParlaMint-UA_2013-09-05-m0.u52	Dear Vladimir Vasilovich, distinguished colleagues, we are now considering the bill "On Ukrainian Customs Tariff" (2105a), submitted by the Cabinet of Ministers, prepared for the implementation of the programme obligations following Ukraine's accession to the World Trade Organization. It's rereading. In my first reading, I said from this rostrum that in addition to the provisions relating to the implementation of the conditions for 2013 of the World Trade Organization, there are also provisions that the government has added to this bill. That was the reason why this bill was not adopted in its first reading this week. Under agreement with the MPs, the committee held a decision that was agreed upon to remove those positions that do not apply to the Agreement on. This year, Ukraine, which is signed with the World Trade Organization. This refers to the increase in import duty rates for polyvinyl chloride, the reduction in import duties by some wastes and scrap metal from 5 percent to 0 percent, and the introduction of double full import duty rates. That's why there's this recommendation and the committee's proposal to adopt the bill as a basis. In the committee's presentation, these positions are reflected, and the second-reading committee will work out these positions, which are aligned with the factions and for the next plenary week will issue a ready, harmonized and legally executed document for the second reading. Thank you for your attention.
ParlaMint-UA_2013-09-05-m0.u53	Thank you. Do you want to talk about it? None. Vote. I'm asking for the attention of the people's deputies. We discussed this issue yesterday. I'm betting on a draft bill (number 2105a) amending the Ukrainian Customs Tariff, approved by the Ukrainian Customs Tariff Act (new edition) for adoption as a basis. People's deputies, please vote. [[10:51:30.]] For 365 Against-0, held-1, not voted-49. Decision taken. The factions. There are factions. Ladies and gentlemen, we are moving on to the issue of amending the Constitution of Ukraine. The draft Law (Registration No. 2522a) amending the Constitution of Ukraine on strengthening the guarantees of the independence of judges is being introduced. A bill introduced by the President of Ukraine pursuant to articles 93, 154 of the Constitution of Ukraine and defined as urgent. According to the requirements of part one of article 146 of the Rules, questions are dealt with solely under the full - time procedure. And I invite you to take the floor for the report of Andrey Volodymyrovich Portnov, President of Ukraine. Please. Please report, the full discussion of this matter goes. Please.
ParlaMint-UA_2013-09-05-m0.u54	The Honourable Head of the Supreme Council of Ukraine! Honorable National Deputies of Ukraine! The President of Ukraine submitted to the Supreme Council of Ukraine a draft law amending the Constitution of Ukraine. The purpose of the bill is to strengthen existing guarantees of the independence of judges, to improve the existing constitutional procedure for the appointment and release of judges, to reduce the role of political authorities in the process, and to address issues related to the activity of judges in the jurisdiction of the organs most of which will be composed by judges. Strengthening the independence of judges is a key issue of constitutional reform of justice, and their existence must be ensured both in the appointment and dismissal of judges and throughout the period of their activities. The current nature of the changes proposed by the Head of State to the Constitution of Ukraine is also due to the fact that the European Commission for Democracy through Law and other international institutions has repeatedly stressed the need to improve constitutional provisions on justice. An analysis of their findings and recommendations shows that it is not possible to bring the Ukrainian legislation into line with international standards without amending the Constitution of Ukraine’s rules relating to the composition and authority of the Supreme Council of Justice of the existing order of appointment and the selection of judges and the related five - year appointment of judges for the first time, the procedure for removing judicial integrity, the procedure for the formation and liquidation of courts. The bill under consideration today contains proposals for resolving these issues. The project is intended to change the composition and order of the Supreme Council of Justice of Ukraine. It is anticipated that 12 of the 20 members of the High Council of Justice will be judges appointed by the Assembly of Judges of Ukraine. In addition, the Supreme Council of Justice will include the Head of the Constitutional Court of Ukraine, the Head of the Supreme Court of Ukraine, the Head of the Council of Judges of Ukraine, which will also increase the number of representatives of the judiciary in this body. Most judges in the High Council of Justice will be able to avoid unjustified pressure on judges in matters of discharge and discipline, as well as to reduce the risk of political influence in making decisions on these issues, since the members of that body will no longer be appointed by other authorities. In particular, I will note that the Attorney General of Ukraine, who will be part of the High Council of Justice for a post in accordance with the bill, will not vote in the High Council of Justice decisions concerning judges, but only in the consideration of issues related to the activity of prosecutors. The project also proposes to change the existing order of appointment and release of judges. It is envisaged that the decrees of the President of Ukraine concerning the appointment of a judge on an indefinite basis, as well as the dismissal of a judge from office, may be approved solely within the limits and on the basis of the relevant submissions of the High Council of Justice. In this way, the involvement of the President of Ukraine in these matters will be the legitimacy of the decisions of the High Council of Justice and give them a high legal status of the act of the Head of State and will in fact become ceremonial acts. Similar provisions apply to the rights of the Head of State to transfer judges, where the decision of the President of Ukraine will depend on the content of the submission of the Supreme Qualifications Commission of judges of Ukraine and the consent of the judge to the transfer. Thus, the primary role of decision - making regarding judicial careers will be the representatives of the judiciary, not the other political authorities. It is worth noting that such an approach is in line with popular European standards and has been supported by the Venice Commission. Another novelty of the bill, directly related to the appointment of judges, is the proposal to cancel the five - year term for the first time. The existence in the Constitution of Ukraine of specific trial terms for judges has repeatedly been the subject of criticism by the Venice Commission and the Parliamentary Assembly of the Council of Europe. Because it was considered a threat to the independence of a judge who could compromise with the political authorities for his election. The bill proposes to waive the five - year term of appointment and to establish that the judge is appointed on an indefinite basis. Regarding the issue of the removal of judicial immunity, it should be noted that according to the recommendations of the Venice Commission, the Constitution of Ukraine should provide for the removal of judicial immunity by an independent judicial body. In view of this, the draft law proposes that consent be given to the detention or arrest of a judge by the Supreme Council of Justice, which will be established in accordance with the requirements of the new Constitution. Taking into account the requirements of the current Constitution of Ukraine, it is suggested that the grounds and procedures for granting or refusing to grant judicial consent to arrest or arrest a judge are determined by law. Equally important is the provisions of the bill, which are proposed for the formation, reorganization and liquidation of the courts, as well as the definition of their network, to be implemented by the laws of Ukraine and not by decrees of the President. Such an approach would allow the Supreme Council of Ukraine not only to determine the legislative principles of judicial activity but also to form the organizational structure of the judicial system of Ukraine. It will also guarantee the stability of the judicial system, because any decisions related to changes must be made by a majority of the constitutional composition of Parliament. The bill also proposes to amend the mandate of the Supreme Court of Ukraine, granting it the right to ensure the same application of the law to all courts of general jurisdiction. The relevant changes will strengthen the role of the Supreme Court of Ukraine as the highest authority in the system of courts of general jurisdiction, create a legal mechanism for the formation of a single case law. An important part of the bill is the position that directly applies to a judge. In this context, proposals made in the bill have a special role to play in raising demands on those who may claim to serve as judges. It's an increase from 25 to 35 years old and I'm working in the law sector from 3 years to 5. There are also proposals to increase the borderline age of the judge and to establish on a constitutional level the principle of competitive selection of candidates for judicial office. The adoption of such changes is called upon to encourage judges to become persons who have sufficient professional and life experience, and to give judges who have reached 65 years of age but who want to work, the opportunity to continue their work as judges. The honourable national deputies of Ukraine, all of these and other provisions of the bill, are aimed at a qualitative transformation of the Ukrainian judicial system, and their content is based on the international standards of judiciality set out in the Explanatory Note to this bill. The proposals presented in this draft Law were analysed by the Venice Commission and the Venice Commission concluded on June 15, 2013. "Convinced that the adoption of these amendments to the Constitution of Ukraine will contribute to the strengthening of the independence of judges, strengthening the role of judges in the decision-making of matters related to their activities, and will provide a basis for further improvement of the legal and regulatory regulation of matters by the judiciary, the judiciary and the status of judges in accordance with international standards." With this bill, the head of state proposes to make another stage of systemic changes in the area of justice, which are based on Ukraine's Euro-Integration Desires. Please support this bill. Thank you for your attention.
ParlaMint-UA_2013-09-05-m0.u55	The report is complete. Ladies and gentlemen, is there a question for Andrew Volodymyrovich? Please sign up. Freedom, National MP Mirny, please.
ParlaMint-UA_2013-09-05-m0.u56	Please pass the word to Andrey.
ParlaMint-UA_2013-09-05-m0.u57	Please pass the word to the People's Deputy.
ParlaMint-UA_2013-09-05-m0.u58	Oleg Knaczykki, the All-Ukrainian Freedom Union. I have this question, this is actually the first part about the public acceptance of these changes, the preparation of these changes. Why was there no discussion before they were sent to the Venice Commission? Why was this process carried out in a hidden way from society? And the second very important question is the balance between the legislative and the executing judicial authorities. You have pointed out that according to the proposed changes, 12 of the 23 members of the High Council of Justice are judges. Of the 11 members of the judiciary, however, there are no representatives of the executive branch. What mechanism of restraint and opposition is foreseen so that there is no usurpation of judicial authority on the part of the Presidential authorities? Thank you.
ParlaMint-UA_2013-09-05-m0.u59	Thank you for that question. First. As far as this bill is concerned. The presidential decree created a constitutional assembly to which representatives of all political forces, scientists, public figures were invited. Everyone could have participated in the draft. The other one. The bill was published in due time and sent to all European expert institutions. In addition, the bill was submitted by the President of Ukraine to Parliament on 4 July. Any political force had the opportunity to register an alternative bill in a 14-day period in order to discuss it professionally in the walls of the Ukrainian Parliament. In answer to your second question, I want to say that not 12 out of 23, but 12 out of the 20 members of the High Council of Justice are judges elected by the assembly of judges. Moreover, we do not propose any representative of the executive branch of the High Council of Justice. Moreover, the President of Ukraine is depriving himself of his quota for the High Council of Justice.
ParlaMint-UA_2013-09-05-m0.u60	Let me finish my answer.
ParlaMint-UA_2013-09-05-m0.u61	Thank you. And the minister of justice is out, and this quota is also going to be missing in the new warehouse of the High Council of Justice. Thank you.
ParlaMint-UA_2013-09-05-m0.u62	National MP Hanenko, Freedom Union.
ParlaMint-UA_2013-09-05-m0.u63	Sveslav Hanenko, faction of the All-Ukrainian Freedom Union. Please pass the word to Valery Karpuntsov.
ParlaMint-UA_2013-09-05-m0.u64	Please give Valery to Karpuntsov.
ParlaMint-UA_2013-09-05-m0.u65	Dear colleagues! Dear reporter! A very important project, a very important topic: strengthening the guarantees of the independence of judges. And this is not a simple act of law, this is a draft amendment to the Constitution. Volodymyr Vasilovich, first of all, does not have a comparative table and an explanatory note to the deputies. That's the first one. The other one. Dear Andrey Volodymyrovich! It's a pretty big question and a big risk that it's going to be questioned. I am glad that the committee reexamined the matter, approved it. But second, both the Rules, and the Constitution, and, by the way, Presidential Decree (No.270/95), which approves the Order on the Order of Practice with Bills and Other Instruments, which the President introduces for consideration by the Supreme Council, namely, paragraph 3 clearly states that the Bill.
ParlaMint-UA_2013-09-05-m0.u66	Let me finish.
ParlaMint-UA_2013-09-05-m0.u67	The President's date and signature apply to documents and legislative initiatives. The subject of the introduction is: The president, the national MPs, the government and the Nutzbank. I wouldn't risk it for everyone, and I'd still be more vulnerable to such serious documents. Thank you.
ParlaMint-UA_2013-09-05-m0.u68	Thank you, Mr. Deputies, for asking. The signature of the President of Ukraine is on this bill, officially sent to Parliament, which can be verified at the Supreme Council Secretariat of Ukraine.
ParlaMint-UA_2013-09-05-m0.u69	Thank you. Have a seat. The report is given to the head of the Committee of the Supreme Council of Ukraine on Legal Policy Valery Volodymyrovich Pisarenko. Please.
ParlaMint-UA_2013-09-05-m0.u70	Dear Vladimir Vasilovich! Dear National Deputies! After considering the mandate of the Head of the Supreme Council at its meeting, a bill submitted by the President of Ukraine amending the Constitution of Ukraine on strengthening the guarantees of the independence of judges (registration number 2522a) from 4 July 2013, the Committee of the Supreme Council on Legal Policy set out the following. The purpose of the bill is to improve the Constitution of Ukraine and to strengthen existing guarantees of judicial independence that will allow for a change in the existing procedure of appointment, release of judges, reduce the role of the political authorities in this process, and allow the delegation of powers to deal with issues relating to the activity of judges, to the knowledge of the organs of which the judges are the majority. In order to achieve this goal, the bill proposes to amend the Constitution of this kind. First. Foreshadow in part three of article 55 the right of each person to a fair and public hearing of a case over a reasonable period of time by an independent and impartial tribunal established by law. The other one. The amendments to articles 85, 125 are intended to establish that the definition of the network of judges, their formation, reorganization, and liquidation are carried out through the adoption of the law. Third. Changes to articles 106, 126, 128 are proposed to improve the order of appointment and release of the judge. It is anticipated that the judge of the General Court is appointed as President of Ukraine on an untimely basis, and it is stated that the decision of the Head of State to appoint judges or release them solely on the basis and according to the Supreme Council of Justice. Four. Amendments to article 122 exclude the term of office of the Attorney General of Ukraine. Fifth. Amendments to article 125 propose granting the Supreme Court of Ukraine powers to ensure the same application of Ukrainian legislation to all courts of general jurisdiction. Six. Amendments to part three of article 126 provide that consent to arrest or arrest a judge is granted by the Supreme Council of Justice for the submission of the Supreme Qualification of Judges. Seven. Changes to the fifth, seventh, article 126 make the distinction between the grounds for the dismissal of a judge and the grounds for the termination of the judge’s terms of office, additional grounds for dismissal, and the order for the termination of the powers of the judge of the Constitutional Court of Ukraine in connection with the end of the term for which he was appointed. The term of office of a judge is proposed to increase to 70 years. Eight. Amendments to article 127 propose to increase requirements for those who may claim to serve as judges, and it is also established that the selection of candidates in court is made solely on a competitive basis. Nine. The changes to part two of article 128 are intended to regulate the conduct of judges, to establish that the transfer of judges is possible only by his consent, and that the transfer to a higher court is made only on a competitive basis. Ten. The amendments to article 129 complement the list of principles of judicial procedure with the principle of automatic distribution of cases between judges. Next. Amendments to Article 131 propose to change the mandate and composition of the High Council of Justice, establishing that 12 of the 20 members. Judges appointed by the convention of judges in Ukraine A meeting of lawyers and a meeting of representatives of legal institutions and scientific institutions will be appointed by two members. The Supreme Council of Justice will include the head of the Constitutional Court of Ukraine, the head of the Supreme Court of Ukraine, the head of the Council of Judges of Ukraine and the Attorney-General of Ukraine. In doing so, it is assumed that the Attorney General of Ukraine does not vote in the High Council of Justice’s decisions regarding judges, and so forth. According to members of the committee, the adoption of the proposed amendments to the Ukrainian Constitution would not lead to violations of Ukraine’s international obligations. The analysis of the bill gives reason to believe that the recommendation of the Council of Europe Council of Ministers (No. 94) has been taken into account in its preparation. "Independence, effectiveness and role of judges" of November 17, 2010, separate provisions of the Convention on the Protection of Human Rights and Fundamental Freedoms, recommendations of the European Commission for Democracy through law. expressed in numerous conclusions. In the light of the above, the Committee on Legal Policy also recommended the Supreme Council of Ukraine's draft Law on Amendments to the Constitution of Ukraine on the Strengthening of Guarantees of Independence of Judges to include in the agenda of the day-long third session of the Supreme Council of Ukraine the seventh summons and to refer to the Constitutional Court to obtain a conclusion on compliance with the requirements of article 157, 158 of the Constitution of Ukraine. Please be supportive.
ParlaMint-UA_2013-09-05-m0.u71	Ladies and gentlemen, do you have a question for Valery Volodymyrovich? Sign up. National MP Osuhovski, please, a question.
ParlaMint-UA_2013-09-05-m0.u72	Let's take it.
ParlaMint-UA_2013-09-05-m0.u73	You're filming. The Fatherland faction, National Deputy Sass. Please.
ParlaMint-UA_2013-09-05-m0.u74	I would like to draw your attention to the fact that, in addressing such extremely important issues as making changes to the Constitution of Ukraine, it is particularly important to follow the procedure for dealing with this issue. You just said you'd consider getting into the agenda and going to the Constitutional Court. But this question, you know, is that the procedure for amending the Constitution is clearly outlined in the Rules. And these are separate things -- putting things in order of the day, and individual things -- they're being considered in a separate procedure -- referring them to the Constitutional Court. This approach to the Constitutional Court is preceded by a number of issues, including the referral to the Constitutional Court. In scientific expertise, in expert institutions that have not been and cannot be done, into the agenda. These are extremely important things. So, reverends.
ParlaMint-UA_2013-09-05-m0.u75	Answer me.
ParlaMint-UA_2013-09-05-m0.u76	Dear colleague, he wanted to share these two questions. The first is the discussion between scientific institutions and the public. The previous rapporteur, as defined by the President, noted that this issue was first of all formed within scientific institutions, public organizations, representatives of the political forces during a discussion at the Constitutional Assembly, approved by the President of Ukraine. The other one. Dear Sergey Volodymyrovich, I am prepared to discuss with you now not in front of the microphone, but the Supreme Council Rules clearly stipulate that the issue of inclusion in the agenda and referral to the Constitutional Court is taken by a single vote, which is the only question. We're going to discuss this with you right now, and we're going to find this issue together in the Rules. Thank you.
ParlaMint-UA_2013-09-05-m0.u77	Thank you. You'll be able to have a break with two experienced lawyers. And I give the word, "Freedom unification," to the People's MP of Peace.
ParlaMint-UA_2013-09-05-m0.u78	Please pass the word to the uncompromising defender of the disabled, Mr. Blackwolf.
ParlaMint-UA_2013-09-05-m0.u79	Please, People's Deputy Blackwolf.
ParlaMint-UA_2013-09-05-m0.u80	Thank you. Blackwolf, Fatherland. I thank Freedom for the word. Dear reporter, look! The main problem with our judges is not independence from executive power, although there is a problem. The main problem, as all people understand it, is their corruption. Will today’s changes strengthen the corruption of the courts, their ability to act as a mob for the benefit of perhaps not even the ruling regime, but for their mercantile interests? And what are the fuses here, in terms of the possible impact on this process? So how much do we keep the principle of power distribution and control, mutual balance and control? And will it lead to the formation of such a mafia caste in Ukraine? Thank you.
ParlaMint-UA_2013-09-05-m0.u81	Thank you, Your Honor, for asking. These changes to the Constitution will allow us to make really, really independent judicial bodies. And our question with you is that we respond to the issue of corruption not only during political discussions but every day. And our question with you is that the legislation will answer that. I hope we can handle this. Thank you.
ParlaMint-UA_2013-09-05-m0.u82	Valery Volodymyrovich, thank you. Have a seat. I'm asking the National Deputies to sign up for the factions. [[B in m in s a l in]] I'll give you my word, we agreed. Got it. Freedom Union, National Deputy Mahjecki. The national MP, Kyde, gave him his word.
ParlaMint-UA_2013-09-05-m0.u83	Oleg Knaczykki, the All-Ukrainian Freedom Union. Dear colleagues! There is really a very big and serious problem today with the issue of justice, its independence, its objectivity and justice, and its legality. Yet what we have with the proposed changes to the Constitution. The analysis of the draft bill gives reason to conclude that its changes to the Constitution will not only solve the existing problem of judicial independence but, rather, preserve it. And in some respects, they're even going to increase the dependence of the judges primarily on the executive branch. The conceptual problem of the proposed changes to the Constitution is that they are fragmented and relate to only a few separate issues of the judiciary rather than to the reform of the judiciary as a whole. The draft amendments are proposed without other possible changes to the Constitution, which may be linked to the independence of judges. Because the independence of the judiciary is not just a matter of selection of judicial personnel, of grounds for the dismissal of judges from office, and of the principles of the formation of the Supreme Council of Justice, which is highlighted in this bill. But this is also a question of the general constitutional principles of democratic legal principles of state action in Ukraine. In particular, what is highlighted is the principle of division of power over legislative, executive, and judicial matters. I would like to point out that by adopting the Constitution, the Constitution, the Supreme Council created a whole system of restraints and contradictions in the triangle of power of the President, the Parliamentary Courts. That is, today, if we take away some restraint mechanism from one branch of power and hand it over to another, we must also foresee that this mechanism is not destroyed and that later one of the authorities does not usurp its own judicial authority. As for what was said in the demands of the Council of Europe and the Venice Commission. Yes, indeed, there are observations and demands on what, regarding the reform of justice in Ukraine. But the basic requirements of the authors also did not say that the interviewer, the co-reporter, was, first, to remove the five-year so-called trial term of the judges, which we absolutely agree with these requirements. And secondly, it's that an authority like the Council of Justice, in its composition, should have more representatives, actually, than the judiciary, which we also agree on. But despite what the Council of Europe has demanded, this bill has set up a lot of mechanisms that will allow the Presidential Authority to usurp its own judicial authority, and this judiciary will not be independent, but will be even more dependent and directly dependent on the executive power, instead the legislative authority will be deprived of all restraints and opponents, as provided for by the constitutional principle. However, despite the fact that this bill really has a lot of negative effects, since Europe requires it, we will support this bill.
ParlaMint-UA_2013-09-05-m0.u84	Thank you. The Fatherland faction, National Deputy Bondarenko.
ParlaMint-UA_2013-09-05-m0.u85	Please pass the word to Arsenius Yatsenyuk.
ParlaMint-UA_2013-09-05-m0.u86	Please. As agreed, we give you the word.
ParlaMint-UA_2013-09-05-m0.u87	The Honourable Head of the Supreme Council of Ukraine! Honorable National Deputies of Ukraine! The Ukrainian opposition, signed by 165 Ukrainian national deputies, namely: the Fatherland faction, the Freedom faction and the UDA faction, prepared changes to the Ukrainian Constitution regarding the real guarantee of the independence of judges and the right of Ukrainian citizens to a fair and fair trial. We have prepared a comprehensive bill that is very different from the bill introduced by President Viktor Yanukovic of Ukraine. And I would like to stress separately the goal pursued by the three opposition factions. We think that totally corrupt Ukrainian courts should go back in time. Corruption in the Ukrainian courts is primarily related to the fact that every judge is appointed and personally controlled by the President of Ukraine and his administration, that every judge fears the prosecutor, fears a security officer, fears that every judge should carry a bribe to the very top, and that such a system has been built for decades. Therefore, our bill to amend the Constitution of Ukraine fundamentally and radically changes the judicial system in Ukraine and does not allow the judge to both feel independent and allow every Ukrainian to have access to justice and to obtain a decision, not by the name of the United States of America, but by the name of Ukraine. So what are the key differences between the Viktor Yanukovic bill and the Ukrainian opposition bill? I'd like to start with the Supreme Court of Ukraine. According to the Constitution of Ukraine, the Supreme Court of Ukraine is the highest judicial institution. This means that the Supreme Court of Ukraine should have the right, including to review cases in the appropriate categories of circumstances defined by law. We believe that the competence of the Supreme Court of Ukraine should be fully restored, namely, the Supreme Court of Ukraine should receive: First. Authorization to ensure the same application of legislation by all courts. The other one. He should be authorized to review various categories of cases. Third. He should be empowered to provide clarifications, which I emphasize are necessary for the execution of all the courts. And the fourth. We believe that the Supreme Court of Ukraine should be granted the right of a constitutional body.
ParlaMint-UA_2013-09-05-m0.u88	Turn it on, two more minutes.
ParlaMint-UA_2013-09-05-m0.u89	The Supreme Court should be given the competence of the body of constitutional jurisdiction, namely: the Sales and Corruption Constitutional Court must be terminated and the powers to interpret the Ukrainian Constitution must be transferred to the independent Supreme Court of Ukraine. The other one. We believe that the President of Ukraine has no right. The first is for the appointment of judges, and we want to leave him with only the ceremonial function of assigning judges, and the final decision should be taken by the High Council of Justice. Secondly, we believe that the President of Ukraine should not decide on the reorganization and liquidation of the courts. This should be done here by the Supreme Council of Ukraine by a separate law. We pass the law, we send the President of Ukraine to sign what courts we eliminate, what courts we make. Now there's a very important element that's not even in Ukrainian legislation. We want to introduce an impeachment procedure for the judge. Today, Ukrainian citizens have no influence on the judicial branch of power. That is why we believe that 20,000 citizens or 150 Ukrainian national deputies should be entitled to begin the impeachment procedure for the judge of the local court. With regard to specialized judges and judges of the Supreme Court of Ukraine, this impeachment procedure has the right to begin when it is violated by 150 Ukrainian national deputies. The impeachment of the judge is a real legal mechanism not only to combat corruption in the judicial system, but also the responsibility of every judge to the Constitution, the law and the people of Ukraine. Low things that also need to be settled. First of all, this applies to the competence of the prosecutor's office. We suggest in the amendments to the Constitution that we make it clear that the function of the general supervision of the prosecutor's office stops once and for all from January 1st of the following year. Separate the jurisdiction of the High Council of Justice. We believe that there should be not 20 but 15 members of the High Council of Justice. And we believe that.
ParlaMint-UA_2013-09-05-m0.u90	Finish up.
ParlaMint-UA_2013-09-05-m0.u91	We believe that, first of all, 10 judges are appointed by the assembly of judges and 5 judges, and 5 members are appointed by the Supreme Council of Justice as the Supreme Council of Ukraine. And finally. Last but not least, it's about so-called administrative posts. Well, it's not up to the High Council of Justice to appoint judges. This is what judges should do at appropriate levels. We think it's the local courts.
ParlaMint-UA_2013-09-05-m0.u92	Last sentence.
ParlaMint-UA_2013-09-05-m0.u93	Organs. It's not the last one, it's a long time to go. The authorities of judicial self - government should appoint executives. We will send our draft amendments to the Constitution to the European institutions, we will bring it to Parliament in order to reach the conclusion of both the Constitutional Court and to complete the procedure for amending the Constitution, which has been tabled by the opposition. Thank you for your attention.
ParlaMint-UA_2013-09-05-m0.u94	The faction of the Party of the Regions, National Deputy Jaroslav Suhi, please.
ParlaMint-UA_2013-09-05-m0.u95	Dear colleagues, I signed up because I was unable to ask a question and get an answer, and I did not get an answer to my question to Alexander Blackwolf. And the question that concerns all Ukrainian national MPs who occasionally receive letters and complaints about unfair court decisions and we are confused, and we do not understand how we can get out, who can get out, and what can be done. Let me give you a few examples. I was personally before the Court of Pecher, who made the following decision: The Commission. There's Sasha there, Sasha. Confirms the head of the holding fund. "The Committee of the Holding Foundation gathers and declares the winner of the competition to be a firm, and in such a firm, take away the package." I was at her reception, she says to me, "Jaroslav Mikhailovich, don't get nervous, I know everything you want to tell me, I've been chosen for life." The removal of the representative oran of power from the formation of the judicial corps means the removal of the legislative branch of power from our functions. We have to protect people's interests. How, how, should we approach whom? We never got the answer to the questions, what kind of safety nets we get from this law, against making unjust decisions. Here, a representative from Fatherland spoke, and he described his leadership as the Supreme Council when, in his memory, judges carried bribes up there for decades. Well, he probably knows what he's talking about, then it was. What's it supposed to be now, and how is it now? If only we had a little less complaints about the judiciary branch. Here the colleagues have already talked about, listen, the independence of a corrupt branch of government is a social evil. Then, according to article 6 of the Constitution, we have three branches of authority. We're balancing the contrast system because one branch of power is completely out of the system of three branches of power, it's on its side, it's unacceptable, it can't be done. And then one more question. Please tell the MPs, and we will vote here for the state budget of Ukraine, and we will have to throw out the financing of the judicial branch of power, so let them raise their own money? How should it continue to look? There are many questions. So as long as we don't get an answer to a clear, clear question is, what is the system of non-abuse, which is to be defended, of non-addiction, of non-addiction of such decisions, when a judge in a fatal accident decides on a conditional term of punishment, and how many such cases? Majors, back me up, you have all these facts in your hands. What is the political will here, and what is the dependence on whom? Dependence on money, which is what is destroying the judiciary’s branch of authority today. He needs to be supported by this project because it's presidential.
ParlaMint-UA_2013-09-05-m0.u96	The Vitalia Klitschka faction, National Deputy Valerius Karpuntsov.
ParlaMint-UA_2013-09-05-m0.u97	Respectful colleagues, citizens, Ukraine have experienced a real crisis with justice and worse. The decisions of the courts sometimes conflict not only with the law but also with common sense. And the European Court of Human Rights has recently moved Ukraine into a category of vicious human rights violators. Almost every case is lost by the state, the state is suffering damage, and the cost is paid. Why is Ukrainian justice not capable of fulfilling its primary function of protecting human rights? Why is there so little trust in the court? The need to reform Ukraine’s judicial system is an objective factor and requires global changes. That is why our faction certainly supports the need to reform the judicial system, taking into account the recommendations of international institutions and the implementation of European standards of justice in Ukraine. However, it is not generally possible to agree with the proposed amendment bill, since its individual positions are quite interpreted by the recommendations of the Venice Commission, are not qualitative and are aimed at strengthening the judges' dependence on power. In particular, according to the bill, the President of Ukraine, on the basis of and according to the application of the Supreme Council of Justice, appoints and discharges judges. It was in the conclusion of the Venice Commission that it was agreed and warned that this very ceremonial function would be so called a function. But in today's conditions, the transfer of powers of appointment, discharge and transfer of judges to the President is even more balanced by the system of state authority and disproportionately reinforces the President's broad mandate and the dependence of judges on him. In addition, the Venice Commission clarified in paragraph 37 of its conclusion that, in order to guarantee the independence of the High Council of Justice, meetings of judges, lawyers, and representatives of the legal institutions of higher education should, in turn, be properly formed. This calls for parallel changes to legislative acts. We find it unwarranted to increase the judge’s age by 70 years. We also note that the bill did not take into account the recommendations of the Venice Commission on the functional immunity of judges on legal responsibility. The bill is characterized by a rather formal approach to taking into account the recommendations of international institutions to improve the constitutional and legal status of the Public Prosecutor's Office. This is just an deletion from the Constitution of a rule that establishes a five-year term of office of the Attorney General of Ukraine. At the same time, in our view, the change that has been introduced is incomplete, and the bill has not even been supported by the Constitutional Assembly, which is formed with the President. Thus, given the urgency of the reform of the judicial system, it is urgent, and our faction will support any reform-oriented change. But at the same time, we emphasize that the bill contains a number of questionable and controversial provisions that will be initiated by our faction. Thank you.
ParlaMint-UA_2013-09-05-m0.u98	Thank you. The faction of the Ukrainian Company, National Deputy Simonenko.
ParlaMint-UA_2013-09-05-m0.u99	Dear colleagues! The problem of judges and the judiciary is primarily the problem of the legal aberration that happens in our country. Today, no one is talking about distrust of judges, that the courts today are entirely dependent on oligarchs, that the courts are corrupt, and that life itself supports all these conclusions. Because today, they can come under the walls of the Supreme Council and say it in a loud voice, and the same coloreds who have been repeatedly deceived, including in courts, Afghans, children of war. The same majors today use the services of the court because they beat and kill people, either drunk or intoxicated, while driving a car and then do not answer. The same judges replace the same article of the former national deputy who killed a man in their own, so to speak, the rule of volunteering, and today, let’s say, it will be a joke. I think we get it here. I mean, once again, I want to emphasize that people today have a very serious concern about the composition of the judicial branch of power. It is because it is part of the whole system. If the system is corrupt, if it's built today on what depends entirely on the will and practically great money of the oligarchs, then the same courts, there's nothing to wait for. And to look naively at this issue, which can be improved by the judicial branch of power under corrupt oligartic authority, it's just a silly thing to tell people openly. That's why we insist today, and the faction of the Company and the Company has repeatedly made proposals. In order to make a fundamental solution to the situation and change it really, there are two things that need to be resolved: the first is to change the political system in our country. And secondly, to elect judges by the people. Then we will have the responsibility of judges, not before the oligarchs, but before the people. And those who live in this territory well know how to conduct judicial action in the area, in the city, in the area, or in the area, or in another person. And by the way, those who very often turn to democracy, democratic principles abroad, in the United States use Soviet experience in electing judges in elections. I'm talking about this so that we can understand how we need to change the situation and improve it. And with regard to this procedure, we have a situation here today not to discuss the content of the project, but we have only one question to resolve today: to refer to the Constitutional Court. We Communists will be consistent, as before, we have always insisted, there is an initiative, let's go to the Constitutional Court. Let the Constitutional Court conclude, after that, we will be discussing in principle here in the hall.
ParlaMint-UA_2013-09-05-m0.u100	Finish up.
ParlaMint-UA_2013-09-05-m0.u101	And our principles of position are exactly what we will stand for when we discuss the content of this project. Today, the Rules only require us to refer him to the Constitutional Court. Thank you.
ParlaMint-UA_2013-09-05-m0.u102	Thank you. Ladies and gentlemen, please sign up for this address. Please sign up. The faction of the Party of the Regions, the National Deputy of the Danube. Please, come in.
ParlaMint-UA_2013-09-05-m0.u103	Dear colleagues, yesterday we had a meeting with our Committee on Legal Policy, at which Andrew Volodymyrovich reported the bill and stopped on the main novels proposed to take account of the demands of Ukraine's European partners. We had an active and lengthy discussion of the project, a very lively discussion, and there were many questions from opposition deputies who had doubts about the effectiveness and relevance of the proposed changes to the Constitution. But there were professional and, in my opinion, comprehensive answers to these questions. It is believed that the level of preparation of the bill and the circle of participants involved in its improvement leaves no chance of doubting the high quality and professional approach. Until the task of diversification, a reasonable delimitation of the powers of the legislative and judicial branches of power. Because the concept of the project itself is based on the basic positions of judicial reform, which was approved by the parliament of the previous summons and has now taken place in Ukraine, and is fully correlated and in line with our basic law. We have all witnessed quite common and unfortunate cases where political battalions have left no less than 50 to 70 people who have come to the Supreme Council from all regions for election or liberation, not only for weeks, but sometimes for years. You can imagine, colleagues, the judge is out of office or the judge has reached his limit age, but Parliament does not pick him on an indefinite basis or dismiss him. Thus, the administration of justice in a particular region, especially at the district level, remains almost in a state of collapse for a long time. The financial component is an unwarranted and heavy burden on the state budget: the salary of the judge, the material aid, the benefit, other social benefits, according to legislation. You and I are national constituents, people with a national attitude who do not hold hands with both hands for power, but for the benefit of the people and society, as well as following the world’s practices, can share and be bound by it. I therefore wholeheartedly support the dissolution of Parliament and the transfer of part of its functions to the High Council of Justice, as provided for in this bill. And I propose to all colleagues who have a healthy mind to support this constructive step towards meeting the real order of the judicial system of Ukraine. Thank you.
ParlaMint-UA_2013-09-05-m0.u104	Thank you. The Fatherland faction, National Deputy Petrenko.
ParlaMint-UA_2013-09-05-m0.u105	Paul Petrenko, a faction of Fatherland, illegally imprisoned Julia Timoshenko. Indeed, the situation that has taken place in the judicial system in recent years requires very serious action by Parliament. But the bill that we have just seen presented by the President in the Supreme Council does not solve the main systemic problems that have arisen in the Ukrainian judiciary. The level of confidence in Ukrainian judges according to social services has fallen to a critical level. Now only two percent of Ukrainian citizens fully trust Ukrainian courts. And this question concerns all aspects of our society's life, starting with those judges who made politically motivated decisions in Timoshenko and in Lucenka, ending with those judges who deprived tens of thousands of Ukrainians of their right to vote, particularly in the district of the 94th District of Susha, where the courts actually disbarred 30,000 votes. Ukrainian citizens have the right to vote. These are also questions that apply to every simple little Ukrainian who goes to the courts. Our citizens are not what they don't trust in the judges, they're afraid of the judicial and law enforcement systems. And that's a major systemic problem. So we're talking about a few things that we're constantly saying that are programmed by our "Paternity" party. First. This is a matter of a systematic and comprehensive reform of the judicial system. The three factions of the opposition developed the corresponding changes to the Constitution, which were already presented by the leader of the Fatherland faction Arsenius Yatsenuk. In addition, we were presented with a number of laws related to the inspection and illustration of government officials, including judges. We have a situation in which judges of various institutions, officially declaring low incomes, live as local barons, and their relatives are millionaires and very successful businessmen. Thus, a judge who does not actually live on a salary cannot do justice honestly. And we have decisions that are made, really, not by the name of Ukraine, but by the name of the United States dollar. I'm going to take a brief look at proposals that are very different from the President's proposals. Those proposals that are enshrined in the opposition bill. First and foremost. We believe that the right to control the judicial system must be restored to the people. This can only be done in one way: when citizens are able to recall the impeachment of judges of all levels. We have enshrined this in our bill by introducing an impeachment procedure for the judge and a local referendum on judges of local courts. In addition, we really want to make an independent system for the selection of judges through the decision-making of the High Council of Justice, which will be chosen without the influence of various political institutions. We want to clear the President's right to create, liquidate, reorganize the courts and grant this right to the Supreme Council by adopting appropriate special laws. Today, the changes proposed by the President are unfortunately subject to the usurpation of control of the judicial system. Because the President will have the right to actually appoint and release judges.
ParlaMint-UA_2013-09-05-m0.u106	Thank you, thank you. The Fatherland faction, National Deputy Abdullin. Yes, the People's Deputy Sobolev.
ParlaMint-UA_2013-09-05-m0.u107	Thank you. Dear colleagues! Now, I've studied this bill carefully, which the President has passed, and I think why is it tabled in Parliament? To make the judges independent? Hardly. Read every article and you'll understand that the judges will now depend or, again, on the body that controls the President's Administration. Or they will be dependent on arbitrary decisions directly by some judicial caste that will govern them. Why is there a reduction or an increase in the term of the prosecutor's authority? The Attorney General of Ukraine before the reform of the judicial system? Have we seen a bill amending the Public Prosecutor's Act? Where the prosecutors continue to have general oversight. Where else does the prosecutor's office have all the rights that do not correspond to the Constitution of Ukraine? Why, then, does the article on the term of office of the Attorney General disappear? And I'm sure that's why. The mandate will remain those who still do not comply with the Constitution. The prosecutor will not be appointed for five years, but perhaps for 10 years, perhaps 15 years. How this will now be defined, not in the Constitution, but directly in the law. The third point that surprises me. Please tell me, how can he control his own system? How can Parliament, other authorities, be deprived of control over the judicial system? All right, assignment. But, excuse me, discharge, the responsibility of the judges for what's going on?Oh, my God! In my opinion, all that is proposed in this project is actually an attempt to simulate only a reform that should ensure judicial self-government and judicial independence. Because independence won't come from outside. This is actually going to be independent of the law and the Constitution of the judiciary. That is why today we are faced with cases, not just business disputes, but cases where political pressure exerted on judges continues to take place in Timoshenko’s affairs, Lucenka’s affairs, and the affairs of dozens of other political prisoners. And I'm convinced that this bill makes absolutely no difference or positive changes. The only thing that makes me happy is just sending me to the Constitutional Court. That's why this is Parliament's right to do it. In fact, though, this bill does not withstand criticism. That's why the draft Act amending the Constitution, which was prepared by three opposition factions and which will be presented shortly, we hope, by the way, that most will likewise support the referral of it to the Constitutional Court for conclusions. That's why our faction will do its job -- it will vote in favour of referral to the Constitutional Court, and then, I'm sure, it has no right to life. Thank you.
ParlaMint-UA_2013-09-05-m0.u108	Thank you. The faction of the Party of the Regions, National Deputy Yuri Miroshnichenko.
ParlaMint-UA_2013-09-05-m0.u109	Thank you, Vladimir Vasilovich. Dear colleagues, let's go back to the content of the discussion itself. I will not remind you all that this bill, initiated by the President of Ukraine, is part of the so-called "European package." We're all talking about European values, we're all saying that we need to treat our judicial system. After all, no one in this room will claim that our judicial system is irreprehensible. Our citizens, as the previous speaker spoke, trust only two percent in our courts. As national MPs, we actually get signals of unjust decisions every day. The president of Ukraine initiated a systematic work that included the experience of foreign countries, primarily European countries, the United States, other countries where there are no problems with the judicial system. How do judges and the judicial system work in those lands? In lands where decisions are credible, where decisions are made by those who determine whether or not the other party is right. An arbitration function is required in the country. And here it is. Based on all the experience that has been suggested, the judicial system must be independent of part of the influence of political institutions, and it must be separate. This is suggested by the President in the formation of the judicial corps. Part two of that bill. The organization of the judicial system, which is the subject of the decision. They also analyzed and proposed the most balanced decision: the system of dismissal of judges, the responsibility of judges. And here my colleague Suhiy spoke of the need to take this into account so that our judges, having complete independence from politicians, would not be tempted to use judicial authority for corruption. In that sense, I think we'll still be working. But by making a strategic choice towards a European-tested non-commercial model of the functioning of the judicial system, I am convinced that we are taking a big step towards making Ukraine truly a European state. Dear colleagues, I call upon all, and the majority, and the opposition, and our non-fractional colleagues to support the President's legislative initiative. Because it's about values. And these values allow our citizens regardless of which vector of integration they support to get a fair ruling in court, this is a decision in both the criminal process and the civil process and the administrative process. Here we go.
ParlaMint-UA_2013-09-05-m0.u110	Finish up.
ParlaMint-UA_2013-09-05-m0.u111	This is about the future of our country and our citizens. Thank you for your attention.
ParlaMint-UA_2013-09-05-m0.u112	Thank you. National MP Oleg Lazko. Please.
ParlaMint-UA_2013-09-05-m0.u113	Oleg Laska, Radical Party. Of course, the court system must be independent in order to continue the thinking of its colleague. And independent not only of the President, but also independent of the MPs. For you know, fellow officers of honor, the Thursday comes when the question of judges is being considered, and almost every one of you is being called by candidates for election. Support, vote. What are you telling them in return? "I will, but give me this apartment, give me this property, give me this business." Isn't that right? Yes. And that's why the judicial system has to be independent of both the President and the deputies. And when a colleague comes out here, the deputy says they're afraid of the judge, unless they're afraid of the prosecutor, I think they're afraid of the MPs. And no less MPs than the prosecutor. It's just places where MPs change. One in power is afraid of those who are in power, then – those who have come to power in opposition – are afraid of them. And judges should fear only the laws and only their consciences, and God, the Lord God, regardless of who is the deputy and who is the president. That's the first one. The other one. When we talk about strengthening the guarantees of the judges' integrity, let's talk about the other side of the medal, about increasing the responsibility of the judge. Because everyone is guaranteed today, and where is the responsibility? When a judge is elected there, and then he sits down, executes the fate of the people, and makes illegal decisions. Consider, then, the most powerful Ukrainian cause — Timoshenko. Why is Judge Kiriev still not held accountable? Why is he instead of sitting in that prison, he gets promoted, he gets apartments from the state and so on? That's what they want to do. So give them all the guarantees and no responsibility. I believe that, along with the guarantee of integrity, there should be strict responsibility for breaking the law when people are abused. Today we have millions of people listening, and I don't think 95 percent of them will find the truth in court. That's how we have the system. So it needs to be changed radically. And I think when we say we should go to Europe, let's listen to Europe's thinking. The Venice Commission, the Council of Europe, supports. Why should we not be supportive? Yeah, that's not all we need. I think we should set a limit on the term of the Attorney-General's mandate. How long does he have to sit there? How many more guys do you have to plant to be replaced? That's why I think there should be a time limit: the deputies are elected, the judges are elected, the prosecutor is to be elected. I believe that there should be a time limit for judges to be limited so that their appointment is not affected by the Supreme Council, let the Justice Council appoint, but there should be a deadline. The most important thing is responsibility. This is when they will answer to the people, to the Lord God and.
ParlaMint-UA_2013-09-05-m0.u114	Thank you. Thank you, time for the show is up. It's a closing statement. You don't have it? There's no final word on the committee. I ask you to invite the deputies of all those who are giving interviews in the towers. Please prepare the national deputies for the vote. Let's move on to making a decision. According to the second part of the fifth article 146 of the Supreme Council of Ukraine Rules, and taking into account the Committee's conclusion, I am voting on the draft Decree (Registrational No. 2522a-P) on the inclusion in the agenda of the third session of the Supreme Council of Ukraine of the seventh convening of a bill amending the Constitution of Ukraine on strengthening the guarantees of the independence of judges and its referral to the Constitutional Court of Ukraine for adoption as a basis and as a whole. People's deputies, please vote. [[11:57:37]] For 377 Against-0, held-1, not voting-28. Decision taken. The factions. Region Party 190, Parenthood 66, Vitaly Calla 29, Freedom 34, Company 32, non-fractional 26. A break is announced in 12.30 minutes. Faction leaders, please come into the office of the Chief of Staff of the Supreme Council of Ukraine.
ParlaMint-UA_2013-09-05-m0.u115	Ladies and gentlemen, we continue our work. I ask you to sit down and prepare for the vote now will be a legislative vote, as we agreed. Invite the deputies to the session room. Dear National Deputies! Announcement. According to article 61 of the Supreme Council of Ukraine’s Rules, according to a personal statement, it is reported that the National Deputy of Ukraine, Novinsky Vadim Vladislavovic, was to be part of the parliamentary faction of the Party of Regions in the Supreme Council of Ukraine. [[Applause]] Ladies and gentlemen, before the vote, I give the floor to Justice Minister Oleni Leonidivni Lukash, please. I'm asking for your attention.
ParlaMint-UA_2013-09-05-m0.u116	People's Honourable Chosen Ones! I ask you once again to return to the Ukrainian Law on Amendments to Certain Ukrainian Laws on Enforcement of Judgments. Thanks to the joint efforts of the factions that are here and represent both power and opposition, we have been able to substantially change the Final and Transitional Positions, leaving only two moments in them: the first is the audit of the State's debt for judicial decisions; the second is the turnaround to which such debt is paid. In view of the agreements reached under the chairmanship of Vladimir Vasilovich Rybak, I would like to announce the text and ask you, taking into account the compromise between the coalition and the opposition and taking into account our Euro-Integration Commitments, to accept this text in the first reading so that we can further elaborate on it later. For the final and transitional positions, see section C, paragraph 3. "3. The enforceable documents of the court’s decisions on the collection of funds or the decision of the court which has gained legal effect are submitted to the public service body within 6 months of the date of entry into force of the Act. If the court’s decision on the collection of funds and the executing documents is based on these decisions, the debtors for which part of the first article 2 of this Act of the subject has not been entered into the time limit set out in this paragraph, this is not the reason for the refusal of the court’s decision. Debt is settled in such a schedule. First of all, debt for court decisions relating to pension and social benefits for alimony, damages and damages resulting from crime or administrative misconduct, disability or other health problems, and loss of a breadwinner is repaid. On the other hand, debt is repaid for court decisions relating to employment relations. In the third instance, debt for all other court decisions is repaid. The size of the budget allocations for debt repayment is determined by the Ukrainian State Budget Act for Ukraine for the corresponding year. Four. In the text of the law, replace "the State Treasury Office of Ukraine" with "the central authority of the executive authority that implements public policy in the field of treasury budget services" in an appropriate way. The other one. "The End of Positions." First. This law takes effect from the day of its publication; The other one. The Cabinet of the Ministers of Ukraine shall ensure that, within one year of the date of entry into force of this law, the debt indemnity of payments for court decisions guaranteed by the State and made on the basis of the legal relations that took place prior to the entry into force of this law. Carry out its own legal acts within three months of the date of entry into force of this Act in accordance with this Act. This is the whole text that the factions agree on. Please support him in the first reading. Thank you for your attention.
ParlaMint-UA_2013-09-05-m0.u117	Thank you. Understand? Ladies and gentlemen, we have agreed on a meeting that we will adopt this law today as a basis and, in summary procedure, we will have the committee make proposals in the second reading. So I'm asking for your attention because we're moving on to making a decision. I would like to vote on the draft Act (Registration No. 2399) amending certain laws of Ukraine (for the enforcement of court decisions) to be removed on the basis of a reduction in the deadlines for preparation for the second reading. People's deputies, please vote. [[12:53:33]] For 340. Against 34, held – 1, not 33. Decision taken. Factions: Region Party 192, Fatherskina 61, Vitalia Clicka Hit 34, Freedom 32, UK Company 0, non-fractional 21. Ladies and gentlemen, the question of the election and release of judges is under review. So let's move on to the question of the election of judges. I invite the head of the High Qualifying Commission of Judges Igor Leonovich Samsin to report. We're already in business, so I'm asking you to report it.
ParlaMint-UA_2013-09-05-m0.u118	Thank you. Dear Volodymyr Vasilovich, distinguished national deputies! According to article 76, part three, of the Ukrainian Law on the Judiciary and Status of Judges, the Supreme Qualification Commission of Judges of Ukraine carried out a review of compliance by candidates for judicial office with the requirements of article 127 of the Constitution of Ukraine, articles 53 and 64 of the Act, and examined the referral of citizens, civil society organizations, enterprises, institutions, organizations of all forms of property, public authorities and local self-government authorities to the activities of candidates for the posts of judges who reached the Higher Qualification Commission of judges of Ukraine at the time of the Commission's consideration of the question of recommending them to serve as judges on an indefinite basis. According to article 85, part one, part one, article 128 of the Constitution of Ukraine, article 78 of the Law on the Judiciary and the Status of Judges, the submission of the Supreme Qualifications Commission of judges of Ukraine and its decisions on recommending candidates for the appointment of judges on an indefinite basis. The following draft regulations are proposed for your consideration. Draft decision on the selection of judges 2498a: To elect judges who were previously elected on an open-ended basis as judges: the Court of Appeal of the Dnipropetrov Region of Taraban Evgen Alexiyovich; the Court of Appeal of the Donetsk District of Jarov Julius Igorovna; The Lviv Administrative Court of Appeal of Kuchte Ruslan Vitaliyovich; Dnipropetrov’s Economic Court of Appeal, John Alexi Hennadyovich
ParlaMint-UA_2013-09-05-m0.u119	Any comments from the National Deputies? National MP Romanyuk, please.
ParlaMint-UA_2013-09-05-m0.u120	It's Vitaly Call's Faction, Roman Romanyuk. Dear Chairman, dear colleagues, today we are invited to choose more than 120 national deputies on an untimely basis. Judges, I'm sorry. I'm sorry. Our faction has always voted in favour of judges, especially those who have no complaints. I would like to address the honourable Igor Leonovich and please inform you that there are no pending complaints or that there are obstacles to the election of judges at today's plenary session. Thank you.
ParlaMint-UA_2013-09-05-m0.u121	Let's just do it separately, not by everyone. By this decree.
ParlaMint-UA_2013-09-05-m0.u122	Roman Sergiyovich, concerning this ruling and the judges present today in the plenary. We have considered all the complaints. There is no pending complaint about the candidates for the plenary session today.
ParlaMint-UA_2013-09-05-m0.u123	Thank you. National Deputy Odarchenko.
ParlaMint-UA_2013-09-05-m0.u124	Thank you, Vladimir Vasilovich. Vladimir Vasilovich, next to me. It's not this decision, but I don't want to do it twice.
ParlaMint-UA_2013-09-05-m0.u125	You don't have to!
ParlaMint-UA_2013-09-05-m0.u126	Listen, please! I've been approached.
ParlaMint-UA_2013-09-05-m0.u127	Let's go! Well, we're considering a specific decision. Let's go. Please. I'll bet you a vote. May I have your attention, national deputies? There will be an observation. It's a decree. The name is, the note is. We're going to mess things up so we don't get confused. I'm betting on the vote on the draft Ordinance (registration number 2498a) on non-registration. Please vote. [[12:58:42]] For 268. Against - 1, holding - 7, not voting - 127. Decision taken. The factions. Tell me more.
ParlaMint-UA_2013-09-05-m0.u128	Draft Order on the Election of Judges (number 2498a-1). Choose judges on an untimely basis: The Lutsky District Court of the Bornos Alla Valerievna District; The Shachtar District Court of the Donetsk Region of Morozov Irina Vasilovna; The Mukatov District Court of Zakarpati district of Kotubei Ivan Ivanovich; Ilchiv City Court of Odessa District of Pushkary Dmitry Viktorovich; Visiting District Court of the Kishnovets region of Ivan Adamovich; The District Court of Chernigiv County of Gypsy Maksim Alexandrovich; Dniprovsky District Court of Kiev Birsu Oksana Volodymyrna; The Solomen District Court of Kyiv Agaphonova Sergia Anatoliyovich; Volin County Administrative Court Andrusenko Oksana Orestovna, Plachy Natalia Borisovna; The Žitomir District Administrative Court of Romancenk Evgen Juriovich; However, I inform the Supreme Council that Romancenko did not attend today's plenary court. He is on an annual vacation. Odessa District Administrative Court of Arrakel Maria Minassovna; The Provincial District Administrative Court of Žukowsk Ludmila Arkadyevna; The Herson District Administrative Court of Acid Olga Josephovna; The Montenegrin District Administrative Court of Solomon Irina Ivanovna; the district administrative court of Sevastopol Kravchenk Mikolaajovic; The Economic Court of the Autonomous Republic of Crimea Dobrorez Igor Aleksandrovitch, the Flooding Sergey Stepanovich; the Economic Court of Luhansk district of Kosenko Tetjan Valeriyovna; Economic Court of the Odessa Region of Cisellian Oleg Volodymyrovich. The economic court of the Kharkiv district of Rilova Victoria Viacheslavna Economic Court of the Chernigiv district of Belova Sergia Valeriyovich.
ParlaMint-UA_2013-09-05-m0.u129	Dear National Deputies! Is there a note? The national deputy Yavorowski.
ParlaMint-UA_2013-09-05-m0.u130	Vladimir Yavorowski, Kyiv, Trinity I'm asking you to remove it from the list of candidates in this list. I'll explain later why.
ParlaMint-UA_2013-09-05-m0.u131	What court?
ParlaMint-UA_2013-09-05-m0.u132	Kharkiv Court
ParlaMint-UA_2013-09-05-m0.u133	Rilova. No more remarks? Please, Hanna Herman. Please.
ParlaMint-UA_2013-09-05-m0.u134	Dear Mr. Head! There was information that Judge Romanchenko was on vacation each year. I think that if you want to come to Parliament, you can stop your vacation. I believe that this candidature should be temporarily rejected and waited until it finds time to come to Parliament.
ParlaMint-UA_2013-09-05-m0.u135	Any more suggestions? Ladies and gentlemen, please prepare for the vote. We're removing Ril's Victoria Vyachelavna. And, indeed, a man should have come here to be appointed. And Romance Eugene Yuriovich. Next time, let us consider. Therefore, with the deletion of these two candidates, I am putting to the vote the draft decree (registration number 2498a-1) on the selection of judges on an uninterrupted basis, please vote. [[13:03:05]] For 264 Against 0, held – 8, did not vote – 125. Decision taken. The factions. Please report further. 2498a-2. Report.
ParlaMint-UA_2013-09-05-m0.u136	Draft decision on the selection of judges number 2498a-2. Choose judges on an untimely basis: Obukhiv District Court of Kiev, Stepanov Oksana Sergiyevna; Kyiv District Court of Odessa Chwankin Sergey Anatoliyovich; The Winning District Administrative Court of Krapivnicki Natal Leonidivna; Volin County Administrative Court of Lozov Alexander Anatoliyovich; Zitomir District Administrative Court of Chernolikhov Sergija Viktorovich; Ivano-Frankiv District Administrative Court of Ostapuk Sergija Vasilovich; The Kyiv District Administrative Court of Panov Hanna Valeriyovna; Odessa District Administrative Court Marina Petrovich; Kharkiv District Administrative Court Kuhar Marina Dmitrovna; District Administrative Court of Sevastopol Vodjakin Sergija Anatoliyovich.
ParlaMint-UA_2013-09-05-m0.u137	I beg you, who's got a note? The national deputy Yavorowski.
ParlaMint-UA_2013-09-05-m0.u138	I ask to be removed from the list for the time being from the Cook, Kharkiv district, the judge will be elected on an open-ended basis. Take it out for now, I'll explain my motives.
ParlaMint-UA_2013-09-05-m0.u139	Chef. People's Deputy Kilinkarov, please.
ParlaMint-UA_2013-09-05-m0.u140	Vladimir Vasilovich, I ask you to remove Krapivinski Natal Leonidivna. This is the Wynnick County Court.
ParlaMint-UA_2013-09-05-m0.u141	Yes. Yes. Yes. Okay. I'm betting on a draft ruling (number 2498a-2) with the exception of two candidates who have called the judges termless. Please vote. [[13:05:56]] For 260 For -260, against -0, held -5, did not vote -130. Decision taken. The factions. Draft Decree 3177 is under consideration. Please.
ParlaMint-UA_2013-09-05-m0.u142	To elect judges previously elected without delay in the positions of judges: the Court of Appeal of the Dnipropetrov Region of Sweden, Tetjana Anatoliyevna; the Court of Appeal of the Donetsk Region of Miruta Olga Anatoliyevna, Khalaji Olga Volodymyrna; the Court of Appeal of the Luhansk Region of Orlov Igor Volodymirovich; the Court of Appeal of the Montenegrin District of Vladican Anatolia Ivanovich; Zitomir's Administrative Court of Shidlovsk Viktor Bronislavovich.
ParlaMint-UA_2013-09-05-m0.u143	Is there a note? People's Deputies of Labunsk, please.
ParlaMint-UA_2013-09-05-m0.u144	Please delete from the list of Šidlovski Viktor Bronislavovich (Yitomir Administrative Court of Appeal).
ParlaMint-UA_2013-09-05-m0.u145	Please, National Deputy Herman.
ParlaMint-UA_2013-09-05-m0.u146	..if the MPs explain the reason for the expulsion. Because you can't do that without knowing the reason why you want to get kicked off the list. I think we need to argue the problem. And then decide to make a decision to exclude it from the list.
ParlaMint-UA_2013-09-05-m0.u147	Hanna Mikolayevna, we're going to make all the decisions now, and then we're going to come back, listen to the MPs, and we're going to make the decision. Yes. I'm betting on the vote, we're excluding Szydlovski Viktor Bronislavovich from the list. And I'm putting to the vote the draft Ordinance (registration number 3177) on the selection of judges on an uninterrupted basis. Please vote. [[13:08:17]] For 257 Against 0, held – 5, did not vote 134. Decision taken. The factions. A draft Supreme Council Regulation (No. 3177-1) is under consideration.
ParlaMint-UA_2013-09-05-m0.u148	To serve as judges of the Court of Appeal of the Czernovets region of Lunin Sergio Viktorovich. But I would like to report that he did not attend the plenary meeting of the Supreme Council. To be appointed judges of the Donetsk District Administrative Court of Krilova Marina Mikolayovna.
ParlaMint-UA_2013-09-05-m0.u149	Any comments, suggestions? Please, People's Chamberlain.
ParlaMint-UA_2013-09-05-m0.u150	Please postpone Luna's candidacy, including his absence from the hall.
ParlaMint-UA_2013-09-05-m0.u151	Thank you. He's not here. Let's get off the list. And I'm putting to the vote the Bill (No.3177-1) on the election of the judge on an untimely basis. Please vote. [[13:10:03]] For 261 Against-0, held-6, did not vote-130. Decision taken. The factions. A draft decision of the Supreme Council of Ukraine (3177-2) is under consideration. Please.
ParlaMint-UA_2013-09-05-m0.u152	Choose judges on an untimely basis: The synonymous District Court of the Dnipropetrov region of Greece, Yuri Valeriyovich; Amur-Loweredniprova District Court of Dnipropetrovska Rudenko Victoria Vasilovna; Lutugini District Court of Lugansk District of Subocchin Tetjana Victorian; Stahanov City Court of Luhansk, Jurchenko Innu Mikolayevna; Borislav City Court of Lviv district of Slice Andrija Teodorovitch; Kremenchuck District Court of Poltava District of Kolotyev, Alexander Alexandrovich; The Hussetin District Court of Ternopil district of Baran Ella Mikhailnov; Krasnograd District Court of Kharkiv district of Dudchenka Vitali Aleksandrovitch
ParlaMint-UA_2013-09-05-m0.u153	Any notes? None. I'm betting on the vote on the draft Ordinance (registration number 3177-2) on the selection of judges on an uninterrupted basis. Please vote. [[13:11:35]] For 265 Against-0, held-5, didn't vote-125. Decision taken. The factions. The draft Decree of the Supreme Council of Ukraine (No. 3177-3) is under consideration.
ParlaMint-UA_2013-09-05-m0.u154	Choose judges on an untimely basis: The Dnipropetrov district court of the Dnipropetrov district of Shabanov Andrija Mikolaiovich; The Kirov District Court of Dnipropetrovska Kazaka Sergija Yuriovich; The Mikolai District Court of Lviv district of Karbovnik Igor Mihajlovich; The Central District Court of the City of Mikolayeva, Gretchen Svetlana Ivanovna; The Brezni district court of the province of Ravenna, Melniczuk Ninel Vasilovna; The Lubotic City Court of Kharkiv, Malikhin, Alexiyyovich; Shevchenkov District Court of Kharkiv County, Tordiya Eteri Nugzarovna; The Starocostinian District Court of the Hmelnick district of Bondarczuk Larissa Anatoliyevna; Dnipropetrovska District Court of Kiev Katyushenko Vito Petrovna, Kovalenko Innu Viktorovna; Wynnicki District Administrative Court of Donchick Vitali Volodymyrovich; Volin County Administrative Court Valucha Viktor Mikolaiovich, Dimarczuk Tetjana Mikolayovna; The Gitomir District Administrative Court of Tokarev Maria Sergiyevna; The Kyiv District Administrative Court of Tokarev Maria Sergiyevna; The Kyiv District Administrative Court Volkov Andrija Stanislavovich, Lisk Igor Grigorovitch; Odessa District Administrative Court Balan Jaroslav Volodymyrna; The Commercial Court of the Suman district of Svetlana Volodymyrna; the Commercial Court of the Hmelnicka District of Zaveruh Sergey Volodymyrovich; Economic Court of the Czernovetsk Region of Hončaruk Oleg Valentinović.
ParlaMint-UA_2013-09-05-m0.u155	Does the National Deputies have a point? National MP of the Dzardanov.
ParlaMint-UA_2013-09-05-m0.u156	Please remove Gretchen Svetlana Ivanovna, the Central District Court, the city of Mikolayev.
ParlaMint-UA_2013-09-05-m0.u157	Any more notes? None. We take out Gretchen Svetlana Ivanovna. And I'm putting to the vote Project 3177-3 on the selection of the courts on an uninterrupted basis. Please vote. [[13:14:32]] For 261 Against 0, held – 6, not voting – 131. Decision taken. The factions. See Decree 3177-4. Report.
ParlaMint-UA_2013-09-05-m0.u158	Choose judges on an untimely basis: The Dnipropetrov District Administrative Court of Efanov Olga Volodymyrna; Donetsk District Administrative Court Babas Hanna Petrovna, Tarasenko Igor Mikolaiovich; Judge Žitomir District Administrative Court Kapinos Oksana Valentinovna did not attend today's plenary session; To appoint Judge Ivano-Frankiv of the District Administrative Court, Lucko Oksana Alexandrovna; The Lviv District Administrative Court of Gavdik Zinovija Volodymyrovich, Gulika Andrija Grigorovovich, Karpjak Oksana Orestovna, Sakalos Volodymira Mikolajovic; Odessa District Administrative Court Potocki Ninel Volodymyrovna, Stefanov Sergey Alexanderovich; The Ternopil District Administrative Court of Derech Nadia Volodymyrna; Kharkiv District Administrative Court Panchenko Olga Volodymyrovna, Staroseltsev Oksana Valeriyevna; Cerkas District Administrative Court of Garany Sergey Mikolayovich; The Montenegrin District Administrative Court Brezin Tetjan Mikolayevna, Levitsky Vasil Kostjanović; The Montenegrin District Administrative Court of Smyrnov Olga Eugenyevna; the district administrative court of Kyiv Kuzmenka Valeriy Anatoliyovich; The Economic Court of the Mikolai district of Marododyv Marina Volodymyrovna, Rzepecký Viktor Alexanderovich.
ParlaMint-UA_2013-09-05-m0.u159	Is there a note? None. I'm betting on the vote on the draft Ordinance (registration number 3177-4) on the selection of judges on an uninterrupted basis. Please vote. [[13:16:55]] For 256 Judge Cappinos Oksana Valentinovna, she's not here, and we agreed not to discuss the matter. Please, we're looking at 3177-5.
ParlaMint-UA_2013-09-05-m0.u160	Choose judges on an untimely basis: The Kramator City Court of the Donetsk Region of Sklarov Vladimir Viktorovich; The Bologna District Court of Donetsk Taraňov Valerija Sergiyovna; The Kirov district court of Donetsk Yuryev Tamara Ivanovna; The Priazova District Court of the Zaporozhye District of Pantilus Olen Pavlovna; Malovski district court of Kirovograd district of Kavon Tetjan Volodymyrovna; The Santa Claus District Court of the Mikolai district of Yanchuk Sergey Vasilovich; The Yellow District Court of the Kozachenko Roman Viktorovich district; The Central District Court of Mikolayeva Goodenko Olga Andriyevna, Rudjak Andrija Aleksandrovič; The Suvorov district court of Odessa, Vinogradova Natalija Viktorovna; The Global District Court of Poltava District of Levitsk Tetjan Volodymyrna; The Ravenske City Court of Ravenscek Marijan Mihajlovich, Harechka Sergija Petrovich; The Novochakov City Court of the Cherson district of Cirsky Hennady Mikhajlovich; Biological District Court of the Hmelni district of Barabbas Natalija Sergiyevna; The Bologna District Court of Kiev, Dmitruk Natalija Yuriyovna; Darnitsky District Court of Kiev Korinuk Alla Mikolayevna, Cimbal Irina Constantine; The Cave District Court of Kiev Busik Olen Leonidivna, Novak Roman Vasilovich; Delilah District Court of Kiev Pavlovenko Olen Aleksandrovna; The Solomonian District Court of Kiev Korobenka Sergia Vitaliyovich, Kryvor Oksana Alexiyevna; Shevchenkov District Court of Kyiv Pyhur Olenu Vitaliyevna
ParlaMint-UA_2013-09-05-m0.u161	Any notes? National Deputy Odarchenko.
ParlaMint-UA_2013-09-05-m0.u162	Vladimir Vasilovich, I ask you to exclude from the list of Dmitri Natalija Yuriovna. I was approached by the citizens of Rosemette and Zaporeznik with documents and complaints about her activities, which, in my view, bear signs of a breach of an oath. So I ask you to exclude these complaints from the list.
ParlaMint-UA_2013-09-05-m0.u163	Doesn't anyone have any more notes? We exclude Natalia Juryevna from the list of Dmitrik and we vote on the draft Decree (registration number 3177-5) on the selection of judges on an indefinite basis. Please vote. [[13:20:16]] For 257 Against 0, held – 9, did not vote 131. Decision taken. The factions. The draft Decree of the Supreme Council of Ukraine (No. 3177-6) is under consideration. Please.
ParlaMint-UA_2013-09-05-m0.u164	To elect judges who were previously elected on an open-ended basis as judges: the Court of Appeal of the Viennese Region of Pottery Mikolaiovich; the Court of Appeal of the Dnipropetrov region of Ribyanz Sergey Anatoliyovich; the Court of Appeal of the Lviv Region of Melniczuk Olen Jaroslavna; the Court of Appeal of the Plain Region of Jeremeichuk, Sergey Volodymyrovich, Marinic Vijacheslav Karpovic; Dnipropetrov's Administrative Court of Appeal, Ivanov Sergio Mikolaiovich.
ParlaMint-UA_2013-09-05-m0.u165	Is there a note? None. I'll bet you a vote. Please, Bobkov, MP. Please.
ParlaMint-UA_2013-09-05-m0.u166	Please withdraw from the trial of Ivanov Dnipropetrov's Administrative Court. There's a complaint.
ParlaMint-UA_2013-09-05-m0.u167	No more remarks? Let's exclude the rulings from this list. And I'm voting on the draft Ordinance (registration number 3177-6) on the selection of judges on an uninterrupted basis. Please vote. [[13:22:09]] For 257 Against 0, holding back, 8, not voting, 131. Decision taken. The factions. Have we considered all your decisions?
ParlaMint-UA_2013-09-05-m0.u168	Yeah.
ParlaMint-UA_2013-09-05-m0.u169	All of them. Now we're going the other way. That's the last decision we're gonna make. Ivanov Sergey Mikolayovich, is he? Yeah, that's good. What questions? Who asked questions about him? National Deputy Bobkov, turn on the microphone.
ParlaMint-UA_2013-09-05-m0.u170	There is a complaint from the steel mining plant of Colimbeth N.V. In the case of this judge, an improper decision has been made.
ParlaMint-UA_2013-09-05-m0.u171	I beg you, what? Do you know anything?
ParlaMint-UA_2013-09-05-m0.u172	We don't have that kind of complaint. We've all considered the complaints for today, here's all the complaints. If you have such a complaint, please refer it to the Higher Qualifying Commission, we will consider and make decisions.
ParlaMint-UA_2013-09-05-m0.u173	Dear national MPs, you know, there may be complaints, but it doesn't mean anything yet. I'm asking you, Valery Volodymyrovich, you know, that way you can go. Please, Pisarenko.
ParlaMint-UA_2013-09-05-m0.u174	Dear Vladimir Vasilovich, your honor, you know, I would like to remind you that today we have sent to the Constitutional Court a draft law of amendment to the Constitution, where this function from Parliament in general departs. So you and I are moving away from the political influence of the judges. And now you and I are listening to the head of a commission representing an independent judicial body. So if they have reviewed all the complaints and if they do not have such complaints, it is our duty to support such a judge, to continue his work. Thank you.
ParlaMint-UA_2013-09-05-m0.u175	Sergei Mikolaiovich, you. Do you know about this complaint? Who spoke? Is this the first time you've heard of it?
ParlaMint-UA_2013-09-05-m0.u176	All the complaints they made, they were sent to the High Qualifying Commission, she was looking.
ParlaMint-UA_2013-09-05-m0.u177	I'll bet you a vote. I'm asking the people's deputies. I'm betting on the election of Judge Ivanova Sergio Mikolaiovich to the judge on an untimely basis. Please vote. [[13:25:13]] For 208 Against 3, held – 43, not voted – 140. The decision is not taken. The factions, please. Consider the candidate, Dmitruk of Natalia Jurijovna. Is she there? There's Dmitri Natalia Yuriovna. You can go to the microphone.
ParlaMint-UA_2013-09-05-m0.u178	Yes, I'm here. Good afternoon, everyone!
ParlaMint-UA_2013-09-05-m0.u179	Who raised that question? I beg of you, National Deputy Odarchenko.
ParlaMint-UA_2013-09-05-m0.u180	Vladimir Vasilovich, literally a few days ago, was addressed to me by the citizens of Razmetov and Zaporec with a complaint by Judge Dmitruk Natalija Jurijivni. I have formed this package and passed it on to the Higher Qualifying Commission and to the Committee, and I ask you to postpone consideration of the matter for now. From my point of view, the judge's actions bear signs of a breach of oath.
ParlaMint-UA_2013-09-05-m0.u181	Please, Igor Leonovich.
ParlaMint-UA_2013-09-05-m0.u182	I want to point out that here at Judge Dmitruk Natalia Yuriovna today, this is my information, well, no complaints. Maybe they didn't. Maybe they're in the process, they're coming to us. We will consider this complaint, but he has a complaint today.
ParlaMint-UA_2013-09-05-m0.u183	Natalia Yuriovno, what can you say?
ParlaMint-UA_2013-09-05-m0.u184	I don't know about these complaints.
ParlaMint-UA_2013-09-05-m0.u185	You don't know?
ParlaMint-UA_2013-09-05-m0.u186	I don't know.
ParlaMint-UA_2013-09-05-m0.u187	Right. I'm asking the MPs to identify themselves. I am voting on the motion to elect the judge of the Vosius District Court of Dmitruk Natalija Jurijovna on an uninterrupted basis. People's deputies, please vote. [[13:27:30.]] For 215 Against-6, held-39, didn't vote 138. The decision is not taken. The factions. [[B in m in s a l in]] I'll read it. If you have an offer, I'll give you my word. We've got it. We're looking at Project Rule 3177-3. Candidate for the Central District Court of Nikolayev Svetlana Ivanovna Grecana I beg you, MP of the Zardanov.
ParlaMint-UA_2013-09-05-m0.u188	Judge, the young judge of Grecana Svetlan Ivanovna has submitted the Lapatin alimony case four times in respect of the senior court only because the defendant is the clerk of the economic court. Judge Grecana took the case. As a result, alimony has been held for 2 years by a young woman!
ParlaMint-UA_2013-09-05-m0.u189	Guys, we just missed the whistle in the hall. Some shout, others whistle, what do you turn the Supreme Council into? I beg you, is Svetlana Ivanovna Gretchen there? There's a microphone in there. Do you have any data, Igor Leonovich?
ParlaMint-UA_2013-09-05-m0.u190	I have a number of complaints. There's information, there's a number of complaints, and here's what I can tell you, if that's the necessity that was being considered by the Higher Qualifications Commission. We concluded that there was no reason for the judge to be involved in disciplinary responsibility, since all complaints related to her procedural activities.
ParlaMint-UA_2013-09-05-m0.u191	Thank you. National MP Kuzmuk, please. Turn on Kuzmuk's microphone.
ParlaMint-UA_2013-09-05-m0.u192	Dear Volodymyr Vasilovich, dear colleagues! Right now we're showing the judges and the country a great classic example of how to get a settlement. If a complaint is not filed with the High Qualifying Commission, and someone who does not like the judge, the individual national deputy, is on the phone, we pass the verdict and we do not approve it. So I ask you to come back and listen to me, to John and to others. Not to order a verdict. Thank you.
ParlaMint-UA_2013-09-05-m0.u193	Please, Adam Ivanovich Martinyuk. Ladies and gentlemen, don't knock, but vote in favour. You're shaking. Kuzmuk says so. Please.
ParlaMint-UA_2013-09-05-m0.u194	Dear colleagues, what we are doing now is our direct constitutional duty. We're going to make changes to the Constitution, we're going to do things differently. And you and I are now national deputies, whose Constitution, the basic law, obliges us to decide whether to appoint or not, that is, to elect judges. And we follow the Constitution. And any accusations to the people's deputies that you're obliged to do that, first take this rule out of the Constitution. That's the first one. The other one. What is involved with a particular judge. Please listen: For two years, she had four cases handled by the next judge. Why? Because the one who was to pay alimony worked as a cleric in a higher court. Here's your answer to the question. Please don't support me.
ParlaMint-UA_2013-09-05-m0.u195	I'm asking the People's Department of Capplin, Sergey Capplin. Please.
ParlaMint-UA_2013-09-05-m0.u196	Sergey Kaplin, strike party, 144 constituency, Poltawa. Volodymyr Vasilovich, and I also want to address those who appoint judges: "Don't laugh, please, the whole country today. You look at the faces of young people who will decide tomorrow the fate of ordinary Ukrainians. You'll soon be bringing your children here with no passport and assigning them to judges!".. And I say the proposition of the common people who are now out of the street saying, "Whom you brought here as a flock of sheep to show!".. Judiciality must be exercised by experienced people! Absolutely experienced people! They turned the court into a labor market for their children! As long as it lasts in this country!
ParlaMint-UA_2013-09-05-m0.u197	Anna Herman. Please.
ParlaMint-UA_2013-09-05-m0.u198	I'm asking the leader of the Young Boxer's Strike Party and the politicians to consider that we can't discriminate against people of any age. I urge young voters not to vote for political power that prevents young, talented, professional people from participating in the life of the State.
ParlaMint-UA_2013-09-05-m0.u199	Last Oleg Easy and we'll be clear. We have many laws! Take your time! Please.
ParlaMint-UA_2013-09-05-m0.u200	Oleg Lazko, Radical Party. I want to say, fellow MPs who aren't happy with young people going to court, to MPs, somewhere else, millions of Ukrainian boys, girls without jobs today, they have retired people who have long grown up like moss stumps. They need to be pushed to the neck. And young people were brought to power. And you're young and you're protesting against young people. I think it's a catastrophic political mistake. Ukraine’s Future for Youth. And young people in the third millennium are to be ruled by both the country and the courts, and in the Supreme Council be still. And let older ones help young ones with knowledge, experience, and so forth. Youths to Power! Young people will make radical changes in the country and will make arrangements.
ParlaMint-UA_2013-09-05-m0.u201	Let's support Oleg Lachak. I beg you, Pisarenko, and we vote.
ParlaMint-UA_2013-09-05-m0.u202	Dear Vladimir Vasilovich, distinguished colleagues, given that we have now raised a degree, I have such an offer. All those judges for whom there are complaints that we have not made today are now put off. And we're going to ask the Higher Qualifying Commission to work with this to show us next time what's with these complaints: there are, there's no, there's no, there's no. So we don't waste any time. Thank you.
ParlaMint-UA_2013-09-05-m0.u203	Today's nominations, we have to vote and say yes or no. So I'm voting for the election of the judge of Svetlana of the Greek judge on an untimely basis. Please vote. [[13:35:47]] For-75 Against 38, held 61, did not vote 213. The decision is not taken. I want you to turn on the microphone of the People's Deputy Bobkov. Please.
ParlaMint-UA_2013-09-05-m0.u204	I agree with the representative of the commission, the committee, and I take my question to Judge Ivanov.
ParlaMint-UA_2013-09-05-m0.u205	Ladies and gentlemen, National Deputy Bobkov is asking to vote for Judge Ivanov Sergey Mikolayovich. So, please, we've come back many times. I'll put it to a vote. It is man’s destiny as a mistake, so let us correct it. I would like to vote back on the motion of Judge Dnipropetrov's Board of Appeal, John's Sergey Mikolaiovich. On my return, I ask the people's deputies to vote. About the return. Don't shout. Vote. [[13:37:39]] For 208 We didn't vote-166 against the-8. It's not a decision we make, we're not going back. Lunan's not here. We won't. Yeah, he's not here, we're not looking. Next. Set up 3177. Zitomir Administrative Court of Shidlovski Viktor Bronislavovich. There was a question, please turn on Labunski's microphone.
ParlaMint-UA_2013-09-05-m0.u206	You know, I don't want to agree with MPs who say national deputies shouldn't look into complaints. Now, I just want to pay attention, Igor Leonovich, to the life trials, I've sent you ten complaints, and I haven't received a single answer at all. What is happening today in Lifetime? With the change in the register, the land rations are being redistributed today. When there's a court decision, when there's expertise and it's established that people didn't sign the lease, the judge closes his eyes and says they signed, you don't know. And the Jewish appeals courts, the administrative courts, don't have any judges who haven't heard the appeal at all, they're still in effect. If village heads protect people, such village heads, with the help of the police and the prosecutor’s office, are removed. And in the decisions of the courts, they write what decision should be taken by the village council and the village head be removed. So this is a question of both the judge and the situation in Zitomirsk. Not one of my complaints is pending.
ParlaMint-UA_2013-09-05-m0.u207	No, it can't be that way. There is a specific claim to Viktor Bronislavovich. Please tell me what a specific claim is and we'll ask him.
ParlaMint-UA_2013-09-05-m0.u208	Yes. The man took part in the consideration of the land rations rental case, which is the Ruzyn district of the Yagnatsk Village Council, where there is an expert report that people have not signed and left in force. My complaint has not been considered, the answers, unfortunately, I have not received.
ParlaMint-UA_2013-09-05-m0.u209	I was looking at this question, Victor Bronislavovich. Where's the judge? Please explain.
ParlaMint-UA_2013-09-05-m0.u210	Please specify which area? You said the Ruzy district. I work as a judge in the Lubbar district.
ParlaMint-UA_2013-09-05-m0.u211	Listen, you're working. This and Lubarsky refer to, you're going to the Zitomir Court of Appeal. And I'd like to ask my colleagues at the Strike Party to give them a little bit of attention to what they're talking about. What's going on in Zitomirst with regard to the pies.
ParlaMint-UA_2013-09-05-m0.u212	What specific questions do you have for me, please?
ParlaMint-UA_2013-09-05-m0.u213	Let's confirm his judge and he'll watch. It shouldn't be the same, dear friends. I'm asking, Hanna Hermann, the deputy of this area. Please.
ParlaMint-UA_2013-09-05-m0.u214	Dear friends, what we have just heard from the mouth of the MPs from the opposition, the usual political pressure. Because someone has not considered a claim there, she has been making a total accusation against all the judges in the area of Zitomir. I don't think there's any room to be allowed in. I believe that Judge Ivanov’s case has also occurred, and we too must correct this mistake once again.
ParlaMint-UA_2013-09-05-m0.u215	I beg of you, National Deputy Zharavsky.
ParlaMint-UA_2013-09-05-m0.u216	Dear colleagues! I respect all the deputies who have gone through the list and majors, including the honourable Mrs. Labunski, who has honestly chosen this right to represent the interests of the elections in the higher legislative body of Zitomirsk. But I'm also elected to 66 constituency, and I know this person as a decent, highly qualified person who has nothing to do with corruption. This is the first time. Secondly, we have to provide an independent judicial branch of power, independent and independent of the Supreme Council, which we are repeatedly reminded of from the Council of Europe. Therefore, it is not possible to blame a person for nonexistent sins. I'm asking you to support this man. Thank you.
ParlaMint-UA_2013-09-05-m0.u217	I'll bet you a vote. [[B in m in s a l in]] You have no relation to Zitomirsk. I'm voting for the election of Viktor Bronislavovich Szydlowski's judge on an untimely basis, please vote. Please vote. I can't vote anymore. The vote goes, what are you doing? [[13:43:03]] For 178. Against – 2, held – 7, did not vote – 198. The decision is not taken. Dear National Deputies! There are two more candidatures, I see the hall is swollen, let's assign the manager to look at all the judges. According to all these judges, all the complaints and reports are made to the Supreme Council. [[B in m in s a l in]] Well, I put it to a vote, you don't vote. Go and vote. Sergei Vasilovich, go vote. Igor Leonovich, we're going to confirm all the judges to whom there was no claim, because this is what's going on in the hall right now, he says. No, we're not. And the claim, when I ask, is there a deputy? I don't know, I don't. Please. The MPs said: Consider all the candidates and make us an offer at the next meeting of the Supreme Council. Where there is an error, we must correct the error. So let's welcome the elected judges and wish them fruitful work. [[Applause]] Thank you.
ParlaMint-UA_2013-09-05-m0.u218	Thank you.
ParlaMint-UA_2013-09-05-m0.u219	Ladies and gentlemen, let's move on to the question of the release of judges. I invite the head of the High Council of Justice, Alexander Volodymyrovich Lavrinović, to report. Draft Decree 3178 is under consideration.
ParlaMint-UA_2013-09-05-m0.u220	Dear Mr. Head! Dear National Deputies! The Supreme Council of Justice, pursuant to part five of article 126 of the Constitution of Ukraine and article 131 of the Constitution of Ukraine and article 100, paragraph 9, of the Law on the Judiciary and the Status of Judges, article 31 of the Law on the Higher Council of Justice, reviewed the materials on the dismissal of judges under general conditions and decided to submit the relevant application to the Supreme Council of Ukraine. Judges find the reality of their personal will. There is no adverse influence or coercion when they make decisions when they are released. Of the 11 judges, 8 were 65 years old. Three have shown a desire to be freed before they reached the age limit for being a judge. The Higher Council of Justice proposes that the judges be dismissed: The Supreme Administrative Court of Ukraine, Gordijczuk Maria Petrovna, in connection with the application for resignation; the Court of Appeal of the Autonomous Republic of Crimea of Katarov Pavel Georgievovich - in connection with the application for resignation; the Court of Appeal of the Kirovograd Region of Medvedenko Jurija Sergiyyovich - in connection with the application for resignation; the Court of Appeal of the Lviv Region of Momot Volodymyr Ivanovich - in connection with the application for resignation; The Court of Appeal of the Kharkiv District of Fedushina Love Mikhaylovna - in connection with the application for resignation; The Trieste District Court of the Vinnitsk district of Kapusz Sergey Ivanovich - in connection with the application for resignation; By the Bologna District Court of Donetsk Siberia, Victor Petrovich, in connection with the application for resignation; Zavor District Court of Pediatrics, Ivan Mikolayovich, in connection with the application for resignation; The Kyiv District Court of Kharkova Donec Olga Vitaliyevna, in connection with the application for resignation; The court-martial of the Ternopil district of Kolubayev, Valentina Alexandrovna, in connection with the application for resignation; The economic court of Sevastopol Alsufiev Viktor Volodymyrovich - in connection with the application for resignation. Please support the will of the judges and the decision of the High Council of Justice.
ParlaMint-UA_2013-09-05-m0.u221	Sit still, let's take a closer look at the questions. What are some questions for Alexander Volodymyrovich? People's deputy Sanchenko.
ParlaMint-UA_2013-09-05-m0.u222	I don't have a question. It is requested that Alsufiev’s candidacy be postponed until the next sessional week to determine some of the circumstances under which the application for resignation was made. Thank you.
ParlaMint-UA_2013-09-05-m0.u223	What question? Sevastopol. Alexander Volodymyrovich.
ParlaMint-UA_2013-09-05-m0.u224	Dear colleagues! Alsufiev Viktor Volodymyrovich, aged 65, wrote his own resignation application to confirm the members of the High Council of Justice. I don't know what you're going to do.
ParlaMint-UA_2013-09-05-m0.u225	People's MP Bobkov, please.
ParlaMint-UA_2013-09-05-m0.u226	Please also defer consideration of the candidacy of Siberian Viktor Petrovich, head of the Belogonov District Court. Well, it's not public information, I explained to the committee manager.
ParlaMint-UA_2013-09-05-m0.u227	Alexander Volodymyrovich.
ParlaMint-UA_2013-09-05-m0.u228	The Siberian Victor Petrovich, born in 1948, was 65 years old, has no right to administer justice in connection with the constitutional situation, has personally filed an application for resignation, and has personally been found by members of the High Council of Justice.
ParlaMint-UA_2013-09-05-m0.u229	Ladies and gentlemen, two names while we're shutting down. And I'm voting on the Supreme Council of Ukraine Order on the release of judges, with the exception of two names. Please vote for the people's deputies. [[B in m in s a l in]] People's deputies, please vote. Who's yelling? [[13:50:44]] For 232 We've made up our minds. Two candidatures: Siberian and Alsufiev will be considered separately, Alexander Volodymyrovich?
ParlaMint-UA_2013-09-05-m0.u230	Dear Vladimir Vasilovich, I am unfortunately unable to see the subject to be considered here, because the Constitution of Ukraine clearly defines the age of the judiciary and, in addition, these judges do not want to be released from retirement, they want to resign. And those who are present in the hall, I think they understand what it means to them a little bit better. And now to ban people from resigning when they have written their own statements and want to, and all circumstances, such as pressure, arise individually from each judge. In this case, the result of these studies shows that judges want to resign. I don't understand why I'm looking at anything at all.
ParlaMint-UA_2013-09-05-m0.u231	Dear National Deputies! The deputies raised questions. You listened to Alexander Volodymyrovich's answer. That's why I'm voting for the resignation of Siberian Viktor Petrovich. People's deputies please identify themselves. Vote. [[13:52:22]] For-200 Against – 1, held – 33, did not vote – 144. The decision is not taken. The factions. I am voting for the resignation of the judge of the household court of Sevastopol Alsufiev Viktor Volodymirovich. Please vote for the people's deputies. [[13:53:02]] For-200 Even for 200, against 3, held – 30, did not vote – 144. The decision is not taken. The draft Regulation 3178-1 is under consideration. Please.
ParlaMint-UA_2013-09-05-m0.u232	Dear National Deputies! The Supreme Council of Justice, pursuant to article 126, paragraph 5, of the fifth part of the Constitution of Ukraine, article 105 and 111 of the Law on the judiciary and the status of judges, article 32 of the Law on the Higher Council of Justice proposes to release Grishenko Vladimir Mikhajlovich from office as judge of the Industrial District Court of Dnipropetrovska in connection with a violation of the judge's oath. Judge Grishenko, at the opening of his trial in an undiscovered local general court, had allowed for substantial infringements of the requirements of the law established by the Court of Appeal and confirmed by the Supreme Court of Ukraine. The foregoing shows that Judge Grishenko, when dealing with the case, allowed for a violation of the requirements of legislation as a result of his negligence and objectivity. All the facts of the judge’s violations are set at the High Council of Justice and the decision to submit them accordingly to the Supreme Council of Ukraine. The Supreme Council of Justice believes that the violation of Ukrainian law by Judge Grishken indicates prejudice in the execution of justice that violates the title of judge, and hence the failure to perform judicial duties. But there is a reason for the judge to be released from office for breaking an oath. Please support the application of the High Council of Justice.
ParlaMint-UA_2013-09-05-m0.u233	Is Grishenko in the hall? Turn the microphone on in the stands, turn it on.
ParlaMint-UA_2013-09-05-m0.u234	There's no snack in the hall. And I want to prove that we have a report of a personal telegram that informed him about the time of the plenary meeting. Here's a message for the Crucifixion.
ParlaMint-UA_2013-09-05-m0.u235	I'll bet you a vote. Romanyuk, Vitaly Klitschak Faction, please.
ParlaMint-UA_2013-09-05-m0.u236	The strike faction will support the stated decision and the submission of the High Council of Justice and will vote in favour of the corresponding draft ruling.
ParlaMint-UA_2013-09-05-m0.u237	I'm betting on the voting bill of Decree 3178-1 on the release of Judge Grishenko Vladimir Mikhailovich from office. People's deputies, please vote. [[13:56:17]] For 226 Against – 1, held – 5, not voted – 141. Decision taken. The factions. Any questions, Alexander Volodymyrovich?
ParlaMint-UA_2013-09-05-m0.u238	For today.
ParlaMint-UA_2013-09-05-m0.u239	The morning session is closed. At 16 o'clock, let's get back to work.
