ParlaMint-UA_2013-04-17-m0.u1	Good morning, distinguished national deputies, invited and guests of the Supreme Council of Ukraine! Please calm down, sit down and prepare for registration. Turn on the "Race" system. [[10:03:24]] There are 367 national deputies registered in the hall. The morning session of the Supreme Council of Ukraine is open. We have today the birthday of our national deputies. Let's say hello. Iluka Artema Alexandrovich, birthday. [[Applause]] And let's congratulate Kuzmuk Alexander Ivanovich on his birthday and wish us the best [[Applause]] Ladies and gentlemen, I'd like to draw your attention. I was brought here with photographs where MPs don't vote in person. I think we need to assign a committee to look into this. And I want to speak to the deputies: all deputies should vote in person for themselves. And I'm going to send these photos to the committee to see them. Makeenka, yes. Dear national deputies, in accordance with article 25 of the Rules on Wednesday, we have 30 minutes to make speeches by national deputies with proposals, announcements, and messages. So I'd like the National Deputies to sign up for the speech, please. Post-faction national MP Labazük. Please. Is there a national MP?
ParlaMint-UA_2013-04-17-m0.u2	Please pass it on to Jeremiah.
ParlaMint-UA_2013-04-17-m0.u3	Please pass it on to Jeremiah. Someone's screaming very loud. Ladies and gentlemen, let's calm down. Let's listen to the national MP.
ParlaMint-UA_2013-04-17-m0.u4	Dear National Deputies! Dear Head! A few months ago, every political leader represented in the Supreme Council stood in front of the electorate in the halls and heard from the Ukrainian people the word that pension reform was short, which is a lot of questions. And it needs to be canceled. And every political leader approached the Ukrainian people and said, "I'll do everything I can to reverse the pension reform." I'm more than convinced that 250 people's deputies in this room and elected in one-maned districts have heard from the Ukrainian people at each meeting that there is a need to cancel or make changes to pension reform. Already in the Supreme Council Hall today, we hear several times when some political forces are conducting speculation around the pension reform, telling us that they are hurting the Ukrainian people, and they are trading their positions in the executive branch. Not long ago, the minister of social policy, without coming down from television screens, Ukrainian television screens, assured the entire Ukrainian people that it would be the first to change pension reform or abolish pension reform. But nothing is happening today in the state. We have a wonderful opportunity today -- 250 people's deputies in the Supreme Council. Today, there are three bills (the law of Dennis, Mishchenka and Lithuania) that together can solve the problem of all 10 million pensioners and the main ones are those who plan to retire. I believe that for the Ukrainian people, however political power has proposed a bill. Everyone in this room is responsible for 46 million Ukrainians. And there should be no political ambitions, we should unite, make a decision -- and find the political will to vote in the first reading for these laws all together, regardless of who in the majority or minority, to work on and at the next meeting to adopt this law and to report to the Ukrainian people that there were 450 deputies in this room who actually remember that they had promised what they had come to the election and for what they were responsible to the Ukrainian people. Thank you for your attention.
ParlaMint-UA_2013-04-17-m0.u5	The faction of the Ukrainian Company, National Deputy Gerasimchuk.
ParlaMint-UA_2013-04-17-m0.u6	I'd like a word with Zubčevsky.
ParlaMint-UA_2013-04-17-m0.u7	National MP Zubcevski, please.
ParlaMint-UA_2013-04-17-m0.u8	Dear colleagues, dear voters! For half a year, Parliament has been a hostage to the political situation and blackmail. The so-called opposition has become new and new causes for blocking the work of Parliament, making the Supreme Council in fact a circus and a ballad. Secondary problems have been imposed on society, without addressing or drawing attention to those who are really interested in creating new jobs, raising wages and paying timely wages, abolishing anti-national pension reform and many other social issues. Against this background, the Government benefits from such a situation in Parliament when there is no demand and no responsibility for the state of the economy. And there is something to ask for, above all, for the decline in industrial production, the stopping of metallurgical enterprises, huge payroll debts, the lack of support for the domestic producer. The steps taken by the Government of Ukraine are thoughtless and lack any strategy and strategy. In virtually equal places, officials and government officials are creating problems and then heroicly trying to solve them. A specific example is the situation of the country's ferro-floating enterprises, which, due to the early introduction of electricity benefits, have been halted and reduced by mass workers. These enterprises are currently forced to restore their production, but electricity benefits are only introduced by the end of the year. Righteous question: What about the next: stop-of-business again? The same situation with AutoZAZ. The native car manufacturer was brought to a halt and a critical situation and then introduced import duties on foreign markets, partly critical problems in the realization of products. Why couldn't you have done that before? Indeed, tens of thousands of workers and their families are behind such late decisions. It is an alarming and foreign-policy course in Ukraine. The delay in joining the Customs Union for our country ends with the loss of the Russian and Belarusian markets and as a result of the destruction of domestic production. The European market for our goods continues to be locked down. The Cabinet of Ministers is often a foreign observer in support of State enterprises. That is why the Berdian company AZMOL, which is experiencing bankruptcy, is very much confirmed. Salaries amount to 5 million bracelets. There are massive reductions in the plant. The working month shall be no more than 14 days. And the last. In accordance with the Cabinet's decree, another privatization of the people's property of six archers will take place, in particular from the hammer, the shares of Ternopoloblanergo, Zaporozhyeöblenergo, Harkovoblanergo, Hmeljnikkoblanergo, Čerkasobelenergo, Nikolaevoblenergo. It's not hard to figure out what's at stake. A new shift in tariffs to electricity, a shift in energy into private hands. The Communists are categorically opposed to the privatisation of the olenergo and demand that it be done.
ParlaMint-UA_2013-04-17-m0.u9	Finish it.
ParlaMint-UA_2013-04-17-m0.u10	The Communists are categorically opposed to the privatisation of Oblenergo and demand that Kabmin immediately suspend the privatization of the people's property and abolish the relevant order for six energy companies. Thank you for your attention.
ParlaMint-UA_2013-04-17-m0.u11	Party of regions. Please.
ParlaMint-UA_2013-04-17-m0.u12	Dear colleagues, Ukraine is a multinational polyculture country. This wealth of our country, recognized at the UN and UNESCO levels, is proud of the whole world. Our homeland has more than 20 languages a day, more than 130 ethnic groups. They are all full nationals of the country, the nation-forming peoples. That's fact number one. You will not find anywhere else in the world such as Ukraine, which has given birth to three languages: Ukrainian, Russian and Belarusian, one of which, Russian, is the international language of the United Nations, and today 14 and a half million Ukrainian citizens speak in Ukraine. And these people want to be driven into the language ghetto, into the harmony of the Galician ideology of neo-Naziism, which was also condemned by Ivan Franco, Mikhail Dragomanov, Pavel Speedadsky. Dear colleagues, it has recently been nine months since the adoption of the Law on the Fundamentals of Language Public Policy. Remember how professional pay-per-view fighters shouted about the country's split, the death of the Ukrainian nation and language, the revolution, the civil resistance? But all of this happened in their inflamed imagination. Nothing happened. That's fact number two. In nine months, we received over 100,000 letters and expressions of gratitude. That's fact number three. The adoption of this language law has been a small step for politicians and a major step for Ukraine. The law has democratically allowed more than 80 per cent of real language conflicts and attempts to destroy this law, a direct violation of Ukraine's civil peace. That's fact number three. However, several political provokers and neo-Nazis remain terrorizing the language environment. Recently, the media demonstrated the beastly MP “Freedom”, who waved his mandate to humiliate the cashier on Kiev's Poznaks only because she spoke Russian in her native language. On 6 April, there was a difference between inter-national hostility and xenophobia, another fighter with his people, a national MP from Fatherskin Ariev, who, using expressions of hatred against shopkeepers only for speaking Russian, made the original Kiever Sergey Ion's statement, quote: "Go to your Donbass". Further uncensored language. Only because he made a comment to the Hamu MP. I appeal to the citizens of Ukraine, to the left side and to the centre of Parliament, not to address neo-fascism, as was the case recently during the vote in favour of the draft Decree banning the language of hatred and offensive ethnic expressions. This betrayal is the will of most Ukrainian citizens. I would like to recall that fascism and neo-Naziism are an anti-human ideology. It spares neither the left nor the right. According to the experience of a German fascist, they and others ended up in concentration camps. Their teeth lie next to the awesome museum regiments of Buchenwald.
ParlaMint-UA_2013-04-17-m0.u13	Let me finish.
ParlaMint-UA_2013-04-17-m0.u14	And the last. I am sure that the future of our country, its national idea, lies in equal tolerance, friendship and cooperation among all citizens of social groups, when human rights prevail. Neonism will not pass.
ParlaMint-UA_2013-04-17-m0.u15	The Fatherland faction, Suškević. Please turn on the Suškević microphone.
ParlaMint-UA_2013-04-17-m0.u16	Thank you, Vladimir Vasilovich. Dear colleagues, Fatherland faction, National Deputy Suškević. The faction authorized me to make a statement in connection with the fact that you and I will not be sitting in this room until after May 9. And our faction cannot but draw the attention of Parliament and the Ukrainian authorities to the problems of our veterans and the disabled of the Great Homeland War. Dear colleagues, on January 1, 2013, there are 1 million 689,000 war veterans living in Ukraine. 182 thousand 896 war invalids and 231 war fighters. And now, dear fellows, I ask you to pay attention to another terrible figure the day before the Great Victory Day. Every year the number of war veterans decreases by 200,000 veterans. 200,000 of our country's defenders go into eternity every year. I ask you, the faction is paying attention to today's power to this terrible figure. And it would seem that the level of social support and social protection for these people should improve. But today, we're talking to you today about pension reform, today there are a lot of war veterans who get a minimum pension, and every year there's a sharp decline in the level of security for war veterans on the way to sanatorium treatment. The amount of money spent on servicing the veterans of the Great Home War in hospitals has not been reviewed in five years, since Timoshenko’s government increased the support of these people in the hospitals of the Great Homeland War. Every year, there is a sharp decline in the provision of all social benefits. And today, on the eve of May 9, veterans are paying attention to at least one substantial payment to the Day of the Great Victory that they receive, they should receive by the Day of the Great Victory. Today, it is three times smaller than that provided for by legislation. Yesterday, it was said that the President of Ukraine was planning to review the state budget of Ukraine. So what I want to remind you is that the government of Timoshenko, not before May 9, but when the National Budget of Ukraine was adopted, decided to pay our veterans of the Great Homeland War and the disabled of war the practically full amount that is provided for by legislation. And in 2010, Parliament, according to Timoshenko's government, adopted this decision. I'm speaking on behalf of the faction, the Fatherland faction is turning to today's government, to Parliament, let's say before 9 May we increase the expenditure of the state budget on the social support of our veterans. Let us return what the government of Timoshenko has done for these people before the Great Victory and increase the cost of the state budget to support the veterans and the disabled of the Great Homeland War. Thank you and I hope for your support.
ParlaMint-UA_2013-04-17-m0.u17	The faction of the Party of the Regions, the national deputy of Bandurov.
ParlaMint-UA_2013-04-17-m0.u18	May I have the floor to the National Deputy of Svetlana Fabricant?
ParlaMint-UA_2013-04-17-m0.u19	Please, the People's Deputies of Svetlana Fabricant.
ParlaMint-UA_2013-04-17-m0.u20	Prepare, I'll talk about southern Ukraine, about Odessa, and about all those associated with the sea. The need for the restoration of national shipping has long been ripe and will build up specialists and representatives of the maritime industry. Having such a beneficial relationship with the maritime boundaries envied by any European Power, our country cannot help but have its own fleet, it is illogical. Unfortunately, everything is interlinked: our labour resources, our lost resources, which could work internally and, most importantly, to the prosperity of an independent Ukraine. In due course, the 18th President of the United States, Ulyss Grant, in his address to Congress, said in 1870 that the words that I consider necessary to repeat now in 2013 were: “It is humiliating for our people that we, apart from passenger money, pay foreigners 30 million dollars a year for freight to be made on our ships supplied with crews from our citizens. This money is taken away from the income of the people, and nothing else can be said of them except that they are thrown into the sea. Our nation, with such large sources of support, must be fully involved in world maritime trade.” It has been said centuries ago, but it is not necessary to be seven feet into the forehead or a great strategy to really not think about the problem that is vehemently and accurately heard in these three proposals. Today, we continue to place on the labour market of foreign countries a highly skilled workforce, our specialists raised in Ukrainian marine universities, which is 150,000 sailors. On the one hand, yes, they do feed their families, but on the other hand, they do not pay taxes in their State. As a result, social insecurity, lack of adequate pensions. I can say that it is the national shipping campaign that could catalyse the fundamental changes in the labour market picture. Another fact is that the country lacks currency gains without a full fleet and a marine functioning infrastructure. Whole sectors of the economy are simple and unrequited. Odessa has always been the maritime capital, the first commercial harbor in the royal Russia. During the Soviet Union, the MLC was one of the largest maritime enterprises in the world and made huge profits to the State, and today it has only been 20 years. 20 years ago, there were 295 vessels on the balance sheet of the MCS. Today, GDP in maritime transport is steadily declining. Now it is more than two per cent, while, subject to the effective utilization of the capacity obtained on the day of Ukrainian independence, the figure could be more than 20 per cent. We can talk about feasibility indefinitely, now that the Ukrainian flag has emerged in the Maritime International Navigation, I do not see any obstacles, we need real steps. The algorithm is consistent and simple: the process of bankruptcy of the CMP needs to be stopped, as debt levels are much lower than the logistic base available. Appoint a new leader for this.
ParlaMint-UA_2013-04-17-m0.u21	Let me finish.
ParlaMint-UA_2013-04-17-m0.u22	Designate a new head of the enterprise, who, unlike the current sanator, will re-establish the business and not eliminate it. Complete the sanction procedure, conduct internal and external audits, settle the debts of the MLC, return illegally held funds to Ukraine from the sale of vessels and the real estate of the MLC from abroad. That's all we can do with you and today's government. Thank you.
ParlaMint-UA_2013-04-17-m0.u23	The "Fatherland" faction, Pavlovsky's national deputy, please.
ParlaMint-UA_2013-04-17-m0.u24	Andrey Pavlovsky, faction of the politically imprisoned Yulia Timoshenko "The Fatherland". Respectable compatriots! As for the discussion of which language to speak from Parliament, I'd like to mention the classics -- Engelsa, who said, "If a person lives in a country and doesn't know his language, it's a guest or an invader," so make your conclusions about who you are. () [[Applause]] And the second. The opposition demands that a service investigation be carried out, in a manner that once again, contrary to the Rules, resulted in lobbyist corruption bills for money laundering through so - called financial bills. But with regard to the Ministry of Assembly and Income, which the people have already called "minds", the Rules do not allow these issues to be considered at this session and returned to them. At the same time, if you look again, opposition factions today demand that you reconsider the restoration of self - government in Kiev and appoint city leaders and the Kiev City Council. Just like that! [[Applause]] I would like to point out that the Committee on Social Policy recently addressed the issue of Ukraine's implementation of the European Social Charter. And you know that paper is one of the two main documents of the Council of Europe in the field of human rights. And when government officials on a full scale said that paper (think about it!) It's only 26 percent, so I'd like to ask what you're saying. To be honest, you know it's not being implemented at all. Have the oligarchs and government officials repent that you are not returning money from the offshore, the money of the Ukrainian people. Then, if you were to return them, you could provide an appropriate European level of social standards. And then why is it surprising that the wages in Ukraine are the lowest on the European continent, and the living level is lower than the physical needs of the person to whom this subsistence minimum can be called "mortal". Because these antisocial standards drive the Ukrainian people to the grave. If the oligarchs go shopping in Europe, buy elite property there, apartments for 130 million euros, and their children live and study in Europe, it may be time for Ukraine to fully ratify the European Social Charter so that all Ukrainians can feel at least some minimum European social standard. Not by 26 percent, but by 100!
ParlaMint-UA_2013-04-17-m0.u25	The faction of the Party of the Regions, Gregory Kaletnik. Please.
ParlaMint-UA_2013-04-17-m0.u26	Dear Vladimir Vasilovich, distinguished fellow national MPs, dear hardworking villagers, voters! The agricultural sector, taking into account its size, plays an extremely important role, as evidenced by a number of important and exceptional documents. Most of them are that the share of agriculture in the gross domestic product of the state is already more than 20 percent. Trends in recent years have shown a gradual recovery of our agricultural sector, and there is a role, a positive role, in this regard, in the Ministry of Agrarian Policy and Food. The agricultural sector is steadily increasing production volumes, the APC's enterprises have increased tax revenues to the consolidated budget in recent years by 11 times, a record positive external trade balance of more than $10 billion in 2012 has been reached, and the amount of taxes and collection by the agar sector of the economy is more than 42 billion dollars, which is significantly higher than budget support for the sector. Thus, under the current conditions, the branch not only performs an important social function but also contributes to the filling of local budgets and government budgets. The representatives of the agrarian sector, speaking from this rostrum, have always begun with the words "the village is dying." I want to say today that not only does the village not just die, but it works beautifully, our talented hardworking people achieve such fine results. I want to say that the village provides food security for our country today and many issues are being resolved, even the village is being levelled with the city. If everyone today complains about Ukrainian roads, consider that such roads in the village have always been and they do not complain about them today. Finally, a peasant’s dream came true, and they were always nervous when they read that five, six billion dollars were being allocated to support the village. And they didn't get that money. Now the village is running, and there's no money in the budget. And I think it would be the right thing to do for the government to solve two more problems. First problem. This needs to be offset by tax burdens, since agroholdings do not carry social burdens, they need to be removed from the special tax regime, because only peasant farmers and medium-sized farmers today live in rural areas and live in rural problems. And we need to eliminate the employment centers. It's a free change of funds. What can be the unemployment in the village?
ParlaMint-UA_2013-04-17-m0.u27	Finish it.
ParlaMint-UA_2013-04-17-m0.u28	I'm done. Today, 3.5 million hectares [3.5 million ha] of the three million people working in a village of about one and a half hectares [1.5 million ha]. So of course. What employment is, the village works, and the cost of employment centers is better spent on retirement. And I think Oleg will support it with two hands. Thank you.
ParlaMint-UA_2013-04-17-m0.u29	The Fatherland faction. Blacksmith, please.
ParlaMint-UA_2013-04-17-m0.u30	Thank you. Vladimir Vasilovich, first of all, I'm addressing you. Too bad there's no Kaletnik, 'cause that's a question for him, too. He's, I take it, your responsibility for the formation of the agenda. Look, your Presidium reminds me of the young team of Chernevski. I don't understand why you're allowing yourself to violate the Supreme Council Rules, which are adopted as a law. Yesterday, we discussed eight drafts. Seven bills and they were all rejected. Oh, there's a kaletnik! And they've all been rejected. They're back in the morning. Is it not for us to write the Rules, adopted as a law that says that if we have considered this session once, it is the second time in the fall? You promised we'd have a third session. Will it? Will there be a referendum? And they're going to let us go.
ParlaMint-UA_2013-04-17-m0.u31	Keep going.
ParlaMint-UA_2013-04-17-m0.u32	Oh, no. So that's a question for you. You're going to answer now. I'm asking you to do the math. Well, look, what have we got seven questions that haven't been scheduled for the day and week, and they've been broken since yesterday? That's the first question. The second question. The next was due yesterday's agenda for Wednesday's first, second question was pension legislation, and then four bills on the organisation of power in Kiev. Now they're being suspended to 15-19th place, so we're not going to look at them today, because today we're just not going to be able to do that until two o'clock. So I think we should give up this agenda and follow the order of the day that we've been given for a week. We're going to start two drafts of pensions and then we're going to start an organization in Kiev. I would ask you not to confuse this with the election in Kiev, this is an organization of power in Kiev. Now. There was an offer from Pavlovsky. He made the right proposal, for the decision can be considered, even though every day the same one, the Rules allow it. The law cannot be considered. So the election in Kiev, you can ask the mayor if you want, and all the other questions: in promissory notes and so on, budget changes can't be made, it's a violation of the gross law. Next question. Dear friends, Vladimir Vasilovich, why don't you protect the deputies? You must be for each of the deputies the person representing her interests. He's going to the district administrative court now, an entirely illegal court over Deputy Odarchenko. Do you know what they've discovered about him? Because he filed a bill for the dissolution of the administrative court. And that's why they put it on him. And there's more. Because he was actively involved in the election of Mayor Kyiv and Kyivrada. This is not an election to Kyivrada and the mayor of Kiev, and a person from the deputies who do.
ParlaMint-UA_2013-04-17-m0.u33	Let me finish.
ParlaMint-UA_2013-04-17-m0.u34	It's totally illegal, because he's accused of being a member of an enterprise that doesn't exist, that he seems to be a member of the government there, even though he didn't know what such an enterprise was. So with huge violations, the issue was taken up: without a date, when it was given, it was not reported, that is, totally illegal actions in court. I think we all have to protest, and you, Vladimir Vasilovich, first. Please answer these two questions.
ParlaMint-UA_2013-04-17-m0.u35	Finish it. As far as the answers are concerned. There are no statements from the Head of the Supreme Council. And as for the question, we're going to go over these questions right now, and I'm going to give you a chance, all of their thoughts will say, and we're going to talk about this. The faction of the Ukrainian Company, Mikhailenko, please. And we'll finish. [[B in m in s a l in]] It'll be time, we'll go on.
ParlaMint-UA_2013-04-17-m0.u36	Mikhailenko Olga Dmitrovna, faction of the Communist Party of Ukraine, Hersonian. Dear national MPs, distinguished voters! Once again, I would like to draw attention to the problem of the inefficient use of agricultural and non-agricultural land, the dispossessing of agricultural land, the lack of funds and local budgets, particularly in Hersonian. As in Ukraine, the heads of regional and district governments are single-handedly managed by the wealth of the Ukrainian people, the land. Today this right is handed over to officials from the State. And as always, local self - government has been limited. In the Chaplin region of the Herson region, 24,000 acres [24,000 ha] of land was transferred to a foreign firm called the Vishva Andanda for a lease of 49 years. This structure has already changed more than one owner and manager, owed 13.5 million dollars for land rentals, including more than 10 million dollars to people for land rations, a large amount of wages to employees in the enterprise, and that is only one area. Thank you. The same is true of Scadovian, Holocaust, Zurich, Calancean, and other areas of the region. Another example from the land issue. The city’s head, Aleksandar Viktorovich, is sorry, for which it is not clear on what grounds has been removed from the responsibilities of the head, protects the interests of the territorial community to receive funds from the use of land about two acres [2 ha] in the city, in the center of the city. And the New Cooperation Society, registered in the city of Jenakieva Donetské region, has raided the market for more than two years, has been avoiding land use payments. Instead of upholding the just demands of the city’s head, the law - enforcement officer and the head of the Namitulayev Paradise government began the persecution of an official supported by the city’s community. So is the situation in Calancek. Malishenko Galina Volodymyrna’s head of the Reich administration is closing her eyes on what markets are in the center.
ParlaMint-UA_2013-04-17-m0.u37	Thank you. Let me finish.
ParlaMint-UA_2013-04-17-m0.u38	They haven't paid taxes on the budget in years. Another example. The head of the Herson District Administration, Kostak Mikola Mikhajlovich, issued a permit on 20 April 2012 for the development of projects for land ownership in the area of the City Council on the Black Sea coast of the city’s green resting area, a child’s beach with no agreement with the City Council of Scandinavia. Executive authorities, law enforcement officials, and law enforcement officials do not act in order on these issues, are limited to write - downs on parliamentary requests. So I demand that the government, the law enforcement structures, use the necessary.
ParlaMint-UA_2013-04-17-m0.u39	Thank you. Thank you. Please. Unplug the microphone. Showtime's up. Two MPs asked for a minute to reply. Please, Miroshnichenko Igor, Freedom. Turn on the microphone.
ParlaMint-UA_2013-04-17-m0.u40	Igor Miroshnichenko, faction of the All-Ukrainian Freedom Union. I'm talking to the Ukrainians. The Ukrainians, the captors of the criminal and oligarchic system, the descendants of the Moscow-Major occupation regime, with Ukrainian names and the sacred idea of protecting human rights, continue the policy of genocide of the Ukrainian people. Their main goal is our language. That's their main target. Without language, there is no state, for without language there is no nation. In the 20th century, they shot Ukrainians for embroidery. In the 20th century, they deported people to Siberia in Ukrainian. We know how they published the Emic circulars, the Emical decrees, the Valyov circulars. We know a number of documents that have banned and where they legitimized Ukrainian language, because of our language they hate us today. And today some MPs accuse us of fascism because we live on our land and want to speak our own language.
ParlaMint-UA_2013-04-17-m0.u41	For the replica, the national deputy Ariev. And let's move on to the issues.
ParlaMint-UA_2013-04-17-m0.u42	Vladimir Arier, the city of Kyiv, the original Chinese. In this room something has been very often used in the past few days to use the "fascism" letter, accusing other people of fascism. But those who scream most about fascism, I suggest you read the definition of fascism, and find signs of your party in this phenomenon, the disgraceful phenomenon, and the signs of your leader, who are actually under the leadership of a fascist organization, fit. Why do some Sebastopol deputies today add extra oil to the fire of national hostility? This is done specifically to divert society's attention from the beggarly state, from the terrible situation in the economy, from the abolition of democratic freedoms. But it is the responsibility of each MP to protect the national language from humiliation and from Ham attacks. I'll do it, like everyone else.
ParlaMint-UA_2013-04-17-m0.u43	Dear colleagues, the list of issues proposed for discussion and decision-making today, you have. So let's move on to their consideration. We're still talking about nothing. Let's get to work, and I'll give you my word. Last night, they did not get the required number of votes of Ukrainian national deputies. I'll give you my word. Proposals for inclusion in the agenda of the legislative session (registrations 2649, 2594, 2595, 2596, 2597, 2798 and 2799). The MPs and national deputies have asked to return to the vote on the inclusion of the above - important drafts in the agenda of the day session. So I'm asking the factions to sign up for five minutes. Please. National MP Borita. Please.
ParlaMint-UA_2013-04-17-m0.u44	Please give the floor to Simonek Peter Mikolaiovich. Please hand over Simonenko.
ParlaMint-UA_2013-04-17-m0.u45	Simonenko, the Communist faction. Dear colleagues, of course, the task of today's Supreme Council is to adopt the legislation that our constituents require. The Company's faction reiterates once again its principled position that pension reform must be abolished, medical reform abolished, all measures taken to ensure that wages are paid to people in a timely manner, and those allowing workers to be incapacitated must bear both economic and criminal, i.e. criminal responsibility for violations of Ukrainian laws and human rights. I am convinced that the demands made today by the faction of the Company for the consideration of Parliament are vital and their decision will help, or acceptance will help people to protect their rights. With regard to the initiatives that have been taken.
ParlaMint-UA_2013-04-17-m0.u46	Freedom faction, Head, please.
ParlaMint-UA_2013-04-17-m0.u47	Please pass the word to Alexia Kaidi.
ParlaMint-UA_2013-04-17-m0.u48	Please, pass it on.
ParlaMint-UA_2013-04-17-m0.u49	Alexy Kaida, faction of the All-U.S. Freedom Union. Dear fellow MPs! After all, we have the Ukrainian Law on the Rules, which clearly regulates our work. First of all, if they weren't there yesterday, they didn't get the required number of votes, they have to be considered not earlier than six months later. To this day, we are again driven by lobbyist laws that will include new corruption schemes. The "Freedom" faction of the All-Ukrainian Union advocates that we continue the work of the bill, which concluded yesterday's consideration of issues, Law 1026. The laws that are now to be considered are pension reform, these are social laws, anti-corruption laws. Instead, we are trying to reintroduce again the corrupt laws that will stop our activities and lead to the blockade of Parliament.
ParlaMint-UA_2013-04-17-m0.u50	Ladies and gentlemen, we're not considering the laws right now, we're looking at the agenda. Therefore, read the Rules. Vitalia Klitschka faction, Pavlenko. And when we get to the law, we're going to look at the laws. Please.
ParlaMint-UA_2013-04-17-m0.u51	Please pass the word to Valentine.
ParlaMint-UA_2013-04-17-m0.u52	Please Valentin Nastavajchenko National Deputy.
ParlaMint-UA_2013-04-17-m0.u53	Valentin Nastawichenko, Vitalia Klitka faction. Honorable National Deputies of Ukraine! We firmly deny that Parliament would break through its knee - and - back lobby, corrupt laws would appear in the order of the day. First of all, this applies again, despite our will, to legislators, to the introduction of bills on long-term schemes, i.e. the budget break-up, to the introduction of bills on the Ministry of Revenue and Assembly. That is, stealing from pensioners 200 billion dollars from the Pension Fund to this Ministry, which is illegal in its own creation and has a specialty in its own component. That is, special units that rob or rob Ukrainian businesses and Ukrainian citizens. I think, and I emphasize that this is a corrupt effort. So we definitely deny to include again.
ParlaMint-UA_2013-04-17-m0.u54	The Fatherland faction, Kugel, National MP. Please.
ParlaMint-UA_2013-04-17-m0.u55	Please give the floor to Deputy Sas Sergio.
ParlaMint-UA_2013-04-17-m0.u56	Please.
ParlaMint-UA_2013-04-17-m0.u57	Volodymyr Vasilovich! Deputy Sas, Fatherland. Volodymyr Vasilovich! I would ask you to open the Rules, article 25, and there is a part of the fourth that says that the issue of the agenda of the day plenary meeting of the Supreme Council is being considered in the order in which they are included in the agenda of the plenary. And part five says that the issue of the agenda of the plenary meeting, which remained pending in the plenary session, is being considered by the Supreme Council first in the next plenary session. So today we have to start with pension reform, and this is the first bill that has not been considered. (Front) [[Applause]] No one denies that today can be included in the order of the day issues that were not supported yesterday because they were not considered in fact, but they can only be considered after that.
ParlaMint-UA_2013-04-17-m0.u58	Let me finish Sassa.
ParlaMint-UA_2013-04-17-m0.u59	But they can be considered after the entire agenda is considered, which was not completed at yesterday's plenary meeting. I ask you to comply with the law. The regulation is the law, Vladimir Vasilovic. Thank you.
ParlaMint-UA_2013-04-17-m0.u60	The Supreme Council can make such a decision. [[B in m in s a l in]] Party of regions, Giga.
ParlaMint-UA_2013-04-17-m0.u61	Good afternoon! Dear Vladimir Vasilovich, please give the floor to National Deputy Mikhail Vasilovich Chechtev.
ParlaMint-UA_2013-04-17-m0.u62	Please!
ParlaMint-UA_2013-04-17-m0.u63	Dear Vladimir Vasilevich, distinguished members of the people! How nice it was to see 300 on the board yesterday with too many votes for the bills and the left, and the right side of the hall, how nice it was to receive yesterday's calls from voters who were also grateful to us yesterday and were pleased to see that they finally saw the constructive work of Parliament. Yes, perhaps it was only yesterday that we entered the normal rhythm that we failed to understand the individual bills that had to be included in the agenda as bills that ensured the country's vitality. This has to do with humanitarian assistance and a number of other bills. [[B in m in s a l in]] Today, there are questions on both the elections in Kiev and pension reform. Let us therefore, in accordance with the agenda procedure, consider the inclusion in the agenda.
ParlaMint-UA_2013-04-17-m0.u64	Ladies and gentlemen, all of you. We've discussed the issue, we've all expressed our thoughts, and now let's calmly define by voting. The Supreme Council is to be determined. I am voting on the motion to return to the vote for the inclusion in the agenda of the bill, registration numbers 2649, 2594, 2595, 2596, 2797, 2798 and 2799. People's deputies, please vote. Please. [[10:53:32]] For 209 [[B in m in s a l in]] Against - 136, held - 0, did not vote - 59. The decision is not taken. It's democratic, okay, sit down. The factions, please. Region Party - 167, Fatherland - 0, Vitalia Klicka - 1, Freedom - 0, Company - 32, non-fractional - 9. This is a parliament that works democratically. Let's go to chapter one. It shall be brought to the attention. The draft Law (Registration No. 1026) on the amendment of the Ukrainian Act on the mandatory State Pension Insurance is being considered (to improve the conditions for retirement). How will we view it? Please, Vladimir Mikhailovich. Please, Vladimir Mikhailovich Litwin.
ParlaMint-UA_2013-04-17-m0.u65	Dear Vladimir Vasilovich, honourable colleagues, please accept such a proposal that we consider three bills at the same time in full, obviously, procedure. The reports are made by the drafters of the bill, the committee's three drafts are made by the committee's representative, in which case the committee head, then we'll have a discussion and we'll go to the decision-making committee, because it's the same topic that's very relevant. Please support such an offer.
ParlaMint-UA_2013-04-17-m0.u66	Please, Hanna Herman.
ParlaMint-UA_2013-04-17-m0.u67	There is another suggestion, Mr. Head: without discussion to vote and to consider each one separately. Thank you.
ParlaMint-UA_2013-04-17-m0.u68	Please, strike faction. Rosetta, please.
ParlaMint-UA_2013-04-17-m0.u69	Paul Rosenco, Vitaly Calla. With all due respect to Vladimir Mikhailovich, we cannot support this proposal, because these three bills are very much different from each other, especially the first two and the last two by Vladimir Mikhailovich. Therefore, we urge that this issue be considered in full procedure each issue separately. This is about pension reform, these bills are not alternatives, and they have to be voted on and adopted separately, because they have completely different standards, but they have one law. So there is a proposal to consider them in full procedure.
ParlaMint-UA_2013-04-17-m0.u70	Turkish, Fatherland faction.
ParlaMint-UA_2013-04-17-m0.u71	The Honourable Head of the Supreme Council! I would like to draw your attention to the fact that the Party of the Regions has now used other cards to vote in disdainful laws. We're giving you a warning. In view of the fact that this issue has not passed, we do not now raise the issue of voting. But we ask that we return carefully to the implementation of the Constitution and the personal voting laws. That's the first one. The other one. The issue of pension reform concerns all of our choices. There is no person in Ukraine among young people or among older people who do not care about their future – the problem of pension reform. So it's a matter of principle. We insist that it be considered, not as proposed by the Party of Regions, in general, but by every law in full procedure. It's principled. And one more question. I want to pay attention to the elections that the Communists here have been saying for a month that they will not vote for any law until the pension reform has been voted on, and now they have voted in favour of the bills, for other issues that are interesting.
ParlaMint-UA_2013-04-17-m0.u72	The Freedom faction.
ParlaMint-UA_2013-04-17-m0.u73	Edward Leonov, faction of the All-Ukrainian Freedom Union. Ladies and gentlemen, distinguished Ukrainians! The situation is critical in the country, the pension reform has led to the complete poverty of the Ukrainian people, the most vulnerable segments of the population of the Ukrainian people are now being affected, they are not even getting the copies that the State has promised them as a pension. That's why we believe that our principle position, the factions of the All-Ukrainian Freedom Union, each of the bills relating to the abolition of the disgraceful pension reform must be considered in full procedure, separately, and each national MP must have the right to take his stand and make his own proposals for the lifting of this shameful, anti-national pension reform. And that's why the faction of the All-Ukrainian Freedom Union will generally support all the bills that relate to the abolition of pension reform.
ParlaMint-UA_2013-04-17-m0.u74	Thank you. Communist Party, Simonenko. Please.
ParlaMint-UA_2013-04-17-m0.u75	Simonenko, the Communist faction. Dear colleagues, once again, I would like to remind those who are engaged in words and attempt to deceive voters with such technology. I recall that the pension reform was adopted by 248 votes in favour, 40 in favour of the pension reform in November 2011 by the Bhutanese and “Our Ukraine”, i.e. these are the voices that allowed the reform to be adopted. Secondly, we have made it clear that we will not vote until the Supreme Council commences its consideration of the draft legislation on the abolition of pension reform, medical reform and the return of wages. The Supreme Council has begun this process, and our draft has been considered. Unfortunately, he only got 220 votes. Who's breaking up with him? It's just that the bots, the freebies and the hit. Therefore, we reiterate today that you are not fornicating politically, but are organizing the adoption of laws that the electorate requires.
ParlaMint-UA_2013-04-17-m0.u76	The questions were discussed. We go according to schedule, we discuss every law, and we make decisions. After a reduced procedure, the offer. I put it to a vote, let's set it democratically. Those who support the simplified procedure when considering the matter are asked to vote. [[11:01:23]] For-166 The draft Law (registration number 1026). Please, the reporter is the National Deputy of Ukraine Mishchenko Sergey Grigorovich. Please.
ParlaMint-UA_2013-04-17-m0.u77	Sergei Mishchenko, Kyivščina. Unfortunately, we're the only ones born with a reduced procedure. This is the beginning of a short-term pension reform, medical reform, and all other reforms. Unfortunately, we didn't have six votes for another bill that we voted on two weeks ago. But I don't claim to have my bill win most of the votes. We have the Dennis Bill, which also deserves attention, which should also be voted on. But now that we have very little time to explain to those who will not vote for this bill, that they will have to go to the districts, they will have to meet with their loved ones and relatives, neighbors and explain what they are doing today, why they did not vote at the time, without a vote of six, and why they will not vote today. Can I explain why? And because unfortunately, when we got this so-called pension reform, we went to the International Monetary Fund for the first time with an extended hand. We haven't spoken to him this time. Why? And unfortunately, you know how Professor Preznostsky said that we have a breakdown, you can see, in our heads. Because it's just that we've adopted a pension reform, right now this famous tender came up, which was bought by the State Administration in 672 bracelets, when they bought a cherry 400 dollars, when Madame Clico bought a champagne, a red, a red card, that is, for the State Administration, there's money, and there's a pension reform to raise.
ParlaMint-UA_2013-04-17-m0.u78	I'm asking you to finish the date.
ParlaMint-UA_2013-04-17-m0.u79	It's not there. And that's why I'm calling on the opposition to mobilize everyone right now to vote for this bill. I'm asking the same opposition, in the district newspapers, to publish in the districts of those MPs who don't vote today. Let the earth burn beneath their feet.
ParlaMint-UA_2013-04-17-m0.u80	I request a report from the chairman of the Committee on Pensioners, Veterans and Disabled Persons, Valery Mikhajlovich Suškević.
ParlaMint-UA_2013-04-17-m0.u81	Thank you, Vladimir Vasilovich. National MP Suškević, head of the Committee on Pensioners, Veterans and Disabled Persons. The committee considered the bill submitted by the National MP Mishchenka. And as has already been said, the bill proposes to make changes to eliminate the negative discriminatory standards of pension reform that were adopted in 2011 and which significantly worsen the level of pensions of Ukrainian citizens. I want to remind you briefly that the bill proposes, firstly, to return to retirement age, i.e. 60 years for men, 55 years for women, the minimum age of retirement pension for those who have lost their jobs for 25 years, women for 20 years of retirement, the right to a minimum pension. Thirdly, what the bill proposes is the right to a disability pension, calculated in accordance with articles 27, 28 of the Act, in the non-working persons of the second and third groups. And the bill also proposes that the average salary for the calculation of the pension should apply to the average wage for one calendar year, which precedes the year of the pension application. Dear colleagues, the bill as well as other bills in this area point out that it is necessary to go back to the rules of effective legislation that have ensured the right standards that have been applied to the so-called pension reform. And for which the committee is addressed, a large army of pensioners. I want to remind you that there are over 14 million pensioners, veterans and invalids who are asking us to look at the problem of the so-called pension reform. The committee is in charge.
ParlaMint-UA_2013-04-17-m0.u82	Let me finish.
ParlaMint-UA_2013-04-17-m0.u83	The main scientific and expert management is proposing to send a draft for work. Our committee, the Committee on the Rights of Retired, Veterans and Disabled Persons, recommends that the Supreme Council accept the bill as a basis. Thank you.
ParlaMint-UA_2013-04-17-m0.u84	Please sign up for the factions. The Fatherland faction, Kirilenko, Viacheslav Kirilenko Please.
ParlaMint-UA_2013-04-17-m0.u85	Viacheslav Kirilenko, Fatherland faction, Party "For Ukraine!" Dear voters, distinguished colleagues, here my colleague Mishchenko spoke, said that there was little time to explain the situation of pensions in the country. Maybe so. And maybe that's enough. Because to go out on the street, every retiree has to ask, he'll tell you what to do in order to get the pension system in order. So, first of all, we all know that one and a half dozen laws that assign a pension. One law for shopkeepers, engineers, factory workers, and another 15 laws for those in power structures, MPs, ministers, and so forth. People know that, and we know it here. This is the first injustice. Now the second one. We have a pay-as-you-go fund of about 450 billion dollars in the country. But everyone knows that the informal pay fund is the same, or maybe more, people don't pay anything because they pay them in envelopes. Why? And because the authorities have closed the business to the handle, everyone knows what kind of fights they're writing letters to entrepreneurs, businessmen, clerks, the muscle comes in and says, "Give it all to the authorities for a month." So who's going to pay the official salary? They pay in envelopes, there's nothing going on at the Pension Fund. So this reform from Tihyp, it's completely lame and unilateral. Nowhere in the world is reform that starts and ends simply by increasing the retirement age of women, and increasing the minimum working age for all. It's extortion and looting. So you have to cancel all the pension laws that are special to the nomenclature, and you have to make one law for the whole country as much as you did, how much you got paid, and that's what you got, your pension. And then there won't be 82 billion deficits in the Pension Fund budget like now. We'll support Mishchenka's bill. Thank you.
ParlaMint-UA_2013-04-17-m0.u86	Please. The “Freedom ” of Leonov. Please.
ParlaMint-UA_2013-04-17-m0.u87	Ladies and gentlemen of the people, the distinguished Ukrainian community! The All-Ukrainian "Freedom" union has consistently advocated abolishing the so-called "retirement reform". What is this so - called pension reform really? It's just an attempt to get the Ukrainians to die before they retire. So that, given all their strength and health to this state, and not only to this state, but also to the previous usurper state, they would not be able to get a proper rest, they would not be able to give at least a little bit of attention to their families, their grandchildren, their children in the last few years of their lives. We should therefore point out that the pension reform, so-called, basic instrument of its action, has made savings on Ukrainian women. It was Ukrainian women who became the main contributors to those improvements to the government of Yanukovic, Azarov, that Ukrainian women gave the so-called economy of the State and Pension Fund, about one and a half billion dollars in 2012 alone. If Azarov and his team had given up their benefits, if you, the distinguished national MPs, had not been involved in the campaign, but had now embarked on the reform of the pension system, the pension system, and given up those huge preferences that have been following the Supreme Council, the Cabinet of Ministers, and the Cabinet of Ministers since 1992, you wouldn't have had to lead women to poverty, you wouldn't have to wait for the men to die. Because the average age of life, the average life expectancy of a Ukrainian man is less than the retirement of a Ukrainian man. Thus, our parents die without waiting for that pension, the meager copies that the State had guaranteed them before. That's why we think we need to support any bill that cancels this pension reform. The faction of the All-Ukrainian Freedom Union for this bill.
ParlaMint-UA_2013-04-17-m0.u88	It's Vitaly Calla. Vitaly Cliché, please turn on the rostrum.
ParlaMint-UA_2013-04-17-m0.u89	Dear National Deputies! The pension reform, I propose, has led to the pension reform proposed by today’s authorities: the limitation of the rights of women, workers, scientists, Chernobylians, military personnel, retired workers, disabled persons, and others. It can be said that 46 million Ukrainians have fallen under this reform. This was just two years ago. What have our fellow citizens received from this reform? I just want to remind you of a few numbers. Last year, pensions increased by only 10 dollars. About 3 million Ukrainians receive less than a thousand bracelets. The country’s average pension is one thousand and 400. That is, for an ordinary person, pension reform has brought only waste. Pensions in this country are growing significantly only for former officials. The state can't be satisfied with pension reform because the pension system has not been reduced -- it's increased by 20 billion. Such reform is a threat to future generations. And we need to reverse this reform, and this decision will move us to carry out the real reform that people need. Ukraine has to give up cheap labour policy because a small wage today is a small pension tomorrow. The second solution proposed by the Impact faction is a reduced rate of social contribution. We have registered Bill 1182. This step will allow you to remove wages from the shadows and create normal conditions for doing business in the country. We're talking to him.
ParlaMint-UA_2013-04-17-m0.u90	Let me finish.
ParlaMint-UA_2013-04-17-m0.u91	We call on all the national MPs to support this initiative and to create, not only to abolish pension reform, but to create normal conditions for the normal retirement of Ukrainians. Thank you. () [[Applause]]
ParlaMint-UA_2013-04-17-m0.u92	The faction of the Party of the Regions, Jaroslav Suhi, National Deputy Please.
ParlaMint-UA_2013-04-17-m0.u93	Dear colleagues! We know that the adoption of social policy bills should look like finding compromises between challenges, demands, the needs of society, on the one hand, and the financial and material capacity of the authorities to implement them, on the other hand. Especially is it not acceptable in social policy to introduce draft laws designed to tempt the opponent or to taste the social disadvantages of market transformations. But the rules of this Ukrainian policy are: opposition brings ideas that the authorities cannot implement. Then the opposition becomes power, the power becomes opposition -- and the same rakes, and the new one, that's our democracy, and that's beautiful, and that's great. We're sick of this childhood disease, and we have to go through it. So can we approach the adoption of these three bills? First, none of these bills have a financial and economic basis, in accordance with articles 91 and 94 of the Rules, they can't even be considered, but they need to be considered in order to at least discuss the subject. Can we approach a change in age and internship? During the internship, I'm sure. I would support the Vladimir Mikhailovich Litvina bill. As for age, please tell me, can we change our age? We can. Then there is a need to increase the tax on the payroll fund. Today, who has business relations is 56 percent. Germany has 30 percent, 40 percent Sweden, and it provides a complete social package. You can't do this anymore. Then reduce expenses, freeze pensions, no indexation, and, more importantly, no attachment to the subsistence minimum. Then we lose mass demand, pensioner, we lose purchasing power, we freeze the internal market. The solution was one: gradually, and this way Europe went, knowing about the demographic disaster, gradually after six months to 10 years of age. It's about age. And another thing is, who's the law?
ParlaMint-UA_2013-04-17-m0.u94	Let me finish.
ParlaMint-UA_2013-04-17-m0.u95	It's a long topic. Who cares about the pension system, I'm willing to talk, but with no law, no rallying, no screaming, no more insinuating about some IMF, we're not going to change that demographic problem when the number of pensioners gets closer to the workers when no one in the solidarity system is paying contributions. These three bills, one of them can be accepted as a basis: the Lithuanian Bill.
ParlaMint-UA_2013-04-17-m0.u96	The Communist faction, please, Simonenko.
ParlaMint-UA_2013-04-17-m0.u97	My fellow Members, I would like to remind you that the pension reform has been accepted under the demands of the International Monetary Fund, destroying our political and economic independence. And I took on the support of the representatives of a powerful business. It needs to be canceled. This is what the people require. On April 2, we voted with you, 220 votes won, and the Company's faction introduced a bill that didn't pass. Twelve votes were not added, the so - called opposition and failed to pass the law. And to those who are speaking today, including Vitalia Volodymyrovich Klitschko, I would recommend voting. Because the last time you didn't vote. But what must we do today to improve the real living conditions of pensioners? Obviously it's both the number of jobs and the level of wages, but the main thing is that pensioners today need both a high level, a sufficient level of retirement, and a state policy on tariff and price control. Without this policy, the lives of pensioners will never be the same.
ParlaMint-UA_2013-04-17-m0.u98	Turn it on for one more minute.
ParlaMint-UA_2013-04-17-m0.u99	Never, the lives of pensioners will be improved until the state really protects the lives of our citizens by its national policy. So I urge everyone to support this bill because it completely repeats to the dot and to the coma that we voted with you from the Company initiative on April 2. I propose to support and vote.
ParlaMint-UA_2013-04-17-m0.u100	Welcome to the Vitaly Cliché.
ParlaMint-UA_2013-04-17-m0.u101	I want to go to Peter Simonek, now I'm accusing him of not voting for pension reform. I want to make your point: the whole faction as one voted last time. In fact, I haven't been able to vote, press a button, because I've come back from the trial, from the trial against Lucenka. I apologize for that, but my position and the position of the faction I expressed today from the rostrum. Thank you.
ParlaMint-UA_2013-04-17-m0.u102	The discussion is over, let's move on to the decision-making process. I'm asking for your attention! Take your seats. I'm betting on a draft bill (registration number 1026) to amend the Ukrainian Act "On mandatory public pension insurance" (to improve the conditions for retirement) to be accepted as a basis. People's deputies, please vote. [[11:21:02]] For 223, Against 5, held – 48, not voted – 112. The decision is not taken. The factions. Region Party 11, Fatherland 88, Vitalia Klicka – 35, Freedom Association – 35, Ukraine Company – 32, non-fractional – 22. The draft Act (registration No. 1073) on the amendment of the Ukrainian Law on mandatory State Pension Insurance (registration of the pension age for women, insurance and pension policy) is introduced. How will we view it? I'm sorry. I'm sorry. I'm sorry. I'm asking you to vote on the national MPs. [[11:22:27]] For 143, Against 149, holding – 1, not voting – 107. The factions. Region Party – 137, Fatherland – 3, Hit by Vitaly Klicka – 0, Freedom – 0, Company – 0, non-fractional – 3. We are considering a full discussion procedure. Please. The rapporteur is the National Deputy of Ukraine, Denisov Ludmila Leontovna. Please.
ParlaMint-UA_2013-04-17-m0.u103	Dear Head! Dear National Deputies! The government, which passed the law on pension reform, has made it a major goal to achieve the balance of the Pension Fund and to increase pensions for pensioners. What really happened? The budget deficit of the Pension Fund has increased. In 2013, 21.8 billion dollars were planned, 42 percent more than before the 2012 plan. 72 percent of pensioners will receive a pension of up to 1.5 thousand dollars. During the year of implementation, the authorities stole 2.6 billion dollars. That's how we got this effect. Who was touched by the so - called pension reform. First of all, these are Ukrainian citizens who are now 55-60 years old. These were the citizens who were born in the Soviet Union, who worked in it, but after its collapse they were forced to leave their jobs in the manufacturing field and began to make their living by working with so - called stomachs, or went all the way to work in other countries. They have 10 years of insurance in the Soviet Union and 10 years of experience in the Ukrainian economy, 10 or 15 years under the new rules are not enough and they cannot get even a minimum pension today. This has also been the case for those who are in need of insurance but cannot be confirmed by the complexity of the procedure. To date, they are required to provide original documents on the size of wages. However, most of the Soviet companies and factories were destroyed, and such documents were transferred to the archives. This will take account of the period until January 1, 2016. For those who are over 30 years of age, the authorities have come up with other improvements and have taken their pension from over 10 years of age, which is now 90 dollars a month. One more. The formula under which the pension is calculated has been changed. Because the average wage is not taken in the previous year, but in the previous three years, and every pensioner is not getting enough, think about 200 or 300 dollars a month. As far as women are concerned. The retirement age was increased for women. In 2012 alone, 160,000 women were forced to retire later, reducing their monthly income by almost 1,000 dollars. By taking people’s pensions, the authorities had reduced their income and made their standard of living worse. Citizens are forced to seek subsidies. By 8 per cent or nearly a billion dollars, the debt of Ukrainians to housing services has increased. Without the necessary work experience to obtain pensions, people went to the employment centers. Unemployment, according to official data alone, has increased by 5 percent. According to sociological research, 60 percent of those surveyed are afraid of not paying wages and pensions today, 59 are job losses, 54 are price increases, and 1 in 5 is hunger. This is what State policy has led to. So we want to return these guarantees to the people where they went to work and who gave them the opportunity to retire. We insist that it is impossible to change the rules for those who have practically completed their work and, under different circumstances, cannot find a job in order to obtain the necessary insurance. We are aware that pension reform is needed by the State and we are ready to work together to carry out this reform that will benefit Ukraine and its citizens. And the "Fatherland" faction will support every bill that relates to the abolition of pension reform, which. That's just what it's called. We hope that all factions will unanimously support their electorate, the citizens of Ukraine and Ukraine. Thank you.
ParlaMint-UA_2013-04-17-m0.u104	Thank you. Any questions for the reporter? Please sign up. Five minutes. Tomenko, please, a question.
ParlaMint-UA_2013-04-17-m0.u105	Ludmila Leontiyevna, there are many discussions today about such a serious word as political responsibility, since it is about who is responsible for the anti-national, I would say inhumane, pension reform. That's how you think that if the previous parliamentary majority, which was formed, are under the cells of the signed agreements between the Party of the Regions, the Communist Party and the People's Party, after the pension reform was voted, as far as I'm concerned, no party has left this parliamentary majority and has continued to work. So I have a question, in your opinion, what political forces are personally responsible and party to the anti-national pension reform that was voted in the previous call?
ParlaMint-UA_2013-04-17-m0.u106	You know, whoever voted, didn't vote in favour of this pension reform, this responsibility is borne by this vast majority that was created in the last call. And when, under cover of the night, 62 national deputies who were present in the hall for 226 votes sold the people of Ukraine, sold the retirees who are now retired, who will be retired in the future. So I think that responsibility lies with both the Party of Regions and the Communists as a whole. Thank you.
ParlaMint-UA_2013-04-17-m0.u107	Ukraine’s Company. People's deputy Bukhovets. Simonenko, please.
ParlaMint-UA_2013-04-17-m0.u108	Simonenko, the Communist faction. I have a question for you. Please explain your statements regarding the need to adopt this law and the specific actions that preceded the adoption of the law are about pension reform. I would like to inform you that with the request or with the request of the International Monetary Fund to raise the retirement age for women to 60 years of age and for men to 65 years of age, you have been signed on behalf of Ukraine by Yashchenko, Timoshenko, Yatzenuk and two ministers. So please explain to me how you can today accept your sincerity in your petitions that you are going to vote when you have done everything you can to ensure that this shameful pension reform under the requirements of the International Monetary Fund was adopted by the Supreme Council in November 2011, and by the way, then and by the way, you were still a minister. So today I would like to draw the attention of all Ukrainian citizens who are really fighting for your rights. And who's talking about these rights?
ParlaMint-UA_2013-04-17-m0.u109	With all due respect to you, Mr. Simonenko, you understand that I was no longer Minister in November 2011. I quit my job in March 2010. And with all the responsibility, I want to say that, indeed, the International Monetary Fund insisted on raising the age of women and men. But neither Timoshenko nor I nor any officer during this period, when Timoshenko was Prime Minister, and in my opinion she is the best Prime Minister in these years of independent Ukraine has been not signed. Thank you.
ParlaMint-UA_2013-04-17-m0.u110	It's the Vitalia Cliche faction, Rosenko. Please.
ParlaMint-UA_2013-04-17-m0.u111	Paul Rosenco, Vitaly Caller's Faction. Well, to you too, Ludmila Leontiyevna, as to the former minister and Vladimir Vasilovich. Now we are looking at the issue of pension reform in archival for the whole state today. Note the government’s bed. There is no minister. Where is the Minister of Social Policy? What does she do? Today, the Supreme Council of Ukraine is considering a fundamental issue for all Ukrainians: the issue of pension reform. Why is there no government representative? Ludmila Leontievna, as former minister, please comment on this fact. And on the other hand, the strike, as a faction in general, supports your bill to abolish this anti-national pension reform.
ParlaMint-UA_2013-04-17-m0.u112	Thank you, Paul Valeriyovich, for your support. You know, when I was Minister of Labour and Social Policy, and you were my first deputy, we were always in the government's bed when we were looking at any social issues. And today, this is the most important question that applies to all citizens of Ukraine, not just those who are now retired and who will be retired tomorrow. That's why I think it's just disrespect for Ukrainian citizens and for Ukraine as a whole. Thank you.
ParlaMint-UA_2013-04-17-m0.u113	Have a seat. Thank you. We will be able to ask the director of the ministry on Friday and ask the questions you want. The report is given to the head of the Committee on Pensioners, Veterans, and Disabled Persons, Suškevitch Valery Mikhajlovich. Please turn on the microphone.
ParlaMint-UA_2013-04-17-m0.u114	Thank you, Vladimir Vasilovich. Dear colleagues, honourable members of the people, today we are considering another bill submitted by the representative of the Yulia Timoshenko faction on the abolition of pension reform. I'd like to say that of all the bills that have been passed on to this committee, this is the most systematic and so global, in terms of cancelling, absolutely everyone, the position of the so-called pension reform. In particular, the committee notes that the bill proposes to return to retirement age by cancelling the retirement age for our women and not considering them as a resource for filling the pension fund of women who are later retired. Second position. The minimum amount of pensions at the age of 25 in men, and in women 20 years of insurance, is also a return to the rules of current legislation that were. Third. This affects the disabled in Ukraine: the right to a disability pension. Again, in those standards that were before the annulment. Before the so-called pension reform was adopted. What I'm saying is that an important part of this bill, as the rapporteur has already stated, is to take into account the allocation of salary pensions, the income for any 60 calendar months of insurance by 1 July 2000, without any limitation. This is an essential factor in the return of pension legislation, which provided for an adequate level of pension insurance for our pensioners. Also the next point that our committee and which is in the bill is to define the average wage in the bill for the calculation of pensions is to apply the average salary for one calendar year, which precedes the year of the pension application. It's also a norm that really brings us back to that legislation that was before the so-called pension reform. The next step is to increase pensions for pensioners in the event of an increase in the living minimum for those who have lost their jobs, determined by law regardless of whether they are employed or engaged in income-generating activities. You understand the discriminatory nature of today's post-reform standards, so that's the key factor in this bill: increasing pensions for pensioners. And the next, the last position that brings us back to the rules of effective legislation that were before reform is to run a recalculation of pensions, taking into account the retirement and the salary after the retirement and the application of the average salary rate for the calendar year, which precedes the year of recalculation of pensions. At the same time, from the period during which the salary is calculated, the period after the pension is granted is not subject to inclusion. This is an essential factor that provides support to our pensioners. Ladies and gentlemen, I would like to point out that the committee has practically taken a very positive view of this legislative initiative by the representatives of the Yulia Timoshenko faction and supported the adoption of this bill. I'd like to say that the position of the Committee on Pensioners, Veterans, Disabled Persons is that there can be no legislative standards today that would be introduced by pension reform without a set of measures that provide neutral positions in relation to the pensioner himself. Colleagues less than two years after the adoption of the Retirement Reform Act testify to the fact that the reform was carried out at the expense of pensioners. And unfortunately, in our opinion, the government is setting up, because today the external factors that could secure the fullness of the Pension Fund and provide the resources of the Pension Fund to provide our pensioners remain unresolved, unchanged. It's also the tinning of wages, unemployment, the forced departure of our citizens abroad, and so on. Practically none of the resource proposals made by the Supreme Council Committee for pensioners, veterans, disabled persons.
ParlaMint-UA_2013-04-17-m0.u115	Let me finish.
ParlaMint-UA_2013-04-17-m0.u116	None of our committee's resource proposals that could fill the Pension Fund, nor do they affect the pension laws that worked for pensioners, have been used by the government today. In fact, we think there's a stagnation that's affecting pension reform, and no one is actually doing it today. Thank you for your attention. Please support this bill in voting on the basis.
ParlaMint-UA_2013-04-17-m0.u117	Any questions for Valery Mikhailovich? Please sign up, three minutes to ask. Please, Queen, the Fatherland faction.
ParlaMint-UA_2013-04-17-m0.u118	Please pass the word to Blackwolf.
ParlaMint-UA_2013-04-17-m0.u119	Please, Black Woman.
ParlaMint-UA_2013-04-17-m0.u120	Thank you. Your Honor, the head of the committee! Here's a question for you. In fact, it's a disgrace that we've raised a woman's retirement age. If you remember, my amendments were about 500, and you would spend the whole night looking at this question, if you remember, in that shameful year when we accepted it. But no less. [[B in m in s a l in]] But. She accepted the Supreme Council. I took the Supreme Council, where most of them were in "Regions." It's true, in the past, it's called. Well, I'd like to ask you. Look, there's another part of this bill -- it's a cumulative pension, it's as shameful as this part. And it's coming up to future generations and it can create huge trust problems. And the second question is the question of men who by some categories of civil servants.
ParlaMint-UA_2013-04-17-m0.u121	Please, answer me.
ParlaMint-UA_2013-04-17-m0.u122	I would like to say that, practically during the drafting of the so-called pension reform bill, our committee addressed a number of proposals from the National Deputies and worked on our committee, proposals that were alternative to increasing retirement age, increasing internships for the appointment of pensions and so on. So those discriminatory and, I would say, those extreme standards in terms of both the pensioner and those who plan to retire, the standards that were resourceful. But the government, and unfortunately not even the first steps have been taken to solve these problems. And I repeat, it's so impressive that since October 2011, there's been a full stagnation, and further steps are being taken to address the pension deficit, the pension deficit, practically not being handled by the government, and not even being able to deal with it in an expert environment.
ParlaMint-UA_2013-04-17-m0.u123	Please, National Deputy Mishchenko.
ParlaMint-UA_2013-04-17-m0.u124	Thank you. Dear Vladimir Vasilovich, a question to you, if possible. Now we've voted out 55-year-old women's retirement, three votes short. So I have a question for you: first of all, announce those MPs who are absent from the meeting for good reasons, or who are on leave and who are in the hospital. First of all, I'm interested in Fatherland and Strike. Because there were three votes missing, but seven votes, seven deputies from Fatherland did not vote, and seven deputies from Impact did not vote. 14 votes. That's why. I'm told that one of the deputies -- Gurvitz -- is in the hospital, so now. There are no questions here. I saw that Vladimir Alexandrovich Yavorowski filed an application for his vote. It's 224 votes. That's why.
ParlaMint-UA_2013-04-17-m0.u125	Before the vote, I'm going to give you that kind of information on this question. Let me finish.
ParlaMint-UA_2013-04-17-m0.u126	God forbid we're taking Dennis's 226, for her bill. That's why I'm going back to the leader of the opposition forces, first and foremost to the SHOCK and the Fatherland. If you cannot mobilize your deputies, then you have no place to direct such factions.
ParlaMint-UA_2013-04-17-m0.u127	Time is up for questions. I'm asking the factions of the national MPs to sign up for the performance, from the factions. Vanzurek, national MP, please.
ParlaMint-UA_2013-04-17-m0.u128	I'm handing over Rosenco.
ParlaMint-UA_2013-04-17-m0.u129	Rosetta, please.
ParlaMint-UA_2013-04-17-m0.u130	Dear National Deputies! Paul Rosenco, Vitaly Caller's Faction. Clearly, our faction fully supports proposals for the abolition of pension reform. What's more, once again, in support of Vitalia Klicka's speech, I want to say that we are more interested in having this pension reform lifted as a starting point for a new pension reform, a new pension change. This is what concerns our society and our pensioners today. First. These are two different pension systems. One pension system is that for ordinary people, the pension is calculated at about 45 percent of the wage. These are teachers, doctors, social workers, cultures, and so forth. But we also have another category of citizens who have an 80-90-percent pension. These are pensions to bureaucrat officials. We need to get away from these two pension schemes. That's why the National Deputies of the UDARC faction registered a draft of the Ukrainian Act on the only principles of recalculation and retirement in Ukraine. When, first of all, the President of Ukraine, the Cabinet of Ministers, members of the Cabinet of Ministers, national deputies and officials of all levels will be transferred to a state-wide single system of compulsory state pension insurance. The second question. Of course, we're all worried about this, this is a terrible deficit in the Pension Fund budget and the question of where to take the money to overcome this budget deficit. The first question is, of course, the low wages. Today, a member of the Party of the Regions told us how well we live in the village. And I want to ask you a question. Does he know how much a peasant's salary is today? I'll tell you what. Today, the average wage in the agro-industrial complex is 1,300 dollars. After all the contributions are paid, people receive a thousand dollars. Please tell me, when he retires, what will be his pension? 500 bucks, no more. Here's the cheap labor policy. Therefore, without considering the issue, there is no possibility of high pensions in Ukraine without raising wages. And one last question. Indeed, the shadow market for wages is about 150 billion dollars. This means that it is impossible to do business in Ukraine today. That's why Hit has introduced a bill to reduce the sole social contribution to small and medium-sized businesses, which is a step towards legalizing wages, which is a step towards increasing pensions in Ukraine. We're talking to the people's deputies.
ParlaMint-UA_2013-04-17-m0.u131	Let me finish.
ParlaMint-UA_2013-04-17-m0.u132	We're asking the Ukrainian National Deputies to support the UDAF's proposal for the only principles of retirement and the reduction of the single social contribution and the abolition of today's pension reform. Thank you for your attention.
ParlaMint-UA_2013-04-17-m0.u133	The Fatherland faction, the Sanchenko People's Deputy. People's deputy Yatsenuk.
ParlaMint-UA_2013-04-17-m0.u134	Dear Lord Chairman! The opposition has five points of pension change from the opposition. First. Cancelling the pension reform introduced by the government of Azarova-Januković. We believe that an increase in the retirement age in a country where people do not live to retirement is unfair and wrong. We have to get the retirement age back. The other one. Restoration of justice in pension. We think that some President, some Prime Minister, some person who works at a school or a hospital should have one approach to pension. And that's why Prime Minister Azarov should try to live on a pension in the 894 bracelet he set up. [[Applause]] Third. We believe that we must immediately resolve the issue of the modernisation of pensions. Let me remind you, food prices are rising, utility prices are rising, tariffs are rising, and pensions are not being made. We, as the Fatherland, were introduced a corresponding amendment that predicted a recalculation of pensions and an increase of 10 million Ukrainian citizens by 334 bracelets, which should have taken place another 2 years ago. Now the government of Ukraine does not pay every Ukrainian pensioner a figure of 650 dollars. And we demand that the Ukrainian government reimburse the Ukrainian pensioners. Next. When entering a specific system at a reduced cost. Honorary colleagues say that the State budget seems to lack the funds to restore the pension fund’s balance. The government's lying. President Yanukovic's detention is worth 1 million dollars for one day. This is equivalent to a pension for one and a half thousand Ukrainian pensioners. Therefore, if we do not pay one day for the retention of Viktor Yanukovitch, one and a half thousand Ukrainian pensioners per month may receive an additional monthly allowance accordingly. We believe that in Ukraine there should be reduced spending on the President, on the government, on the Supreme Council of Ukraine, which in three years of the presidency of Viktor Yanukovic increased by 35 billion dollars. These funds need to be sent to the Pension Fund, and we can pay Ukrainian pensioners a decent pension. And finally. The government of Ukraine should actually know that the pension fund's problem is not solved by the rise in retirement age. And the Pension Fund is jobs and it's worth a salary. We demanded and demanded that this government: a government action programme that would create jobs for Ukrainians paid a decent salary. And so Ukrainians who earn a decent living can also support Ukrainian pensioners who should have a decent pension. We call on the Party of the Regions to vote in favour of our law and to correct the disgraceful mistake that they are making.
ParlaMint-UA_2013-04-17-m0.u135	Let me finish.
ParlaMint-UA_2013-04-17-m0.u136	And try to correct the crime against the Ukrainian pensioners they committed and brought to Parliament. Thank you.
ParlaMint-UA_2013-04-17-m0.u137	Party of regions, National Deputy Stoyan.
ParlaMint-UA_2013-04-17-m0.u138	Dear colleagues, surely any reform needs to be reformed, more so as pension reform. What I'm saying is that what colleagues, particularly Denisov's, have made is positive. What's the positive point? The positive point is that, in fact, people who retire after 50 years can't get the necessary insurance. But, dear fellows, I would like to remind you why the political force that was in power, and they are here, with Timoshenko's participation, have not gone to retirement reform? Because then they had a minimum pension of 498 - mirror today 984, because they understood then, because for two years they had frozen payments to teachers and doctors, realizing that the Pension Fund should be subsidized. What are they offering now? Cancel pension reform. I want all the Ukrainians and all our pensioners to know. Dear Ukrainian pensioners, the abolition of pension reform is a disaster for all of you. Explain why. Let me explain why. If pension reform is lifted, it means that we have to get at least 7 billion dollars out of the budget this year. That means the government that was in 2011. [[B in m in s a l in]] I speak English, so give me time to stop speaking. Get it. You don't want to hear the truth? I'm a specialist in this matter, unlike you demagogs, botuns, politicians. Yeah, well, I mean, that means we have to flip out, give out the budget grant to the Pension Fund, give out the grant. The government won't be able, as it did five times in 2011, to add to pensions in 2012. That means we can't upgrade the pensions of all those pensioners who have retired before 2008, and now there's an update. The transfer from the budget to the Pension Fund means that we can't do what the government has just done. What did the government do? Starting in January, he will pay all budget workers 159 dollars. Thus, those who propose to abolish pension reform want to do the following, so that the state does not pay the pension so that pensions are small. It's a provocation before the election, in the presidential election. As for those who are now retiring. Dear colleagues, the reform is planned for 10 years. Moreover, 60 years from now, women will have a replacement rate of 70 percent of the average wage. I'd like to propose a mechanism that says Dennis's Ludmila: let's do this: retirement at will. You want to go at 55, woman, you can't work, please retire, but you can retire tomorrow. You want to move on.
ParlaMint-UA_2013-04-17-m0.u139	Let me finish.
ParlaMint-UA_2013-04-17-m0.u140	You want to keep working, work till you're 60 years old. But you're going to get 10 salaries and you're going to get 70 percent of your pension. That's what our pensioners are going to do. What you're doing right now is provocation. A party of regions will not vote for this provocation. Thank you.
ParlaMint-UA_2013-04-17-m0.u141	The faction of the Comparty of Ukraine. Zybenko.
ParlaMint-UA_2013-04-17-m0.u142	Communist faction, Peter Cibenko. Ladies and gentlemen, I'd like to begin my speech with an analysis of the vote on the previous issue. Realizing that this is a question of the lives and deaths of millions of our citizens, the faction of the Company of Ukraine mobilized all people. All 32 people on the spot and all as one voted in favour of abolishing pension reform. And now some of the colleagues, how they behaved. The "Freedom" faction is not one person. The faction of the Klicka block is 7 people, the "Fatherland" faction is 10, including 3 did not vote on those who were in the hall. And one more thing. Here Mr. Yatsenuk spoke in flames, and I want to say that he spoke very well. But he was one of the subscribers of that appeal to the International Monetary Fund, as Head of the Supreme Council, without the consent of the Supreme Council, signed that statement. Now for the content of your speech. Today, the term "retirement reform" is a constant term. Let us not engage in words of fornication. There is no reform. Because reform is about improving people's lives. It's a retirement genocide, and if you want it, it's a retirement Chernobyl. What was promised when this law was passed? A substantial increase in the employment pension. Bringing the labour pension fully into line with the occupational insurance system, reducing the pension deficit. In fact, there was a promise of a paradise on earth. Let us now see how this paradise has turned out. There's been no substantial increase in pension insurance, it's quite obvious. Today, you know, the authorities are proud of the average pension of 1,000, 400 dollars. But, colleagues, you and I know how the average pension is calculated. One authority or deputy receives 10,000, and ten beggars receive less than 1,000 and an average of 1 thousand 400. But 1 out of every 4 Ukrainian citizens today receives a beggarly payment of less than a thousand dollars. What is involved in getting in line with retirement? This has not happened, and it is absolutely obvious, just as we can talk today about the fact that hundreds of thousands of young people today did not get their first job because people did not retire at the right time, but they did not get their first job at the right time. So the honourable colleagues, the faction of the Company of Ukraine, being completely consistent in its work, will support this bill and call for the opposition to mobilize, and vote in favour of abolishing pension reform. Thank you.
ParlaMint-UA_2013-04-17-m0.u143	Thank you. The Freedom Union. Who's speaking: Schweika or Mirni? Hands in the air. Who? Schweika, please.
ParlaMint-UA_2013-04-17-m0.u144	Please give the word to Mikhalchino.
ParlaMint-UA_2013-04-17-m0.u145	Mikhalchin, please, National Deputy.
ParlaMint-UA_2013-04-17-m0.u146	Honourable Vladimir Vasilovich, honourable fellow MPs, the faction of the All-Ukrainian Freedom Association is the principle of the abolition of today's anti-national, anti-social, anti-Ukrainian pension system. It's very sad that here, in the cabinet bed and among the speakers, we haven't seen her chief ideologist, the chief frontman, Mr. Sergey Tihypak's chief lawyer. With the mouth of its current responsible manipulators for the social policy of Ms. Natalia Královska, the current regime has acknowledged the goodbyeness of reform. Natalia Kraljevska, by the way, admitted that the deficit of the pension fund, the main goal of its adoption, had only grown in the last year and the gap in the budget was widening. In our opinion, Ludmila Denisov's bill is called upon to restore social justice, and that is why we will definitely support it. By the way, I'd like to correct the previous speaker: the only person missing from the Freedman Hall at the same time was sitting at a meeting of the Cabinet of Ministers, where, secretly, there are billions of budget allocations that are so lacking, it turns out, Ukrainian prosecutors, judges, officials, customs officers and taxpayers, but the same copies are usually missing for the Ukrainian teacher, doctor, or engineer. Regrettably, Mrs. Dennisov’s bill does not provide for compensation mechanisms for those pensioners who have already suffered as a result of this social famine. After all, when women were raised to five years of age, there was no reason to think about where to get hundreds of thousands of jobs for them. Today, there are five Ukrainian men in Ukraine for one job, and how many women do not get a job as a result of social discrimination, and you haven’t mentioned it or thought about it. We should also consider working pensioners. From the 14 million-dollar army of Ukrainian pensioners, about a quarter is still working. And the mechanisms for the recalculation of pensions for them are also now provided for by existing legislation in such a way as to calculate the pension from the average salary in 2007. And you, billionaires and oligarchs, have no shame in stealing from these few hundred bracelets of miserable Ukrainian pensioners! We believe that pension reform needs a comprehensive approach, one law that cannot be corrected because it has both socio-demographic and macroeconomic roots. We're proposing, first of all, to reduce the burden on the payroll fund, we're proposing a regressive scale of taxation, according to which, the larger the pay fund, the less it's going to have to account for the state social insurance fund. And perhaps by the time we do, there is an offer to marry Ukrainian millionaires. Let the millionaires pay 15-20 percent of their annual income to the Pension Fund, so we will definitely overcome its deficit.
ParlaMint-UA_2013-04-17-m0.u147	Let me finish.
ParlaMint-UA_2013-04-17-m0.u148	Therefore, colleagues, the faction of the All-Ukrainian Freedom Union, sharing the general messiahship and ideology of the Dennisov project, will vote in favour of its initiative. But in general, we understand that the problem of the pension system requires a much more complex solution. Thank you for your attention, all anti-fascists in particular. We'll be fine!
ParlaMint-UA_2013-04-17-m0.u149	Ladies and gentlemen, there's a proposal to work for another 10 minutes, a maximum of 15 minutes, and we're going to finish this consideration, and then we're going to take a break. Do you have a deal? I'm asking you to sign in, 10 minutes, from the deputies. Please sign up. Ten minutes is enough. Fatherland, People's Deputy of Leapina.
ParlaMint-UA_2013-04-17-m0.u150	Please pass the word to Paul.
ParlaMint-UA_2013-04-17-m0.u151	Please, Pavlovsky's national deputy. Here's the Rules.
ParlaMint-UA_2013-04-17-m0.u152	Andrey Pavlovsky, "Fatherland" faction. We're already talking a lot about pension reform, and I'd like to go to all the Ukrainian national deputies. I hope that, indeed, they are the deputies of Ukraine and the Ukrainian people, especially the majority deputies. Remember, when you were choosing how older people with tears in their eyes asked one of the main electoral requirements for you: to abolish this cannibal reform, which primarily offended millions of our Ukrainian women, by raising their pension age by five years. And it was supposed to be to save a terrible deficit in the pension fund. And what has been saved on women? In Ukrainian women, only 2 billion dollars. Is it worth it when one Yanukovic eats more than a billion dollars a year for his maintenance, and all the officials spend more than 30 billion dollars a year? And we're always raising the costs of the prosecution, of the courts being corrupt, of other officials. There you can look for reserves where you can take the money and close the pension hole. Return the money! The billionaires who are sitting in this room, return the money, invest in the Ukrainian economy from offshore, Cyprus, where you've already been cut in Cyprus, half of your deposits. Bring them back here, to Ukraine, let them work for Ukraine, create jobs here! There'll be more jobs, there'll be more payments to the Pension Fund. And so naturally you can solve this pension problem. What does Ludmila Dennisov’s bill propose? Very simple things, elementary things: get back to the state of how. in which we were prior to the adoption of this "humanistic" reform of Azarova Tihypak. At the same time, I would like to remind the Communists not to speculate here that on that disgraceful night, under your silent consent, Adam Martinyuk, who passed the most unpleasant antisocial laws for the Ukrainian people, Lithuania fled and left Martinyuk. Remember that, he was stretching these laws. You have full responsibility because Adam Martinyuk is a known communist. So I hope that everyone, and especially the majority, will remember their promises to the voters that they will have a conscience. And let's do it. We're going to do everything, the opposition, we're going to publish in every district, we're going to print postcards so everyone knows how who voted for the lifting of this cannibal pension reform. As for the opposition, the opposition actually made an amendment that raised, modernized pensions on 334 bracelets, but you even canceled it. So, majors, remember your voters, cancel.
ParlaMint-UA_2013-04-17-m0.u153	Please, Vitaly Klitschka Faction, Cherneg.
ParlaMint-UA_2013-04-17-m0.u154	Please pass the word to Alexander Mochkov.
ParlaMint-UA_2013-04-17-m0.u155	Alexander Motchkov, Vitaly Klitchak Faction.
ParlaMint-UA_2013-04-17-m0.u156	Dear Vladimir Vasilovich, distinguished national deputies! I appeal to you, first of all, to support the lifting of this shameful reform. How much can we abuse our pensioners and those who should retire today?Oh, my God! I'm talking to you. Take courage at last, not politically, but pragmatically. How will you then view your electorate in the eye? What will you then tell them? You are expected to abolish this shameful pension reform. I want to point out that the pension fund deficit in 2012 was 27.2 billion dollars, and for 2013 this deficit is now 21.8 billion dollars. The total deficit of the Pension Fund will be about 83 billion dollars. Therefore, the existence of this deficit makes it impossible to introduce a second level pension system. It can't go on like this. The strike faction fully supports the abolition of this pension reform and calls on all colleagues: don't be apathetic and don't be abusing pensioners! I call on all the national MPs, including, and above all, the national MPs from the political Party of the Regions: let's vote, let's build up courage, and finally come face to face with our electorate. [[Applause]] Mr. Stoyan said that the abolition of pension reform would have to be transferred from the budget seven billion dollars. I mean, you have to steal less -- and you don't have to flip anything out of the budget to make up for the Pension Fund. Thank you.
ParlaMint-UA_2013-04-17-m0.u157	Freedom Union, Sabia. And so is Schweik's national deputy. Please.
ParlaMint-UA_2013-04-17-m0.u158	Respectable Ukrainian voters, respected colleagues! At this time, the position of the All-Ukrainian Union of Freedom with regard to the bill under consideration, and with regard to all other bills, is as follows. We are conscious of how the political power has always stood up for the lifting of this robbery pension reform. There are no majors, including my fellow countrymen, who are now chanting about some mythical fascists from Luhansk and Kharkish, who would not have been visited by pensioners and would not have demanded a direct and undeniable lifting of the pension reform at every meeting with the National MP. Today we have one of the main tasks of the Cabinet of Ministers. On Monday, the left side of the Cabinet of Ministers meeting was devoted to one very important issue: determining the order of pensions for special merits to the state. There are nearly 700,000 pensioners out of the 12 million pensioners in Ukraine! Think about that figure. 700,000 pensioners with special merit, including before the non-existent state of the USSR, including encavedist officers, who destroyed Ukrainian peasants and townspeople. Including militia workers, prosecutors. In this regard, I would like to remind you of one widely known anecdote. When State inspectors are told to pay, he is very surprised that such a job is also paid. At this time, we have a vote in favour of this bill. One of the defining political positions. We realize that he does not solve all questions. But this is essentially the political position of each faction in one direction or another. The following actions should include tax reform, off-shore capital withdrawal, the return of Ukrainian wage earners to Ukraine, and not just an increase in retirement age. How the Cabinet of Ministers is trying to do this today, and above all the increase in the base from which contributions to the Pension Fund will be paid. Finally. Every vote in favour of pension reform, regardless of the noise of people who have seen little in their lives, besides trying to steal money from the state budget, will be a testimony and will be a powerful example. And I promise that every time I meet in Lugansk, Kharkiv district, I promise, and I do it every time, I come with a list of those deputies who voted against the abolition of pension reform.
ParlaMint-UA_2013-04-17-m0.u159	Thank you. National MP, Lassie, please. The last speaker and we'll make a decision.
ParlaMint-UA_2013-04-17-m0.u160	Labunska handed over who. Oleg Lazko, Radical Party. Dear citizens of Ukraine! Once and for all, let us put a stop to the question of who is to blame for the genocide of retirement. I can be the person who was sitting here until two nights ago in the Supreme Council Hall, when almost two years ago I passed this law, and I can say, frankly, in that increased retirement age for women in Ukraine, and everyone's talking about rising the retirement age for women, but they're forgetting that they've increased the pension age for men by 10 years, that men have suffered the same kind of genocide as women. So the perpetrators of the pension genocide are the government of Azarov, who formed the Party of Regions, the communists and the carcasses that came out of the faction of Fatherland and the faction of our Ukraine. And when Communists today say they're white and fluffy and they've dreamed of protecting Ukrainian women, don't lie to them, but you're with the regionals, and you're humiliating them, and you're robbing these women. I want to remind you, I'm not going to specifically call the name of the person who presided at the time so he wouldn't take the line, but it was the chairman of the Communists in the plenary that overturned my amendment, which allowed the elimination of 20-30 thousand pensions. And today we have millions of people, 5 million Ukrainians getting less than a thousand dollars, and half of the people sitting in this room get a pension of 20,000 dollars, including all the communists, the fighters for justice. Start the fight for justice with you: give up 20,000 pensions a month, and then pour crocodile tears. Next. There is no doubt that the Retirement Age Act should be repealed. But that's one step. The main thing to do is to create jobs. And in this Parliament, Vladimir Vasilovich, you would not have to extend lobby laws, but laws on tax cuts, laws on credit cuts, laws on restrictions on access to Ukrainian imports, so that our people have the opportunity to work. For at least a thousand years, raise that retirement age, and if there is no place to work, you will not earn your pension. And I suggest you start with me. That's why we registered with the Supreme Council a bill prohibiting us from going to the Supreme Council to retirees. To release all pensioners from the state service to free places for young people, for ordinary Ukrainian boys, girls who, through you, through authority, through Communists who are part of this authority, and through carcases, are robbing Ukrainian citizens. Retired genocide must be abolished!
ParlaMint-UA_2013-04-17-m0.u161	We'll make a decision. Adam Martinyuk and Stoyan later. And for the closing word.
ParlaMint-UA_2013-04-17-m0.u162	Martinyuk, faction of the Ukrainian Company. Thank you, Volodymyr Vasilovich, but thank you, I would like to make a note that you have given your word without justification to the greatest scream in the Supreme Council. He can see that I'm not there, and he's using it. He had absolutely no right to speak, so please don't give him the word on the mud. That's the first one. The other one. They will, of course, find that Martinyuk faithfully and conscientiously carried out his duties as chairman. I had such a sad position that I was obliged to review the laws, but I did not support them, and I did not vote for them. And you, Mr. Lazko and Mr. Pavlovski, see how they voted for the first time in 2007 in history when they adopted the 2008 budget and abolished more than 30 laws, including pension laws. That's where you started genocide, so.
ParlaMint-UA_2013-04-17-m0.u163	Thank you. Go sit down. Labunska, the national deputy of Labunska, handed the word Lyashko. He made a legal statement. Sit down, sit down. There'll be no lines. Please, Stoyan for the lineup. Baby, there'll be no lines.
ParlaMint-UA_2013-04-17-m0.u164	Ladies and gentlemen, I'd like to tell the young man from the strike faction. If you don't own the material, if you don't know what the subject is, why do you go out to the rostrum and not know what to say? These slogans, the accusations, they don't honor you or your political power. If you've been told that you know who stole 7 billion, we'll thank you if you name those names or put them in court and sue those billions that will go to the pensioners. And the last. Once again, I want to say professionally, competently, if we cancel the pension reform now, it will be a tragedy for today's millions of pensioners. Absolutely. Because we're not going to be able to review pensions, we're not going to be able to modernize pensions to those people who got out by 2008. It's going to be a budgetary tragedy, because we can't view it quarterly, raise pensions for budget workers. Do not vote in favour of reform.
ParlaMint-UA_2013-04-17-m0.u165	I ask for a closing statement, please, Ludmila Leontiyevna. All the lines are gone. Let's work. Please. It's a closing statement. Listen.
ParlaMint-UA_2013-04-17-m0.u166	Dear Mr. Head, honourable national deputies, we are now considering a very, very important issue that concerns millions of citizens of our state. I thank you for your very interesting conversation, for your discussion, for supporting my bill and for the co-authors of this bill. I want to remind the vast majority that Timoshenko's government was consistent in social policy, consistent with the issues of pensioners, veterans, disabled people. Here I want to remind you that, in fact, 498 dollars was the minimum pension for April 1, 2008. It was 100, as they say now, at this course. It's already 100 "bucks" for today: 894 bracelets. So what has this vast majority decided over the years that it has been in power? I want to remind you that Timoshenko's government has made a decision for the first time regarding overtime payments. And 10 years today would cost 89 bucks 40 bucks. It's not money, is it? This is not the support of our citizens who would have such an internship? And today they don't. If they're 30 years old, they're entitled to a minimum. They don't have one month, so they don't have the minimum pension, you know what's going on. And that's why we're proposing that we re-establish the required internship for the appointment of a minimum pension at the age of 25 for men, for women, for 20 years. Grant women the right to retire at 55 years of age. Return the right to take into account the salary to calculate the pension for any 60 calendar months of insurance acquired by 1 July 2000. Apply the average salary in Ukraine in the previous year to determine the average wage for retirement by age. To return the opportunity of people who need extra attention for a smaller insurance period to receive a disability pension. Grant working pensioners the right to a higher pension in case of an increase in living minimum. They have the right to do so. Because they're insurance. They're paying contributions to the Pension Fund. And take into account the average salary in Ukraine in the previous year when the pension is recalculated in connection with the acquisition of additional internships. I am very grateful and will be even more grateful to the Ukrainian citizens who are watching us on television. They listen and look forward to this bill. Thank you.
ParlaMint-UA_2013-04-17-m0.u167	Thank you. Final word to the chairman of the Suškević Committee. Please.
ParlaMint-UA_2013-04-17-m0.u168	Dear colleagues, I would like to ask you to really consider the numerous appeals to our pensioners' committee, to take into account the cries of women's help that they would retire at the age that was then foreseen by valid legislation, to take into account that today's pension reform requires real resources, resources to ensure the inadequacy of the Pension Fund. To take into account the proposals, including the Fatherland factions, as to what concerns the activization of the pension and its ability to pay, and to make sure that by eliminating this pension reform that the committee voted for today, the actual pension reform takes place. Today, a pensioner and one who is potential and who is now able to understand that his pension depends on his internship and salary. And today I would urge, and the overwhelming majority to vote in favour of these provisions, the pension reform, and to move on to real pension reform, by ensuring that the Pension Fund is inefficiencies, by raising the salary of today's, toned salary from the shadows, thus ensuring that the Pension Fund is recharged. I hope that today we will work on this issue and move on to second reading to ensure real pension reform. Thank you. Please support the adoption of the bill in the first reading.
ParlaMint-UA_2013-04-17-m0.u169	Ladies and gentlemen, I'd like to make an announcement. At nine o'clock there was this information: in the hospital, at nine o'clock, Mironenko Mikhailo Ivanovich, he's somewhere in the hall, here I see; there's a mountain, a national MP, at the hospital and Truhanov at the hospital. Next. Is Boris Ivanovich Tarasyuk there? Yes. He's supposed to be in Strasbourg from 16th to 18th, but the important question is, and he's in the hall. Next. Don't yell because I can't hear you! Next. National deputies of Ukraine who arrive on vacations from April 8 to 19, Dombrovsky. But he's in the hall, you see. Dropped from 16th to 17th, no. And the stallion from the 15th to the 27th. Is it? On vacation. And Boris Dutch Hospital. I don't have any other data. So let's move on to making a decision. Calm down, don't shout! I am voting on a draft law (registration No. 1073) amending the Ukrainian Act "On mandatory public pension insurance" (returning the pension age for women, the insurance system and the pension scheme). To be accepted as a basis. People's deputies, please vote. [[12:27:16]] For 221 Against - 3, held - 334, did not vote - 199. The decision is not taken. Region Party - 1, Fatherland - 93, Vitalia Klicka - 37, Freedom - 36, Company - 32, non-fractional - 22. I'm calling it a 13-hour break. At 13 o'clock, we'll continue the session.
ParlaMint-UA_2013-04-17-m0.u170	Invite me to the session room. Make an announcement. Vote? Ladies and gentlemen, we continue our work. The draft Act amending Chapter XV of the Ukrainian Act on State Pension Insurance is being considered (as regards the regulation of the provision of pensions by age). Once again, the registration number of Project 1110. What are some suggestions on this issue? There's an offer -- it's a reduced procedure. I put it to a vote: who, in order to deal with this issue in a simplified manner, asks the national MPs to vote. [[13:05:04]] For 104 Against – 75, held – two, not voted – 141. The decision is not taken. The question is being considered in full procedure. The word is given to the Ukrainian national deputy Volodymyr Mikhailovich Litvina. Please.
ParlaMint-UA_2013-04-17-m0.u171	Dear Vladimir Vasilovich, distinguished colleagues! I ask you, without political motivation, perhaps there, personal sympathy or antipathies to approach the consideration and discussion of this bill. Briefly, what it refers to is the essence of the bill. Dear colleagues, in view of the adoption of the Act on Measures for Legislative Reform of the Pension System, it is known that the pension age has been increased by five years for women and two years for other categories. At the same time, it was decided that the transition would be less painful and extended for ten years. At the same time, however, the insurance time to obtain a minimum pension was increased by 10 years, from 25 to 35, respectively, from 20 to 30 years. And there was this situation for a number of reasons. Well, first of all, a lot of people, especially in rural areas, especially women, don't have the opportunity to make a pension because they don't have insurance because they don't have jobs or because they're taking care of their children, because they're older parents. And today they're receiving an exclusive minimum pension. Therefore, it is proposed that by 2020 a transition be established so that people will be able to get the necessary insurance treatment without pain. More simply, let those who can no longer work because of their absence of jobs and under other circumstances retire earlier. I'm pretty sure that's the answer to social justice, because people were counting on retirement for 20 and 25 years, respectively. This will meet at least the heavy demands of the Constitution of Ukraine, the corresponding articles of which state that decisions cannot be made that aggravate people’s social well - being. I should say that the honourable colleagues that this issue has been actively discussed at the committee meeting, and I am grateful to the members of the committee, the head of the committee, who have taken an understanding of this legislative initiative and have decided to recommend to the Supreme Council of Ukraine, taking into account the comments of the Chief Scientific and Scientific Administration, that they should accept the bill as a basis. I'd like to ask you to make that decision. Obviously, it will have a compromising character. But it may be necessary to take one step to meet or to say if there are jobs so that women can first get the necessary insurance. And especially in rural areas. Thank you.
ParlaMint-UA_2013-04-17-m0.u172	Please. Any questions for Vladimir Mikhailovich? None. Thank you. Word for a report to the head of the Committee on Pensioners, Veterans and Disabled Persons Valery Mikhajlovich Suškević Please.
ParlaMint-UA_2013-04-17-m0.u173	Thank you, Vladimir Vasilovich. National MP Suškević, head of the Committee on Pensioners, Veterans and Disabled Persons. I report that this bill, number 1110, was considered on ours. At our committee meeting. And, as the author has said, the bill proposes to soften one of the so - called pension reform standards that has been introduced, and an increase in the required pensions to a minimum of 30 years has been made for women, 35 for men. The bill suggests that pensioners and those who are about to retire be softened by the harsh standards of the so-called pension reform in order to increase the required retirement to a minimum. And so it's not permanent and it's 10 years in men and women, it's a gradual transition: from 20 years to 30 years for women and from 25 years to 35 years for men. This is done in a version of, let's say, time size. And the committee took note of this issue, and pointed out that as of today, young people have captured the most paid jobs in the labour market, and retirees are mostly working in the field of budgeting with a low level of wage. Real pension reform did not take into account the fact that pensioners compensate for low wages by having another source of income to retire. And actually today, the committee is pointing out that we need to first analyze this situation, create the right conditions so that people can retire later, thereby increasing the retirement age of the person's choice. And actually then we're going to ask the citizens to work longer, which is to think about it. And today, the pension reform that the committee is talking about has not answered the current questions for working people today, or the ready labour market for the use of the pre-pension labour force. How will those who retire later be protected, and will they not fill the ranks of the unemployed, just unemployed, by the fact that they are their age, and receive various forms of government assistance? Do we not put them on the back of the country before they could simply retire for other forms of material assistance? And this state aid is the same government fund from the same government pocket, which significantly reduces the positive balance of income from the Pension Fund as a result of an increase in retirement age, an unwarranted, not a resource increase in retirement age. And the question is, in fact, in the committee we're essentially considering this bill and others, whether we're aware of these extra expenses, or if someone has counted these extra costs, which are due to a permanent transition to an increased 10-year minimum period. On these questions, no one answers our committee, our national deputies, those who care about pension reform. But worst of all. I'm glad no one's analyzing this situation yet. That is why the committee, after considering the legislative proposal of the Lithuanian national deputy, agreed with the option of at least mitigating the effects of pension reform and such conditional diversification at the time of the increase in retirement age. I would like to point out that the Chief Scientific and Experimental Authority has made a number of observations with which the committee agrees. For example, when it comes to conforming to standards. The bill of pensions that have already been calculated today after the so-called pension reform, which takes into account the retirement of men, is 35 years and 30 years. And a general conclusion from the Chief Scientific and Scientific Administration that this bill could be adopted in the first reading. Please be supportive. Thank you.
ParlaMint-UA_2013-04-17-m0.u174	Any questions for Valery Mikhailovich? None. We're looking at it in full. Yes. Please sign up. Please, Sobolev, the Fatherland faction.
ParlaMint-UA_2013-04-17-m0.u175	Sobolje, Fatherland. Dear Valery Mikhailovich, don't you think that when Mr. Litwin, along with his faction, voted with the "Regions" for the law that cut off people's hands, now proposes to cut this hand by 20 years of consumption? Is that a way out of this? Retirement for women in the 60 ’ s remains unretired, and there remains the impossibility of providing information on similar businesses, as was the case in the previous law before 1990. The next 420,000 will be looking for a way to get them to retire, because they can't form any pension papers. So, in my opinion, you have to either make decisions, not simulate work here, because you can only fix the crime that Janukovic, Azar and Tihypk committed, in one way. This is to cancel the decision, and then go back to the question of how to fill the fund and other things. Thank you.
ParlaMint-UA_2013-04-17-m0.u176	The Freedom Union. Orphan. For the sake of question, for the committee's head. Please.
ParlaMint-UA_2013-04-17-m0.u177	Thank you, colleague Sobolev, for asking, it is absolutely right and fundamental. In fact, today's real alternative, I'm sorry, is such a direct thoughtless, heartless rise in retirement age and even in women, there have been alternatives. Our committee, the Fatherland faction, other opposition forces have offered specific options that could have been an alternative because of the rise in retirement age. It is the issue of getting out of the shadow of wages, the issues related to the modernisation of pensions, the issues related to the elimination of what affects the departure of our national labour force abroad, and so forth. The issue of political will to eliminate debt on wages, pay reform, and so forth. All these questions, they didn't touch the government's activities, and they didn't.
ParlaMint-UA_2013-04-17-m0.u178	Please, Kirilenko. The Fatherland faction.
ParlaMint-UA_2013-04-17-m0.u179	Please give the word to your colleague Yavorowski.
ParlaMint-UA_2013-04-17-m0.u180	Please pass it on to Yavorowski.
ParlaMint-UA_2013-04-17-m0.u181	Vladimir Yavorowski, Kyiv, Troustina, Yulia Party Timoshenko Dear reporter, Mr. Valerius, today one of these, I would say, I think the Ideological Sanitaries of the Party of the Regions today have said such a phrase that they say the opposition deliberately is such a bill that you see the authorities cannot, can't or won't implement. That is, this authority is capable of enacting anti-national, anti-social laws. And to accept the normal is already, of course, that's all for today's game. So tell me, please, maybe that authority that can't do what we're proposing might just go ahead and not get tired of the head of the Ukrainian people and go to a bad hour.
ParlaMint-UA_2013-04-17-m0.u182	Please.
ParlaMint-UA_2013-04-17-m0.u183	Dear Mr. Yavorowski, you know, I'm surprised that today specific things about the need to reform pension reform are virtually forgotten. The forgotten and efforts of many national deputies in this room, including from the opposition, to turn, motivate the Ukrainian government and Ukrainian authorities to do something for real reform of the Ukrainian pension system to consider the resources involved in filling the Pension Fund. All these questions remain unanswered. And my expectations are that today we should motivate Ukrainian authorities or today's government or the next government to make a real analysis of pension reform, a real analysis of pension insurance, a real analysis of the lives of pensioners for that tiny pension. I want to.
ParlaMint-UA_2013-04-17-m0.u184	Freedom Union, Orphanage.
ParlaMint-UA_2013-04-17-m0.u185	Please pass the word to Edward Leon.
ParlaMint-UA_2013-04-17-m0.u186	Pass it on, please.
ParlaMint-UA_2013-04-17-m0.u187	Dear Valery Mikhailovich, during our committee meetings at the previous meeting, representatives of the Ministry of Social Policy and Labour presented us with a table of economics, the so-called budget economy of the Pension Fund, thanks to the so-called pension reform. And we can see that in Ukrainian women alone, the rise in the retirement age for women gave this kind of pseudo-economy 1 billion 248 million dollars in 2012 alone. So basically the money was left to our Ukrainian women because of the increase in retirement age. Similarly, an increase of 10 years in the necessary pension service has saved half a billion dollars for the Pension Fund. What steps are being taken to increase the income of the Pension Fund?
ParlaMint-UA_2013-04-17-m0.u188	It's time to ask. Please answer.
ParlaMint-UA_2013-04-17-m0.u189	Thank you, Mr. Edward, for asking. And I want to tell you, in my speech today, I very often call the word "resource," the resources involved in pension reform. So, what I'm saying is, the pension, so-called, reform that you've been doing, and by which you've named the billion that you've been given as a result of the so-called pension reform, it's on women's salaries and pensions. This is the main resource of the pension reform that has taken place, which has been wasted in the last election company. Understand that today the resources are different, they are economic, they are socially neutral resources that the committee stressed to make a pension reform that would not go straight for the Ukrainian pensioner. Not to make pension reform at the expense of the pensioners themselves, this is the main problem that has taken place today.
ParlaMint-UA_2013-04-17-m0.u190	Ladies and gentlemen, please sign up for the factions. "Freedom," Martinks, please. People's deputy Leonov. Please.
ParlaMint-UA_2013-04-17-m0.u191	Dear National Deputies! Dear Ukrainian people! Today, crime, another crime of an active minority is taking place because a minority of Ukrainian voters voted in favour of the Party of Regions and its policies. Most Ukrainians voted in favour of opposition political parties. And today this minority, which has usurped power, by manipulating MPs, with carcasses, this minority today condemns the Ukrainian people to poverty, condemns Ukrainian elderly people to simply not live to retirement, not to live to deserved rest, and just not live to see when this criminal anti-Ukrainian authority goes away. Dear Ukrainians! Today, two bills that could actually put an end to this illegal pension reform have been failed. Disrupted by the fact that only by the hand, this one, I don't know what to call it, the conductor, this predominant minority in the session hall, has actually been blocked from voting for the abolition of pension reform. But the All-Ukrainian Freedom Union will continue to work hard to get laws through the Supreme Council's session hall to bring about real pension reform. Already under consideration by the Supreme Council Committee on Pensioners, there is a bill by Tuggnibok that cancels the social inequality between the various pension groups. We demand to limit the ceiling of pensions to five times the minimum pension, so that these authorities do not get a pension that is 20-30 times the pension of an ordinary person, but that everyone gets one. You want to get more pension, officer, you want to get a bigger pension -- raise the minimum pension rate, raise the social security of the unprotected population. The numbers at which the Pension Fund will save its savings are scary numbers! The pension fund is in no way filling up, the pension fund is just saving itself, saving on the rise of age, on the rise of the insurance system. And there's a lot of sources of filling up the Pension Fund, and I've already called one of them: we need to reduce the maximum pension limit. The gap between the minimum and the maximum pension should be no more than five times, which is suggested by the Thignibok in his bill. The other one. We need to move away from the disgraceful system when the so-called stimulus of the economy takes place at the expense of the fullness of the Pension Fund. Because, through our committee, they're trying to carry out, for example, the initiative of son Yanukovic, Victor Yanukovic, who wants to stimulate the development of IT technology at the expense of the non-payment to the Pension Fund. We won't let that happen. We're going to do everything we can to make this bill, Lithuania, at least a little bit better for the social situation right now.
ParlaMint-UA_2013-04-17-m0.u192	The word is "Fatherland", Kirilenko Ivan Grigorovich.
ParlaMint-UA_2013-04-17-m0.u193	Dear Mr. Head! Dear colleagues! Dear voters! In the heat of emotion, of fact, of argument, it's hard to find something extra in this extremely sensitive question, but I'll try. First of all, dear friends. Ukraine's huge failure to reform today, namely, land, medical, tax and, of course, pension -- is that their authors, apologists, organizers, instigators were born not in Ukraine, but in Mercedes (). [[Applause]] That's the first one. The other one. Regrettably, is it not known to authors that the average life expectancy in Ukraine was 62 years, and this is due to an older generation that had better food, a better environment, and a better health system? Now the killer's ecology, now the health system, is that it needs to be protected, the food -- you know what it is. And you know what our life expectancy is today: Up to 62 years of age, people do not live. Five years from now, we will have a pension like that of Belgium: it will simply be paid to no one. Did the authors not know that it was impossible to find work in Ukraine at 35 years of age? Pension reform is a blow to a Ukrainian woman, a fatal blow, and this is a fatal blow to Ukraine. Of the six million compatriots working abroad, forced to work, the left hand side is women. At what age? 35 years. Now, let's do 10 years of retirement. It's a 10-year-old woman's place. And where do young girls go to do what should come to this job? Come on, guess where they'll be? At best, they're going to add six million to the worse. I don't want to keep talking and interpreting. Dear friends, of course, Lithuania's bill is a half decision. The ideal solution is to cancel and forget this so-called "pension reform" as a nightmare. The exit is where the entrance is. Dear friends, demonopolize the economy. Chemistry and metallurgy, metallurgy and chemistry are nowhere else to be found. And even in these areas, which are export-oriented, the world price is equal to metal and chemistry, so why is the wages in these sectors seven times lower than in the countries of the European Union? Raise your salary, the pension fund, of course, and the more assured pension will be in successive generations. The next question was, right, shadow economy. It's not just 150 billion shades, it's 300 billion. Get out of the shadows. You also said you'd simplify the tax system. We're proposing our bills, not 117 taxes, but seven taxes. Friends, many basic issues, starting with the cancellation of offshore zones. They've all been canceled, they're staying for Ukraine. Dozens of billions of hard work, as the classic said, as a cow with its tongue came down without any taxes. Let's solve the basics and fill the Pension Fund with real money, not assurances. Our proposals are. Thank you.
ParlaMint-UA_2013-04-17-m0.u194	Party of regions, who? Jaroslav Suhi, please.
ParlaMint-UA_2013-04-17-m0.u195	Dear colleagues, this room is often juggled with the words "pension reform." It's really about modernizing the solidarity pension system. Pension reform is something else. I want to remind everyone who wants to listen, to tell their constituents, and listen. The pension reform of Ukraine began in December 1993, and in October 1993 the pension reform began with us in Poland. We started with what we accepted and they're the concept of social security for the population that decided to move from pension insurance to pension insurance. Remember, we've been working hard for ten years, we've been in the media, we've been in the cycle of "pension reform step by step," we've been going to create the Pension Fund, and we've been going to the introduction of the Law on National Compulsory Social Pension Insurance. This happened in 2003, and since 2004, this law has been in force. Maybe you forgot, then I'll remind you that in 2002 the minimum pension in Ukraine was 70.48, then 70 and 480 was in 2008-2009. What didn't set us up in the pension system? We didn't get what our voters told us. Well, why is it that the retirement payments in market transformations don't depend on internships and wages? Now imagine if there wasn't a power of will here in the session room and we didn't vote for pension changes and there wasn't a pension fund, a pension fund, where the budget would now take almost 200 billion dollars? This is the budget of the Pension Fund for today and it's missing, and we're forced to fill out from the state budget. This is not a problem, nor is it scary, and remember, five types of pensions in Ukraine. We're only talking about one today -- retirement by age. There is also a retirement pension for years, disability, loss of a breadwinner, and, so called, a social pension. We haven't even approached them yet. Pension reform is the modernisation of the solidarity, it's the second set-up mandatory, the co-worker here has been talking about the development of non-state pension insurance. We haven't even gotten to it yet. Ivan Grigorovich, and I am to this man who came to us from Trinity. What was I talking about? That the former prime minister is now in opposition, the former deputy prime minister is now in opposition, said one thing -- now quite another. What is needed to ensure the steady development of the Pension Fund? The legalization of wages, we know that, will bring $14 billion. Full employment is another 20 billion. Indicative wages in the non-state sector are another 40 billion dollars. Disposal of non-proprietary functions. Has previous governments and today done anything in this regard? Everyone did something anyway. Politics is completely out of the question. If it were so simple, so easy and accessible to change something, it's clear that they've changed a long time ago. It takes time, it takes good will.
ParlaMint-UA_2013-04-17-m0.u196	It's Vitaly Calla. Capplin, please.
ParlaMint-UA_2013-04-17-m0.u197	Capplin Sergey, Vitaly Klitschka Faction. I was born in a common village in Poltava. And just like many of you, I know that a Ukrainian woman in the country is working two shifts. The first is at work, the second is at home. And we have no moral right to spit in the face of an ordinary Ukrainian woman. I'm very sorry that the communists with the regionals and those who called themselves pushers, but who are politicians, failed the pension reform there, failed the changes to pension reform. You're saying there's no money? And 3.4 billion dollars per prosecutor's office, up 20 percent for a year! What, we've got a crime scene?Oh, my God! What about 16 billion dollars a year for the Ministry of Internal Affairs? What, we've got a crime scene? And are those people to whom you increase the retirement age their children are safe on the streets and at home? You're saying there's no money? And 280 million dollars to build new government houses for the DUSS, when you predicted 50?Oh, my God! Three times the budget! You say there's no money. How about 180 million dollars for the President's flight?Oh, my God! You're saying there's no money? What about a billion to maintain power?Oh, my God! Why do you laugh at an ordinary Ukrainian person? Think about it. I want all the Ukrainians to know that there are 2 million dollars for repairs to the Supreme Council Committees this year. Think about it! It's a real genocide over a woman, it's a genocide over a peasant, over a worker. And the pensioners? And the pensioners are poor. A thousand dollars of retirement, two-thirds of a person spends on a pharmacy and spends the rest on a utility. But a Ukrainian, Ukrainian, retired woman bought herself a handkerchief one last time at Brezhnev's. Our Ukrainian pensioners, who have sponsored your parties, have built roads, factories, factories, and preserved the land. You know, you all have factions leaders, but I think it's important for you, and you have to remember, there's another leader -- the Lord God. You have to answer for these people. We have no right today to make decisions that will continue to embarrass a simple Ukrainian peasant, a simple worker. I am convinced that we must now take a revolutionary step: to take this decision, to vote and to continue fighting for the end of this pension reform.
ParlaMint-UA_2013-04-17-m0.u198	Let me finish.
ParlaMint-UA_2013-04-17-m0.u199	And the next step we take is to put Azarov away. I know that's where they're going to spend Saturday, we're going to participate. Thus, the real Sabbath will be when we make these two decisions, for we will rid Ukraine of real garbage — your laws and the Prime Minister. Thank you.
ParlaMint-UA_2013-04-17-m0.u200	The faction of the Ukrainian Company, the national deputy of Parubok.
ParlaMint-UA_2013-04-17-m0.u201	Dear Volodymyr Vasilovich, honourable deputies! One said "love friends," and we don't say "love friends" in the village, but they say "slaves," because in the village they only work to hire, and we don't say the word "ma'am," so let's say "girl." I want to say the following, let's remind the post-war story. Who Restored the State? The village rebuilt the state. I remember when they were 14 or 15 years old, they took the boys to the F.O.S. and sent them to the mines, to the factories, to the sawmills. I remember when my mother got up at 4: 00 a.m., I was defending myself, and by 10:00 p.m., she was running around the field to grow bread. I remember when the wounded frontalists came in, they got tight, too. And for your information, no one gave anything in the village until 1962. And they knew it was patriotism, that it was to save the state. In 1964, the first pension was introduced for peasants — 12 bracelets. But there were 400 to 450 people working in each village and the Pension Fund, and all the funds were being dumped. And then, when there were 12 bracelets, only 7 percent were spent for rural pensioners, the rest went for the teacher, for the doctor, for the miner. Where there was not enough money, they went there. When the pension was 27 rubles, 17 percent when the pension was 70 rubles, 40 percent. Think about what we're talking about today. In the village, the girl graduated from 11 classes, perhaps without the ability to give in, perhaps with her father’s money. She won't do anything, she's gone to work on the farm. She worked 15 years in prison, five hours in the morning in a swamp with no light in her rubber boots, and she had to walk 10-12 kilometers, and the state was destroyed, and the Colombias collapsed. The cologne was destroyed — it was no longer a state. Because there was no farm and there was no one to work. And this girl is out of a job. And for her to live to be 30 years old to earn a retirement age, only 3 out of 10 survives. What we're talking about today is, let's be humanly concerned, in the fatherly way, in the motherly sense of this village. In the village, people, I'm sorry, in such a divine state, that if you went all the way to the villages and asked our superiors to pass through and communicate with the people, they would tell you where more, what I can now tell you, because I have limited time, and let's go back to those regulations, and what Peter Simonenko has reported is a very good decision.
ParlaMint-UA_2013-04-17-m0.u202	Thank you. People's deputies please sign up for the performances. Replica when we're done with the question. Sign up for the show. Please, Fatherland faction, Kucheruk.
ParlaMint-UA_2013-04-17-m0.u203	Ladies and gentlemen, I would like to say today that I fully support the abolition of the so-called pension reform. Why should this happen? Because, according to the Communist Party MP, there are also slaves living in the villages. Why so? I have in the District of Brezniv among the 50,000 voters of 19 and a half thousand people who do not work, who do not receive pensions and who do not stand in the center of employment. Who are these people? They're people who live in villages, towns, they don't have jobs, because today you didn't vote in favour of reducing that and revoking that shameful reform. So I can tell you how a simple woman in the village tells you how to live her life. She lives up to 55 years old and hoped that she would start getting some money, some minimum pension, but she was told, this decision, this reform, this disgraceful one. And they say, "No, wait two more years." And then she asks me, "Tell me that I won't get a pension for two years? I waited five years, I didn't have a job, so what is it? If I took a thousand dollars a month, did I have $24,000 stolen in two years?".. And she's right. Who stole $24,000 from her in two years? This is the right half of the room. And I want to say that there are a lot of majors in the Party of Regions. I know the Cherkas region, I was there recently. And they say, well, we voted for it, we voted for it. And I'm saying that everything is going to show how they're going to vote in this room. And I saw that the Kyiv majors in the area, the pilgrim majors, the Church majors, didn't give a single vote for that peasant and for that peasant. So let me say on behalf of those people, "You're embarrassed because you don't think about your constituents. You only think about your own pockets. They're full, and people are impoverished, and more and more are living in destruction." So I support at least this.
ParlaMint-UA_2013-04-17-m0.u204	The faction of the Party of the Regions, Stoyan, National MP.
ParlaMint-UA_2013-04-17-m0.u205	Dear colleagues, well, it's been said a lot. There's a lot of political nagging. Of course, the question is a matter of principle, and it must be resolved. I'm going to repeat what I said on the stand about what really reform worked a year and it needs further reform. But I want us to specifically discuss the Vladimir Litvina bill. This is the most, I would say, pragmatic, specific bill and specific proposal. What does Vladimir Mikhailovich propose? He's really offering a smart thing. Unfortunately, in that pension reform we adopted, we wrote: "Secondly period of retirement." So every six months, it's going to add up to six months, and in that way, in 10 years, women will come out. In 10 years, they'll be 60 years old. But we've released a very important point that those people who, for example, retire at 55 years of age and 56 years of age should have a completely different background: 30 years. And it's not an internship because a woman worked quietly, let's say, she went to work at 30 years of age, 25 years of age under different circumstances -- and she doesn't have an internship today, reaching retirement age, and she can't retire. So I would certainly consider it an option to support the Vladimir Mikhailovich Litvin bill, but it does not solve the problem as a whole. In general, the problem needs to be solved in a complex way. That is, to take into account what Ludmila Denisov said, because it coincides with the age and age of insurance and what other suggestions were made. So I'd like to ask now, my dear colleagues, whether it will be accepted or not to accept the Lithuanian project, that's another matter. Gather those people who are in serious pain for change, not just to talk and shout "and my father worked, my mother worked," but to finish the bill. And what I want to say is, let the television audience know, that no bill that we're considering -- three bills -- is canceling the pension reform. There is no item number one: Cancel pension reform, there are some changes either to that position or to another position. So if you go to the pile: two proposals is the retirement age, which is really controversial and you have to look at it, and that's the internship, that's all. So let's, let's just work calmly, hear each other, and sit down. We have a government commission. I mean, I invite everyone who wants to work, and we'll make serious changes. Because we're not saying pension reform for pyar, and pension reform for our voters, for the sake of our pensioners. From the point of view of the protection of the pensioners of today’s and the future, I call for constructive cooperation. Thank you.
ParlaMint-UA_2013-04-17-m0.u206	The Fatherland faction, Kugel, National MP.
ParlaMint-UA_2013-04-17-m0.u207	Thank you, Vladimir Vasilovich. I want, with this opportunity, to address our voters, the people of Ukraine. Honorable Ukrainians, today four parties, four factions carried out their preeminent programs. There were twice two bills on the abolition of pension reform, and there were twice as many votes missing, unfortunately five or six votes. There were 12 representatives of the Party of the Regions in the first vote, but Ludmila Denisov's bill from "The Fatherland" was already being drafted by the Party of the Regions -- and these people were just destroyed from the hall, and they weren't there. We promise you that every major who has promised you to abolish this pension reform will be informed of how he carried out these duties. We would very much like you to include shame and respect for those women whom you sent to retirement five years later. I support a hundred percent of every speaker who knows today that no woman can find a job after 35 or 40 years. Who gave you the right to add such an internship? Please tell me, who are you counting on? Or you, the Party of Regions, will bear children. A woman who has given birth to two children will never have such an internship again. Who are you counting on? Or you don't see this country as a whole. It wasn't reform, let's face it, it was just a change in age and stress on women in Ukraine. It is only that year that 442,000 Ukrainians were unable to form a pension because of the issue that we are considering today in the third law, Mr. Lithuania. And we have a dilemma, very serious. We realize that if we cannot amputate this reform, at least give first aid. Vladimir Mikhailovich, we will support this as a first aid. But, Vladimir Vasilovich, we need to go back to the draft, or Mishchenka, or Denisov. You can't do that. Today we have negative consequences. They promised that there would be no budget deficit. Yes. Entrepreneurs don't pay today, they hide because it's a lot of pressure, we don't put in a second level. I call on all the deputies: you can't make a decision about the burden on ordinary people when we're only paying $17,000 off the salary of the Pension Fund today. If a person receives a thousand wages and pays 37 percent, and the person who receives 50,000 pays only 17,000. Many questions in the economy: no jobs. Please tell me, what are we counting on? Abbreviations.
ParlaMint-UA_2013-04-17-m0.u208	Let me finish.
ParlaMint-UA_2013-04-17-m0.u209	There's a party of regions shouting "Enough." I really hope that the Ukrainian people will say "sufficient" to you. And that's why we have to cancel the pension reform. Thank you.
ParlaMint-UA_2013-04-17-m0.u210	Party of regions, Evening.
ParlaMint-UA_2013-04-17-m0.u211	Dear National Deputies! What I'm saying is that there should be a pension reform, and we don't need emotions like they were in the hall today. Because you have to go through dissipation more often. I want to say the next thing. First of all, the Party of Regions cannot today satisfy the low level of pension provision for our fellow countrymen. This is the first time. In general, the average pension is one thousand and 151. It's different. There is now a deep contradiction between the solidarity principle of filling the Pension Fund and the unfair approach to its distribution. Thirdly, there is a need to release the solidarity system of pension insurance from pension payments to individual categories that did not participate in the formation of the Pension Fund. Fourthly, it is necessary to create an effective mechanism for the practical introduction of the second level of pension insurance. A formed working group in the government needs to be processed, approached, and supported by Lithuanian and Dennis law, as amended. And then all the factions will vote together. You don't need to reform the pianist council -- you need to reform for the lives of our children, women and all of Ukraine's citizens. Thank you. Praise the people of Ukraine!
ParlaMint-UA_2013-04-17-m0.u212	Thank you! For the closing statement, Volodymyr Mihajlovich, please. I'll give you a line before the vote.
ParlaMint-UA_2013-04-17-m0.u213	Dear Vladimir Vasilovich, distinguished colleagues! I am grateful for the presentation and for the discussion on this subject and for the criticism that has been made here by those to whom it is also worth keeping silent. Because we have this amazing situation: when we speak in authority, as it were, of higher national interests, when power is lost, we begin to refer to the people. I'm not going to give any examples. [[Applause]] And now, essentially. And now essentially the bill. It was a very nice, healthy thought by Jaroslav Mikhailovich Suhogo, and Alexander Mikolaiovich Stoyan spoke about it, but the ending was very amazing: let's create another working group, and we'll drown everything in it. Let's create! But all of you, dear colleagues, agree that most of the women didn't think that immediately, one minute, the insurance will be increased by 10 years. And let's answer the ancient question: what to do to a woman with her hands bent, who worked her entire life in this cologne, and he went bankrupt tens of years ago, and he was destroyed? And it's usually about people who worked in businesses that are bankrupt today. Where can she find a job? What's wrong with that? I'm talking to those leaders who run and dissipate factions and people from the session hall if we take this bill as a basis, and then, honourable colleagues, the working group is working on it? But we are all aware that this decision must be made. And sooner or later, we're going to accept it, but with bigger losses. It's obvious! And I don't have to, I get it, but I'm afraid that voters are going to ask, and so on. Questions in our conscience, in our responsibility, because in comfort here, while in the session room, we can engage in moralism and teach each other. So I absolutely propose that we provide a pragmatic approach, that we take this compromise step, or we're going to go forever back to this question, that we destroy the Supreme Council and ourselves, and that we're going to oppress Ukrainian society. But I don't think there's any need for positions to be clearly defined and to speak empty. I'm asking you to make a decision that you've all made. Thank you.
ParlaMint-UA_2013-04-17-m0.u214	Thank you. I ask your closing words, Suškevitch Valeriy Mihajlovich.
ParlaMint-UA_2013-04-17-m0.u215	Respectful colleagues certainly do not solve all the issues related to pension reform today. And today, as many speakers have rightly pointed out, we need to pay attention to the real moments, the resources that balance the Pension Fund, which actually support the Ukrainian pensioner and provide support to those people who work and hope for a decent pension. And in this situation, the committee was in a position to make the horror of using women as a means of pension reform to soften it to make a person suffer less from this pension reform. And the committee is aware that if the real and positive moments that eliminate those pension reform positions that have been tried today by the Dennis Bill, Mishchenka, eliminate them as the result of pension reform, the committee has supported this legislative proposal. You're to be determined, please.
ParlaMint-UA_2013-04-17-m0.u216	Ladies and gentlemen, may I have your attention? Martinjuk Adam Ivanovich is a replicator.
ParlaMint-UA_2013-04-17-m0.u217	Thank you. [[B in m in s a l in]] Thank you. Martinyuk, faction of the Ukrainian Company. Respectful colleagues, the attitude of Communists to reform, to pensioners, to people living in the countryside, have said quite well, and you better not say the person who knows the village best, twice the Hero of Social Work, whose parliamentary internship is more than some people have lived. And here I am talking to those who lived in a typical village. You either didn’t have a school, or you don’t know how to count your head. You translate from a healthy to a sick person. Again and again, I remind you that in the wake of the end of the reform, seven members of the UDA, the Communists have consistently voted in favour of this shameful reform. So please, when you go out to the rostrum and start yelling about something, think about what your cry will be. Be a little bit calmer, you're just starting a parliamentary Asian.
ParlaMint-UA_2013-04-17-m0.u218	Attention! Ladies and gentlemen, I am voting on the draft Act (registration No. 111) amending Chapter XV of the Ukrainian Law on General Compulsory State Pension Insurance (registration of retirement by age) for adoption as a basis. People's deputies, please vote. [[13:58:29]] For the 208th. Against -3, held -32, did not vote – 105. The decision is not taken. The factions. Region Party 2, Fatherland 86, Vitaly Klicka 31, Freedom 36, Ukraine Company 31, non-fractional 22. The morning session of the Supreme Council of Ukraine is closed. Tomorrow at 10 o'clock, we'll continue our work.
