ParlaMint-UA_2013-09-19-m1.u1	Dear National Deputies! Please prepare for registration. Turn on the "Race" system. [[16:02:55]] There were 359 national deputies registered in the hall. I declare the evening session of the Supreme Council of Ukraine open. Dear National Deputies, there was a meeting in the Cabinet of the Supreme Council, with the participation of faction leaders, with the participation of the committee, and it was decided to consider the matter immediately, and to vote, to be determined by Law 2399. We agreed that now I would give representatives of all factions a minute. A reporter, a representative of the committee, will then speak. And I'm going to put Law 2399 to the vote. So I'm asking you to sign up for the factions. Who's gonna come out of the Freedom faction? Please, the People's Deputies of Kyde.
ParlaMint-UA_2013-09-19-m1.u2	Thank you. Alexy Kaida, the All-Ukrainian Freedom Union. Dear Vladimir Vasilovich! Deputies! You know, it's too bad, but somehow we're in the walls of Parliament watching some sort of smuggling. Why? Because there have already been consultations on Bill 2399. And in the presence of the minister who has verified what will be removed from the last of those final positions, no one needs to be noted. In order to enforce the decisions of the European courts. And now, again, we are putting this bill into the agenda, where these articles have not been deleted. We will, our faction of the All-Ukrainian Freedom Union will support this bill. But if those arrangements were actually reached and the money was guaranteed by the European courts. I also stressed that it would actually be good to make an amendment if these payments were made for.
ParlaMint-UA_2013-09-19-m1.u3	Let me finish.
ParlaMint-UA_2013-09-19-m1.u4	For these payments to be made at the expense of judges who approved illegal decisions. And I'm addressing them, and using the opportunity that Mr. Minister is here, he's present in this room, asking them to have the Ministry draft such a bill, and we're happy to vote in favour of this bill. Thank you.
ParlaMint-UA_2013-09-19-m1.u5	People's Deputy Rosenco, Vitalia Klitschak faction. Please.
ParlaMint-UA_2013-09-19-m1.u6	Paul Rosenco, Vitaly Caller's Faction. I would like to stress once again the position of our faction, it is actually consistent, that unfortunately, the law that was passed by the former Supreme Council of Ukraine has effectively blocked the execution of the decisions of our citizens' courts for social payments, for payments made to black people, children of war, working pensioners, and so on. So our main task right now is to find an opportunity and find a mechanism to make these decisions work. And that's why we're really waiting for all of these agreements to be made public at your meeting, Vladimir Vasilovich, to be made public right now, and only then is it obvious that we're voting and this will allow for the decision of the courts on social issues. And then, of course, the impact faction in that case.
ParlaMint-UA_2013-09-19-m1.u7	Thank you. The Fatherland faction, Arsenius Yatzenuk. Please.
ParlaMint-UA_2013-09-19-m1.u8	Dear Vladimir Vasilovich, honourable members of Parliament! Once again, our position was the next. This law, which was passed by the government, could not be voted on, as the law restricted the rights of Ukrainian citizens to enforce judicial decisions. We agreed to do the following at your meeting. First. To deprive the Cabinet of Ministers of the right to determine the order of execution of decisions and to determine the order of payment of such decisions. And remove from part two of article 3 the Cabinet of Ministers of Ukraine as an organ that will determine who to pay, who not to pay. The other one. We also agreed with you that in a separate article of the bill, namely, in the Final Positions, we are clearing the word "scale" of budgetary allocations to pay off the debt is determined by the Ukrainian Act on the National Budget of Ukraine for the year in question.
ParlaMint-UA_2013-09-19-m1.u9	Let me finish.
ParlaMint-UA_2013-09-19-m1.u10	We're just cleaning up the word "dimension." And here's the phrase: "Budget allocations for debt repayment are determined by the Ukrainian State Budget Act." It is meant that the amount of budget allocations needed to pay people’s expenses is needed. Third. In this bill, we leave one of the key norms, namely, whether or not a person has submitted a decision to the executive service or not, such a court decision is enforceable under any circumstances. Has his executive service been included in the register or not? That's three basic conditions. Under these conditions, we are able to: first, to determine how many requirements are met and people will start to receive the funds, secondly, we will require separately when we adopt the Ukrainian Law on State Budget to determine the necessary provisions for the execution of these court decisions. And finally, we ask you, Mr. Head, to vote in favour of this bill, a protocol commission to the committee of profile and a request to the government for the following content. "In the formation of Ukraine's State Budget 2014 Act, determine the necessary amount of budgetary allocations for the execution of judicial decisions." Under such circumstances, this Law may have a positive vote. Thank you for your attention.
ParlaMint-UA_2013-09-19-m1.u11	Thank you. The faction of the Party of the Regions, who will be speaking? Party of regions, who's going to perform? National Deputy Yuri Miroshnichenko
ParlaMint-UA_2013-09-19-m1.u12	Thank you, Vladimir Vasilovich. Dear colleagues, well, in fact, our Parliament is able to agree, and this is certainly the gain of our caedence. It was at the meeting of the Head of the Supreme Council that arrangements were reached to improve the text, where literally the two places where the amendments were made were absolutely justified. They are perceived by the Cabinet of Ministers as the author of this legislative initiative, supported by our factions, our colleagues. And that's why this bill is quite ready to be adopted in general. Remember that it is part of a package of our European laws and is actually promoting Ukraine to the European standards that we declare. So, honourable colleagues, I would like everyone to support this bill, taking into account the amendments that I hope will be made by the committee's representative. Thank you for your attention.
ParlaMint-UA_2013-09-19-m1.u13	Thank you. National Deputy Cibenko, faction of the Company of Ukraine.
ParlaMint-UA_2013-09-19-m1.u14	Thank you. The Communist faction, Peter Cibenko, head of the Ukrainian Veterans Organization. Dear colleagues, respected citizens of Ukraine! Let's think for a second about what we're voting about. We are voting for the adoption of a law on the enforcement of legislation. Without the adoption of this law, should laws not be enforced? This is the first time. It's different. In 2012, the Law on State Guarantees for the Enforcement of Judgments was passed. So where is the execution of the court's decisions, which stage did it come to? So I am absolutely, the faction is absolutely convinced that we lack the laws, we lack the funds, as they say so often today, we lack the desire to solve these problems, and we lack the political responsibility of the citizens of Ukraine. And these are veterans of war, and these are the Chernobyls, and these are children of war and millions of other citizens of poverty. So the faction of the Company of Ukraine will not vote for it.
ParlaMint-UA_2013-09-19-m1.u15	Thank you. I request a report from the Deputy Committee on the Rule of Law and Justice of Sphenov Dmitry Yuriovich. Please. How many minutes do you need? Five minutes. Please.
ParlaMint-UA_2013-09-19-m1.u16	The honourable chairman, honourable colleagues, proposes to adopt the law in the first reading edition, which was accepted by all factions on September 5, 2013, with two substantive rights and one editorial. As a result of the meeting, I was asked to read the text of the law for its final adoption in the second reading or to rule out differences in interpretation. Ukraine's law, a project, amending such laws of Ukraine. In the Ukrainian Act on Performing Conduct, part two of article three is presented in the next edition. "Decisions on the collection of funds from the public authorities of the state and local budgets or budgets of institutions shall be made by the authorities responsible for the treasury services of the budget." Part two of article 28 should be supplemented by the words: "and in the case of enforcement of decisions in the order established by the Ukrainian Law on State Guarantees for Enforcement of Decisions". Part of the first article 37 should be supplemented by paragraph 18 of the following content: "Send the executive documents to the central executive authority that implement the public policy in the field of treasury budgeting in the case envisaged in part three of article 4 of the Ukrainian Law on State Guarantees for the Enforcement of Decisions". In article 39, the second sentence of part one reads as follows: "The decision to stop executive conduct on the grounds provided for in article 37, paragraph 1.17, of the first part of this law shall be made not later than the following working day, when he is aware of such circumstances, but on the grounds provided for in article 37, paragraph 18, of this Act, on the date of dispatch of the executive document to the central executive authority that implements the public policy in the field of treasury management of budgetary resources." Add part two to paragraph seven of this. Paragraph 18 of the first part of article 37 of this Act: "Before the news from the Central Executive Authority is received, which implements public policy in the field of treasury services of budgeting for the recalculation of funds into the appropriate account of the public executive or the contractor. " In part four and seventh of article 45, the words "the State Treasury of Ukraine" should be replaced by the words "the central authority of the executive authority that ensures the formation of state and financial policy." In the Ukrainian Law on State Guarantees for Enforcement of Judgments, in article 4 of Part Three, after the words and figures of paragraph 2.4., add to point 9. In part 4 and 5, the words "the state executive service of Ukraine" are replaced by the words "the state executive agency." In part three and fourth of article five, replace the words "the State Executive Service of Ukraine" with the words "the State Executive Service." In chapter two of the End Positions, put the name in this line. Chapter two. After paragraph 2, complete this with a new paragraph. The executing documents of the court’s decision on the collection of funds or the court’s decision on the acquisition of legal force are submitted to the public service body within six months of the date of entry into force of the Act by the debtors as defined in the first article 2 of this Law. If the court’s decision on the collection of funds or the execution of their decisions by debtors, as defined in the first section of article 2 of this Law, has not been made within the time limit set by this paragraph, this is no reason to refuse the decision. Debt is settled in such an order. First, the court’s decision on pensions and social benefits, alimony, damage to damage caused by crime or administrative misconduct, disability or other harm to health, and the loss of a breadwinner is repaid. On the other hand, the debt of the court’s decision regarding labour relations is repaid. In the third instance, debts are repaid for all other court decisions. Budget allocations for debt repayment are determined by the National Budget Act of Ukraine for the corresponding year. In this regard, paragraph 3 is considered to be paragraph 4. In the text of the Ukrainian Act, "The State Treasury Office of Ukraine" replace in all differences the words "central executive authority implementing public policy in the field of treasury budget services" with the same difference. "The End of Positions." This law takes effect from the day of its publication. The Office of the Ministers of Ukraine shall ensure that, within one year of the date of entry into force of this law, the debt inventory and payment of the court’s decision, which shall be guaranteed by the State approved on the basis of the legal relationship which has taken place before the law becomes effective. Bring your legal acts within three months of the date of entry into force of this law.
ParlaMint-UA_2013-09-19-m1.u17	Are you done? Have a seat. I bet. Arsenius Yatsenuk's microphone.
ParlaMint-UA_2013-09-19-m1.u18	Mr. Dmitri! I ask you once again to confirm by protocol whether or not you have removed the Cabinet of Ministers of Ukraine from the bodies that determine the order of execution of decisions? That's the first one. And the second. Have we removed the limits on the amounts to be determined by the Ukrainian State Budget Act and left only budgetary allocations? So it'll be under protocol. Vladimir Vasilovich, I ask you, a protocol commission from the government to provide the necessary funds for the execution of decisions in the form of a state budget.
ParlaMint-UA_2013-09-19-m1.u19	Dear Arsenia Petrovich! For five minutes, I read the text of a law that, once again, in the established order of the Cabinet of Ministers of Ukraine, as we agreed to at the meeting, was excluded. We also added budget allocations, as we agreed. Thank you for your attention.
ParlaMint-UA_2013-09-19-m1.u20	And we're making a protocol decision. Instruct the profile committee in budgeting for the following year to ensure that court decisions are executed. Yeah? I'll bet on the vote, please. May I have your attention, please? We agreed, there was a proposal, a profile committee. Huh? A committee of profile and government. I am betting on the vote on the draft Act (2399) amending certain laws of Ukraine concerning the enforcement of judicial decisions for adoption as a whole. People's deputies, please vote. [[16:21:20]] For 325 Against 32, held – 0, not voted – 30. Decision taken. The factions, please. Region Party - 186, Fatherland - 59, Vitalia Klicka - 28, Freedom - 28, Ukraine - 0, non-fractional - 24. Ladies and gentlemen, the draft Law (No. 1076) on Social Television and Radio Broadcasting in Ukraine is under consideration. I invite the head of the Committee on Freedom of Speech and Information to report to Tomenko Mikol Volodymirovich. Please.
ParlaMint-UA_2013-09-19-m1.u21	Good afternoon! Dear colleagues, I'd like to speak with you immediately, and so that we can find a way out of the situation that has arisen. Today, we have no discussion in the session room that Ukraine needs social television and radio talk, because we closed this discussion by voting on the bill in the first reading. Instead, there is a discussion about what social television should be like. And we devoted two weeks to these discussions on the committee, resulting in 108 amendments and a second reading edition. As far as I'm concerned, our colleagues from the Party of Regions are sticking to the government version of social television. So we're standing in front of the fat guy next. Vladimir Vasilovich, we. It's me. To let Vladimir Vasilovich hear. If we go the way that the Party of Regions offers, it's going to look like this: out of those 108 lines somewhere in order of the 80s are going to be put on confirmation and failed, and I'm more human, well, I wouldn't want us to get rid of these things, because, well, we have to admit that we have three differences. The first difference is whether there should be commercial advertising on social television. I take that position that if we create social television, it should fundamentally be different from commercial television. Therefore, commercial advertising should not be out of our obligation to the European language community, nor should we be broadcasting the Olympics or other things. Our second separation is still with the government, but such constructive differences are about how to ensure financial independence. We think that a single line in the State Budget should be a fixed number, ideally defined. Well, experts say that at least this year, that's 0.02 percent. The government suggests that, well, when the budget is reviewed, you will be there to justify it. We don't think we're going to achieve independence here. The next position has to do with the reorganization. The government version, which today, if our amendments do not go through, suggests acceptance, does not say at all that it forms the basis of social television. Well, for example, the concept will change, and the Cabinet of Ministers will be able to create a social channel without Parliament on the basis of First National, and district television organizations will remain in state utility. We think it's wrong. If we create, the whole system has to be created. That's why we have two paths, Vladimir Vasilovich. First time. To find out the fact that there are some other differences that I've sincerely said about, and now don't torture the session room or go to 108 amendments and confirm them, because they won't be confirmed, they'll be passed on to the second reading and we'll sit down with the government to work, give us time. Or follow the path.
ParlaMint-UA_2013-09-19-m1.u22	Let me finish.
ParlaMint-UA_2013-09-19-m1.u23	Or follow the path of these 108 amendments. But since, well, we're being honest here in front of each other, I've talked to my colleagues in the Party of Regions, they're not going to confirm our amendments, which are different in concept and so after an hour of voting. We're going to go straight to the first reading. And the opposition factions in the first reading will not vote, because it's not a social television, so I propose, as a compromise, that we now vote in favour of the second and we continue the discussions on finding a compromise.
ParlaMint-UA_2013-09-19-m1.u24	Please, Hanna Herman, your offer.
ParlaMint-UA_2013-09-19-m1.u25	Dear friends, when the President presented the idea of creating public television in Ukraine, the President meant real public television. So some of the transformations of the bill, which were developed by the Humanities Council of the President of Ukraine, passed through the Kabmin, slightly distorted the bill. So we need to look for compromise, we need to get together again, we need to look at the amendments that the opposition is proposing, some of them have no grounds under them, and some of them need to listen, and we need to bring a bill to the Supreme Council that will not embarrass the President of Ukraine in his next presidential term.
ParlaMint-UA_2013-09-19-m1.u26	You support the proposal to make a decision. accept the second reading again today. Will you support me? Irina Heratschenko, please.
ParlaMint-UA_2013-09-19-m1.u27	Dear colleagues! Indeed, our faction similarly in this situation is asking us to vote in favour of re-reading so that, just as in the Law on the Enforcement of Judgments and on the Customs Tariff, we go to a joint decision of the Hall and vote on the law that is important to each faction. But we would like to address both the faction of the majority and you, dear speaker, with such a request. We agreed two weeks ago that the opposition voted in favour of the government's bill, and we're working together on it. We've made over 100 amendments, and none of them will be counted now. That's wrong, because we've put functions there that are very important, in fact, not only are we able to say about Michael, the financial independence of public speaking, but, above all, the ideological, world-viewed independence of public speaking. And we have a big difference about forming a supervisory board. Now, we really want to not just postpone this bill right now, but we do have an understanding that it's an independent language.
ParlaMint-UA_2013-09-19-m1.u28	Your offer? How do you propose to go?
ParlaMint-UA_2013-09-19-m1.u29	Another reading. Now go out on the second read again.
ParlaMint-UA_2013-09-19-m1.u30	Got it. I beg you, Princess, a minute.
ParlaMint-UA_2013-09-19-m1.u31	Thank you. Indeed, two things are of great importance in this bill: it is the independence of political social speech and financial independence. We have come to a common view of political independence, but financial independence is not yet fully regulated in this bill. I want to say that this bill is under the very serious supervision of experts from the Council of Europe who were present at the committee meeting, where our esteemed speaker was also present. And that's why it would be right, because it's a Euro-Integration Bill that really makes it irreprehensible so that we don't face criticism from our international partners. And we also support the second reading again. Thank you.
ParlaMint-UA_2013-09-19-m1.u32	People's Vice-Deputy Kyle, Freedom Union.
ParlaMint-UA_2013-09-19-m1.u33	Thank you. Alexy Kaida, faction of the All-Ukrainian Freedom Union. Dear Vladimir Vasilovich! Deputies! In fact, this bill is from the 'Fule List', which is a Euro-Integration Law. But we should consider that we should not vote thoughtlessly just because there are Euro-Integration laws. Indeed, this law does not provide for a moment of funding. There were proposals from 0.1 to 0.5 percent of the income part of the budget. But this needs to be discussed and approved. Moreover, the question of forming a public council is not defined. Whether it will be a formation of MP factions, as the MPs suggest, or as the Cabinet of Ministers suggests, it is one way to determine who will enter. We are clearly in favour of the adoption of this law and we now support the proposal to send it back to read again so that it will not be broken now. Our faction will vote for re-reading. Thank you.
ParlaMint-UA_2013-09-19-m1.u34	Dear National Deputies! I'm asking for your attention. The factions suggested that the law be adopted today in a second reading and that the time for consideration of the law be reduced by the committee. For the second reading again. And cut back on the committee. Understand? I'm making this proposal under Law 1076. Please vote. [[16:31:50]] For 342 Against-0, held-0, not a vote-46. Decision taken. The factions, please. Yes. Ladies and gentlemen, we are moving on to the issue of amending the Constitution of Ukraine. A draft Law amending article 98 of the Constitution of Ukraine (for the approvals of the Court of Auditors) (registration number 2049) is being introduced. According to the requirements of part seven of article 149 of the Rules, the matter is being considered in full discussion. And the word is given to the representative of the President of Ukraine, Yuri Miroshnichenko. Please.
ParlaMint-UA_2013-09-19-m1.u35	Thank you, Vladimir Vasilovich. Dear voters, dear colleagues! At the time of Parliament's consideration of the draft Ukrainian Law on Amendments to Article 98 of the Constitution of Ukraine, its basic position, relevance and need for amendments to the basic law proposed by the Head of State were discussed in very detail. The Constitutional Court of Ukraine concluded that the bill was in conformity with the requirements of articles 158 and 159 of the Constitution of Ukraine. The bill went through all the procedures provided for in the Constitution of Ukraine and in the Supreme Council of Ukraine. Therefore, it is assumed that there are now all legal grounds and political preconditions for parliament to support the legislative initiative of the President of Ukraine. Once again, I stress that making changes to the Constitution of Ukraine in part of extending the powers of the Court of Auditors fully meets: international standards in this area will allow real financial control over the implementation of the State budget, ensure the principle of publicity and transparency of the budgetary process. The adoption of the bill is also one of our State's obligations under the agenda of the daily Association of Ukraine with the EU. The President of Ukraine proposes to support amendments to article 98 of the Ukrainian Constitution. Dear colleagues, making these changes to the Constitution of Ukraine will first allow Parliament, and together with Parliament to have more information for the entire Ukrainian society and to have more control over public finances in Ukraine. I call on all of us to support these constitutional changes initiated by the President of Ukraine and aimed at the satisfaction and realization of the interests of Ukrainian citizens. Thank you for your attention.
ParlaMint-UA_2013-09-19-m1.u36	Is there a question for the manager? I won't. Have a seat. I would like to invite the head of the Committee of the Supreme Council of Ukraine on Legal Policy Valery Volodymyrovich Pisarenko.
ParlaMint-UA_2013-09-19-m1.u37	Honourable Vladimir Vasilovich, distinguished national MPs, the Supreme Council Committee on Legal Policy considered at its meeting on September 4, 2013, submitted by the President of Ukraine and designated an immediate draft law amending article 98 of the Constitution of Ukraine (registration number 2049) (January 18, 2013). The project proposes to amend article 98 of the Constitution of Ukraine as follows: Article 98, “Control on behalf of the Supreme Council of Ukraine on the arrival and use of funds to Ukraine’s state budget.” The other one. The organization of powers and order of operation of the Court of Auditors shall be determined by law. I note that in accordance with article 98 of the Constitution of Ukraine, Ukraine's National Budget is being monitored on behalf of the Supreme Council of Ukraine. Thus, the Basic Law of the State provides for the exercise of control by the Court of Auditors only through the use of the funds of the State budget of Ukraine, leaving out of control the income portion of the budget, which is an integral part of the budgetary process. At the same time, monitoring the implementation of the State budget for income and expenditure is a requirement of fundamental international instruments in the area of public finances control, such as the Lima Declaration of Guidelines for Auditing State Finances of 1977, the Mexican Declaration of Independence of the Financial Supervisors (2007). The Supreme Council of Ukraine decree of 16 April 2013 sent this bill to the Constitutional Court of Ukraine to reach a conclusion on its compliance with articles 157 and 158 of the Basic Law of Ukraine. According to the Constitutional Court of Ukraine (since 21 May 2013), the bill amending article 98 of the Constitution of Ukraine meets the requirements of articles 157 and 158 of the Constitution of Ukraine. By decree of the Supreme Council of Ukraine (June 20, 2013), the bill was previously approved by the majority of the Supreme Council of Ukraine. According to the requirements of article 155 of the Constitution, the draft Ukrainian Act "On Amendments to the Constitution of Ukraine" previously approved by a majority of the Supreme Council's constitutional composition is considered to be accepted if it was not voted in favour of the next session of the Supreme Council as two-thirds of the constitutional foundation of the Supreme Council of Ukraine. In view of what has been said, the Committee on Legal Policy has decided to recommend to the Supreme Council of Ukraine that it finally adopt the Act passed by the President of Ukraine and set out an urgent bill to amend article 98 of the Basic Law of Ukraine. Thank you for your attention. Please be supportive.
ParlaMint-UA_2013-09-19-m1.u38	Is there a question for the committee manager? No, sit down. I'm asking you to sign up for factions. Please, Freedom Union, national deputy Zelik.
ParlaMint-UA_2013-09-19-m1.u39	Please pass the word to Andrew Mohnik.
ParlaMint-UA_2013-09-19-m1.u40	Please, Andrew Mohnik speaking.
ParlaMint-UA_2013-09-19-m1.u41	Andrew Mohnik, faction of the All-Ukrainian Freedom Union. Our political power will support this bill because it is in line with the Lima Declaration of Basic Principles for Auditing State Finances, which is determined that a higher authority on State finances should have authority to monitor tax revenue, including access to tax declarations and tax documents. Before the first reading, we emphasized that, unfortunately, changes to the Constitution of Ukraine did not take fully into account the observed positions of the Lima Declaration, because there should also be careful control over public procurement and the purchase of services for public funds, the economic activity of commercial and industrial enterprises with public participation, the activities of organizations that receive subsidies. This is not included in the changes, but the increase in the powers of the Accounting Chamber in this case is positive. However, I would like to point out, Vladimir Vasilovich, before we consider this issue, since there was an agreement between the faction leaders you had there at the meeting, you should have announced that not only do you need to increase the authority of the Court of Auditors, but you also need to make sure that this body works within the framework of the Constitution. Today, there is a large part of the office that includes those performing duties that are not chosen according to the law in force, and in this regard the Court of Auditors ceases to be a body that operates within the framework of the current Constitution. Therefore, taking this into account, it is necessary to fill our own vacancies in the Accountancy so that it can work in accordance with existing legislation. So I ask you, Volodymyr Vasilovich, to announce that, actually, in the next plenary week, which is already in October, the question of the establishment of the Chambers of Auditors will be considered. Glory to Ukraine!
ParlaMint-UA_2013-09-19-m1.u42	Glory to Ukraine! The Fatherland faction, National Deputy Pazinjak.
ParlaMint-UA_2013-09-19-m1.u43	Please pass the word to Arsenius Petrovich Yatsenyuk.
ParlaMint-UA_2013-09-19-m1.u44	Please. Arsenius Yatsenuk, please.
ParlaMint-UA_2013-09-19-m1.u45	Dear Mr. Golovo, members of Parliament, rarely in this Parliamentary Chamber are we looking at amendments to the Basic Law of the Ukrainian State, namely, the Ukrainian Constitution. These changes, which Parliament is to adopt today, are aimed at controlling both the income and expenditure of Ukraine's State budget, are being carried out by an authority that is both appointed and supervised and accountable to the Supreme Council of Ukraine, namely, the Ukrainian Court of Auditors. This is also our commitment to our European partners to sign the agreement between Ukraine and the European Union in November of this year. Therefore, the adoption of the bill is the right thing to do, and this will enable the Supreme Council of Ukraine, which represents the interests of the people of Ukraine, to have a truly competent body independent of the Cabinet of Ministers, the Presidential Administration and other State bodies, and the executive authority, which has control functions both on the income and expenditure of the State budget of Ukraine, and which can and is obliged to tell Parliament and the people of Ukraine the truth about how the budget is used. Even though political pressure is being exerted on the House of Accounts, sometimes they are telling the truth. Consider the recent findings of the Court of Auditors. First, the finding of abuse, the financing of the Euro-2012 of 18 billion dollars. Second, the conclusion that two billion dollars have been stolen from the Ministry of Health, where money has been stolen from the sick and children. Third, the conclusion is that 1 billion dollars, which was aimed at acquiring so-called election surveillance cameras, was stolen and not used effectively. But the Court of Auditors should function as a constitutionally designated branch of such an Accountory. Dear Vladimir Vasilovich, I am addressing the leader of the faction of the Party of the Regions, Alexander Sergiyovich Efraemova. You and I have clearly defined, there are 14 positions out of which 13 are currently illegally exercising their powers in the Court of Auditors, and their terms of reference have expired. And at a meeting with representatives of all factions, it was decided that every faction in Parliament would have a representation of its member in the House of Accounts. We ask, Your Honor Vladimir Vasilovich, first to confirm these arrangements. Second, fulfill these arrangements. Third, get from the head of the Accounting Chamber the proposals we'll give him tomorrow about the personnel warehouse. And the fourth.
ParlaMint-UA_2013-09-19-m1.u46	Let me finish.
ParlaMint-UA_2013-09-19-m1.u47	The Constitution, which we will adopt, will make another statement that the organization of the activities of the Court of Auditors is governed by law. We are convinced that a new Law on the House of Accounts should be adopted. And it is in this law, including to establish the principle of representation in the Court of Auditors of all the political forces represented in Parliament. This will allow the opposition to perform a control function, and this will allow the Court of Auditors to be a more independent body than it is today. So, Mr. Head and Mr. Political Opponent Alexander Sergiyovich, please confirm these political arrangements. Thank you for your attention.
ParlaMint-UA_2013-09-19-m1.u48	Faction of the Party of the Regions, National Deputy Chechetov. Who are you handing over Polakov? People's deputy Polekov, please.
ParlaMint-UA_2013-09-19-m1.u49	Good afternoon, Reverend Vladimir Vasilovich! Dear National Deputies! State audits exist in virtually all countries of the world and have recently developed particularly actively. For example, the international organization of the highest audit bodies INTOSAI, established in 1953, now includes nearly 190 accounting chambers in the world. The accounting office of Ukraine is a full member of INTOSAI, and since March 2012, it has been in charge of the external auditor. However, Ukraine has become one of the few countries in which an independent financial control body is deprived of government budget control. The provisions of the Constitution on the exercise of control of the Court of Auditors over the comings and expenses of the State budget were contained in the 2004 Constitution, and after the constitutional reform had been abolished, the wording of article 98 “Fundaments of Control” had changed, and the Court of Auditors had been deprived of the authority to control the income of the State budget. Controlling the performance of the budget, both in terms of income and expenditure, is a requirement of fundamental and international instruments in the field of government finance control. In particular, the Lima Declaration, the guiding principles for auditing public finances, the Mexican Declaration, and independent financial controls. Consolidation by the Court of Auditors of the function of controlling the filling of the budget is one of the requirements for the signing of the Association Agreement with the European Union. It's a world practice to control the performance of the budget, both in terms of spending and in terms of revenue. The adoption of the amendments to article 98 of the Constitution will ensure that independent control, including parliamentary control, is exercised. to fully cover the entire budget process, to strengthen the role of the Ukrainian Court of Auditors as the sole external financial control body. Also, it can fully ensure that all Ukrainian citizens have the right to receive transparent and objective information about the budget process in Ukraine. I ask you, Your Honor, to support the decision of the Committee of Legal Policy and to adopt, finally as a bill submitted by the President of Ukraine, a bill amending article 98 of the Constitution of Ukraine. Thank you for your attention.
ParlaMint-UA_2013-09-19-m1.u50	Thank you. The Vitalia Klitschka faction, the National MP. Please.
ParlaMint-UA_2013-09-19-m1.u51	Dear Vladimir Vasilovich! Dear National Deputies! The most disturbing part of the impact is that it doesn't happen in the section of the House of Accounts, as in that saying, "Give your finger a bite off your hand." In fact, what are we saying? What can happen the most, and the worst can happen to businesses, private businesses? This is that the Court of Auditors, given the power to control the income portion of the state budget, will be turned over to the verification of the person who forms this income. Now let's think about who in our country is forming the income part of the budget? Is it shaped by state enterprises? No, it's not. In fact, most of the government budget is formed by the private sector. So the important thing is that, by consolidating these powers in the Constitution, we should not allow the law to extend the powers of inspection, the audits, so that the controllers of the Court of Auditors don't put themselves in the sheep's clothing that will come to you, to your business, and by carrying out the checks, they will carry out the checks on, for example, the tax. So they're going to be the next taxpayers. Even a faction of regions that will probably vote and support this bill, most of you are directly or indirectly business-related. And I think even the mandate of the Party of Regions does not give you immunity from these checks, from tax checks. Similarly, this will not give you a mandate from the checks of the Accounting Chamber. But what I want to point out is this: the opposition, when it comes into the House of Accounts according to the arrangements, that is, all the opposition factions, will not allow the House of Accounts to become the next punishing body. So all of our actions we're going to do is that the House of Accounts, it's going to stay within the limits of those powers that will only apply to state funds. Thank you for your attention.
ParlaMint-UA_2013-09-19-m1.u52	This was delivered by Natalia Agaphonov, a national deputy, because I did not introduce myself. Please, just a minute. And because of the factions, you should. You didn't sign up. Yes, a minute by the Rules, read the Rules. Peter Mikolaiovich.
ParlaMint-UA_2013-09-19-m1.u53	Ladies and gentlemen, first of all, I'd like you to hear our position and from what I'm about to teach you, you have to give an answer first. What are we looking at, the "I'm" part of the budget or the "I'm coming"? From what we have in our budget, we're looking at an income UI part of the budget. And here, as a result of this, I would like to suggest to you that we are voting for the Communists for the change, because that's what we've been doing, and the president has supported it, and we've been talking about this for a long time now that we need these changes. But do these changes work on their own today? No, it's not. Today, the Law on the Elimination and Amendments to the Constitution on the Elimination of Administrations and the Transfer fully under the control of the Communities and their elected councils and executive structures should be adopted. Secondly, this is the introduction of a concept to the Constitution that we have state ownership, and we need to adopt appropriate laws to do so. Thirdly, look at the basis for the World Trade Organization and the International Monetary Fund cooperation, because if we don't look at what kind of authority we don't give here, there's nothing there that's just gonna count for it to be.
ParlaMint-UA_2013-09-19-m1.u54	Two more minutes, Petra Mikolaiovich.
ParlaMint-UA_2013-09-19-m1.u55	Because how do we not propose today to make changes to the powers of the same Court of Auditors when we have a disgraceful condition signed with the World Trade Organization that destroys the Ukrainian producer and you all know it. So the point is to make decisions so that you can ask the same House of Auditors: What are we counting and are we counting with you? The same cooperation with the International Monetary Fund, if we meet all their conditions now, we just won't have a living segment of the economy tomorrow, no living production. Next, we'd like you and I to understand today that the responsible time has come for us, to the Supreme Council, to determine the vector of external economic integration. Unless we determine objectively, according to the Ukrainian people, with the support of the Ukrainian people, you are well aware that ten thousand businesses will be stopped tomorrow. I'm making this official because it's the experts who know and say: joining the European community -- signing an association -- that ten thousand enterprises will close, including your own companies here. Is that what you want? What, then, will be counted? What I said would be a profitable part of the budget, not a dowry Part of the budget. Again, I would like to point out that today I am helping a Ukrainian producer, and today I have to withdraw this shameful tax. Here, the initiators of the Ukrainian Economic Wonder in the early 1990s offered a value added tax, which is a gang tax. As long as we keep this tax, let's give real life to the economy. If we don't take it and replace it with a turnover tax. This will allow us to have a profitable part of the budget, not a profitable part of the budget. So on behalf of the faction, once again, I have to stress radically and look at what we're proposing to do today. Not only do we have to write down the phrase that we give authority to control the income part of the budget. You have to answer the question.
ParlaMint-UA_2013-09-19-m1.u56	Thank you. Dear National Deputies! Is there still a need to speak from the deputies? We were determined that he would act out of factions because we had previously approved more than 300 votes. May I? [[B in m in s a l in]] That's right, Easy says you can't break the procedure. People's deputies please sign up. Because then it will be questioned. Got it. I beg you, the Freedom Union, the Zelik People's Deputy.
ParlaMint-UA_2013-09-19-m1.u57	Please give the word to Alexander the Peace.
ParlaMint-UA_2013-09-19-m1.u58	Pass it on, please.
ParlaMint-UA_2013-09-19-m1.u59	Alexander Mirny, the All-Ukrainian Freedom Union. As I listened to the previous speaker, I did not understand the hysteria that had just been in the hall. I've been trying to analyze this whole thing to get my mind off it. I didn't find it. Because as a result of those 22 years of voting in the country, there is no logic here. It's just a catchy reflex: grab, grab, grab, grab. Grabbed, robbed, already the most sober heads say, "Stop! Let's at least figure out what's left." At this point people go out and say, "Oh, no, let's keep grabbing. Don't disturb us." And what are we going to tell our voters? What else hasn't been robbed? I'm telling you, it's all been looted. Let's keep at least the crumbs left over and build the country on their foundation. Because unfortunately, for many who are sitting far away from us, who represent the Far East of our country, we will go to Europe! And we must live by these rules! And we're going to make those people who don't understand what we have to count, we're going to have to count! We have to support what's happening now! We should remember that unfortunately or fortunately, the period of wild capitalism ends with the end of resources and money. Now we're going to make money and we're going to count. That's why we'll be supporting! And you, Vladimir Vasilovich, I'd like to ask you very much. If a person comes out and asks for a minute, give him a minute. Because three minutes to tell you that you're profitable. You don't even know how to put the emphasis right in those words. You get confused. And you give yourself three minutes to understand, to tell yourself what he's finally talking about! Thank you. Glory to Ukraine!
ParlaMint-UA_2013-09-19-m1.u60	National Deputy Yemereyev, please.
ParlaMint-UA_2013-09-19-m1.u61	Dear Head! Please pass the word to Láško Oleg.
ParlaMint-UA_2013-09-19-m1.u62	Please, Oleg Lazko National Deputy.
ParlaMint-UA_2013-09-19-m1.u63	Dear Vladimir Vasilovich! Dear colleagues! First of all, thank you for listening to my opinion. For what is the basis for the Constitutional Court’s cancellation of the 2004 polytreform? For reasons of failure to follow procedure when considering making changes to the Constitution. If today you would deprive the MPs of the opportunity to discuss this issue, that would be the basis, again, for a time, to accept unconstitutional changes that we will be voting for today. And now essentially the bill that we're considering. In view of the citizens of Ukraine. It is proposed that amendments be made to the Constitution, that additional powers be given to the Court of Auditors to control not only the expenditure of the State budget, but also the revenue of the State budget. I think the offer is absolutely right. And the Court of Auditors has to control both the revenue and the expenditure of the state budget. But the question. Who listens to the conclusions of the Court of Auditors? You and I get these conclusions regularly. And the Court of Auditors is working more or less professionally, and it points to the shortcomings of the billions of thefts that occur in the state budget, on tenders where tender procedures are not available, on the fact that only those who are close to the authorities have the opportunity to steal, avoiding all tender procedures. And who responds to that, whether it's the D.A.'s office or the police or the D.A.'s office? No, it's not. They're putting all these reports of the Court of Auditors under a dress in a drawer, and that's the end of it. That is, the problem is that in Ukraine there is no law enforcement system, that the prosecutor's office, instead of handling criminal cases, instead of drawing on the responsibility of those who steal the state budget, is that they cover these criminals. Why? Because these criminals sit in power, these criminals sit in government, these criminals sit in government, and they do, they steal government budgets. And most importantly, what some colleagues here have been talking about, which can see in the root, is the income question where they take the income that they control. Only a radical change in economic policy in the state will allow the revenue of the state budget to be earned, and the Court of Auditors will be able to control it accordingly. And when we make radical changes in the prosecutor's office, in the police, in the courts, then those who steal the budget will be responsible. That is, the country needs a radical change of power! Get the Party of Regions out of power! Get away from the government of Azarov, who is a mare, the greatest thief of all governments in history, not only of the Ukrainian state, but in the history of the modern world, of modern civilization! That's the only way we can get order in the country. Get off the Party of Regions!
ParlaMint-UA_2013-09-19-m1.u64	Freedom Union, National MP Hanenko.
ParlaMint-UA_2013-09-19-m1.u65	Please give the floor to Deputy Marcinkov.
ParlaMint-UA_2013-09-19-m1.u66	Deputy Marcinkov, please.
ParlaMint-UA_2013-09-19-m1.u67	Ruslan Marcinkov, All-Ukrainian Freedom Union. Well, actually, today, the Supreme Council and the local self-government, where opposition factions are represented, are the only bodies that are uncontrollable to the active Party of Regions and their satellites, the Lenin Party. So today the Freedoms faction will support and increase the authorization of the House of Accounts. Because we think that today the House of Accounts is offering the maximum number of proposals for the dissipation of funds in our country. Sadly, though, even the conclusions published by the Court of Auditors are not taken into account by the Public Prosecutor’s Office, the law enforcement authorities, and there are no matters that are currently established as a summary of the findings of the Court of Auditors. In particular, I would like to say that today the Lenin Party of Ukraine, which is here today, is defending the rights of workers, the rights of workers, and is actually voting with the Party of Regions in order for today's public authorities, such as the Prosecutor's Office, to introduce bills and many other cases that are destroying Ukrainians and Ukrainian ideas today. Therefore, the faction of the All-Ukrainian Freedom Union believes that today we must support this bill and actively work to ensure that the Party of the Regions, along with its satellites, does not steal millions of money, including on Ukrainian customs. So let's support this law together and vote together. Glory to Ukraine!
ParlaMint-UA_2013-09-19-m1.u68	People's MP Rosenko, Vitalia Calla.
ParlaMint-UA_2013-09-19-m1.u69	Please pass the word to Sergey Kaplin.
ParlaMint-UA_2013-09-19-m1.u70	Please, Sergey Kaplin from the rostrum.
ParlaMint-UA_2013-09-19-m1.u71	My voters called me here while a colleague of mine spoke and asked me to say that this House of Auditors has been working for 20 years on the principle: "Don't count, they're still stealing the Party of Regions, the President and all the parties that make up this majority." The account room gets, we support, and it gets new powers. But it's very important that it's not just another piece of paper and new drafts that don't change the life of an ordinary Ukrainian. We must work today to ensure that the opposition is truly empowered to control the work of the Court of Auditors. Just think, every year, the House of Accounts finds an additional 2-3 billion abuses. In 2008, 14 billion, in 2010 20 billion, in 2011 more, more and more. And the right thing to say to the speakers is that the results of these studies just fall under the skirt. And we're just observing and noticing the fact that nothing is done in the direction of punishing the guilty in this problem. Here one of my colleagues was talking about what's called a criminal tax -- a value added tax. And let's think about who is the father and author of this, all the bad taxes, and who gave birth in this room of this author, Mikola Janović Azarov. From whose easy hand we launched into Ukrainian politics, into the Ukrainian government a man who commits genocide against ordinary people, owed them billions of money that they try to recover through the courts. And even if the opposition supports a bill that allows people, simple, poor people to be condemned to power, in criminal power, in copies, and I'm talking now about children of war, about the Chernobyls, about the Afghans, about the disabled, one of the political forces is simply not voting for this bill. And you saw who gave zero votes for supporting the bill that we just passed. I mean, once again, a very important bill, a very radical, normal step, but it needs to end with results, not always. No matter how much my voters say, "Don't count, don't count, you'll get it." - Go ahead, Mr. Simonenko.
ParlaMint-UA_2013-09-19-m1.u72	Ladies and gentlemen, when will we learn and know that this is the higher legislature? What does it do? God’s Word, a replica. Please.
ParlaMint-UA_2013-09-19-m1.u73	Dear colleagues, first of all, I offer to apologize to all of us in front of the people who are listening to the broadcast right now. Because what Mr. Capplin allows is already crossing every line. And I would very much like to ask your colleagues from the strike party, please do your job with your comrade. And I would also like to say that we have to think about introducing an education price, because if people with undergraduate education are allowed to do this from the rostrum, it's also bad. And I would also like to say that if you already consider yourself an MP, please study the new Ukrainian history. The author of the value added tax in Ukraine is Mr. Terjehochin and Mr. Pinzenik, and Mr. Azarov was gone at all. [[B in m in s a l in]] And there's more. Now it's a very good situation when we -- both opposition and power -- we find a common approach to more important issues.
ParlaMint-UA_2013-09-19-m1.u74	Thank you. The last speaking out of the Party of Regions. Who's speaking? People's Parrask deputy, who's the word?
ParlaMint-UA_2013-09-19-m1.u75	Please pass the word to Popescu.
ParlaMint-UA_2013-09-19-m1.u76	Who should I tell? Ivan Popescu.
ParlaMint-UA_2013-09-19-m1.u77	Thank you, Vladimir Vasilovich. Dear colleagues, Reverend Vladimir Vasilovich, you did the right thing by following the full procedure so that no one could ask questions about the legitimacy of today's decision. That's the first one. It's different. Dear colleagues, we all know what these changes are about today. This is the provision of additional powers to the Court of Auditors to control the implementation of the State budget. But once changes to the Constitution are made, these norms will still need to be developed in the organic law on the Court of Auditors. And today we're voting for changes to the Constitution, then there's going to be another second reading when we have to have two thirds of the constitutional composition. And as for the specific changes to the Court of Auditors Act, it will be later. And another thing, I'm asking you not to do populism today, and not to make any nonsense out of the Supreme Council's rostrum, because nonsense can be said, but not in a solemn tone and not in the Supreme Council's rostrum. So I propose to go to the vote, and the points that apply to the Court of Auditors, the law itself, we will adopt when we discuss this law. Thank you for your attention. A party of regions will be in favor.
ParlaMint-UA_2013-09-19-m1.u78	Thank you. The last speaker is National MP Simonenko. Please.
ParlaMint-UA_2013-09-19-m1.u79	Dear colleagues, to confirm what I said in my speech earlier, I would like to give some examples. And before I introduce them to you, I want to remind you again for those who spoke from this rostrum. The author of the added value tax is a representative of the Chicago Boys, Pinzenik, a member of the Impact Group. He's also the author, along with Kuchma, of trust companies that have been robbed of billions of people right here. He is the author of the economic wonder of the Ukrainian and should be pleased with the factions of impact, which have such a dignity in the legislative body of Ukraine. And now, relatively, respectable comrades, what should we do? I am addressing you as my colleagues, and I hope that we will still be guided by the minds and interests of Ukraine and the Ukrainian people. Look what's happening right now. The Dnipropetrov factory. Is it not practically standing? 10,000 worked, 3,000 left, the last month and one and a half thousand working citizens received a notice of reduction. It's only because the policy of European integration has changed. Zaporizki has cut production by 50 percent in the last two months, people are being dumped on the street. Next. This year’s hard pipe factory reduced production volume by 22 percent. In the last two months, the North London Nitrogen has been stopped. If I'm gonna lie, you tell me. North London's Nitrogen is stopped. For two years, the Lysican Oil Processing Plant, like the other five factories, has been located. "61 commies" factory in Santa Claus has been standing for three years because this policy is further away, so to speak, from cooperation with the Russian Federation and has led to the closure of production, destruction of scientific base, industry and so forth. That's why, dear fellows, I appeal again and again to all those who have come here with the best intentions to work for the interests of Ukraine and for the future. Today, it must be acknowledged that this policy of economic reform cannot continue to be pursued, it must be stopped immediately, radically reviewed all the approaches that are unfortunately being taken in Ukraine today in order for this to happen and work for the future. I can give you a lot of other examples today, so that you and I can come to the conclusion that this position is being reviewed, but once again, I want to state when we are being charged here with not voting for the law, the execution of court decisions. The key phrase in this law is that the state in the same government, and you've given them your consent, will only finance the implementation of decisions in terms of the amounts that are included in the government budget. And all these years there's no money involved and no one's gonna get it, and you want that lie to get people confused again today. So, Your Honor, once again I'm speaking on behalf of the faction, I need a radical review.
ParlaMint-UA_2013-09-19-m1.u80	Dear National Deputies! Replica, tomorrow we'll be freer, and tomorrow we'll talk to each other. Reporters, are there closing words or not? Reporters, are there closing words? None. I want to announce, wait, I want to announce that, really, at my meeting in my office, we agreed that with the appointed members of the Chambers of Auditors. Come on, I'll give you my word, we'll make a decision, I'll give you a minute. Why are we gonna trade here? With the appointment of the members of the Court of Auditors, all the factions that we have in Parliament will be represented in the formation of the staff. Do you have a deal? It's a deal. And now I'm putting it to a vote. [[B in m in s a l in]] Let's vote, and I'll give you a line. Please prepare for the vote. I'll give it to you, I told you accordingly. [[B in m in s a l in]] I'll give you a minute, does it have anything to do with this? Excuse me, who? Pinzenic. One minute, Pinzenic.
ParlaMint-UA_2013-09-19-m1.u81	Dear National Deputies! Dear Vladimir Vasilovich! I knew that some of our colleagues had economic problems, and I've never had economic discussions with them. But it turns out they have history problems because they don't know where the added value tax was invented. And it was invented in 1954 in France. But they have problems and with memory because they do not remember who signed those laws. I don't want to have a discussion with people who don't have either first or second or third.
ParlaMint-UA_2013-09-19-m1.u82	Thank you. Shall we vote? In accordance with part eight of article 149, I am voting on a proposal for the adoption of the entire bill (registration number 2049) amending article 98 of the Constitution of Ukraine (for the approval of the Court of Auditors). Understand? People's deputies, please vote. [[17:16:36]] For 380 Against 0, held back, 0 didn't vote 18. Only 398. Decision taken. Factions please: Region Party 192, Fatherland 71, Vitaly Klicka 32, Freedom 28, Company 30, non-fractional 27. Ladies and gentlemen, we have agreed on the Conciliation Council, we have another Euro-Inclusion Law. It's very important. That's why I'm bringing to your consideration draft Law No. 2,600 on the Reform of Printed Media. Rereading the first reading. We've been looking into it. How will we view it? I'd like to make a brief vote. [[B in m in s a l in]] Don't yell or you won't hear what we're voting for. Vote please! [[17:17:51]] For 202 Against 67, held – 9, not 118. Decision taken. Head of the Committee on Freedom of Speech and Information by Mikola Volodymyrovich Tomenko Please.
ParlaMint-UA_2013-09-19-m1.u83	Dear colleagues, I report that your commission has been carried out, has been taken away by the wisest, wisest proposals of the national MPs: Yurya Miroshnicka, Alexander Abdullina, Mikoli Bagrajeva, Helen Bondarenko, Mikli Knieżicka, Stephen Kurpil, Rustam Raupov, Tomenka I do not call Irina Gerashchenko, and prepare a draft for the first reading. In fact, all the positions that led to the discussions in the process of dissipation have been discussed. Today, we tend to feel that we are close to going to the final draft of the bill. Today, there are nuances in this discussion. The government proposes to initiate a process of dissuasion by voluntary consent of printed media ready to withdraw from the establishment of district administrations, district councils, and for a given period of three years. Our position is that we have been talking for so long about dispossessing, enough of the annual deadline for this voluntary dissipation. If the law becomes effective on 1 January 2014, then by 1 January 2014 it is a voluntary process of dissipation, and from 2015 until 2017 it is mandatory. There are nuances on how to implement this procedure: whether traditionally, as privatization through the State Property Fund, or reform under the control of the State Committee on Television and Radio. In any case, my friends, the existence of some small differences gives us reason for the committee to ask you to now vote on the basis of the bill and, by shortening the procedure, allow us to prepare it for the second reading. And we're going to prepare it, and in general we're going to vote, and we're going to start the dissipation procedure. Report completed.
ParlaMint-UA_2013-09-19-m1.u84	Thank you. Is it? No discussion, we've been looking into it. [[B in m in s a l in]] May I have your attention, people's deputies? I'm voting on the draft Law (2600) on the Reform of Printed Media, for adoption as a basis. People's deputies, please vote. [[17:20:50]] For 333 Against - 0, held – 29, not voted – 33. Decision taken. The factions. A draft Act (number 0878) is under consideration to amend the Ukrainian Act on Accounting and Financial Reporting in Ukraine (as regards original documents). It's a second reading. I invite you to report to the First Vice-President of the Committee on Economic Policy, Sergio Fedorovich. Please. Report. Should I vote? Ladies and gentlemen, do you have any objection to the adoption of the law that we have considered reforming the print media so that we can entrust the committee with a reduced program to prepare for the second reading? You won't? It's a deal. Please.
ParlaMint-UA_2013-09-19-m1.u85	Dear colleagues! Ladies and gentlemen! Dear Vladimir Vasilovich! Ukraine's draft law amending the Ukrainian Law on Accounting and Financial Reporting in Ukraine was submitted by the Cabinet of Ministers of Ukraine and adopted as a basis by the Supreme Council of Ukraine on 5 July 2012. The main purpose of the bill is to improve accounting and financial reporting in Ukraine. The second reading came with one proposal: the term of validity of the law that is included. The Committee on Economic Policy at its meeting on 5 June 2013 considered the draft Ukrainian law on amending the Ukrainian Law on Accounting and Financial Reporting in Ukraine, prepared for the second reading, and decided to recommend it to the Supreme Council of Ukraine in its second reading and in its entirety. The chief legal office of the Supreme Council of Ukraine called for a bill without notice. Please be supportive.
ParlaMint-UA_2013-09-19-m1.u86	There are no comments. I'll bet you a vote. [[B in m in s a l in]] Please, National Deputy Xenius Leapina.
ParlaMint-UA_2013-09-19-m1.u87	Thank you. The Fatherland faction, the Party for Ukraine!"the city of Kiev. Dear colleagues! I want to point out that we've been on the committee for a very long time, two years, and we didn't know what to do with this little one and nobody needed a bill. I just want to pay attention. It's made up of three lines. All three are making the Accounting and Financial Reporting Act worse. First line. Instead of an energy standard that national standards cannot contradict international standards, the authorities are somehow proposing a volatile norm that they are prepared to take into account international ones. In other words, they may contradict. Second rule. It is suggested that additional authorizations be given to Minfin and Nazbank to install, think about, form, and order the original accounting documents. This is at a time when the law has already determined the necessary requisitions of the original accounting documents! It was for that purpose that the law was written so as not to be passed on.
ParlaMint-UA_2013-09-19-m1.u88	Thank you, finish.
ParlaMint-UA_2013-09-19-m1.u89	Thank you. The approval will only lead to one. That we're going to spend another billion a year on no one's need to buy forms for accounting. Therefore, dear colleagues, we do not support this bill.
ParlaMint-UA_2013-09-19-m1.u90	Thank you. I'm voting on the committee's proposal to vote on draft Law No. 0878. Dear National Deputies! I would like to draw attention to 0878 amendments to the Ukrainian Law on Accounting and Financial Reporting in Ukraine. For adoption in the second reading and in general. I'd like to make up my mind. Vote. [[17:26:01]] For 222 Against-92, held-92, not voted-63. The decision is not taken. The factions. Go, don't shake your hands, go, go. I'm not coming back. We have to vote. Ladies and gentlemen, there is an offer to return to the committee for a second reading. May I put it to a vote? I'll bet you a vote, go back to the second reading of Law 0878. Please vote. Please vote. [[17:27:04]] For 237 Against 26, held – 16, not voted – 107. Decision taken. A draft Law amending Article 287 of the Customs Code of Ukraine (for the creation and operation of industrial parks) (second reading) is under consideration. Reported to the head of the Committee on Tax and Customs Policy, Vitaly Yuriovich Homutinnik. Attention, national deputies, we need to work.
ParlaMint-UA_2013-09-19-m1.u91	Thank you. Honourable Volodymira Vasilovich, honourable colleagues, may I remind you that the purpose of the bill of amendments to article 287 of the Ukrainian Customs Code is to improve the import mechanism in the customs territory of Ukraine of equipment, equipment and materials for the implementation of investment projects for the creation of industrial parks and for the implementation of investment projects within industrial parks. The second reading came up with six suggestions, all taken into account. The committee has drafted the bill in conjunction with the Cabinet of Ministers and is ready to vote in the second reading and in general. Thank you.
ParlaMint-UA_2013-09-19-m1.u92	I'm asking the people's deputies, Rosenko. Let's go see him.
ParlaMint-UA_2013-09-19-m1.u93	The Vitalia Klitschka faction, Paul Rosenko. We want to testify to our position on this bill. Because he was approved in the first reading, so - called, at an illegal meeting of the Supreme Council of Ukraine, which took place on Banking. Therefore, the faction will not participate in the vote, for we have repeatedly repeated that we do not recognize those congregations of Ukrainian national deputies that took place on April 4th during the session of the Supreme Council of Ukraine. That's why the Vitalia Klitschka faction emphasizes once again that no document that was approved there will be supported by the members of our faction.
ParlaMint-UA_2013-09-19-m1.u94	Please, the People's Deputies of Kyde.
ParlaMint-UA_2013-09-19-m1.u95	Thank you, Vladimir Vasilovich. Alexy Kaida, faction of the All-Ukrainian Freedom Union. Our faction similarly states that we will not vote in favour of this bill, which was passed in secret in the Bank in violation of all the requirements of the Rules, the Constitution, the legislation of Ukraine. And we're testifying that this is a vote by drawing a card and a demonstration for journalists that we just ignore, we don't recognize these bills that were voted in the Bank. Thank you.
ParlaMint-UA_2013-09-19-m1.u96	There's no comment, I'll put it to a vote. I'm asking the MPs not to run around the hall, work. There will be no vote. I am voting on the draft Law (2084) amending Article 287 of the Customs Code of Ukraine (for the creation and functioning of industrial parks) for adoption in the second reading and in general. People's deputies, please vote. [[17:31:13]] For 236 Against 13, held – 5, not voted – 69. Decision taken. The factions. A draft Act (0909) amending the Ukrainian Law on Military Duty and Military Service (on military duty) is under consideration (second reading0. Reported to the head of the National Security and Defence Committee, Alexander Ivanovich Kuzmuk. Please.
ParlaMint-UA_2013-09-19-m1.u97	Dear Vladimir Vasilovich, highly worthy colleagues! The National Security and Defence Committee expresses its sincere appreciation for the proposals made in preparing the bill for second reading. I want you to know that all 12 proposals are taken into account and entered into the draft Law. As well as all the comments made by expert and legal authorities that have been removed. The bill provides for a clarification of the beginning of the military service for citizens appointed for military service, the establishment of a deadline for arrival at the district military commission. A list of the reasons why military personnel and members of the military force who are engaged in military service may be released from military service in the short term. The definition at the legislative level of the duration of military service and the grounds for exemption from military service. Clarification of the categories of Ukrainian citizens who are subject to military billing, removal and expulsion in the regional military commissions. The bill is unanimously supported by all members of the committee. I ask the Supreme Council to accept this bill as a law. Thank you for your attention.
ParlaMint-UA_2013-09-19-m1.u98	There is no record of the Law. That's why I'm betting on the vote. May I have the attention of the people's deputies? I am voting on the draft Act (No. 0909) amending the Law on Military Duty and Military Service of Ukraine (for the fulfilment of the military obligation to adopt the second reading and in general). Please vote. [[17:34:15]] For 348 Against-0, holding-1, not voting-31. Decision taken. A draft Act (No. 0973) is under consideration to amend certain laws of Ukraine (for payment to the court). Second reading. I invite the head of the Committee on Tax and Customs Policy, Vitaly Yuriovich Hometicnik. Please report.
ParlaMint-UA_2013-09-19-m1.u99	Dear colleagues, Reverend Vladimir Vasilovich! The Committee considered a bill prepared for second reading, a judicial assembly, and a Code on Administrative Violations, which introduces new court-martial rates in administrative infringement cases, and raises separate court-martial rates to be applied to court for court-martial applications provided for in procedural law. The second reading included 7 suggestions, of which 5 were taken into account, 2 was rejected. At the same time, when considering the committee in the process of discussing the bill, the Committee concluded that the proposed bill needed further elaboration with the government. In particular, with regard to the organization of regulations granting benefits to public authorities regarding the payment of court fees, as well as part of the reduction of individual court fees. Today, there are about 10 bills on the committee. Half of which are offered benefits, or perhaps most of them to some authorities, and some of the bills say that there should be a moratorium on benefits in general. And today, there is no single position in the government and the President's Administration, which should be a policy to pay to the court and whether there is a need to give everyone benefits, whether the Law should really be one for all. So we can go, of course, as amended, and we have to go to the repairs. But the final decision of the committee that was set out to re-read the bill and to re-edit it more comprehensively with the government. Thank you.
ParlaMint-UA_2013-09-19-m1.u100	Thank you. You're making a motion to return the law to the committee for re-reading. Yeah? Or what do you suggest?
ParlaMint-UA_2013-09-19-m1.u101	This is the position of the committee, but Parliament can vote in general.
ParlaMint-UA_2013-09-19-m1.u102	Ladies and gentlemen, there is no record of this law. I therefore put to the vote the draft Law (0973) amending some of the Ukrainian legislative acts on the payment of court fees for adoption on second reading and in general. People's deputies, please vote. [[17:38:16]] For 233 Decision taken. Against 90, held – 4, not voted – 55. The factions. I'm continuing my session for 15 minutes today. Dear National Deputies! Come on, this is where a number of deputies came in, here comes Stojko Ivan, to make a few decisions, because the dates go by, and the deputies are waiting. So let me read it to you without discussion and vote, okay? It's a deal. Here we go. A draft decree marking the 75th anniversary of the formation of the Kyrovograd region. Can I put a ruling to the vote? I bet. I'm betting on the vote to take a decision (number 2345a) to mark the 75th anniversary of the creation of the Kirovograd area as a basis and as a whole. Please vote. [[17:41:13]] For 278 Against - 1, held - 0, unvoted - 94. Decision taken. The factions. I will put to the vote to order immediately the day and the decree, the order of the day and the determination, and everything will be fine. A draft Order (2353a) is under consideration to mark the 900th anniversary of the establishment of the village of Klevn district for inclusion in the agenda and for adoption as a basis, as a whole. I'll bet you a vote. Please vote. [[17:42:33]] For 322 Against - 0, held - 0, did not vote - 59. Decision taken. I'm voting on the draft Order (3271) to honor the military feats of the Red Army soldiers during the push of the Dnipro River in the Dnipropetrovsk district for inclusion in the daily order and to accept as a basis and as a whole. People's deputies, please vote. I ask you to vote because others won't vote. Vote. [[17:43:20]] For 238. Against 0, held – 1, not a vote – 129. The factions. Yeah, give me the town of the Chertkows. Now, honourable national MPs! Dear National Deputies! Ladies and gentlemen, may I have your attention? I'm voting on the draft Order on the Placing of the City of Chortkov in the Ternopil region into the category of cities of regional importance for inclusion in the agenda. Oh, it's in the daytime! For adoption as a basis and as a whole. Please, Alexander Sergiyovich, support and vote for everyone. Please vote. [[5:44:48]] For 313 Against 0, held 0, didn't vote 67. Decision taken. The factions. Ladies and gentlemen, I'm asking for the Angelini Pasha, let's all vote together. [[B in m in s a l in]] That's not how it works! That's not how it works! I'm voting on a draft decree marking 100 years from the birth of twice the Hero of Social Work, the organizer of the stohani movement in the agriculture of Pasha Angelina for adoption as a basis and as a whole. Please be supportive. Please vote. I beg your pardon, Your Honor! [[17:45:46.]] For 237 Against – 1, held – 7, did not vote 119. Decision taken. There's another verdict, draft decree. Listen! I'm betting on the vote on the draft Order (number 2196a) marking the 800th anniversary of the establishment of the village of Onut Zastavnovni district of Cherniewec region for adoption. for inclusion in the agenda and for adoption as a basis and as a whole. Vote. Please vote. [[17:46:43]] The decision is not taken. For 206 Against - 6, held – 17, not voted – 129. The decision is not taken. The factions. Please turn on the microphone. We have two decrees left.
ParlaMint-UA_2013-09-19-m1.u103	Dear Volodymyr Vasilovich, distinguished colleagues of the national MPs! Sadly, from today’s map of Ukraine hundreds of villages have disappeared. And if we have villages that exist by 800, by 900 years, thank God that they exist. And we need to celebrate and support such villages, please, because we will soon experience that there will be no villages in Ukraine at all. And that's why I'm going to my fellow MPs, and I'm going back to voting, and I'm going to support the 800-year founding of the village. And God let every village in Ukraine exist for thousands of years, and not like today, people are dying, people are going out, villages are disappearing, and the fact that the Supreme Council does not now support the village is a disgrace! We need to support both the village and the city. Let's go back.
ParlaMint-UA_2013-09-19-m1.u104	Let's support the Lachka People's Deputy and get back to ruling 2196a. Please vote in favour of the return to consideration. Please vote. [[17:48:33]] For 327 Against - 1, held - 0, not voted - 46. Decision taken. Now I'm voting on the draft Order (2196a) to mark the 800th anniversary of the establishment of the village of Onut Zastavanni district of Cherniewice for adoption as a whole. People's deputies, please vote. [[17:49:15.]] For 332 Against - 1, held - 0, did not vote - 41. Decision taken. The factions. There's no motive. Kayda, please, just a minute.
ParlaMint-UA_2013-09-19-m1.u105	Thank you. Thank you, Vladimir Vasilovich. Alexy Kaida, faction of the All-Ukrainian Freedom Union. Dear Vladimir Vasilovich, I think if we have done such a constructive job, let's go back to yesterday's bills 2792, 2922, 2768, 2201 -- bills that establish a moratorium on the closure of non-school education institutions, set up a moratorium on the closure of public educational institutions of state and municipal property, a moratorium on the reorganisation of health institutions. And we're all going to vote in favour of them. If we put our voices in the agenda, let's put these bills in order, and we'll put them to a friendly vote. Thank you. Glory to Ukraine!
ParlaMint-UA_2013-09-19-m1.u106	Ladies and gentlemen, we are considering the Law of Ukraine (No. 2363-1) on the amendment to the section "The Final Position" of the Ukrainian Law "On the Regulation of Urban Activities" on the cessation of the ban on land collection" with proposals by the President of Ukraine since 22.02.2013. Reported by the Minister for Regional Development, Construction and Housing of Hennaday Pavlovich Temnik. Please.
ParlaMint-UA_2013-09-19-m1.u107	Dear Vladimir Vasilovich! Dear National Deputies! The President of Ukraine made a comment to the Ukrainian Act on Amendments to Chapter V of the Final Position of the Ukrainian Law on the Regulation of Urban Activities on the Stopping of the Ban on Landslides. The president of Ukraine believes that this law cannot be signed for such reasons. The law deals positively with the possibility of land allocations for urban needs and the issuance of construction conditions and restrictions on the absence of a detailed plan. Yeah. for all the population in Ukraine, except for the city of Kiev. Such an approach is not supported because it violates the constitutional requirements for equality before the law, avoiding restrictions on residence. It will have a negative impact on the economic development of the city. In particular, housing, engineering, transport and social infrastructure. Difficulties in the performance of capital functions, including the creation of proper conditions for the work of the authorities and the implementation of international agreements. It will make Ukraine's position worse in the World Bank's World Business Rating. And that's also going to have a negative impact on investment as a whole. The Law does not allow for the construction of those who have already received the land by 1 January of this year. Because the local authorities cannot issue construction conditions and restrictions on construction. The law limits the rights of citizens and legal persons in the field of land relations and urban activities. The President of Ukraine proposes in paragraph 3 of Subparagraph 1 and in paragraph 2 of the second subparagraph of the second law, which is under consideration, that the word “except the city of Kiev” be deleted. In general, this law is very important for the building industry. He's expected in every region. In view of the above, he proposes to take into account the proposals made by the President of Ukraine and to adopt the law as a whole. Please be supportive. Thank you.
ParlaMint-UA_2013-09-19-m1.u108	Thank you, sit down. I ask the head of the Committee on Construction, Construction, Housing and Utilities and Regional Policy of Spiridon Pavlovic Kilinkarov. Please.
ParlaMint-UA_2013-09-19-m1.u109	Mr. Volodymira Vasilovich, honourable colleagues, the Committee has considered and taken fully into account the proposals made by the President of Ukraine to the Act, which has allowed its content to be brought into conformity with the Constitution of Ukraine. The main scientific and expert office also considers the proposals of the President of Ukraine to be sufficiently well-founded and worthy of the support of the Supreme Council of Ukraine. The bill is accepted without notice by the Chief Legal Authority. Please support the Act on Amendments to Chapter 5 of the Final Provisions of the Ukrainian Law on the Regulation of Urban Activities to Stop the Ban on Land Disposal (new edition). Thank you.
ParlaMint-UA_2013-09-19-m1.u110	Ladies and gentlemen, the President's proposals are taken into account. I'll bet you a vote. Please sign up from factions per minute. Please, the faction of the Company of Ukraine, the People's Deputy of Kudra. None. The Fatherland faction, National Deputy Odarchenko.
ParlaMint-UA_2013-09-19-m1.u111	Dear colleagues, what are we talking about? The legislation was absolutely clear that construction documentation must be processed in Kiev, including by 2013. So the master plans, the detailed plans for the building. And under it, a party of authorities, the Party of Regions, canceled public debates on the construction of Kiev. I'm asking you to pay attention to what's going on, and today they want this bill to continue the totally illegal, incorrect, irresponsible city of Kiev. They want to allow the construction of green areas, parks, as is happening today. Dear friends, I want to remind you that 350 votes voted in favour of this amendment. And I have a very big request to the Communist faction not to support this illegal building of Kiev. Because today the fate of Kiev depends on them.
ParlaMint-UA_2013-09-19-m1.u112	Party of regions, national deputy Haydos.
ParlaMint-UA_2013-09-19-m1.u113	Istvan Haydos, factions of the Party of the Regions. Dear Vladimir Vasilovich, honourable colleagues, supporting our President Viktor Fedorovich's proposals for land management, will note that the adoption of this bill will have a positive impact on the economic development of local self-government, the development of their social and engineering networks, and on the performance of their functions. Therefore, I would like to vote in favour of this bill. The faction of the Party of the Regions also supports. Thank you.
ParlaMint-UA_2013-09-19-m1.u114	Freedom Union, National MP Mohnik.
ParlaMint-UA_2013-09-19-m1.u115	Please pass the word to Marcinkov.
ParlaMint-UA_2013-09-19-m1.u116	Martinks, please.
ParlaMint-UA_2013-09-19-m1.u117	Marcinkov, the All-Ukrainian Freedom Union. The President's veto is on the side of the chaotic illegal blockade of Kiev, against the Kiev community, which is currently fighting for its rights to comfortable living conditions in the city, to preserve the green areas and to preserve the cultural and historical environment of the city. In Kiev today, local self - government, an illegal city council, has been destroyed, and the city is ruled by the president’s governor. Today, however, we are asked to have no effect on the removal of land in the city, and Januković’s officials continue to destroy the city with impunity. That is why, in the interests of the Kiev community, the All-Ukrainian Freedom Union calls upon all deputies to show courage and today to overcome the President's veto on this bill. And so to show that we are protecting the city of Kiev and the Chinese today have protection in the Supreme Council from this raiding that takes place every day on the streets of Kiev. Thank you. Glory to Ukraine!
ParlaMint-UA_2013-09-19-m1.u118	Yes, the last speaker, and we'll make a decision. Vitalia Klicka faction, Vanzuriak People's Deputy.
ParlaMint-UA_2013-09-19-m1.u119	Please hand over Natalia Novak.
ParlaMint-UA_2013-09-19-m1.u120	Pass it on, please.
ParlaMint-UA_2013-09-19-m1.u121	Dear Volodymyr Vasilovich, honourable deputies! The thing is, isn't the President aware that there's an active city plan in Kiev? Didn't the President know that Kiev had money and a task to develop. Detailed plans for the territories? That is why we believe that today the President supports the chaotic forgetfulness, the distortion of the city of Kiev's historical and aesthetic design. The president advocates further destruction of the Daneprovian slopes by building helicopters, commercial entertainment centers, and the construction of a historic centre of skyscrapers. That's why the strike party advocates that you put the President's veto to the vote, and it will vote itself in favour of overcoming the President's veto.
ParlaMint-UA_2013-09-19-m1.u122	The discussion is over. May I have your attention, national deputies, please? I am betting on the vote of the Ukrainian Act (No. 2363-1) to amend Chapter V of the Final Position of the Ukrainian Law on the Regulation of Urban Activities to stop the ban on the removal of land with the proposals of the President of Ukraine (since 22.02.2013) for adoption in general, taking into account the proposals of the President of Ukraine. People's deputies, please vote. [[18:00:55]] For 233 Against - 53, held - 29, not a vote - 52. Decision taken. Don't yell, it'll be the factions. The factions. Dear National Deputies, we are taking part in the Minister, so we will give him the opportunity to present a law (number 2476a) amending article 6 of the Ukrainian Law on the State Budget for Ukraine 2013 (for NAC "Naftogaz Ukraine"). How will we view it? Please, I'm sorry. I'm sorry. I'm sorry. Please vote. [[18:02:00]] For 185 Against 54, held - 4, did not vote - 122. Decision taken. Reported by Minister of Energy and Coal Industry, Edward Anatoliyovich Stavitsky. You have two minutes. Please.
ParlaMint-UA_2013-09-19-m1.u123	Thank you. Good afternoon, Mr. President, the presidency, the distinguished national MPs, the Ukrainian bill to amend article 6 of the Ukrainian Act on the State Budget for Ukraine 2013 provides for State guarantees for the commitment of the public shareholder company Naftogaz Ukraine to the opening of the Gazprobank Stock Exchange (Russian Federation) for external borrowings. The draft law, submitted to the Supreme Council by the Cabinet of Ministers, is drafted by the Ministry of Energy and Coal Industry, to ensure timely and full settlement with the Open Shareholder Company Gazprom for Natural Gas imported into Ukraine, to launch the cash flows of the National Shareholder Company Naftogaz Ukraine to carry out its mandatory payments. On July 2, 2013, an agreement was made between Gazprombank, a company and an open stock company, to provide a credit line of $2 billion, an annual interest rate of 8.5 per cent by June 24, 2013. In connection with the difficult financial situation with the national company Naftogaz Ukraine, the bank made a proposal to extend the use of credit costs under the loan agreement. To date, the bank has extended the deadline for the cricket treaty until October 1st of this year. At the same time, in the course of the negotiations, the bank reported that it was ready to continue using credit costs of $2 billion for a longer period, provided that an additional guarantee was provided for the company’s credit agreement with State guarantees during the current year. The draft law is proposed within the limits of the funds provided for in article 6 of the Ukrainian State Budget Act for 2013 to provide State guarantees for $4.25 billion (US$ 500 million equivalent) under the obligations of Ukraine’s national stockholder company, and to exempt the company from the obligation to provide property or other enforcement.
ParlaMint-UA_2013-09-19-m1.u124	Finish up.
ParlaMint-UA_2013-09-19-m1.u125	State guarantees. The implementation of this bill will help to balance the cash flows of Naftogaz National Shareholders by extending to 7 years the use of credit costs in the amount of US$2 billion involved in the loan agreement to open shareholders. and ensure the continued uninterrupted operation of Ukraine's gas transport system. Please support this bill to amend article 6 of the Ukrainian State Budget Act 2013 in general. Thank you for your attention.
ParlaMint-UA_2013-09-19-m1.u126	Thank you. Have a seat. I invite the head of the Budget Committee, Eugenia Borisovich Geller, to report. Please. You have two minutes.
ParlaMint-UA_2013-09-19-m1.u127	Thank you, Vladimir Vasilovich. Dear Vladimir Vasilovich! Honorable National Deputies and Invitations! The Committee on Budget Issues at its session considered a government bill amending article 6 of the Ukrainian Law on State Budget 2013 as number 2476a. The Bill's Explanatory Note states that Naftogaz has entered into a series of credit agreements to ensure timely settlement with Gazprom for natural gas imported into Ukraine. The deficit in Naftogazu's circulation costs resulted from insufficient consumer accounting for natural gas received and government regulation of natural gas prices and heat tariffs. In order to balance the company's cash flows, it is necessary to provide State guarantees, its obligations, for extended terms of use of Russian Gazprombank and domestic banks, participants and additional funds through the issuance of their own bonds. According to the Chief Scientific and Scientific Administration, a bill resulting from the first reading of the bill can be adopted on the basis of statements, observations and suggestions. At the same time, it should be noted that the Act of 4 July under Article 396 has already been supplemented by paragraph 4. Therefore, in order to ensure consistency of the legislative rules, the bill needs to clarify the numbering of the new paragraph, which is also mentioned by the NEU. In view of the above, the Committee on Budgetary Questions has adopted a decision to recommend to the Supreme Council a bill of 2476 following a first reading review to adopt as a basis and as a whole a law that takes into account the clarification of the numbering of the new paragraph 5 instead of paragraph 4. In the event of the adoption of the bill, the Committee on Budget Affairs, together with the Chief Legal Authority, in the drafting of the relevant law, should provide the text with the necessary editorial and technical clarifications. Please support the committee's decision.
ParlaMint-UA_2013-09-19-m1.u128	Do you want to talk about it? Yes. Please sign up for factions. I beg you, the Vitalia Klitschka faction, National Deputy Rosenko, please.
ParlaMint-UA_2013-09-19-m1.u129	Please pass the word to Paul Rizanenko.
ParlaMint-UA_2013-09-19-m1.u130	Paul Rizanenko, please. Please.
ParlaMint-UA_2013-09-19-m1.u131	Pavlov Rizanenko, Faction "BRA", electoral district 97, Kyiv district, city of Brovary. As for Naftogazu, I would like to remind you, honourable deputies, that Naftogazu's debt to creditors, financial institutions, is today. By the end of the first half of the year, 55 billion dollars. Of these, 23 billion Naftogaz is obliged to pay off this year. On the other hand, the State owed Naftogazu more than $30 billion directly or because of the non-compensation of the difference in the Heatcommuneration tariffs. Today, we would not be discussing the issue of guaranteeing a new debt to Naftogazu if the state were to fulfil its obligations to Naftogaza. We need to understand why this happened. Naftogaz buys, imports gas at the same price, then sells it to the same TKE and the less-priced population. And this difference has to compensate, Naftogazu should be compensated by the state. In turn, TKE companies have a tariff approved by NCRE, which compensates only about 65 percent of their value. That's where the Naftogazu problems come from. The question of giving Naftogazu to a list of enterprises, institutions that can engage in loans under the State does not essentially solve the problem. In fact, the problem is that the poor pay for the gas. The price is the same for the population, regardless of whether a person is socially secure or not. The same is true of the price for heat. This should be completed and targeted benefits for socially vulnerable people should be set. We will not support this bill. We have a note. And we're not going to support his acceptance of pro in the second reading. We're going to apply. I want to pay attention to what we have.
ParlaMint-UA_2013-09-19-m1.u132	Freedom faction, National MP Mirny, please.
ParlaMint-UA_2013-09-19-m1.u133	Alexander Mirny, the All-Ukrainian Freedom Union. I want to begin by thanking you, Vladimir Vasilovich. This number of ministers for the introduction of laws is rare enough for us here. Hopefully this will be a practice that will be consistent and inescapable. Now for the bill. Respectable Society! Let's call things our names! The 2012 Naftogazu debt is what we want to cover from the 2013 failed budget. So we have to take money out of some kind of program that's unclear whether they're going to be executed or not, and cancel public debt, I would stress, stockholders' associations are guaranteed by the state. It's a completely wrong approach. And it would be clear that it would be understandable if a public stockholder society would take these guarantees for its own development, for modernization, for the supply and distribution of oil gas to the population, for rural and urban communities, but we are only making these commitments to pay off possible debt. We eat what we don't even do. We can't support Naftogaz in this way because it's either conscious bankruptcy or non-professional leadership. Let's choose what it should sound like. But we are definitely against supporting Naftogaz in this way. It's just driving the problem deep down. This is a completely wrong position. can't be supported. We should not be a State, I emphasize, all of us have to cancel the public stock company’s commitment, it is absolutely wrong. We need to finish this practice. Thank you.
ParlaMint-UA_2013-09-19-m1.u134	The Fatherland faction, National Deputy Anatoly Grizzenko. Please.
ParlaMint-UA_2013-09-19-m1.u135	Dear Volodymira Vasilovich, I address you first and warn you not to commit a violation of the law. If, however, he is put to the vote and accepted in the first reading, he is definitely not accepted as a whole. I've got other deputies from Fatherland, and I've got some adjustments for him. You have no right. That's the first one. Second, it also touches the law, and it touches the European law. In May our Parliament passed the European Anti-Corruption Act. Under this Act, which has already been enacted by the President's signature, our Committee on the Fight against Corruption and Crime has been given the right to conduct anti-corruption expertise. Such expertise on this bill, which is currently under consideration, has been carried out. Yesterday, at a committee meeting, we made a decision that clearly stated that the bill contained important signs of corruption, that it could not be adopted explicitly. And the last. That's from the moral category, that's a lie. I want to remind you, if Mikola Janovich Azarov hears anything right now, he will confirm the correctness of my words. When he applied for the post of Prime Minister of Ukraine, he also came to speak for our "Fatherland" faction. And he said close to the quote, "In contrast to the predecessors, a team of professionals will come to Kabmin. We know how and we will do that from the first year, from 2010, NAC Naftogaz will work profitablely, there will be no losses." It's now 2010, 2011, 2012, the fourth year of this government's work, and every year the damage is caused. I'll tell you where the money is. Remember the High Boyka? That is exactly the amount you need to pay back, and you will not have to adopt this law. Our faction will not vote. And once again, no acceptance in general. This will be your personal violation of the Law of the Rules. Thank you.
ParlaMint-UA_2013-09-19-m1.u136	Thank you. A party of regions, recorded by the national deputy Zurawski Put your hand in there, I don't know, make up your mind.
ParlaMint-UA_2013-09-19-m1.u137	Dear colleagues! What is the point? It's about getting a government guarantee to extend the term of the loan from Gazprombank. If we don't, the price of gas for the population will go up dramatically. The heating season is about to begin. A party of regions will support this bill. Thank you.
ParlaMint-UA_2013-09-19-m1.u138	Ladies and gentlemen, don't hold your hand because the factions have already come out. All of it. From the Communist faction. None. I can't. It's a reduced procedure. Peter Mikolaiovich Simonnka has a moment, please. And we'll make up our minds and rest.
ParlaMint-UA_2013-09-19-m1.u139	Simonenko, the Communist faction. Ladies and gentlemen, first of all, I want us not to talk about the interests of the oligarchs today who are sitting on the NAK Naftogazi and pulling the last out of Ukraine. And first of all, they talked about what it would turn out to be for Ukrainian citizens. What raises the tariffs on gas is clear and will definitely be. It's a requirement of the European community, it's in the Association Agreement. Why do you scream about it here, because it says, raise world prices. Next. Today it's going to bankrupt NAC Naftogazu, and it's clear that you're preparing and executing, which requires the European Energy Paper to distribute NAC Naftogazu, and then you can take the pieces away, and what with the debts will be left to the state. What should we do? The first thing to do, as we suggest. All of you, oligarchs, should be removed from the well that the Ukrainian people should use, not your pockets. That's the first one. It's different. It is clear that the NAC of Naftogaz is under state control. And the third. This is to change the algorithm of cooperation with the Russian Federation to get cheap gas.
ParlaMint-UA_2013-09-19-m1.u140	Okay. He's asking for a minute, he's asking a lot of Hannah Hermann, and we're going to vote. He's asking a lot. Please.
ParlaMint-UA_2013-09-19-m1.u141	The Ukrainian government is doing everything today to save Ukraine from what it has made with gas at prices of Julia Timoshenko’s gas. And if we don't help the Ukrainian government, Ukraine won't survive, because Timoshenko was only counting on this room to put a foothold on the Ukrainian government, and Ukraine will die. We won't let that happen!
ParlaMint-UA_2013-09-19-m1.u142	I'm asking you to sit down. Please sit down, prepare for the vote. I'm betting on a draft bill (number 2476a) amending article 6 of the Ukrainian Act on the State Budget for Ukraine 2013 on the NAC "Naftogaz Ukraine" for adoption as a basis. Please vote. [[B in m in s a l in]] [[18:19:17]] For 232 It's 69, it's 2. The MPs are breaking up, and you're pulling your hands, you see. And we agreed to shorten the terms for consideration on the committee to the second reading. Do you mind? You don't mind. [[B in m in s a l in]] Ladies and gentlemen, I'm adjourning the evening session of the Supreme Council of Ukraine. Tomorrow at 10 o'clock we'll continue this session.
