ParlaMint-UA_2013-05-23-m0.u1	Good morning, distinguished national deputies, invited guests of the Supreme Council of Ukraine. I'm asking the people's deputies to prepare for registration. Turn on the "Race" system. [[10:01:30.]] There were 382 national deputies registered. The morning session of the Supreme Council of Ukraine is open. Today is the birthday of Ukrainian national deputies Gladys Vasil Ivanovich and Kovalczuk Vitaliy Anatoliyovich. Let us congratulate them on their birthdays and wish them success. [[Applause]] Pursuant to article 60, prime. I report to the Supreme Council of Ukraine on the establishment in the Supreme Council of Ukraine of the seventh invocation of the Interfractional Inter-Parliamentary Union of Poltavščina. The National Deputy of Ukraine, Glaucoma Valerija Anatoliyovich, was elected head of the association. Ladies and gentlemen, I would like to inform you of the results of the work of the Supreme Council of Ukraine at the plenary on May 22nd. Five questions of the agenda have been considered. One bill was adopted as a basis. One project is sent to the Committee to prepare for the rereading of the first reading. And the two bills were rejected by the people's deputies. Ladies and gentlemen, you have a list of issues proposed for discussion and decision-making today. May I have your attention, Your Honor? It's a very big show today. There are so many questions that our voters and the government are waiting for. And we need to consider today all of the agenda issues that we've included on Thursday. So I would like to put it to a vote so that we can work today and implement the entire program of the approved order of today's session. So I ask the deputies to prepare themselves for the vote. I'm voting on the Supreme Council of Ukraine today to fully implement the agenda that we've approved for today on Thursday. People's deputies, please vote. [[10:05:06]] For 190 Against-8, held up to 56, not 151 votes. The decision is not taken. The factions. Region Party - 153, Fatherland - I don't want to work, 1, Vitalia Klicka - 0, Freedom - 0, Ukraine - 31, non-fractional - 5. What are we here to discuss? Let's not waste time and work. I ask you, after a minute on this issue, to discuss the factions. Please, strike faction, People's Deputy Kaplin. Please, on this matter, that we voted.
ParlaMint-UA_2013-05-23-m0.u2	Dear Mr. Head! Well, there's no need to squirm and give the Ukrainians a clear understanding of why the opposition forces voted against it. First of all, there's this practice that every Thursday the Party of Regions and Communists expel their national MPs, once a week, to vote on lobbyist laws that have nothing to do with improvement, but only have the main task of making improvements for the oligarchs and those who support the Party of Regions and Communists. That's the first one. The other one. We're always up for it. To be fruitful, so much. That's all it takes to work, if necessary, ready to work at night, but considering the laws that the Ukrainians are really looking forward to. This is the cancellation of the pension Reforms, that's tax cuts, that's the fight against smuggling, which most in Ukraine today, is the fight against corruption, which most in Ukraine today is leading. So let's face it honestly! We vote against lobbyism and the destruction of the fate of the Ukrainians.
ParlaMint-UA_2013-05-23-m0.u3	Ladies and gentlemen, the Conciliation Council has confirmed the order of the day. All faction leaders, committee leaders have made their proposals, many questions, and you don't want to take them. So I ask again, let's talk about and let's look at all the questions that you've all brought up, not I made them up, not voters, but people's deputies. We'll get to the replica, we'll arrange a minute from the faction and give it to you. I'll give you my word. The Freedom Union. I'll do anything. People's MP Tajnibok, please.
ParlaMint-UA_2013-05-23-m0.u4	Good morning! Oleg Tuggnibok, faction of the All-Ukrainian Freedom Union. Dear Mr. Head! But it is your position that raises such doubts about overly socialistic obligations that most people take on themselves from time to time. Why wasn't it so eager yesterday to work until morning and decide all the laws? But because most of the bills were put to the vote yesterday, the authors of which were representatives of the opposition. So our position is clear: we're ready to work, we're ready to work around the clock, but when it's all fair, it's all right and without any lobbyism. And the next. We ask you very much, coming out of the Rules and our arrangements, to give us a list of the missing national MPs. And today, because the Party of Regions has made such mass mobilization, we ask journalists and assistants there from the second floor to monitor the personal voting. Thank you.
ParlaMint-UA_2013-05-23-m0.u5	Oleg Jaroslavovich, you didn't ask for work until morning yesterday and yesterday. You make an offer and I'll put it to the vote. You're making an offer, dear friends. Yes, please join the Fatherland, Arsenius Petrovich Yatzenuk. Please.
ParlaMint-UA_2013-05-23-m0.u6	Mr. Head! I have to ask you what it is up to you right now that is how the Supreme Council of Ukraine is going to work. I would like to remind you that the first two issues of the agenda that should have been before Parliament today are the question of the creation of the next commission on the beating of journalists and the activities of the Ministry of Internal Affairs of Ukraine, which has actually begun to cover the bandits, not to protect the people of Ukraine from the bandits. The second question is our decision to invite the Attorney General of Ukraine to the Supreme Council of Ukraine to provide information on how the criminal case of beating journalists is being investigated and how the Ministry of Internal Affairs, as the country's main law enforcement body, should protect the Ukrainian people, and why the inactivity of the personal minister and the management of the Ministry of Internal Affairs has led to the beating of Ukrainian journalists and Ukrainian citizens?
ParlaMint-UA_2013-05-23-m0.u7	Finish up.
ParlaMint-UA_2013-05-23-m0.u8	In particular, Mr. Golovo, I would like to point out that Ukrainian journalists have published photographs, photographs of Minister of Interior Zacharychenk's whereabouts on the roof of one of the hotels where he watches the beatings of journalists and where he watches the riots that took place on May 18. I'm asking you two questions: The TSK stands, the second is the decision to challenge the Attorney General of Ukraine to the Supreme Council, as we agreed.
ParlaMint-UA_2013-05-23-m0.u9	Please, Party of Regions. Who's from the Party of Regions? None. Please, Peter Mikolaiovich Simonenko, the Communist faction.
ParlaMint-UA_2013-05-23-m0.u10	Simonenko, the Communist faction. Firstly, once again, I want to confirm that all the proposals that have been made to the Supreme Council's consideration of all the projects are included. The faction has consistently voted that they are included in the order of the day. Secondly, I would like to say to the "hit" people's MP that you are not present at the meetings yourself, because the Company's faction is always in full attendance at the meeting. [[B in m in s a l in]] Third. I would like to inform our voters once again, which, including first and foremost, has failed the pension reform process. They did not vote in favour of abolishing pension reform on purpose. And it was an oligarch conspiracy. I therefore reiterate that the Company's faction is organized. for organized and constructive work. To that end, we have introduced our package of anti-crisis laws, which we propose to consider as a matter of priority. Well, last of all, those who spoke of the May 18 events came to a peaceful demonstration with fractures and knives.
ParlaMint-UA_2013-05-23-m0.u11	Please finish.
ParlaMint-UA_2013-05-23-m0.u12	At the so-called, peaceful demonstration of May 18th, it was seen in all the shootings, as our comrades who witnessed it all came with fractures and knives. That's what we call a peaceful demonstration. It is therefore necessary to talk here today about the responsibility they have done with Ukraine over the past 20 years, which has, in fact, become a certain zone. And I am convinced that the proposals made by the Company faction are constructive and concrete, because they primarily protect the interests of the working person. Thank you.
ParlaMint-UA_2013-05-23-m0.u13	Party of regions, Koleshnichenko.
ParlaMint-UA_2013-05-23-m0.u14	Dear colleagues, I have a report first. We've got Russian fans here. The Ukrainian language just said some crazy phrase called their faction ready to work round-the-clock. I wish those Ukrainian - language enthusiasts could at least learn to speak Ukrainian, that is the first. And second, of course, it would be desirable to hear the Attorney-General's point of view on the fact that the “Freedom” party is a party that is breaking doors in the Kiev Council and not for the first time. With regard to these “Freedom” bandits who seized the Kiev Telegraph, the gangs of the Freedom Party, which terrorize the population, of course, require a report. In the area of criminal investigation, which is being conducted on the third day of the report, it is an attempt to break the criminal case and talk it out. Thank you.
ParlaMint-UA_2013-05-23-m0.u15	Calm down. I'm going to ask the people's deputies to think about it, and I'm going to put it to a vote later. If you plan to work, I will. Now let's go in the order of the day of our session. The nation’s Ukrainians, who are on board, are determined. Is Ariev’s national deputy? Order: He must be in Britain. According to Sobolev and Ljovckin’s instructions, they should also be on a mission. You don't? None. Order: National Deputy Heratchenko Yes. I see. There are no national deputies on vacations. In the hospital: is National Deputy Babic Victoria Volodymyrical? Yes. The Mishik People's Deputy is in my hospital. And there is a national MP of Scoobashevski. I see there is. I don't have any other data. National Deputy Stojko, what question do you have?
ParlaMint-UA_2013-05-23-m0.u16	Dear Volodymyr Vasilovich, the card of the Lionskin has been registered. She's in the hall, she's registered, and across the hall she says she's not voting right now.
ParlaMint-UA_2013-05-23-m0.u17	Is there a Lewtskin card? None. None. [[B in m in s a l in]] Let's move on to the first question. [[B in m in s a l in]] We agreed that Lewocany's card didn't vote. What else do you need? There's no credit cards. [[B in m in s a l in]] Where's LeVocany's place? Is the card there or not? Come on, look! What are you yelling at? Come on, look. [[B in m in s a l in]] Where's the Piggy Card? Give me this card. I'm asking for a card here for Missyek and Lewochkina. Pass it on to the Bureau. They will not learn in voting. Missik Vladimir Yuriovich. [[B in m in s a l in]] Alexander Sergiyovich, where's the card? They're asking questions. I checked in, and she's gone. It's a funnel. Where's the card? You won't? Did she register? Stop pulling hands! Let's work. Let's move on to the first question. With regard to the elimination of disagreements in the text of the adopted Ukrainian Law on Amendments to certain Ukrainian legislative acts on ensuring equality of rights between single mothers and single parents. Deputies! On May 15, the Supreme Council of Ukraine was adopted, I ask you to listen to the Act of Ukraine amending certain legislative acts of Ukraine to ensure equality of rights between single mothers and single parents. This is registration number 1179. During the preparation by the Committee on Social Policy and the work of the text of the adopted law for signature by the Head of the Supreme Council of Ukraine, the text revealed an inaccuracies. In particular, paragraph 1 of paragraph 3 of the Act amends the Ukrainian Employment Act, which became effective on January 1, 2013. This makes it necessary to clarify the text of the adopted law in the order laid down in article 131 of the Supreme Council’s Rules. With a view to removing the said inaccuracies, it is proposed to delete paragraph 3, paragraph 1, from paragraph 3, the amendment to the Ukrainian Employment Act, which is not available today from the text of the Ukrainian law that we have adopted with you. That's why I'm betting, I'm betting on the vote. There's no motive! There isn't! There isn't! I'll bet you a vote on that proposal. People's deputies, please vote. [[10:22:05]] For 345. Against-0, held-0, didn't vote 63. Decision taken. The proposal to resolve the differences is accepted. Come on, second question. On the elimination of disagreements in the text of Ukraine's adopted Act amending Ukraine's Law on the State Budget for Ukraine 2013 (increasing expenditure on the treatment of Ukrainian citizens abroad) (Registration No. 2414). In view of the inconsistencies and inconsistencies found in this law, a proposal is made to remove the differences found and to clarify the text of the adopted law. These proposals are given to you. Can I put a motion paper on the table? I am voting on the proposals put forward for the elimination of disagreements and inaccuracies in the Ukrainian Supreme Council adopted on 21 May 2013 by the Ukrainian Act amending the Ukrainian Act on the State Budget for Ukraine for 2013. People's deputies, please vote. [[10:24:03]] For 359 Against 0, held – 1, not voted – 48. Decision taken. Proposals for the settlement of disagreements are accepted. A draft Order (No. 2090) on the establishment of the Provisional Investigation Commission of the Supreme Council of Ukraine on the investigation of attacks against media agents on 18 May 2013 in Kiev on the street of Vladimirska, 15 and the investigation of other facts of pressure on the media, obstructing the legitimate professional activities of journalists. The materials are from the committee? Yes. So how are we going to consider it? Please, Efraemov Alexander Sergiyovich.
ParlaMint-UA_2013-05-23-m0.u18	Dear Vladimir Vasiljevic, distinguished colleagues, I would like to draw attention before considering this bill, to the fact that it is prepared in violation of the Supreme Council's Rules as the core of our law. We said we could go to make this commission 50 by 50. And we are ready to confirm this proposal today. But we would then like to refer to the list of issues that the Commission will consider, to the issues that have taken place yesterday in the Kiev City Council, as well as the events that have taken place with the banditry of Freedom representatives during the celebration of 9 May in the Ternopol region. If our colleagues agree to include this in the agenda, then we will support this decision. Unless they agree to be included in the agenda.
ParlaMint-UA_2013-05-23-m0.u19	Please finish.
ParlaMint-UA_2013-05-23-m0.u20	Let me finish. And even if they vote in favour of the draft decision, it will be illegal because we will write our protest against the violation of the law, and you will not have the right to sign the order. Thank you.
ParlaMint-UA_2013-05-23-m0.u21	Honorable MPs, honourable deputies, are offering to consider this issue, to enable all factions to express their thoughts and to make decisions. Therefore, it is suggested that the reduced procedure be followed. Oh, no? Come on. I'll bet you a vote on the proposal to consider the draft Ordinance on the Establishment of a Temporary Investigation Commission on an accelerated procedure. Please vote. [[10:28:00]] Z-70. I give the floor to the National Deputy of Ukraine, Arsenija Petrovich Yatsenyuk. Please. We have to vote. Have a seat. Please. Report.
ParlaMint-UA_2013-05-23-m0.u22	Mr. Chairman, the honourable members of the Supreme Council of Ukraine, are now on the agenda of the commission of inquiry. The following commission, which should investigate the facts of the beating of journalists, is aware of the planned provocation by interior officials. And I emphasize, not only by the officers, but also by the head of the Ministry of Internal Affairs. The facts that point to the fact that the Secretary of the National Security and Defence Council, Andri Petrovich, personally prepared the provocation data, personally engaged in the so - called antifascist march, and related to both the beating of journalists and the mass disturbances that took place on May 18th. Let me remind you, the Ukrainian opposition launched the "Get up Ukraine" action two months ago. This is a national protest against the regime of Viktor Yanukovic and for Ukraine to become part of the European Union, to sign the Association Agreement and for the Ukrainian State to once become a member of the great European family. We, namely, three opposition factions: the Fatherland faction, the Freedom faction and the Strike faction passed half of Ukraine and we were moved by how Ukrainians began to fight for their rights. What happened a few years ago was over. People saw that we had to get up. People felt that there was a power that could change the country. And people who voted in favour of the opposition and who wanted to change went to tens of thousands of rallies. We do not recall such an uplift of the national spirit over the past ten years. And from this high rostrum, we'd like to say, "Thank you very much, to every Ukrainian who's willing to fight, to every Ukrainian who's not afraid, to every journalist who knows that his sacred duty is to write and tell the truth and who comes and brings this truth to our Ukrainian citizens." We announced that the action "Get up, Ukraine!" She's not finished. What happened in Kiev on May 18 is just the beginning. This is the beginning of a new, honest and democratic power to come to Ukraine. This is the beginning of Ukraine's presidential election, or the presidential presidential election, where Viktor Janukovic will no longer be President of Ukraine, and we will have a new democratic Ukrainian government in the country. [[Applause]] We made it clear to the citizens of Ukraine that we have a clear plan of action, what to do, and what to do. We will continue to take action in all areas of Ukraine. And I'm on my way to the U.S.S.A., the D.A., the law enforcement system, the National Security and Defence Council, and you know, our next assignment is "Get up, Ukraine!" – this is the city of Donetsk. We know that in Donetsk people are also for change. Our job is to make the Ukrainians feel that they can run their country, that they are, like people who have the law and the Constitution, and by God's will, the right to determine which state to live in. And as an opposition, we will serve every Ukrainian citizen, everyone who has that right, and anyone who deserves another life. And nothing will stop us. And once again, I want to address Yanukovich and others. All your provocations, all your fights, all your crowds of people you held at the May 18 rally, will lead to nothing. You lose power, you lose trust in the people of Ukraine and you lose power in Ukraine as a whole. Our commission of inquiry is designed to find out, so what really happened on May 18th? After all, the Ukrainian opposition will continue with the action "Get up, Ukraine!" and August 24th in all areas of Ukraine and November 22nd on Freedom Day and finish the action "Get up, Ukraine!" On the day of the inauguration of the new Ukrainian President, what will happen. The fear of power, of the President himself and of his surroundings, is incredible to the Ukrainian people. When we announced the action on May 18th, those who want to demonstrate their necessity to President Yanukovic and primarily to Andrew Petrovich Klavev. That's right, Mr. Head. You fixed me yesterday, not since 1968, but since 1964. He was personally involved in these matters, and we want to find out his role and place in organizing these provocations. In addition, we know that of all the areas of Ukraine for money, I emphasize, for money, when 250 dollars were distributed to every civil servant, to Kiev by special trains and by special buses, our Ukrainians, who, as fascists, were pushed into the forced labors of the Party of Regions. So it was called the anti-fascist march. Within the framework of this commission, we want to find out who was giving direction to the district authorities, why did teachers and doctors have to teach our children and treat our citizens on a working day in the workplace, and who struggled with fascism in a country where there has never been Fascism in the last 20 years? Fascism appeared when the Party of the Regions came to power and began the rounding of the Ukrainian state, as it was in 2004. You know, in a different way, you're not going to be able to hold power, so you're repeating the 2004 split scenario when you were dividing Ukraine into varieties when you were dividing Ukraine into different Ukrainians. But you lost in 2004, and you lose in 2015, and nothing will help you. Our task is to find out, within the framework of this commission, what role and place the Minister of Internal Affairs of Ukraine, Yuri Zharchenk, is personally responsible for why the Minister of Internal Affairs of Ukraine. No, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, Sugar! Why is the Minister of the Interior here, speaking from the high court of the Supreme Council of Ukraine, defiantly lied: he lied about the actual circumstances and materials of the case, knowing that this was not true and knowing that he personally and his people were instructing "goofers" and had a direct bearing on the provocation that took place on May 18th. The Wave website published a photograph of the interior minister at the Intercontinental Hotel, along with the head of the Department of Internal Affairs in Kiev, Mr. Burjak, and on May 18 of the hotel's premises, they watched the riots and provocations that took place on May 18th. When Ukrainian journalists were beaten, when they began to do what each country was carrying on with the minister of internal affairs, the Head of the Security Service, the entire security system chain in Kiev, the police were covering the bandits. Yesterday's fact that the Prime Minister of Ukraine is legally and constitutionally required by Ukrainian journalists who have addressed him as a government official and as a minister of internal affairs to find out what was going on, to protect Ukrainian journalism and the people of Ukraine, to the maximum extent that Azarova had enough intelligence, is to expose journalists from the Cabinet of Ministers of Ukraine. This is another testimony and the fact that this authority has been involved in provocations and this authority is like a cockroach, they're afraid of light, and this light is carried by Ukrainian journalists, this truth is carried by people who are called to bring information to Ukrainian citizens, and we're going to protect every journalist. And the task of the commission of inquiry is to protect journalists, protect the people of Ukraine, find out who was involved in the provocations, and the new Ukrainian democratic authorities will break criminal cases and lead these cases to the imprisonment of those who beat the Ukrainian people! Glory to Ukraine!
ParlaMint-UA_2013-05-23-m0.u23	Ladies and gentlemen, is there a question for the rapporteur? You don't? Yes, please sign up. People's MP Pankevitch, please.
ParlaMint-UA_2013-05-23-m0.u24	I'd like to give you the word of Andrew Illenka.
ParlaMint-UA_2013-05-23-m0.u25	Andrew Illenko.
ParlaMint-UA_2013-05-23-m0.u26	Andrew Illenko, faction of the All-Ukrainian Freedom Union, city of Kiev. Dear Arsenija Petrovich, do you think that the situation that was a few days ago in Parliament when the Minister of the Interior did not say a single word of the truth, speaking out of the rostrum when he boldly smiled when there was a just and just criticism of total inactivity, in fact, under his authority, when there was definitive and clear evidence that these goons were covered by the militia. And by the time it was known today that this bounty hunter, Wadik Rumin, had already been released yesterday, do you not think that all of this is, in fact, one process, and the result is to have a severe flight breakdown in the interim commission of inquiry and the actual punishment of the guilty?
ParlaMint-UA_2013-05-23-m0.u27	Mr. Andrey, thank you so much for asking. I think that would happen in any European country that you're talking about. and about the European integration that can be heard every day on Ukrainian television channels from the Ukrainian government? So how would a president or any other senior official of the member states of the European Union go? First of all, he would be removed from the duties of Minister of Interior, which was the first decree to be adopted by the President. Second: The President was obliged to immediately call on the Prosecutor - General of Ukraine for leave and initiate criminal conduct based on the beatings of Ukrainian citizens and journalists. And thirdly, the President, as head of state, had to go to the people of Ukraine and the journalists and say, "We're going to settle down, we're going to punish the guilty, and no gunman in this country is going to be covered up by militia." Both the goons and the militias in prison should be in jail!
ParlaMint-UA_2013-05-23-m0.u28	I'm asking you, the Vitalia Klitschka faction, the Vanzurak People's Deputy.
ParlaMint-UA_2013-05-23-m0.u29	Pass it to Rosenka, please.
ParlaMint-UA_2013-05-23-m0.u30	Please, Rosenko.
ParlaMint-UA_2013-05-23-m0.u31	Dear Arseny Petrovich! Paul Rosenko, strike faction. We support this decision, of course, but we already see the representatives of the Party of Regions trying to stop this issue. And that's not surprising, because, indeed, the only word of truth that the minister of the interior said, standing here in the rostrum, that he was personally directing the process of the BTR, which he went into a crowd of pickers and protestors. Indeed, this seemed very strange, for the nearest administration of the Ministry of Interior was not in the Shevchenk district, but in Pechersk. And I want to ask you this. Yesterday was another disgraceful fact when, according to the protest, the prime minister of Ukraine denied the accreditation of journalists to the media. Will this be the subject of consideration by this commission of inquiry?
ParlaMint-UA_2013-05-23-m0.u32	Thank you very much, Mr. Rosenko. You know, there's some kind of plague in the Party of the Regions right now. Fear and pestilence. They're afraid of journalists, they're afraid of people, they're afraid of losing power. They keep their teeth in order not only to win 2015 but to remain in power forever. There is a time to throw stones, and the time will come to lay these stones. And we're already saying that this is no way for people to be treated, an honorable Party of Regions, or rather not a respectable Party. You mistreat millions of Ukrainians, both those who voted for you and those who did not vote for you. By the way, you're no longer loved in Donetsk than in Western Ukraine. In Western Ukraine, you weren't expecting anything. [[Applause]] Azarov, who yesterday is the prime minister of the country, the people, the great European country, 45 million people, the 45 million Ukrainian people, is exhibiting journalists. He's going to get a feedback, of course. But this feedback must also be from the President and the Attorney General. Let me remind you.
ParlaMint-UA_2013-05-23-m0.u33	Finish up, come on. Please.
ParlaMint-UA_2013-05-23-m0.u34	The current criminal law provides for criminal responsibility, first of all, for the excess of authority and official authority. Not Timoshenko should be planted as you planted her illegally, but Azarova. For corruption and for what he does to journalists. The others. For obstructing journalistic activity. I know there isn't an honest prosecutor in this country yet. But these materials do not burn. The time will come and the honest prosecutor’s office, and the fair court will consider everything and make legal and judicial decisions. And that will be the time.
ParlaMint-UA_2013-05-23-m0.u35	Thank you. Sit down, Arseny Petrovich. I give the floor to the Head of the Committee on Rules and Deputies of Maquienko Volodymyr Volodymyrovich.
ParlaMint-UA_2013-05-23-m0.u36	Dear Vladimir Vasilovich! Dear National Deputies! The Committee at its meeting on 22 May 2013 considered a draft decree of the Supreme Council of Ukraine on the establishment of a temporary commission of inquiry by the Supreme Council of Ukraine on the investigation of the attacks on members of the media on 18 May 2013 in Kiev on the street of Vladimirska, 15 and other facts of pressure on the media, obstacles to the legitimate professional activities of journalists, introduced by the Ukrainian National Deputies Yatsenuk, Klick, Dragnibok, at the number 2090a of 21.05. In 2013, I did not make a decision. At the same time, I point out that a number of comments were made to him at the committee meeting to discuss the draft Regulation. That is, the name of the Regulation project does not match its contents, namely the first and second items. That is, the name of the project refers to the establishment of a temporary commission of inquiry into the attack on media agents on May 18, 2013 in Kiev. And paragraph 1 of the project deals with the creation of a Commission to Investigate the situation of bodily harm to Ukrainian citizens, as well as the illegal inaction of law enforcement authorities during the "Get up, Ukraine" campaign. And the commission's task of investigating certain facts, paragraph 2, does not match either the name of the bill or paragraph 1 on the establishment of the interim commission of inquiry. In addition, we note that the faction of the Party of the Regions has proposed to include its representatives in the interim commission of inquiry into the attack on media agents on 18 May 2013 in Kiev on Volodymyrska Street, 15 and to investigate other facts of pressure on the media, hindering the legitimate professional activity of journalists, not the interim commission of inquiry proposed in paragraph 1 of the draft Decree. Paragraph 4 of the draft Order does not correspond to part two of article 85 of the Supreme Council of Ukraine Rules on the principle of proportional representation of MPs, MPs, namely: from the Party of the Regions – 3 National Deputies, from the All-Ukrainian Union of Fatherhood – 2 National Deputies, from the political party "UDA" Vitalia Klitska – 1 National Deputy of Ukraine, from the All-Ukrainian Union "Freedom" – 1 National Deputy of Ukraine, from the Communist Party of Ukraine – 1 National Deputy Ukraine. The authors are not aware that the faction of the Party of Regions consists of 207 Ukrainian national deputies, while the faction of the All-Ukrainian Union of Fatherland includes 95 Ukrainian national deputies. In this regard, it is necessary to conduct this paragraph in accordance with the requirements of the law on proportional representation. Note, too, that paragraph 3 of the draft decree duplicates paragraph 4 and needs to be unified. In addition, the faction of the Party of the Regions proposes to include investigations into the facts and circumstances that took place on May 9 in the city of Ternopolis and other cities, as well as in Kiev on May 22. In view of the above, we believe that the Supreme Council cannot decide on the establishment of this interim commission of inquiry, but should be governed by part three of article 138 of the Supreme Council's Rules of Procedure, according to which decisions and other acts of the Supreme Council are taken in compliance with the procedure provided for in the first-reading drafts, such as the adoption on a basis, with their adoption as a whole. It should therefore be put to the vote on the basis of the draft decision and have the project's authors elaborate on it, taking into account the comments and then accept it as a whole. Thank you for your attention.
ParlaMint-UA_2013-05-23-m0.u37	Is there a question for a co-conspirator? Please sign up. I'm asking the people's deputy Martinjak.
ParlaMint-UA_2013-05-23-m0.u38	Please pass the word to Jeremiah.
ParlaMint-UA_2013-05-23-m0.u39	Pass it on, please.
ParlaMint-UA_2013-05-23-m0.u40	Dear Volodymyr Vasilovich, distinguished national deputies! The issue of commissioning should not be discussed. A few days ago, disgraceful events took place in the state of Ukraine, and all national deputies, without exception, should vote in favour of the commission. But from the non-fractional national MPs, we insist that we include Donya Alexandre in the commission of the non-fractional national deputy. And one more thing. Vladimir Vasilovich, yesterday we spoke to you about the fact that until the Rules were over, non-factional people would have a word. You said you'd give us your word. But you left the hall and refused to give us your word. After that, the non-fractional MPs stopped voting, and we did not discuss or vote on any of the questions yesterday. From non-fractional deputies. If we continue to ignore the national MPs, almost 30 people, we will have to engage more radically to defend our interests. Thank you for your attention.
ParlaMint-UA_2013-05-23-m0.u41	The Fatherland faction, the national deputy of the Stac.
ParlaMint-UA_2013-05-23-m0.u42	Please give the word to the Honourable Deputy.
ParlaMint-UA_2013-05-23-m0.u43	Let's do it.
ParlaMint-UA_2013-05-23-m0.u44	Ladies and gentlemen, I would like to draw your attention to the following situation. What has been sounded today by the head of the regulatory committee in the Parliamentary rostrum is the private opinion of the people’s deputy, MacKeenka. Those comments made from the Parliamentary rostrum were not confirmed by the conclusion and decision of the Regulatory Committee, and then, in fact, what took place was a violation of the Rules itself. The Regulatory Committee did not endorse any conclusions that would have been taken into account by Mr. MacKeenk. Please take this into account. Vladimir Volodymyrovic, but I ask you to comply with the requirements of the Rules and decisions that are approved by the Regulatory Committee. Thank you.
ParlaMint-UA_2013-05-23-m0.u45	Is there anything to answer? Please.
ParlaMint-UA_2013-05-23-m0.u46	Dear colleague, in my speech, I said, "The committee has not made the right decision."
ParlaMint-UA_2013-05-23-m0.u47	National MP Litvin Volodymyr Mihajlovich. Please.
ParlaMint-UA_2013-05-23-m0.u48	Dear Vladimir Vasilovich, distinguished colleagues, it is clear that this decision must be made in order for the commission to rule on the events that took place on May 18 during political action. At the same time, in the development of what Jeremeyev Igor Mironovich said, we have collected signatures and we propose to include a non-fractional one in this case, this is our colleague Dony's national deputy. Along with what I can see, the draft rulings need to make some stylistic changes and refinements, and I will hand them over if there is no objection in order to accept this decision immediately. Well, and apparently six months of commission work is extremely long, given the urgency of the problem. The term could be reduced and reviewed, as proposed, within a month. Thank you.
ParlaMint-UA_2013-05-23-m0.u49	Thank you. Have a seat. I'm asking the factions of the national deputies to sign up. Please, National Deputy Zubcevski.
ParlaMint-UA_2013-05-23-m0.u50	Please give the floor to Petra Nikolaevich Simonenko.
ParlaMint-UA_2013-05-23-m0.u51	Please, Simonenko Peter Mikolaiovich.
ParlaMint-UA_2013-05-23-m0.u52	Dear colleagues, I reaffirm our position on the faction that we have expressed in the consideration of this issue at the Conciliation Council. The Company's faction will vote in favour of the establishment of this special commission. Another issue that matters to us today is in principle important to you, and what will be the outcome of the Commission's work? I say today, there will be no results. And it's understandable what this is all about. I remind you that we have previously set up not one commission on such facts and not one report which would lead to the fact that the perpetrators of any illegal acts have been held accountable for the entire history of an independent Ukraine. That is why I propose that we take a different view of what is going on today. Why is all this happening today in Ukraine? Because there is a struggle between representatives of the same capital class. Only the difference between them today is that some are in power, while others, in the so-called opposition, there is nothing else here. The interests of the ordinary labourers of the people of Ukraine and, more importantly, there is no public interest here. There is a struggle for redeployments and the possession of specific posts provides an opportunity to own a particular property. Who declares justice and the struggle for justice?Oh, my God! Those who say to you, dear Ukrainian citizens, say that those who beat a veteran on the Day of Victory every year, who shed blood in the years of the Great Homeland War, who freed Ukraine and the peoples of Europe from fascism, do not allow the country to worship the winner and beat the veteran. And these people today say that they want justice! Second. Justice is sought in the fight at rallies by means of scraps and knives. I'm surprised then. Why haven't the police arrested those who operated with knives and shown these footage yet? When knives were used, not in discussions, they tried to defend their position in the dispute. Therefore, I would like to draw attention once again to who is fighting for justice today — those who have torn Ukraine apart. Dear colleagues, once again I would like to warn you on behalf of the Company faction. They broke Ukraine by language. Crucify Ukraine on an ethnic basis. They have become holy to the multinational people on a religious issue, and that is where the people of Ukraine are scattered. That's the only way political bastards work. That's why the Communist faction, on the one hand, says we're going to vote. On the other hand, we warn that this decision will not do anything because there is a struggle for power, not for the future of the people of Ukraine. Thank you.
ParlaMint-UA_2013-05-23-m0.u53	A party of regions, the People's Deputy of Bogoslovska, please.
ParlaMint-UA_2013-05-23-m0.u54	Good afternoon, dear colleagues. A party of regions is voting in favour of this decision, but we need to know from the outset that if the quota principle of reforming this commission is not maintained, it will be illegal. So we ask the opposition to sit down with us to negotiate and resolve the question of the composition of the committee. Because once again, I want to say, the position of opposition is clear when you want to use the commission of inquiry as a platform for the pyar. But Parliament is not a show, Parliament is a political work. Secondly, we are counting on the opposition to vote in the same way for the production that we are about to make, for the creation of the Follow-up Commission on the events in Ternopol on 9 May and for the events in Kievrad, which were related to the broken inventory and so on. Third. We want to look again at the impact faction and the Fatherland faction, if you're Euro-Integrators and you really are European values, if you keep calling us to listen to the Council of Europe, we ask you once again to listen to the Council of Europe, which requires you to stop any alliances with neo-fascists in Ukraine. And this is your responsibility to the people of Ukraine. By your actions, you are sanctifying the fact that these insolent boys from the backyard are beginning to build up opposition in Ukraine. And the third. What I want to tell you right now is a Facebook video by Olga Snisarczuk of April 2nd of this year. I'll just read the phrase, "I'll tell you, at this stage of the country's political development, I would hardly be sorry, even if there were lemons in the MPs." So all these civilizational saps are stupid crocodiles. So that's what you need to consider when you're investigating the question of a journalist who was on a stake without a badge, who has no bodily harm, and who has a Facebook record similar to Fascist calls for Freedom. Thank you for your attention.
ParlaMint-UA_2013-05-23-m0.u55	The Fatherland faction, the national deputy of the Stac. Please.
ParlaMint-UA_2013-05-23-m0.u56	Good afternoon, colleagues, good afternoon, Head of Parliament, good afternoon, journalists! Here, in Parliament, it is accepted that when names are mentioned, this person is entitled to a replica. Unfortunately, there will be no snisarchuk replication in this room, since it does not have this possibility. But believe me, Mrs. Inno, and believe me, the majority of the press reps you're going to hear a lot of things coming out of your behavior. [[Applause]] From this high rostrum, I want to thank the Minister of Internal Affairs: a very honest man who was in the government of Azarov, who said that she was the one who led and organized these atrocities that were being created on the day of the opposition rally. Thank you, Minister of Interior! Because it was the minister who said that he had given the command to the A.T.R.R.R. or the B.R.P. or whatever they called it, that the machine went towards the largest crowd of people, because it turns out we had a lot of attention that day! – worked with the only police department – the Shevchenkow Police Department. I think that a smart person, probably who wouldn't want to act with the bandits, would still take this BTR away from the center, well, and it's clear that she wouldn't have gotten into the crowd at all, watching from a high building behind it all (we saw pictures on the Internet) where the personal minister with a smile on his face watched people beat journalists. Well, I think it's a disgrace to such a minister! [[B in m in s a l in]] Finally, what happened yesterday at the meeting of the government of Azarov once again shows that there is no need for journalists in the country. I don't think journalists need that kind of authority either. I think that journalists will now express their civic position in the same way. You're destroying the people of Ukraine, you're destroying society, you're destroying journalists now. I think Mr. Titsuko, he's Romanian, released yesterday for 23,000 dollars, and when he's out of court for a BMW, he can now ask similar things to the judges about all the other detainees, including the illegally detained public activists during all the rallying. I think the Party of Regions, if they're decent, honest people could actually sponsor these people's release from Ukrainian prisons. And first of all, think of something, even under siege, that neither Julia Timoshenko nor Yuri Lucenko were released, and the bandits are now beating journalists and beating people for 23,000 dollars to go and kill our people, our children. [[Applause]] Guys, you can't let that happen, like the vavillah that took place in preparation for this action, when pregnant women were thrown off trains when they were on the streets, not even coming to the center of Kiev, the police.
ParlaMint-UA_2013-05-23-m0.u57	Let me finish.
ParlaMint-UA_2013-05-23-m0.u58	When the police were on the streets, they stopped and threw people in car parks just as they approached Krestatík. And most importantly, I've just mentioned the name of the Minister of Internal Affairs of Zacharychenk. On my request, let him come and tell me his line. Thank you.
ParlaMint-UA_2013-05-23-m0.u59	The Vitaly Klitschka faction, Ionova.
ParlaMint-UA_2013-05-23-m0.u60	Please pass the word Heratchenko.
ParlaMint-UA_2013-05-23-m0.u61	Please, Heroshenko.
ParlaMint-UA_2013-05-23-m0.u62	Irina Heratschenko, strike faction. Dear colleagues, I think that if Ukraine were already a country that was fully Euro-Integrated and would not have been in Ukraine and we wouldn't have discussed it. Because today it's an honor for the Party of Regions that got into the Klinch with the journalists to support these commissions. And in the name of the commission, as authors, we want to say very clearly what it's called to investigate the facts of the attack on media representatives and to investigate other facts of media pressure, to prevent legitimate journalistic professional activity. If you have reason to have a relationship with someone, please create another TSC and work in this direction. The other one. I mean, power and press are always in opposition to each other. It is normal, but it is important to find, honourable colleagues, mutual understanding on matters that are working for Ukraine, and to remember that today we have to protect the right of journalists to work and support the creation of this commission. The strike faction in its entirety will vote in favour of this TSC. And we support fully the decisions of our non-fractional colleagues on the need to include a representative of those deputies who were voted for by half of Ukraine. Olez Dony has to work on this committee, and we demand that it be included, and that will be a quota principle, absolutely fair. We think it's really very wise that no one in this room has to cooperate with neophasists. That's why Beats, Freedom, Fatherland don't hire black-shirts for their rally. And we want to do the same thing to the parties of power. We demand your hard reaction to the fact that the judges come to protect the unknowingly from whom your unforgivable leaders, who are conducting unfavorable rallys, are in such a situation. And I really want us to move away from our political emotions today, to vote for a commission to protect journalists, our colleagues with you, who sometimes communicate with you smart, sometimes not very talkative, thoughts to the Ukrainian society. So let us please support journalists, their right to a profession and their right to work safely in this country. Thank you for your attention.
ParlaMint-UA_2013-05-23-m0.u63	Freedom Union, National Deputy Illenko.
ParlaMint-UA_2013-05-23-m0.u64	Andrew Illenko, faction of the All-Ukrainian Freedom Union, city of Kiev. Well, by commenting on some of the previous statements, I would like to say that they're not beating a badge, and unfortunately, they're beating a face. And this situation, which has become 18 numbers, and the political terror that has been unleashed by the authorities and the Yanukovich regime in Ukraine today, has a deep roots in the fact that the police and so - called law enforcement agencies have been completely involved with the open-minded bandits, with the outright popota that beats journalists, who beat peaceful protestors, which impedes the legitimate demands of the people. And actually what we saw here a few days ago was the so-called report of Minister Zacharychenk. It wasn't a report, it was a cartoon. It was a confusing topic, it was an attempt to shift from a sick head to a healthy one, when in all, it turned out to be a guilty opposition. Which turns out to be the opposition of a small number of fighters, these goons. Which turns out to be journalistic and therefore similar nonsense. And actually because that is the situation, we demand that such a temporary commission of inquiry be created. "Freedom" will, of course, vote in favour of this decree. And we demand a full investigation, which should have serious political consequences, because there can be no minister in office if the minister personally directed the beating of people and the beating of journalists, looking at it from the balcony of a hotel on the street of the Great Zitomir. It is simply impossible in a civilized state! And literally a few more words I wanted to say about the events that were on the Kiev City Council yesterday, because there's already been an attempt to change the subject again. So what I'd like to say is that yesterday in the Kiev City Council, there was a huge landholding: hundreds of questions on land, municipal property, because the second issue was already ending with the authorization of the Kiev City Council, and now in the last session they wanted to vote on it. In fact, it was because totally illegal protection did not pass into the session room of the National Deputies’ assistants that they had to be brought there. And no one actually broke anything, and no one beat anything. This is all a complete lie, because this door just got knocked off the hinges and then stood on them again. Here's the whole situation and the whole problem that the Party of Regions is trying to blow up today. But people's creativity has already responded, and I'm going to quote a little poem in the original language: "If you took the door off the cock and put the door back on the loop, then you're a fascist beast. Believe, little fellows, firm faith." Glory to Ukraine!
ParlaMint-UA_2013-05-23-m0.u65	God’s Word. One minute for the replication. Please.
ParlaMint-UA_2013-05-23-m0.u66	Thank you. Since my name has been named here, I will allow myself a replica of the following [[B in m in s a l in]] This is the homage that is now demonstrating "Freedom," which is once again calling on us to address the Head of the Supreme Council and finally to start implementing the Rules. Any MP who violates the order in the hall may be removed by the end of the meeting. I think we should use this rule rule for these Freedom Hammies. [[B in m in s a l in]] Secondly, I'm sure that the journalist who was here, who is Mrs. Sniserczuk's co-worker, is mixing personal sympathy with public policy. You can't threaten us with the idea that the entire journalistic community is going to go against us because there are huge problems with freedom of speech in the journalistic community as well. [[B in m in s a l in]] As long as you get paid in envelopes while you're at it.
ParlaMint-UA_2013-05-23-m0.u67	Deputies! Please sign up for an address to discuss the matter. Party of regions, National MP Sphenov.
ParlaMint-UA_2013-05-23-m0.u68	Please pass the word to Chechtovo.
ParlaMint-UA_2013-05-23-m0.u69	Please, Chechetov.
ParlaMint-UA_2013-05-23-m0.u70	Dear Vladimir Vasilevich! Dear colleagues! [[B in m in s a l in]] It is hard to imagine that 70 years later, 70 years after the Great Victory, when the Soviet people, the Soviet soldier defeated Fascism and saved the homeland and the world, and Europe from the fascist plague, political forces will appear in Ukraine that will raise the flags of neo-Fascism, anti-Semitism, racial hostility! [[B in m in s a l in]] It is hard to imagine that 70 years after the Great Victory, there will be policies that will beat 9 May, on holy day, 90-year-old soldiers of the Great Victory. I've already told you where those sleepers are, I repeat, where those sleepers would be if they met a soldier of the Great Victory at 45. Under the shelters, everyone would hide like mice, like rats, sitting in shelters, and now the heroes are raising their hand. Is it indignant to anyone else who has given the right to call themselves the title nation and humiliate the great Jewish people, to call them not the title nation, to call them Jews? If I were the Fatherland faction and Strike, I'd be away from Freedom. You've got yourself a mess. If they're talking about whether there's any fascism growth or not, what else do you call a 9 May vet beating? What do you call yesterday's "Freedom" thugs in Kiev? It's not hooliganism, it's not banditry! That's real fascism! Therefore, I think that the 50 thousandth anti-fascist rally in Ukraine has shown that the people of Ukraine do not share the fascist origins of individual young people. That is why we must set up a commission today, where we must consider it more broadly. And it was said that the beating of veterans, the humiliation of the soldiers of the Great Victory, what was in the Ternopol region, the bandit-fascist march in Kiev, I think it's time to deprive these young men of their mandates, to deprive them of their integrity! The whole room will vote. I call for a decision to be made, a decision to make on the Supreme Council, to deprive the integrity of those who broke the doors in Kiev of those who beat up veterans. Let them answer to the court as ordinary citizens. Fascism must be burned with the iron of thorns so that it is not too late, as in Germany. Therefore, our position is one. We have to go to parity. Introduce the quota of the Party of the Regions and expand its powers, deal with 9 May, humiliate veterans and deal with the banditry in Kiev. That's it.
ParlaMint-UA_2013-05-23-m0.u71	National MP Martinjak, please.
ParlaMint-UA_2013-05-23-m0.u72	Pass the word to Peter Prashenko.
ParlaMint-UA_2013-05-23-m0.u73	Would you pass the powder? Please.
ParlaMint-UA_2013-05-23-m0.u74	Dear national MPs, distinguished journalists, indeed, distinguished journalists, I would like to begin my speech with thanks to you. Because if it wasn't for your principle and your professional work, maybe our law enforcement agencies still would be looking for bandits, criminals who raised their hands on a woman, a journalist, a man who fights for the truth. [[Applause]] And belonging to this category is not defined by the presence of a badge. Moreover, the actual presence of the badge meant belonging to the bandits because all the bandits who beat the peaceable people wore badges. [[Applause]] And second position. I don't think there's any more interested than power in creating and efficient activities, in the work of this committee. Because this commission is not a division or a barrier between power and opposition. This commission places a barrier or barrier between normal people and bandits. And it is in order to determine who the bandits are that the commission is formed. And so that the bandits are held accountable. Because I don't care, and I don't even want to call the name of the inhuman who danced, as it is called, on the tentacles in front of the woman and today Ukraine was thus represented on the air of all the television channels. This is how Ukraine's faces are made by these bandits. And we have to demonstrate that there is another Ukraine, that there are normal people. And these normal people are much more able to fight bandits, even if the law enforcement system is not capable of doing so. Third position. It's extremely important. I am absolutely convinced that drawing on the responsibility of this inhuman is not the purpose of this commission. I'm sure that we have to be unanimous, that the thief should be in prison, that's all. But more importantly, those who sent these people, those who hired them, those who organized them, those who gave the militia BMD in order to molest and provoke peaceful action, today must be held accountable, released from law enforcement and other conversations. And in order to ensure the fair, efficient work of the commission, we demand that non-fractional persons include Olesia Donya, for whom they have given their signatures to the vast majority of non-fractional ones. Thank you for your attention.
ParlaMint-UA_2013-05-23-m0.u75	Freedom Union, National Deputy of Cherniaków.
ParlaMint-UA_2013-05-23-m0.u76	Please pass the word to Jurek Mikhalchinin.
ParlaMint-UA_2013-05-23-m0.u77	Please, National Deputy Michalchisin.
ParlaMint-UA_2013-05-23-m0.u78	Dear Volodymyr Vasilovich, distinguished colleagues, respectable donate-fascist invaders! It was a brilliant thesis, he said, that the journalist was without a badge. So let me remind you, there's already been a regime in the history of Europe that bullies have been harassing people. Only then were those badgers in the form of David’s stars. I remind you, my dear intellectuals, my dear philosophers and cultures from the Party of Regions, if you want to fight some phenomenon, learn to define concepts. I'll remind you that the nationalism that you're so eager to stamp, and national socialism is different as a chair and an electric chair. You don't know that. Moreover, to the right and to the left with fascism, many minds are not needed. If war has already begun against the Ukrainian people, have the courage not to hide behind others. Who are you protecting yourself from Berkut? Who do you protect your cousin from with hired fighters? You're all very brave anti-fascists here, aren't you? Sportsmen, former fighters of criminal groups. So go out one at a time, what's the problem? Beating up the girls, the heroes are here! Come on, come on! [[Applause]] What are you whistling at? I'm gonna whistle at you! And this Wadik Rumin you hired, which you took away from the court, I'll remind you of the Italian classic, Dante Aligheri. He had in "Divine Comedy" in hell in the ninth circle, in the worst circle, just selling judges. And that's why I urge you to think about it, the noble donate-fascist invaders, already in the history of a Nurnberg, there are also people who were MPs, ministers, generals, marshals. And all of a sudden, they realized that when they were filmed, they turned out to be just, like, worthless cowards. Make sure that you do not face the same fate. [[Applause]] By declaring the guilt of the Ukrainian people, you are successively, from one social group to another, destroying independent, self-sufficient, free-thinking people: students, intelligence, now becoming journalists. I want to assure the Ukrainian people of one thing: we will never back down, and we will be able to deal with this daughterly rush. When under this hall, under the Kabmin, under the President's administration will be the whole of Ukraine, which will rise, not only in the West, when the bandit gives his hand to the roost and the rascal, when the bellows come with the trimbites and the miners with the bits, then feel, the honorable pre-Fashist invaders! [[Applause]] Also, society, in these May days Ukraine honors the memory of those who died fighting for its statehood. 75 years ago, in Rotterdam, a leader of the Organization of Ukrainian Nationalists, a real colonel, was killed by NCD agents, not by rats in pursuits that are currently working in the Ukrainian Ministry of Internal Affairs, Eugene Konovaltz. All normal people please honor his light with a moment of silence.
ParlaMint-UA_2013-05-23-m0.u79	Freedom Union, National MP Hanenko.
ParlaMint-UA_2013-05-23-m0.u80	Please pass the word to Vitalia Klitschka.
ParlaMint-UA_2013-05-23-m0.u81	Please, National Deputy Vitaly Klitschko.
ParlaMint-UA_2013-05-23-m0.u82	Dear colleagues! I want all of us to applaud the solidarity of journalists who speak for almost a week and to this day are now under the Cabinet of Ministers, defending the right to speak freely (). [[Applause]] [[Applause]] This is very important because journalists defend not only their right but also their right to receive honest, fair information from the media to every citizen. I call on every deputy to support the creation of a commission, because this committee. [[Applause]] I would like to draw your attention once again: this is not a definition of the relationship between the political forces, this commission has to give a clear answer to society, why is freedom of speech violated, why does the police not today defend the interests of citizens, why do we not have rights today, not just journalists, and can it be put under pressure by any person? I'm sure today people who start looking for fascists who start finding differences are working for a split of the country. Stop, please! [[Applause]] Unfortunately, we don't hear the President's reaction to social events today, unfortunately, we don't have a reaction to it today. Sorry, we have the Prime Minister's reaction when he expels journalists from the Cabinet of Ministers. Because journalists have to explain what is happening in the country. I want to remind you again, we all declare European integration, let's not forget, European integration is first of all freedom of speech. I appeal to all factions to support the creation of the Temporary. TSC and provide representatives to obtain objective information based on these facts that we are already talking about on the second day.
ParlaMint-UA_2013-05-23-m0.u83	Ladies and gentlemen, the time for discussion is over. I'm asking for a closing statement. Do you have a reporter? [[B in m in s a l in]] Everything! All of it! All right, 15 minutes is over, give me a closing statement. Here comes Arseny Petrovich. Come on. Well, aren't you going to perform? [[B in m in s a l in]] Time's up, don't bother, please.
ParlaMint-UA_2013-05-23-m0.u84	Mr. Chairman, the national deputies of Ukraine! What's going on is that these thugs who are covered by the Party of Regions, ministers, prosecutors, presidents and governments, are going to move on or are we going to stop them? We have to stop them. We vote in favour of the decree, we form materials, and we bring to justice all those who abuse the Ukrainian people and who do not allow Ukrainian journalists to speak the truth. We're going to protect the people and we're going to protect the Ukrainian state and Ukrainian journalism. Please vote in favour.
ParlaMint-UA_2013-05-23-m0.u85	Thank you. Let's move on to the decision of the Supreme Council. [[B in m in s a l in]] I know. I'm voting on the draft Decree (Registration No. 2090a) on the establishment of the Provisional Investigation Commission of the Supreme Council of Ukraine on the investigation of the attack on media agents on 18 May 2013 in Kiev on the street of Volodymyrska 15 and the investigation of other facts of pressure on the media, the obstruction of the legitimate professional activity of journalists for adoption on the ground. Please vote. [[11:28:54]] For 374 Ladies and gentlemen, we have taken the floor. There's an offer. An additional number of suggestions were made. And Donya's candidacy was, and there's a whole range of other proposals. Let's just give you a minute, and you can make some suggestions that need to be added. Then I'll put it all together. Please, one minute from the factions. All of it? What about the offers? I can't put it all together because there are MPs. Rules are Rules, let's follow the Rules all! Please write down the factions for a minute. I'm asking Mohnik, Freedom Union, a minute. For proposals before adoption as a whole. Please.
ParlaMint-UA_2013-05-23-m0.u86	Please give it to Kaidi.
ParlaMint-UA_2013-05-23-m0.u87	Pass it on, please.
ParlaMint-UA_2013-05-23-m0.u88	Thank you. Alexei Kaida, faction of the All-Ukrainian Freedom Union, Ternopil. Dear fellow MPs, you know, we have every question about whether there's a political issue or whether it's an economic question, but the approach is clear: the government likes it -- so they vote, they don't like it -- they start inventing a lot of nonsense. When on May 9, I was asked to conduct an investigation into the events in Ternopol, for example, the prosecutor's office, your head of the district public administration, he was the head of the district regional party, the chief militia, the BSS, made absolutely no wishes regarding the establishment of a commission and the investigation of the cases in Ternopol. Instead, they started planting assistants for the national MPs, and they started planting members of the local boards to play. Nine people have already been punished for three and five days. If you want to investigate Ternopil, we'll vote in favour.
ParlaMint-UA_2013-05-23-m0.u89	Party of regions. National Deputy Herman, please.
ParlaMint-UA_2013-05-23-m0.u90	Dear colleagues! You remember that on Tuesday we took a break before the session started to ask the first questions about the need to investigate the incidents that happened, because, as no one else, we really need to know who did this provocation against Ukraine, the Ukrainian authorities and the President made who was the author of it. That's why we're going to support this decision, but the interests of the entire people of Ukraine, the interests of the electorate require that this commission be part of our faction. This will be fair with regard to all of Ukraine. We ask you to do this and, of course, as initiators of this investigation, we will support this determination. Thank you.
ParlaMint-UA_2013-05-23-m0.u91	The Fatherland faction. Please, Abdullin.
ParlaMint-UA_2013-05-23-m0.u92	Please pass the word to Yatsenyuk.
ParlaMint-UA_2013-05-23-m0.u93	Please give it to Yatzenjuk.
ParlaMint-UA_2013-05-23-m0.u94	Mr. Head! I'm going to start by saying that all the factions are represented in the Supreme Council decree on the creation of a commission of inquiry. Including the faction of the Party of Regions. The other one. When we met at the Conciliation Council, an agreement was reached, and that was correctly stated politically by Mr. Ephraimov, the leader of the Faction Party of the Regions, that they were ready to form a 50-to-50 commission. So this is a real equal representation of all forces. Third. Suggestions were made here to reflect a position, including those who did not join any factions. Because as the "Fatherland" faction, we support the inclusion of the national MP Donny in the commission. Please, with this right, namely, another member of the commission, this is the National Deputy of Ukraine, Dony, to vote on this decision in general. Thank you.
ParlaMint-UA_2013-05-23-m0.u95	It's Vitaly Call's Faction. Wait a minute. Please, Palamarchuk.
ParlaMint-UA_2013-05-23-m0.u96	Please pass the word to Valery Karapuntsov.
ParlaMint-UA_2013-05-23-m0.u97	Please.
ParlaMint-UA_2013-05-23-m0.u98	Dear Vladimir Vasilovich! The strike faction welcomes your actions, in fact, as Head of the Supreme Council at the time of adoption and consideration of this decision. In fact, an agreement was reached in your office. And I wanted this agreement to be fulfilled. And indeed, part of the deputies who represent much of Ukraine, about what Hanna Herman said, are not represented anywhere. Including in the regulatory committee, there is no representation that allows the committee to conduct itself, not as the head of the regulatory committee, but as the head of the Regulatory Committee of the Party of the Regions, and to report on what has not actually happened. The Strike Party is asking for support for a non-fractional proposal, to join Olesia Donny in the commission. And with this amendment to vote on the ruling as a whole, as agreed under your headship. Thank you.
ParlaMint-UA_2013-05-23-m0.u99	Please, from the non-faulty. Jeremiah, Igor Jeremeyev, please.
ParlaMint-UA_2013-05-23-m0.u100	Dear Head! Dear National Deputies! Today, we must unite around this event. We should vote on the decision on the committee as a whole. We need to make sure that the commission is in charge in a month. And that's what's important. This commission should report publicly and events should take place publicly. This incident, which has taken place, must be stopped. Because it's actually a test of our society, and it's the people's deputies, as we stand for compliance with the laws in Ukraine, and how consciously we are to become or be called a European state. Therefore, nonfractional people will vote in general and propose to vote in general. And we also suggest that Alexander Donya be included in the commission. Thank you for your attention.
ParlaMint-UA_2013-05-23-m0.u101	Please, the Communist faction, Peter Simonenko.
ParlaMint-UA_2013-05-23-m0.u102	Simonenko, the Communist faction. I'm asking you to make these changes in the name of this project. "May 18, 2013, in Kiev, at 15 Volodymyrska Street." Next, a coma: "the beating of veterans of the Great Homeland War in the Lviv and Ternopil areas during the celebration of May 9 – The Day of Victory and the threats to public order and the beating of veterans in the city of Ohtyrca, I insist on this, while the monument was being endured. In view of the fact that the police closed the case, free moral agents who violated public order and threatened Ukrainian citizens were not responsible. So once again, I insist that a substantial amendment be introduced here and that the commission investigate the slaughter of veterans of the Great Homeland War in the Lviv and Ternopil areas and events in Ohtirka. Thank you.
ParlaMint-UA_2013-05-23-m0.u103	Everyone made a statement. You want to scream, Mr. Kayda? Come on, the proposals were MPs. It was an offer to include a national MP, Donya. There is a proposal by the Party of the Regions to include the Royal Commission. Next. There is a proposal from non-fractionals – the report of the interim commission to be considered a month from the date of adoption. There's an editorial plan. There are suggestions from the communists. Because putting it to a vote is all the suggestions? How? There's a second offer. There's a statement for you to take a break. Go into the office now and come back, take it all. Then I will put to the vote proposals that came from the deputies in general. Oh, no? That way we don't make a decision then. [[B in m in s a l in]] Have a seat. There's another offer. No amendments are made to this provision as a whole. I bet you a vote on the draft regulation (register number 2090a) On the establishment of a temporary commission of inquiry by the Supreme Council of Ukraine on the investigation of the attack on media agents on May 18, 2013, in Kiev, addressed to Volodymyrska Street, 15 and other facts of pressure on the media, obstructing the legitimate professional activity of journalists for adoption in general. Please vote. Please vote. [[11:39:52]] For 354 We accepted this one as a whole. 354, against 0, held – 0 – 61 did not vote. Decision taken. The factions. Region Party - 169, Fatherland - 84, Vitalia Klicka - 38, Freedom - 36, Company - 0, non-fractional - 0. The questions have been considered. Please. Yeah. I'm begging you, there's been a statement by two factions. 30-minute breaks for consultations. [[B in m in s a l in]] Let's continue work at 12 o'clock for 10 minutes. At 12 o'clock, we'll continue the session for 10 minutes.
ParlaMint-UA_2013-05-23-m0.u104	Ladies and gentlemen, please calm down. And let's get back to work. I'd like to give the floor to the head of the Fatherland faction Arsenia Petrovich Yatsenyuk. Three minutes, Arseny Petrovich.
ParlaMint-UA_2013-05-23-m0.u105	Mrs. Hanna, listen, listen, this will help. Mr. Chairman, members of the Ukrainian Parliament, the opposition has insisted on hearing the Minister of Interior of Ukraine over the past few days, as well as on inviting Ukraine’s Attorney General to the Supreme Council. After the Conciliation Council, we made the following joint decision. Tomorrow, according to the Ukrainian Act on the Cabinet of Ministers of Ukraine, the entire composition of the Cabinet of Ministers, led by journalistic hater Mikola Azarov and hater of the Ukrainian people, must come to the Supreme Council of Ukraine. And the second. After "the hour of the Government" the vote is called upon to hear the information of the Attorney General of Ukraine, Mr. Pshonka, on the status of Ukrainian legislation and on the investigation of violations of the rights and freedoms of citizens, the brutal beating of members of the media and the inaction of Ukrainian law enforcement officials during the "Get up Ukraine" campaign. May 18, 2013. The opposition made its demands. We jointly decided on the "hour of questions to the government" and on the resolution on the invitation of the Attorney General of Ukraine to the Supreme Council of Ukraine with relevant information. Thank you for your attention.
ParlaMint-UA_2013-05-23-m0.u106	Honorable National Deputies, May 17, 2013 at the Plenary of the Supreme Court of Ukraine, Romanyuk Jaroslav Mihajlovich was elected head of the Supreme Court of Ukraine. According to article 131 of the Constitution of Ukraine, the Head of the Supreme Court of Justice is a member of the High Council of Justice. According to article 217 of the Ukrainian Act on the Rules of Procedure of the Supreme Council of Ukraine and article 17 of the Ukrainian Act on the Higher Council of Justice, a member of the High Council of Justice personally makes an oath at the plenary meeting of the Supreme Council of Ukraine. And for the conclusion of the oath, I invite the Head of the Supreme Court of Ukraine, Jaroslav Mikhailovich Romanyuk, please.
ParlaMint-UA_2013-05-23-m0.u107	I, Romanyuk Jaroslav Mihajlovich, have sworn conscientiously, honestly and impartially to serve as a member of the High Council of Justice in order to ensure the formation of a corps of high - professional and honest lawyers and the observance of law and ethics in the activities of judges and prosecutors.
ParlaMint-UA_2013-05-23-m0.u108	Thank you. Let us wish Jaroslav Mikhailovich success, objectivity, all the good things! [[Applause]] Ladies and gentlemen, the question of the election and release of judges is under review. So let's move on to the question of the election of judges. I invite you to report to the Deputy Head of the High Qualifications Commission of Judges, Mikola Grigorovitch Pinchuk. We agree, we've determined the procedure with you. Call the Order, call the judges. We listen, there will be comments from someone -- raise your hand, we'll look at it separately, and we'll vote for the rulings. Do you have a deal? Yeah. Please call the draft rulings.
ParlaMint-UA_2013-05-23-m0.u109	Dear Vladimir Vasilovich! According to part three of article 76 of the Ukrainian Law on the Judiciary and Status of Judges, the Supreme Qualifications Commission of Judges of Ukraine carried out a review of compliance by candidates with the requirements of article 127 of the Constitution of Ukraine of articles 53, 64 of the Act. She also discussed the appeal of citizens, public organizations, businesses, institutions, organizations of all forms of property, public authorities, and local self - government authorities to the activities of candidates for the post of judges who came to the Supreme Qualifications Commission of judges of Ukraine as a matter of urgency during the Commission’s consideration of the issue of recommending them to serve as judges. In accordance with article 85, part one, section 27, of the Constitution of Ukraine, article 78 of the Law on the Judiciary and the Status of Judges, I submit the application.
ParlaMint-UA_2013-05-23-m0.u110	One minute. Decision 2078 is being considered. Yes.
ParlaMint-UA_2013-05-23-m0.u111	Yes. I propose that the judges be elected on an untimely basis: District Administrative Court of the Autonomous Republic of Crimea Kushnov Alona Alexandrovna; Johno-Frankiv District Administrative Court of Kafar Vitali Volodymirovich; The Kirovograd District Administrative Court of Mohilan Svetlan Volodymyrna; At the same time, I would like to point out to you that on May 22, 2013, the head of the Kirovograd District Administrative Court and the judge were informed by the commission that they changed their name to Dehtyarov in connection with the registration of marriage. Copies of documents that confirm the change in the name of the judge are sent to the Head of the Supreme Council of Ukraine. The Lviv District Administrative Court of Kuhar Natalia Andriyevna; The District Administrative Court of Pelonuk Dean Leonidivna; the district administrative court of Kyiv Mazur Alon Sergiyevna; Court of Commerce of the Donetsk Region Kurilo Hanna Evgeniyevna, Popkova Denis Alexandrovich; The court-martial of the Kyiv district of Kotkina Oleg Vitaliyovich; The Economic Court of the Odessa Region of Petrenko Natalia Dmitrovna; The Kharkiv Economic Court of the Purchasing Inna Olegovna Region; The Economic Court of the Hersonian Region of Humanities, Volodymyrna; Economic Court of the Cherkas region of Vasilovitch Anatolia Volodymyrovich; The court-martial of Kyiv Golovin Ildarovna, Samsina Roman Igorovich; The economic court of the city of Sevastopol Glaucoma Valery Olegovna.
ParlaMint-UA_2013-05-23-m0.u112	Ladies and gentlemen, do you have any comments on the candidates? Please, National Deputy Romanyuk.
ParlaMint-UA_2013-05-23-m0.u113	Thank you. Dear Vladimir Vasilovich, Honourable Chief, Honorable Colleagues! Our strike faction has carefully reviewed the Supreme Council's draft decrees on the selection of judges on an untimely basis and the materials on candidates. I would like to remind everyone that the election of judges is a constitutional duty for our Parliament, so the Vitalia Klitschka faction will take part in the vote on these issues. However, I would like to point out that in the materials provided by the Higher Qualifications Commission of Judges, there are reports of complaints concerning individual candidates who have not been considered and on which checks are ongoing today. We, I would like to point out that we stand for the purity of the procedure for the election of judges and are obliged to respond to the finalization of our electorate. So I propose, Your Honor Mikola Grigorovich, that I ask you to remove from the draft regulations that are given to us today and give them five.
ParlaMint-UA_2013-05-23-m0.u114	Let me finish.
ParlaMint-UA_2013-05-23-m0.u115	Let me finish. Remove the following judges: first, under Order 2078a, we have no observations.
ParlaMint-UA_2013-05-23-m0.u116	All right, please. Let's go to the Order, I'll give you my word. Ladies and gentlemen, please prepare for the vote, please sit down and prepare for the vote. I'll bet you a vote. I'm betting on the vote on the draft Ordinance (registration number 2078a) on the selection of judges on an uninterrupted basis. People's deputies, please vote. [[13:04:28]] For 255 Against - 1, holding - 4, not voting - 132. Decision taken. Show by factions: The Party of Regions is 174, Fatherland is one, Vitalia Klicka is 32, Freedom is zero, the Company is 30, non-fractional is 18. Call it determination, let's move on.
ParlaMint-UA_2013-05-23-m0.u117	Draft Regulations (No 2078a-1). Choose judges on an untimely basis: The Central District Court of Simferopol Zabolotna Natala Mikolayevna; Obukhiv District Court of the Kyiv District of Zinchenka Alexander Mikolaiovich; The Archesian District Court of Odessa District of Kotelevsky Ruslan Ivanovich; The economic court of the Kyiv district of Lopatin Anton Volodymyrovich.
ParlaMint-UA_2013-05-23-m0.u118	Does the MPs have a point? Faction, please. You don't? It's Vitaly Call's Faction. Please turn it on.
ParlaMint-UA_2013-05-23-m0.u119	Dear Chairman, please remove from the draft ruling 2078a-1 Zinchenko Alexandr Mikolaiovich, the Obukhiv District Court of the Kyiv Region. There are no other observations.
ParlaMint-UA_2013-05-23-m0.u120	Let's make a deal: we're going to delete it, we're going to vote for it, but we're going back to the debate. Then you'll report it. I'm putting to the vote the Bill (registration number 2078a-1) on the election of judges on an indefinite basis without the name Zinchenko. People's deputies, please vote. [[13:06:44]] For 256 Against it, 1 / 1 We're holding on to six. There was no vote – 131. Decision taken. Please show by factions. Tell me more.
ParlaMint-UA_2013-05-23-m0.u121	Draft Order on the Election of Judges (No. 2078a-2). To elect judges who were previously elected on an open-ended basis as judges: The Supreme Administrative Court of Ukraine, Jurchenko Valentina Petrovna; the Court of Appeal of the Autonomous Republic of Crimea, Igor Igorovich; the Court of Appeal of the Winnitsk Region of Kovalczuk Alexander Vasilovich, Sal Taras Bogdanović; the Court of Appeal of the Dnipropetrov district of Bondar Jan Mikolayevna, Sourcelejko Olena Eugenena, Chumak Nadia Alexyevna. At the same time, I report that Judge Chumak did not attend the plenary session of the Supreme Council. According to a telegram addressed to the judge of the Supreme Council of Ukraine, Judge Chumak Nadija Alexiyevna did not attend a plenary meeting in connection with her involvement in criminal proceedings. The accused has been in custody since January 2013. The Court of Appeal of the Donetsk Region.
ParlaMint-UA_2013-05-23-m0.u122	What's the offer for Chumak? We can look without it.
ParlaMint-UA_2013-05-23-m0.u123	I think you're right.
ParlaMint-UA_2013-05-23-m0.u124	We have a right. I wanted the MPs to know.
ParlaMint-UA_2013-05-23-m0.u125	Continue? The Court of Appeal of the Donetsk Region of Gladoon Volodymyr Romanovich, Krupoder Dmitry Alexanderovich; the Court of Appeal of the District of Žitomir, Colomiet Oksana Sergiyevna; the Court of Appeal of the Zakarpat district of Bisagh Taras Juriovich; the Court of Appeal of the region of Kirovograd of the Mogile Oleg Petrovich; the Court of Appeal of the Luhansk Region of Gorochuk Aleksija Vasilovich; the Court of Appeal of the Lviv Region of Copenhagen, Svetlana Mikolayevna, Nitkewicz Andrija Vasilovich; The Equal Court of Appeal, Recognized Inna Viktorovna.
ParlaMint-UA_2013-05-23-m0.u126	Any comments on the decision? Please, Romanyuk.
ParlaMint-UA_2013-05-23-m0.u127	Dear Chairman! Please delete the following candidates from the list of decisions regarding the election of judges: Igor Igorovich, Bondar Jan Mikolayevna, Chumak Nadia Alexiyevna, Kolomiet Oksana Sergiyevna, Bisag Taras Yuriovich
ParlaMint-UA_2013-05-23-m0.u128	Who else?
ParlaMint-UA_2013-05-23-m0.u129	Bisaghu Taras Yuriovich.
ParlaMint-UA_2013-05-23-m0.u130	One, two, three, four, five names. We're still removing these names from this ruling, and I'm putting to the vote a draft Decree (registration number 2078a-2) on the selection of judges without a name that he called a deputy. People's deputies, please vote. [[13:11:00]] For 256 Against 1, held-7, did not vote 129. Decision taken. Let's see the factions. Please report further.
ParlaMint-UA_2013-05-23-m0.u131	A proposal is made for a draft Order on the Election of Judge (No.2078a-3). Select Geneva Eleanor Wiacheslavna to serve as Judge of the Lenin District Court of Lugansk.
ParlaMint-UA_2013-05-23-m0.u132	Any notes? Please.
ParlaMint-UA_2013-05-23-m0.u133	Dear Chairman! Please remove Judge Geneva Eleanor Wieacheslavna from the relevant draft Decision of the Supreme Council.
ParlaMint-UA_2013-05-23-m0.u134	Order, one last name, please give an explanation. Explain. Listen to the explanation.
ParlaMint-UA_2013-05-23-m0.u135	Dear Roman Sergiyovich! The commission is running transparently, correct. She worked and would cooperate with the Ukrainian Parliament in an honest and conscientious manner. I'm reporting that all the complaints that came with respect to Judge Geneva Eleanor Veacheslavna have been checked against each other. Complaints came mainly to the judge’s trial. Complaints accepted by the committee are unfounded.
ParlaMint-UA_2013-05-23-m0.u136	I'll bet you a vote. You got the information. A replica? Please, please.
ParlaMint-UA_2013-05-23-m0.u137	Dear Mikolo Grigorvitch! We're shooting questions, we're voting in favour.
ParlaMint-UA_2013-05-23-m0.u138	Questions all. The comments have been withdrawn. I'm betting on the vote on the draft Order (registration number 2078a-3) on the election of Judge Geneva Eleanor Veacheslavna to the judge on an uninterrupted basis. People's deputies, please vote. Baby, vote, please. [[13:13:32]] For 263 Against – 1, held – 7, did not vote – 123. Decision taken. The factions, please. Tell me more.
ParlaMint-UA_2013-05-23-m0.u139	A draft Order on the Choice of Judges (Decision No. 2078a-4) is proposed. Select Zamega Oleg Volodymyrovich to serve as Judge of the Berdichov District Court of the Žitomir Region on an uninterrupted basis.
ParlaMint-UA_2013-05-23-m0.u140	Any notes? Please.
ParlaMint-UA_2013-05-23-m0.u141	Please remove from the draft Order of the Supreme Council a candidate for Judge Zamez Volodymyrovich.
ParlaMint-UA_2013-05-23-m0.u142	Please explain to the deputies.
ParlaMint-UA_2013-05-23-m0.u143	Dear Roman Sergiyovich, dear Mr. Head, distinguished national deputies! I'm informing you that Judge Zamez has received three complaints. Complaints are thoroughly checked. Complaints about judicial action by a judge, these complaints are declared unfounded by the commission.
ParlaMint-UA_2013-05-23-m0.u144	Do you take notes? Put the romance on.
ParlaMint-UA_2013-05-23-m0.u145	Let's take it.
ParlaMint-UA_2013-05-23-m0.u146	The comments have been withdrawn. I'm betting on the vote on the Bill (No. 2078a-4) on the election of Judge Oleg Volodymyrovich to the judge on an indefinite basis. People's deputies, please vote. [[13:15:24]] For 261 Against – 1, held – 8, not voted – 126. Decision taken. Let's see the factions. Tell me more.
ParlaMint-UA_2013-05-23-m0.u147	Dear Mr. Golovo, I have just received information from the distinguished Roman Sergiyovich regarding the candidate for the post of judge of the Obukhiv District Court of Kyiv, Zinchenka, Alexander Mikolaiovich. He agreed that the application had been considered, that the applicant had been given a reasonable answer and that there were no obstacles to the selection of the candidate.
ParlaMint-UA_2013-05-23-m0.u148	I don't know what you're reporting. You report the 2078a-5. Report. And then.
ParlaMint-UA_2013-05-23-m0.u149	Draft Order on the Election of Judges (No.2078a/5). To elect judges who were previously elected on an open-ended basis as judges: The Supreme Administrative Court of Ukraine, Victor Volodymyrovich; The Supreme Economic Court of Ukraine, Carter Valery Ivanovich; the Court of Appeal of the Zacarpathian District of Life of Eugene Hennadyovich; the Court of Appeal of the Kyrovograd district of Bondarczuk Ruslan Anatoliyovich; The Lviv Administrative Court of Appeal Ischuk Larissa Petrovna; Odessa’s Administrative Court of Appeal, Fedusik Andrija Grigorovitch
ParlaMint-UA_2013-05-23-m0.u150	Is there a note? Please, National Deputy Romanyuk.
ParlaMint-UA_2013-05-23-m0.u151	Please exclude the following candidates from the draft ruling of the Supreme Council: Life of Eugene Hennadiyovich, Bondarchuk Ruslan Anatoliyovich. All of it.
ParlaMint-UA_2013-05-23-m0.u152	All of it. Okay. We'll be back. Well, let's explain Life.
ParlaMint-UA_2013-05-23-m0.u153	Roman Sergiyovich, distinguished national deputies, the Honourable Head of the Supreme Council! I report quite frankly that the statements made against these judges, considered by the commission, are found to be unfounded.
ParlaMint-UA_2013-05-23-m0.u154	And Life and Bondarchuk. Yeah, right?
ParlaMint-UA_2013-05-23-m0.u155	Yes, these judges.
ParlaMint-UA_2013-05-23-m0.u156	Do you take notes?
ParlaMint-UA_2013-05-23-m0.u157	No, we're not filming.
ParlaMint-UA_2013-05-23-m0.u158	You're not filming. I'm betting on the vote of the Supreme Council of Ukraine (2088-5) on the election of judges on an untimely basis. People's deputies are requested to vote on all of these names. We're voting for everyone, we've given an explanation. [[13:19:01]] For 229 Against – 1, held – 38, did not vote – 126. Decision taken. Please, by the factions. Tell me more about the decision.
ParlaMint-UA_2013-05-23-m0.u159	So this is the last decision. As for the judge, the candidate, more loyal to the office of the judge of the District Court of Kiev, Zinchenka, Alexander Mikolaiovich. The distinguished national MP, Roman Sergiyevich, withdrew his remarks regarding the candidate. He concluded that all the claims and complaints made against the judge were considered unfounded.
ParlaMint-UA_2013-05-23-m0.u160	We've got the information. I'm betting on the vote of the Supreme Council of Ukraine on the election of Judge Xinchenka Alexander Mikolaiovich. People's deputies, please vote. [[13:20:36]] For 240 Against-1, held-7, did not vote-144. Decision taken. And by factions, show me. Now, let's do the second one. Report. We have five men after the Order (2078a). Report the first one.
ParlaMint-UA_2013-05-23-m0.u161	Yes, I reported 2078.
ParlaMint-UA_2013-05-23-m0.u162	2078a-2, please. There were five candidates. The first candidate is Kruczkov Igor Igorovich, please.
ParlaMint-UA_2013-05-23-m0.u163	Now.
ParlaMint-UA_2013-05-23-m0.u164	You've reported this Order.
ParlaMint-UA_2013-05-23-m0.u165	Reported, yes.
ParlaMint-UA_2013-05-23-m0.u166	Did you find it?
ParlaMint-UA_2013-05-23-m0.u167	Wait a second. What's the decision?
ParlaMint-UA_2013-05-23-m0.u168	Two, two. Nate, if you're there, paper. It is, isn't it? Kručkov, first name, Igor Igorovich.
ParlaMint-UA_2013-05-23-m0.u169	Candidate for the Court of Appeal of the Autonomous Republic of Crimea Kručkov Igorovich So there's a complaint against this candidate. The complaint was considered, and it was found to be unfounded. I can't see why they're not there.
ParlaMint-UA_2013-05-23-m0.u170	Your suggestions, do you copy?
ParlaMint-UA_2013-05-23-m0.u171	Yeah, I got it. Now, Bondar Jan Mikolayevna. Aah! Let's vote. I would like to vote on the nomination of Kručkov Igorovich for election on an urgent basis. [[13:23:09]] For 234 Against – 1, held – 40, not voted – 117. Decision taken. Report to the Court of Appeal of the Dnipropetrov district of Bondar Jan Mikolayevna.
ParlaMint-UA_2013-05-23-m0.u172	Hence, regarding the candidate for the post of judge, it was acknowledged that the complaint had not been substantiated. The complaint was about the judge’s procedural actions. That's why.
ParlaMint-UA_2013-05-23-m0.u173	The explanation, the information has been answered. I'm betting on the election of Jana Mikolayovna Bondar as appeal judge of the Dnipropetrov region on an uninterrupted basis. Please vote. [[13:24:12]] For 234 Against – 1, held – 39, did not vote – 116. Decision taken. Let's see the factions. Got to know each other. Next is the Milky Way of the Alexyevna Hope. Please.
ParlaMint-UA_2013-05-23-m0.u174	She's not here, but.
ParlaMint-UA_2013-05-23-m0.u175	Chunk's busy in the criminal process -- he's looking into the case. I've given you this information, Your Honorable People's Deputies.
ParlaMint-UA_2013-05-23-m0.u176	The law doesn't deny it. [[B in m in s a l in]] Let's do it. Next time, let's move it. There's no candidate. It's a deal. Let's do it. The Court of Appeal of the District of Žitomir, Colomiet Oksana Sergiyevna
ParlaMint-UA_2013-05-23-m0.u177	Colomiet Oksana Sergiyovna, candidate for the post of Judge of the Court of Appeal of the District of Žitomir The test admits that the complaint filed against the judge, declared unfounded, is a complaint of her procedural actions.
ParlaMint-UA_2013-05-23-m0.u178	I'm voting for the election of the Colomier of Oksana, Sergius, Judge of the Court of Appeal of the Žitomir Region on an untimely basis. Please vote. [[13:26:17]] For 232 Against – 1, held – 38, not voted – 118. Decision taken. Let's look at the factions. Let's have a look. Report to Bisaga Taras Yuriovich.
ParlaMint-UA_2013-05-23-m0.u179	Candidate for Judgeship of the Court of Appeal of the Zakarpat district of Bisaga Taras Yuriovich Complaints came, complaints were carefully examined by a committee that was found to be unfounded. Hence, there is no basis for drawing him to discipline.
ParlaMint-UA_2013-05-23-m0.u180	I am voting for the election of Judge Bissau Taras Juryovich as judge of the Court of Appeal of the Zakartat region on an untimely basis. Please vote. [[13:27:39]] For 231 Against – 1, held – 39, not voted – 117. Decision taken. Report on your release.
ParlaMint-UA_2013-05-23-m0.u181	After my release, it's not mine.
ParlaMint-UA_2013-05-23-m0.u182	Thank you. Let us congratulate the judges on their election, wish them success, objectivity, and all the best for you. Thank you. Good luck. Yes, Your Honor, I beg your attention, let's move on to the question of the dismissal of judges. I invite you to report to the deputy head of the High Council of Justice, Mr. Udivichenko Alexander Sergiyovich. Report.
ParlaMint-UA_2013-05-23-m0.u183	Good afternoon, distinguished national MPs. Dear Volodymyr Vasilovich, distinguished MPs, distinguished audiences! Suggested for your consideration of the Supreme Council of Ukraine Decision No. 2445-1. In accordance with article 126, paragraph 5, of the Constitution of Ukraine, the Supreme Council decides, in connection with a violation of the judge’s oath to release judges: Rowenkov City Court of Luhansk Region Božko Mikolaajovich, Kuligin Eugen Vasilovich; I will briefly explain the reasons why the Superior Council of Justice made such a decision. The judges in the college considered the criminal case of a citizen of David, who, while in a state of alcohol and drug abuse, committed the deliberate murder of David’s own wife with a particularly cruel temper and then left his one - year - old son David on the sidelines in danger. The judges who examined the case determined that he was acting in a state of pathological impact, although there was no adequate evidence in the case. On appeal, the Court of Appeal found that he was in a normal state of mind during the commission of the crime and was punished in the form of permanent deprivation of liberty. He was a police officer, and he was in charge. And his wife, who was brutally murdered, was also a militiaman. The case gained great resonance, and the actions of judges who allowed unconscionable treatment. By the way, the third judge who was in this college, he wrote a separate opinion, i.e. he was against the actual release from the punishment of the college.
ParlaMint-UA_2013-05-23-m0.u184	Anybody got a warning? None. I ask the national deputies to vote in person because they find assumptions and complaints there. I ask you to vote only in person. I'm betting on a draft Supreme Council of Ukraine (registration number 2445-1) ruling on the release of judges. People's deputies, please vote. [[13:31:57]] For 275 Against 0. We're holding on to two. They didn't vote - 111. Decision taken. I'm asking for factions. We've seen it. Tell me more. Please. Please report.
ParlaMint-UA_2013-05-23-m0.u185	Draft Regulation (registration number 2445-2) The Supreme Council of Ukraine on the release of judges According to article 126, part five, paragraph 5, of the Constitution of Ukraine, the Supreme Council of Ukraine decides, in connection with a violation of the judge’s oath to release judges: Dougenske District Court of the city of Krywog Dnipropetrovsk district of Kozak Andrija Volodymirovich (he is present in the hall); Central Natalia Grigorovna is missing, she's been handed a message. It's being reexamined. I briefly report on the reasons for the decision of the High Council of Justice. In a college case, the judges qualified the actions of a citizen of Taran to exceed the necessary self - defense. While, in fact, he murdered a Southay citizen in front of his fellow countrymen in the courtyard of a house for hooligan purposes. The Court of Appeal and this sentence were handed down by a higher authority and sentenced a citizen of Taran for deliberate murder. This case also became highly resonant, and it damaged the authority of the judiciary. And by the way, there was a request from the National Deputy Sphenov to the High Council of Justice for this.
ParlaMint-UA_2013-05-23-m0.u186	Ladies and gentlemen, are there warnings? Please, the People's Deputy of the Magnificent. Please. The Freedom Union.
ParlaMint-UA_2013-05-23-m0.u187	Oleg Knawiczyk, U.S.A. Freedom, First Deputy Head of the Committee on the Rule of Law and Justice. In contrast to the other issues that have been considered today, the matter has been considered by the Main Committee, and the Committee has examined all the grounds for the release of these judges. Therefore, the committee’s decision was to satisfy the submission of the High Council of Justice. So I propose that our faction vote. Thank you.
ParlaMint-UA_2013-05-23-m0.u188	I'm betting on a draft Supreme Council of Ukraine (registration number 2445-3) ruling on the release of judges. People's deputies, please vote. [[13:35:22]] For 314 Decision taken. Against-0, held-3, didn't vote-73. Let's see the factions. Tell me more.
ParlaMint-UA_2013-05-23-m0.u189	Supreme Council order, registration number 2445-5) on the release of judges. It's on general grounds. In accordance with article 126, paragraph 9, of the Constitution of Ukraine, the Supreme Council of Ukraine decides to release judges: The Supreme Economic Court of Ukraine of Ulitek Arkady Mikhajlovich - in connection with the application for resignation; The Court of Appeal of the Dnipropetrov Region of Karnauh Valentin Volodymyrovna - in relation to the application for resignation; the Court of Appeal of the Donetsk Region of Yuchenko Ludmila Prokopina - in connection with the application for resignation; the Court of Appeal of the Ternopil district of Stefluk Olen Dmitrovna, in connection with the application for resignation; the Court of Appeal of the Kharkiv Region of Cizichenka Volodymyr Mihajlovich, in connection with the application for resignation; The Sebastopol Economic Court of Maslov Zinaid Dmitrovna, in connection with the application for resignation; The Yellowwater City Court of the Dnipropetrov Region of the Podu Alexander Mikolaiovich - in connection with the application for resignation.
ParlaMint-UA_2013-05-23-m0.u190	Any word on the MPs? You don't? None. I'm betting on a bill from the Supreme Council of Ukraine (registration number 2445-5) on the release of judges. People's deputies are requested to vote, personally to the national MPs. [[13:37:10]] For 261 Against-0, held-4, didn't vote 122. It's been decided. The factions. Tell me more.
ParlaMint-UA_2013-05-23-m0.u191	Order 2104 on the release of judges. In accordance with article 126, paragraph 9, of the Constitution of Ukraine, the Supreme Council decides to release judges: the Court of Appeal of the Zakarpathian district of Maskarinec, Ivan Mikolaiovich, in connection with the application for resignation; Onosko Galina Mikhailovna, Court of Appeal of Kiev, in connection with the application for resignation; the Court of Appeal of the Odessa Region of Burned Yuri Alexanderovich, in connection with the application for resignation; the Court of Appeal of the Odessa Region of Fedorov Angel Eugene, in connection with the application for resignation; the Court of Appeal of the Poltava District of Copiture of Larissa Ivanovna, in connection with the application for resignation; the Court of Appeal of the Suman District of Bear Nina Ivanovna in connection with the application for resignation; the Court of Appeal of the Hmeljna District of Suslova Mikola Ilić, in connection with the application for resignation; Yaltin City Court of the Autonomous Republic of Crimea Rudenka Valerija Vasilovich, in connection with the application for resignation; The Bar District Court of the Chloticka Region of Aleksandr Stanislavovic, in connection with the application for resignation; The Apostolic District Court of the Dnipropetrov district of Petrenko Alla Pavlovna, in connection with the application for resignation; Bologna Marina Borissovna, the Free State Court of Dnipropetrov, in connection with the application for discharge at your own request; The Royal District Court of the Dnipropetrov Region of Soroko Boris Maximovic, in connection with the application for resignation; The Primorski District Court of Zaporozhye District of Kartoflicky Glib Viktorovich, in connection with the application for resignation; Vradiyevsky District Court of Mikolaiyev, Visatsky Mikhail Timofiowiovich, in connection with the application for discharge at your own request; The Kostopil district court of the district of Targonija Vjacheslav Aleksandrovič, in connection with the application for resignation; Radivil's District Court of the Ravenna district of Kohn Vitali Ilić, in connection with the application for resignation.
ParlaMint-UA_2013-05-23-m0.u192	Is there a warning in the National Deputies? None. I'm voting on the 2104a Bill on the release of judges. People's deputies, please vote. [[13:39:54]] For 258. Against - 0, held - 6, did not vote - 121. Decision taken. Do you have everyone?
ParlaMint-UA_2013-05-23-m0.u193	I've got everything. Thank you, distinguished national MPs.
ParlaMint-UA_2013-05-23-m0.u194	We thank you. The questions have been considered. Ladies and gentlemen, we have 20 minutes until recess. There is a proposal, we have agreed on the Harmonization Council to consider a draft law (registration number 2990) amending certain Ukrainian legislative acts (to implement the European Union's Action Plan on Liberalisation of the Visa Regime for Ukraine regarding the liability of legal persons). There is a proposal for a reduced procedure to be considered. People's deputies please identify themselves. Short. Let me get this straight. [[13:41:02]] For 215 Short-term procedure accepted. For 215, against 40, held – 9, did not vote – 121. Please, Kožemjakin Andriy Anatoliyovich is the chairman of the committee.
ParlaMint-UA_2013-05-23-m0.u195	Good afternoon, fellow Members, I'm acting as the drafter of the bill, as well as how. from the committee. The draft Law on Amendments to Certain Legislative Acts of Ukraine (for the implementation of the Liberalisation Action Plan by the European Union of the visa regime for Ukraine with regard to the liability of legal persons) is the amended version of Bill No.2032. At the international level, a number of international treaties, including the Criminal Convention on Combating Corruption, the European Council Convention on the Prevention of Terrorism, the International Convention on the Suppression of the Financing of Terrorism, which also includes Ukraine, provide for the duty of participating States to impose the responsibility of legal persons for the crimes provided for by these international legal acts. I'll briefly tell you how this bill is different from the government. The project introduces the quasi-criminal responsibility of legal persons, the application of administrative sanctions: fines, confiscation of property and liquidation of a legal person, but under the rules of criminal conduct. The safeguards for the protection of a legal person in criminal proceedings are much higher. This includes the mandatory involvement of a legal person, giving him all the evidence in the case. A more thorough judicial procedure. The possibility of accusing the actions of the prosecution and the court’s decision in a timely manner, and so forth. The possibility of criminal proceedings against legal persons is limited to crimes related to active bribery, abuse of influence, legalization of proceeds obtained by crime and terrorism. This will minimize the possible pressure on corporations through criminal measures. Thus, the present draft, unlike Government Law No.2032, clearly defines a series of crimes that, on behalf of and in the interests of a legal person, will be subject to criminal proceedings, which, in relation to a known one, refuse to engage in a particular type of activity. The main scientific and expert office has reached a negative conclusion on the bill, unfortunately. But the committee yesterday considered this issue and believes that its adoption will improve the mechanism of criminal regulation and recommends that the Supreme Council accept it as a basis and as a whole. Thank you for your attention and for your support.
ParlaMint-UA_2013-05-23-m0.u196	Ladies and gentlemen, is it necessary to discuss or put to the vote? I'm betting on the bill, I'm asking for the attention of the national MPs. I am voting on the draft Act (Registration No. 2990) amending certain legislative acts of Ukraine (for the implementation of the Action Plan on Liberalisation by the European Union of the Visa Regime for Ukraine with regard to the liability of legal persons) for adoption as a basis and as a whole. Please vote. [[13:45:03]] For 301 Against-0, held-0, didn't vote-84. Decision taken. I'm asking for factions. We met in factions. Dear National Deputies, we turn to the question in accordance with section 20 of the first article 85 of the Constitution of Ukraine and article 4-5 of the Ukrainian National Council for Television and Broadcasting, for consideration by the Supreme Council of Ukraine, the question of electing a member of the National Council of Ukraine for television and radio. It is suggested that I pay attention, the next order of consideration. Give it to the committee head in 10 minutes, Mikoli Tomenko. Ask your head in five minutes. For three minutes each faction is asked to speak from the MPs, and three minutes are requested by nonfractional deputies. Then make a rating vote with an electronic system in alphabetical order on a stand-alone basis. Following the completion of the rating vote, a vote should be taken on the appointment of a member of the National Council of Ukraine for Television. And the question of ending after the first successful vote is 226 votes in favour of the appointment of a candidate to the National Council for Television. So, a word for Mikola Volodymyrovich Tomenka's report, please.
ParlaMint-UA_2013-05-23-m0.u197	Good afternoon, dear colleagues. I would like to remind you that according to current legislation, unfortunately, the situation is that we can't make our own decisions, let's say we completely free the four. The Board asked me to clarify the situation, since today a joint decision by the President and the Supreme Council on mistrust is needed to completely change the composition of the National Council on Television and Radio. Today, we have the opportunity to change, or fill, the vacancy of only one post that arose in connection with the fact that a member of the National Broadcasting and Television Board, Mrs. Kaletnik, has become a national deputy and has duly filed an application for exemption at her own request. Our committee, in accordance with current legislation, announced a competition to replace this post on November 23, 2012. Appropriate nominations were submitted. The candidates were discussed, studying documents about them. And for today, the committee has decided to consider 12 candidates for one position. This morning, the head of the Supreme Council and the head of the committee were approached by a candidate named Pavelenko Viktorovich and asked if he would like to take it out of consideration. So at the moment, we have 11 candidates to consider the following procedure. Once again, Volodymyr Vasilovich said, once again, an understatement. So we're voting for the alphabet for all 11 candidates. And according to the voter rating, the candidate who won the most of the others is a successful vote. In order for this candidate to become a member of the National Television and Radio Board, he must obtain at least 226 votes in the second ballot. If this candidate doesn't get 226, we're going to make a decision, we can move on, there's a second, there's a third, or there's a whole new announcement of the competition. Regarding the position of the committee on specific candidates. Warnings were given to many of the candidates who had been discussed. But we've come to the next decision, which would be fair if we didn't sever a candidate, and the Supreme Council, as the highest legislative body, has approved a decision on a candidate. In particular, I wouldn't be honest if I didn't point out two warnings about two candidates that involved the traditional problem that we're dealing with. In particular, the candidates have a mandatory point in the Nakrad Act as an internship in the field of television for at least five years. In particular, warnings have been made regarding the candidate of Georgia's Victoria Volodymyrna, who has been working for the department of periodic press at the Institute of Journalism for the past 8 years. The fellow MPs were talking about that, obviously, a position like this can't be interpreted as a radio-space job. But once again, we've decided to put forward this candidacy so that you can make a final decision. And there was a warning in the same position to the candidate, Vaschuk Vladimir Petrovich, the director of the National Television and Radio Society, that his last activity was not as clear as five years of television work. But nevertheless, I've already pointed out, all of these 12 candidates, now let's rule out Pavelenko, 11 candidates have won no less than most members of the committee, and so we have no reason to withdraw them from the consideration of the Supreme Council. Vladimir Vasilovich, we can, in principle. Our idea was this, my function ended, we'd like not to ask questions, but even if every member of the Nacrada spoke for two or three minutes, the candidate for the Nacrada would say his position, and we would vote for our decision. If. Let the session room be defined. Because I think asking questions is even worse than listening to them.
ParlaMint-UA_2013-05-23-m0.u198	Is there a need to listen to candidates or not? I won't. I beg you, is there a question for Nikola Volodymyrovich? There is a question. Please sign up for a question at Mikola Volodymyrovich. Herman Hanna Mikolayevna, Party of Regions, please.
ParlaMint-UA_2013-05-23-m0.u199	Dear Nicholas Volodymyrovich, you are as a man of experience and, indeed, a person who is trusting you or you could not tell us who you think these candidates are the most professional and one who will not run in any of the offices before making decisions and will not say that until I consult with whoever I am, I will not make a decision. I think for all of us here your opinion will really weigh a lot.
ParlaMint-UA_2013-05-23-m0.u200	In general, I would like to make it clear that we have a clear prediction as to the four members of the National Council for their mission and representation. Remember, once we had this opportunity when we conditionally divided the fourth into two -- from most, two -- from the opposition, then we took that warning off and now we have a fourth from the Supreme Council without explaining the clear. I'm holding on to that point of view that how much in the National Television Council, the radio talk is not an easy situation to get rid of in a qualitative way. And we already know that there will be no resignation because the President approved the report. So I would like another member of the Nacradia to be a representative of the journalistic community, of the public, not a representative of a particular political power. You have information in your license plate, and let's say I don't have the right to campaign for someone right now, well, in general my position is that it would have to be a person representing or representing the National Association of Journalists or other important public institutions that are not.
ParlaMint-UA_2013-05-23-m0.u201	National MP Yavorowski, Fatherland faction, please.
ParlaMint-UA_2013-05-23-m0.u202	I would like to say that it will be fair to convey to the head of the Committee on Freedom of Speech in the past vocation, which the Party of the Regions has so brutally released from this office, Andrew Shevchenko.
ParlaMint-UA_2013-05-23-m0.u203	Please, Andrew Shevchenka.
ParlaMint-UA_2013-05-23-m0.u204	Thank you, Volodymyr Alexanderovich. I think it's a very important question that we're discussing today, and I urge my colleagues to focus their attention as much as possible. I would like to remind you that the National Council is understaffed, including the president's fault, who has not appointed a person to Nacrad for the third year, and remains vacant. The board of directors works at the border of the quorum, making it very difficult for her to work. And that's one of the reasons why we're seeing problems right now in the radio area. I strongly support the approach proposed by Mikola Volodymyrovich Tomenko. I think it makes sense to support the press community, civil society, the more important it is today. We see how hot the subject of freedom of speech is in the light of the latest events of May 18 and the events in the Cabinet of Ministers. I have a question for the head of the committee, for Mikola Tomenka. Have there been consultations with the President of Ukraine?
ParlaMint-UA_2013-05-23-m0.u205	Please, Mikola Volodymyrovich.
ParlaMint-UA_2013-05-23-m0.u206	Unfortunately, in the case of these two members of the National Council on Television and Radio, I have repeatedly addressed both the President and the PNDP on the issue that this is obviously a strategic issue, because it is said that if two people, if the President did not resign, two people could change the situation in a qualitative way. I think that the President's initiative to propose a person from the public and journalists' groups is authoritative, and the Supreme Council's initiative would have a significant impact on climate improvement in Nacrad. So far, we don't have information from the President, he hasn't offered a candidate. And we can, in turn, do this today by voting for one of the candidates, as I said, who represent here either the National Journalists Association or the other public organizations that we have listed here. And I don't know if we're going to get to that question today, of course, it's very important that we discuss in the professional environment the development strategy of television space, because these people need to understand what they're choosing.
ParlaMint-UA_2013-05-23-m0.u207	One last question. National MP Donny, please.
ParlaMint-UA_2013-05-23-m0.u208	Dear Mr. Mikolo, we see that there's monopolization in television and radio. And there were a lot of public activists, journalists, and even some politicians, who were involved in protecting their time at Channel Five and TV when they were taken through the courts of frequency. Now we know that the Nakrad licenses actually go back to increasing this monopolization, and that's what we've repeatedly raised in the journalistic environment when we go to digital television, this monopolization is going to go back to a new level. Has this problem been discussed with candidates now before the National Council, and what are their views on this issue?
ParlaMint-UA_2013-05-23-m0.u209	We had such a serious discussion at the committee meeting. Every member. Each candidate had the opportunity to express his or her point of view. I'm sorry, by the way, that we're looking at this at a bad time, everyone's in a hurry to take a break. It would be worth at least two or three minutes to listen to our candidates, because most of these people understand very well that there must be strategic changes in the issue of digital language in the activities of the Nakrad. I hope, in turn, that we will adopt a parliamentary hearing order on the strategy and development of the television area to make sure that in 2015 our citizens will see digital language. Vladimir Vasilovich, I'm being told that not everyone is. If we didn't listen to our candidates, the candidates. Maybe I'll just take 30 seconds to read those 11 candidates -- who submitted them so we can understand who we're voting for.
ParlaMint-UA_2013-05-23-m0.u210	Come on.
ParlaMint-UA_2013-05-23-m0.u211	Dear colleagues, I'm an alphabetist then.
ParlaMint-UA_2013-05-23-m0.u212	One minute. I'm working for 15 minutes.
ParlaMint-UA_2013-05-23-m0.u213	Dear colleagues, we give alphabetically so that we don't create any preferences. Georgievska Victoria Volodymyrovna is an associate professor of periodic press at the Institute of Journalism (given by the Communist Party deputy faction); Bullying Gennady Aleksandrovich is the national deputy of the sixth vocation (since the contest began after the sixth vocation, submitted by the MP for Reforms for the Future); Kaličenko Mihajlovich is the head of the television company "World Service for Ukrainian Broadcasting in Central Ukraine", National Association of Journalists; Khurt Kostin Semenović is the head of the board of Internews-Ukraine from the Association of Regional Publications of "Communication of Space"; Krainjak Yuri Olegovich is the CEO of Jurymax, the All-Ukrainian Teleradial Association of Ukraine; Nabrusko Viktor Ivanovich is an associate of the Institute of Journalism (reported by the National Association of Journalists); Osaulenko Taras Volodymyrovich is a associate of the Institute of Journalism (reported by the National Association of Journalists); Osaulenko Taras Volodymyrovich does not work temporarily, proposed by the Freedom MP; Pavelenko Viktorovich withdrew his candidacy; Pachuk Vladimir Petrovich, Head of the National Council for Television and Radio Broadcasting, All-Ukrainian Association of Children's Youth Television; Northern Alexander Volodymyrovich, Senior Professor of Radio Technology at Kiev State University of Information and Communication Technology, All-U.S. Television Association; Resničenko Valentin Mihajlovich, Director-General of the European Union Studio from the Independent Association of Radio Speakers. And Sokur Vitaly Vitaliyovich is temporarily out of work, from the Independent Radio Association. Thank you.
ParlaMint-UA_2013-05-23-m0.u214	Thank you. Have a seat. I'm asking the National Deputies to sign up for the factions. Two minutes will be enough from the factions? After a minute? Yes, they are. National Deputy Brigine, please, two minutes.
ParlaMint-UA_2013-05-23-m0.u215	Brigitte, Fatherland, Oblon. Please give the word to Mikola Knieżick.
ParlaMint-UA_2013-05-23-m0.u216	Please, Princess.
ParlaMint-UA_2013-05-23-m0.u217	Dear National Deputies! I'm asking for your attention! Because the question that we are considering right now is extremely important. The important thing is that in the commitments made by Ukraine to the European association to sign the association agreement, television broadcasting is extremely important. I'd like to give you a few moments' notice. First. Representatives of the opposition, representatives of independent public organizations, are not actually represented on the National Council for Television and Broadcasting today, as has always been the case. So I would ask you to be careful about those candidates that we are going to vote for today. For at least some parity, some protection for pluralism in our country, as our European partners repeatedly point out, has been maintained. The other one. I want to draw your attention to the fact that let us vote for those people who are experts. What does that mean? The TV and Radio Act makes it clear that I am only five years of experience in the field of television and radio broadcasting, which is a state - of - the - art work in radio organizations or in those companies. or in public authorities that regulate television broadcasting may be the basis for the choice. Today we have in the National Television and Radio Council a situation where there are people who have never worked before in the field of television. Ladies and gentlemen, I'd like to draw your attention to a very important matter. We're really in a situation where the radio area is monopolized by the clans. You are well aware that the previous National Council has been appointed and approved in most of its own personally by Mr. Khoroshkovsky, who is now abroad. You know very well how frequencies are distributed for digital language, which has affected both representatives or owners of companies that support opposition and those who support power. Among these people sitting here are a lot of real experts, people who can at least change this situation a little bit. Because by 2015 we have to switch to digital broadcasting, and because today this development of digital broadcasting is in fact.
ParlaMint-UA_2013-05-23-m0.u218	Finish up.
ParlaMint-UA_2013-05-23-m0.u219	So I ask you once again to take a closer look at this question, to be guided, not by a party principle, but by the principle, above all, by an expert. Thank you.
ParlaMint-UA_2013-05-23-m0.u220	Party of regions, Herman Hanna Mikolayevna, please.
ParlaMint-UA_2013-05-23-m0.u221	I support my colleague Princely for not being guided here by a party principle. It's a really serious thing because the National Council in the warehouse where it's currently working has actually discredited itself. And we have to give live blood, fresh blood, objective blood. Among the candidates that we see, all deserving people, all have experience and all are worthy to be on the National Council, and among them only one woman. I propose, because women in Ukraine have a great impact on the healing of the process, I propose that we stop at the candidature of Georgievsk to support it. And it will be right, and it will be wise, and it will be without party approaches. Thank you.
ParlaMint-UA_2013-05-23-m0.u222	Please, Company of Ukraine, Simonenko Peter Mikolayovich.
ParlaMint-UA_2013-05-23-m0.u223	Dear colleagues, speaking to you today, I would really like to ask you to support the candidature of Georgiev, recommended by the faction of the Company for election as a member of the National Council for Television and Radio. What is it? He has an appropriate education, and that's a positive one, he works in this field, and he knows it well. Secondly, she started working at a district television company and worked as a software editor. So at the bottom, she knows everything that has to do with the organization of work and, of course, the problems that our district, private or private are, let's say, state companies, but they're meant to be local television companies. Since 2004, she has worked at the Institute of Journalism. And here is a positive one, which I think is of enormous importance. As we work at the Journalist Institute, we are shaping footage for this area today and on many issues that concern us with you today when we talk about organizing the work of journalists, depending on the level of preparation of journalists. During her work at the Institute, she protected her candidate. She's working on her doctorate today. Docent. It raises those who are now starting to work as young people in an independent state in this area. He also knows district television companies well because it has been working with them for less than a year, and he knows practically all companies, both private and public. And what was an object for some, let's say, positive, maybe moments as to which candidature to support has no bearing on the clans. I'm asking you to back me up. Thank you.
ParlaMint-UA_2013-05-23-m0.u224	Freedom Union, Igor Miroshnichenko.
ParlaMint-UA_2013-05-23-m0.u225	Ladies and gentlemen, I would like to focus on the importance of the issue. The question of selecting a member of the National Council for Television and Radio is extremely important both for the development of information space and for overcoming the negative processes that today's information, television and radio spaces are taking place. But at the same time, a very important component of this issue is corruption. Because the National Council for Television and Radio today has become such a corrupt body for the acceptance and distribution of television and radio licenses, and there are people in this body who are essentially millionaires. This is a disgrace and this is a disgrace to this National Council. Therefore, it is vital to select a person who will control this national council on television and radio communication and will hold its hand. Question number two. Who can hold the hand of those delegated today to the National Council on Television and Radio? Obviously, these should be representatives of public organizations, perhaps uninvolved by the authorities and politicians of people with professional experience. Once again, you don't have to cross the facts. The Ukrainian law clearly provides for at least five years of professional work — in radio organizations or in professional groups. And if we're talking about the candidate that my predecessor Peter Simonenko just called, as well as the candidature that he's going to support, I understand, the Party of Regions, let's be frank. Mrs. Georgievska is Peter Simonck's press secretary. Mrs. Georgievska has only worked for two years in a television company and has no experience in five - year work in professional organizations, which is provided for by valid legislation. Mrs. Georgievsky has an autobiography that she made 13 mistakes. Are we going to re-elect the ignorant and the party people? [[Applause]] The ratings vote is supported by several candidates. Of course, we will support Taras Osaulenck, who is an expert television journalist.
ParlaMint-UA_2013-05-23-m0.u226	Finish up.
ParlaMint-UA_2013-05-23-m0.u227	Worked and experienced in international foreign television companies, as well as the National Council on Television and Broadcasting in Administrative Offices. But at the same time, there are a lot of other representatives of social organizations that we share. I urge that we be guided, not by a political principle, but by a professional question. Thank you.
ParlaMint-UA_2013-05-23-m0.u228	I'm asking you, Vitaly Klitschka Faction, who's speaking? Give me your name.
ParlaMint-UA_2013-05-23-m0.u229	Raupov Rustam, Vitaly Klicka Faction. Our position on this issue is that, in principle, our position is that we, like our opposition partners, will vote for representatives of public organizations and associations. It's enough to delegate this very important organ to political preferences, because this idea has discredited itself. It is important that a member of the National Council should have his personal and professional position, which would be adjusted, first and foremost with the current legislation of Ukraine. But by his professional actions, he would have proved his position. Unfortunately, it happens the other way around. So it's a very important role and place for the National Council now in terms of transitioning us to digital language. It is very important that the National Council also directs the construction of today’s television and radio regulations. Therefore, our principle will be that we will support representatives of public organizations and associations. Thank you for your attention.
ParlaMint-UA_2013-05-23-m0.u230	Yes, Your Honor, Your Honor, I'd like your attention. Prepare for the vote, because we will vote many times. I'm going to call the names, the names, the parents, and you, please, define yourself by voting. Declare that those who walk there may enter the hall, and let us work. I'm betting on the vote of the candidature of Georgia's Victoria Volodymyrna. It's a rating vote. Please vote. [[14:12:13]] For 206 Yes. I'm putting in a bid for a rating vote for Kalinicko Mikhailo Mikhajlovich. Please. [[14:12:39]] For-69 Yes. I'm betting on a rating vote for Qurt Kostin Semenović. Please vote. [[14:13:03]] For-137 I'm betting on a rating vote for Krajnik Yuri Olegovich. [[14:13:25]] For-50 I'm going to run for the ranking vote of Nabrusko Viktor Ivanovich. [[14:13:48]] For the 180. I'm running for the Osaulenko Taras Volodymyrovich. [[14:14:10]] For-138 I'm putting Pashuk Vladimir Petrovich on the vote. [[14:14:33]] For-36 I'd like to bet on a rating vote by Northman Alexander Volodymyrovich, please. [[14:14:55]] For a hundred and And I'm running for the rating vote, Sokur Vitaly Vitalyovich. Please vote. [[14:15:21]] For-7. Honorable deputies. Please turn on Tomenka's microphone.
ParlaMint-UA_2013-05-23-m0.u231	Vladimir Vasilovich, I think for technical reasons, we still have a list of Zdirko Hennadyy Aleksandrovich, Ukrainian national deputy for the sixth vocation. We have to vote for the purity of the experiment, too, because he's here.
ParlaMint-UA_2013-05-23-m0.u232	What's your name?
ParlaMint-UA_2013-05-23-m0.u233	Bullying Gennady Alexanderovich.
ParlaMint-UA_2013-05-23-m0.u234	Good luck. Don't get involved. I get it. What's not here? Why isn't the name here? Yes, dear colleagues, I'm betting on a rating vote for Zdirko Hennady Alexanderovich. Please vote. [[14:16:42]] For-13. So, respectable colleagues. More Reznichenko? I'm betting on the rating vote of Resnichenko Valentin Mihajlovich. What's not here? How do you prepare? Please vote. All of them now? [[14:17:21]] For -8 I make a note to the Secretariat and to the committee leaders: two names are missing. So, honourable colleagues, now we're going to the final vote, now I'm going to say, and here they say they voted for Georgiev, not personally. Who? [[B in m in s a l in]] Honorable deputies. I'm begging you now. I'm asking you to vote in person right now, watch out. It's a deal. [[B in m in s a l in]] The first one will be. Let's finish the question. Now. Now the final vote, let's vote. Come on, don't get mixed up, I heard you! [[B in m in s a l in]] Well, now we have the final vote and we'll figure it out. [[B in m in s a l in]] Come on, turn on the mic. Mohnik. Microphone on the stand, one minute. Please declare. [[B in m in s a l in]] Please.
ParlaMint-UA_2013-05-23-m0.u235	Andrew Mohnik, All-Ukrainian Freedom Union. We don't have a personal vote, well, according to Mr. Dryo's report, because I don't know all the deputies from the Party of Regions, it's Demiscan, who's voting for another deputy, sitting next to Yooff. The vote is recorded during the vote in favour of Georgievsk.
ParlaMint-UA_2013-05-23-m0.u236	What's the offer? By whom? First of all? [[B in m in s a l in]] Listen, how much to scream?Oh, my God! The announcement of tomorrow's session is closed. At 16 o'clock, we'll vote. Have a good one, all of you!
