ParlaMint-UA_2013-10-25-m0.u1	Good morning, distinguished national deputies, invited guests of the Supreme Council of Ukraine! I'm asking the people's deputies to prepare for registration. Turn on the "Race" system. [[10:00:12]] A total of 346 national deputies were registered. The morning session of the Supreme Council of Ukraine is open. I'm asking for your attention! Today is the birthday of the Ukrainian National Deputies: Anatolia Stepanovich Griesenka, Anton Mikolaiovich Dorokhov and Boris Viktorovich Kolesnikova. [[Applause]] Ladies and gentlemen, on Sunday, October 27, the Day of Automobiles and Roadways is celebrated. Let us welcome all road transport workers, the Ukrainian road economy with a professional holiday, and wish them good health, happiness, well - being, energy, and success in their difficult work. Honorable National MPs. I'm all yours now. We'll mark your contribution to the victory of Dynamo. That's what I'm talking about. Dear National Deputies! People's deputies came to me and asked me where the Prime Minister of Ukraine was. The Prime Minister of Ukraine – Thursday, Friday and Saturday – works in Crimea There are many meetings and. [[B in m in s a l in]] No, I'm telling you where the Prime Minister is. He's here and he's working, he's not in Kiev. Next. Deputy Prime Minister of Ukraine Boyko Yuri Anatoliyovich is on his way to Belarus. You know, two days, the President of Ukraine is in Blyorusia and he's with a number of ministers. Is Vice Prime Minister Wilkul there? He must be. Next. Vice Prime Minister of Ukraine Grishenko Kostunica Ivanovich is a vacation from October 21st. Agrarian politics and food Minister Mikola Volodymyrovich is on vacation. First Deputy Minister of Agrarian Politics Ivan Yuriovich Bisuk. Yes. Interior Minister Zharchenko Vitali Juryovich is on his way. [[B in m in s a l in]] First Deputy Interior Minister Victor Borisovich Dubovic present. Minister of Income and Congregations Klimenko Alexander Viktorovich is present. Minister of Ecology and Natural Resources Proscurakov is present. Minister of Economic Development and Trade Igor Mikolaiovich Prosololov is. I'm going to finish, I'm going to announce, and then, as I have to give you my word, I'm going to give you my word. You will express your thoughts and decide whether we work or act. The Minister of Energy and Coal Industry is a shipping company in Luxembourg. The present Deputy Minister of Energy Sergei Mikhailovich Czech, is. The Minister for Foreign Affairs of Kojar is also a shipping company, Belarus. Olefir's Andrew Volodymyrovich is present. The Minister of Culture is the shipping of the Slovak Republic out of 24 Deputy Minister of Culture Viktor Stepanovich Malurka is. Minister of Youth and Sports Ravil Safovich Safiulin is always the minister. Next. Lebedev's Minister of Defense is shipping to Croatia 23-25. First Deputy Oliver Alexander, is Mikolayovich. Minister of Education Dmitry Volodymyrovich Tobacco is. Health Minister Richter's Raisa Vasilivna is. Minister of Industrial Policy Mikhailo Konstantinovich Kralenko Minister of Regional Development Dark Hennadi Pavlovich is a expedition. First Deputy Minister present Gregory Mikhailovich Semchuk. Is it? Yes. Social Policy Minister Natalia Yuriovna Královska is. Don't shout. Who's yelling like that? Louder than I am. Minister of Finance Kolobov Yuri Volodymyrovich is the ship of Luxembourg. Is Anatoly Ivanovich Merkowski the First Deputy Minister of Finance? Yes. Justice Minister Lukash is. First Deputy Minister of the Cabinet of Ministers Vladislav Valeriyovich Zabarsky is. And the first deputy head of State Treasury, Danevich Alexander Stepanovich, is. I'm asking who wants it. What's going on for three minutes? Don't waste time. Retirement reform, we will consider. I'd like two minutes, Kaida National Deputy.
ParlaMint-UA_2013-10-25-m0.u2	Thank you. Thank you. Dear fellow MPs! This disgraceful phenomenon, now called Ukraine’s government, really shows its face and shows its attitude toward the deputy corps and the highest representative legislative body in Ukraine. When half the government is not in place, we should feel that it is a government in exile because they have all drifted apart. Where's the Prime Minister? We're told he's in Crimea now. What, did you go to the velvet season? What is this attitude? Does he work in Crimea? What are we doing here?Oh, my God! We demand that he fly here immediately, let him fly. And he's in front of the deputies! Because today's most important question is not paying wages, it's pension delays, it's not paying in treasury accounts. This is the disgraceful fact that is now present in all of Ukraine when pensioners are standing next to ATMs and cannot get their pensions. As for Azar, he is resting in Crimea. What is this attitude? Where's the Home Secretary? Vladimir Vasilovich, you said that the Minister of Internal Affairs will be here after the events near Kyivrad. Why did the tart happen here, the first deputy?Oh, my God! Minister, over here! They didn't know we had an hour of questions to the government today? Have you been on a mission? Did the Crimes Break Up? When we had to sign the solar agreements, Azarov flew to Lviv after the "Government Day", Stavitsky, sorry, on a plane to Ivano-Frankovsky. And now they're on a mission. I'm telling you again, I've been there all the time. Besides, if there's no Home Secretary today, I'm reporting 28 numbers on Monday, 11 o'clock, we're taking care of the Ministry of Internal Affairs. We invite all the deputies, and to this community to go to the press, we invite everyone to come under the walls of the Ministry. Well, first of all.
ParlaMint-UA_2013-10-25-m0.u3	Thank you. I beg you, there are willing, two minutes, the People's Party of the People's Deputies of Hanna Herman. [[B in m in s a l in]] I know you don't. I'll give you my word out of order, and I'll give you my word. Please, Hanna Herman.
ParlaMint-UA_2013-10-25-m0.u4	I'd like to calm down the expressive boys from Lviv and tell them that there are people in the government who make decisions. We, most of all, are not in positions, we, the main thing, are to have people present who make decisions. And there are such people in the government's bed. And the fact that you're not letting us spend the day of the government, but you're trying to take care of yourself and your hystericals for another day, shows that you don't understand that those government officials who are abroad are working on the question of preparing for the signing of the Association Agreement with the European Union. You always put us in that place. So calm down, and let's work. That's enough of the lion's hysterics.
ParlaMint-UA_2013-10-25-m0.u5	Thank you. The gap is over. In accordance with Act 22 9 of the Regulations of the Supreme Council of Ukraine, we conduct an hour of questions to the Government. The topic of "hours of questions to the Government" is defined by the Conciliation Council. Members of the Cabinet of Ministers of Ukraine will answer questions about the implementation of local budgets and the repayment of arrears. These are the main issues that we agreed on at the Conciliation Council. All the MP factions, except for the faction of the All-Ukrainian union of Fatherland, have notified the Cabinet of Ministers in advance of the questions that will be asked during the "hour of questions to the Government". The questions posed by the MPs will be answered by Anatoly Ivanovich Merkovsky, First Deputy Minister of Finance, and Minister of Social Policy, as you requested, Natalia Jurijovna Královska. And that's the order. Take the 15 minute proposal to the First Deputy Minister of Finance and the Minister of Social Policy to answer the questions you have asked in writing from the MPs. That'll be 30 minutes. And 30 minutes in the National Deputies will be able to register, ask questions to the members of the government you think you need, and hear the government's response. So I invite you to the rostrum of the First Deputy Minister of Finance, Anatoly Ivanovich Merkowski, to answer the written questions in 15 minutes.
ParlaMint-UA_2013-10-25-m0.u6	Please. Dear Volodymyr Vasilovich, distinguished national deputies! Let me inform you about the issues that have come from the MP factions at the Ministry of Finance. All questions came to the government, 37 of them regarding the Ministry of Finance's jurisdiction, 15 questions. Of these, three are from the Party of the Regions, four are from the political party OF THE SHOCK, six are from the All-Ukrainian Freedom Union, two are from the Communist Party. In view of the time constraints and the common theme of many questions, the answers will be given in general. I'd like to say about macropredictation. At the time of the 2013 draft budget, Ukraine's economic and social development forecast for 2013 was realistic and was in line with the latest trends in the global economy and the assessment of experts. Since the beginning of 2013, however, there has been a continuation of last year’s negative trends in the development and slow recovery of the world economy. Saving instability in world financial markets and worsening trends and declining demand in world commodity markets In view of the above, international financial organizations have constantly reviewed their forecasts. Yes, during the current year, the International Monetary Fund has reviewed the decline of four times in January, April, July, and October from 3.6 percent to 2.9 percent. Today there is instability in the world’s commodity markets and financial markets, due in particular to the indemnity of the debt problems in Eurosona, the final uncertainty about the budget and the US debt, the time frame for the stimulus of the US economy by the federal reserve system and the preservation of political tensions in the Middle East. Thus, external factors have made it worse to achieve the goals set by the government for this year. With regard to the 2013 budget, special attention was also given to the locals as an integral part of today’s report. The total resources of local budgets increased by 28.1 billion or 14.7 percent compared to 2012. Local budgets in the state’s budget grew by 3.4 percent. During the year, a number of measures have been taken by the government to balance local budgets. Yes, inter-budget transfers are listed at the proper time. During January and September, there were 83.7 billion dollars. Including, the full scope of the assignments lists the grant of compensation and additional grants, namely 43.8 billion dollars. Within the scope of the commitment, social subsidies amount to $35.8 billion, or 95.1 percent, for assignments. Other subsidies are 2.2 billion dollars, 98.3 percent for assignments. Unreceived by daily standards, the amount of compensation grants is counted by treasury at the expense of a single treasury account over time, in the first numbers of the month, not up to 10, as provided for in the Budget Code. In total, 10.2 billion dollars or 23.8 percent of the 9 - month grants were listed. In order to provide the financial resources of the local budgets for the approval of the staff member's salary at the level of 851 bracelets, an approximation of the grant from December to April-September amounting to 1.1 billion dollars has been made. The State Treasury authorities, as of October 1, of this year, have granted 28.1 thousand loans to cover temporary cash breaks in full and in full pay for the work of budget officials. The total amount of such loans was 37.6 billion dollars. During April and July, these loans were given in volume, more marginal. Loans on October 1st amount to 2.9 billion dollars. That is, most of the local budgets were based on such loans. In addition, medium - term loans are granted in accordance with the Budget Code, which are linked to the failure of the first basket’s income calculations. Only 192 loans have been made for 2.5 billion dollars. This year, too, there was an increase of 0.8 billion dollars in government support for regional development. So this is an increased Regional Development Fund at the expense of other equity expenditures. With a view to carrying out the work at the right time and putting into service launches, the cost of state support for regional development from September to December for the previous months has been increased to almost 800 million dollars. In addition, a decision has been taken by the government on 9 October this year to increase the amount of an additional grant of compensation to finance local budgets for an amount of 1 billion dollars to provide for local budgets. In order to make timely payments, I or II of the group helped care for the disabled as a result of a mental disorder following a government decision of October 9, as well as increased subsidies to local budgets of 244 million dollars. I would like to point out that, according to the Constitution of Ukraine, local budgets are independent. Therefore, the question of the filling of local budgets, the search for additional sources of income to local budgets, including through the detinction of the economy, should also be addressed by local authorities. An important factor affecting the level of local budget security is also taking steps to identify the network of budgetary institutions capable of providing quality services at European standards. Today's network of budgetary institutions is imperfect, it doesn't take into account the trend towards change and population and the needs of the region, and it doesn't match European socio-cultural financing experience. We've done a comparative analysis of Ukraine's budgetary and network performances with average European values, and we can say that, for most of these indicators, Ukraine is lagging behind both the teachers and the doctors in terms of European standards. During. [[B in m in s a l in]] I'm basically. As far as social spending is concerned. The main priority of the budget in recent years has been to raise basic social standards and guarantees for the population. Compared to 2009, the average minimum wage increased by 79.3 percent, compared to 2009, the official salary of budget workers increased by 56.3 percent, the subsistence minimum increased by 74.3 percent over the last four years. And these figures were happening in the background of low inflation, and all of this growth was budgeting. I would like to say that according to the IMF methodology, the cost of work and social security, including pension payments and social insurance funds, was 29.3 GDP in 2012. According to recent IMF figures, Ukraine holds third place among Central and Eastern European and SND countries. I mean, the government doesn't pay proper attention to the socio-economic costs. As far as paying the salaries of the budget staff is concerned. Thanks to the government’s measures in 2012, salary payments for December 2012 were provided on a timely basis, and on January 1, the loan owed only 0.6 per cent of the monthly salary fund of 69 million dollars to the monthly salary fund of 9.3 billion dollars. This debt was for the second half of December. The increase in wage expenditure in 2013 was 5.8 percent compared to last year. And I wanted to emphasize once again that inflation is now negative 0.6. So actually, all the nominal wage growth is a real increase in such social pay. In the case of treasury services for local budgets. Payments by government authorities are made in accordance with the instructions of the National Bank on Ukraine’s non-cash accounts in national currency for 30 calendar days. Costs and recipients of funds are primarily met and time-stressed to ensure that protected expenditure articles are implemented. In the event of a full repayment of the registered financial obligations of the protected articles, expenses for unprotected articles are incurred in a regulated manner. Thus, in 9 months of the current year, local budgets spent $140.2 billion or 11.1 billion more dollars and 8.6 percent more compared to the same period last year. According to the unprotected articles that are the subject of today’s discussions, the cost was 13.3 billion dollars, 1.6 percent or 14 percent more in fact last year. Thus, it cannot be said that unprotected expenditure articles are not financed, an increase of 14 percent. In doing so, the weight of unprotected expenditure articles increased by 0.5 percent in the overall fund. The cash expenditure of the general fund increased by nine months, according to local budgets: by Donetsk Region, 6.1 per cent, by Lviv Region, 8.6 per cent, by Poltav region.
ParlaMint-UA_2013-10-25-m0.u7	Anatoly Ivanovich, one minute! [[B in m in s a l in]] You'll write a question. Don't write questions, they'll answer, and you'll ask. [[B in m in s a l in]] You wrote the question -- he answers the question. Please, come on. Do you have anything else in common, or will you answer the question?
ParlaMint-UA_2013-10-25-m0.u8	That's the question coming, I'm answering the question.
ParlaMint-UA_2013-10-25-m0.u9	Is that a question? Let's do two more minutes, and let's give you a chance to ask a question.
ParlaMint-UA_2013-10-25-m0.u10	According to the city of Donetsk, the amount of unprotected expenditure financing increased by 23 percent last year, 79.9 percent for the city of Lviv, 88.1 percent for the city of Chernigov. The average percentage of growth in Ukraine, I have already stressed, is 13.9 percent of unprotected expenditure. With regard to another indicator that characterizes local budgets, it can be said that in 9 months the deposit volume increased by 1.2 billion dollars, i.e. from a single treasury account, 1.2 billion dollars were reported in bank accounts. The extent of the financial resources at the disposal of local authorities is affected by the increase in receivables. It has increased in local authorities by 162 million dollars or 513 dollars. and made 513 million dollars. With regard to the suspension of operations with the budget costs of treasury agencies, this is the requirement of Article 117 and 120 of the Budget Code, and in the first half of the year, operations of 2.65 thousand units were suspended. That's why it's happening. Is that what it takes? Because the results of the audit of the financial inspection authorities revealed violations in the first half of the year of 655 million dollars at the expense of local budgets. With regard to the acquisition of motor vehicles and other equipment. Decision No. 943 of 22 October 2008 of the Cabinet of Ministers defines the measures that can be taken to make use of the funds that may be used in the event of a deficit in such funds. And it prohibits the acquisition of equipment and repairs, unless the building is in an emergency condition or an administrative facility. As for the pension fund figures, during October 23rd, the pension fund received 10.2 billion dollars, from the state budget we allocated 200 billion dollars additionally to these revenues, and in addition to the current revenues, there was a further loan to the pension fund of 1.1 billion dollars at the expense of the resources of the EAFRD. Social funds during this period, in October, amounted to 1.6 billion dollars, all of which are listed as social funds to make social payments. As far as social benefits are concerned, there is a basic reason for today’s provision. whether it has affected the imbalance of the single treasury account – it is diverting the funds of the UNHCR from lending to the Pensionan.
ParlaMint-UA_2013-10-25-m0.u11	Thank you. Have a seat. Natalia Juryovna, MPs are requested. There's a question in your speeches. Call it that. The answer is yes. The answer is yes. Now you're going to do your report -- I'm going to give the MPs an opportunity to sign up, and to whom will the questions be, you're going to call who's question, what's question, and there's going to be an answer for the Cabinet. Please, Natalia Yuriovna.
ParlaMint-UA_2013-10-25-m0.u12	Dear Volodymyr Vasilovich, distinguished national deputies! There were 32 questions from four parliamentary factions for the "hour of questions to the government" from the Ministry of Social Policy. The faction of the Party of the Regions is 6, Freedom is 16, Impact is 8, Communist Party is 2. It has to be noted that the questions of the various MP factions essentially relate to the same directions, and so I want to report on the same three blocks. The first is about debt from wages. The second is about state aid payments, pension payments, social insurance payments, and the third about employment. As for the first block, debt from salary. Respectable national MPs, the repayment of arrears from wages, which has been granted in recent years, have been defined by the government as one of the most important tasks. Let me briefly point out what measures are being taken to reduce the debt from wages. First. An inter-ministerial commission is working for the Ministry of Social Policy to monitor debt repayments. Since the beginning of this year, three extended sessions of the commission have been held with the participation of central and local executive authorities. There were also five selector meetings on debt repayment. The last meeting took place on September 13 under the chairmanship of the First Deputy Prime Minister of Ukraine. The issue of repayment of wages was discussed five times at a meeting of the Cabinet of Ministers of Ukraine. The other one. In particular, it should be noted that the Government has adopted a Regulation approving the conditions for granting State guarantees in 2013 to ensure the fulfilment of the obligations of the State firm Ucroborinprom, which provides for the provision of State guarantees to ensure that the company receives 300 million sums of the company's debt and wages. Third. In addition, a draft Cabinet of Ministers Decision on measures to improve the efficiency of the use of the export-import potential of the Danube region has been prepared to speed up the repayment of the wages of the Ukrainian Danube steaming industry. Four. The Ministry has drafted a bill amending Ukraine's individual laws to meet the requirements of employed workers as a result of the insolvency of employers, the essence of which is to implement a mechanism to guarantee payment of debts to employees of the bankrupt enterprises. Such a bill is now accepted by the central executive authorities. Fifth. The police prepared a plan of action to speed up the repayment of wages. The appropriate government order project is now in agreement with the central executive authorities and will be submitted for approval by the Cabinet of Ministers of Ukraine in the near future. Six. And I'm asking for your attention on this. On October 9, the government allocated 2 billion 100 million dollars for the timely payment of salaries to budget workers on the spot. Seven. The work of the State Department has intensified the work of the State Department and now the work of the Inspectorate is focused on identifying the reasons for the rise in wages and the use of measures against the guilty. Changing approaches already yields the right results. According to operational data for nine months of 2013, 4 thousand checks were carried out by government labour inspectors on salary payments. According to the debtors' checks, 2,000 administrative delinquency protocols have been drawn up and transferred to the court. In general, 2,000,800 borrowers were involved in administrative responsibility. In the course of the survey, 1 000 400 applications were made to owners to attract managers to disciplinary responsibility. One and a half thousand test materials have been transferred to law enforcement authorities that identify the pattern of the crime provided for in article 175 of the Ukrainian Criminal Code. As a result, 680 materials were submitted to the Single State Register of Trials. In general, government inspectors in the business sector have paid off, in whole or in part, the remuneration of 273,000 employees for 636 million dollars. As of March of this year, we have a debt reduction trend. Yes, according to operational information, as of October 21, 2013, wages decreased by 132 million dollars or 12 percent compared to March 1, 2013. It should be noted that by October 21, the number of companies in debt had decreased by 536 compared to the beginning of the year. According to operational information, there is no current debt in the budget area. And to that end, the government has allocated an additional 2 billion 100 million dollars so that by the end of the year there will be no debt in the budget area. As of March of this year, debt in utilities has decreased by 26 percent. And now it's 46 million dollars. Private debt accounts for 581 million dollars or 60 percent of the total debt in Ukraine. Debt from employees' salaries in bankruptcy is 397 million dollars or 41 percent of total debt in Ukraine. Since the beginning of the year, debt from wages has been repaid, which has been allowed in recent years to amount to 232 million dollars. At the same time, a new debt arose during the year. First of all, on the basis of the company's debt, like the airline Aeroworld. The issue of airline debt was being discussed at a government meeting, and this is already being addressed by law enforcement agencies. Ladies and gentlemen, with this opportunity, I invite you to participate in the meeting of the Inter-ministerial Commission on Debt Recovery, which will take place today, October 25, in the Ministry of Social Policy. There we will be able to discuss the issue in more detail. As for the second cluster of issues, state aid payments, social insurance payments and pension payments. To start with, some data in the 9 months of the current year. The social expenditure of the State Budget General Fund amounts to over 213 billion dollars, 12 percent or 24 billion dollars more than the corresponding period of last year. The General Fund of the State Budget for Transfers to the Pension Fund was funded on time and 100 percent in excess of 62 billion dollars. The budget and financial support cost 96 billion dollars. In nine months, subsidies to support orphans increased by 25 percent. Payments for orphans and children deprived of parental care in foster homes and cash payments to parents amounted to 365 million dollars. One-time payout for heroin women is 256 million dollars. One payment to war veterans by May 5 — 821 million dollars. Money payments and benefits to black people amount to 2 billion dollars. Sanitary and veterinary treatment for war veterans is 73 million dollars. Housing for military and internationalist soldiers is 37 million dollars. The rehabilitation of people with disabilities is 530 million dollars. In total, the social cost of nine months was about 311.5 billion dollars. And that's 12 percent more than last year. As a whole, the Ministry of Social Policy in 2013 for 26 budget programmes in the State budget of Ukraine under the general budget of the State Budget provides expenditure of 88.4 billion dollars, which is 33.9 per cent higher than in the previous year. For January-September of this year, there are 66 billion 500 million dollars, which on October 1st are funded by the State Treasury. With regard to payment of various types of State aid. We're constantly monitoring the state welfare payments because they're given to the most vulnerable citizens, parents who care for children under 3 years of age, children with disabilities, children with disabilities from childhood, under-privileged people, etc. In the current year, the government budget provides a target subsidy of 40 billion dollars to help families with children and low-income families, children with disabilities, and children with disabilities. The Ministry of Finance of Ukraine is the principal manager of these funds. A targeted subsidy of 486 million dollars to help orphans and children deprived of parental care, cash provision to parents and foster parents, social services in foster homes and foster families. The Ministry of Social Policy is the principal manager of these funds. To provide subsidies and benefits for the payment of housing and utility services, 7 billion 400 million dollars. The Ministry of Finance is the principal manager of these funds. Payments of the state aids are made at the proper time, and there is no debt on the 22nd of October. To pay for October’s state social assistance, regions are listed in the entire amount needed — 3 billion 338 million dollars by October 22. Payments directly to recipients will be made by the end of this month. Since the beginning of the year, more than 32 billion bracelets have been diverted from the state budget for these purposes. That's almost 5 billion 200 million dollars more than last year. It is estimated that for 9 months of the current year, there are 4 billion 468 million dollars worth of aid and subsidies, which is 60 percent and a half percent of the projected funds. There is no debt on these programs. Dear national MPs, in difficult economic conditions, unlike many countries, we have managed not only to preserve the previous dimensions of social guarantees and payments, but also to increase them slightly for the most vulnerable categories of citizens. And I thank the Ukrainian National Deputies, who adopted two Ukrainian laws this year to carry out the social initiatives of the President of Ukraine, which allowed us to strengthen the protection of the most vulnerable citizens of our country. The first is to increase state aid for children with disabilities under care and care. And the second is to increase the amount of the child disability allowance and to a very high degree of health loss. These increased aids are already being paid at the proper time, and there is no debt. As for insurance payments from social insurance funds. Dear national deputies, in total, from the beginning of the year and October 21 with social insurance funds, were paid to insured persons 19 billion 172 million dollars, 2 billion 132 million dollars more in insurance than on October 21, 2012. Despite the fact that executive directorates of social insurance funds are not in line with the Ministry of Social Policy, they are subordinated to the government of funds formed by representatives of trade unions, employers and central executive authorities. The Ministry of Social Policy has entrusted them with the task of ensuring that appropriate payment orders are given to treasury bodies for the payment of various assistance to insured persons from the social insurance funds budget. An analysis carried out by the Ministry indicated that there are no outstanding payments for September 21st 2013 from social insurance funds of the following types: monthly and one-time insurance payments for workers and their families for September, pregnancy and maternity payments for September, health care for disabled persons for September, funeral for September, partial financing for children's sports schools. Measures are currently being taken on these payments for October of the current year. In particular, I would like to point out that all applications for pregnancy and childbirth payments made to the Social Insurance Fund from temporary loss of employment until October 1st are funded today. Ladies and gentlemen, you know that the economic situation is not only in Ukraine but also in the world as a whole. And on Wednesday, during his speech at the government meeting, the Prime Minister pointed out that unfortunately. In particular sectors of the economy and problems, and they kind of limit the budget's capabilities. And as a result, in October, there were cases where individual payments had not been made in time, and the Prime Minister had been tasked with resolving the issue. Yes, yesterday, a college was held by the cosmopolitans to discuss, among other things, insurance payments from social insurance funds. In the college of executive directors of the funds, both in the center and in our seats, they received a number of assignments. In particular: day-to-day fundraisers from payment orders, follow up. For other payments to be made only after all payments have been made on insurance payments, there can be no other options today. In addition, the State has been instructed to control employers so that they can pay their hospital and pregnancy and childbirth expenses on time. In addition, yesterday I also took the initiative of the government to recognize the protected expenses of all insurance payments made.
ParlaMint-UA_2013-10-25-m0.u13	Thank you, Natalia Yuriovno, sit down. Dear National Deputies! [[B in m in s a l in]] Ladies and gentlemen, I ask you to sign up for the question. I'm asking MPs to sign up. One minute to question, two minutes to answer. Please. Don't yell, just write it down. The Fatherland faction, National Deputy Xenius Leapina, please.
ParlaMint-UA_2013-10-25-m0.u14	I give the word Arsenius Yatsenyuk, please.
ParlaMint-UA_2013-10-25-m0.u15	We give the word Arsenius Yatsenyuk. Please.
ParlaMint-UA_2013-10-25-m0.u16	Addressing our so-called government. We see that today in Ukraine there is a very dramatic economic situation: minus 17 billion dollars in gold reserves, zero growth in the Ukrainian economy. Minus industrial output growth. Over the next year, our government is hiding something that is missing about $14 billion to cover the government budget deficit, let alone the current year. I have a question for the government. How can it be, Mr. First Vice Prime Minister, that measures to rehabilitate children with child cerebral palsy are funded by 0.3 percent, up to 225,000 dollars? But you spent 120 million dollars on the flight of Yanukovich, Ribak, and Azarov. Do you have an elementary conscience or not?
ParlaMint-UA_2013-10-25-m0.u17	Arseny Petrovich, just don't take me into the company or lie to me. I don't fly anywhere, but when I fly, for your money, don't lie to the people anymore. [[B in m in s a l in]] Don't lie, I'm telling you, I'm not flying anywhere, I'm working with you in the hall. Do you understand what I told you? You don't have to lie. You get me, don't you? I'm asking the Minister of Health for an answer.
ParlaMint-UA_2013-10-25-m0.u18	Dear national MPs, the question that is now being raised, has no basis. As for the government program, which is approved, it is funded regularly and we do not have citizens' requests for underfunding today. We also have contact with private centres that without government money can raise children. And it is this approach that has reduced the number of complications today when children are diagnosed with this diagnosis. Thank you for your attention.
ParlaMint-UA_2013-10-25-m0.u19	Freedom Union, Andrew Mohnik Please.
ParlaMint-UA_2013-10-25-m0.u20	Please pass the word to Andrew Illenko.
ParlaMint-UA_2013-10-25-m0.u21	Andrew Illenko, faction of the All-Ukrainian Freedom Union. I have a question for Prime Minister Azarov. Turn the microphone on on the stand, please.
ParlaMint-UA_2013-10-25-m0.u22	I have a question to Prime Minister Azarov, who is not here today, who is apparently hiding in Crimea now from the result of an improvement that has been destroying Ukraine for 3.5 years. And so I have a question to the Minister of Internal Affairs, Zacharychenk, who is not here today, though he was supposed to be in parliament today, but apparently he also does not want to be responsible for the actions of his subordinates, who were two days ago under the Kyivrad. Because what happened there is another example of a cynical violation of the law, a violation of the Constitution, a violation of the Act on the Status of the People's Deputy of Ukraine, when Ukrainian national deputies of the militia in Ham's form, using physical force, were not allowed to enter Kyivrad's premises, any longer. And then I have a question for the First Deputy Minister of Internal Affairs, who's going in here right now to explain why this is happening? Who will be responsible? And how much longer will the law enforcement officers, including the Berkut Special Branch, be the political storm troopers of the Party of the Regions? And who gives the command not to miss the National Deputies? And who covers the usurpation of power in the city of Kiev? Thank you.
ParlaMint-UA_2013-10-25-m0.u23	Thank you. We'll pass on your question to the Prime Minister. The question came to me here from the deputies. Please provide the deputies with information on how much money was spent on the flight of Yatsenuk when he was Head of the Supreme Council. That's why I'm going to give you this information, Fish and Yatsenuk, and let you know. I'm asking the Fatherland faction, Vladimir Bondarenko. [[B in m in s a l in]] Once again, there was a question for the Prime Minister, I'll pass on that question.
ParlaMint-UA_2013-10-25-m0.u24	Please pass the word to the Turk.
ParlaMint-UA_2013-10-25-m0.u25	Please, Turkinov People's Deputies.
ParlaMint-UA_2013-10-25-m0.u26	In the absence of the Prime Minister, I would like to ask a question to the First Vice-Prime Minister, two weeks ago President Putin said that Ukraine would receive $260 a gas. As found out under Ukraine, Putin was referring to Mr. And I want to ask you, why are you returning corruption schemes to the energy market again, why are you returning criminal agents again? In view of the fact that Firtash has stopped his businesses, he is releasing people, and he is gassing all the loads back to NAC Naftogaz. NAK Naftogaz, in fact, is bankrupt. They're picking up gas from the vaults. Nobody pays for that. The situation is critical. At the same time, billions of dollars are made on a mediocre basis. Why are you going back to Rosukreenergo? Why are you doing this again? Do you have a criminal shadow that is completely energized? I want to ask you and get a specific answer, how long is this going to take? And if you have cheap gas, why are you not cheap gas?
ParlaMint-UA_2013-10-25-m0.u27	I can't hear who it was. [[B in m in s a l in]] Please turn on the microphone. Who do you have to ask?
ParlaMint-UA_2013-10-25-m0.u28	In the absence of Azarov, there was a question to the First Deputy Prime Minister.
ParlaMint-UA_2013-10-25-m0.u29	Ladies and gentlemen, please sit down and ask questions. Because I am now. [[B in m in s a l in]] I'm going to let the government go. [[B in m in s a l in]] There's no time! I'll let go! [[B in m in s a l in]] So what do we do? What do you need? Okay! Sit down! Now the answer to Turkinov, and then I will give the floor to the First Deputy Minister of Internal Affairs.
ParlaMint-UA_2013-10-25-m0.u30	What's the point, so you're suggesting? [[B in m in s a l in]] There is no Prime Minister. Dear people's deputies, once again like this, the government I will let go and let the government. Let go of the government? [[B in m in s a l in]] Huh? Let's thank the government for the work and wish the work of the government. Thank you.
ParlaMint-UA_2013-10-25-m0.u31	Ladies and gentlemen, we have a meeting on Friday. [[B in m in s a l in]] Dear people. It's all right, isn't [[B in m in s a l in]] On Friday we have 30 minutes to make inquiries. There's no rule. We're calling in MPs. Please. All right, let's ask the MPs and work.
ParlaMint-UA_2013-10-25-m0.u32	What rule, how do you not want to work?
ParlaMint-UA_2013-10-25-m0.u33	Ladies and gentlemen, 502 MPs have arrived. [[B in m in s a l in]] People's MPs have been asked: Alexander Donya to the President of Ukraine regarding the protection of the legal rights and interests of parents and students of the specialized school No. 76 of Olesia Potter of Kiev regarding the free selection of the second foreign language. I'll bet you a vote on the proposal to support the request. Please vote. [[10:55:57]] For-80 The decision is not taken. Vladimir Kurenny to the President of Ukraine on the illegal reinforcement of military presence and the re-arming of the forces of the Black Sea fleet of the Russian Federation in Ukraine. I'll bet you a vote on the proposal to support this request. Please vote. [[10:56:30.]] For-88 The decision is not taken. Oleg Osuhovski to the President of Ukraine for the conversion of Ukrainian courts under the chairmanship of Viktor Tatkov into a tool for the capture of Ukrainian property. I'll bet you a vote on the proposal to support this request. [[10:57:01]] For-88 The decision is not taken. Anatolya Griesenka to the Attorney General of Ukraine on the abolition of the Ukrainian Attorney General's Office from the discovery of criminal conduct and the conduct of follow-up activities in the order of supervision, according to article 1 of the Ukrainian Procurator's Act, on the basis of a criminal offence committed by the Ukrainian Antimonopoly Committee, which did not begin a case of infringement of economic competition legislation as a result of the conclusion of a contract on 19 January 2009 between two entities of management - the Open Shareholder Association Gazprom and the National Shareholder Company Naftogaz Ukraine, did not impose sanctions on the violators and did not oblige them to break an unlawful, legally harmful contract for the State. Anatolia Grizzenka to the Prime Minister of Ukraine on the urgent verification of possible legalization schemes (washing) of proceeds obtained by criminal means by officials of the Private Shareholders Association Real Bank, the city of Kharkiv. Mr. Andriewski to the Prime Minister of Ukraine on non-compliance with the requirements of the Ukrainian Housing and Utilities Act, as part of the amendment to the Ukrainian Electricity Act and the adoption of regulations governing the provision of electricity services to the population. Vitalia Barwinenka to the Minister for Foreign Affairs of Ukraine, Head of the State Border Service of Ukraine for the opening of additional international crossing points at the Ukrainian and Transnistrian border to reduce the load on the main routes. Andrija Mishchenka to the head of the Ukrainian Security Service, Minister of Education and Science, Head of the Dnipropetrov Regional Administration, Head of the Dnipropetrov Regional Council for Forced Distribution and Use of School Diary with Political and Idea Totalitarian Advocacy in All Schools of the Dnipropetrov Region. Andrija Mishchenka to the Minister of Infrastructure of Ukraine, Director-General of the State Railway Administration of Ukraine, Head of the Department of Transportation Police of the Ministry of Internal Affairs of Ukraine, on the verification of the demand for bribes and unprofessional behaviour of Intersity plus drivers. Romana Romanyuk to the Attorney General of Ukraine on the acquisition and organization of checks on the facts of improper investigation by officials of the Ministry of Internal Affairs of Ukraine in the Kharkiv area of the Kharkiv road accident in Kharkiv, which resulted in the death of two people. Alexander Cnervolenka to the Head of the Supreme Council of Ukraine, Prime Minister of Ukraine, Head of the Ukraine Presidential Administration, Minister of Finance of Ukraine for the Inadmissibility of Callback and Return of the 2014 Draft State Budget without a decision of the Supreme Council of Ukraine. Alexander Crnvolenko to the Prime Minister of Ukraine, head of the Ukrainian Presidential Administration, head of the Kyiv City Public Administration for the inadmissibility of accepting the new Kyiv City Master Plan by an illegal Kyiv City Council. Oleg Kulinić is head of the National Registration Service of Ukraine for the inability to rent land (pai) owned by citizens for private farming. Vladimir Pilpenka to the Prime Minister of Ukraine for the unsatisfactory provision of hot water to the inhabitants of Lubna Poltavian region and the threat of the untimely preparation of Lubna for the heating season. Grigory Kaletnik to the Secretary for National Security and Defence of Ukraine, the Attorney General of Ukraine, for bringing to justice officials who on 30 August 2013 risked the lives of Ukrainian citizens in the Kalinov House of Culture. Vladimir Pilpenka to the Minister of Infrastructure of Ukraine for the restoration of the Grand Bagachka-Kyiv bus route and for the provision of transport services in the village of Velika Bogicka with more favourable conditions for passenger transport. Sergia Labazuka to the Minister of Social Policy of Ukraine on the illegal actions of the Pension Fund of Ukraine in the absence of payment to children of the war of monthly social assistance. Sergio Martinjak and Sergio Labazuk to Prime Minister of Ukraine on the elimination of unjustified tariffs for the connection of electrical installations to electricity networks. Vitalia Žuravski to the Attorney General of Ukraine on the legality of the decision of the Brussels District State Administration of the Žitomir Region to rent the land for a long-term lease to the Society with limited liability "Dolinyvski" from the Sobolov Rural Council. The Committee of the Supreme Council of Ukraine on Social Policy and Labour to the Prime Minister of Ukraine on the aims of unifying the Ukrainian State Employment Service with the Ukrainian State Labour Inspectorate. The Committee of the Supreme Council of Ukraine on Social Policy and Work for the Minister of Income and Congregations of Ukraine, the Minister of Social Policy of Ukraine on Long-Term Procedures for Unemployment Payments, Temporary Loss of Employment, Pregnancy and Births of Citizens, and the provision of effective control over the state of timely insurance payments and the availability of funds to the general government social insurance funds. Mikhail Golka to the Head of the Central Electoral Commission, the Attorney General of Ukraine, on the intervention in the election process of the head of the Forest District State Administration, Viktor Sadowski, aimed at disrupting the electoral process in the interim elections to the Shum District Council, and hindering the work of the Shum District Electoral Commission. Ruslana Knazević to the Attorney General of Ukraine, Minister of Internal Affairs of Ukraine, on the illegal actions of co-workers of internal affairs and prosecutors. Alexia Kayda to the Prime Minister of Ukraine for the non-privatization of the Saint-Uspan Pochai's laurel structures, for the inclusion of them in the Kremenac-Pochai State Historical and Architectural Reserve and for the verification of the observance of land and migration laws in the temple complex. Oleg Zarubinsky to Prime Minister of Ukraine for the implementation of regular educational programmes on state television channels. Oleg Zarubinsky to the Prime Minister of Ukraine for the initiation of the total destruction of chemical weapons by Ukraine in the world. Alexander Brigintz to the deputy of the Kiev City Council, the secretary of the Kiev City Council, for urgent action to address the issue of granting land to the district at the address of the Prospect of Heroes of Stalingrad, 49th Obolonian district of Kiev. Mikoli Kucheruk to the Prime Minister of Ukraine on the granting of rights to rural, rural, district, urban Ukrainian communities to open up current accounts at the National Bank of Ukraine and other authorized banks and direct management of available funds. Edward Leonov to the Prime Minister of Ukraine, the Attorney General of Ukraine, the Minister of Interior of Ukraine, the Head of the Security Service of Ukraine on the illegal activity of the Kiev restaurant "Wisluk" and the attack of the guards on the National MP, a member of the faction of the All-Ukrainian Freedom Association of Edward Leonov. Mr. Eduard Leonov and Mr. Paul Kirilenko to the Prime Minister of Ukraine, the Attorney-General of Ukraine, the Minister of Interior of Ukraine, the Head of the Security Service of Ukraine on the pressure from the Ukrainian Security Service and the Chief Executive of the Ministry of Internal Affairs of Ukraine in the Autonomous Republic of Crime for members of the militia, Mr. Stanislav Krasnov and Mr. Alexander Kostenka. Vasil Samylenk to Prime Minister of Ukraine on debt arising from municipal enterprises that provide heat to residents of the New Guinean Village Council of the Žitomir Region, as a result of the actions of the National Shareholder Company Naftogaz Ukraine. Mikli Dzardanova to the Minister of Education and Science of Ukraine on plans to eliminate social rehabilitation schools.
ParlaMint-UA_2013-10-25-m0.u34	Paul Petrenka to the Attorney General of Ukraine, the Minister of Agriculture and Food of Ukraine, the Head of the National Agency for State Service, the Head of the Odessa District Public Administration, for an immediate response to the facts of corruption by the leadership of the State Agricultural Inspectorate in the Odessa region. Paul Petrenka to the Prime Minister of Ukraine, the Attorney-General of Ukraine, the Minister of Internal Affairs of Ukraine, the Minister of Revenue and Assembly of Ukraine, the Head of the Antimonopoly Committee of Ukraine on the urgent response to the fact that the Ukrainian population has been granted medical treatment at higher prices on a fragmented network. Irina Sech to the head of the Committee of the Supreme Council of Ukraine on Budget Affairs, Prime Minister of Ukraine for the financing of the work carried out by the Capital Renovation Fund of Military Cities No. 1 and No. 9 of the City of Kamyanka-Buzka of Lviv Region and the transfer of it to municipal property. Irina Sech to the Prime Minister of Ukraine, Minister of Regional Development, Construction and Housing of Ukraine on the elimination of the negative effects of the shift of the left bank line of the West Bug in the city of Busk Lviv district, financing work aimed at their liquidation, and bringing the road to the right state. Alexander Zubchevsky to the head of the Zaporozhye District State Administration on the use of measures by the Zaporozhye District State Administration to solve the problem of paying off the arrears of employees of the Society with a limited responsibility for the People's Use Goods. Groups of people’s deputies (Lithuania, Thanksgiving, and others) A total of 9 deputies) to the Prime Minister of Ukraine, the Attorney-General of Ukraine, on the implementation of measures to put an end to the unlawful pressure of law enforcement agencies on an enterprise with foreign investments, one of the largest taxpayers in the Žitomir district of Novograd-Wolinski, the Society with limited responsibility of Cersanit Invest. Mikoli Katerinczuk to the Attorney General of Ukraine on violations of legislation and unemployment by employees of the Ministry of Agriculture and Food of Ukraine in solving problems and paying the salaries of the Public Small Enterprises Company of the city of Sarna Rivena. Andrea Shipka to the Head of the National Consumer Protection Inspectorate of Ukraine, Head of the National Commission, which regulates national energy regulations on the provision of clarifications on the development of project documentation for the establishment of gas equipment for the population and the cost of producing such documentation and the execution of assembly works. Vladimir Yavorowski to the Attorney General of Ukraine, Minister of Internal Affairs of Ukraine, on the use of response measures for the activities of the Righteous District Office in Kiev, the Party of the Regions, which forces budget workers to join their ranks and to make payments in a forced manner. Vladimir Yavorowski to the Prime Minister of Ukraine, Head of the State Architecture and Construction Inspection of Ukraine for the illegal capture of the land of a unique, general Ukrainian memorial of the historic landscape of the Kyiv Mountains and the valleys of the Dnipra River (Parkova Road) under the construction of entertainment centres, hotels, restaurants, without any kind of permits, which is an expression of spiritlessness and vandalism. Igora Ribakova to the Prime Minister of Ukraine, Minister of Education and Science of Ukraine, head of the Montenegrin Regional Government Administration for the non-recognition of the closure of the Rygorod Public Education School I-II graduated from the Koropsky region of Montenegro. Mikoli Kucheruk to the Prime Minister of Ukraine for the payment of cash compensation to the parents of the injured children who visit groups of short-term stay in pre-school educational institutions in the village of Grodište of the District of Ravensk. Anatolia Vitova to the Prime Minister of Ukraine on violations of the right of the Chernobyl population to free provision of their sanatorium. Yuri Boubulika to the Prime Minister of Ukraine on the excessive and unjustified increase in the cost of connecting citizens' housing to electricity networks by the Public Shareholders Association Poltavablanergo. Jury Bublika to the Attorney General of Ukraine on the illegal transfer of housing in the village of Rešetillovka Poltavska District to the Society with limited responsibility for Agrotechservis and violation of citizens' rights to privatize their residence. Vladimir Kudri to the Minister of Internal Affairs of Ukraine on non-execution in the full scope of the Ministry of Interior’s instructions to Ukraine from 6 March 2008 No15/5-809/kWh in Kirovgrad, Dnipropetrov, Poltava and the Autonomous Republic of Crimea on the recalculation of pensions to persons who, in the discharge of internal affairs in connection with retirement, worked in the units designated in the Ministry of Internal Affairs’s directive of 6 March 2008 No15/5-809/qv and received the right to include in the manual their financial provision for the operational investigation, intelligence or counter-intelligation of Ukraine’s activities and information and analytical provision of public service, as well as for the operational services. Ruslana Marcinkov to the Prime Minister of Ukraine, head of the Ivano-Frankov District Administration for the transfer to the road balance of the Ivano-Frankiv Road Service on the Coastal Name of Vasil Stefanik in Ivano-Frankivsk. Ruslana Marcinkov to Prime Minister of Ukraine, Attorney General of Ukraine, on the situation surrounding the Pozspecmash plant in the village of Ladan Prilutsky district of Chernigiv region. Vitalia Barwinenka to the Ministry of Internal Affairs of Ukraine on the theft of the material and technical equipment of the Irrigation System (trumpet) of the Tatar district of Odessa. Mikli Tomenka to Prime Minister of Ukraine for the timely financing of objects until 200 years from Taras Shevchenk's birthday. Oleg Knavejkoh to the Attorney General of Ukraine, head of the Lviv District Council for the elimination of violations identified by the verification of the legality of the collection and use of land in Snopkowski Park in Lviv. Oleg Knavejkoh to the Attorney General of Ukraine for the conduct of a full, objective and impartial examination of the activities of the employees of the Public Prosecutor’s Office in the area of Lviv during the pretrial investigation in criminal proceedings No. 1201315001000411. Alexander Turkinov to the Minister of Justice of Ukraine on the unlawful refusal of notary actions by the State notary of the Grebinkov State Notary, Lydia Gerasimenko. Andrija Tajniboka to the Prime Minister of Ukraine on the use of urgent measures to ensure the timely payment of payment orders by the authorities of the State Treasury and the non-indebtedness of the future. Viacheslav Kirilenko to the Prime Minister of Ukraine for ignoring the local authority of the public position and decision of the Parliamentary Committee on Culture and Spirituality regarding the construction of the Taras Shevchenk monument in the central square of the city of Krasnoarmija Donetsk Region and the failure of the President's decree, the decision of the Cabinet of Ministers of Ukraine and the Supreme Council of Ukraine to duly mark the 200th anniversary of Taras Grigorovič Shevchenka's birth in 2014. Alexander Mirna to the Prime Minister of Ukraine, Minister of Interior of Ukraine, Minister of Youth and Sport of Ukraine on the use of measures to respond to the fact of mass speculation with tickets to football matches, which deprives citizens of Ukraine of the opportunity to visit the National Sports Complex of the Olympics and to pain for the National Assembly of Ukraine. Omelana Parubka to the Prime Minister of Ukraine for the protection of the rights of Ukrainian citizens who have the legal status of children of war. Jury Orotyuk to the Attorney General of Ukraine on the pressure of officials of the Smilian District State Administration and the Smilian City Council on media and business subjects. Oleg Tuggnibok to the Attorney General of Ukraine, the Minister of Infrastructure of Ukraine for the Verification of Debt, about five million bracelets, the transporters of Western Ukraine who worked during the construction of the Lviv airport to Euro-2012 and the use of appropriate response measures. Groups of National Deputies (Condratiuk, Heratchenko, and others) 9) to the Prime Minister of Ukraine for information on the use of measures and the provision of a proper legal assessment of the activities of the Prime Minister of Ukraine, which resulted in illegal interference with the activities of the Ukrainian National Deputy, Olga Sikori, which was accompanied by her bodily harm. Groups of National Deputies (Condratiuk, Heratchenko, and others) A total of 9 deputies) to the Attorney General of Ukraine on information on the use of measures and the provision of a proper legal assessment of the illegal obstruction of the activities of the Ukrainian National Deputy, Olga Sikori, which was accompanied by bodily harm by the protection of the Prime Minister of Ukraine. Jury Crook to Prime Minister of Ukraine on the availability of a salary rate for the standard connection of the population to gas networks for residents of the village of Vasilyvka in the district of Odessa. Denisov's people to the Attorney General of Ukraine for the verification of compliance with legislation and the use of appropriate measures of prosecutorial response in order to prevent illegal business activity and corruption in the city of Pagog Zaporez. Groups of National Deputies (Ionova, Heraszczenko, Tomenka) to the Prime Minister of Ukraine on the critical situation of financing the medical sector in Cherkaščina. Maria Ionova and Irina Heraszczenko to the Kamyan City Head of the Cherkas region on the unsatisfactory situation of payments to preschool workers. Andrija Mohnika to the Prime Minister of Ukraine on the blockade by Volodymyr Groysman and Winnick City Council on the site of the Taras Shevchenka Theatre Monument. Alexander Kugel to the prosecutor of the Donetsk district to stop obstructing the legitimate professional activities of journalists. Mikoli Katerinczuk to the Minister of Culture of Ukraine for the protection of the rights and non-admission of illegal land capture and property of the State Enterprise "Ukrainian Study of Chronic and Documentary Films" through the leadership of the Kyiv National University of the Theatre, the film and television production of the name Karpenka-Karogo and the taking of the case under personal control. Larissa Baiduk to First Deputy Prime Minister of Ukraine on the situation around the collective agricultural enterprise "The Lenin Memory" in Sevastopol. Viktor Razwadowski to Prime Minister of Ukraine for the provision of additional funds for the renovation of the roof of House No. 7 on the street of Voronkin in the village of Visna Pić of the Žitomir district of Žitomir district. Viktor Razwadowski to the head of the Zitomir district administration, prosecutor of the Žitomir district for the failure to build an environmentally hazardous enterprise, the Society's bird-combination with limited responsibility "Buduk broiler" on the territory of the Lukovsky village council of the Žitomir district of the Žitomir district. Alexander Abdullin to the Prime Minister of Ukraine for the failure of the State Programme for Youth Housing in 2013. Alexander Abdullin to the Attorney-General of Ukraine for misconduct in the conduct of the trial conducted by the employees of the Office of the Department of Internal Affairs organized by the Ministry of Internal Affairs in the Mikolayiv region and the Prosecutor's Office of the Odessa Region. Mikhail Gerasimczuk to the Prime Minister of Ukraine on the theft of property of the Winnitsky Central District Hospital of the Vinnitsk Region under the cover of medical reform. Michael Gerasimczuk to the Ministry of Internal Affairs of Ukraine on the delay in investigating the crime of the looting of funds received for the gasification of the village of Zarwanci in the Winnick district of Winnick. Constantine Guzenka to the Minister of Energy and Coal Industry of Ukraine on the crisis situation that arose at the State Enterprise Public Shareholders Association of Dniprožinska TEC. Basil Wooden to the Prime Minister of Ukraine on the use of urgent measures to ensure that the budget is allocated for the completion of the restructuring of intensive treatment of newly born Ternopil children's clinics, for the purchase of resanimobiles for the transport of heavy and newborn children in the area, as well as for the feeding of children in the hospital and for the repayment of the hospital's debts during the last heating season. Vitalia Barwinenka to the Attorney General of Ukraine on the inaction of the Head of the city of Bilgorod - Dnistrovski Igor Nanovski in filling the local budget. Alexander Donya to the Minister of Justice of Ukraine, Attorney General of Ukraine, on the rightfulness of gathering information about parents and school students into the only national electronic education database. Sergei Firemarck to the Prime Minister of Ukraine regarding the provision of information on the allocation of public funds to deal with the effects of the flood in the Odessa region. Eugene Melnik to the Prime Minister of Ukraine on the allocation of funds in the State Budget for 2014 for the construction of the general education school I-III graduated in the village of Grady Ivanichov district of Volin region. Eugene Melnik to the Prime Minister of Ukraine for the creation of an expert committee or working group with the involvement of chemical specialists to address the issue of the age pension on the credit terms of Lists Nos 1 and Nos 2 to former employees of the Lubomlin branch of the Kyiv plant Mayak. Vladimir Pekhov to the Minister of Social Policy of Ukraine on the improper consideration of the parliamentary request for official clarifications in part of the impact of the budget indicators developed by the National Deputy of Ukraine, Volodymyr Pekhov, for amendments to the Ukrainian Law on the Status and Social Protection of Citizens Affected by the Chernobyl Disaster (for the Improvement of Individual Regulations) and for the Restructuring of Debt from Payments under Articles 30, 37, 39, 48 of the Ukrainian Law on the Status and Social Protection of Citizens Affected by the Chernobyl Disaster. Vladimir Pekhov to the Ministry of Health of Ukraine, Attorney General of Ukraine, on the legality of the use of endoprotetics for ball joints purchased by the Department of Health of the Zitomir District Administration, under the National Budget Programme "Comprehensive Health Care and Treatment of Oncological Diseases through the Use of High Value Medical Technologies of Citizens affected by the Chernobyl disaster". The Group of Greenewecko to the Ministry of Finance of Ukraine, the Head of the State Pension Service of Ukraine on the status of implementation of the Comprehensive Housing Program for Civil Servants, Private and Chief of Staff, Customs Officers and Members of Their Families in the part concerning the authorities of the State Pension Service of Ukraine in the Odessa Region. Mr. Greenewecko's Sergey to the Minister of Social Policy of Ukraine on the restoration of the rights of citizens involved in the liquidation of the ČAES accident, on which the grounds for determining the status are established by judicial decisions. The Arthur of the Palace to the Attorney General of Ukraine on violations of Ukrainian legislation when the project was approved by the Land Authority on the establishment and modification of the boundaries of the village of Sofia Borszagivka within the Sofia-Borstagov Rural Council of the Kyiv Region. Arturo Palace to the Attorney General of Ukraine on the anti-moral and professionally unacceptable conduct of the procurator of the city of Artemovska Donetsk. Arsenija Yatsenuka to the Prime Minister of Ukraine for the verification of the implementation in the village of Lemes of the Kozelet region of Chernigiv region in full scope and in the established terms of the budget programme "State support for the livestock sector" and the decrees of the Cabinet of Ministers of Ukraine dated 2 March 2011 No.246 "For the approval of the procedure for the use of the value added tax paid by processing enterprises to the special fund of the State budget of Ukraine". Sergey Kunicina to the Attorney General of Ukraine on the violation of the rights of members of the Crimean Regional Organization of the Ukrainian Veterans Association of Afghanistan by the leadership of the Council of Ministers of the Autonomous Republic of Crimea. Oleg Kanovtsa to Vice Prime Minister Alexander Vilkul of Ukraine for the completion of the construction of a public education school in 654 student places in the village of the village type of Nests of the Jewish region of Lviv. Vladimir Bondarenko to the Prime Minister of Ukraine, Ministry of Health of Ukraine, head of the Kyiv City State Administration, for the introduction of a contract form of employment contract with regard to directors of Ukrainian health institutions. Vladimir Bondarenko to the Attorney-General of Ukraine on the unsatisfactory response of the Office of the Attorney-General of Ukraine to a parliamentary request and self-refoulement from the adoption of measures of prosecutorial response to the adoption by the authorities of the local self-government of illegal legislation, in which the right of the National Deputy of Ukraine to "take part in the advisory vote in the work of the sessions of the Councils" (as provided for in the Ukrainian Law on the Status of the People's MP of Ukraine) is subject to the voting of most of these councils. Peter Zibank, Prime Minister of Ukraine, on the implementation of the right of disabled persons and war veterans to receive compensation for the cost of travel to and from the sanatorium. The Gennady of Moscow to the Head of the Accounting Chamber, the Attorney General of Ukraine, the Head of the National Financial Inspectorate of Ukraine for the improper provision of uniform clothing for the Ministry of Internal Affairs, forcing management to purchase police uniforms for the personal costs of employees and for the cancellation of the order of the Ministry of Internal Affairs of Ukraine, which provided for compensation in the event of non-receivable property. The Gennady of Moscal to the Attorney General of Ukraine, Head of the National Financial Inspectorate of Ukraine on the verification of the conditions for the laundering of budgetary resources while purchasing 14.7 million bracelets in Yalta's Autonomous Republic of Ukraine's Ministry of Internal Affairs, and on the holding of seminars in private sanatorium for the private warehouse, as well as the drawing of guilty persons to criminal responsibility. Michael Apostolic to the Prime Minister of Ukraine for financing the completion of the construction of a school in the village of Horigles of the Monastery district of Ternopil. Michael Apostolic to the Prime Minister of Ukraine for the review of the arrangements for the allocation of annual grants from the State budget of Ukraine for the maintenance of out-of-school education facilities for cities of regional importance and the use of urgent measures to provide additional grants to the Ternopol education facilities to ensure payment of 10 million dollars in wages and payment of 6.1 million dollars in heat. Igor Sabia to the head of the State Treasury Office of Ukraine regarding the non-payment of material security to insured persons in the Hmelnicki district. Natalia Agaphonova and Olga Bilkova to the Prime Minister of Ukraine on the state of preparation and execution by the Cabinet of Ministers of Ukraine and the authorities of the State Executive Authority at the sites of the standards of article 17 of the Ukrainian Law on Administrative Services. Jacob Besbach to the Ministry of Health of Ukraine, Prosecutor of Dnipropetrov's Interregional Prosecutor's Office for the Enforcement of Laws in the Environmental Protection Area, Head of the General Administration of the State Epidemiological Service in the Dnipropetrov region, Head of the Inspectorate of State Architecture and Building Control in the Dnipropetrovsk oblast, Head of State Environmental Inspection in the Dnipropetrov district, Director of the Department of Ecology and Natural Resources of the Dnipropetrov Regional Regional Administration, Dnipropetrovsk City Council, Chief of the Directorate of Veterinary Medicine in the Dnipropetrov district, on addressing the pressing issue of a catastrophic environmental environment around the Closed Association of Health Care. Oleg Kanovtsa to the Minister of Energy and Coal Industry of Ukraine for the financing of the National Shareholder Company Naftogaz Ukraine for the construction of the "High Pressure Underwater Gas Pipeline to the village of Upper Stinava of the district of Lviv Region". Jacob Besbach to Head of the Private Enterprise Ecoproject-KM, President of the Agro- Owen Corporation, Director of the State Institute of Hygiene and Medical Ecology of Alexander Marzeyev of the National Academy of Medical Sciences of Ukraine, Director of the branch of the State Enterprise Ukradrze Budedekexpertiza in the Dnipropetrovsk Region, Associations with Limited Responsibility of the Scientific Producer of Eco-engineering to address the pressing issue of the catastrophic and environmental problem surrounding the Closed Shareholder Society. Jury Crook to the Head of the State Agency for Road Traffic in Ukraine on the issue of improving the conditions of travel and road safety on the Kirnicki - Graduation of the Bologna district of Odessa. Vasil Gladys and Alexander Fitchuk to the Prime Minister of Ukraine on the need to take appropriate measures after the construction of the bridge crossing through the Tchermos River in the village of corner of the Kosovar region of Ivano-Frankiv region. Sergei Gordienka to Prime Minister of Ukraine, Minister of Finance of Ukraine, for the financing of the State Long Term Loan Scheme for Young Families and Lonely Young Citizens for Construction (Reconstruction) and Housing. Sergija Gordienka to the Attorney General of Ukraine, Minister of Internal Affairs of Ukraine, on the need for a perfect, impartial and pre-trial investigation into the road accident with a fatal impact that took place on the road section of Kirovograd Platonov in January 2013. Olga Fight with the Attorney General of Ukraine, Ukrainian Health Minister, regarding the non-admission of the Betfer 1-A Plus medicine, which does not meet the quality control standards established in Ukraine. Olga Fight with the Attorney-General of Ukraine on the verification of compliance with the rules of legislation in force in the pursuit of the land of historical and cultural purpose, which is subject to a special regulatory regime. Tetjana Sluz to Head of the State Road Agency of Ukraine, Director-General of the Public Shareholders Association Kyivenergo for the restoration of the outdoor lighting section between 12 and 18 kilometres of M-06 Kyiv-Chop. Tetjana Sluz to Prime Minister of Ukraine, Prosecutor General of Ukraine, to ensure that the completion of the preschool construction in the village of Kozilovka in the Chernigiv region is financed. Ruslan Solvar to the Prime Minister of Ukraine, Minister of Infrastructure of Ukraine, on the inadequacy of the liquidation of the state institution "State Aviation Medical Centre of Civil Aviation" in Kiev. Ruslan Solvar to the Attorney General's Office of Ukraine, Ministry of Justice of Ukraine, Ministry of Internal Affairs of Ukraine, State Executive Service of Ukraine, Department of Justice in the Kyiv Region, Department of State Executive Services of the Makarska District Administration of Justice on a long-term and deliberate failure to execute a court decision by the Department of State Executive Service of the Makarov District Department of Justice of the Kyiv Region. Alexander Sr. to the Attorney General of Ukraine, Minister of Health of Ukraine, Minister of Internal Affairs of Ukraine, on the investigation of an irregular and unjustified increase in prices of between 5 and 7 times on medicines for the population. Alexander Prisznyuk to Aice-Prime Minister of Ukraine Alexander Vilkula, Attorney-General of Ukraine, Head of the Government of the State Specialised Financial Institution, State Fund for the Promotion of Youth Housing, Head of the Luhansk District Public Administration for the Resolution of the Construction of a Multi-entity Building in Lugansk on the Street of General Lapšin, 186 for 121 young families, and for the involvement of those responsible for the theft of 20 million bracelets, resulting in no building for more than 5 years. Vladimir Bidyovka to the prosecutor of the Donetsk district for the examination of the activities of the employees of the Wallowsky District Department of the Ministry of Interior of Ukraine in the Donetsk region. Vladimir Bidyovka to the Prime Minister of Ukraine regarding the provision of a solid fuel to the citizens' category. Alexander Sic to the Minister of Energy and Coal Industry of Ukraine for the introduction in Ukraine of fuel and commercial technology for the production of electricity from organic fuels and hydrogen. Irina Farion to the Prime Minister of Ukraine on the position of the Cabinet of Ministers of Ukraine on the statement made by the first Deputy Minister of Education and Science of Ukraine Eugene Sulima on the exit of the Ministry of Education and Science of Ukraine from the founders of the International Competition in Ukrainian by the name of Peter Jacek. Irina Pharion to the Prime Minister of Ukraine on the execution of the Ukrainian President's mandate from September 8, 2012 "To improve the legislative enforcement of languages in Ukraine" by the Cabinet of Ministers of Ukraine. Roman Ilik to the Prime Minister of Ukraine for an additional grant of the budget of the city of Truscavec of the Lviv Region from the State Budget of Ukraine for 2014. Sergia Soboljeva to the Attorney General of Ukraine, head of the State Agency for Land Resources of Ukraine, on the use of urgent measures to return to the state-owned territory of the Konka River, unlawfully transferred to private property in the Zaporez region of Zaporez Region, as well as to carry out a comprehensive verification of the licensed land-use organization, which developed the project by means of false information to its materials. Oleg Shablatovic to the Prime Minister of Ukraine for the annulment of the decision of the Commission of the Kiev City Administration of 6 November 2012 and for the return to the citizen of Tetjani Pilishenko of the status suffered by the Chernobyl disaster and the return of the relevant certificate. Oleg Shablatovic to the Director of the Department of Urban Welfare and Conservation of the Natural Environment for the Cessation of Trade Point (Kiosk) next to Buildings Nos. 6, 6-A and 6-B on the street of the Trostyanetsk Darnitsky district of Kiev. Larissa Baiduk to the Prime Minister of Ukraine on the development of draft legislative and regulatory instruments prohibiting sand production in the Black Sea area of the State of Ukraine. Sergia Glazunova to the Prime Minister of Ukraine for the signing of the passport of the State Targeted Nuclear Fuel Programme of Ukraine. Ruslana Skarbowiyczuk to Prime Minister of Ukraine, Minister of Education and Science of Ukraine for the reconstruction of the Lopuchiv School of Public Education number. I-II was in the Tachiv district of Zakarpat district. Oksana Sold to the head of the National Registration Service of Ukraine regarding the electronic registration of persons as taxpayers. Olga Lewchenko to Prime Minister of Ukraine, head of Kyiv City State Administration for the renovation of the specialized school building No.135. Lidija Kotelak to the Prime Minister of Ukraine on the provision of cost-effective appointments for the salaries of the Zoločov and Przemyslyansk budgetary institutions in the region of Lviv. Oleg Heleway to the Prime Minister of Ukraine on the annulment of Cabinet of Ministers Decision No.572 of 14 August 2013 on the amendment to the State Economic Revitalization Programme 2013-2014 and the withdrawal of State guarantees to the sum of 1.35 billion dollars from Euro Finance Ltd. for the financing of the construction of the Biocerkow steelworks plant. Oleg Heleway to the Minister of Health of Ukraine regarding the provision of medical facilities in Kiev by medical devices of the heart. Rev. Hanenka to head the State Service of Ukraine from medical facilities on the grounds and consequences of a temporary and complete ban on the implementation and application of a series of medical devices. Vasila Petěvka to the Minister of Education and Science of Ukraine regarding the provision of school buses for the transport of pupils and children of general and preschool educational institutions from the village of Tajivka in the Zakarpatsky region to the educational and home areas. Andrija Pishny to the Prime Minister of Ukraine on the use of urgent measures to pay off arrears from wages. Alexander Dove to the head of the Dnipropetrov District State Administration on the legality of municipal services in the area. Alexander Golub to the Attorney General of Ukraine on the extension of criminal investigations by the prosecutors of Primorski and Kyiv district of Odessa. Mikli Dzardanova to Prime Minister of Ukraine on a situation that took place at the municipal company Mikolayev International Airport and other airports in Ukraine. Igora Ribakova to the Prime Minister of Ukraine on financing arrangements to commemorate in 2014 at the national level 120th anniversary of the birth of the film director, cinematographer, the classic of the world cinematographer, author Alexander Long. Valentina Queen to the Prime Minister of Ukraine for changes to the Ukrainian Cabinet Order of 8 December 2010 No.1149 "Some Questions on the Distribution of Inter-Budget Transfers". The Queen's Valentine to the Cabinet of Ministers of Ukraine, the State Agency for Roads in Ukraine, the Equality District State Administration for Road Status in the 154th constituency. Vasil Samylenk to the Attorney General of Ukraine on the illegal actions of the Lubarsky District and Village Council of the Zitomir Region, who placed the station under the cafe and the barbershop. Hennady Fedorjak to the Ministry of Health of Ukraine, the Authorized President of Ukraine for Children’s Rights, the Ministry of Social Policy of Ukraine on the need for every contribution to the treatment of a child with disabilities abroad, Vitalia Strysk to ensure him an inalienable natural and inviolable right to health care and timely medical care from authorized authorities of the State. Vasila Petovka to the Prime Minister of Ukraine regarding the allocation of budgetary resources for compensation to owners of buildings damaged by the shifting processes in the Zakartat region. Groups of National Deputies (Opanastenica, Negoya, and others) A total of 4 deputies) to the Prime Minister of Ukraine to address the extraordinary situation that took place in the village of Rosdolny in the Kakhov district of Hersson in connection with the absence of a settlement in the functioning of the cleaning system. Alexander Mockov to the Attorney-General of Ukraine, the Minister of Internal Affairs of Ukraine, the Head of the Security Service of Ukraine on the need for a thorough review of the likelihood of the flow of information with the personal data of Ukrainian citizens as a result of the suspension of the functioning of the State Registers and the involvement of guilty persons in the responsibility. Vladimir Litvina to the Prime Minister of Ukraine on the radiological status of the populated areas of the Žitomir region to the criteria for radioactive pollution zones. Vladimir Schulga to the Attorney General of Ukraine on the use by the Prosecutor General of Ukraine of the necessary measures to verify the inefficient use of budget funds by the Raicommungosp company of the Trostian District Council of Sumsk district. Mikhail Golka to the Prime Minister of Ukraine about the allocation of funds for the purchase of a school bus for the village of Bolazuba in the Ternopil region. Alexander Turchinov to the Attorney General of Ukraine on the inaction of officials in the internal affairs of Ukraine when considering the appeal of a citizen of Modestas Massivius. Taisiya Povali to the head of the Kyiv District State Administration for the repair of asphalt cover in the streets of Lenin and the Aviators in the village of Petropavlovska Borszagivika Kyivovo-Svetoshinsk district of Kyiv region.
ParlaMint-UA_2013-10-25-m0.u35	Dear National Deputies, in accordance with article 60 of the Supreme Council of Ukraine Rules, I report on the establishment of the Seventh Interfractional Deputy Union "To Europe Without Totalitarian Heritage" in the Supreme Council of Ukraine. The head of the interfractional "To Europe Without a Totalitarian Heritage" is the National Deputy of Ukraine, Gurwicz Eduard Josephovich. At the request of two MP factions: the Fatherland faction and the Freedom faction, I declare a 10-minute recess. Read the Rules. I announce a break of 10 minutes, and then we'll start discussing pension reform.
ParlaMint-UA_2013-10-25-m0.u36	You will. The People's Deputies of the Freedom Qaeda faction are invited to make their statements.
ParlaMint-UA_2013-10-25-m0.u37	Thank you. Honorable fellow MPs, honourable Ukrainians, you know, unfortunately, but somehow in Parliament it becomes a tradition to observe a disgraceful phenomenon called an hour of questions to the government. No specific answer to both the written questions of the national deputies and the oral questions were answered by these so - called ministers, the first deputies were unable to answer. But the most disgraceful thing is that when Ukraine is on the verge of a technical default, when the execution ends a week and a couple of tens of millions for the whole country, when the pensioners cannot get their pensions within a few days, they are staying by ATMs because they have nothing to buy bread or milk for, the Prime Minister of Azarov is resting in Crimea. He made himself an velvety season when MPs want to talk about how to get the country out of this economic divide, ask questions, and get specific answers to these questions. Also, unfortunately, two days ago our factions demanded a minister of the interior. Andrew Illenko asked a specific question and a question to the first deputy minister of the interior for the absence of a minister. What's going on? National MPs are not allowed to pass through public authorities, local self - government agencies. Instead, no answer was received. Who allowed the government in general to let go of this bed? Who gave us the right when we have hundreds of questions, questions of an economic nature, questions of a social nature? The Minister of Social Policy has come out, and I understand that she's training in language, but unfortunately, beyond what she's been written, she can't say, except for "cat shops." This is a disgraceful phenomenon. A phenomenon that needs to be stopped. If we have two times a month going on "the hour of questions to the government," then the Prime Minister, the Vice Prime Minister, the ministers and they have to give specific answers to specific questions, if they can't do that, they have to write a statement and leave. Thank you. Glory to Ukraine!
ParlaMint-UA_2013-10-25-m0.u38	The draft Act (registration number 2934, 2934-1) on amending certain Ukrainian legislation on the definition of the conditions for the pension of citizens is being considered. I'm making a proposal to deal with this issue with a reduced procedure. People's deputies please vote. [[11:45:32]] Z-11. The decision is not taken. The National Deputy of Ukraine, Irina Valerievna, is invited to report.
ParlaMint-UA_2013-10-25-m0.u39	Report.
ParlaMint-UA_2013-10-25-m0.u40	Honorable National Deputies, distinguished Ukrainians! All of us who work in the districts today know that the biggest injustice in the country today is pension reform. The Law on Pension Reform has robbed the poor themselves, the defenseless themselves, those who need care and support — the pensioners of Ukraine. There are MPs from the Party of Regions sitting in the hall, and you know that the biggest shame for you is when you look into the eyes of old grandparents, and you have to justify what you voted for, your Party of Regions voted for this shameful reform. So I urge you to support our bill, abolish pension reform and restore justice, accept real systemic changes to pension legislation. Let's look at the results of the pension reform. In all, in various articles in 2012, pseudo reformers stole over 2.6 billion dollars from Ukrainian pensioners because of the law in force. First question. Have you fulfilled your main promise to increase pensions for those who are unable to work? No, it's not. 9.5 million Ukrainian pensioners now receive pensions below 1,200. 9.5 million people a month get less than those MPs who voted for this pension reform and who spend more on their breakfasts than people get in a month. The government justifies itself as a large deficit in the pension fund, so there is a need to reduce pension costs. Second question. Did they save the pension fund money taken from pensioners? No way. Today, the pension deficit is over 64 billion dollars, and in 2012 the deficit was twice the budgeted rate. In fact, an unwarranted increase in pensions has contributed to the shadowing of the economy. Workers saw that a state without any logic could steal their pension and lose confidence in pension reform. Contributions to the Pension Fund are declining. Question three. Is the existing pension reform fair? No, it's not. Because the most disgraceful phenomenon is the privilege of retirement. Most prosecutors, judges, civil servants, national deputies, or hearings of the nations, receive pensions far more than the people of Ukraine. If you want to make a shortcut, you have to start with the civil servants. And the fourth. Is the existing pension reform fair and convenient? No way. People with the same background and the same amount of contributions to the Pension Fund may vary in case. Because you need a comprehensive solution to all pension problems in one law, not in dozens like this. We suggest that we give women the right to retire at 55 years of age, reduce insurance by 10 years. Please support our bill, which answers basic questions, because only a new law can restore confidence in the pension system and save the Pension Fund from total bankruptcy. We offer to save the future for millions of pensioners and protect their rights. Please support our bill. Thank you for your attention.
ParlaMint-UA_2013-10-25-m0.u41	Please sign up for the question. Kudrija National Deputy, faction of the Ukrainian Company.
ParlaMint-UA_2013-10-25-m0.u42	Please give the floor to the National Deputy of Ukraine Sergio Volodymyrovich Gordijenko.
ParlaMint-UA_2013-10-25-m0.u43	Turn on the microphone of national deputy Sergei Gordijenko.
ParlaMint-UA_2013-10-25-m0.u44	Thank you. First of all, I would like to point out that the faction of the Company of Ukraine supports all the laws relating to pension reform, who would not be their authors, and how many times have we not initiated, as we have done in the past. But I do have a question to the rapporteur and probably to the verdict: on what basis will you report the bill if you are not the author?
ParlaMint-UA_2013-10-25-m0.u45	I'm the co-author of this bill.
ParlaMint-UA_2013-10-25-m0.u46	It says Denisova and Sanchenko.
ParlaMint-UA_2013-10-25-m0.u47	Read it well today.
ParlaMint-UA_2013-10-25-m0.u48	Yes, I've read it well.
ParlaMint-UA_2013-10-25-m0.u49	I'm the co-author of this bill.
ParlaMint-UA_2013-10-25-m0.u50	In these bills that you've given away, what's the point of telling you that you're not the author of the bill?
ParlaMint-UA_2013-10-25-m0.u51	Because Dennis is sick. [[B in m in s a l in]] There's my last name, read carefully, read carefully. I am the co-author of this bill and others.
ParlaMint-UA_2013-10-25-m0.u52	Answer me. Yavorowski National Deputy, Fatherland faction.
ParlaMint-UA_2013-10-25-m0.u53	Vladimir Yavorowski, Troyshina, Fatherland Party. The Trinity who voted 64 percent for July in the presidential election. Dear reporter, first of all, don't pay any attention to these provocations, but you see how they're all nervous, because this law has finally been introduced. First. Perhaps you can see better from the rostrum than from the hall that there are about 45 or more representatives of the Party of the Regions in the hall today. These are the national happiness fighters, the people who voted in favour of this criminal law that put Ukrainian women in such a difficult situation. You see, on normal days when they're being chased here, they're sitting next to each other. Today, when such drafts are adopted, they run like rats. There's no one here. Look, there's a couple of people sitting in the hall. That means they want to break this bill because our voices, our opposition, may not be enough to.
ParlaMint-UA_2013-10-25-m0.u54	National MP Topalov, faction of the Ukrainian Company.
ParlaMint-UA_2013-10-25-m0.u55	Sergey Topalov, Communist faction. Please pass the word to Kilinkar.
ParlaMint-UA_2013-10-25-m0.u56	Turn on the microphone of the People's Deputy Kilinkarov.
ParlaMint-UA_2013-10-25-m0.u57	Thank you. I have a question for you. Here we are discussing pension reform today. Of course, the Communist faction will support all the bills relating to the abolition of the disgraceful pension reform adopted by the faction of the Party of the Regions, along with your representatives, the fighters, in the last assembly. But I have a question for you: Now 170 billion dollars are being spent in envelopes to employees. They don't pay taxes, including the Pension Fund. Is your faction ready to support a Communist bill that allows for the legalization of these salaries and the replenishment of the Pension Fund? Thank you. Bill 3388, registered at the Supreme Council of Ukraine
ParlaMint-UA_2013-10-25-m0.u58	I want to point out and say that this shameful law, the pension reform, was adopted by 70 deputies at night, and among them were members of the Communist Party. [[B in m in s a l in]] You must have forgotten that. [[B in m in s a l in]] Listen! You must have forgotten, like at night, on the "choice," you voted. That's how Ukraine saw it.
ParlaMint-UA_2013-10-25-m0.u59	Are you done? Sit down, Irina Valerievna. The word for replication is given to the faction of the Company of Ukraine, National Deputy Gordijenko.
ParlaMint-UA_2013-10-25-m0.u60	Dear citizens, dear fellows! You can see how there's been a tremendous provocation in the session room when one of the deputies came up and said you were going to blame and throw it at the public on this particular faction of the Company of Ukraine. I reaffirm and say that the faction of the Ukrainian Company has not voted in favour of the bill and has never voted. And I would like to emphasize once again that this is a brutal lie, 25 votes, those who came out of the faction of the Yulia Timoshenko and were in what is called the Reforms for the Future, they voted. You have just added those votes and the political party of the Yulia Block Timoshenko – the All-Ukrainian Union of the Fatherland is directly responsible for this, and it is also directly responsible for the fact that you started when you signed the memoranda with the International Monetary Fund that started this reform.
ParlaMint-UA_2013-10-25-m0.u61	Reporter, sit down, please. [[B in m in s a l in]] Your time is running out. The National Deputy of Ukraine, Zubik Vladimir Volodymyrovic, is invited to report. Your time is up, please sit down. Dear National Deputies, obey the Rules! [[B in m in s a l in]] I'll give you a replica after the reporter sits down. Who will announce the replica? Who will announce the replica? You're the reporter first. The reporter must first learn to read the laws because of the Rules. By regulation. Don't yell. By regulation.
ParlaMint-UA_2013-10-25-m0.u62	You are an uneducated person, and you would have to treat your colleagues more tolerantly. Once again, learn to listen, fellow believers, learn to listen, learn to listen! I'm telling you again, the reporter after he answered. Listen! After reporting his bill, the reporter answered questions. [[B in m in s a l in]] There is a very different national MP on the line. Sit down! [[B in m in s a l in]] Please don't touch, act the way it should be. Who's going to say the line? Turn on the microphone of the Turkinov People's Deputy.
ParlaMint-UA_2013-10-25-m0.u63	Dear voters, I think you are as we are here, present in the hall, shocked by the cynicism of the Communist Party, the party that led to the power of Yanukovich, the party that voted for the government of Azarov, who voted for the bills. Instead of money, people are now getting bills, so there's nothing to pay their pensions for, there's nothing to count on. It is this party that serves the oligarchs and tells cynically and sheds tears about the workers. There is no worker among them! Some oligarchs in expensive suits who simply compromise the name of Communists. That's what the Communist Party is today. And besides lying and cynicism, we haven't heard from them in 70 years. I very much ask the presiding officer not to violate the Rules and to work directly under the Rules, giving the floor and giving the opportunity to speak. Thank you. [[Applause]]
ParlaMint-UA_2013-10-25-m0.u64	Ladies and gentlemen, before we announce our recess, I would like to inform you about the questions that have been raised in the hall, that, indeed, the bill was tabled on 25.04.2013 by the people's deputies Denisova and Senchenk. And six months later, on September 4, the people’s deputies Denisov and Senchenko wrote that they should include Irina Valeriyivna as a member of the national deputy. Six months later, she became a coauthor. I'm calling it a 12-hour break for 30 minutes.
ParlaMint-UA_2013-10-25-m0.u65	Ladies and gentlemen, we are continuing our meeting. The National Deputy of Ukraine, Zubik Vladimir Volodymyrovic, is invited to report.
ParlaMint-UA_2013-10-25-m0.u66	Dear Chairman! Dear fellow MPs! You are aware of the proposal for a bill amending some of Ukraine's legislative acts. This project envisions amendments to the Ukrainian Act on the Congregation for Compulsory State Pension Insurance. It proposes to set up a mandatory state pension insurance fund for the purchase of a cash - free foreign currency with a rate of 1 percent from 1 January 2014. Amendments to the Ukrainian Law also provide for the establishment of a retirement age for women of 55 years, the establishment of an insurance period which grants the right to receive a minimum pension at the age of: for women of 25 years, for men of 30 years. The purchase volume of cash-free currency in the Miżbankowe Monetary Market of Ukraine in July-December 2012 was 162 billion dollars. In the current year, 2013, there is a positive dynamic: from the beginning of the year to the same period last year, the corresponding amounts of cash-free currency increased by 1.34 times. In keeping with this trend in the second half of 2013, the estimated purchase volume of cash-free currency in Ukraine’s interbank currency market in July-December 2013 is $217.8 billion. In 2014, the government budget of the congregation for pension insurance in cash - free currency purchases may amount to up to 30 billion dollars from those figures and projections. 30 billion dollars. Thus, from the beginning of the first half of 2013, a mandatory state pension insurance fund from a cash-free foreign currency purchase operation at 1 per cent allows not only to fully fund the additional expenses of the Pension Fund but also to partially reduce the deficit. Costs accumulated in the state budget are aimed at restoring social justice for people who have been deprived of their pension rights due to an increase in retirement age and the necessary insurance service. The bill was drafted and registered in April 2013. At that time, his entry into force was planned for the second half of the year. Since consideration has been delayed for objective reasons, I suggest that it be accepted as a basis. When it is further developed, it will set a deadline for the entry into force of January 1, 2014. Or on another date, according to the Ukrainian Budget Code. I propose to accept this project as a basis and I ask you to vote for it. Thank you.
ParlaMint-UA_2013-10-25-m0.u67	The question lies with the National Deputies? Please sign up. National Deputy Bezbach, faction of the Party of the Regions.
ParlaMint-UA_2013-10-25-m0.u68	Please pass the word to Zuravsky.
ParlaMint-UA_2013-10-25-m0.u69	Dear colleague, thank you for your report. Please tell me again, what is the amount of money needed to implement this project if this law is adopted? And please state the sources of the budget to implement this law, as you suggest, if it enters into force on 1 January next year. Thank you.
ParlaMint-UA_2013-10-25-m0.u70	As I said before, the source of the proceeds will be the taxation of the transactions after the conversion of the currency. And that, of course, will not fully cover this deficit that there is. But the forecast for 2014 is 30 billion dollars a year. One percent we tax. So it's not about the next declaration, it's about how we need to improve the quality of life, it's about how we can do that.
ParlaMint-UA_2013-10-25-m0.u71	National Deputy Catherinechuk, Fatherland faction.
ParlaMint-UA_2013-10-25-m0.u72	Please pass on the word to Vladimir Yavorowski, the representative of Troastia.
ParlaMint-UA_2013-10-25-m0.u73	Turn on the microphone of the people’s deputy Yavorowski.
ParlaMint-UA_2013-10-25-m0.u74	Vladimir Yavorowski. Dear reporter, first of all, I'm on behalf of the Fatherland faction, and maybe even Freedom, and from Strike, thank you for helping the Ukrainian people in the election, giving them 150 dollars. It's really very strong help for your voters, and they still can't afford to spend that kind of money, so big. The other one. A scandalous story with "Levela," to which you have a direct relationship, which drove fuel into Ukraine without a carousel and earned it, I can make a little bit of a mistake, but I'm probably going to cut down on about six billion dollars that were actually stolen from the Pension Fund. If this money were in our budget today, it would not be worth discussing today. And the second. You in the Party of the Regions voted in favour of that shameful law, and now you're introducing a completely different law. How do you understand that? What has changed in your life?
ParlaMint-UA_2013-10-25-m0.u75	I have the same attitude as you do with this company you're talking about. Let's move on. There was a temporary commission of inquiry, yes, and you were also a member of that temporary commission, and the head of that temporary commission, I think, was the cook. And they've been working on it. and the findings of this committee that the imperfect legislation that needs to be improved there and then there were some other references and comments about it. Not anymore. As for the voters who voted for me, where I got the highest rating among the 8 constituencies in Cherkaščina, you'd better ask the voters and find out why they gave me their votes.
ParlaMint-UA_2013-10-25-m0.u76	Thank you. Have a seat, please. The report is given to the head of the Committee on Pensioners, Veterans, and Disabled Persons, Suškevitch Valery Mikhajlovich. Turn on the microphone.
ParlaMint-UA_2013-10-25-m0.u77	Thank you. Dear colleagues, dear friends, before you start your report on this issue, you know, I'm looking at the hall and I'm mentioning yesterday's bill on hunting and hunting. The hall was overcrowded. Now we're looking at the issue of pension reform, the question of what's most interesting about the more than 15 million of our voters, the people whose generations have made the Ukrainian state. And I'm sorry as the head of the committee to point out that attention to this issue is given to the respective factions, including those who are not in control, and that's sad. I want to say that, in addressing the leadership of the Supreme Council, the secretariat that, unfortunately, social issues remain out of the reach of the Ukrainian Parliament over the weeks. And as head of the committee, I have to say it in the beginning. Dear colleagues, in fact, Bill 2934 was considered on our committee. And as has already been said, the bill proposes to amend the negative, discriminatory rules of the so-called pension reform that were adopted in 2011. Dear colleagues, I would like to say that the position of the Committee on Pensioners, Veterans and Disabled Persons has been formed for a long time since the reform was adopted and remains so today. That the standards of pension reform that were adopted at the time cannot be justified until the entire arsenal of socially neutral and economically necessary measures is exhausted, which can ensure the balance of the solidarity system of pension insurance. And the pension reform didn't touch the detinction of wages, it didn't touch the reduction in employment, which is today, the rise in wage levels, the realization of job development and so on. And in general, when the two bills were under consideration, the committee noted that in less than two years since the so-called pension reform had been adopted, they were saying that today the government had actually destroyed the situation of real reform. I would say the stagnation of all the steps that relate to pension reform. And there are no factors, the current factors necessary for pension reform -- I repeat, the childization of wages, unemployment, the departure of our citizens abroad -- all of this remains out of consideration and has been overlooked by pension reform. Dear colleagues, the bill not only proposes to abolish pension reform, but the bill proposes to consider and change specific points, specific legislative positions, of what today has distorted pension reform in existing legislation. This is to return the retirement age, to return the minimum pension by age; to adjust the pension entitlement by disability; to take into account, when assigning a pension, the salary for any 60 calendar months, i.e. as it was for the pension reform; to determine the average salary for calculating the pension by applying the average salary for one calendar year that precedes the year of retirement. Also, the 6th position of the bill refers to an increase in the size of the pension, which is very important and is also the essence of pension reform. In addition, the bill proposes to amend the Ukrainian Act on State Social Assistance to Persons. Who do not have the right to a pension or a disability," as well as the Science and Technology Act. I'm saying that all of these factors that are worked out in the bill are systemic and they touch on what's going on, well, the return of the active pension legislation that our electorates told us about. The main scientific and expert office is proposing to send a draft for further work. The Committee on Social Policy and Labour, our colleagues on this committee, supported the bill and offered to accept it as a basis. The Committee on Pensioners, Veterans, and Disabled Persons has been appointed.
ParlaMint-UA_2013-10-25-m0.u78	Let me finish.
ParlaMint-UA_2013-10-25-m0.u79	Having determined the inadequacy of the pension reform carried out, he suggests that the room be determined by voting because the votes on the committee were distributed in a comparable manner. Dear colleagues, as chairman of the committee, I ask you to support this bill, which returns the legislative field that our electorate demands today. Thank you for your attention.
ParlaMint-UA_2013-10-25-m0.u80	People's deputies please sign up for questions. National MP Pober Vitalia Klitschka.
ParlaMint-UA_2013-10-25-m0.u81	Please pass the word to Paul Rosenck.
ParlaMint-UA_2013-10-25-m0.u82	The word is given to Paul Rosenck.
ParlaMint-UA_2013-10-25-m0.u83	Paul Rosenco, Vitaly Caller's Faction. Valeriy Mikhailovich, we do have some kind of paradoxical painting with you, that "BACK," other opposition forces are offering different options for getting out of this collapse, which today is where the pension system is. We make laws on the limitation of pensions and pensions for seniors, we make laws that are supposed to move the pension system. In particular, the strike faction introduced a bill on the introduction of a cumulative pension system and the introduction of a second level pension insurance. We're introducing legislation to reverse pension reform. But the government, which makes this impression, neither lets us work nor lets us do anything. Here's a question for you. Do you have any government initiatives on the committee that would give impetus?
ParlaMint-UA_2013-10-25-m0.u84	Thank you for asking, dear colleague. You know, there were committee hearings yesterday on the issue of the accumulation system, and I mentioned on behalf of the committee and unfortunately I should say, really in the process of reforming the pension system of Ukraine, in the process of improving the payment of pensions to our citizens and in general in the process of ensuring not only the names of pensions, but that the pension would really be a pension for Ukrainian pensioners, unfortunately, I would say that there was stagnation and a halt to any initiative by the authorities to improve pension insurance and in general to find the realities of ensuring all that the problems of the Ukrainian pension are being addressed. Unfortunately, bills that would improve today, the level of pension insurance, bills that go to what touches pension reform from the government, unfortunately, there is no.
ParlaMint-UA_2013-10-25-m0.u85	People's MP Pankevitch, Freedom faction.
ParlaMint-UA_2013-10-25-m0.u86	Please give the word to Alexander the Peace.
ParlaMint-UA_2013-10-25-m0.u87	Turn on the microphone, Alexander Mirny.
ParlaMint-UA_2013-10-25-m0.u88	Alexander Mirny, the All-Ukrainian Freedom Union. Respectable Society! Note how much for one, indeed, the head of the party, and the Party of the Regions, is not in the head of the Party of the Regions of Mikoli Janović Azarov, there is no faction of the Party of the Regions. How it is done! It's like nobody's interested in pension reform, nothing. That's why I have a question for Valery Mikhailovich. Valeriy Mihajlovich, what do you think we should do with you in the end to force the nationals to carry out their duties? Maybe invite Mikola Janovich to be here for eight hours, and then we have a chance to review the pension reform. Thank you for your answer.
ParlaMint-UA_2013-10-25-m0.u89	Thank you, dear colleagues, for asking such a sharp question. You know, my belief that they're not paying attention to social issues, to the acute social distress of our pensioners, veterans and disabled people, and what they hear today at this moment, and they're listening, by the way, to the work of the Supreme Council on people's pressing issues. It seems to me that today we need to pay attention to those factions that today show disrespect for these issues, to pay attention to what people know and hear about them. I'd like to call people's deputies, there's not populist laws, there's bills that relate to what the voters called for, and they asked for attention during the elections, including, first of all, pension reform. I urge you to come back, not only to be in the hall when hunting and.
ParlaMint-UA_2013-10-25-m0.u90	Please sign up for the factions. Faction of the Party of the Regions, National Deputy Chechetov.
ParlaMint-UA_2013-10-25-m0.u91	Respectable voters, respectable radio audiences! A serious question is being considered, and the Freedom faction stands on the ears, whistles, screams, does not really want to address the most critical issue of the day. I would like to begin my statement with such an easy anecdotes from the Gorbachev restructuring, when the lecturer went to the rostrum and asked questions in the hall. He says what's easier to build, Communism or Sarai? Well, the people shook their shoulders, and he said, "It's easier to build communism, of course, because to build a barn, the boards are necessary." So today, in order for us to adopt laws that you've been populistally writing, we need resources. The resource may be a credit, budgetary, investment private resource. There's no budget money, credit money has to be paid and paid. You're criticizing Nikolai Janović Azarov today, and he's in an investment forum in Crimea today. This is a forum that, using the Crimea site as much as possible, we can attract huge amounts of investment in industry to earn businesses. You see, there is an industry, Greece is forced to sell its national assets to close budget gaps and credits to the European Union. And today we're not going that way. We held the largest forum in Donetsk. You could say it's the Alma mater of the Ukrainian industry, with the participation of the President. The main objective of this forum was to attract investment. I'm holding a larger forum in the Crimea. Nikolai Janović Azarov went there and, in my opinion, his presence in the Crimea a thousand times more effective and productive than listening to this demogogia, this noise, this scream, this scream, etc., etc. Therefore, with regard to social security, I can officially say that the new budget will provide for an increase in social standards, but a real increase, without deceiving what will be earned, will be clear in this budget. If we can exceed economic growth in the first half of the year, it will be a correction and again it will be a solution to social programmes and problems. But it will be real money, without any deception. I apologize to the radio audience.
ParlaMint-UA_2013-10-25-m0.u92	Thank you. Have a seat, please. The People's Deputy Bublik, Freedom faction, is invited to speak. A representative of the Freedom faction is invited to speak. Please don't waste time.
ParlaMint-UA_2013-10-25-m0.u93	I'd like to give it to Ruslan Zelik.
ParlaMint-UA_2013-10-25-m0.u94	Come on, please.
ParlaMint-UA_2013-10-25-m0.u95	Ruslan Zelik, the All-Ukrainian Freedom Union. Respectable Society! You know, there's been a lot of talk about pension reform in this room. Well, very many hours have been discussed the inadequacy of this pension reform. I think that this pension reform has been mentioned in every family, for it has affected every family. I think the tears of those women who don't have the opportunity today and think about how to cut their life expectancy by 30 years, I think they're boiling on the heads of those people who accepted that reform. Now for the legislative acts. With regard to the Law. The bill (2934) we agree that it aims to bring down many of the negative aspects of pension reform. In addition, we will support him. The only thing that concerns us is the unwarranted exclusion, the separation of prosecutors in the bill. I think this article will have to be taken away from the authors. Regarding Bill 2934. It's much more cosmetic, as if by "improvement" the desire of the government, the government of Azarov and the Party of Regions to bring together a community of cashless exchange. The Honorary Society, this bill is essentially the recognition of the Azarov Party of Regions and Government that the pension reform has failed completely, has failed completely, because there is no way to fill the Pension Fund with money, and they're trying to fill out this Pension Fund at the expense of those people who exchange money on the bracelet. That is why we will not support this bill. This is also a violation of the Memorandum signed by the Cabinet of Ministers and the National Bank of Ukraine with the International Monetary Fund under stand by. This is a violation of Ukraine’s international agreements and obligations. Thank you for your attention. Glory to Ukraine!
ParlaMint-UA_2013-10-25-m0.u96	Thank you. Dear people's deputies, you've screamed, I haven't heard of any lines you can't talk about, because you're yelling and you're obstructing work. People's deputy Yatsenuk, the Fatherland faction, is invited to attend.
ParlaMint-UA_2013-10-25-m0.u97	We have counted that 35 deputies from the Party of Regions have come and decided to vote in favour of abolishing one of the most shameful reforms in Ukraine, namely pension reform. Shame on the Party of Regions! And now about the Pension Fund and about this reform, which, as if the Party of Regions, along with Azari, which, by the way, was assigned by the regionals and the communists together, in 2010, tried to accept as a great benefit to the people of Ukraine. I now have a detailed report on the activities of the Ukrainian Pension Fund. Let me put out a few figures to understand what's going on in the country in general after this pension reform has been adopted. All right. The real deficit in the Pension Fund budget last year is 27.2 billion dollars, of which 15 billion are state budget funds, 11 billion are temporary cash breaks. Attention! During this period of time, the Pension Fund borrowed another 37.2 billion dollars. When we do a simple arithmetic problem and we add up how much the Pension Fund owes today, that figure is 64.4 billion dollars. I officially declare that the Pension Fund, after the reform of Yanukovicz-Azarov, is a bankruptcy. He is incapable of fulfilling his obligations. The other one. After the Party of Regions said that everyone would be happy and that pensions would rise, we estimate that the so-called additional economy from the Pension Fund has accounted for 2.6 billion dollars in total. At the same time, hundreds of thousands of people retire five years later and have been further increased by 10 years of insurance. During the last year, the pension fund and the government of Azarov did not pay each pensioner, taking into account the real salary level of more than 500 dollars a month. Five hundred dollars was not received by every pensioner. Third. In addition, the Pension Fund has a debt that no one knows about, the figure of this debt, is a judicial decision. These are court decisions for children of war, these are court decisions for participants in the liquidation of the Chernobyl disaster, these are other social costs, the level of debt that reaches up to 30 billion dollars, but which neither the Pension Fund nor the Ministry nor Azar personally knows. So first, we demand.
ParlaMint-UA_2013-10-25-m0.u98	Thank you, Arseny Petrovich. Have a seat, please. Dear colleagues! Then I'll have to give Chetchev my word. If you agree, I'll give it to him. He didn't finish either. 30 seconds, let's finish and then give Chechtavo again.
ParlaMint-UA_2013-10-25-m0.u99	Thank you. Therefore, the distinguished national MPs and the dear people of Ukraine! There can be no such thing as one of the key bills of the country - the restoration of justice in pension reform - being considered in an empty hall, the absence of a speaker from the regionals! In the absence of the region itself! In the absence of the Prime Minister of Ukraine and key ministers! You don't care about the fate of Ukraine! Your pension, you think, is secured. But we want to send you to a minimum pension for a thousand dollars. And that's the right thing to do. [[Applause]]
ParlaMint-UA_2013-10-25-m0.u100	I can't stop the question right now. Turn on Chechtov's microphone.
ParlaMint-UA_2013-10-25-m0.u101	Ladies and gentlemen of the people! A party of regions has spoken and will speak the truth! [[B in m in s a l in]] We'll never go through deception. And because we're telling the bitter truth, it's always unpleasant, people support us, people vote for us. We're with people! We're not going to build on a boulder on U.S. populism. I say again, money doesn't fall from the sky. The growth of the economy will generate resources. The growth of the economy will depend on investment. Investments will come from both the Donetsk forum and the Crimea forum where Azarov is! Businesses will be made, volumes will be increased, payments will be made. Social benefits will be increased. But these are real amounts, not those that will be recorded in the paper.
ParlaMint-UA_2013-10-25-m0.u102	Thank you. National MP Simonenko Peter Mikolaiovich, a faction of the Ukrainian Company, is invited to speak. You didn't get in the way, so let's get out of here. Now the faction leaders will come out of the factions, and then you'll get a replica. Sit in your place of work, please. Let me finish. Please come in.
ParlaMint-UA_2013-10-25-m0.u103	Dear citizens of Ukraine! Dear voters! The very shameful reform, a pension that has been discussed here, has been imposed by the International Monetary Fund. It was at the request of the International Monetary Fund that the treacherous conditions were signed (I call the names of these people who signed: Yushchenko, Timoshenko, Pinzenik, Stelmah), who signed a memorandum under which they committed themselves to this pension reform and to increase retirement age. And I've already shown you these documents, distinguished national MPs. This reform was carried out with one goal. On the one hand, it is to meet the requirements of the oligarchs not to care for the elderly, for the future of Ukraine, but, on the other hand, to meet the requirements of the International Monetary Fund – to pay them interest on loans at the right time. I'd like to draw your attention to the fact that this is where the International Monetary Fund wasn't just about the pension, it was about the pension. Commitments were made to increase gas and electricity prices, as well as to reduce the financing of all social programs. Who voted in favour of this reform is said to be shameful? The parties of the regions, the Block of Lithuania, the 40 deputies of BUT and our Ukraine voted in favour of this reform. And the full responsibility lies with these very political powers that voted. The only faction in the Supreme Council that voted against it is the faction of the Company of Ukraine. Next. Cynicism and pharisaicism, which today is being unleashed by political parties that call themselves opposition, is cynicism and pharisaism, and is determined by the fact that they are now fighting for the presidential office and once again want to deceive the people of Ukraine. For 22 years you have been able to corrupt the people of Ukraine. During that time, you ripped Ukraine apart, stretched it out, and drove people out of the country that they had been carrying pots all over Europe, and they didn’t know how to feed and feed their own family. I would like to reiterate once again that it is for your authority that, in 22 years, Ukraine is running across Europe with an outstretched hand. And we're confirming that the very problems of the Pension Fund are not just the problems that, let's say, lie on the surface, and that you're talking about, and that's the result of the economic reforms you've been making. And reforms have led to the fact that national ownership of factories and factories that were built, including your parents and mothers, you stretched your pockets and were driven out of Ukraine practically. This is the result of 22 years of so-called reforms. That's what I'm talking about. Don't forget when you go out on the rostrum and lie again, don't forget that.
ParlaMint-UA_2013-10-25-m0.u104	Finish up, please.
ParlaMint-UA_2013-10-25-m0.u105	Remember that history will never forget your treacherous politics in 22 years. Because it was the very poor that made the country of Ukraine. And for our citizens today, I would like to remind you that in 1991, when you were deceived, Ukraine held a place in the ten most developed countries of Europe and the world. It was Ukraine that was able to be among the leading countries.
ParlaMint-UA_2013-10-25-m0.u106	Thank you. Have a seat, please. Ladies and gentlemen, I now have two colleagues of ours who demand that we stop considering pension reform. It's what everyone supports. [[B in m in s a l in]] These are your colleagues, your colleagues said so. So we will be voting on the bill and continuing this issue during the consideration of the draft legislation on the subject. And now I'm betting on the question of "The Different." People's deputies please sign up. You weren't allowed to speak to the National MP, Sas. People's Deputy Rizanenko, Vitalia Klitschka faction.
ParlaMint-UA_2013-10-25-m0.u107	I'll pass the word to Rosenku from the rostrum.
ParlaMint-UA_2013-10-25-m0.u108	Turn the microphone on in the stands. People's Deputies, Rosenko.
ParlaMint-UA_2013-10-25-m0.u109	Paul Rosenco, Vitaly Caller's Faction. I would like, perhaps, to conclude with the previous topic of pension reform, to say, of course, that all of us, especially the opposition forces, who were present in the room today and wanted to address this issue, are very concerned when in fact the pension reform has not produced any results. But we have another situation. When the opposition forces, when the strike faction registers its bills, want to change the pension system, they want to increase the well-being of our fellow citizens, but no such initiative or party of regions votes. None of this initiative is supported by today’s government. Instead, when we ask, "What do you want from the pension system?" They, the question hangs in the air, they don't offer anything. They want officials to continue to receive pensions of 15,000 dollars, while ordinary Ukrainians will receive a pension of thousands of bracelets. And today we wanted to ask the government exactly the basic question: why can't Ukrainians get their social benefits for three weeks, for three months, for six months? Why can’t people get help on time during pregnancy and childbirth? Why can’t people get unemployment benefits? Why can’t people get their hospital bills? And we have concrete examples of delays in retirement in Ukraine? But today's "Government Day" has become the pharisaic of the government and the Party of Regions. The day of the government in today’s meeting of the Supreme Council of Ukraine was ruined because Santa Azarov did not show up today and Anna Herman told us why he showed up, so it turns out that he is not making any decisions. And then came the people who made the decisions. So, perhaps the reverend Party of Regions is enough to torture Mikola Janovich Azarov? Let's ask the President to resign, because he's not making any decisions. And the people who came to the meeting room today to report to us gave no information. Did we hear from the deputy minister of finance when the social services were unlocked? No, it's not. Did we hear from the minister of social policy, King's Landing, when we're owed wages? No, we didn't. The general phrase is, "We counted the money in the region." Oh, come on.
ParlaMint-UA_2013-10-25-m0.u110	Thank you, sit down. The National Deputy of Tkaukuk, the Vitalia Klitschka faction, conveys the word to the People's Deputy Kaplin.
ParlaMint-UA_2013-10-25-m0.u111	Respectful voters, radio audiences, TV sets, and respected colleagues who stayed here to speak and listen particularly to about pension reform! Chechetov was here talking about the fact that money does not fall from the sky. They're falling down on corruption from the Party of Regions and Communists. Chechetov here said that it was as if Mikola Janovich Azarov would earn something there in Crimea. No, they're resting from their "improvement" in this Crimea, they don't have to deal directly with an ordinary Ukrainian citizen. I would like to address the Donbassians today, who voted for the majority, for independent, sort of independent candidates, for candidates from the Party of Regions and for Communists. You're smart people, and you've been looking closely at who was in the hall. Your so-called Donbas supporters were not here. All of them, along with the government of Azar, with the first deputies of Azarov, fled from the session hall because they had nothing to say to ordinary Ukrainian citizens. Their "improvement" has resulted in 3 million Ukrainians, pensioners, living outside the poverty line and receiving 900 dollars. It's a disgrace! It is a disgrace to this government and to this policy that lasts for 20 years. At the same time, we need to talk about the numbers so that we do not accuse the opposition. I would stress that 3 million Ukrainians get less than 900 dollars, along with customs -- 8,000 dollars, people in pursuit, generals -- 12-15, 30-40,000 dollars, members of the Supreme Council -- 15,000 dollars. And our political power, the leader of the political power of Vitaly Klitschko, has brought to Parliament a bill that is to equalize everyone, without exception, people, in pursuits of you or with a deputy badge or grandmother or grandparents, you have to get the same salary until we get out of this crisis. What should we do in this situation? Where can I get the money? Of course, it should be mentioned that a billion dollars to keep the Supreme Council of Ukraine is a disgrace and a disgrace to a state that is beyond poverty. One billion dollars to the President's Administration, one million dollars to keep the President alive every day, 250 million dollars to fly him, another 300 million to build new houses each year. You are smart people from Donbas, from Western, Central Ukraine from the North and South, and you should remember that in just one year, 80 billion dollars are being stolen by regionals on so - called tender purchases. Today we have to look for a way out and it is, the way out is very simple, the way to Europe gives new and modernizing social standards. But there's another way, we have to figure out the first round with the only candidate. The Mafia, led by Yanukovic, has its only candidate. The opposition forces, the prodigal forces, must have their candidate and break the back of this criminal system, and then the pensioner.
ParlaMint-UA_2013-10-25-m0.u112	Thank you. Have a seat, please. The National Deputy Pekhov, a faction of the Party of the Regions, is invited.
ParlaMint-UA_2013-10-25-m0.u113	Vladimir Pekhov, 64 constituency, faction of the Party of the Regions, Žitomirščina. Dear chairman, distinguished colleagues, distinguished voters, there will be no politics in my speech. It's about a particular problem, it's about the Corestinian City Hospital of the Žitomir Region, which recently celebrated its 100-year-old anniversary. Today, this is one of the most important hospitals in the area. As part of the social initiatives of President Viktor Yanukovic of Ukraine, special attention is paid here to improving the health care of residents in the northern region. But there's a problem that we can't solve on our own -- it's about building the hospital's surgical complex, and its construction started in 1989. Today, the object is in a sealed state. The level of its building readiness is 76 percent. The President of Ukraine’s mission of September 12, 2012, envisioned financing of this facility at the expense of the state budget. Some 50 million dollars are needed to complete the construction. For this reason, I received parliamentary appeals from various executive authorities. Until now, however, the issue remains unresolved. I very much hope and believe that Prime Minister Mikola Janovića Azarov will hear the voters, hear me and help resolve this issue. I would stress that the construction of the surgical center is essential for the inhabitants of the northern region. Please consider my statement to the honourable Prime Minister Mikli Janović Azarov. For the results, please inform me within the specified time limit. I believe you'll help. Thank you.
ParlaMint-UA_2013-10-25-m0.u114	Thank you. Have a seat, please. National Deputy Bukhovec Oleg is handing over the right to speak to the national deputy Lehchenko Olga, a faction of the Ukrainian Company.
ParlaMint-UA_2013-10-25-m0.u115	Olga Levchenko, Ukrainian Comparty faction, city-hero Kiev. Dear colleagues! Respectable voters! We have been discussing pension reform extensively today, called the budget deficit figures of the Pension Fund. And it turns out that it's no longer a secret to anyone that the country is in economic collapse. The Government does not have a full-fledged programme of action, and it only covers holes. Well, look, we've already got our economy, our budget looks like an oak, we can't get all these holes. Throughout the country, the real economy is closing down. And the Government is not taking any action, and continues to report on "improvement". Therefore, the Company, when it comes to pension reform, says that this issue must be addressed in a comprehensive manner: to ensure that all the working people are employed, to re-establish businesses, to create conditions for business development, to remove wages and other incomes. As an example of the fact that we are closing down industrial enterprises specific to Kiev, I was approached by a labour group of state-owned enterprises by the Artillery Weapons Design Office, which is part of the company Ucroboronprom. The enterprise, which employs almost 180 people, operates in the intensive system and performs full-time errands. So, what's the big deal? To date, salary arrears from May to September amount to $3 million,110,000. Workers do not even receive payment on sick leave, as the debt to the Pension Fund has increased to 2 million 350,000 bracelets. Where do we get the Pension Fund if wages are not paid? For four days now, as the work team of the BB "Artillery Weapons" announced the strike, workers are willing to go to everything until the roadblocks are blocked until the payroll is fully repaid. Families of staff have not had regular funding for six months. I recall that the failure to pay wages under article 175 of the Criminal Code of Ukraine constitutes a criminal offence and a violation of workers'labour rights. Therefore, in addressing this rostrum with Attorney General Viktor Pavlovich Pshonka, I request that measures be taken to respond appropriately to the debt owed to the employees of the State-owned company, Artillery Weapons. And I would like to take my statement as a request. Thank you.
ParlaMint-UA_2013-10-25-m0.u116	Thank you. Have a seat. The national deputy Vasil Samoylenko, a faction of the Ukrainian Company, is invited to speak.
ParlaMint-UA_2013-10-25-m0.u117	Ladies and gentlemen, last week, we all witnessed the indignation and indignation of the residents of the first-level Ovruč Region of the Žitomir Region, who blocked the international route, demanding work, paying the wages of the local company Pat "Quarcite". In order to calm people, officials of different levels came together, talking well, and at the age of 10, and the 20th time they promised to resolve the situation, to influence the situation. At that time, beautiful claims about social protection were made by Prime Minister Mikola Janović. Literally for days and on the next day, he claimed that he would pay off his arrears. Similar statements were made today by the minister of social policy, Mrs. But the next thing you know, there's over a billion debts. This is nothing more than the act of insolence and cynicism on the part of officials, employers, both in the business concerned and in Ukraine as a whole. They do not care about the problems of ordinary people, nor does it have any bearing on how the hired workers survive in this situation. Having attended the rally, when I met with the people, I soon became convinced that this inaction of the leaders was the result of impunity, statelessness, and law. To avoid being loud, I'm going to give you some details about the Quarcyt Pat. To the employees of this company, the owner (in paws), and he's been here five times in recent years, he's owed over six million dollars. On this point, the district council held six meetings, and the district council held 12, and there were requests to the Attorney General's Office, the relevant ministries, our deputy Alexander the Jury. They've already entered into the practice that's going into the area, and they've reported that the materials from the enterprise's situation are going to the law enforcement agencies to give legal assessment of the actions of officials in breach of the law on payment of work and deliberately leading the enterprise to bankruptcy. And also for a year and a half, no specifics. On the contrary, the company stopped, paid off its bank for outstanding loans, began to dissipate its production capacity, exhibited nearly 400 workers behind the gate, and security guards at the entrances. Here it is, the beginning and the end of the crime ring: privatization, the benefit of cutting and selling. The law enforcement agencies stand outside and are unable to make a proper assessment. In this situation, we need to immediately adopt the law passed by the leader of the Communist faction, Peter Mikolaiovich Simonnka, to set up 0.5 percent of a penny per day from the amount of unpaid wages. If we adopt this law, it significantly reduces wages. And with regard to the business in question, it is a firm word.
ParlaMint-UA_2013-10-25-m0.u118	Thank you. Have a seat, please. People's deputy Kyle, Freedom faction, is invited to speak. National Deputy Sabi, Freedom faction.
ParlaMint-UA_2013-10-25-m0.u119	Honorable National Deputies, reverend Ukrainian people! On October 15th, in the city of Kaluga, the head of the Party of Regions, who is the Prime Minister of Ukraine, Azarov made another attempt to give up the national interests of Ukraine – and actually attacked part of the sovereignty of Ukraine. On October 15, it signed an agreement with Russia on the creation of the so-called Black Sea Grain Pool, which is to be formed in Ukraine, Russia and Kazakhstan six months later. The government in charge of Azarov tells us that this will enable us to make better money selling our grains to Ukraine. It doesn't really fit the reality. We are told that this structure should be like OPEC, a well - known oil cartel. But OPEC controls more than 50 percent of the world’s oil production. The Black Sea Grain Pool can control up to 20 percent, which will not affect the world's price of grains. The other one. For such a structure to exist, a superstate body must be created. We have a question for Azar. Who gave him the right to sign agreements and part of the sovereign sovereignty to pass on to some supranational authorities? In fact, this agreement to create a superstate body would harm Ukrainian agriculture. The Ukrainian State will have to agree on export quotas and consumption quotas for domestic grains with other countries, which will undoubtedly affect Ukraine’s food security, as crop yields cannot be predicted. In fact, what's going on? Russia certainly needs only one of these agreements: access to Ukrainian railways, access to Ukrainian elevators, Ukrainian ports, because it does not have its developed infrastructure in the Black Sea environment. We all remember Russia’s failure to pass Kazakhstan’s grain through its territory in previous years until it first sold its own grain. In fact, in the structure of this grain pool, Ukraine is 51 percent, Russia is 31, and Kazakhstan is only 18. We consider such actions to be unacceptable to the government of Azar. We demand the immediate publication of the full text of all signed treaties. We believe that this will only harm agriculture – the only sector that is now giving positive dynamics in Ukraine and, in fact, that Ukraine is now so-so-sustaining and can survive further. We will not allow the destruction of Ukraine’s agriculture and the reordering of our exports to third countries. Glory to Ukraine!
ParlaMint-UA_2013-10-25-m0.u120	People's MP Pankević, Freedom faction, gives the floor to the national MP Pavlovski.
ParlaMint-UA_2013-10-25-m0.u121	Andrey Pavlovsky, "Fatherland" faction. Respectable compatriots! Two weeks ago, President Vladimir Putin's statement was made that Gazprom had given direct direction to Ukraine at $260 per thousand. But it has already been discovered that under Ukraine Putin was referring to a foreign middleman company belonging to the sad oligarch of Dmitri Firthash. We demand that the government provide an explanation. How will this private structure, which belongs to Firthash, ensure the stability of gas transit to Europe? And why does Naftogaz, who buys gas at $410, and at the same time, does the private company Furtasha get such a huge discount? And knowing Mr. Fertash's history, it's not that simple. In this connection, the "Fatherland" faction and opposition demand that the government immediately explain how the relationship between Naftogaz and the company Firtash will be regulated? What are their mutual obligations now? When and under what conditions is a private company called the Naftogazu, which is owned by it and its volume, think about it -- more than 7 billion cubic metres of gas?Oh, my God! Would this not result in terrible consequences? Is it the failure of the Naftogaz State Company to fulfil its obligations to our foreign partners? We do not rule out a provocation to accuse Ukraine of failing to meet its direct obligations to our European partners and thereby challenge our country’s European integration. I want to remind you that the Firtasha clan is the one that monopolistically owns the gas distribution system of Ukraine, which privatized almost 100 percent of the gas distribution company. It has almost 100 percent of the Titanic industry. Think about it! The strategic fields depend on the will of one natural person, one oligarchic clan! And I'd like to point out that a bunch of these strategic branches of Firthache were being used for Gazprom loans worth over $2 billion. And isn't it threatened by the strategic sector of Ukraine that is actually under the control of Russia's leadership? And it is in these actions of the Ukrainian authorities and the Antimonopoly Committee, which allowed this, that there is a direct violation of Ukraine's national interests. We demand the prosecution, all the law enforcement agencies.
ParlaMint-UA_2013-10-25-m0.u122	National Deputy Olga Borita, faction of the Ukrainian Company.
ParlaMint-UA_2013-10-25-m0.u123	Honorable Chairman, Honorable Colleagues, Honorable Citizens of Ukraine! Today, I would like to draw your attention to the so-called medical reform again. That is, it's a non-reorganization and re-profile of the hospital, the Starocostinian military hospital of 1067 Starocostiniva Hmelnicki district. As a national MP, I was approached by all the military. In my letter, my voters noted that the vast majority of them, except for retirement, have no income. Because according to the health condition that they have lost in the years of service beyond their age, they are unable to work and receive income from other sources. In modern times, when the cost of treatment has become an disproportionate burden for citizens, the only way to get a decent and healthy health is by calling on the military hospital’s specialists. It is thanks to the diligence, the professionalism, the sensitivity of the medical staff that my countrymen receive that qualified medical care. This was also supported by the pensioners of Shepetowski, Slavussky, Bilogirski, Isiaslavsky, Theophilus, Starocostinov, Hmelnitsky district. From this question we, along with my colleague Spirina Irina Dmitrovna, made a request to the Ministry of Defense, to the Cabinet of Ministers. Answers received from First Deputy Prime Minister Arbusov, the Minister of Defence of Swanev, testify that the hospital will not be protected. Of course, top government officials assure us that the level of health care for citizens will not deteriorate. But will there be any positive examples of such successful reforms in the country? Doubtful. After all, the hospital had already warned that from January 1, 2014, medical personnel would be reduced from 88 to 42. And the veterans, consider, out of the glory of the city, Shepeter shall be sent to the city of Hmelnitsk, to the hospital. And that's 100 kilometers from a populace. Thus, the factions of Communists repeatedly turn to the Ministry of Education to prevent the treatment of our citizens from getting worse. To prevent the closure of hospitals and other medical facilities. And that, for us, for the MPs, is a top priority. I'm asking you to consider my speech a parliamentary request before.
ParlaMint-UA_2013-10-25-m0.u124	Thank you. Have a seat, please. The national deputy of Goncharov, a faction of the Ukrainian Company, is invited to the presentation.
ParlaMint-UA_2013-10-25-m0.u125	Dear voters, every day we hear abrasive things from the minister of agrarian politics that have been able to achieve the growth of gross agricultural production, positive dynamics and so forth. But what do we really see? People in the village became more difficult and difficult to live. Agrarians and authorities speak different languages. They tell her about their troubles, and she boasts of record crops. It's like a silent dialogue with the deaf. Yes, the milk producers of the Biloukurakina and Triotic regions of the Luhansk region for the second year are unable to obtain money for their products. There are some receipts coming from the government offices. And how do you explain to your children the Zaiki Yuryu Viktorovich of the village, who was owed more than 30,000 dollars to go, buy coal, and just survive. The farmers of the village of Kabichivka, in the region of Markov, cannot be counted for land rations. The village's wages are lowest, pensions are lowest, unemployment is highest. Deputies in the Luhansk region who have addressed me are concerned about this situation. Because fiscal and bureaucratic rovers over the village have spread so much that no white world can be seen. The village began to be viewed as an offshore area where agrarian businessmen launder money and hide profits. Today we are taking a course in agrarian oligopolies. The de facto government has begun to purchase medium-sized agricultu assets with large food-export-oriented holdings. This will lead to the fact that Ukrainian agriculture will not have its own pies, not its real prospects of working. A barbaric attitude toward the earth. We all remember that during the Nazi occupation, Ukrainian black lands were exported to Germany by echelons. What's happening to us black people right now is a real disaster, which is a hammock, a disrespect for the ground. The new masters have forgotten what seismics are. From year to year, the sunflower, raps, shines. Organic fertilizer, the foundation of agriculture, is forgotten. But without organics on naked chemistry, the earth will be fertile for a short time. That's why we can see, we've pulled everything out of the earth and we're giving it up as insolvent. Today, in Lugansk, Donetsk, Zaporozhi, Mikolai, hundreds of thousands of hectares of degraded and underproductive land that need conservation. With such a view to the earth, all Ukraine will become incorruptible. I went to Belarus, thought it was good, and it was good. The village is developing. The position of the Ukrainian Company is not the sale of land. Provide peasants with cheap loans to develop cooperatives. Create conditions for the collapse of agricultural products for real producers. And the main thing is the footage. Agriculture should not be run by people who know the village only from a plate under their noses. Thank you.
ParlaMint-UA_2013-10-25-m0.u126	Thank you, Sergey Vasilovich. Have a seat. The national deputy Haydosz, a faction of the Party of the Regions, is invited to the presentation.
ParlaMint-UA_2013-10-25-m0.u127	Istvan Haydos, faction of the Party of the Regions. Dear chairman, distinguished national deputies, distinguished listeners! Last year, the Supreme Council of Ukraine implemented the European Charter of Regional Languages and Minorities by adopting the Ukrainian Law on the Principles of State Language Policy, thus bringing our legislation closer to European norms and standards for the protection of minority rights. According to paragraph 4 of the Final Provisions Act, the Cabinet of Ministers and the relevant ministries are obliged to ensure, within three months, that their legislation is brought into conformity with this Act. This document also provides that the authorities, institutions and organizations, their officials, and, more importantly, all citizens are informed of the rights and obligations defined by this law. I would like to point out that the law was being implemented slowly during 2013. Although some of the provisions of this law are currently being implemented, many of them have, unfortunately, not been implemented. This is confirmed by the monitoring carried out jointly by the people’s deputies, leaders of public organizations of national minorities. This also came from representatives of national and cultural communities during our committee's retreat to the Zakartat region. There are several reasons for not doing so. Basically, it is a lack of funding, a lack of knowledge of the law itself by officials of the local authorities, and in some cases simply a failure to do so. In response to my request, the Ukrainian Ministry of Culture informed that a list of legal and regulatory acts had to be adopted to ensure the implementation of this law. And it is for the Ministry of Justice and the Democratic Republic of Ukraine that it is the task of ensuring that the relevant draft legislation is prepared for submission to the government. So I would like to go to the government and the designated central ministries and authorities to speed up the preparation of the relevant documents and to provide for the next year's draft State Budget for the implementation of this law to the fullest extent. Please consider my statement as a request to the Prime Minister of Ukraine. Thank you for your attention.
ParlaMint-UA_2013-10-25-m0.u128	Thank you. Have a seat. Oksana Prodan, Vitaly Klitschka Faction. Turn on the microphone, please.
ParlaMint-UA_2013-10-25-m0.u129	Please pass the word Dubnevich Jaroslav.
ParlaMint-UA_2013-10-25-m0.u130	Jaroslav Dubnevich.
ParlaMint-UA_2013-10-25-m0.u131	Good afternoon, Mr. Head, honourable deputies! Jaroslav Dubnevich, Vitalia Klicka faction, 120 constituency. Prior to the review and adoption of Ukraine's State budget for 2014, I want to address one of the most anticipated sources of development expenditure, the State Regional Development Fund. This is a real source of public budget funds to be used to rebuild and build schools, gardens, and hospitals. The amount of the fund, in accordance with the rules of the Budget Code, should be at least 1 per cent of the general budget fund. In a simple language, if we don't have another manipulation of the state's financial plan, it's going to be 3.5 billion dollars a year. By the way, I'm saying this for government officials, for this reason, the sum of the fund is a direct commission from the President of Ukraine, distributed by the media after the last meeting of the Council of Regions. Just in case, in 2013, spending on the State Regional Development Fund was three times less than the budget code, 980 million. I hope that Ukraine's draft State Budget 2014 will implement the Budget Code, and the Fund will be fully operational in 2014. Yet any good work can be lost through bureaucracy, paper procedures that cool down content and chronic treasury barriers delay the use of funds. Along with the People's Deputies of the People's Party, we decided to take a separate initiative on this issue. The logic of the initiative in the State Regional Development Fund is 70 percent of the budget according to the size of the population in the area, the city of Kiev and Sevastopol, and the distribution of 30 percent of the budget, taking into account a number of socio-economic indices. In our view, nothing prevents the government from budgeting these 70 percent of the budget in the form of subsidies to the district and city budgets of Kiev and Sevastopol. There is nothing to wait for in June and May when the government will be able to approve projects to be funded by the fund. The construction of schools and hospitals, gardens, and buildings of the JCG should not begin in August and September. We have to stop when roads fly when it snows, and artificial works are done at a minus temperature. Of course, such an order, not by word, but by deed, means the real decentralization of one of the largest sources of development in the state budget, will not be the very establishment of the government. But I am now addressing the majority deputies, who have been very aware of this problem in a year, and I ask your support. On behalf of the Lviv deputies, I appeal to you, distinguished majority deputies, to us members of the Lviv region are in pain for building up their homeland because it is in ruins. I believe.
ParlaMint-UA_2013-10-25-m0.u132	Thank you, sit down, please. People's MP Motchov Alexander, Vitaly Klicka faction.
ParlaMint-UA_2013-10-25-m0.u133	Alexander Motchov, Vitaly Klitchak Faction. Dear Chief! Dear colleagues! The inaction of power has always been actively discussed and criticized, there are always better and there are worse periods for the budget economy, and there is an increase in investment attractiveness. But this situation that has been created in recent years, and over the last six months, it's going beyond the limits of what's allowed, it's going to make you think about the existence of any of the values of today's government. Loud statements and political promises mask the total destruction and disfavor of our citizens, especially in rural areas. To draw conclusions on the situation in the country, we can rely on two reasons: first, the number of calls by our citizens who come to the post office as Ukraine's national deputy I'm sorry. I'm sorry. I'm sorry. I'm sorry. and people's complaints about personal acceptance of citizens, analyzing which, to talk about improving these people, it's simply impossible. The second is the figures that clearly speak for themselves and without unnecessary words. In 2013, industrial production decreased in comparison to the same period in 2012. The Ukrainian economy in the second quarter decreased by 1.3 percent, more than a quarter earlier. Direct investment in Ukraine in the second quarter of 2013 was reduced for the first time since 2010. The Cabinet of Ministers has accumulated a huge social debt. People do not receive unemployment, pregnancy, childbirth, child care, or disability benefits, paid in all areas. And these payments should be paid by people who find themselves in a situation where they need them more than any of us. The so-called "reform" of today's power in all areas of the functioning of our state only leads to a deterioration of the economy and poverty of the people of Ukraine. Pension reform nearly tripled the pension deficit and turned the lives of our citizens into the expectation of retirement. Medical reform reduces hospitals, reduces jobs, and worsens medical services. After medical reform, the government in the rural area. Now, too, not everyone can expect to even get to the nearest hospital. From the capital of the country, local self - government is destroyed. How long will the illegal Kyiv City Council last? The Council has repeatedly considered the question of the appointment of local elections in Kiev, but the vote has been broken down, not by the faction of the Party of the Regions. I want to turn to the pro-dominant deputies: And what results do you expect from the capital electorate after this lawlessness? To sum it up, I want to say that it can't go on like this.
ParlaMint-UA_2013-10-25-m0.u134	Thank you, sit down, please. National Deputy Sich, Freedom faction. He's giving the word to the People's Deputy Illenka.
ParlaMint-UA_2013-10-25-m0.u135	Andrew Illenko, faction of the All-Ukrainian Freedom Union, city of Kiev. Dear voters, dear colleagues! For several months now, the city of Kiev has experienced a wave of repression against the freeman, the patriots who are protecting their city, who are protecting the rights of the local community to their self - control, who are fighting against the illegal Kyivrada, who are protecting Kiev from raiders and illegal fences. And so we decided on October 28th at 11 a.m. on Monday to conduct mass harassment of the Ministry of Internal Affairs, requiring that political repression be stopped against the liberals and other patriots. Today, about two dozen freemen are under the criminal pressure of the repressive Yanuković machine for their active struggle for Ukrainian rights, including: Peter Kuzik is the deputy head of the Kyiv city organization of the All-Ukrainian Freedom Association, which is a criminal conduct against the usurpation of the public council at the KMDA. Jaroslav Lisenko, head of the Solomyan district organization of the All-Ukrainian Freedom Association, is immediately two tours, for fighting against the illegal public council and for fighting the aunts on May 18th. So did Alexy Vorontsov and Sergey Boyko. And Sergei Bondar, Ruslan Andriyko, a member of the political tradition of the All-Ukrainian Freedom Union, as well as Vasil Zosula and Alexander Kolesnichenko, the head of the Vosii district organization, for fighting against the illegal Kyivrad. Victor Postar and Igor Putetnuk, as well as Ruslan Andriyko and Sergey Bondar, are responsible for the alleged dismantling of Lenin's monument in Poltavsk. Oleg Shevchuk, Mikola Smyrnov, Sergey Neciporenko resisted the land's “regions” in Bravara. Mikhailo Kubliy and Sergey Aksenyuk have already received criminal sentences for resisting the land-based "regionals" in Kiev. Kirilo Babintsov, head of the press service of the Kiev City Organization, has already been sentenced for showing disrespect, so-called, for communist symbols. Artem Semenyhin has already been sentenced for fighting with one of the candidates from the Party of the Regions in the Sumskie region. Crimes are now being fabricated against a single candidate from all opposition forces in the 223rd Shevchenkov district of Kiev, against Yuri Lewchenk. There is also a case against Eugene Karas, Vladimir Bokniak, against Artem Ruban. In fact, there are about 20 liberators under criminal press today. These are the people who are really fighting for the rights of Ukrainians, for the rights of China. These are the people who, not in words, are actually proving that this is a real young generation of Ukraine that will sweep away this rotten party of regions and their holly-ministered Communists who have opened their mouths here and say something about it that is small. You didn't do anything to protect the people! You, by feeding the Party of Regions and Oligarchs, shut your mouth and shut your mouth! And these people will rule the country very soon. And then you'll feel like real Ukrainian power. Glory to Ukraine!
ParlaMint-UA_2013-10-25-m0.u136	Olga Mikhailenko, a faction of the Ukrainian Company, is invited to the presentation.
ParlaMint-UA_2013-10-25-m0.u137	Olga Mikhailenko, faction of the Communist Party of Ukraine, Hersonian. Dear "liberals" when you charge Ukraine, the Ukrainians will all cry, know about it. Dear Igor Grigorovich, distinguished national MPs, voters! Ukraine’s company has repeatedly drawn the attention of government officials to the continuation of the genocide of the rural population. First, market reforms, market reformers sitting in this room, have destroyed large - scale agricultural production, and today they are destroying the agricultural medicine industry. Even an uneducated person realizes that rural populations, mostly retirement age, need to be treated in rural district hospitals. And I'm sad to say today that the local Hersonian deputies, who represent the ruling Party of Regions and so-called opposition forces, such as BUTU, "One Centre", "National", are voting for the liquidation of the district hospitals, taking away the last hope in the older generation. Because it's clear to everyone that an elderly person is not going to the center or to the district hospital. To her, the local hospital is her salvation. Unfortunately, Hersonsky's hospital has already been demolished with Strogannowski and is being reorganized in Ascania Nova, a district hospital in Chaplin County, where the world-renowned biosphere reserve, which is visited by more than 100,000 tourists annually and which serves the inhabitants of 7 inhabited sites, has been buried by the young 48-year-old chief physician of this hospital, Sergey Ivanovic, who was led to the death by those who are implementing this anti-national medical reform. They are being evacuated to the Sadovsky district hospital of the Galoprist region, the Archangel of Wispopolis. And so throughout Hersonland. And the head of the Borislavsky Paradise Department says that I had a chance to stay in office, and you, the Communists, took that chance because you didn't support medical reform in the area; here I am getting fired. What a degree of cynicism of authority to destroy hospitals, schools, kindergartens! The Communist Party of Ukraine demands that this insolence be stopped and that the district hospitals and doctors who are dedicated to the countryside today be left in peace and help the country’s medicine to provide it with the necessary modern equipment. The result of reform — medical care has become inaccessible to a simple person. Without a quick help, people just die. If this is the goal of reform, you gentlemen are.
ParlaMint-UA_2013-10-25-m0.u138	Thank you. Have a seat, please. The national deputy Guzenko, a faction of the Party of the Regions, is invited to speak. Bojarsky gave the word to Guzenku. Dear colleagues, we're always like this with you. All your colleagues sent it, everyone wrote it, so. [[B in m in s a l in]] Come on, please.
ParlaMint-UA_2013-10-25-m0.u139	Thank you. Constantine Guzenko, Dniproperty. Dear colleagues! The city of Dniprodijnski is the third city in the Dnipropetrovsk region. There are 250,000 people in the city. Today, the city needs our help. First, the growth of industrial potential over the past few years has caused significant damage to the environment. There are 55 large and medium - size enterprises in the city, most of which are determined by considerable energy intensity, resulting in a large number of wastes and wastes of pollutants. According to one resident, more than 500 pounds [500 kg] of harmful substances have been found in recent years. Within the city, in the immediate vicinity of the central part, there are 5 landfills of the former uranium production of the Transnistrian Chemical Plant, which contains 13 million tons of radioactive waste. This means that one city dweller has 53 tons of radioactive waste. Public support is needed to solve the environmental problems of the city. As honourable deputies, we must fulfill the obligation of the Supreme Council of the past. First of all, to determine the status of the regime territory of the former uranium production of the Transnistrian Chemical Plant. Change Ukraine’s Land Code for the Liberation of Uranium and Physically Protected Enterprises. Adopt the Ukrainian Law on the Status and Social Protection of Uranian Veterans. Second of all, honourable deputies. An important question for the city is the bridge crossing of the Dnipro River, which is the only source of connection between the residential and industrial parts of our city. I'm going to point out that there are 254 residential buildings in the area of the left-hand side, where there are 120,000 inhabitants. Yet most of the people on the left bank are busy in the industrial enterprises of the coastal part of the city. The total cost of the construction work for the reconstruction of the road cover, the reconstruction of the deformative and constructive elements in the Dnipro River is 180 million dollars. But the primary need is for urgent repairs of the emergency temperature strains that are in poor condition. The cost of repairing the seams is 50 million dollars. Deputies! The inhabitants of Dniprožinska look forward to your support. Thank you for your attention.
ParlaMint-UA_2013-10-25-m0.u140	Thank you. People's MP Melnik, Freedom faction.
ParlaMint-UA_2013-10-25-m0.u141	Respectable Society! On the night of September 27th to 28th this year, the inhabitants of Volodymyr-Wollin County received a gift from the owners of the bird factory, the brand "Chebaturka", an unpleasant gift until their 1025th birthday. Because it broke through the dam on the plant's footpaths, and dangerous dirt spilled in a large area, clearing the side of the road of Lviv Covell. The greatest threat is that near the point of the spill, there are so - called military waters, which have aquifer connections to the surrounding lakes and the West Bug River, located a few miles from the border with the European Union. The current owners of the Volodymyr-Volin bird factory are the Ukrainianists of the Kharkov dobkina, where Markov is now. And these newly developed exploiters of the docks, after taking possession of the factory in Volina, are, with the silent agreement of the control services, committing environmental lawlessness on the western border of Ukraine. For years, Vladimir Volinska bird factory has been mismanaged. But the oligarchs of Kharkiv, the oligarchs of Ukraine, receive profits and believe that they stand above the law and the people. About this environmental disaster, which could at any time become a disaster, MPs warned the government for two years. Sadly, though, the authorities have not heard us or heard us, for they are completely obsessing over industrial criminals. The city chief of Volodymyr-Wolinski in this extraordinary situation did not see the environmental threat, but he had a political subtext in the dirt. People’s right to a clean environment and thus the right to life and health are being defiantly violated throughout the country. Unfortunately, when it comes to big money, the profits of the oligarchs from the Party of Regions, the gift of speech and hearing is lost automatically by officials and community voters. On my parliamentary request for violations of the environmental standards of the bird factory, I received a formal receipt. What will now be said by those who have checked out that there are no health risks, that everything is normal? Respectful association, saving money by the harkov oligarchs for the disposal of hazardous wastes of production, leads to dozens of hectares of land near the bird factory being burned with toxic substances, and groundwater being contaminated with pathogens. Dear Society, The conclusion is that the oligarchs simply ignore the problems of the Volinians. And they say they won't let us, the All-Ukrainian Freedom Union, into the Harks.
ParlaMint-UA_2013-10-25-m0.u142	Thank you. [[Applause]] National MP Momot, faction of the Party of the Regions. One minute.
ParlaMint-UA_2013-10-25-m0.u143	Alexander Momot, 27th constituency, Dnipropetrovsk. Dear colleagues, the Honourable Head, question number one, which concerns Ukrainians, is the state of housing and utilities, the work of the JECK. It's a closed circuit. We don't pay, Jacky doesn't do anything. Housing and utilities are falling apart. I'm asking all of you, I'm asking the government, the budget committee, to provide you, colleagues, in the 2014 budget, three billion dollars to support OSBB. This is going to be the way out of the deadlock. Please consider my speech as a parliamentary address to the head of the government of Azar. Thank you, Igor Grigorovich.
ParlaMint-UA_2013-10-25-m0.u144	Thank you.
ParlaMint-UA_2013-10-25-m0.u145	Thank you for your attention, colleagues.
ParlaMint-UA_2013-10-25-m0.u146	I am now addressing the Supreme Council of Ukraine's apparatus for conducting a commission inspection of the Presidium microphones. In the event that damage is detected, which has caused damage to the property of the State, please make an appropriate act, make an assessment, and place an account on the National Deputy of the Fatherskina faction, Alexander Briginci. [[Applause]] Ladies and gentlemen, let me remind you that next week the national deputies are working with the electorate. The next plenary meeting will take place on Tuesday, November 5, at 10 a.m. The morning session of the Supreme Council of Ukraine is closed.
