ParlaMint-UA_2013-09-20-m0.u1	Good morning, distinguished national deputies, invited guests of the Supreme Council! People's deputies, please prepare for registration. Prepared? Turn on the "Race" system. A total of 339 national deputies were registered. The morning session of the Supreme Council of Ukraine is open. Today is the birthday of the national deputy Boyko Volodymyr Semenović. [[Applause]] And the birthday of Irina the Igorina the Sekh. Let's congratulate them on their birthday. [[Applause]] Dear colleagues, members of the Cabinet of Ministers of Ukraine are taking part in the meeting of the Supreme Council of Ukraine. Let's welcome our government to the Supreme Council. [[Applause]] Present: First Deputy Prime Minister of Ukraine Sergey Hennadiovich Arbuzov, Deputy Prime Minister Boyko. You know, there are a lot of guests in Ukraine today at the meeting of the Yaltic European Strategy. Vice Prime Minister Wilkul is also in Yalta with a work trip. From agrarian politics and food there is Bisuk Ivan Yuriovich, the first deputy (minister of the expedition). Minister of Interior Vitaly Yuriovich Zakharchenko Yes. Minister of Income and Congregations Alexander Viktorovich Klimenko Yes. Minister of Ecology and Natural Resources Proscurakov Oleg Albertovich Yes. From the Ministry of Economic Development, Prime Minister Maksuta Anatoly Arkadyovich (Prasoluov) is on his way. Deputy Minister of Energy and Coal Warfare Bondarenko Andriy Yuriovich is present (in the ministerial mission). Kojara (deployment, "Yaltinian European Strategy", attended by Demchenko Ruslan Mihajlovich, First Deputy. Kozak Vladimir Vasilovich, Minister of Infrastructure, is present. Minister of Culture Novojatko Leonid Mihajlovich Yes. Minister of Youth Safiullin (a vacation), First Deputy Gluschenko Sergey Viktorovich. Yes. Minister of Defence Paul Valentinovich Lebedev Minister of Education and Science Tobacco Dmitry Volodymyrovich (ship), Sulima Eugene Mikolaiovich is present. Richter Raisa Vasilivna is present. Queen Mikhailo Konstantinovich, Minister of Industrial Policy. Minister of Regional Development Dark Hennadi Pavlovich Minister of Social Policy of the Royal Republic. Take part in the events. The present Deputy Minister, Kolomietz, Viacheslav Mikolaiovich. The Minister of Finance is in Yalta. First Deputy Finance Minister Merkovsky Anatoly Ivanovich is present. Lukas Olena Leonidivna is on her way. First Deputy Minister Jemelyanov Inna Ivanovna Head of the State Service in Exceptional Situations, Mikhailo Vasilovich Bolotski. And the First Deputy Minister of the Cabinet of Ministers, Vladislav Valeriyovich. The government is fully stocked. Next. In accordance with article 229 of the Supreme Council Rules from the 10th to the 11th hour of questions to the government. The next order of questioning is proposed: to take the first Deputy Minister of Finance of Ukraine up to 30 minutes, he will report on questions relating to two subjects; 15 minutes to the Head of the State Service with extraordinary situations and answers to written questions from factions; and the rest of the time to ask questions from national deputies to members of the Cabinet of Ministers from a specific subject or question. It's proposed, let's do it this way: the MPs are making a proposal, Anatoly Ivanovich, you have 20 minutes to report, and 15 minutes to the head of the State Service, and 25 minutes to 30 minutes to question the national MPs. What? I'm not done yet. Turn on the microphone of the national deputy sassa.
ParlaMint-UA_2013-09-20-m0.u2	Thank you. Dear Vladimir Vasilovich! National Deputy Sas, Fatherland. Once again, I would like to draw your attention to the fact that we have not yet repealed article 35 of the Cabinet of Ministers Act and the regulations of the Supreme Council. We have an hour of questions to the government. And there it is in both the law and the regulations and the Cabinet of Ministers Act, which are answered by the Cabinet of Ministers. But we have a tradition that there are no reasons why substitutes are invited to the rostrum. I point out to you that it is a violation of the law and disrespect for the Supreme Council. That's the first one. And second of all, I'm asking you to announce who's here from the ministers and who's not here for good reason. Thank you.
ParlaMint-UA_2013-09-20-m0.u3	Dear people's deputies, I told you. I'm glad there are so many guests in our country today. Questions of great importance are being considered. And life can't be stopped. That's why a number of ministers are there. There they planned their performances, exchange their thoughts. And it's no big deal. When the committees consider who will report from the rostrum, you are determined, not necessarily the committee manager, but the deputy, the head of the subgroup, and so forth. Life brings adjustments. Therefore, rather than being dramatic, we give the floor to Anatoly Ivanovich Merkovsky, First Deputy Minister of Finance. Please.
ParlaMint-UA_2013-09-20-m0.u4	Dear Vladimir Vasilovich.
ParlaMint-UA_2013-09-20-m0.u5	You can come in, we'll have a discussion.
ParlaMint-UA_2013-09-20-m0.u6	Ladies and gentlemen, let me inform you about the issues that have arisen from the MP factions at the address of the Ministry of Finance. Twenty-eight questions. And given the time constraints and the common theme of many of these questions, the answers will be given in general. In accordance with article 96 of the Constitution of Ukraine and article 37 of the Ukrainian Budget Code, the Cabinet of Ministers of Ukraine prepared and submitted to the Supreme Council of Ukraine a draft Ukrainian Law on the State Budget for 2014 was approved by the Government Decree of 11 September 2013 (No662). However, there are a number of factors independent of government actions that have a significant impact on the design of the State Budget project for 2014. In particular, there are bills before the Supreme Council that can provide additional revenue to the budget for about 9.6 billion dollars. There are also registered bills that will lead to significant budget losses in 2014, some 9 billion dollars. Bills have also been registered in the Supreme Council, which require additional budget funding for $17.5 billion, and these bills have been registered in the last two weeks, from September 1 to 15. And the obvious thing is that we couldn't count them or evaluate them and reserve the funds in case they were accepted. Also, in the last two weeks of the current month, the government has received a large number of appeals from national deputies regarding the allocation of budget funds for individual budget programs and measures of some 1.8 billion dollars. And such appeals by national deputies continue to be made today. In addition, a series of negotiations have been held since the government's decision to approve the draft budget, which have strategic implications for change, such as energy balance and the development of priority sectors of the State, and reduce subsidies for housing and utilities. Therefore, the government has decided to withdraw from the Supreme Council the draft State Budget Act to finalize the above factors and to analyse the impact of the indicators on the country's socio-economic development and budget. In this version of the draft budget, which was approved by the Cabinet of Ministers, the main macroeconomic indicators of Ukraine's development, which are included in the 2014 budget policy guidelines, were used, as approved by Cabinet of Ministers Regulation No. 213 of 27 March 2013. In particular, the real increase in gross domestic product is 3 percent, the consumer price index averages to the previous year - 8.3, the producer price index averages to the previous - 8.6. The unemployment rate is defined by the International Labour Organization methodology -- 7.1 to 7.4 percent. This will be facilitated by the implementation of the 2010-2014 Economic Reform Programme "Affordable Society, a Competitive Economy - an Effective State", by the continuation of the Ukrainian State's 2-year programme to revitalize the economy. When the draft budget is finalized for the following year, the forecast must be taken into account, which will correspond to the current economic situation in the country as well as in the world as well as to medium-term expectations. The instability of the world economy this year affects Ukraine's economic development and its prospects in the near future. In particular, recessionary processes in the countries of the Erosons continue for the fifth quarter in a row. World steel prices fell by almost 9 percent during the 8 months of this year. In the global financial markets, there is uncertainty about what the US Federal Reserve is saying about the possible decline in support of the US economy. Yes, the interest on the US 10-year bonds has increased almost twice a year, from 1.6 percent to three. There are now adjustments, but radical changes have not yet taken place. For example, the first half of Russia’s capital outflow amounted to nearly $40 billion. External factors affected Ukraine's economy in 2013 as well. In particular, exports of goods declined by 8.5 percent in seven months, and there is no increase in individual industries against last year. Internally, energy efficiency policies and substitution imports have partially reduced imports, decreased by 12.2 percent over seven months compared to the previous year, and accounted for $45 billion. The seven - month balance of payments was positive and was $1.9 billion. During the seven months last year, this balance was negative at $0.3 billion. As for the rise in social standards and the increase in wages that took place this year, this factor has given a positive impetus to stimulating domestic demand. The average monthly nominal salary of a staff member in seven months increased by 8.9 percent to 3,000, 215 dollars, and the real salary for that period was 9.5 percent. The State's measures to stimulate Ukraine's economy include not only direct financing of relevant projects, but also improving the business climate in Ukraine, deregulation of entrepreneurial activities and support for small and medium-sized businesses. In particular, a list of documents of a permissive nature, containing 144 entries, was approved in July. Upon obtaining the documents of a permissive nature, they went to the single window, simplified by the permit procedure in construction from 93 to 23 procedures, as well as a reduction in the number of permits and consent procedures. It's six times short of their time. It also simplifies the licensing mechanism, the number of activities that cannot be carried out by a declaration principle reduced by more than 40 percent, and 22 business licences that are not subject to security risks have been revoked. A list of priority sectors of the economy to stimulate investment activity has been identified. This includes an agro-industrial complex, a residential-communal complex, a machine-building complex, transport infrastructure, a resort-recreational sector and tourism. The State Economic Revitalization Programme 2013-2014 has been approved, which provides support for the core sectors that are developing the largest contribution to GDP, the development of priority, high-tech sectors capable of producing high-cost products. The implementation of the State Economic Revitalization Programme should be carried out by the main budget managers within the framework of the State Budget Act. In addition, the 2014 draft budget proposes to address the question of the prediction of additional State guarantees, some of which may be aimed at financing the actions of the State's economic revitalization programme. Earlier in the draft Law on Budgets, the amount of such guarantees is projected to be up to 30 billion dollars. In addition, in the State Economic Revitalization Programme, the projected amount of resources planned to be involved for the following year is set at EUR 207.2 billion, in which, according to previous estimates, $23.2 billion from the State budget, local budgets - 5.7, loans from international financial institutions - $13.4 billion, and other sources, including the costs of enterprises, and guarantees, amount to EUR 164.8 billion. A system of state-owned export support is also being created in Ukraine, which deals with diversification, traditionally, exports of goods of Ukrainian origin based on demand analysis in foreign markets and the identification of the most promising topics. As for deficits and government debt. With a view to reducing government debt growth and the basic budgetary burden of the government budget deficit next year, 2.7 per cent of GDP is projected to reach 3.2 planned GDP in 2013. This deficit reduction has been identified as a priority in the following year, in line with the President of Ukraine's annual message to the Supreme Council on Ukraine's internal and external status this year, a defined level of deficit is planned to be achieved taking into account the government's approved economic activation programme. With this ratio of government debt to GDP at the end of next year will be about 32.4 GDP, or 548.6 billion dollars. This is the maximum critical value of 60 percent of GDP. At about this level, the ratio of government debt to GDP is planned at the end of last year in individual countries of Eurosonia. In particular, Latvia and Romania accounted for about 40 percent. The following year, the Tax Code provides for a reduction in the corporate income tax from 19 percent to 16 percent, contributing to the recovery of all economic processes in Ukraine and a decrease in the level of economic shadowing. The draft budget does not provide for changes to the Tax Code in the recovery of the income tax. In doing so, amendments to tax legislation are, in our view, the prerogative of the Supreme Council and must be governed by separate laws, as required by the Tax Code. The formation of the income part of the budget next year takes into account the State's provision of active social tax benefits, which will reduce tax burden on taxpayers of 4.4 billion dollars. There is also an investment resource from the granting of preferences to operators and to individual sectors of 67.4 billion dollars, as in the current legislation and according to the volume forecast for this year. According to the Budget Code, the expenditure of the State Regional Development Fund is projected to be at least one percent of the projected revenue of the General Fund of the State Budget project, which will allow the following year to balance public and regional interests towards the socio-economic development of the regions. The amount of such a fund will be about 3.5 billion dollars. In this year, you know what's approved in the budget is 1 billion dollars. The State Budget project provides for an increase in the minimum wage and salary of the staff member of the first tariff level of the Single Tariff Network, taking into account the projected inflation and labour productivity indices, as defined in the annual mission of the President of Ukraine to the Supreme Council and the introduction of new minimum wage levels. and the salaries of the staff member of the first tariff level of the single tariff network are planned to be carried out in stages during the following year. With a view to ensuring adequate social protection for every Ukrainian citizen in the following year, there is also a gradual increase in the size of the subsistence minimum in the respective categories. Pensions in the following year will be implemented in accordance with the rules of applicable legislation in a timely and complete manner. In this way, the Pension Fund will continue to carry out the tasks of recalculation of pensions for citizens who have retired by 2008, increase pension payments for families of disabled persons who have died, increase pension payments for wartime participants, and increase the size of the pensions of military and military personnel who have left the service. In the following year, as in previous years, minimum pensions are paid at a level not lower than the statutory minimum for those who have lost their jobs, which will provide for a gradual increase over the course of the year. The draft budget provides for the centralization of the capital expenditure allocated by the Cabinet and the expenditure of state development in terms of the extent determined in accordance with the legislation, i.e. no disbursement*** of capital expenditure at the main level of the funds. The financing of the road sector next year will be done on the basis of defined sources, first, this is the so-called road fund of 17.4 billion dollars, which is 9 percent more of this year's plan, as well as the financing of the sector, based on the borrowing of international financial institutions, the previous estimate is 2.3 billion dollars, but if there are projects, it is. The amount of expenditure will be increased by State guarantees, as well as by investor costs. With regard to the implementation of the budget in the current year, it should be noted that in eight months, the government's revenues in the economy are government local budgets and all social funds have increased by 7.5 billion dollars, or 1.9 percent more in fact last year, and accounted for 410.4 billion dollars in eight months. Government budget revenues amounted to $217.8 billion, a total of 187.6 billion. In January-August this year, VAT is reimbursed at $36.9 billion, more than 5.8 billion, or 18.8 percent, against last year. The government budget in eight months was 252.1 billion dollars, an increase of 17.9 billion dollars, or 8 percent. Including the general fund's expenditures amounted to $226.4 billion, an increase of $23.3 billion, or an increase of 11.5 percent against the past period. In eight months, the protected and priority expenditure is funded in full terms of need, namely, $221.1 billion, or 98 per cent of the call, including the social expenditure of the general fund, amounted to $188.9 billion, an increase of $21.7 billion, or 13 per cent; the transfer to the Pension Fund amounted to $55.5 billion, including a deficit of 14.5, an increase of 33.1 per cent, the largest increase in expenditure categories. The total budget expenditure of the local budget in eight months was $125.5 billion, or 63.3 years, of 9.8 billion dollars, or 8.5 percent, compared to the previous year. At the same time, expenditures for unprotected budget articles in the local authorities increased by 1.5 billion dollars last year, or 14.4 percent, to 11.9 billion dollars. Protected spending amounts to 113.6 billion dollars, an increase of 8.3 billion, or 7.9 percent, against last year. In doing so, it should be noted that the drinking weight of unprotected expenditure, which has just been highlighted in questions, has increased by 1 percent in the local authorities, which have actually been made in eight months. As of September 1, 2013, there is no debt for employees of budgetary institutions and pensions. Since the beginning of the month of September 18, the State Treasury authorities have listed social funds for their maintenance and basic functions — pensions, relief. The loss of productivity, other social aids amounting to 9.4 billion dollars. In particular, unemployment benefits from the arrival of 400.8 million dollars account for 380 million dollars — that is, funding goes virtually automatically. Treasury continues to make social funds expenditure taking into account incomes and the need for them to make appropriate payments. Thanks to the rational and efficient use of budgetary resources, the government’s budget deficit policies are kept at a lower level than the schedule provides. In 8 months of this year, the budget deficit. The government budget was 34.8 billion dollars, representing almost 69 percent of the annual figure. The annual figure is 50.6 billion dollars. The deficit of the General Fund is 38.4 billion dollars, less than that of 8 months for 6.1 billion dollars. Changes to the current year's budget. Article 54 of the Budget Code sets out the procedure for amending the State budget for the current year with regard to the reduction of budget expenditure. Yes, in case of non-compliance with the quarterly report of the General Fund of the State Budget, more than 15 percent of the amount foreseen for the relevant period is prepared for proposals for changes to the State budget. The quarterly report is presented not later than 35 days after the end of the reporting period. Today, we have no basis for initiating such changes, because we have a much higher percentage of budget implementation. The government is currently working on the drafting of the State Budget for 2014, the development of an appropriate work plan for interested authorities and ministries, local authorities and government proposals. The proposal of the Government of the Supreme Council refers to the request to determine, as soon as possible, the draft legislation that will allow for an increase in the income portion of the budget and direct the earmarked resource to address urgent issues, primarily the social component of the budget, in accordance with decisions taken by the President of Ukraine, the Supreme Council of Ukraine and the Cabinet of Ministers. Once these decisions are taken, the government will prepare draft changes to the budget quickly with the Supreme Council. That's right, a new version of the budget. Thank you for your attention.
ParlaMint-UA_2013-09-20-m0.u7	Thank you. Have a seat. Have a seat. We agreed, we're going to have 10 minutes -- and then I'm going to give you a chance, and the MPs will sign up, and they're going to ask you a question. Please, Head of the State Service on Emergency Situations, Mikhailo Vasilovich Bolotski. Answer to questions of MP factions. Ten minutes, please.
ParlaMint-UA_2013-09-20-m0.u8	Honourable Volodymira Vasilovich, distinguished Ukrainian national deputies, I inform you, taking into account questions from MPs, the situation in the southern districts of the Odessa region, and the measures taken to deal with the natural disaster. From September 10 to 14, in Odessa, rain was expected. But the rainfall was predicted within the average monthly rate for this period or with a slight excess that could fall within 2-3 days. With information on the threat of long-term rainfall in the southwestern areas of Odessa, the General Department of the State Service, with the emergency situation of the Odessa region, immediately formed a force formation of 130 personnel and 40 units of technology to carry out flood management. At the same time, with the readiness and involvement of the response forces ahead of time, by the beginning of the difficulty of raising water levels, information about possible flooding in southwest areas has been provided by telephone to district and district administrations, heads of rural and rural councils. In the event of an emergency or emergency, in the current order of announcement, the State Service announces the central authorities of the executive, the Council of Ministers of the Autonomous Republic of Crimea, the district, Kyivsk and Sevastopol city administrations, which bring this information directly to the population. But in this case, the public service did not limit itself to the announcement -- the Odessa administration -- but it did involve a special composition and technology to inform the inhabitants of the population of the existing threat. The population was proclaimed by rescue workers and representatives of local communities through the bypasses and by loudspeakers installed on the cars of the Chief State Service in the Odessa region. But the situation continued to deteriorate. In the territory of Balgrad, Arcis, Saratsk, and Tatar regions. At a monthly rainfall rate of 46 millimetres, an average of 180 millimetres or 4 millimeters [46 mm] fell. And in the Tarutin region, 280 millimeters, which is 6 times the monthly standard. Such anomalous rainfall, which occurred practically during the period, did not occur for all 120 years of weather observation. The rain floods submerged 449 homes, 91 of which were destroyed, and 85 are in an emergency. The water was damaged by 488 farms. In cooperation with local authorities, 590 citizens from 9 locations were temporarily displaced. They are located in hostels, cultural houses, and relatives. The formation of the public service force was increased to 200 and 60 units of equipment and pumping equipment. A reserve of 130 people and 40 units of specialized equipment was created at the expense of other areas of the area. In the shortest term, the water of all 449 submerged dwellings has been drained. Water has been removed from 750 farms. More than 120,000 cubic metres of water has been diverted by government departments, food, medicine, and relief supplies from submerged homes. To get sick people to health facilities, the rescue technique of the increased service flow has been replaced. With the aim of warning the spread of infectious diseases in submerged areas from 63 wells, 59 have been disinfected. Now the work is continuing. Take samples to analyze the quality of the water from five water towers and five artesian wells. Repetitive work is required to completely deplete wells. The service, along with the veterinary units, has fully collected dead animals and has been disposed of in compliance with established sanitary standards. At this time, the situation in the area has completely stabilized, there is no threat of an increase in submergment, there is a controlled rise in the high water level with a brief rise in the Tatarbunar region. In response to questions raised by MPs, I inform you: On September 13, the President of Ukraine has been instructed by the government to take comprehensive measures to eliminate the effects of the Odessa disaster. The Prime Minister of Ukraine has appointed a task for the central authorities, along with Odessa's Government, to work in the shortest possible time to restore damaged housing, to create normal living conditions for temporarily displaced citizens. A government commission led by Deputy Prime Minister Boyk Yuri Anatoliyovich, who worked directly in the affected areas on September 14th. On September 16, an immediate decision was made by the government to allocate some 105 million dollars to eliminate the consequences of the emergency and to provide relief to disaster victims, such as compensation -- 26 million 500ths, 78 million -- for roads and dams. During the next 5 days, rain is forecast in most areas of Ukraine. In southern and western areas, weather will prevail without significant rainfall, and strong rains with thunderstorms, storms in the west and south of Ukraine will be expected in Crimea and Priazova, with possible winds of up to 15-20 meters per second. The state’s emergency response plan and the government’s emergency response plan are being implemented. According to the plan, the territory of the State is divided into nine areas of operational response. A total of about 42 thousand,500 people were created and formed by an interdisciplinary group of villages, more than 5,000 units of basic technology, 830 fins. From the Ministry of Defence, the State Service, the Ministry of Internal Affairs, the State Agency, the Ministry of Energy and the Ministry of Infrastructure. Special attention is now being paid to the situation of Lvivsky, Zakarpatski, Ivano-Frankivsky, Černivetske oblasts, Volinska, Ravenska, Žitomirsk oblast, Odessa, Mikolaiivsk and Herson region. Organized emergency response measures, such as double monitoring of the hydrometeorological environment, emergency response teams of the Emergency Service, have been put in place to respond to the use of floodwaters and pump equipment; to prepare techniques to deliver a special ingredient to emergency locations and to transport populations in case of submergement. Adjusted escape routes and the complexity area. Posting is provided in high - risk places for transfusions and the destruction of protective structures. Depending on the situation, a number of other measures are being taken as part of the emergency response plan. The situation is under constant control of the ministry. Thank you for your attention.
ParlaMint-UA_2013-09-20-m0.u9	Thank you, sit down. Ladies and gentlemen, we have 18 minutes to ask questions. 10.42, year – 11. Because we have a lot of questions that we have to make decisions about elections. People's deputies please sign up. 20 minutes per question. Don't argue! Why argue? People's deputy Chechetov, please.
ParlaMint-UA_2013-09-20-m0.u10	Dear Mikhail Vasilovich, you have made a very thorough report on the work of the ministry and have always been one of the best in Ukraine, and now. That's my question. What steps is being taken by the Ukrainian State Service to counter the threat of similar emergencies in other regions? And that's the main question. In case of force majeure, do you have coordination with the Ministry of Internal Affairs with the Ministry of Defense? Because sometimes to protect people, it takes intervention and the Ministry of Defence and the Ministry of Internal Affairs to protect lives. How do you coordinate these joint actions? Thank you.
ParlaMint-UA_2013-09-20-m0.u11	Thank you, Reverend Mikhailo Vasilovich. I've already reported from the rostrum, and I've also stressed that the state's emergency response plan is early, early in the April months, to an extraordinary level. We have a fully operational plan for interaction with the Ministry of Defence, the Ministry of Internal Affairs, other central executive authorities, and local executive authorities at all levels. Prepared to deploy 42,000 people and 5,000 special technology units as well as 830 fins. The coordination is now being carried out by the Commission on Technological and Environmental Safety and Emergency Situations, headed by Deputy Prime Minister of Ukraine, Alexander Juryevich Vilkul. Thank you.
ParlaMint-UA_2013-09-20-m0.u12	Party of regions, National Deputy Greenewecki.
ParlaMint-UA_2013-09-20-m0.u13	Thank you. Dear Mikhail Vasilovich, first of all, I would like to thank you personally and the staff of the State Service for the extraordinary situation in the region for their operations and professional activities during the elimination of the effects of the disaster on the Rest. And if you'll excuse me, I'd like to speak to Anton Kiss.
ParlaMint-UA_2013-09-20-m0.u14	Dear colleagues, distinguished members of the government! First of all, I would like to express my gratitude to the people of Tarutin, Arcisk, Bulgrad, Saratsk and Tatar regions of the government, personally to our rescuers led by Bolotski Mikhail Vasilovich, the Odessa District Administration, the Tarautin and the Arcis region administration. However, there are two questions. I'm talking to Sergei Hennadiovich. Sergey Hennadievich, there is a decision that has already been made, there is already funding of 105 million. But today's the village.
ParlaMint-UA_2013-09-20-m0.u15	You've been preparing to ask questions for a long time! That's the question, you have a minute each: ask a question, and you don't have to tell a story. Your question, please, Kiss.
ParlaMint-UA_2013-09-20-m0.u16	It takes 20 million dollars for the building to house the residents of the village of Berezino today. This is the first time. And second. A children’s home, a garden in the village of Borodino, Tarutin district, needs capital repair and construction. I ask you very much to consider. And if you look at that question, invite me to a meeting to make a decision on the allocation of funds.
ParlaMint-UA_2013-09-20-m0.u17	Turn on Sergio Gennadiovich Arbuzov's microphone.
ParlaMint-UA_2013-09-20-m0.u18	Thank you so much for asking, for asking. And as far as I can remember, I was already transferred to the Ministry of Finance. I'll be back with China about Thursday, Monday I'll be ready to meet with you to talk about it. Thank you.
ParlaMint-UA_2013-09-20-m0.u19	Garbage, faction of the Party of the Regions. Please.
ParlaMint-UA_2013-09-20-m0.u20	Thank you. I have a question for the Ministry of Finance, Merkovsky Anatoly Ivanovich. Dear Anatoly Ivanovich, you know what is in our country, there is a special law on the one-and-a-half-per-per-per-cent congregation for the development of agriculture, horticulturalism and hop farming in Ukraine. Unfortunately, this year, these costs are accumulated on a special account, and they cannot be used on today’s program. Please tell me, how does the Ministry of Finance plan to be with this law in 2014 and are these costs planned for use as a target? Thank you.
ParlaMint-UA_2013-09-20-m0.u21	Please, Anatoly Ivanovich Merkowski.
ParlaMint-UA_2013-09-20-m0.u22	Thank you. Those funds that came in last year will certainly be used for a purpose. With regard to the financing of expenditure for 2014 and in line with revenue, I think that this issue will be resolved in the process of developing the draft budget and considering it in the Supreme Council. Thank you.
ParlaMint-UA_2013-09-20-m0.u23	The faction of the Party of the Regions, the Zarubin People's Deputy. Please.
ParlaMint-UA_2013-09-20-m0.u24	Thank you, Vladimir Vasilovich. I have a question for Anatoly Ivanovich Merkowski. Anatoly Ivanovich, the basic principles of budgeting for each year are the issue of the exchange rate or the stability of the national currency. In this regard, I have a question, and more specifically, a request, to make clear the basic positions that may indicate that the national currency will be stable in 2014. Because frankly, the whole board of experts is using this so-called principle, you know this principle, waiting theory. And on purpose, as I think it was in 2012, and now, they're prophesying, as the oracles are unreceptive, that the bracelet is going to be 9.5-10, I'm meeting even 12, 13, it's going to be in the media. I view it as provocation, provocation against power, against government. I wish your mouth would tell you the real situation with a forecast of exchange rate stability, stability of the national currency, because the pests will and always will be. Thank you.
ParlaMint-UA_2013-09-20-m0.u25	Please, Anatoly Ivanovich.
ParlaMint-UA_2013-09-20-m0.u26	Thank you for asking. The Ministry of Finance does not fully organise the work that relates to the definition of exchange rate policy, because it is the prerogative of the National Bank. But from the Ministry of Finance, the government is taking appropriate measures to ensure currency stability. I reported, first of all, we're fairly reasonable in determining the amount of government budget deficits for the following year, namely 2.7 gross domestic product. Moreover, how the government can further influence the balance of exchange rate policies is a State guarantee. We predict next year that such government guarantees will be no more than 30 billion dollars, this year 50 billion dollars. In addition, we are building a budget on existing legislation that allows us to ensure that financial resources are balanced and that appropriate borrowings are carried out within the limits of the amounts that will be approved in the budget. So we don't have a negative impact on our fiscal policy. Thank you.
ParlaMint-UA_2013-09-20-m0.u27	Freedom Union, National Deputy Benjuk, please.
ParlaMint-UA_2013-09-20-m0.u28	The All-Ukrainian Freedom Union. Please pass the word to Alexia Kaidi.
ParlaMint-UA_2013-09-20-m0.u29	Yes, please, the People's Deputy of Kyde.
ParlaMint-UA_2013-09-20-m0.u30	Thank you. Alexy Kaida, faction of the All-Ukrainian Freedom Union. Questions to the Minister of Internal Affairs, Zacharychenk. May 9th of this year in Ternopolis, the beating of national MPs by the police. The Vradyivka, the whole of Ukraine, shuddered. No report. "Breaking" by the head of the Ternopil city police casino, silence. Beating up journalists with aunts, police inaction. Quiet again. Kyiv City Council August 19th: Obstacle to the activities of the Ukrainian people’s deputies and the beating by the police of the Ukrainian people’s deputies. It's quiet again. Instead, the members of the All-U.S. Freedom Union are being detained without a basis, but there is no investigation into the infliction of bodily harm on our "Freedom" brothers from the Kiev organization, who are being criminalized.
ParlaMint-UA_2013-09-20-m0.u31	Honorable National Deputies, article. For me to be in the Rules, I read to you, article 229: "Organization of the Hour."".. During the "hours of questions to the government" can only be disturbed by questions on a specific subject. Suggestions for a specific theme are submitted every week. For plenary meetings of the Supreme Council, MPs and MPs shall be submitted to the Conciliation Council." You've formed it, so put it on the subject. You have now asked the question of Vitaly Yuriovich, an hour, a minute to answer. But ask questions on a specific subject. Vitaly Yuriovich, please.
ParlaMint-UA_2013-09-20-m0.u32	Thank you for asking.
ParlaMint-UA_2013-09-20-m0.u33	Listen.
ParlaMint-UA_2013-09-20-m0.u34	Wait a minute. Thank you for asking. All the questions that you've heard, you've been to my reception, and all those questions are on my personal control at the hearing. I'll give you a personal answer to every question, but you asked the question -- it doesn't all apply because it's a claim you're making to the police, and there's the Attorney General's Office or the prosecutor's office in those areas where you think they've been violated by the police. We should go to the prosecutor’s office and get an appropriate answer. Thank you.
ParlaMint-UA_2013-09-20-m0.u35	Thank you. It's the Fatherland faction, the Papuya People's Deputy.
ParlaMint-UA_2013-09-20-m0.u36	A boy named Andrew. Please pass the word to Alexandra Kugel.
ParlaMint-UA_2013-09-20-m0.u37	Please, Alexandra Kugel.
ParlaMint-UA_2013-09-20-m0.u38	Sergei Henadijovich, you know, the Supreme Council of Ukraine asked you one of the most important questions: how will the government implement the 2013 budget? And all the Ukrainians were waiting, and what would be the main thing in the 2014 budget? How can you plan entrepreneurial activities if you do not know your plans? What did we hear? An empty speech. Please tell me, Sergey Gennadijovich, how you're going to do this, give a direct answer to how you're going to repay your debt: a billion in salary, 2013, a billion social benefits per hospital. ‘ 217 million only to women who gave birth to children. How can they raise them now? You wanted to add the population. Tell me, please, you've pulled the bill by the ear here, pushed the bill into different places. How you're going to close.
ParlaMint-UA_2013-09-20-m0.u39	Sergey Hennadiovich, answer me. Answer me!
ParlaMint-UA_2013-09-20-m0.u40	Thank you so much for asking. Unfortunately, it's not one question, it's four.
ParlaMint-UA_2013-09-20-m0.u41	Answer me.
ParlaMint-UA_2013-09-20-m0.u42	I'm ready to answer all four questions, no problem. As far as the 2013 budget is concerned, this year is still going on, and we are working under the conditions that we have. [[B in m in s a l in]] I'm sure we'll work.
ParlaMint-UA_2013-09-20-m0.u43	You asked three questions, let him answer.
ParlaMint-UA_2013-09-20-m0.u44	We will work under the conditions that exist today in our trading environment. our relationship with our partners in a situation where the world crisis is unfolding. And I'm sure that all of the work that we do, and by the end of the year, there's still time left, and I'm sure we'll be able to improve and implement the budget, as necessary, depending on the situation in the world markets and in our country. When it comes to macro indicators that you've been talking about, what you've been talking about. I'll name some indicators, if you haven't heard Mr. Merkowski's answer, I'll call them again: gross domestic product.
ParlaMint-UA_2013-09-20-m0.u45	[[Unheard]]
ParlaMint-UA_2013-09-20-m0.u46	You say what you want, I'll call it. I'm going to call it!
ParlaMint-UA_2013-09-20-m0.u47	(DO NOT HEAR)
ParlaMint-UA_2013-09-20-m0.u48	To date, the government has submitted some laws to Parliament, such as the Bill of Bills, which today begins to work so that you know that we are solving the problem of creditors ’ debt today. Now this situation is working, as soon as you hear the companies get the loan. (Noise in the hall)
ParlaMint-UA_2013-09-20-m0.u49	I also gave the Party of the Regions one minute. The "Fatherland" faction, Pavlovsky's national deputy, please.
ParlaMint-UA_2013-09-20-m0.u50	Andrey Pavlovsky, faction of the politically imprisoned Yulia Timoshenko "The Fatherland". Please give the floor to the Deputy of the Fatherland of Ludmila Denisov.
ParlaMint-UA_2013-09-20-m0.u51	Please pass the question to Ludmila Dennis.
ParlaMint-UA_2013-09-20-m0.u52	Thank you. Dear voters, distinguished national MPs, unrespected government, I have a question. I want to finish the question that my distinguished colleague, Alexander Kugel, has asked you. When will the calculations be completed when you provide unemployment benefits? For eight months now, some citizens have received 30 sums in eight months of assistance. Debt from wages is rising, and it's already in the budget area, this debt on wages. Hospitals don't pay at all. You're not helping our people anymore.
ParlaMint-UA_2013-09-20-m0.u53	Can I answer that? Thank you for asking. In terms of debt, so that you know that the debt in the budget area has no place, the debt in the state and other property enterprises has decreased by 13 percent. Last week, I held a meeting with the selector and answered that question. As far as social assistance is concerned, we don't have any long-term debts, we're done.
ParlaMint-UA_2013-09-20-m0.u54	You don't pay for three months.
ParlaMint-UA_2013-09-20-m0.u55	We're closing everything in time, you say. You're talking about the leftovers that there is. (Noise in the hall)
ParlaMint-UA_2013-09-20-m0.u56	Why are you stealing all of Ukraine? They don't pay for unemployment for three months. For three months, 130 bracelets are not paid to care for a child’s mother. You're who. You're hurting people! You don't have a conscience! You come here and you lie. You're lying to Parliament, to society! You're going to spend 130 bucks a month on a baby! You're billions. You're making money. 130 dollars is unemployment aid. People don't get paid. Don't lie to people! (Noise in the hall) Liar! (Noise in the hall)
ParlaMint-UA_2013-09-20-m0.u57	I beg of you, Alexander Kugel. Go where you are, I'll let you ask questions. And he's going to ask Vladimir Mikhailovich Litwin yet, and we're going to finish. Please, just a minute. Turn on the Kugel microphone. One minute to go. Please.
ParlaMint-UA_2013-09-20-m0.u58	Sergei Gennadyevich! Please listen carefully. That's the question.
ParlaMint-UA_2013-09-20-m0.u59	Please.
ParlaMint-UA_2013-09-20-m0.u60	Sergei Gennadyevich! The issue of payment of social benefits you have to take, as First Vice Prime Minister, for control. It's different. Listen to me! The heating season is coming. Debt before Naftogaza is 17 billion. They don't take calculations with promissory notes today. You understand, you've passed this law, and your institution doesn't accept calculations. Tell me, who will answer except for the government that doesn't work? And so give a direct answer to people right now: to this number, we're going to cancel the debt, and on Monday, I'm going to give a clear mechanism for how the accounts with Naftogaz will work. Thank you.
ParlaMint-UA_2013-09-20-m0.u61	Ladies and gentlemen, if you wanted to see the political theater that has now taken place, that is one thing. If you want to talk to me and get an answer, it's completely different. I want to tell you, there's no problem with NAC Naftogazu. No one's planning a billing. And the amount of gas you need to put into the gas shelters. We are definitely waiting for the heating season. There's no problem. Debt on wages is falling, and so is debt on wages. Debt on social payments doesn't have the amount they're talking about today. I'm ready to answer officially. Ask me a question. Thank you.
ParlaMint-UA_2013-09-20-m0.u62	I'm asking you one last question. Vladimir Mikhailovich Litvin. One last question.
ParlaMint-UA_2013-09-20-m0.u63	Thank you, Vladimir Vasilovich. I have a question for the head of the Emergency Service. I'll be in the Emylchin region today, where 80 percent is the Chernobyl area. At the same time, a recommendation has been made, and what's particularly cynical is that the local authorities decide that there are no more warnings and you have to give up 1st, 2nd and 3rd zones. As far as I know, these villages, villages and cities have almost 2,000 300, and we're only offered to leave 500. I think we might have to do this. But first, how can we continue to organize the lives of those who live for these pitiful wages today? And when they shoot tomorrow, they won't pay anything, like they don't pay? I don't think that's the answer. At each of the locations, what kind of production can be arranged that can be offered to people? And this decision is simply, excuse me, stupid, it translates all the problems into people. Thank you.
ParlaMint-UA_2013-09-20-m0.u64	Please, Mikhail Vasilovich.
ParlaMint-UA_2013-09-20-m0.u65	Dear Volodymyr Mikhailovich! Unfortunately, it's already out of our jurisdiction. The estrangement zone, the estrangement management agency, has been transferred to the Ministry of Ecology. But I'm going to inform you that these issues are being addressed by the government, the Minecology. And in the near future, we'll keep you informed. Thank you.
ParlaMint-UA_2013-09-20-m0.u66	Dear National Deputies! "The year of questions before the government" is over. Let's thank the government for participating in the work of the Supreme Council of Ukraine. [[Applause]] Keep going.
ParlaMint-UA_2013-09-20-m0.u67	Honorable National Deputies, in accordance with article 25 of the Supreme Council of Ukraine Rules on Friday, we have 30 minutes to announce our requests. Allow me to announce the parliamentary questions that have come. A request was received from the Ukrainian National Deputies: groups of people’s deputies (Tagniboka, Mohnika and others). A total of 36 deputies) to the President of Ukraine to ensure payment of arrears from earnings in Ukraine and to compensate employees for the loss of part of their money. I'll bet you a vote on the proposal to support the request. Please vote. [[11:05:43]] For-78 The decision is not taken. Factions: The Party of Regions is 2, Fatherland is 24, Vitalia Klicka is 19, Freedom is 26, Ukraine's company is 0, non-fractional is 7. Request not supported. Mikoli Katerinczuk to the President of Ukraine on the protection of rights and the non-admission of illegal land and property capture by the Ukrainian Chronic Documentary Film Studio, led by the Kyiv National University Theatre, the film and television production of the name Karpenka-Karogo and the taking of the case under personal control. I'm putting in a vote to support the request. Please vote. [[11:06:43]] For-78 The decision is not taken. Request not supported. Groups of National Deputies (Herachenko, Pobera, Vanzuraka) to the Minister of Internal Affairs of Ukraine to determine the circumstances of the illegal use of the Internet logo "Ukrainian Truth" and the distribution of the false newspaper "Ukrainian Truth" with false output. Valeria Calchenka to the Minister of Internal Affairs of Ukraine on speeding up the investigation of falsification during the election of Ukraine’s national deputies in 2012 in the one-man election district No.101. Oleg Pankević to the Prime Minister of Ukraine, Head of the State Television and Radio Committee of Ukraine, Head of the National Council of Ukraine for Television and Radio Broadcasting on the extension of the channels of language of the National Radio Company of Ukraine by receiving an etheric frequency of 107.2 Megagertz in the FM-diaposon in Lviv for broadcasting programmes of the Ukrainian Radio. Olega Pankević to the Prime Minister of Ukraine, Minister of Ecology and Natural Resources of Ukraine, Head of the State Agency for Land Resources of Ukraine, Head of the State Service of Ukraine, with exceptional situations regarding the use of measures to ensure State control over the use of urban equipment by specialised organizations, State expert analysis of the impact of interference in natural processes and the regulatory and legal management of the use of economic operators of technical means of active influence on hydrometeorological processes related to the protection of natural resources from the city, as well as other activities in the area of countering natural and destructive weather processes and weakening their impact on the functioning of the agricultural complex of Ukraine. Igor Sabia's acting president of the National Atomic Energy Company Energoate on the issue of disproportionate funding for the cost of "Containing Sociocultural, Housing and Home Assignment" of cities of nuclear power stations satellites and non-compliance with the National Atomic Energy Company's commitment to social development goals and priorities for the period 2008-2012. Igor Sabia to the Attorney General of Ukraine, Head of the Ukrainian Security Service, Minister of Internal Affairs of Ukraine on the legality of the sale of property by the territorial community of Neteshina. Oleg Heleway to the Minister of Health of Ukraine, head of the National Financial Inspectorate of Ukraine, for the audit of the financial activity of Psychotuberculosis Department No. 6 of Kiev City Psychneurological Hospital No. 3. Oleg Heleway to the Attorney General of Ukraine, Head of the State Inspectorate for Land Use and Protection to verify that there is no response to parliamentary appeals by the officials of the Prosecutor's Office of the Kyiv Region, the State Inspectorate for Land Management and Protection in the Kyiv Region regarding the prompt verification of the legality of the decision of the Borodian District Council No. 273-12-IV of 8 November 2012 and the verification of the illegal land allocation in the Borodian region of the Kyiv region, which leads to a grave violation of the constitutional rights of residents of the villages of Mikulichi and Nemixyev and the use of appropriate response measures. Mikhail Blawajkoh to the Minister of Regional Development, Construction and Housing of Ukraine on the activities of the district utility Donetsktécommunnergo production unit "Džinsktěplěměża". Jurya Derevyanka to the Prime Minister of Ukraine on the need for a return in 2013 to compensate citizens for their contributions to the USSR Savings. Vladimir Schulga to the Attorney General of Ukraine on the commission of a crime by the prosecutor of the Romanian Tax Police Department in the context of the review of the Public Shareholder Society "The Sumska Machine Construction and Production Union of the Frunze". Vladimir Schulga to the Minister of Revenue and Congregations of Ukraine regarding the responsibility of the employees of the Ministry of Income and Assembly for the dissemination of unreliable information. Alexander Sic to the first deputy head of the Pension Fund of Ukraine, the first deputy head of the State Executive Service of Ukraine to exercise the rights of Ukrainian citizen Maria Hajduk in part of the payment of her due benefits. Oleg Osuhovski to the Head of the Supreme Council of Ukraine, the Attorney General of Ukraine, the Chief Justice of the High Council of Justice, the First Deputy Prime Minister of Ukraine, the Head of the Supreme Qualifications Commission of the Judges of Ukraine, the Head of the Administration of the President of Ukraine, the Minister of Internal Affairs of Ukraine, the Minister of Justice of Ukraine, the Head of the Security Service of Ukraine for the use of the head of the Supreme Economic Court of Ukraine, Victor Father's Judicial Authority for the purpose of unlawful possession of the immovable property of the natural person, the citizen of Natalia Svevenko. Oleg Osuhovski to the Attorney General of Ukraine on the non-payment of salaries to employees of the Private Shareholders' Association of Technology in the village of Grodok in the Plains region and the obstruction of the activities of the Ukrainian People's Deputy, as well as the unlawful denial of the will to protect the plant of assistant consultants Alexander Gomón and Alexander Savchuk. Jaroslav Hinka and Andrija Paruba to the Minister of Internal Affairs of Ukraine regarding the provision of information on the results of the legalization test by the mayor of Odessa Alexi Kostusev’s income obtained by the criminal route. Oleg Bukhovtsa to Prime Minister of Ukraine on the situation surrounding the construction of the Central Reference Laboratory of particularly dangerous animal diseases in Meref Kharkiv district and the treaty signed in 2005 between the Ministry of Health of Ukraine and the U.S. Department of Defence on cooperation in preventing the spread of pathogens and knowledge that may be used in the development of biological weapons. Oleg Bukhovec to the Prime Minister of Ukraine, the first deputy head of the Ukrainian Pension Fund for the provision of 30 per cent pension allowance in the 2014 budget for children of war under judicial decisions.
ParlaMint-UA_2013-09-20-m0.u68	Jurya Crook to the Prime Minister of Ukraine on the maintenance of the water level in Lake Yalpug (Belgrade Region of Odessa) on a normal support level. Mikhail Golka to the Attorney General of Ukraine, Minister of Social Policy of Ukraine, for the removal of the social benefits of low-income citizens and many-year families of the forest region of Ternopil. Olga Sikori to the Attorney General of Ukraine on the verification of enterprises that handle hazardous wastes (gathering, transport, storage, processing, disposal). Andrija Pishno to the Prime Minister of Ukraine on the necessity of revoking the bill registration number 3100 "On Amendments to the Law on Charities and Charities", which poses a serious social threat to charitable activities in Ukraine. The National Deputies Group (Karpuntsova, Novak, Briginca) to the Attorney General of Ukraine on the improper examination of the parliamentary request for a legal assessment by the Office of the Attorney General of Ukraine of the inaction of Odessa’s urban head, Alexia Kostusev, who was not taking measures to warn and eliminate the consequences of the disaster on the night of May 31, 2013, was having fun at a nightclub. Mr. Eduard Gurvitz to the Attorney General of Ukraine on the improper review by the Prosecutor's Office of the Odessa District of Deputies for a complaint by the President of the Veteran Social Protection Fund. Igor Schwaika to the Prime Minister of Ukraine, Minister of Finance of Ukraine, Minister of Education and Science, Heads of Education, Vinické, Volinsky, Dnipropetrovsk, Donetské, Žitomirsk, Zakarpatski, Zaporziski, Ivano-Frankivsky, Kyivsky, Kirovograd, Lugansk, Lvivski, Mikolaiówski, Odessk, Poltavaski, Rivenski, Sumski, Ternopilski, Harkovsky, Herkovsky, Hmelnitsky, Cherkaske, Cherniewski, Cherniewski district administration, Head of the Council of Ministers of the Autonomous Republic of Crime, Heads of the Kiev City Administration, Head of the Sevastopol City Administration, on the number of closed schools in 2013-2014, and the measures for the maintenance of the non-training system, and for the maintenance of the schools. Igora Schwaika to the Prime Minister of Ukraine, Minister of Foreign Affairs of Ukraine, Minister of Defence of Ukraine, Minister of Justice of Ukraine, Attorney-General of Ukraine, Head of the State Foreign Service of Ukraine on the measures taken to investigate the baseless accusation of Ukrainian fisherman Alexander Fedorovich and his return from Russian captivity. Ruslan Zelik at the head of the National Architecture and Construction Inspectorate of Ukraine for the construction of a filling station on the strategic platoon of the Gorbakov-Early village of Bila Krinic of the Plain region of the Plain region. Ruslan Zelik to the head of the Ukrainian Presidential Administration for the release of Hope Fedusko from office as head of the Annual Regional State Administration of the County of Ravens, according to the appeal of the community of the village of Borov in the region of Ravens and the five adjacent villages (a total of 1,800 signatures). Alexander Fitchuk to the Prime Minister of Ukraine on the need to finance the repair of asphalt-covered roads in the villages of the Kitzman region of the Chernovets region, which were affected by the ČAES accident. Alexander Fitchuk to the Prime Minister of Ukraine on the need to take urgent measures to finance the reconstruction and restoration of roads and bridges in the villages of Petrasi and Rostok in the region of Czerniewice, which were destroyed in July 2008. Catherine Vasuk to the Prime Minister of Ukraine for the transfer of land to the state-owned enterprises Elita Brische and Premega, the village of Bakowci Lutsky district of Volin region, which are referred to the administration of the Academy of Agricultural Sciences of Ukraine, to the rural councils. Catherine Vashuk to the Prime Minister of Ukraine on the allocation of funds in the Ukrainian State Budget for 2014 for the repair of roads in rural areas. Oksana Kaletnik to the Prime Minister of Ukraine on the implementation of appropriate measures to restore clean-up facilities located in the village of Tzekinivka in the area of Yampil. Hennady Fedorjak to the Ministry of Health of Ukraine, the Ministry of Social Policy of Ukraine, the Social Protection Fund for Persons with Disabilities, the State Service for Disabled Persons and Veterans of Ukraine on the need for a comprehensive contribution towards the treatment of the disabled person abroad, Victor Jurchenk, in order to ensure that he has an inalienable natural and inviolable right to health care and timely medical care from the authorized authorities of the State. Hennady Fedorjak to the Cabinet of Ministers of Ukraine, the State Treasury Service of Ukraine, the Ministry of Finance of Ukraine on the need to create favourable conditions for the implementation of priority projects for the development of the city of Chernivci. Peter Simonnck to the head of the High Council of Justice, the head of the Supreme Qualifications Commission of Judges of Ukraine on the misconduct of the judge of the Kyiv District Administrative Court of Yulia Schramko. Alexander Mirnoy to the Prime Minister of Ukraine to address the issue of increasing subsidies from the State budget of Ukraine to repair roads in Krasilov Hmelnicki district, which are in very critical condition. Igora Miroshnicka to the Department of Culture and Tourism, Nationalities and Religion of the Suma District State Administration on the use of urgent measures to rebuild the house where Taras Shevchenko stayed in the city of Labedin in the Suma area of authentic appearance. Igora Miroshnicka to the head of the Suma District Public Administration, Head of the State Environmental Inspectorate in the Suma Region, Public Shareholders' Association of Crushing for immediate action to address violations detected by the Office of the Attorney-General of the Ukraine for "Poltawassing", and to ensure that work is carried out to prevent the negative effects of the production of hydrocarbons in the Boroven and Budil Rural Councils of the region of the Suma Region and to provide funds for their implementation. Groups of National Deputies (Geraschenko, Kondratjuk, Greenevich) to the Head of the Supreme Council of Ukraine regarding the admission to the premises of the Committees of the Supreme Council of Ukraine of visitors with children. Oleg Orotyuk to the Attorney General of Ukraine regarding the enforcement of legislation by the directorates of the Ternopil branch of the State Enterprise Skrriba on the conclusion of storage contracts with the right of use with other tenant companies in the area. Viktor Razwadowski to the Ukrainian Defence Minister for Debt for Healing. Viktor Razwadowski to the Prime Minister of Ukraine for the preservation of the integrity of the property complex of the Open Shareholders Association "Corovine Sugar Plant" and the infrastructure of the village of Veliki Korovnci in the region of Žitomir. Spiridona Kilinkarov to the Attorney General of Ukraine on the inaction of the Public Prosecutor's Office in Lugansk. Spiridona Kilinkarov to the Attorney General of Ukraine on the inaction of the Public Prosecutor’s Office in Lugansk regarding the issue of providing the city’s population with inequitable drinking water. Alexander Abdullin to the head of the National Penitentiary Service of Ukraine on the non-admission of violations of national and European legislation, the cessation of political repression against Yulia Timoshenko before the signing of the Association Agreement between Ukraine and the European Union. Alexander Abdullin to the head of Ukraine’s Supreme Court for the handling of civil and criminal cases in violation of the basic principles of justice in the case of Julia Timoshenko. Groups of National Deputies (Chugunikova, Vanzuraka, Rosenka) to Vinnicki district attorney, Winnicki city head for the capture of two lands in Vinnica, on the street of John Bogun, without a number. Denisov's people to the Attorney-General of Ukraine on the use by the Attorney-General of Ukraine of the necessary measures to verify the ineffective use of budgetary resources as the first substitute for the head of the Trostian district government administration of the Suma district of Edward Cold. Tetjana Tears to the head of the Kyiv City State Administration for the completion of the reconstruction of the route on the Prospect of Victory. Tetjana Sluze, pending the temporary mandate of the head of the PTAT "Shrink" to resume stationary radio broadcasting in the region of Chernigiv. Anatolia Dirova to the Prime Minister of Ukraine for the completion of the construction of the school in the village of Rakovec of the Bogorodčany district of Ivano-Frankiv region. Alexander the Jury to the Prime Minister of Ukraine, Minister of Defence of Ukraine, head of the Zitomir District Government Administration for the allocation of funds by the Ministry of Defence to engage in the incineration and operation of the residence of military personnel in the city of Žitomir. Alexander Prisznyuk to the Attorney General of Ukraine, Minister of Internal Affairs of Ukraine, Head of the Security Service of Ukraine, for the investigation of the crime and for the prosecution of persons responsible for the acts of vandalism, resulting in the destruction of the monument of Volodymyr Lenin in the city of Uzin Kyiv district on the night of September 8 - 9, 2013. Vasil Pazinjak to the Minister of Infrastructure of Ukraine, the head of the National Shareholder Company Naftogaz Ukraine, to resolve the issue of the gasification of the city of Rava-Russk Zovkowsky district of Lviv, which is close to the border of the European Union, and to resolve the issue of financing the completion of the construction of the Dobrosin-Rava-Russka pipeline. Alexander Golub to the Attorney General of Ukraine on the raiding of the property of the Open Shareholder Society of the Sokoal Heat Combined. Alexander Golub to the head of the Lviv district government for the warmth of the inhabitants of Borislav Lviv district. Alexander Zubcevski to the Prime Minister of Ukraine on the need to secure the land of the former military district range A-4322 by residents of the villages of Novopetrovka and Staropetrovka of the Berdjan region of Zaporez. Ruslana Solvar to the Ministry of Justice of Ukraine, the Ministry of Social Policy of Ukraine, the Attorney General of Ukraine, the State Executive Service of Ukraine, the Authorized President of Ukraine from the rights of the child, the Higher Qualifications Commission of judges of Ukraine, the High Council of Justice on the protection of the constitutional right to housing of young children and their refusal to move out of the residence. Ruslan Solvar to the Ministry of Finance of Ukraine, the Ministry of Environment and Natural Resources of Ukraine, the Ministry of Regional Development, Construction and Housing of Ukraine, the Kyiv District State Administration for Under-Sufficient Status of Financing and Implementation of the Measures envisioned by the General Government Water Management Programme and the Public Target Program on Drinking Water of Ukraine 2011-2020. Grinevetsky's Sergey to the Prime Minister of Ukraine for the provision of first place for graduates of higher education institutions. Sergey Greenewecko to Vice Prime Minister Alexander Vilkul of Ukraine for the restoration of the elevator economy of Ukraine. Mikhail Gerasimczuk to the Attorney General of Ukraine for violations of environmental legislation due to the existence of a natural site of the Hard House Wastes near the village of Lutíž, in the region of Kiev. Valery Golovka to the Minister for Regional Development, Construction and Housing of Ukraine on the threat of the 2013-2014 heating season, as well as the provision of drinking water to the population of the Poltava region. Lidija Kotelak to the Prime Minister of Ukraine, Minister of Education and Science of Ukraine, Minister of Social Policy of Ukraine, on the need to amend some of Ukraine's legislation on equal rights for workers on retirement. Olga Mikhailenko to the Minister of Infrastructure of Ukraine for the renewal of the training of Mikolayev-Crowy Rig trains, Mikolayev-Moscwa, Yasinovata-Odessa. Olga Mikhailenko to the Prime Minister of Ukraine on the recovery of debt from earnings to employees of the State Enterprise Hersonagrolis. Arsena Avakov to the Attorney General of Ukraine on violations of the rules of law in the field of corporate governance and the state registration of legal persons and natural persons. Arsena Avakov to the Ukrainian Minister of Health on the provision of medical care for the population of Kharkiv. Fedor Negoya to the Office of the Attorney General of Ukraine, the Ministry of Revenue and Assembly of Ukraine on the inaction of the tax authorities and the Prosecutor's Office of the Curupin and other areas of the Hersonian region. Valery Dubyl to the Minister of Internal Affairs of Ukraine for the violation of the law by the administration of the Municipal Enterprise "Palade of Children and Youth" of the Trieste District Council of the Suma Region. Valery Dubyl to the Minister of Revenue and Assembly of Ukraine for the violation of the law by the administration of the municipal enterprise "Trostian Market" of the Trieste District Council of the Suma Region. Alexander Mochkov to the Attorney General of Ukraine on the need for a thorough examination of the legality and justification of the change in the charge of the criminal conduct of citizen Andrija Krivčičkov. Olga Lewchenko to the Head of the State Security Inspectorate of Ukraine on Land Transport, Head of the State Automobile Inspectorate of the Ministry of Internal Affairs of Ukraine in Kiev, to ensure the safety of public transport in Kiev. Vitalia Žuravsky to the Prime Minister of Ukraine for the introduction of the town of Radomisl district of Žitomir district to the List of Populations Concentrated to Radioactive Pollution Zones as a result of the Chernobyl disaster. Mikoli Palamarchuk to the Attorney General of Ukraine, Minister of Internal Affairs of Ukraine, on the use of appropriate measures to respond to the infliction of bodily harm on members of the National Police Department at the Kyiv City State Administration on 19 August 2013. Vladimir Chuba to the Prime Minister of Ukraine on the financing of a subsidy to compensate for the indemnification of individual categories of citizens from the State budget of Ukraine for the city of Alcevska. Valentina Queen to the Prime Minister of Ukraine on the accountability of the structural units of the local executive authorities to local self-government. The Queen's Valentina to the head of the National Energy Commission, which regulates the state energy sector with regard to changes to the decision of the National Commission, which regulates the state energy sector since October 22, 2004 No.1030 with a view to taking into account the characteristics of the light age in different regions of the country. Taras Kutov to the Attorney General of Ukraine for the prosecution of the Vinicki District for the abuse of budgetary resources allocated to agricultural development. Oksana Sold to the Prime Minister of Ukraine for the restoration of the rights of evaluators. Sergey Balandin to the Attorney General of Ukraine, the head of the Antimonopoly Committee of Ukraine on the situation of violations of state procurement legislation and signs of corruption around the results of the tender in favour of the Society with limited liability of Boudmagistral, totalling 18 million dollars in the city of Nicopolis Dnipropetrovsk. Sergey Balandin to the Attorney General of Ukraine, Head of the State Inspectorate for Consumer Rights Protection, on the use of measures to prevent consumers from being deceived (the collection of payments to the population for unsurpassed heat services by the Yellowwater Temperature Company) of the city of Yellow Waters of the Dnipropetrov region. Romana Shugal to the Prime Minister of Ukraine, Minister of Energy and Coal Industry of Ukraine, Head of the Montenegrin District State Administration, Head of the District District Administration of the Montenegrin District Administration on the inadequate energy supply of residents of the corner of Bjilka, the village of the town type of the Krasnolje Storzynecko district of Chernivecko. Roman Shugal and Sergey Gordinka headed by the Poltava District State Administration, head of the Poltava District Department of the Antimonopoly Committee of Ukraine, head of the State Inspectorate for Price Control in the Poltava Region, the Poltava City Head for preventing an unjustified increase in housing and utilities tariffs in Poltavi. Andrija Pishna to the Prime Minister of Ukraine on the illegal closure of the district hospital in the village of Archangel Highpole district of Herson. Vasila Petyovka to the Attorney General of Ukraine regarding the late payment by the Zakartat district office of the Social Insurance Fund for temporary loss of employment of material security and social services to insured persons. Bogdan Benjuk to the Attorney General of Ukraine on the falsification of evidence in the case of "Danpropetrovics." Bogdan Benjuk to the Attorney General of Ukraine for the violation of the requirements of Ukrainian law by the Ukrainian State Service for medical treatment in the application of the medicine "Betfer ONE A Plus". Vladimir Pekhov to the Attorney General of Ukraine, the President-in-Office of Ukraine for the Rights of the Child, the Head of the Provincial District Administration, the Head of the Regional District Council for the use of urgent measures aimed at ensuring the constitutional rights of children at the Municipal Institute for the Social and Psychological Rehabilitation of Children of the Family of the Žitomir District Council. Alexander Sic to the Head of the Council of Ministers of the Autonomous Republic of Crimea on ensuring the implementation and guarantee of the constitutional right of Ukrainians living in the Autonomous Republic of Crimea to receive education in public language in general, vocational and technical institutions. Irina Farion to the Prime Minister of Ukraine on the inappropriate response of the Minister of Culture of Ukraine, Leonid Novohatak, to the MP's appeal to the aggressive anti-Ukrainen movies Mudaks and "Ukraine, Music!"supported by the Ukrainian State Agency for Film Affairs. Irina Farion to the Attorney General of Ukraine, Minister of Internal Affairs of Ukraine, Minister of Culture of Ukraine, for the purpose of reviewing information on the capture by the Ukrainian Orthodox Church of 75 objects in the territory of the National Kyiv-Pecher Historical and Cultural Reserve. Roman Ilik to the Attorney General of Ukraine, Minister of Internal Affairs of Ukraine, on the investigation of the resonant case of rape and attempted suicide in this case of the minor orphan Ivanna Tanchuk, resident of Drogobich Lvivsk district. Constantine Guzenka to the Minister of Ecology and Natural Resources of Ukraine on ignoring the Ministry of Environment and Natural Resources of Ukraine's dangerous environmental situation, which has now arisen in the city of Dniprožinsk. Irina Lucenko to the Prime Minister of Ukraine about the terrible state of automobiles in the Canow region. Irina Lucenko to the Attorney General of Ukraine, Minister of Internal Affairs of Ukraine, on the numerous cases of abuse by officials of the authorities and the local self-government of the Kyiv region of Borispilla by officials, the commission of official crimes and corruption in the distribution of land. Andrija Kožemjakina to the Attorney General of Ukraine, Minister of Internal Affairs of Ukraine, regarding the verification of violations of the requirements of law, as well as the illegal inaction of individual employees of the Ministry of Internal Affairs of Ukraine in the Montenegrin region regarding the timely, comprehensive, full and impartial investigation of individual criminal conduct and the involvement of guilty persons in the responsibility envisaged by Ukraine’s current legislation. Valery Lunchenko to the Minister of Ecology and Natural Resources of Ukraine on the need to take immediate action to dispose of the wastes of the 1st Class of Hazards located in the territory of the Public Shareholder Society "Agrocomplex" in the village of Rocosovo Hustovo in the Zakarpatsky region. Jacob Besbach to the Cabinet of Ministers of Ukraine, the Ministry of Education and Science of Ukraine, the Ministry of Infrastructure of Ukraine, the Authorized President of Ukraine from the Rights of the Child, the State Administration of Railway Transport of Ukraine to address the urgent issue of the restoration of the function of preschool institutions in the Samar district of Dnipropetrovska. Taras Kutov to Prime Minister of Ukraine on the improper provision of gas to the population of the Poltava region. Vladimir Boyka to the Prime Minister of Ukraine on the underfunding of local budgets in the Ternopil region. Vladimir Boyka to the Prime Minister of Ukraine on the allocation of funds for project design documentation, completion of construction and installation of a public education school in the city of Ternopol. Vasil Gladys to the Prime Minister of Ukraine on the need to take urgent action to ensure the implementation in 2013 of projects that won the All-U.S. Project Competition and the 2012 Local Self-Government Development Programme. Anton Kisse to the Minister of Health of Ukraine on measures to reduce the cost of parental care for children with cancer. Anton Kisse to the Prime Minister of Ukraine for the inclusion of objects in the Odessa region of Bolgradsky, Killia and Saratsk in 2014 under the state-wide goal of Drinking Water of Ukraine for 2011-2020. Omelana Parubka to the Minister of Internal Affairs of Ukraine on the urgent use of measures to address the issue of misconduct by officials of the Society with limited responsibility for Elite Stal in part of the immediate contractual obligations to the Remboud-Lux private enterprise. Mikhail Blavatsky to the Head of the Supreme Council of Ukraine on the unwarranted overestimation of the value of the airline services used by the Supreme Council of Ukraine. Vladimir Dudka to the Ukrainian Minister of Health on the need for all-inclusive assistance in the immediate treatment of the four - month - old Tetjana Macaruk, a four - month - old sick child. Stepan Ivakhiv to the Prime Minister of Ukraine, the head of the National Stock Exchange Company Naftogaz Ukraine, the Ministry of Energy and Coal Industry of Ukraine, for financing the construction of pipelines in Kovelski, Ratniwski, Starovizovski and Shaka oblasts of Volin region. Valeria Calchenka to the Prime Minister of Ukraine on the approval and implementation of the draft Decision of the Cabinet of Ministers of Ukraine amending the Cabinet of Ministers Order No. 1210 of 23.11.2011 on the step-by-step increase in the minimum pension rates for disabled participants in the elimination of the effects of the accident on CHAES and other persons with disabilities. Sergei Gordienka to the Prime Minister of Ukraine, head of the State Agency for Land Resources of Ukraine, Minister of Justice of Ukraine on the need for an immediate solution to the problems of registration of property rights and land leases. Groups of National Deputies (Gordienka, Samylenka and others – only 19) to the head of the High Council of Justice, the head of the Supreme Qualifications Commission of Judges on violations of effective legislation by the judge of the Kyiv District Administrative Court, Yulia Shramko. Vasil Samylenk to the Minister for Agriculture and Food of Ukraine, head of the State Agency for Land Resources of Ukraine, to decide on the transfer of 500 hectares of land to the village council of Velika Gorbash of the region of Žitomir. Jurya Derevyanka to the Prime Minister of Ukraine, Head of the State Agency for Road Traffic in Ukraine, Head of the Ivano-Frankov District State Administration on the need for immediate repairs of roads in the Ivano-Frankiv region, including in the region of Nadvirnjan and the city of Nadvirna. Oksana Sold to the Minister of Finance of Ukraine to make payments to city budget managers in Donetsk. Lilia Greenevich to Prime Minister of Ukraine on the use of urgent measures in connection with the critical state of funding work from the preparation of educational institutions for the heating season. Lilia Greenevich to the Prime Minister of Ukraine on the emergency situation of the school in the village of Rolov Drogbytsky district of Lviv Region and the need to build a general educational institution. Edward Gurwicz to the Minister of Health of Ukraine on the status of implementation of the budget programme under budget classification code 2301360 "Talking Ukrainian Citizens abroad". Jaroslava Dubnević, head of the State Agency for Road Traffic in Ukraine, head of the Road Service in Lviv region, on the capital repair of the territorial road of the State importance of the general use of Nižankovici - Sambi - Drogobic - Strý. Jaroslava Dubnević to the Minister of Energy and Coal Industry of Ukraine, head of the Lviv District State Administration to address the issue of ensuring reliable electricity supply of dwellings No. 1 and No2 in the village of Luka in the Sambir district of Lviv. Andrija Ponomarov to the Minister of Infrastructure of Ukraine on road safety in the village of the city type Starobjevo Donetské region. Groups of National Deputies (Opanastenica, Negoya, and others) A total of 4 deputies) to the Prime Minister of Ukraine for a solution to the extraordinary situation that resulted from the lack of drinking water supplies for the population of the Lower Syrian and John’s regions of the Hersonian region through the construction of the John’s group water supply. Groups of National Deputies (Opanastenica, Negoya, and others) A total of 4 deputies) to the Prime Minister of Ukraine on the need to create preconditions for the sustainable socio-economic development of rural areas in the Herson region and the full realization of the potential of its agricultural sector. Olga Sikori to the Attorney General of Ukraine on the verification of criminal offences by Yuri Black, head of the Regional Council of Rogatina, and the rightfulness of granting him the status of civil servant, the assignment of rank and the category of public service, the granting of permission to state secret. Romana Ilika to the finance minister of Ukraine on the underfunded state of education in the cities of Drogobic, Borislav, Truskavec and Drogobic region of Lviv. Vassil Wooden to the Attorney General of Ukraine for failure to execute the Ternopil City Electoral Commission of the Court's rulings, according to which the commission for the re-calculation of voters in the one-maned majority constituency No. 29 of the election of members of the Ternopil City Council of October 31, 2010 and the recognition of the unlawful decision of the committee on the recognition of Vitaly Smackousza elected as deputy of the City Council in this area. Jury of Orotyuk to the head of the National Migration Service of Ukraine, the head of the State Border Service of Ukraine on the state of protection of the state border of Ukraine, measures against illegal migration and mechanisms for closing illegal migration channels. Stepan Ivahiwa to the Prime Minister of Ukraine, head of the Volin District State Administration for the verification of the real state of preparation for the winter by the local authorities. Anton Dorokhov to the Minister of Interior of Ukraine regarding the illegal seizure of the land in the Suvorov district of Odessa. Valerija Golovka to the Minister of Finance of Ukraine for the implementation of legislation in the drafting of the State Budget for Ukraine for 2013 and 2014. Jury Wozniak to the Prime Minister of Ukraine for the protection of the interests of certified Ukrainian evaluators and for the examination of separate legal acts of the Ukrainian State Property Fund in accordance with Ukrainian legislation. Yuri Wozniak to the Prime Minister of Ukraine for the financing of repairs and reconstruction of the Goshtany Central District Hospital. Sergey Kaplina to the Cabinet of Ministers of Ukraine on the use of measures to prevent an unjustified and unjustified increase in tariffs on municipal services for residents of Poltava. Victoria Babic to the Prime Minister of Ukraine regarding the allocation of additional funding from the State budget of Ukraine for the full functioning of the municipal office of the Suma District Council of the Sumska District Centre for Emergency Medical and Disaster Medicine. Victoria Babic to the Minister of Agriculture and Food of Ukraine regarding the payment of monetary compensation according to the State Program "Selecting in Animals" to the State Enterprise "Summary State Selection Centre" to ensure payment of the debt on a paid basis at the listed enterprise. Alexander Brigintz to the Prime Minister of Ukraine on the need to take immediate measures to preserve the monument building, where the great Ukrainian writer Mikhailo Kotzubinski lived, in the town of Bar Winnitsky. Andrija Tajniboka to the Attorney General of Ukraine on the use of urgent measures of prosecutorial response aimed at verifying the theft of natural resources (nadr) in a particularly large way. Vadim Kolesnicka to the Prime Minister of Ukraine on the decision of the Cabinet of Ministers of Ukraine on certain issues relating to the implementation of the Ukrainian Act "The Single National Demographic Register and the documents supporting Ukrainian citizenship bear witness to a person or his special status" (No.185 of 13 March 2013) in accordance with the current Ukrainian legislation. Groups of National Deputies (Jaremy, Donya, Dderevyanka) to the Attorney General of Ukraine have brought legal responsibility to the perpetrators of the attack on Olga Sikor and hindered their activities as Ukrainian national deputy. Maxima Burbak to Prime Minister of Ukraine on the allocation of funds for the capital repair and reconstruction of the film theatre John Mikolaychuk in Chernivka. Maxima Burbak to the Prime Minister of Ukraine for repair work on the road in the Zastavnov region. Alexander Turchinov to the Cabinet of Ministers of Ukraine for ignoring the Minister of Justice of Ukraine and the State Registration Service of Ukraine for the parliamentary inquiry.
ParlaMint-UA_2013-09-20-m0.u69	Dear colleagues, the list of issues proposed for discussion and decision-making, you have today. Let us go to their consideration. A draft Act (registration numbers 1197, 1197-1) on probation services is being introduced. I'm making a proposal to deal with this issue with a reduced procedure. Please vote. [[11:37:13]] For the 18th. The decision is not taken. Reporter: National Deputy of Ukraine, Sweden, Victor Dmitrovich. Please.
ParlaMint-UA_2013-09-20-m0.u70	Victor Schwetz, Fatherland. Your Honor, I would like to draw your attention to the fact that, apart from the two laws that you mentioned, this is another law - 1198 - which is an integral part of Law 1197. So I'd like the Supreme Council to consider these three laws at the same time. So, with your permission, I will allow myself to express my position on the laws that I am the author of. Ladies and gentlemen of the national parliament, Mr. Chairman, there are two bills for your consideration: number 1197 on the probation service and number 1198 on the humanization of criminal legislation and the institutional and legal preconditions for the introduction of the probation service. These bills have been called upon to establish a probation service in Ukraine according to world and European standards. The Probation Service in all countries has become an integral part of the criminal justice system, and the term "test" has received international recognition at the same time that in Ukraine the probation system and the corresponding public structure are not at all. Under such circumstances, the need for the adoption of these laws is due to the lack of legal conditions in Ukraine for social work with persons suspected of committing an offence, and the criminal responsibility of those convicted, as well as for the individualized supervision of them in order to ensure that society is protected from the warning of repetitive criminal offences. Bills submitted for consideration provide for the conduct of a system of supervision and socio-educational measures, which are applied by decision of the court to persons who are attracted or who are brought to criminal responsibility. So this is, is the essence of probation, for the purpose of democratization and humanization. As well as improving Ukraine’s legislation on the order of release from criminal liability and punishment. Yes, Bill 1197 introduces for the first time an interpretation of the term "test", defining the legal basis for the organization and activities of the probation service in Ukraine, its tasks, functions and powers. Bill No. 1198 ensures that criminal justice is brought into line with international standards and that the criminal, criminal and procedural codes of Ukraine, some other legislative acts with the aim of creating conditions for humanizing the execution of sentences and the introduction of probation in Ukraine, are applied. To sum up, I would like to point out that such a vital social draft of the Probation Act was submitted to me as early as November 2008. But until now, the Supreme Council has not been able to consider it in substance. And I'm glad that now is the time when the Supreme Council is essentially considering this bill. I believe that this bill, honourable colleagues, has unfortunately not entered the list of laws that are binding on the signing of our association on the European association. But it seems to me that the humanization of criminal structures of our own, the humanization of our punishment and the necessary conditions to ensure the education and re-education of those who committed criminal offences must be completely different, that is, one that is now being introduced throughout Europe, throughout the world. When this bill was drafted, maximum use was made, believe me, international experience was used, a number of committee hearings were held, involving professionals, scientists, specialists, international colleagues from the Czech Republic, Lithuania, Great Britain. And they have shown in practice how effective the probation system is in these countries. In view of the noted, distinguished colleagues, I would like to ask the distinguished national MPs who represent the Ukrainian electorate to vote in favour of this law. It does not appear to be politicized; it is strictly a necessary law to run such a necessary and important probation system in Ukraine. Thank you for your attention and for your support.
ParlaMint-UA_2013-09-20-m0.u71	Any questions to the reporter? Yes, please sign up. Balicki National Deputy, faction of the Party of the Regions.
ParlaMint-UA_2013-09-20-m0.u72	Deputy Balicki. Please pass the word to Popescu.
ParlaMint-UA_2013-09-20-m0.u73	Pass the word to Popescu.
ParlaMint-UA_2013-09-20-m0.u74	Thank you. Sand, faction of the Party of the Regions. Reverend Victor Dmitrovich, your bill really solves two big problems. First, it creates effective mechanisms for social work with persons who are convicted or punished. And secondly, this will usually contribute to the reduction of recurrent crime in Ukraine. But it takes some money to get this service started. I wanted to ask you specific questions. First. Have you calculated how much money it takes to get us in? And second moment. Have you offered a new budget? We've seen it today, we've already talked about the new budget for 2014. And have you proposed in your bill some funds for us to start working since 2014? If not, even if we adopt this bill, it will only take effect in 2015. Thank you.
ParlaMint-UA_2013-09-20-m0.u75	Thank you for asking. I've already given an explanation for this bill, said that my bill was drafted in 2008, and it was registered in the Supreme Council, and it's only being considered in the Supreme Council today. But the fact that the honourable colleagues that the Ukrainian government has also drafted a very similar bill to my own, it shows that the government has already resolved these issues, they have been worked out. But you're asking the right question, if we're going to make the right decision now on the adoption and implementation of the appropriate State Probation Service in Ukraine, then we're going to have to think about the fact that we can only introduce this service as of January 1, 2015. Part of this budget could be taken from the State Penitentiary Service, some could be found from other sources. One such source is that if Ukraine really had a proper system of combating the theft of state funds, it would in itself have been an effective fight against it.
ParlaMint-UA_2013-09-20-m0.u76	National Deputy Kolesnichenko, faction of the Party of the Regions.
ParlaMint-UA_2013-09-20-m0.u77	A faction of Party regions, Koleschenko. Please give the floor to my colleague, Žuravsky.
ParlaMint-UA_2013-09-20-m0.u78	Vitaly Žuravsky, constituency 66, northern districts of Žitomirščina There are three bills: two of you and one of the government. Please tell us what your principle differs from that of the government. And then there's another question. How do you define the term "supervised probation" and "penitentiary probation"? This is also very important in terms of legal practice. Thank you.
ParlaMint-UA_2013-09-20-m0.u79	Thank you for asking. You asked the right question. The point is that these two bills: both mine and the government -- and the third is just a bill that makes changes to actual legislation in relation to the introduction of probation services -- that is, it's not a law itself, you understand. But if you only talk about the law that is mine and the Cabinet of Ministers, I would say that these two laws -- they complement each other, they don't conflict with each other. In the first law, one part is better written; in the second law, the other part is better written. As for the government bill, it was later developed and it takes into account some of the changes that have taken place in our legislation, particularly the adoption of the Criminal Procedure Code. So, I think it would be absolutely logical and right out of these two laws to make one -- and to introduce the probation service in Ukraine, it's absolutely necessary, including mutually defining the way you compromise on these two definitions that you're talking about right now.
ParlaMint-UA_2013-09-20-m0.u80	Thank you. Sit down, Viktor Dmitrovich. First Deputy Justice Minister Jemelyanov Inna Ivanovna is invited to report.
ParlaMint-UA_2013-09-20-m0.u81	Thank you. Dear Igor Grigorovich, the distinguished national deputies of Ukraine! Your opinion is presented by the government's Probation Bill. The key aspect of the bill is the introduction of a system of probation and the establishment of a criminal investigation of probation authorities that will exist in the structure of the State Criminal Enforcement Service. In addition to the execution of penalties that are not related to the deprivation of liberty, as is now the case with criminal inspection, the procedural authorities will have a number of other functions that are available to the procedural services of the European States. The corresponding government bill proposes three kinds of probation: trial, supervision and penitentiary. What makes them different? The trial will involve preparation at the request of the Court of Justice. So this is going to be written information that will characterize a person who is attracted to criminal responsibility. The trial report should contain an assessment of the risk of re-criminal delinquency and the conclusions on the possibility of correcting the offender without being deprived of the will. And this, of course, will allow the court to make a fully balanced decision as to whether or not to select a penalty and, above all, to punish a person without being deprived of his will if an appropriate finding is made on the possibility of correcting a person without such a punishment. The purpose of the supervisory test is to carry out surveillance and socio-educational measures. To whom will it apply? This is primarily the case with those sentenced to imprisonment in the form of being deprived of the will to hold certain positions or to engage in certain activities, public works, correctional work, and persons released from unchallenged punishment. By the way, the last category is based on the number of persons currently involved in criminal investigations, the largest number, is estimated at 87 percent. And with regard to this category of individuals, trial programs will be implemented. The bill, by the way, defines what an experimental program is and what it will be. This will include a set of measures aimed at correcting social behavior, shaping the positive personality of a probationary client that may be tested further on appropriate criteria. In addition, the bill also provides for the introduction of a volunteer institution – volunteers whose main task will be to assist the probation authorities in overseeing and carrying out socio-educational work by clients, and we understand that it will be an institution of civil society. And the next, third, the species I was talking about is penitentiary probation. It is designed to train persons who are punished in the form of a restriction of will or a deprivation of liberty for a certain period of time, with a view to their employment and household arrangements, such persons, at his chosen place of residence, after being released from prison. These are the so - called programs for the future socialization of persons after being released from their places of deprivation so that they can find their proper place in our society. A few words are helpful about the existence of such an institution in European countries. First of all, I would like to say that all countries are governed by the Council of Europe's probation rules. They were adopted by the Council of Europe as early as 2010. And the experience of countries is already very strong, which we have had the opportunity to learn in the drafting of our bill, I can only call examples of European states. This is also Britain, Sweden, Norway, the Netherlands, Austria, Hungary, Czech Republic, our neighbours: Estonia, Lithuania, Moldova. In terms of numbers, in developed European countries, the ratio of convicted persons in places of deprivation and those who have been sentenced to other types of punishment and who are subject to different probation programmes is one to two, i.e. those who are subject to probation programmes are twice as many. And this, of course, serves as a downward trend in crime. This is especially important regarding crimes committed by minors or those who commit crimes for the first time. Thus, as a result of the adoption of the law, we expect a reduction in the number of convicts who are held in isolation from society and the prevalence of the practice of the courts, the application of penalties, the use of alternative deprivation of liberty. More help. Today, there are 137 thousand people who are sentenced to non-freedom sentences in criminal inspection, on the basis of which it is proposed to create a system of probation. This is where Victor Dmitrovich's question about the financial possibilities for government calculations for the creation of a probationary system now came to light? Like I said, it's not going to be a new system. Probation services are offered, they will be created on the basis of criminal inspection. And as of today, there are 697 criminal inspection units in the state, a total of 3,000 141 people. So for today, there are adequate services that I've already told you are in a criminal-executive inspection. All vacancies are now filled, they perform functions such as parental or supervisory functions, but according to other principles that are now provided for in the Criminal Enforcement Code. Please support the Government's bill.
ParlaMint-UA_2013-09-20-m0.u82	Ladies and gentlemen, is there a question for the rapporteur? Please sign up. Paul Rosenko, Faction of the Strike Party.
ParlaMint-UA_2013-09-20-m0.u83	Paul Rosenco, Vitaly Calla. Well, in this case, it's certainly possible to support the idea of reducing institutions. The corresponding institutions have reduced the number of people serving sentences and, in principle, replaced such, hard, conditions for depriving themselves of more democratic will. But this raises the question of always financial possibilities. Of course, there's an economy, because there's a decline in the number of people in the reformed colonies. But maybe it's worth talking about that there's going to be an increase in the costs of providing the necessary legal, psychological and generally working with that contingent of people who will, in principle, remain at large in such more free conditions. Is there any guarantee in your bill that proper funding will be an incentive to do so?
ParlaMint-UA_2013-09-20-m0.u84	Thank you for asking. Well, about the guarantees that the state will provide for the appropriate funds, I've already commented on the rest of my report that such guarantees are, based on the fact that there are already criminal-executive inspections to date, about 700 of them. And it is on the basis of these 700 criminal investigations that probation services will be created. At present, they have existed for more than a year, with adequate funding provided for each year in the State budget, and adequate funding will also be provided for the following financial year. That's over three thousand people working in these criminal-executive inspections. As to which criteria should be chosen as to whether or not to enter probation services. In my view, the main criterion is not to do so financially, although it is now financially strengthened, and the main criterion is that society must be healthy. And if those who are serving punishment today are to be punished regardless of the type of punishment: either in connection with the deprivation of the will or not in connection with the deprivation of the will, they are to be reintegrated after the punishment.
ParlaMint-UA_2013-09-20-m0.u85	National Deputy Kolesnichenko, faction of the Party of the Regions.
ParlaMint-UA_2013-09-20-m0.u86	Faction Party regions, Koleshničenko, Sevastopol. I would like to hand it over to my faction colleague, Jaroslav Sukh.
ParlaMint-UA_2013-09-20-m0.u87	The word is passed on to Jaroslav Sukh.
ParlaMint-UA_2013-09-20-m0.u88	Another Ivanovna, well, for Ukraine, is a perfectly normal situation when even a person may find himself in prison for a minor misdemeanour. And the fact that our prisons are overcrowded is of course not a European norm. One example, today, businessman Jaroslav Pizhinski is in the Parisian S.I.A. It's a great time just because he has some business quarrel with another businessman, there's no crime. We've been talking to you, and the Attorney General's Office, and so forth. This is an abnormal phenomenon when Jaroslav Pižinsky is in the detention facility, not for crime, but for business disputes. Please tell me, will the creation of a probation service somehow improve the criminal situation in society, or will it not allow? Thank you.
ParlaMint-UA_2013-09-20-m0.u89	Thank you for asking. Well, as far as a particular example is concerned, it is, of course, outside. Beyond the legal regulation of the Probation Service Act, this issue is regulated by the Criminal Procedure Code, which recently took effect last year. And it already contains appropriate standards that limit, let's say, the application of a precautionary measure in the form of keeping in custody with clear defined criteria and this is exclusively the jurisdiction of the court under the Constitution of our State to apply a precautionary measure such as keeping in custody instead of alternative measures. With regard to the question of whether the bill would improve the criminal situation in the state, of course it would. Of course, yes, because those forms of probation that are proposed to introduce the bill are. Those programs, for example, the socio-educational character, the labour character, they're going to allow for the future with the introduction of trial programs, and they're going to allow the future to return to the normal life of those who have committed crimes. I'd like to pay particular attention to that.
ParlaMint-UA_2013-09-20-m0.u90	Finish up. Turn on the microphone.
ParlaMint-UA_2013-09-20-m0.u91	Thank you. This is especially true of the category of persons who committed a crime for the first time or are minors. To ensure that the institution of execution of sentences, for example, does not damage their psychological condition and that the State will create conditions for their employment, the State has created conditions for providing them with social protection for the future. Thank you.
ParlaMint-UA_2013-09-20-m0.u92	Thank you. Sit down, Inna Ivanovna. Dear National Deputies! There's a 30-minute recess, up to 12 o'clock 30 minutes. (Noise in the hall)
ParlaMint-UA_2013-09-20-m0.u93	Ladies and gentlemen, we continue our work. Invite the deputies to the session room. And the report invites the deputy head of the Committee on Law Enforcement, Vladimir Mikolaiovich Olijnik. Please.
ParlaMint-UA_2013-09-20-m0.u94	Dear Volodymyr Vasilovich, dear colleagues! There will be absolutely no exaggeration if we say that this bill is European. And that's because it's essentially totally setting new European standards in this job. I want to thank the two previous rapporteurs, because they actually made reasonable conclusions, and in general the positions coincide. And everything else we can work on is the second reading. The Committee on Legislative Protection examined the draft Probation Service Act submitted by the Ukrainian National MP Victor Sweden. And there's an alternative draft of the Probation Act submitted by the Cabinet of Ministers of Ukraine. I want to remind you that the issue of probation is one of the problems without which the reform of criminal justice will never work. And our committee has long held this issue in its sight. As early as 2008, after a series of round tables and expert meetings, a law was drafted and submitted to Parliament by the national deputy of Ukraine, Sweden. The bill became a kind of training course on which various options for the introduction of the probation system in Ukraine were worked out. But the basic ideas found in it remain relevant today. There are a number of objective reasons why it is difficult for Victor Dmitrovitch Sweden to accept the bill today, even though it has all its advantages. First of all, the system of executive organs has completely changed, which is the core of the probationary organ. Second, the new Code of Criminal Procedure has been adopted. Thirdly, even the Constitution changed when it was restored to the old one. Yes, the bill (registration 1197) envisions the creation of a new probation service. At the same time, while the government body is proposing to use the work that was laid down in the Victor Sweden bill and to formally write the project standards according to the latest legislative changes. The government bill envisions the creation of a system of probationary organs established by the central executive body and its territorial authorities. That is to say, it is proposed to conduct a model of probation in the work of an existing service – a criminal executive inspection that is proposed to be renamed into probationary organs and given additional powers and responsibilities. I'll tell you, my colleagues said a lot of things about what this service is specific about. The point is that before that, indeed, criminal executive inspection performed similar functions, but above all they did not use such instruments as a court, which must do everything to ensure that the rights of citizens are not violated, that the principle of equality, the irreparability of punishment, but also additional control be upheld. It's very important that customers who are probationary clients are people who are drawn to criminal responsibility for which probation authorities are preparing a trial report. And it's important that this trial report involves the customer himself. So he's working with government authorities. What a goal, everyone's been talking. The goal is to apply the entire system of social, legal mechanisms so that, in the end, there will be no recurrences of delinquency so that those who commit crimes, but who are already serving sentences, and who will come out, who will come out of the correctional institutions, can adapt to life so that they can have little support in employment, in social matters, in teaching. That's what this is all about. Therefore, the Chief Expert Office proposes that both bills be sent for further work. But the committee believes that we need to move on, there is an opportunity to redraft the government bill for the second reading. Therefore, we propose to adopt the bill as a basis and to further develop the bill on a governmental basis. Thank you for your attention.
ParlaMint-UA_2013-09-20-m0.u95	The question is to the reporter? None. Is it? One question about Yavorowski? Is there no one else? Is it? I'm asking you to sign up for the question. Please, Fatherland faction, National Deputy Wozniak.
ParlaMint-UA_2013-09-20-m0.u96	Please pass the word to Vladimir Yavorowski.
ParlaMint-UA_2013-09-20-m0.u97	Let's give you a word.
ParlaMint-UA_2013-09-20-m0.u98	Vladimir Yavorowski, Trinity, Fatherland. The honourable reporter, of course, that Ukrainian society, from my point of view, divides into three categories: some of those who are deprived of their will entirely, others are those who are in a state of suit, and so-called free society. Of course, this bill is proposed, this topic seems to have been so on the periphery, let's say, political and parliamentary attention. And it's a good thing that our colleague and government finally decided to touch on this subject and to humanize it a little bit. Because of this "Fatherland" will support the voices that we have, because some people have gone to Moscow to compete, some have gone to Yalta and so on, will fully support the Swedish Bill. And I would like to say very much, given this opportunity, what is happening in Yalta today.
ParlaMint-UA_2013-09-20-m0.u99	Finish up.
ParlaMint-UA_2013-09-20-m0.u100	Very important information. Today, the President of Lithuania, whose name is Viktor Fedorovich, of course, confused her, said that we don't have Timoshenko, but the gas prices are much higher.
ParlaMint-UA_2013-09-20-m0.u101	What did you say to answer the question?
ParlaMint-UA_2013-09-20-m0.u102	Why is this a draft of the Probation Act?
ParlaMint-UA_2013-09-20-m0.u103	Please. There's nothing to answer?
ParlaMint-UA_2013-09-20-m0.u104	You want gas? I can answer for gas. But I don't think that's the subject of this bill. Knowing the answer, I still think we need to stick to order -- and talk about a specific bill. And I'll give you an answer on the gas somewhere else.
ParlaMint-UA_2013-09-20-m0.u105	Party of regions, national deputy of Žuravsky. Please.
ParlaMint-UA_2013-09-20-m0.u106	Dear Vladimir Mikolaiovich, we are looking at three bills. There's a lot of value in the two bills of the Swedish deputy. But the bill in the Cabinet of Ministers is better because it is indeed written on the basis of the Constitution of 1996 and on the basis of the adopted new law, the new Criminal Procedure Code of Ukraine. In addition, the definition of supervision and penitentiary probation is clearly defined. That's why we're going to support the government bill. And yet the question to you is, the decline in the number of convicted people is usually very good, it's consistent with European tradition. These people don't leave for a month, they stay here and we work with them. What's the amount of money going to cost the state's budget for the introduction of probation programs? Thank you.
ParlaMint-UA_2013-09-20-m0.u107	Well, first of all, the most complex part of these bills is transitional and final positions. None of the deputies can write them. Why? Because this law requires organizational and financial resources. Why is the bill more important than the need to support the ideas and the Swedish National MP? He'll work. As far as you're concerned, we're certainly not proposing to form a clean letter, but on the basis of the criminal-executive inspection that's going on today. It is difficult to calculate the benefits, for if the person who committed the crime still does not make the relapse, try to calculate the benefits when there is material damage, tears, and tragedy. Thus, such a system has had an effect in Europe. We need rules, of course, we need to make a lot more effort to organize this work in order to have a European performance and a good result, I'm deeply convinced.
ParlaMint-UA_2013-09-20-m0.u108	Thank you, sit down. I'm asking you to sign up for the factions for the performance. Matthew, National Deputy, faction of the Ukrainian Company.
ParlaMint-UA_2013-09-20-m0.u109	Please pass the word to Gerasimchuk Mikhail Ivanovich.
ParlaMint-UA_2013-09-20-m0.u110	We give the word to Gerasimczuk, the national deputy.
ParlaMint-UA_2013-09-20-m0.u111	The faction of the Ukrainian Company, Mikhailo Gerasimchuk. We, the faction, will really support the Kabmin bill. He aims to allow those who have committed crimes to be punished without free will. That's why the faction will support this bill, and hopefully this will make it possible to improve the work that will be done by the bill.
ParlaMint-UA_2013-09-20-m0.u112	Thank you. The Vitalia Klitschka faction, National Deputy Raupov.
ParlaMint-UA_2013-09-20-m0.u113	Please give the floor to the People's Deputy. Thank you.
ParlaMint-UA_2013-09-20-m0.u114	Pass it on, please.
ParlaMint-UA_2013-09-20-m0.u115	Nadravichenko, Ukrainian National Deputy, Vitalia Klicka faction. The position of the faction is clear: we need to humanize this area, which is called the area of punishment. The other one. It must be promoted that the person who received the sentence was not deprived of the right to dignity, health, and communication with the family. That's why any humanisation of Ukraine's legislation -- we support everything. The other one. We want such a probation organ to be central to the functions of every Ukrainian family and Ukrainian citizen. Psychologists, social assistance, communication, and treatment of every citizen should be available. Then we have a specific legislative proposal in the Supreme Council in accordance with article 114 of the Supreme Council Rules to forward both bills to the Main Committee for the preparation of a harmonized draft Law for re-reading. In doing so, we suggest that we make it clear that a reformed criminal-executive inspection should become such a probationary body and have new humanities in its work. Thank you for your attention.
ParlaMint-UA_2013-09-20-m0.u116	Thank you. The faction of the Party of the Regions, the national deputy of Žuravsky.
ParlaMint-UA_2013-09-20-m0.u117	Dear colleagues, I will follow the text more clearly: what is proposed if. There are changes to three normative documents: the Criminal Code, the Criminal Enforcement Code of Ukraine and the Ukrainian Criminal Procedure Act. The fundamental changes to the Criminal Code: of the five positions of article 76, another 6th, 7th, 8th, 9th and 10th. The second position sounds completely new. Article 76 clearly points to the responsibilities that the court places on a person who is exempt from the punishment of a trial, or "to refrain from contact with persons who are appointed by the court." Second position. Third. "To refrain from visiting the territory determined by the court." Fourth position. "Do not go outside Ukraine for permanent residence without the permission of the central authority of the executive authority, which implements public policy in the field of criminal punishment and trial." Fifth position. "Don't leave your residence in a court-appointed hour." Sixth position. "Notify the procedural organs of change in residence, employment or education." Seven, which was previously not in the Criminal Code. "To undergo treatment for mental and behavioral disorders as a result of the use of psychoactive substances or diseases that pose a risk to the health of others." Eight. Officially employed. This was also not found in the Criminal Code. The ninth. "To get a complete general secondary education." And the tenth. "Partying in trial programs." This is exactly the same in similar legislation in all European countries. And what's very good, more clearly, compared to the bills of the Honourable Deputy of Sweden, is the definition of what "supervised probation" is, which is "penitentiary probation." So this law is essential for Ukraine to humanize our legislation. Thank you for your attention. And the Party of Regions will support the government project. Thank you.
ParlaMint-UA_2013-09-20-m0.u118	The Fatherland faction, the Ilik People's Deputy.
ParlaMint-UA_2013-09-20-m0.u119	Dear Mr. Head, please pass the word to Yuri Odarchenk, the "Fatherland" faction.
ParlaMint-UA_2013-09-20-m0.u120	Please, Yuri Odarchenko.
ParlaMint-UA_2013-09-20-m0.u121	Thank you, Mr. Roman. Dear friends, these are very important bills, and they could also be called Euro-Integration Laws. Because they testify to a certain vector of the humanization of Ukrainian society and the creation of appropriate conditions for those who need them. But you can see that today we can't vote for the adoption of these bills in the first reading, because we can see that there are no suitable number of deputies. I think it's a very good suggestion that today, in order for us not to put this nice initiative on the long run, we have to send it to the committee. I think it's a more elaborate bill by Mr. Sweden, because some of the rules applied in the bill proposed by the government seem to be inappropriate. Dear friends, for example, seem quite strange when trial may be assigned to a person whose guilt is not proved by a court of law. It would not be desirable for us to do all we can to avoid this humanization in Ukraine by covering ourselves up as if by humanitarianism. I want to focus on: imagine, any person who hasn't gone through, their guilt isn't proven in court, today can get under surveillance, control of their behavior. And that seems to me to be a completely inappropriate norm. Vladimir Vasilovich, we propose today to put to the vote the question of re-examination to the committee of these two bills in order to create a single, more perfect and acceptable one for Ukrainian society. Thank you.
ParlaMint-UA_2013-09-20-m0.u122	The factions of the Freedom Union, the National MP of the Marcinkov.
ParlaMint-UA_2013-09-20-m0.u123	Please pass the word to Eugene Melnik.
ParlaMint-UA_2013-09-20-m0.u124	Please, People's Deputy Melnik.
ParlaMint-UA_2013-09-20-m0.u125	Dear Chairman, distinguished national MPs! The need to establish a Probation Institute as a system of supervision and socio-educational measures in Ukraine is undeniable. As evidenced by the international practice of countering crime, punishment in the form of deprivation of liberty should be used as a last resort to influencing dangerous criminals, since isolation from society often contributes to the destruction of personality, the loss of social and beneficial relationships. In countries: Denmark, Sweden, Italy and France -- the probation service remains part of the Department of Prisons and the execution of sentences, as proposed in Bill 1197-1. In Belgium, the Netherlands, and Germany, the work of the Probation Service regarding detained criminals is separated from working with those who need the will, as proposed in Bill 1197, by establishing a separate government body of the State Probation Service. I consider it necessary to create a State Probation Service, as the methods of working probation workers differ from the traditional methods of penitentiary workers and are more focused on social, educational work. In addition, I point out that Bill 1197 failed to apply the jargon term "probation clients". Generally, customers are called lawyers, banks, notaries. It is more appropriate in the bill to describe this category as "the subject of probation." It is also unclear how a trial program assigned by a court to a person released from trial will be applied in practice, since according to part five of article 11 of the draft, the Cabinet of Ministers determines the order and implementation of such programs. In view of the foregoing, the faction of the All-U.S. Freedom Group proposes to approve the adoption of the Probation Service Bill at number 1197 and to reject the government's 1197-1. Glory to Ukraine!
ParlaMint-UA_2013-09-20-m0.u126	Dear National Deputies! The MPs have come out of factions, there will be no vote. Vote what? There are 170 national deputies in the hall today. You don't wave your hands, and there won't be a vote. So, listen, you all know the rules? And we're learning. Article 44, Adam Ivanovich: A vote in the decision-making of the Supreme Council on any matter shall be held at the plenary meeting immediately after its discussion. I'd say I should, but, "except when it's impossible to vote." Voting is not possible because the discipline of the national deputies is 170. We'll deal with faction leaders, and then, when we get together, we vote in favour of this law. That's the first one. And we have a 13-hour speech by the deputies. So we're going to go to the MPs now, and I want to make an announcement. As you know, on September 12, 2013, the Supreme Administrative Court of Ukraine passed a ruling declaring the results of Ukraine's national election to be unreliable on October 28, 2012 in a one-man election district number 133, established by the Central Election Commission. This decision also annulled the CTC's decision of 23 November 2012 No. 1980 in the part of the registration of the elected national deputy in the one-man election district No. 133 Markova Igora Olegovic. Mark’s lack of status and authority of the Ukrainian People’s Deputy has been acknowledged, and the CEC is obliged to take action by organizing the preparation and re-election of Ukraine’s national deputies in a one-man election district of 133 in accordance with the requirements of Ukraine’s electoral legislation. This judicial decision has gained legal effect since the proclamation and cannot be charged. In accordance with article 124, part 5, of the Constitution, judicial decisions are required to be implemented throughout Ukraine, and we will comply with the decision of the court. Thank you. (Applause) Let's go to the "Variance" section. Please, please, please!
ParlaMint-UA_2013-09-20-m0.u127	People's deputies please log in. Thank you. Before the speech, I'd like to invite the People's Deputy of Kurenny, the Strike faction. Please, the People's Deputy of Kuren.
ParlaMint-UA_2013-09-20-m0.u128	Please give the floor to the national MP Dubnevich.
ParlaMint-UA_2013-09-20-m0.u129	Thank you. Please, National Deputy Dubnevich.
ParlaMint-UA_2013-09-20-m0.u130	Dear national MPs, distinguished voters! Jaroslav Dubnevich, Vitalia Klitschka faction, 120th constituency, City, Bridge and Sambirsztina Lvivščina. In the next week, all of us will travel through the constituencies, more than those who will host the receptions, will inevitably face the problem, the point, and the direction of overcoming it in my speech. It's about the growth of the population of Ukraine with malignant neoplasms, in simple words: an increase in cancer. At a time when modern medicine allows to reduce the death toll from cancers in cases where official, MOS, statistics show terrible figures. Over the past five years, cancer has increased by 2.4 percent. So the annual increase in disease rates is 0.6 percent. Any doctor will tell you that the main cause of this situation is the lack of equipment for timely diagnosis and treatment that should be a hindrance to this terrible disease. And you and I, honourable members of the people, should not stand outside of this problem. Cancer indicators are offset by proportional costs to be placed annually in Ukraine’s state budget for the purchase of modern hospital equipment, especially for cancer dispensers. On September 6, 2012, the Ukrainian Law "On State Lotteries in Ukraine" was passed, which took effect on October 6, 2012. It has a requirement for the Cabinet of Ministers of Ukraine: to provide in the draft laws of Ukraine on the State Budget for Ukraine adequate accounting of the funds received from state lottery numbers in Ukraine and to direct these funds to finance the treatment of children with cancer and oncogatological diseases and to finance culture and sport. In 2012, lottery operators paid nearly 240 million dollars of direct taxes to Ukraine’s State budget, between 2011 and 160 million dollars, in 2010 and 115 million dollars. With the adoption of Ukraine's new Law on State Lottery, such revenues will increase further. However, the Ukrainian State Budget Act 2013 does not provide the Ministry of Health with the target of specific treatment measures for both adults and children with cancer and onc hemorrhagic diseases, the purchase of valuable equipment for diagnosis and treatment of such diseases. We are for financing culture and sport, but also for financing and overcoming cancer. To this end, I have drafted, along with other national MPs, an appropriate bill amending the Ukrainian Law on State Lottery in Ukraine on the purpose of channelling funds for the acquisition of equipment for diagnosis and treatment of cancers in Ukraine (registration No. 3292). Please do not be indifferent to the problem of overcoming cancer and support the bill in its consideration in committees and in the session room. Thank you for your attention.
ParlaMint-UA_2013-09-20-m0.u131	Thank you. As a matter of minutes, please give the MP Jaroslav Sukhoma.
ParlaMint-UA_2013-09-20-m0.u132	Thank you. Dear colleagues, I ask that you pay attention to the following situation. Yesterday, a colleague of Stoyan's asked a question about the need to regulate the working places of photocopiers on the bed of the press on the balcony. I am outraged by the biased reaction that followed, and the attempt to subdue a political subtext to it would seem to be a question of order. It's about the basic requirements of safety at work, and not so much about us, but about the photocorders that can be hard to traumatize. I want to remind the MPs. In our previous calls, we had normal conditions, an agreement that no one would listen or look. No one put cameras and lenses on the linens of the balcony. That's why I'm asking either the Supreme Council Secretariat or we're going to renew those normal human arrangements and the Secretariat's response to the photocrust. Or some protective equipment should be installed, as is the case in all parts of the world. Thank you. Please accept my statement.
ParlaMint-UA_2013-09-20-m0.u133	Thank you. Here's to you, Martinyuk. Martinyuk gives the word. Please.
ParlaMint-UA_2013-09-20-m0.u134	Dear Chairman, colleagues, respected citizens of Ukraine! Yesterday, from the microphone of the Supreme Council of Ukraine, I informed the leaders of our state, the law enforcement authorities and the public of Ukraine that in the village of Petrakiyivka of the Horoli region of Poltava on the night of September 18th to 19th this year, a group of people representing the Freedom Party was sloppily and cowardlyly destroyed the monument of Volodymyr Ilchi Lenin. Law enforcement officials who responded quickly were professionally detained by this group with all the tools of the crime. The actions of those who committed the crime bear all the signs of an organized criminal group. During the period of documenting the facts of the crime and preparing for trial by the People's Deputies of Freedom, Miroshnichenko, Mishchenk, Illenk, Michalčin and a group of young people of this political power were subjected to unprecedented pressure on law enforcement and public officials. This was in the form of a threat of destruction and physical destruction, which was detected by means of objective self - control. I am also surprised today by the situation, as are all Poltajniks, that the representatives of this party, from various microphones of the media, are throwing dirt at the defenders of Poltavščina itself! This indignant power of the Poltava region and of all its inhabitants. And they think it's an attempt to destabilize and destabilize the situation in the area. I declare that the law enforcement agencies of the Choral region of Poltava acted exclusively within and in a manner defined by the laws of Ukraine, for which we express our great gratitude and wish for further such service. We call our society’s attention to the danger of fascisming Ukraine, and we propose to join forces to combat it. I ask the Office of the Attorney General of Ukraine, the Ministry of Internal Affairs of Ukraine, to ensure prompt, comprehensive, impartial investigation into this crime and the involvement of the perpetrators in criminal responsibility. I ask the chairman, in accordance with the Ukrainian Act on the Rules of Procedure of the Supreme Council, to give a mandate, my statement is considered a parliamentary request to the Attorney-General and the Minister of Internal Affairs of Ukraine. Thank you for your attention.
ParlaMint-UA_2013-09-20-m0.u135	Thank you. Eugene Melnik is invited to attend. He's giving the word to Andrew Illenck. Please.
ParlaMint-UA_2013-09-20-m0.u136	Glory to Ukraine! Dear Society, 22 years of independence have recently been celebrated. And, literally, in the village of Poltava in the region of Poltava, the syphilitic and bloodthirsty maniac Lenin collapsed. As a result, we have seen some completely inadequate response from law enforcement officials. That's what's happening, some kind of national P.D.: police leadership, the D.A.'s office -- they're all coming to the scene, and they're starting to catch everyone within a 50-mile radius who might be there. They're detaining a group of people who were returning from Poltava from the Party Freedom Council. They're being held up. A group of militiamen, using firearms to threaten them with physical assault, are keeping them virtually a period of time without any charges being brought against them, without any evidence that they were allegedly violating anything, as if they were doing something. This is done directly because there are thousands of representatives from the party of GULAG and the famine that is here, which has pushed the investigation, pushed the militia, tried to falsify the criminal case and actually carried on political repression against the "liberators". I think it's just that all this shit that's sitting here, Communist, it's going to be said that way soon when it's being tried in the Nuremberg trial for all the crimes that you haven't yet repented of, for the millions of Ukrainians you've starved to death, for all those you've sent to Siberia for all those you've killed. And your monuments to this Lenin, a bloody maniac, are no place for them in Ukraine. And believe me, there will soon be no such bloody beatings in Ukraine, and this process will not stop. What's important is that these days it's a series of political repressions, because people were kept out of food, people were kept out of water, people were kept in Scottish conditions, they were forced, they even wanted to be undressed, we certainly didn't allow it, there all the six Communists were walking, sorry, kissing in one place the militia, the prosecutor's office, complaining, asking for more freedom, and so on. But, society, you just have to understand that Freedom, unlike your sales desk, is an ideological party that will sweep you away from your history. Prepare to go to the dumpster, where you belong, because you are political garbage and your Lenin, your marzamatic will be there with you, and the monuments will be standing on the garbage bins and in the Museum of Victims of Communism! Prepare for your political end! Glory to Ukraine!
ParlaMint-UA_2013-09-20-m0.u137	I beg your pardon, Deputy Borita.
ParlaMint-UA_2013-09-20-m0.u138	Turn on the microphone! Please give my word to my colleague, Victoria Babic.
ParlaMint-UA_2013-09-20-m0.u139	Pass it on, please.
ParlaMint-UA_2013-09-20-m0.u140	Thank you. Dear chairman, distinguished voters, distinguished national MPs! Well, first of all, I'm going to start by sponsoring a campaign called Freedoms. Well, that's not what today is. More. I want to talk to you, we have Dr. Irina Dmitrovna, she can help you. Today, I went to the rostrum to hear about the reforms that are being undertaken in the Sumstin, especially in the city of the Bilopil region, in the city of railways. But with the arrival of orange power, it almost lost that definition. And it's because the newly discovered Democrats didn't see the way of further development of the city. Then it was almost a question of the final closure of the Enchantment Station. Fortunately, this problem has been solved for the benefit of the people by interfering with the Communist Party. In 2010, for the first time in several decades, capital officials allocated funds for the construction of the station. And it seemed now that everything would be done differently for the benefit of the people. But that was not what was supposed to happen. The local hospital was in danger. The hospital now employs five doctors and 20 experts in the younger medical chain. They plan to leave only one doctor and two nurses. And that's just the tip of an iceberg called "improvement." In fact, the question of population distribution is now being solved in two categories. The first category is railways, which, after reform, are planning to serve at the Conotap Node Hospital, which is 80 kilometers from the city. In addition, a regular professional survey of railways will also be carried out at the Konotap Hospital. And the rest of the inhabitants of divination will be reassigned to the district hospital of Bilopilla, where they will find their way into trouble. Full medical care is required for the city’s normal activity and for the railway node. Today, more than 7.5 thousand people live in the city. Among them are 800 railways, 800 pensioners, and 810 children. In total, in the first half of 2013, there were about 13,000 visits to the Vorozbian Police Department. At the daily station there were 258 persons and more than 10,000 pre-transmission checks were carried out. This data suggests that there is no way of reducing the state of the police station and closing the day station. As a national MP, I couldn't be away from such a problem, so I asked the minister of infrastructure to stop the reorganization of the Vorzhbian Police Department. And today's performance, please.
ParlaMint-UA_2013-09-20-m0.u141	Thank you. I, your permission, the next speaker, think he'll continue. Please let me finish.
ParlaMint-UA_2013-09-20-m0.u142	Request to Prime Minister Nikola Janović Azarov of Ukraine for immediate intervention and compliance with the requirements of article 49 of the Ukrainian Constitution on the right of every Ukrainian citizen to health care and medical care. Enough improvements, enough optimization! We demand just a decent life for all citizens of Ukraine. Thank you.
ParlaMint-UA_2013-09-20-m0.u143	Thank you. Ladies and gentlemen, you're taking up time in your performances, not with me, but with each other. So I'd very much like to ask you to invest in these three minutes that you've been given. May I have the floor of the People's Deputy Gubar.
ParlaMint-UA_2013-09-20-m0.u144	Victor Gubar. Please pass the word to Dzardan.
ParlaMint-UA_2013-09-20-m0.u145	Please give me your word.
ParlaMint-UA_2013-09-20-m0.u146	Begin! Dear President, distinguished deputies, radio and television audiences! The Communist faction has always given serious attention to construction. First Secretary, the faction manager personally visited several shipbuilding plants. However, the law adopted today on the experiment in construction is not being implemented. And what could be the experiment in construction if we've been building courts for 220 years?Oh, my God! Nikolai Ivanovich Azarov, at the first meeting of our faction, promised to help the builders. However, this assistance is not being implemented. No laws have been adopted to facilitate the implementation of the law's experiment. Catastrophe situation in the 61 Communist factory. No orders. Debts on wages amount to more than 20 million bracelets. Worse situation at the Ocean factory: the construction of ships has been phased out in the first place. The Corvette project set up by the President is not being implemented at the Black Sea factory, and the funding schedule for the courts is not being met. The most unfortunate situation is that those responsible for this are the so-called shipowners and Freedom, who are present in the room.
ParlaMint-UA_2013-09-20-m0.u147	Society, I'd like you to hold back, please.
ParlaMint-UA_2013-09-20-m0.u148	Viet Nam's experience, China's experience, Soviet Ukraine's experience. It's time to start building ships!
ParlaMint-UA_2013-09-20-m0.u149	Everyone, please calm down, respectable society, please calm down! Yes, thank you. Please calm down, please don't interrupt the performances! Please calm down and step away from the rostrum! Your Honor, please step away from the rostrum, please calm down and allow the national MPs to continue speaking! The people’s deputy Leonov is invited to attend. He's giving his word to the national MP, Pankevitch, please. 3: 16:39
ParlaMint-UA_2013-09-20-m0.u150	The All-Ukrainian Freedom Union is concerned about Russia's systematic attempts to blackmail Ukraine in order to change its foreign policy course and break the signing of the Association Agreement with the European Union in Vilnius in November of this year. Freedom sees the signing of the Association Agreement as an important step towards affirming Ukraine's independence, weakening Russia's influence, and as a tool for overcoming the consequences of Soviet occupation. Russia took another step yesterday to make relations with Ukraine worse, calling the mouths of officials of its Ministry of Foreign Affairs the position of Ukraine to defend its own economic interests by "sneaking" and "maintaining". Earlier, in just the last few months, Russia had been marked by such outright hostile practices as the ban on the import of Ukrainian goods, the cynical killing of Ukrainian fishermen, the sudden introduction of a regime for strengthening customs checks for all Ukrainian goods, which was a direct economic aggression against Ukraine, the violation of the rules of the SND free trade treaty, and the failure to comply with the Budapest Memorandum. Russia's current political leadership is pursuing neo-Imperal politics, ignoring sovereignty and the free self-determination of its neighbours. This is another scientific indication that the road plans for the reintegration of post - Soviet space are primarily built on instruments of coercion, blackmail, and deception, not brotherly feelings and mutual convenience. While Ukraine seeks to build relations with the European Union on the basis of shared values and economic cooperation, the Russian approach is based on partialism, threats and the granting of questionable subsidies and preferences of a political nature. Such a relationship is unacceptable to us. Against the background of the active involvement of Ukraine in the Customs Union, we also observe the extraordinary activity of the Fifth Column Communists, who for the past 20 years have not only been on schedule, along with their allies in the Party of Regions, engaged in the plundering of the state, but has always been an instrument of Moscow influence. After pushing an anti-constitutional law on the U.S. referendum into the Supreme Council, the authorities allowed the communists to expand a large-scale pierar company on what they called the Customs Union retreat. However, we are grateful to those European deputies who today endorse resolutions in support of Ukraine. We also urge the Ukrainian society to unite in overcoming the Yanukovic regime, in asserting Ukrainian independence, in implementing better European standards and preserving national values. Glory to Ukraine!
ParlaMint-UA_2013-09-20-m0.u151	Thank you. The national deputy Pazinjak conveys the word to the national deputy Kuzel. Please, National Deputy Kugel.
ParlaMint-UA_2013-09-20-m0.u152	Dear people of Ukraine! Dear colleagues! Let me read and introduce you to the Head of Mission of the European Parliament, Mr. Cox and Mr. Kwasniewski, about the political repression in Ukraine. "For three years, political repression against the political opponents of the current authoritarian regime has been on the rise in Ukraine. We would like to express our gratitude to you that your Mission has been working loyally for more than a year to end this shameful phenomenon in an independent Ukraine. You have achieved great success — thanks to your work, Yuri Lucenko, Valérie Vashchenko is already at large, and the integration of Ukraine has given you a chance. But, at the same time, it is obvious that the repressions in Ukraine continue to be complete, despite the threat of the signing of the Treaty on European Integration, the association of Ukraine. Everyone knows that Timoshenko is still in prison and is being tried against. We ask you to intervene in the settlement process with Yulia defender Timoshenko Sergey Vlasenko. It's a settlement, because otherwise it's impossible to call these actions of power. It all began with the failure of Sergey Vlasenko to find compromise in his previous governmental and legal activities. He has neither business nor private accounts. Then a number of absurd criminal cases were violated against him, severely interfering with his personal life. He was deliberately closed off from abroad so that he would not listen to the case of Julia Timoshenko in the European Court of Human Rights and the Paris session. This was the only case in Ukraine where a member of the PARJE was not forcibly released from the country for a session. On many occasions he was attacked by force, and the extreme network of lawlessness was achieved when, with the application of the dependent judicial system of Yulia’s protector, Timoshenko Sergey Vlasenka was anticonstitutionally deprived of the status of the Ukrainian national deputy. Today, the political dispute with Sergey Vlastenk gained new power, again through a dependent court, he was charged with fantastic, nonexistent debts to his former wife, whom he divorced five years ago and with whom he was approved by a court and signed a peace agreement with his wife. Viktor Yanukovic's goal is to avenge Yulia's protector, Timoshenko, not only by taking all his property, but also by throwing him behind bars, not allowing him to defend Yulia Timoshenko. These are political solutions, and this is obvious to everyone. We appeal to you, the distinguished leaders of the Mission, to intervene immediately in this critical situation, to stop the destruction of Yulia’s authoritarian system, Timosheno, Sergey Vlasenka, and to reflect in your objective report on the results of the work.
ParlaMint-UA_2013-09-20-m0.u153	Thank you. You still can't hear it, unfortunately, too bad. Please, let me finish, please.
ParlaMint-UA_2013-09-20-m0.u154	".. in your objective report on the work of the Mission in Ukraine, this unprecedented dispute with the supporter of the politically imprisoned Yulia Timoshenko. With respect, the Fatherland faction. Thank you.
ParlaMint-UA_2013-09-20-m0.u155	Thank you. The People’s Deputy Orotyuk is invited to attend. The orphan gives the word to the national deputy Vitva, please.
ParlaMint-UA_2013-09-20-m0.u156	Deputies! I'd like to talk now about the inaction of our law enforcement agencies, which instead of defending the economic rights of human beings, the rights of Ukrainians, they are now engaged in Lenin's monuments, the terror against the MPs from Freedom. At the same time, in Volodymyr-Wolinski, Volin, underground trade in alcohol and tobacco flourishes for six months. To understand the extent of trade, it is when buses are loaded, trucks are loaded and all smuggling is sent to the Republic of Poland. There's a whole conveyor of illegal liquor and cigarettes when the price on those wholesale bases is 17-18 bracelets, cigarettes of unknown or all known brands, made underground at 4.50. All of this is happening next to CAT, next to the militia raid. Our deputies in Volodymyr Wallinsky at the session raised questions about the illegal trade in wholesale cigarettes and smuggling into the Republic of Poland. Speaking up, the police chief says I don't have the equipment to check if it's faked or not. And what happens without excise stamps is illegal. It's unloading, nobody's interested. This story was presented by one of the leading Ukrainian channels. Then there was a little reaction, a day or two trade didn't flourish, and now again there's a massive smuggling of cigarettes and vodka into the Republic of Poland. At a time when the minister of "minsdhu" says that we don't have a budget, that we don't have money for roads, then there's a huge trade going on. And the main question is, who's cracking? So you can definitely say, or someone is "in the subject," or someone is in the destiny, because otherwise it can't take that long. Instead of putting an end to this illegal trade, the militia is dealing with cigarette-trafficking money, taking out the freebies who take off the communist freaks rather than stop the illegal smuggling. So I'm interested in one thing, I'm asking you to think of it as a parliamentary question: who's doing it and who's "breaking" the illegal liquor business on Volina? Thank you.
ParlaMint-UA_2013-09-20-m0.u157	Thank you. People’s MP Kisse gives his word to the national deputy Zurabski. Please, National Deputy Zharavsky.
ParlaMint-UA_2013-09-20-m0.u158	Dear Lord Chairman, dear colleagues! There will be no politics in my speech, there will be a specific problem in my speech and the ability to solve it. Former military town No. 6 of Makariov-1 is joined by the Zitomir district. This is part of my constituency. At present, a number of painful problems have not been solved. First, the work on gasification and individual heating of the City Housing Fund, based on the budget of the Ministry of Defence, has been suspended, unfortunately. In need of 26 million dollars, this authority actually funded 1 million 811 thousand dollars. The second is the financing and conduct of the underwater pipeline "White Krinica-Krimok" did not begin at all. Third, the building of the City School of Public Education requires serious capital repairs. Fourth: The joint directive of the Ministry of Defence of Ukraine and the General Staff of the Armed Forces of Ukraine decided to disband the only medical facility located in the City Village Council. The territorial community is very concerned that more than three thousand Ukrainian citizens, many of whom are children, will be left without medical care, including residents of villages and villages nearby. I hope, I very much hope, and I believe, that the Ministry of Defence of Ukraine, personally the Minister of Defence of Ukraine -- the distinguished Paul Valentinovich Lebedev will hear my voters and hear me -- the National MP -- and help solve these problems. Please consider my statement to be a parliamentary request to the Honourable Minister of Defence, Paul Valentinovich Lebedev. Thank you.
ParlaMint-UA_2013-09-20-m0.u159	Thank you. People’s deputy Stojko is invited to attend.
ParlaMint-UA_2013-09-20-m0.u160	Thank you. Dear Lord, the chairman, the honourable and dear Ukrainians! Ivan Stojko, party "For Ukraine!"Faction of the Fatherland. For many years the public and management of the city of Krasnoarmijska, located in the Donetsk region, have implemented the idea of establishing the city’s central square, the area of Vasil Šibankov’s monument Taras Shevchenk. In 2006, the Red Army City Council decided to grant a memorial sign at the site of the site of the site of Vasil Šibankov, which was completed on March 9, 2006, it was expected that by the 200th anniversary of the birth of the Great Cobzar, all questions and a monument to Shevchenk would be resolved in the central square of the city. However, on the day of Taras Shevchenk's burial, on May 22, this year, the city council of Krasnoarmiya, in a new warehouse with the Communist faction initiative, decided, without any justification, to move the site of the monument to the Grand Cobzar from the central square to the green zone of Andruschenka's boulevard. In this regard, our colleagues from the Committee on Culture and Spirituality have made decisions and appealed to the City Council to accept their decision to transfer the building of the monument in error. And they also called on Kabmin and the Donetsk district administration to intervene in the situation and to ensure the construction of the Kobzar monument in the central square of the city by the 200th anniversary of the birth of the Great Cobzar. However, it follows from the response of Mr. Gabrielchenk, the city chief, that the petitions and decisions of the parliamentary committee were not wrong and were not even brought to the attention of the city council. Thus, despite the approaching Jubilee of Cobzar, a significant social resonance by local executive authorities has been removed from the solution to this very important and acute problem. In view of this, I ask the Cabinet of Ministers of Ukraine to intervene in this situation, to implement decisions that have been taken by the Supreme Council, our committee, and in particular the decree of the President of Ukraine to commemorate the Jubilee of the Great Cobzar. Please consider my statement as a request to Prime Minister Mikli Azarov of Ukraine regarding the situation in the city of Krasnoarmiy Donetské region with the establishment of a monument to the Great Cobzar. Thank you for your attention. Glory to Ukraine!
ParlaMint-UA_2013-09-20-m0.u161	Thank you. People’s deputies, Haydos, are invited to attend.
ParlaMint-UA_2013-09-20-m0.u162	Dear Chairman! Dear colleagues! Dear listeners! Istvan Haydos, faction of the Party of the Regions. The emergence of social economic reforms in our country, the rapid increase in the openness of its economy and the increase of competition in national and international markets have created conditions for the formation in Ukraine of a modern European civil society model, a competitive European economy. Therefore, today the main issue of the Euro-Integration process is the conclusion of an association agreement that will begin a qualitatively new phase in the relationship between Ukraine and the EU. Getting a political and economic association with the EU is not an end in itself or a politically motivated solution. The reform of the political system of Ukraine and the implementation of European norms and principles in political life are in line with the Constitution of Ukraine, and is supported by most citizens who approve of European integration. In this context, the recent decision of the Cabinet of Ministers on the approval of the Association Agreement with the EU is strategically correct. We have also contributed to the realization of Ukraine’s Euro-Integration Desires. Because it was the voting for such bills that brought Parliament together and allowed us to bring our legislation closer to EU norms and standards. At the same time, it seems unfounded to accuse the opposition press of allegedly breaking up in the Party of Regions in support of a policy aimed at European integration. This unity of faction is confirmed by a unanimous vote in favour of the so - called European laws. The faction supports Ukrainian President Viktor Yanukovic's consistent policy of signing the Association Agreement and free trade zones with the EU. In my opinion, Ukraine has never been so close to signing these important agreements. If that happens, and I am convinced that the signing of the summit will take place in November, it will certainly be the credit of the President and his team. I also consider it unnecessary to discuss the issue of choice between the European Union and the Customs Union. I believe that the EU association agreement is not directed against Ukraine's cooperation with Russia and the Customs Union. Because the strategic partnership with them is in Ukraine's national interest. Thank you.
ParlaMint-UA_2013-09-20-m0.u163	Thank you. Before you know it, I'd like to invite the people's MP Melnik. His word is given to him by the national deputy Mohnik. Please.
ParlaMint-UA_2013-09-20-m0.u164	Dear Chairman, distinguished national MPs! With great concern and disappointment, the miners of my native Volina accepted the news that the Ukrainian State Property Fund had approved a list of 42 coal companies that were to be prepared for privatisation in 2013. In the Volin region, in particular, the Novovolinska Mines, the Bužanska Mine and the No. 9 Mine of Novavolinska fall under privatization. This indicates that the reform of the coal sector, which has been under way for several years, has failed. Unwarranted privatization of income mines, the ones with the most projected coal reserves, will lead to a bold redistribution of capital into the energy market. Billionaires who buy mines will create vertically integrated companies with a view to further privatization of the utility sector. The diagram is simple and the calculation is farsighted. In view of the fact that Russia’s gas, despite the shameful Kharkiv Accords for Ukraine, has not become cheaper, everyone understands that Ukrainian TECs will move from gas to coal and tariffs will increase. So coal will be needed again in the future. Then whose hands will be mine and coal? In the hands of the state? No, in the hands of private business. We already have examples. A cynical scheme for the sale of mines for a new procedure for Ukraine for one bracelet to guarantee virtual investment in enterprise development is actually a donation of mines to the oligarchs at no cost. Yes, for the king of Moscow, the entourages of the village with its fortifications were donated. It is true that in Ukraine, along with the coming to power of the regions, slave colonial policies are being revived in relation to their own people. Now the oligarchs are trying to take over the dramas of Ukraine. Because privatization of mines means essentially privatization of the state. This is a direct and gross, unconscionable violation of article 13 of the Ukrainian Constitution. The All-Ukrainian "Freedom" union advocates the development of the coal industry as a priority industry, and it is not by any means a way of selling such important enterprises as mines. Sadly, though, the common people and the present authorities have different priorities. For example, during the closure of mines in small towns in France, special economic regimes were created: residents were exempt from taxes for three years so that they could create their own small business. But this isn't France, this is Ukrainian reality represented by corruption on every scale of power. So that's how the mines are built under the coal industry, the authorities are going to have a social explosion, the miners are going to go to the Kiev -- and by knocking out the helmets, the government of Azarov and its professionals, just like the miners did in 1993, when they arrived.
ParlaMint-UA_2013-09-20-m0.u165	Thank you. Thank you. The People's Deputy of the Kicks Faction is invited to the floor. Please.
ParlaMint-UA_2013-09-20-m0.u166	Honorable Chairman, Honorable Colleagues, Honorable Citizens of Ukraine! In recent weeks, we have had a very important task and a huge responsibility to sign the Association Agreement with the EU at the Eastern Partnership Summit in Vilnius. Today, a left - hand portion of the necessary bills has been voted together. These are the first steps on the great path that our citizens are now expecting from us. Our nation has finally had a real chance of finally getting closer to European society and the expectations of citizens to find a decent place in the European family have become real. That is why the Vitalia Klitschka faction, conscientiously following the instructions of its constituents, ensures effective voting under all European integration laws. At the same time, we will not allow ourselves to be caught, nor have we allowed ourselves to fall into these laws of lobbyist and openly corrupt norms that have nothing to do with the spirit of European values. But there are still a number of questions that have not yet been resolved and the answers that have to be given to Brussels. First of all, this refers to the practice of selective justice in general and Yulia Timoshenko in particular, corruption in the authorities and the rule of law, violations of citizens' rights and freedoms, administrative abuse, pressure on the media and journalists. Today, the government has repeatedly claimed its declarative success, but we all well understand that the declaration will not yield a percentage. The European Union is the highest standard of living in the world, not the declared protection of human and civil rights. Investment and innovation, the protection of intellectual property rights, respect for other members of the world’s society, the building of relations on the principles of equality, equality and tolerance. There is no doubt that Ukraine's path should be only to the European Union. The Vitalia Klicka party, with deep respect, is grateful to Ukraine's partners, who at the same time support our aims of European integration. Because we're not really seeing the integration of Ukraine right now, we're seeing the future of every citizen. Therefore, I hope that in the process of working on such strategic directions for our nation, all political forces will unite for the sake of the welfare and well - being of our country and our citizens. By the way, there is now an EU summit in Yalta, where particular attention is paid to Ukraine's EU integration prospects. At the summit there are European leaders who are interested in integrating our nation into the European community. Thank you for your attention.
ParlaMint-UA_2013-09-20-m0.u167	Thank you. The People’s Deputy Twin is invited to attend.
ParlaMint-UA_2013-09-20-m0.u168	Dear colleagues, honourable voters, I understand that given the situation here, well, my speech is more of a call to voters. But first, to your colleagues, and I'm asking you to understand that it's not some kind of education, but what we have to do with you. And, first of all, we need to stop the political games and insinuations on the political course of Ukraine. The choice is made. And the desire of individual politicians to go and talk about these issues only harms matters further. It's different. In proclaiming the European choice, we must look after the interests of the State and its people, and after examining all the advantages and possible difficulties, the leaders of society should bring all of this to the people. The European market is a big market. But we need not only to review more than 20,000 standards and rules, but also to start producing products in Ukraine according to Eurostandards, and only then will we be able to compete in these markets. Of course, we're going to have a transition period, but we had to work on it, which they say was yesterday. Many businesses in our country have long worked for world standards, but more work needs to be done in advance. We have to save already worked markets for domestic production, including in the member states of the Customs Union. This is particularly true of the Russian Federation — the same member of the World Trade Organization as Ukraine. And within these conditions, Ukraine has the right to cooperate freely without restrictions. Smart politics is the ability to work with everyone, protecting their own national interests. The efforts of individual politicians to see only one side of the process are political shortsightedness. Third. We have to reject the position of capacitance and not mislead people by talking about the immediate changes in wages, the quality of medical care, that's another thing, that's not going to happen with the touch of a wand. This requires making decisions, including decisions that are very unpopular in society. The improvement of living standards depends not only on the MPs and the leadership of the state but also on every citizen of Ukraine. Everyone understands that the Association is not a member of the EU. Our path to the EU as a full member.
ParlaMint-UA_2013-09-20-m0.u169	Thank you. Finish it, please. People's MP Ilik is invited to the floor, please.
ParlaMint-UA_2013-09-20-m0.u170	Dear colleagues, dear Ukrainians! Now, in Ukraine, a rather interesting and threatening process has begun, a process where the intellectualization of the nation has begun. I mean the so-called reform introduced today by the Ministry of Education and Science, headed by Mr. Tobacco, the specific direction of this so-called reform is the question of the destruction of Ukrainian universities. It looks like there's an economy of funds, some kind of economic utility, that there's a massive cut in the stakes for the professor's teaching of heights. It's known that the time pressure on the professor's classroom is on the average twice as high as in any country in Europe. And it is only natural that the extra stress on the teacher will make the Ukrainian University even more dependent on power: limited in its capacity, limited in development, in its actions. Ukrainian universities are now poor and power-dependent, corrupt precisely because of these two components, poverty and addiction. The attack on universities with reduction plans, which is not just up to 50,000 new unemployed in the country, is primarily a blow to those people who are shaping the cultural consciousness of society. The limitations of the university's space automatically mean expansion of the space and the space for criminality, because an effective education system, the intellectual elite of the nation, the high level of culture, ensures against the increase in vulgarity, the ingenuity, the illegality, and even banditry if you want. According to the 20th - century philosopher Carl Jaspers, the meaning of the university is that of openness. It is then that the university stimulates broader scientific research, shapes and educates worthy and free people, when the university itself is as free and open to the world as possible. Instead, we have powerful control, manual control and what to hide here, and manual mode, including rector management. And most of all. The de-intellectualization of Ukraine's role limit, the legal and economic impact on scientists, is a straight line to defeat Ukraine in global competition, especially with Russia. This is the transformation of it into a provincial state, from which scientific footage will begin to emerge even more massively. That is why the current task today is to protect universities, to fund them, and in this both political parties and educational environments, and the cultural intelligence of the whole country, must unite. Only an intellectual and free nation has the future that Ukraine so longs for.
ParlaMint-UA_2013-09-20-m0.u171	Thank you. The People’s Deputy Bukhovite is invited to the floor. Please give me your word.
ParlaMint-UA_2013-09-20-m0.u172	Zubczewski, the Communist faction. I'm going to speak in English on purpose because the Ukrainian language has been developed precisely by Soviet authorities and by Vladimir Ilchi Lenin. Dear colleagues, honourable voters, I have been approached as a national deputy of Ukraine by residents of the villages of Novopetrovka and Staropetrovka of the Berdjan district of Zaporozhye region for the protection of their rights. In their speeches, citizens refer to the violation of their rights to rule and use of land by officials of the Ministry of Defence and its subordinates for the support of the military prosecutor of the prison garrison. The conflict between citizens and officials has already reached such a level of tension that it can soon cause mass upheavals in the above - mentioned locations and have a great social resonance. Even in Soviet times, an A-4322 military range was removed about 3,000 hectares [3,000 ha] of land in the Russian Cologne, located in the village of Novopetrovka in the Berdjan region. During the years of independence, the land of the former cologne was scattered among the colporteurs, because of the pre-removed cologne land for the military field, the pies were only about four and a half acres [4.5 ha], while other rural areas of the Berdian region — from 8 to 15. During the ninety-two-thousand years, with the participation of officials of the Ministry of Defence of Ukraine, property was stolen from the military unit. Military property, power grids, and building materials were written down and stolen. According to official reports from the military prosecutor’s office and the military, 18 buildings have disappeared, and millions of dollars have been lost to the state. In 2005, part of it was eliminated. After its liquidation and release from the former site, residents of the village of Novopetrovka in the Berdjan district turned to the district administration for private property for the maintenance of a two - hectare [2 ha] private farm. In 2010, about 800 villagers were owned by the district administration. However, the military prosecutor of the Zaporozhye garrison, in the interests of the Ministry of Defence, was charged with the orders of the Berdian Paradise Administration and with appropriate lawsuits. On July 4, the Dnipropetrov Administrative Court of Appeal stood on the side of the citizens, revoking the illegal ruling of the Zaporozhye District Administration. However, as far as it is known, the prosecution intends to challenge the decision of the Dnipropetrov Court of Appeal in a cassational order. For citizens living in the villages of Novopetrovka and Staropetrovka in the Berdjan region, land owned for private farming is an important source of income. Disposal of citizens of these lands will result in a social explosion in the area. In the near future, protests are being prepared. In order to protect the property rights of citizens, I demand that the Cabinet of Ministers regulate the situation through the consolidation of the above-mentioned land areas by the inhabitants of the villages of Novopetrovka and Staropterovka of the Berdjan region of Zaporozhye. I have an appropriate request addressed to the Cabinet of Ministers. Thank you for your attention.
ParlaMint-UA_2013-09-20-m0.u173	Thank you. People's deputy Kurpil is invited to the floor.
ParlaMint-UA_2013-09-20-m0.u174	Stephen Kurpil, 124 constituency, Fatherland faction, Lviv. Dear chairman, distinguished national MPs, distinguished voters! I've been assigned by the National Journalists' Association to report our concerns regarding the non-declaration of subscriptions to periodical printed editions for 2014. Such a subscription would have begun on September 1. Unfortunately, it's still blocked. It's blocked because the state-owned firm "Krushposta" is going to raise the tariffs from the delivery of periodical printed editions by 45 percent. This unprecedented growth is absolutely nothing to be argued for, and it is causing, no doubt, a lack of acceptance and tremendous anxiety. It refers to millions of people who overpay printed media who love them, who read them from year to year. Since the year before the subscription company, the National Journalists Association has been at war with the firm Krašta, because these appetites for tariff increases arise periodically every year. Every year we win, at least not quite, but in part, this fight. This year, the decision to increase tariffs was made in a culinary way, there's a new management of Crucifixion, which has conducted absolutely no consultation with public organizations or editorial groups. Nor was this issue discussed at a meeting of the interministerial working group that exists with the President of Ukraine. You know, from year to year, the tariffs are increasing, and the quality of services is decreasing. We, of course, are for those who have hard work to pay more, but not by raising tariffs on printed media, because this leads to a drop in circulation, this leads to the cost of the press -- and as a result, the post offices are closing down, the jobs are shrinking, and the Krasnosts have a completely reverse effect on what they were hoping for. I ask you to consider this statement as a request to the Prime Minister of Ukraine to give him a mandate to "Staff" to immediately start a subscription for periodic printed editions, taking into account the proposals made by the National Journalists Association.
ParlaMint-UA_2013-09-20-m0.u175	Thank you. People’s MP Atroshenko is invited to attend. Please.
ParlaMint-UA_2013-09-20-m0.u176	Vladislav Atroshenko, 206 majority district, Chernigów city, Chernigiv region, and Ripkin region of Chernigiv region. Honourable Ukrainians, Mr. Chairman, honourable colleagues of the Ukrainian national deputies! I want to draw your attention to a problem that has become very important to millions of Ukrainian citizens living in rural areas. These are legal forms and registrations of real estate rights in rural areas. In practice, the inhabitants of villages and villages find it extremely difficult to register property rights for real estate, to form an inheritance, to donate, to buy and sell housing and land. Generally speaking, it's very difficult for two reasons: first, it's very difficult to get to the centre where these services are done, by age, in the state of health of people, it's hard to do it, too, especially in the situation that's sad, but it's in Ukraine: in very many of the population, there's basically no carrier, there's no transport. The second is the very high price of duty on these houses, in some villages where half of these houses are just free to move into, please. And the cost is estimated by keeping these houses holding the hold at the cost of building such a new house. So my bill proposes the following thing, and I am now addressing all the representatives of all the political forces present in the room. Having carefully studied and worked on this issue, the only possible way, because so many of the bills today are in the hall, they are presented by the people's deputies, the only possible way is to bring these services closer to the peasant, that is to do so, by a schedule that would determine the government, depending on the settlement of the village councilman, is to come to the village council for reception. This is, maybe, twice every three months, depending on the population, three experts are state notaries, registrars and cadastre registrators. In determining the size of government duties, it is proposed in my bill in rural areas that the rate of government duty should be reduced twice, i.e. from a percentage to a half percent, and that in populated areas that are more than 20 kilometers away from the district centres and from the capital, the rate should be reduced by 10 times, i.e. from a percentage to 0.1 percent. Practically.
ParlaMint-UA_2013-09-20-m0.u177	Thank you. I'm sorry, but there's almost no time, the last speaker. People’s MP Mikhailenko is invited to attend. Last speaker, and we're done. Thank you.
ParlaMint-UA_2013-09-20-m0.u178	Thank you. The faction of the Communist Party of Ukraine, Olga Mikhailenko, Hersonian. Dear Chairman, national MPs, citizens of Ukraine! Hersonians continue to be robbed by those in power, doing so without remorse, ignoring their conscience and moral principles. At first, businesses, factories, and factories were taken away from the people, usurping power, and using full impunity, taking on the whims of the nations that under the Constitution belong to the entire people of Ukraine. It is only by gaining national wealth, such as sand in the Turupin region, that, of course, the people are close to power. The Oleja Žuravac community firm, which is run by a relative of today's Authorized Cabinet of Ministers in the case of disabled people, is insolvently robbing people, in the form of building fire-fighting targets without any permission, by extracting and selling sand, and large revenues are not going to the budgets of the districts or the area, only one known family is profiting. Experts estimate that 575,000 tons of sand was stolen in 2008 - 2012, and 11.5 million dollars were spent. Count the amount of good that could be done at this cost! How many schools and kindergartens could be repaired, hospitals, medicines, and gas! So what kind of authority is it that doesn't just notice the illegal activity of specific officials and specific businesses, but goes on and on, officially allowing sand to be mined in a national order? It's as if in Hersonsky's leadership, the caliphs for an hour, who live by the principle of "after us is a flood." I want to remind you that the forests in Hersonland were being landed in Soviet power, and today, barbaricly, they're being destroyed by oligarchic power. Why, then, do not the leaders of Kostjak and Pelich hear environmentalists, scientists, public figures who are alarmed?Oh, my God! We have no right to leave our children and grandchildren behind. We are obliged to resist the unbalanced actions of the Herson District Council, which has legitimized the illegal activity of the Ságuezka enterprise, allowing the lease of 43.68 hectares of the most valuable forest land in the village of Saga in the region of Hersonian. The Ukrainian company supports the public of the Herson region, which has taken a firm stand against the fraudulent actions of the Herson District Council management and requires the Herson District Council deputies to lift the disgraceful decision that allows the forest to be cut down.
ParlaMint-UA_2013-09-20-m0.u179	Thank you, distinguished national MPs. Ladies and gentlemen, this morning's plenary session is closed. We'll be waiting for you in accordance with the October 8 calendar plan. See you soon! Thank you. Good-bye!
