ParlaMint-UA_2013-05-15-m0.u1	Good morning, distinguished national MPs! Visitors and guests of the Supreme Council! People's deputies, please prepare for registration. Turn on the "Race" system. [[10:05:34]] There were 388 national deputies registered in the hall. The morning session of the Supreme Council of Ukraine is open. Today is the birthday of the National Deputies – Heratchenko Irina Volodymyrovna was born, Jiga Mikola Vasilovich and Struk Vladimir Alexiyovich. Let's celebrate everyone's birthday and wish them success and good. [[Applause]] Please sit down. Dear National Deputies! In accordance with Rule 25 of the Rules, we have 30 minutes Wednesday for the national MPs to make proposals, announcements, statements, messages. Therefore, I would like to ask the national deputies to sign up for the performance. Please, the Vitalia Cliché faction is Mathios. Microphone.
ParlaMint-UA_2013-05-15-m0.u2	Please pass the word to Oksani Prodan.
ParlaMint-UA_2013-05-15-m0.u3	Please.
ParlaMint-UA_2013-05-15-m0.u4	Good afternoon, Reverend Vladimir Vasilovich, distinguished colleagues! I would like to point out to all of us that the main task of this Supreme Council in 2013 is to ensure the signing of an agreement with the European Union. For the impact faction, it's one of the main tasks of this year. And what do we do for it? The goal of Vitalia Klitka's strike faction in Parliament is to create an economy of equal opportunities in Ukraine, to create conditions for people to have legal jobs and to have decent pay and a decent standard of living in Ukraine. That's why we've already introduced a block of bills that we're providing people with the opportunity to work, make money, and rest, and treat themselves in Ukraine. Yeah, we put in a bill that doubles the wager of the only social contribution. It'll allow people to work legally, it'll create thousands, hundreds of thousands of legal jobs, and it'll give people the opportunity to get social protection from a state that only promises them today, but doesn't. We have introduced a bill that provides for a distinction between what is being done today by hundreds, dozens, and sometimes thousands of people throughout their lives. We predict that it will be enough for a person to file a pension application, and everything else for that person, to collect documents and confirm the right to retire will be done by the state. We predict that in order to make a passport, get a passport, or for the first time, or for the first time, or for a foreign citizen of Ukraine, only one will be enough -- to write an application to the Ministry of Internal Affairs and get this passport without any other help. Because the State should serve its citizens, not as it is today. Vitalia Klitschka Faction also introduced a bill to which we foresee that all taxpayers who have paid their taxes in full should not pay fines for reports that are tax-based today just to get fines. We say that responsibility must be fair in the country, and this applies to taxpayers alike. We introduced a bill of transparency for government purchases when officials are unable to steal millions and billions of dollars from Ukrainian citizens. We put an offshore project in place so that Ukrainian money could stay with the Ukrainians. The same is true of farming, and so is the case with assessors. But the question is that today authorities are adopting laws that don't allow businesses to develop and even kill existing businesses. This applies to cashiers. Today, the Ministry of Income and Congregations refuses to lower the modem board on cashiers, although today 20 percent of the income tax payers have gone dark since the beginning of the year. In Mikolai, only 300 cashiers are registered to the entire city with modems. That's why I'm talking.
ParlaMint-UA_2013-05-15-m0.u5	Let me finish.
ParlaMint-UA_2013-05-15-m0.u6	To all of you. Let's go to European integration together and adopt real laws, those that will really make Ukraine an effective and European country. And I'm asking you to support the amendments that will be considered regarding the change in modems on cash machines in villages and villages where people don't have the Internet. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-UA_2013-05-15-m0.u7	The Freedom Union. Melnik conveys the word of Illenko to the national deputy
ParlaMint-UA_2013-05-15-m0.u8	Andrew Illenko, faction of the All-Ukrainian Freedom Union. Dear colleagues, I would like to tell you about the unprecedented situations that have arisen in recent days throughout Ukraine, related to the increase of repression against "Freedom" and against the opposition in general. Following the events of the 9th in Ternopolis, a wave of repression broke out when national MPs were beaten by militia officers. Yesterday, they were arrested and arrested for 5 days by four people -- freedom activists, who are now in prison. Today there was a campaign, not even an action, but a citizen's admission, which is literally now in the district, under district police in Ternopol and Berkut brutally attacked the MPs and wouldn't let them take the citizens there. According to the head of the district government of Ternopil district of Hobtian, the court for two months forbade all the shares in Ternopol. Imagine this dream where we're going to jump into what dictatorship. And actually, what I'd like to say is more. The situation in Kiev began recently, when certain, unestablished people, but we suspect who it is, and it's probably people associated with today's regime, began to set up such safari for freedom activists in Kiev. Literally yesterday, there was a brutal attack on Vladimir Karassa, a cyanide who was attacked near his house by the three castes, beaten, knocked out his teeth, gave him a concussion, chopped his face off. And they did it because he's Eugene Karasi's own brother, an activist freeman, a well-known street activist, and my assistant consultant. Tracked, beaten directly under the driveway. The same thing happened to Eugene Mack, an activist and fan of Kiev's Dinamo, who was attacked right on the street and hit him with a caste in the back of his head, he lost consciousness. Actually, this is happening today in Kiev. And actually, it happens, I'm sure of the police cover-up. Because they know the databases, they know where these people live, they listen to the phones. Prior to that month, hundreds of people were summoned to investigate absurd matters. Now these people, who have been called to questioning, are being investigated and thus tried to dispose of them. But I'm sure we can't be intimidated. It's you, I see, in the '90s, somewhere in the same place. And you don't intimidate us, and you don't intimidate our young people by your gangs. We are addressing the Attorney General, and the Minister of Internal Affairs is urgently required to deal with this situation. Today the President will be here, we'll talk to him about it and you won't shut our mouth, we'll scream from the place, and we'll pay attention to this mess and stop this nightmare that you're making. Because now you're trying to start a civil confrontation in Ukraine. But you won't scare us or break us because it's the truth behind us, it's the money behind you. Glory to Ukraine!
ParlaMint-UA_2013-05-15-m0.u9	The faction of the Company of Ukraine, Biyovka, conveys the word to the People's Deputy Levchenko.
ParlaMint-UA_2013-05-15-m0.u10	Olga Levchenko, Company of Ukraine, city of Kiev. Ladies and gentlemen, I would like to express the views of the Kievers, who have addressed me as a national MP on medical reform in the capital. In Kiev, there were two pilot areas: Dneprovsky and Darnicki. As the reformers have assured, the implementation of the proposed reform model will create a clear system of patient orientations and ensure interaction between different levels of health care. The network of health facilities that provide for the needs of the population will be fully maintained. In fact, we have another improvement. No one has seen a public analysis of the results of the pilot project today. No one talks about shortcomings and, moreover, does not correct them. Nevertheless, the second phase of medical reform is under way. By its decisions of 17 April, Kiev extended medical reform to all areas of the capital. This decision was not intended to block the capital deputies from Fatherland and Strike. As it turns out, there is no one to defend available free medicine in Kiev. All capital medicine will now move to commercial rails at an accelerated rate, with medical care becoming difficult for ordinary Kievers. An outpatient system is like setting up telephone booths without phones. It's like there's a lot of outpatients, and for additional diagnostics, you have to go around the city, do two and three transplants. What kind of sick person can do that?Oh, my God! What if it's a vet? In fact, reform, or as it is now called optimisation, is actually destroying clinics and children and adults. Doctors are alarmed — a reduction in the number of doctors, especially the specialized. The burden on family doctors will grow to the point that they will not be able to provide quality assistance objectively. I met with the inhabitants of the Shevchenkov district of the capital. People with tears in their eyes said they couldn't ride the streets. We already have an example of the death of a man without medical care in the center of Kiev. On whose conscience will I be the life and health of the capital’s inhabitants? What are your respected policies, health wishes and long years that you have uttered literally a week ago in honor of Victory Day? It is surprising and outraged at the urgency in which the second phase of the reform is being decided. It takes several years, not months, to train a family doctor who is focused on it. The reason lies on the surface, and the main objective of medical reform in Ukraine is to minimise the cost of public medicine. Ms. Minister of Health, criticizing the Communists' demands for the abolition of medical reform, recently said quite inappropriately: “One word in the language of mollusk and the other word in the plough”. Only this plough, which you, Madam Minister, do you think you're pulling, feeds directly to the living. The company continues to insist.
ParlaMint-UA_2013-05-15-m0.u11	Let me finish. People's deputy Kugel, speaking for Moscal instead of Kugel. Please.
ParlaMint-UA_2013-05-15-m0.u12	Dear Ukrainians! Dear fellow national MPs! In the last three years, the economic, social, and political situation in Ukraine has become a threat to the lives of citizens. The poverty of the population, the lack of democratic processes, the corruption of the authorities, the courts, and the law enforcement agencies led to the rise of protest sentiments. Today, the country is at the brink of social, financial, economic and political chaos. Despite the opposition forces that initiated the campaign, "Get up, Ukraine!" Not once did they violate the requirements of the current Ukrainian legislation and conduct peaceful actions, today under the leadership of the Heads of the Council of National Security and Defence of the Clovis, large-scale measures are being taken to prevent this action from taking place. I'm going to notice that these outpourings by the authorities in the district centers -- these are flowers compared to what is happening in Kiev today, as the authorities are preparing for an annotated 18 May rally in the European square -- can only provoke resentment in normal people and understand how much power today fears their own people so that, God forbid, the march of opposition does not take place in the direction of the President's Administration on the street of Gruszewski, they tear down asphalt cover, they gather all the technology from all the regions of Ukraine, where there are no roads at all, while the government complains about the lack of funds for its repair. Attacks are systematically carried out against opposition representatives who distribute advertising products in various places in Kiev. At the rally venues, at the European Square and near the KIMS, she planned various competitions, including involving children, racing, legalizing marijuana, and a variety of gay parades. The district authorities were instructed to bring several thousand civil servants and paid workers to Kiev. Ladies and gentlemen, those who organize antifascist rallies have been shot by fascists and homosexuals. So I ask the anti-fascist rally to bring in a social group that advocates legalization of their rights. [[Applause]] Vote in favour.
ParlaMint-UA_2013-05-15-m0.u13	The faction of the Party of the Regions, Bezbach. Have a seat, Hennaday Hennadiovich, thank you. It's Christmas Eve. [[10:21:59]] Respectable Ukrainian people, friends and colleagues! On 9 May, hundreds of thousands of Ukrainians celebrated the Day of the Great Victory of our people over Fascism and gave tribute to the memory of the fallen. And only a small vicious pile of brown ice creams in Ternopolis and Lviv, overcrowded with Nazi bile, hating the Great Victory, tried to intimidate, to break this popular will. How could we have imagined that a country where eight million people would give their lives for the Great Victory would today be beaten by nine - year - old veterans? Ukrainian neo-Naziism is a bottled gin issued by the previous authority, which, instead of addressing economic development, destroyed the economy and forged history. How imprecisely these actions were characterized by the former power of the Yushchenk Erich Maria Remark: "The national rebirth that they screamed like a stone when you lift it from the ground from under it by the bastards. They use loud words to hide their abominations with you. In the past five years alone, the United Nations, the European Parliament, has condemned neo-Naziism, collaborators and fascist aiders. Today, however, neo-Nazis, including those in this Parliamentary Hall, are dead because they have long buried their honour and conscience. But these dead are followed by zombies with no opinions of their own, unable to see the truth in their own eyes, and you are walking in the flesh of the smoke. There is now a personal choice for everyone — with whom you, with the winners of fascism, who have preserved peace and human values, or with the sworn supporters of fascism, who have done all they can to ensure that Victory Day does not come. Therefore, on behalf of the people of all good will, in memory of the Great Victory and heroes of our people, I say to them face to face: Nazism will not pass away! And the first step in this direction has already been taken, the wave of anti-fascist rallies and demonstrations in Ukraine, hundreds of thousands of people who hate the neo-Nazis who are here, taking care of their future, Ukraine's future, their children. Dear friends! A great nation rises up, rises up, rises to an important battle against neo-Nazi filth, with a brown plague. I am convinced that we will go to Europe without neo-Nazi aiders and fascists, for whom human-dominated philosophy is their inner nature. Praise be to the victorious people of the Great Homeland War! Fascism won't work! You've built yourself a cross a long time ago!
ParlaMint-UA_2013-05-15-m0.u14	The Fatherland faction, National Deputy Petrenko. Passes the word "Knyazevitch".
ParlaMint-UA_2013-05-15-m0.u15	Dear colleagues, perhaps today, having opened the agenda, you have seen that the first question proposed for consideration of the session hall is the making of an oath by the judges of the Constitutional Court. Those appointments that recently took place on the side of the Presidential Branch, on the side of the council of judges, frankly, shocked many in the legal community, especially legal science. On the other hand, it is suggested that judges of the Constitutional Court should be appointed to the positions of judges of the Constitutional Court of people who have never had a right to constitutional law. These are the judges who dealt with matters of general jurisdiction. And finally, with every appointment new, we make any mention of constitutionalists in the Constitutional Court. Dear colleagues, that the legal nature of constitutional judges in general, constitutional tribunals, constitutional councils, which are in the continental system of law, is that it is where constitutional scientists work. Because that's why we have these decisions from constitutional courts because they're made by non-experts. People have never done that job, so they easily accept the work they are offered from other offices. Dear colleagues, I assure you this will lead to an even worse situation in the Constitutional Court than we have now! Look at the decisions they make! Yesterday we discussed around one another, today, when we discuss elections, we will discuss their approvals. Although this practice is new to Ukraine. You look at the composition of the Constitutional Court of First Instance: everyone, without exception, 18 judges were professional constitutionalists, virtually all doctors of science, recognized professionals in the field of law, constitutionalists in Ukraine, leading scientists in fact in the territories of Eastern Europe. What have we led to now? We don't even know the names of 90 percent of the judges of the Constitutional Court, not to mention what they did in previous years, we only know their birthplace is Donetsk or Donetsk. Even better, if these judges were involved in some part of the state’s biography. It can't be! We will either distort the concept of constitutional jurisdiction in Ukraine at all, or we must finally end this constitutional chaos. I'm not saying that there's actually no representative of the opposition in the Constitutional Court. There is no such place in the world that, at least in the parliamentary component, opposition could not affect the appointment of constitutional judges. So I warn you of this kind of assignment and I insist that the judges of the Constitutional Court should be professionals who have recognized trust and respect in the legal environment. Otherwise, we are actually predestining the death of constitutional jurisdiction in Ukraine, and this is done by the hands of those who deliberately do it. Parliament cannot allow that. Thank you.
ParlaMint-UA_2013-05-15-m0.u16	The faction of the All-Ukrainian "Freedom" Osuhovski. The word Pharion.
ParlaMint-UA_2013-05-15-m0.u17	Presidium! Ladies and gentlemen! So how did it happen that we were welcome to such a land, to the absolute and complete collapse of the state? I'm going to do a lot of punctuality in those three minutes to really think about the basic principles of our collapse. And the basic principles of our collapse are not at all in the economic plane, not even in the legislative plane, but in the other plane, in fact, the one we've been leaving at all our plenary sessions for the rest of our lives. I mean the decisions of our Committee on Spirituality and Culture. So I have a strong belief that it is the foundation of disaster. The foundation of our nation's collapse lies uniquely in the plane of the humanities. Why? Because if we don't decolonize three. Four basic principles, we can't move forward. Go ahead, of course, to yourself. So the first major challenge to get out of this pit of state collapse is to colonize historical consciousness. What does that mean? This is a priority not only for politicians and lawyers but also for historians. To work out such socially needed literature to free us from myths and stereotypes of a terrible Soviet 70-year-old age. This implies: (a) an assessment of the historical facts, exclusively of the state's position, not through foreign imperial glasses or through our own underageness and ignorance of our own; (b) the maximum openness of our archives to our historians; and the generation of great historians we raised in those 20 years of our difficult journey; now our archives are guarded by a communist order; (c) a fundamental and consistent change in the educational paradigm; that is, that we have actively started to do with you in the mid-1990s and worked on brilliant textbooks from the history of Ukraine that undo the fear of the Ukrainian national idea of the Minister of Education of the Ukrainofob Tobacco. The other one. Decolonization of the language consciousness. Since our language is our homeland, our state, our dignity is human and national: (a) the only language for a single constituency and independent state; (b) the fate of the Occupants in our territories on their own future ethnic shores, and we are pressing their hand; (c) the question of the state status of the language in the axiomatic sphere is not proved; this is confirmed; and we have registered with Jurk Michalchina a brilliant bill that stands on the watch of the status of the Ukrainian state language. Third. Decolonization of the information space through which the most important principles. The principle (a) of public reporting of its owners. ( b) The creation of social television, which depends on the viewer, not on the captive oligarch, because the oligarchs are enslaved to us.
ParlaMint-UA_2013-05-15-m0.u18	Thank you. Have a seat, please. The faction of the Company of Ukraine Zubczewski.
ParlaMint-UA_2013-05-15-m0.u19	Dear colleagues! Dear voters! The people of Ukraine once again celebrated the most holy, great celebration of the Day of Victory. This celebration is an integral part of the history of the people, the history of every family living in Ukraine and the former republics of the Soviet Union. [[B in m in s a l in]] The victory over mankind's most terrible enemy, fascism, was achieved through the highest patriotism and heroism of citizens of the multinational USSR. At a time when Western European countries have literally completely fallen under the trap of Hitlerians and have redeemed not only their territory but also their economic potential, the Soviet Union has alone opposed the huge German army car and its allies. During inhuman and unimaginable efforts, the Soviet people were able to break the back of fascism and free not only their territory, but also European countries from the occupation. Humiliated and insulted by Hitler, Europe still cannot forget and accept the idea that its liberator is Stalin's first socialist State in the world. That is why, so far, individual European structures are attacking everything that is related to the great Soviet era. It is absolutely unacceptable that in Ukraine, the most affected by Hitler's occupation, neo-Naziism is increasing from year to year. The decision of a number of areas in Western Ukraine, which, in violation of the Constitution and the laws, abolished the State holiday of 9 May, is still to be assessed, and this decision is in violation of the opinion of the inhabitants of Western Ukraine. The public opinion poll confirms this: 82 per cent of the nationals of the country consider 9 May to be a great holiday, and only 3 per cent of them completely ignore it. Remember, you trying to rewrite history and make a Soviet soldier an occupier, only 3 percent. You are an absolute minority, and this minority will be made up of you for the rest of your days. On behalf of the Company, we demand the immediate dissolution of all local councils that cancelled the Day of Victory, have left the central authorities, have failed to recognize or comply with the Constitution and laws of Ukraine. I represent the Zaporozhye region, where more than 50,000 residents of the city have come out to central 9 May only in the district center. This is a clear reflection of how citizens of the country are referring to this holiday. This joy is absolutely consistent with the cinematics of May 9, 1945, not only in the USSR but also in Europe. On that day, the whole world was cheering. This day has become a tragedy for only one of the fascists and their servants. Today, not to observe or celebrate 9 May means to promote ethnic cleansing, the destruction of entire peoples, and to promote the atrocities of the fascists. In this regard, the Company and all the healthy forces of our society will not allow this. How can the promotion of UN-OPA collaborators not be allowed? I quote Vasil Simonenko's words: "Then people called you dogs because you licked the Germans' desks, shouted "Heil" with hoarse basses and "She's not dead yet." They were screaming loudly. Where you went, there was a void and a ruin, and the corpses were not placed in the pits, and the blood of the "daughter of Ukraine" was spitting in your face and your masters. You'd have drunk it already, god, you'd have sold us all over the earth if you had.
ParlaMint-UA_2013-05-15-m0.u20	Thank you. Have a seat. It's a faction of the Ukrainian Company. Here's to the word "Boys." He's giving the word to the People's Deputy Mikhailenko.
ParlaMint-UA_2013-05-15-m0.u21	Olga Mikhailenko, faction of the Communist Party of Ukraine, Hersonian. Honourable Head, distinguished colleagues, voters, the public of Herson, and the area are outraged by the immoral and unlawful actions of the Hersonian city authorities to rename the street of Redwater, named after the heroes of the Great Homeland War, who died in the defense of the city of Herson from the fascist invaders. Before that, there was a series of changes in street names, as well as the use of physical force against me, against the national deputy of the five callings of Samuel and my assistants. In disregard of the Council's regulations, acting as a city head of the Coast practically forced deputies to vote in favour of changing the name of the street, thereby offending and humiliating the greatness of the liberators. Members of the Herson City Council, mainly local businessmen and state officials, depending on the temporary leadership of the city, for the sake of political ambitions have surrendered their conscience, the day before the holy one for all the people of Herson and Ukraine of Victory Day by adhering to such a presumptuous and cynical decision. Voting for him, MPs from the party of power showed their true faces in relation to the feat of Soviet soldiers during the Great War and the Great Victory itself. I appeal to President Yanukovic, Prime Minister Azarov to give a proper assessment of the actions of the head of the Herson government of Kostjak and the head of the Pelech district council, because it was out of their silent agreement that there was an act on the memory of war heroes. We demand the immediate appointment of the elections of the Herson City Head, today an active national MP, the former head usurped power and virtually rules the city illegally. We ask our colleagues from the Party of Regions to identify with their ideologies. Because it feels like you're supporting both Freedom and the bandits. Please consider my statement as a question of parliament. Thank you.
ParlaMint-UA_2013-05-15-m0.u22	Thank you. Ladies and gentlemen, time for speeches is up. Then we turn to the question of making an oath by the judges of the Constitutional Court of Ukraine.
ParlaMint-UA_2013-05-15-m0.u23	Ladies and gentlemen, please sit down and we'll work. President Viktor Fedorovich Janukovic of Ukraine attended the plenary session of the Supreme Council of Ukraine. [[Applause]] Please sit down. Dear National Deputies! The meeting of the Supreme Council of Ukraine is attended by: Prime Minister of Ukraine Mikola Janović Azarov, Head of the Constitutional Court of Ukraine Anatoly Sergiyovich Golovin, Acting Head of the Supreme Court of Ukraine Jaroslav Mihajlovich Romanyuk. [[(Applause) (Noise in the hall)]] Honorary colleagues, in accordance with article 106, 148 of the Ukrainian Constitution, the President of Ukraine on 14 May this year appointed by decree a judge of the Constitutional Court of Ukraine, Mr. On February 22, 2013, the eleventh consecutive Congress of Judges of Ukraine, in accordance with article 148 of the Constitution of Ukraine, appointed the judge of the Constitutional Court of Ukraine, Litvinov Alexander Mikolayovich. According to article 217 of the Ukrainian Act on the Rules of Procedure of the Supreme Council of Ukraine and article 17 of the Ukrainian Act on the Constitutional Court of Ukraine, the judge of the Constitutional Court of Ukraine, on taking office, shall make an oath at the meeting of the Supreme Council of Ukraine. To make an oath to the rostrum, please turn on the microphone of the rostrum.
ParlaMint-UA_2013-05-15-m0.u24	I, Mr. Tupicki Alexander Mikolaiovich, solemnly and conscientiously swear to the high duties of the judge of the Constitutional Court of Ukraine, to ensure the rule of the Constitution of Ukraine, to protect the constitutional order of the state, the constitutional rights and freedoms of man and citizen. Thank you.
ParlaMint-UA_2013-05-15-m0.u25	Have a seat. Judge of the Constitutional Court of Ukraine Litvinov Alexander Mikolayovich is invited to the rostrum.
ParlaMint-UA_2013-05-15-m0.u26	I, Litwina Alexander Mikolaiovich, solemnly and conscientiously swear to perform my duties, the high duties of the judge of the Constitutional Court of Ukraine to ensure the rule of the Constitution of Ukraine, the protection of the constitutional order of the state, the constitutional rights and freedoms of man and citizen.
ParlaMint-UA_2013-05-15-m0.u27	Let us welcome the judges of the Constitutional Court in office. [[Applause]] Dear colleagues, let us thank the President of Ukraine, the Prime Minister, the Head of the Constitutional Court and the Acting Head of the Supreme Court of Ukraine for their participation in our session. Thank you.
ParlaMint-UA_2013-05-15-m0.u28	Dear colleagues, the list of issues proposed for discussion and decision-making today are. Let us go to their consideration. We're talking about ratification. A draft Act on Ukraine’s integration into the Convention on the Protection of Children and Cooperation in Inter-State Adoption, registration number 0014, is being introduced. I'm making a proposal for a reduced procedure. Please vote. [[10:45:14]] For-173 I'm sorry. I'm sorry. I'm sorry. Chechtev, please.
ParlaMint-UA_2013-05-15-m0.u29	Dear Igor Grigoryevich, distinguished colleagues! We are considering a very serious document today. The MPs have a mixed assessment of what we are about to consider. And there's a fear that there won't be any votes, we can just crash this document. There is therefore a request from several factions: to postpone consideration of the bill so as not to “burn” it in order to hold further consultations and then to obtain a positive vote in the Chamber. Please postpone consideration of this bill for a later period. Thank you.
ParlaMint-UA_2013-05-15-m0.u30	Dear colleagues, in accordance with the Rules, we need to take this decision together then in order to determine the hall. If it supports, I think that, really, this convention is very important, and it would be good if we supported today's transfer of consideration of this issue. I'm betting on the proposal of the Chechtov People's Deputy for the transfer of the bill. Please vote. [[10:46:49]] For 224 Thank you. The decision is not taken. The rapporteur is invited to represent the President of Ukraine at the Supreme Council of Ukraine, Miroshnichenko Yuri Romanović.
ParlaMint-UA_2013-05-15-m0.u31	Thank you, thank you, Igor Grigorovich. Honorary voters, honourable colleagues, you would like to see a draft law on Ukraine’s accession to the Convention on the Protection of Children and Cooperation in Interstate Adoption (registration No. 0014). The Convention on the Protection of Children and Cooperation in Interstate Adoption is an international treaty that establishes the only rules for inter-State adoption that are successfully implemented in 89 countries around the world. Its main goal is to create a system of cooperation that will prevent kidnapping. Sell children or trade them. It should be noted that Ukraine is pursuing a consistent policy in the area of adoption aimed at developing and supporting national adoption. Today, 82 percent of orphans are raised in Ukrainian families. At the same time, we recognize the right of a child to be adopted as a foreigner when the possibility of having a child in a Ukrainian family is exhausted. By allowing the adoption of children abroad, we must be confident that the rights of the child will be protected. Joining the convention will enable Ukraine to harmonize the adoption procedures with the procedures of other countries in which the adoption takes place. in which our children are adopted. Improve methods of selecting foreign families to adopt Ukrainian children In Ukraine, state control over the activities of foreign bodies and organizations engaged in adoption activities. Strengthen the guarantees for obtaining reliable information on the living conditions and upbringing of Ukrainian children adopted by foreigners. In particular, if Ukraine joins the Convention, all functions relating to the representation of the child's interests in the adoption process will continue to be carried out exclusively by the State authorities of Ukraine.
ParlaMint-UA_2013-05-15-m0.u32	Turn it on, please. Yuri Romanovich, are you going to be and how are you going to be a co-reporter?
ParlaMint-UA_2013-05-15-m0.u33	Yeah, I'll report it.
ParlaMint-UA_2013-05-15-m0.u34	Come on, please.
ParlaMint-UA_2013-05-15-m0.u35	In particular, if Ukraine joins the Convention, all functions relating to the representation of the child's interests in the adoption process will continue to be carried out exclusively by the State authorities of Ukraine. Foreign organizations, on the other hand, will have the right to provide documents and documents to foreign nationals, to represent them in the public authorities in an order determined by the Cabinet of Ministers of Ukraine. Dear colleagues, I ask you to support the prescribed bill as a whole. Thank you for your attention.
ParlaMint-UA_2013-05-15-m0.u36	Thank you, Yuri Romanovich.
ParlaMint-UA_2013-05-15-m0.u37	In principle, I also report from the committee.
ParlaMint-UA_2013-05-15-m0.u38	Please, co-reporter from the committee, deputy head of the Committee on Foreign Affairs, Miroshnichenko Yuri Romanovich. He's got three minutes, he's got one more minute. Please.
ParlaMint-UA_2013-05-15-m0.u39	Dear colleagues, honourable voters, I will brief you on the decision of the committee of profile that reviewed this bill introduced by the President of Ukraine and voted in favour of the Supreme Council passing this law. Accordingly, the Chief Scientific and Experimental Authority of the Supreme Council also believes that the bill needs serious analysis, although the relevant scientific and expert office recommends that it be further developed. The Committee on Budget Affairs reports that the draft law will have an impact on the budget and also make some warnings. So please support the Committee's decision in foreign matters and vote in favour of this law. Thank you for your attention.
ParlaMint-UA_2013-05-15-m0.u40	Thank you, Yuri Romanovich. Have a seat. Please sign up: two for, two against the factions. The Fatherland faction, Burbak People's Deputy.
ParlaMint-UA_2013-05-15-m0.u41	Please pass the word to Lesi Orobec.
ParlaMint-UA_2013-05-15-m0.u42	National Deputy Olesia Orobec.
ParlaMint-UA_2013-05-15-m0.u43	Dear colleagues, I'm asking you to support me. This convention is not about allowing or not allowing for international adoption, we do. God’s Word, since 2009, we have been in line for the adoption of small, healthy children by the Ukrainians themselves. But out of the 26,000 orphans that are now, 24,000 are children over 6 years of age who are unfortunately not adopted, half of whom are seriously ill. If we accept this Convention, we will adopt an international mechanism to which we have already joined, ratified 89 countries in the world (including virtually all EU countries), we will have a mechanism that will enable our ambassadors to control the fate of these children: what is going on with them; whether they are in good hands, whether they care for them or cure them. All those who oppose, please confess honestly: If you are such patriots, adopt one sick child. Feed her, nurture her, heal her! Thank you.
ParlaMint-UA_2013-05-15-m0.u44	Freedom faction, People's MP Melnik.
ParlaMint-UA_2013-05-15-m0.u45	Dear Chairman! Honorable Members of Parliament! On another occasion, the predominant regime, through the Act on Ukraine’s accession to the Convention on the Protection of Children and Cooperation in Interstate Adoption, openly demonstrate their disgusting anti - Ukrainian face. They've already come to the most sacred -- to the children, and if this law is passed, they'll start dealing with orphans. Of course, every orphan child should be the warmest of the family, the warmth of the Ukrainian family, and we should not give our children away, who, because of different living conditions, have been left out of the family, to foreigners. On the contrary, Ukraine should take care of its own gene pool and ban the adoption of children by foreigners. But it's not up to the authorities. They do not want to hear what the Ukrainians have to say about it, even today. They don't want to hear the Ukrainians' opinion, and today, without public discussion, they're penetrating this law that they actually want to do kidnapping, that is, selling children. Respectable Society! This law provides for the creation in Ukraine of whole foreign representations that will select children to sell them later. Applying a different anti - Ukrainian law to the Supreme Council, the Yanukovich regime deliberately imposes unacceptable values on Ukrainians that undermine the morality of society. Their funeral was in 2011. When the Supreme Council of Ukraine ratified the European Convention on the Adoption of Children on February 15, 2011, a single-minded couple, contrary to the Constitution of Ukraine. On February 28, 2011, for the first time in the history of Ukraine.
ParlaMint-UA_2013-05-15-m0.u46	Faction of the Company of Ukraine, Jury, please.
ParlaMint-UA_2013-05-15-m0.u47	Please pass the word to Spirey Irina.
ParlaMint-UA_2013-05-15-m0.u48	People's MP Spireen.
ParlaMint-UA_2013-05-15-m0.u49	We Communists cannot support this convention [[B in m in s a l in]] First of all, let's keep differentiated what's going on with this bill. The content of article 19 of the Convention does not guarantee the compulsory participation of adoptive parents in the adoption process. The Convention does not contain a clear mechanism for obtaining complete and reliable information on the living and upbringing conditions of children adopted by foreigners. Third. There are no mechanisms and modalities for ensuring that Ukraine is informed of the conditions of residence and upbringing of the adopted child. And the last. The Central Authority is invited to define the Ministry of Social Policy of Ukraine for the exercise of authority under this Convention, requiring additional expenditure from the State budget. Thank you. [[B in m in s a l in]]
ParlaMint-UA_2013-05-15-m0.u50	The Vitalia Klitschka faction, Rosenko National MP.
ParlaMint-UA_2013-05-15-m0.u51	Please pass the word to Irina Heratchenko.
ParlaMint-UA_2013-05-15-m0.u52	Irina Heratchenko.
ParlaMint-UA_2013-05-15-m0.u53	Dear Mr. Head, dear colleagues! Did you know that this year is being fulfilled exactly 10 years since the Supreme Council of Ukraine cannot ratify this convention? And today we have a beautiful day and a wonderful reason to do so. And what I'm saying is that the impact fraction is different from the other political forces. We are voting in favour of a bill, not from the point of view of where we are, in power or opposition, but only in favour of the Ukrainians, and in this case Ukrainian children. And that's why we're going to support this convention, even though we're in opposition to Mr. Yanukovich. And we urge Janukovic's native faction to support this convention. Because Lesa the workman correctly said, there is no man in this room, and if there is, perhaps the units that adopted even a healthy child. We can't handle these children's fates. We need to do everything we can to make sure that each child finds his or her family. Of course, priority is given to the national adoptive parent. And what I'm trying to say is, isn't it the only good tradition that today's authorities have taken from the previous one, the mother's support for the birth of the child and the support for adoption? And thank God that today children in children’s homes are getting smaller, that more children are adopted, that sick children find their families abroad. God forbid, each of them will find their own family if they were born into a disadvantaged mother and father. And let's support them in that. And what's more, the impact faction suggests, let's work out the next bill together. First. So that we can make this constant contact with the adoptive family and know what is going on with this child. The other one. To create a single database of adopted and exported children. Third. To be sure that the Ukrainian embassies inform their adopted child at the age of 18 that she is a Ukrainian child so that she will have the opportunity to obtain Ukrainian citizenship if she wants to, in fact, then to receive education here, if she wants to, and to do the benefits. I think so.
ParlaMint-UA_2013-05-15-m0.u54	Thank you. Have a seat, please. For reasons of vote. Heroschenka, let's get this over with.
ParlaMint-UA_2013-05-15-m0.u55	My colleagues, all of you, welcome to my birthday today. You know, they didn't have politics, they were non-secret. It seems to me that we often lack this sincerity and non-partisanism. Let's talk about voting for the convention from a child's point of view, not our parties and slogans. Thank you for your attention.
ParlaMint-UA_2013-05-15-m0.u56	Thank you. Have a seat. German Hanna Mikolayevna, faction of the Party of the Regions, is invited. For reasons of vote.
ParlaMint-UA_2013-05-15-m0.u57	There's a lot about Western politicians in this room. But not so many people who really know that action. He knows and doesn't perfect it. These are big illusions that we can control what happens to our children in the same America or other countries abroad. You'll remember a huge scandal in the '90s when you sold Ukrainian children. We were unable to verify the fate of any of them in the United States because Western legislation forbids citizens and ambassadors and embassies of other countries to intervene in family matters. We'll never be able to verify that. And as long as we don't have any guarantee of where our children are going to be with us, we see the scary messages on TV every day from the west. Stealing children, chaining children, raping children.
ParlaMint-UA_2013-05-15-m0.u58	Please finish Hanna Mikolayevna.
ParlaMint-UA_2013-05-15-m0.u59	For days we have no guarantee that this will not happen to our children. So I propose that we postpone the consideration of this bill for the time being. Let's work on it, and we'll be sure that really those kids going west will have control of the state that is their original Fatherland. Thank you so much for understanding.
ParlaMint-UA_2013-05-15-m0.u60	Thank you, Anna Mikolayevna. Ladies and gentlemen, let's move on to the decision-making process. Here's the next offer. Taking into account the warnings that have now been made during the speeches by the people's deputies, the head of the committee, we will first put to the vote for acceptance as a basis, if this position is not supported, then we will put to the vote for adoption, to send to the Main Committee for re-reading. Ladies and gentlemen, I am voting on the draft Act (registration 0014) on Ukraine's accession to the Convention on the Protection of Children and Cooperation on Interstate Adoption for Adoption. Please vote. [[11:02:32]] For-123 The factions, please. Region Party 11, Fatherland 60, Vitaly Klicka Strike 35, Freedom 0, Company 0, non-fractional 17. The decision is not taken. I am voting on the proposal to send the draft Law (registration 0014) to the Main Committee for re-reading. Please vote. [[11:03:17]] For 287 Decision taken.
ParlaMint-UA_2013-05-15-m0.u61	Ladies and gentlemen, the two factions have called for a recess to be held in order to consult on matters of order and to make a statement. It's a faction of Fatherland and a faction of Liberty. I'm announcing 30 minutes. I invite the faction leaders to enter the office of the Chief of Staff of the Supreme Council. Please.
ParlaMint-UA_2013-05-15-m0.u62	Please make an announcement and invite the deputies into the hall. Please sit down, let's get back to work. Arsenius Petrovich Yacenuk, please inform the deputies.
ParlaMint-UA_2013-05-15-m0.u63	Mr. Head! Members of Parliament! The three opposition factions appealed to the Head of the Supreme Council of Ukraine and to the faction of most with a proposal not to consider the order of election in five or seven troubled districts. I'll report the position of the opposition factions. We believe that our candidates who participated in the 2013 parliamentary campaign in the so - called five troubled districts won these elections, and this victory was stolen from our party members and Ukrainians who voted in favour of the five opposition candidates in the majority districts. The bill, introduced by the Cabinet of Ministers of Ukraine, should first and foremost draw the attention of every major MP in this Parliamentary Hall. Honourable Marjorie deputies, if this bill is passed by the government, it means that any day of every year any court can rule on how illegal decisions have been made in relation to Dombrovsky and Balloga, and even after two or three years of your mandate, you may be deprived of the mandate of the Deputy of the Supreme Council of Ukraine. So we consider it necessary to adopt a law, I stress separately, a common law that makes it impossible: First, the facts of falsification; the second, which would prevent the mechanism for the removal of illegal mandates from the Supreme Council of Ukraine and the manipulation of judicial decisions; a third that will place a dot in the order of appointment of any timely election, including in cases where, under certain circumstances, it is impossible to establish the results of the vote; So our proposal today to the chairman and to the majority faction is to create a working group, to draft a joint bill that does not allow for falsification and withdrawal of mandates to pass this bill for the next week. And then vote it off. Thank you for your attention.
ParlaMint-UA_2013-05-15-m0.u64	Ladies and gentlemen, we are all five factions, the factions' leaders have agreed. So there's a law besides the law, there's a law from the government that's being passed by the Balogya People's Deputies, there's factionists working, there's work to do, and on that Sunday we're going to consider these laws, and we're going to put the day session in order and we're going to look at it. So let's move on. Report of the National Council on Television and Radio. The National Council, in accordance with article 16 of the Ukrainian Act "On the National Council of Ukraine for Television and Broadcasting, is to report annually to the Supreme Council of Ukraine. The report is subject to the requirements of this law and of the Supreme Council of Ukraine. According to the requirements of part five of article 240 of the Supreme Council’s Rules of Procedure, the following procedure has been defined: For the report to take up to 20 minutes, to answer the question to the reporter for up to 20 minutes, for the report to be completed within 10 minutes. The report is being discussed, if the Supreme Council decides on such a discussion, it takes 226 votes. Such a procedure. That is why I, the distinguished national deputies, give the floor to a report to the head of the National Council of Ukraine on the issues of television and radio talk by Vladimir Anatoliovich Manjosov. Please.
ParlaMint-UA_2013-05-15-m0.u65	In accordance with article 16 of the Ukrainian National Council for Television and Radio Broadcasting Act, I present the 2012 report of the regulatory body in the field of media, the television information sector. The report has been prepared and is presented to the Supreme Council by the six current members of the National Council, prepared in accordance with the requirements of article 16 of the Ukrainian Act on the National Council for Television and Radio Broadcasting, respectively, the structure of the report also meets the requirements of article 16 of the Ukrainian Act on the National Council for Television and Radio Broadcasting. This report was adopted by the National Council at its January 2012 meeting, it was published on the National Council website, in writing it was sent to the President of Ukraine and the Supreme Council of Ukraine. The National Council held a special press conference to answer all questions about its 2012 report. In addition, members of the National Council have prepared two large materials that have been published on the website Telecritika, a site that is one of the leading in the field of television and radio. Directly on our 2012 report, during this reporting period, the National Council carried out its responsibilities under its legislation. And the main directions of the National Council in 2012 were: fostering development. First of all, promoting the development of television information space, second of all, it's a function of regulation and thirdly, a function of monitoring and monitoring the activity of television broadcasters. As far as our main focus is concerned, namely, promoting the development of Ukraine's television information space, the first thing that continued in 2012 was the construction of the national digital television network in the DVB-T2 standard, composed of four multiplexes. In January 2012, there was a presentation of the main transmission station of Zeonbud, a total of 166 transmission stations were installed, and 664 power broadcasters were installed. This press conference and presentation was open, media representatives, representatives of the public were present, and everyone could be sure that Zeonbud has installed equipment, the most modern equipment of the most famous European companies working in the field of radio communications. In addition, all in attendance could see how all four of these signals are being transmitted to the transmission stations, how this signal is being controlled, and how the quality of the signal is being monitored. In June 2012, the National Council announced a second competition for free-channel language licenses on MX-5, a multiplex for local and regional language. I'm going to remind you that if on the first, second and third multiplexes, which are intended for national language, the competition took place, all the places are filled, then on the MX-5, which is intended for local language, we couldn't do it from the second attempt that was made in June 2012. But the result of the competition was that 25 other winners were identified at 99 local locations6 25 local television companies in 99 locations. Today, 122 channels are still available in 99 inhabited areas. In 2012, some 900,000 digital telethoners were distributed free of charge to socially vulnerable populations. To this end, 385 million dollars were allocated from the State Budget in 2011. And finally, in connection with the emergence of broadcasting organizations that speak in the DVB-T2 standard, we have taken steps to expand universal software services, i.e. those channels that are required for broadcasting in all cable operators' packets. To date, 361 television companies have changed the overall concept of software selection. These changes touched 104 channels, of which 52 were native. That's the first thing we did in 2012 with the development of radio space. Secondly, the National Council has contributed to the expansion of Ukraine's territory through active channels. In addition to the MX-5 competition, four more competitions were held and 47 new licences were issued. In addition, 19 cable - language licenses, 8 satellite - language licenses, and 114 other licenses were issued by the software provider, were issued on a faulty basis. Third. A priority of the National Council’s work during the reporting period was the development of children’s speech and the protection of children from negative information. I want to say that if we had only one specialized children’s channel, a satellite channel in 2011, we had five specialized children’s satellite channels and two ground-based children’s canals in 2012. In addition, the National Council adopted a decision to establish an interagency task force for the development and implementation of a national system of markings to protect children from information that could harm their health. And the National Council in 2012 was also the main organizer of the International Children's Youth Festival of Audiovisual Arts, "The Crystal of Sources". In 2012, the 21st festival in Winnice was held. In addition, the National Council of 2012 registered 10 legal acts of the National Council at the Ministry of Justice, which was not previously made by the previous National Councils. These are important legal acts, such as the National Television Development Plan. of this space, "The Rules for the Development of Software Services in Software Provider Packages," "The Order for the Issue of Provider Licenses", "The Order for the Conduct of Teleradio Organization Checkings", "The Position for Cancellation, Sanctions, Announcements, Warnings" and other legal and regulatory acts adopted by the National Council. In addition, we have developed and approved fines that may be imposed on radio organizations and software providers for violations of legislation. This is a requirement of the Ukrainian Television and Radio Act, which has not yet been implemented. In addition, we have undertaken a series of measures to combat video piracy and, without licensing, have developed and developed, in accordance with our commitments to create an enabling environment for vitality and to ensure the needs of people with visual and visual disabilities in access to information, developed a project to optimize access to information in the field of television broadcasting for people with persistent sensory disorders for 2013-2015. The second direction of the National Council during the reporting period is the regulatory function. In 2012, 40 meetings of the National Council were held. Two thousand and 565 decisions were adopted at these meetings. All our decisions are posted on the official website of the National Council for two days. In addition, every session of the National Council is followed by a briefing for all present journalists, at which they can ask all the questions. And on the issues that were discussed at the National Council meeting directly and on all other issues of the National Council. When spoken in numerals, about 2,000 applications for radio organizations were considered, and 295 licences were issued and redesigned. Changes to 992 licenses have been made. 31 air licences, 17 wires, and 6 cables were extended. In addition, 106 television licenses were revoked. But I'm paying attention to you, honourable national deputies, that 102 applications were at your own request for radio organizations. In addition, the National Council, according to law, maintains the State Register of Ukrainian Broadcasting Organizations. And during the reporting period, 73 new radio organizations were introduced to the State Register, and 93 were removed, which ceased to exist. In 2012, we implemented a plan for coming to the National Budget of Ukraine, there is a plan for the National Council. The government budget accounted for 23 million dollars. In addition, 11 channels have expanded the list of foreign programs that correspond to the European Convention on Transborder Television and which are not limited in the territory of Ukraine. Today, there are 166 foreign channels in this list, in the so - called adaptive list. Finally, the third function of the National Council is the control function. In 2012, 389 television audits were conducted, of which 301 were planned, this is the year of activity and before the licence was completed. And 88 pre-plan tests. Of the 88 out-of-plan tests, I'd like to draw your attention, 21 were conducted by the licensees themselves. So we've introduced this norm, and I've been talking about the position on canceling sanctions and announcing a warning. I mean, in a situation where the company got a warning, but they fixed all the comments, the flaws. She asks the National Council to appoint an out-of-plan test. If a pre-planned check detects no violations, we cancel the warning notice. In general, I want to say that in 2012 the number of checks carried out by the National Council is at least five years. With regard to pre-planned tests, they were conducted twice as many times as they were in 2011. The National Council conducts official monitoring of radio organizations. Today, the capabilities of the National Council Monitoring Centre allow us to keep a permanent 24-hour broadcast of 14 air national channels, three regional and 19 regional and local radio channels. In addition, the National Council conducted thematic monitoring in 2012. These include compliance with the terms of the licenses for part of the national audiovisual product, compliance by local broadcasters with the Ukrainian Law on Social Moral Protection, monitoring of the extent of child-to-child speech on the air of local television organizations, monitoring of compliance with advertising legislation and monitoring of compliance by software providers with the requirements of legislation for the adaptation of foreign programmes. 2012 was also a special year for the National Council because during this period a report was prepared on the compliance of radio organizations with the order of speech established by the legislation during the election campaign of the Ukrainian National Deputies in 2012. This report was prepared for us, which was submitted to the Central Electoral Commission, and according to the National Council in December 2012 assigned pre-planned checks on companies that revealed signs of electoral law violations. Two words about international cooperation, cooperation with international organizations. We work together, work closely with the Council of Europe, the Organisation for Security and Cooperation in Europe, and the EPRO is the European Regulatory Platform for Regulatory Authorities, which brings together regulatory bodies in Europe. In addition, I would like to point out that the National Council works in open and systematic access to public information. During the reporting period, we received 53 requests for public information from individuals and legal persons and 308 appeals and criticisms from citizens. All the questions were answered. The terms prescribed by law provided the right answers. In addition, our work is highlighted in the official resource, the National Council's web resource, in the media. We also opened pages on Facebook and Twitter in 2012. Ladies and gentlemen, I would like to point out the issues that exist in the National Council and which have also been seen, including in our activities in 2012. The first is the funding of the National Council, which is financed exclusively from the State budget. And out of the five budget programmes that the National Council is required to implement under law, only one is financed. Well, overall funding for the National Council amounted to 65 percent of the minimum in 2012. This makes it difficult for us to perform our tasks, especially with regard to one of the main tasks of official monitoring. Our monitoring center needs funding for capital repairs. We also need restocking in our monitoring centres, which are in our representations in the areas of Kiev and Sevastopol. Modern legislation does not match the realities of today. And we understand that and we are taking an active part in the work of the working group in the drafting of the Television and Radio Broadcasting Act. I want to say that we also need to address the issues that relate to the activities of satellite platforms that work under DHT technology, other issues related to the development of new technologies, new media that are not regulated by the current edition of the Ukrainian Television and Broadcasting Act. Ladies and gentlemen, the National Council report was submitted at the proper time. The president of Ukraine approved the National Council report. I would like to see the 2012 National Council Report. And besides, if I have this ability on occasion, I ask the Head of the Supreme Council and all the national deputies to speed up the question of appointing a fourth member of the National Council from the Supreme Council. The competition was announced, all the competition procedures are in place. The candidates have been discussed in a profile committee, at the Freedom of Word and Information Committee, and this question about the appointment of a fourth member of the National Council from the Supreme Council may already be discussed in the session hall. Thank you for your attention.
ParlaMint-UA_2013-05-15-m0.u66	Thank you. The report is complete. People's deputies please sign up for questions. Please sign up for the question. The "Fatherland" faction, please.
ParlaMint-UA_2013-05-15-m0.u67	Dear Mr. Head of the National Council, we are all concerned about the situation in which Ukrainian television is being introduced into digital language. You know very well that according to article 25 of the Television and Broadcasting Act, the advantage of obtaining a license is given to those speakers who are already speaking, giving priority to socially important information, socio-political, childish, and so on. Instead, the National Council of Ukraine, in conducting this competition, has issued a series of licenses to companies that have not yet existed on the market without licensing such famous television companies as "2+2", "ERA", TV, "Little," children's, by the way, channel, city, 24, First Business, Black Sea, ZIK, SAT+. I'm not talking about a whole bunch of local and regional speakers in both the West and the East of Ukraine, who stayed out of speech. We know that there's actually a way to have not 32 channels, but 50 channels, because the other channels were supposed to be, like Zeonbud said, pay. But the National Council did the right thing not to allow the launch.
ParlaMint-UA_2013-05-15-m0.u68	Please. I'll be with you in a minute. Please answer.
ParlaMint-UA_2013-05-15-m0.u69	Thank you for asking, Mikola Leonidovich. This question has been discussed on a number of occasions, as you asked today. And we have answered this question in many different audiences. Licenses are issued on a competitive basis. The National Council competitions are open and it's the National Council and it's guided by all the criteria that you've been talking about when some channels haven't been licensed for air-digital language. What I'm saying is that all the existing national channels got this license, they actually got a number of new companies. But I want to talk about it, and we know about it, and you, including not one channel, have raised, and not one channel have created yourself, you know, that once all the channels that are now on the air of Ukraine, they were once unknown, little-known or new channels that didn't speak before.
ParlaMint-UA_2013-05-15-m0.u70	Party of Districts Dinner, please.
ParlaMint-UA_2013-05-15-m0.u71	Vladimir Evening, faction of the Party of the Regions. I give you my word to a professional on the radio, Jaroslav Sukhoma.
ParlaMint-UA_2013-05-15-m0.u72	Thank you. Dear Volodymira Anatoliyovich, your contribution to the development of the television information space, I, as a result of a question by my colleague Knieżycski, ended up in a future pogrom of many regional television companies, a scandalous digital speech contest that was launched by Zaporezki TV company "Alex" on the air, unfortunately, has, in most cases, won until then, no one knows the Kramator campaign "Free Space". You've received monitoring, official monitoring, that there is no one on this company's air for a year and a half. Under the law, you have to make a decision, otherwise we're going to have to speed up the appointment of the fourth member of the Nacrada, but to disband such a National Council and convert it, because you're no longer a Nacrada, but a business structure that serves specific business interests. () [[Applause]]
ParlaMint-UA_2013-05-15-m0.u73	Dear Jaroslav Mikhailovich! The subject is also well-known to you all the time, and you know the law that is in force today in the Ukrainian Television and Radio Act. Under this law, the campaign, if it hasn't been on the air for a year, can be denied the license of the National Council. But the company that you're talking about, and the other companies that are in this situation, they're making a very good move from the point of view of continuing their activities: they're going on the air for a period of time, two, three days, they're taking a statement at the UDFD or in the official monitoring that's taking place in the area, in the organization that's doing the monitoring in this area, and then they're continuing to prepare for full language. All of our attempts in such situations to revoke the license ended in nothing in the courts. So the company has proof that it's in the course of a year.
ParlaMint-UA_2013-05-15-m0.u74	Vitaly Klitschka, People's Deputy Sold.
ParlaMint-UA_2013-05-15-m0.u75	Please pass the word to Valentine.
ParlaMint-UA_2013-05-15-m0.u76	Please, Valentin Nastvaichenko.
ParlaMint-UA_2013-05-15-m0.u77	Dear colleagues, dear Mr. Head, the distinguished speaker! The Vitaly Klitschka faction has an important question to ask you as to the National Council. We are now working seriously in Parliament to implement the maximum number of legislative acts to enable the signing in Vilnius of the Agreement on Political Association with the European Union. The question to the National Council is: what, especially if you do it to get a bill from the government or from you, as one of the government agencies, to create public television in Ukraine? The example we're giving you right now is where to take: the Republic of Finland, where citizens are co-owners of public television and where there is no corruption because of such shares of public television. Thank you.
ParlaMint-UA_2013-05-15-m0.u78	Thank you for asking. Unfortunately, the National Council has no right to legislative initiative. But we're ready to talk about supporting any steps in creating public television in Ukraine. We have spoken this over and over in all meetings with the national deputies, with representatives of the OSCE, with representatives of the European Regulatory Platform. Everything we need from the National Council, we're ready to do it. So it's up to us: it's the transformation of the licenses of state broadcasters into a public-language television company, or the issuance of new licenses, or any step towards the creation of a public council, or public television. All these steps we support and are ready to join in. Thank you.
ParlaMint-UA_2013-05-15-m0.u79	Please, Party of Regions, Besbach National MP.
ParlaMint-UA_2013-05-15-m0.u80	Please give Annie Herman the word. Thank you.
ParlaMint-UA_2013-05-15-m0.u81	Please, Hanna Herman.
ParlaMint-UA_2013-05-15-m0.u82	Dear reporter, your report may be good, but if you turn on Ukrainian television, it's terrible, serious analytic programs replaced by cheap shows. I don't understand what law you need to understand that Ukrainian children don't watch programs at four o'clock in the morning. You know, there's a requirement for TV channels for children to broadcast programs, so they put it at 4:00 in the morning to put a twig on, and you don't respond. I'm not saying that there's no appropriate standard at all, that television is rolling, that everything is going down and down. You were talking about the state investing huge amounts in television development, maybe in technology -- yes, but the point is, you should be on the lookout. Thank you.
ParlaMint-UA_2013-05-15-m0.u83	Thank you. I was talking about what the National Council was doing during the reporting period with regard to children’s speech. I don't agree with you that the National Council doesn't work if we do what you see when children's programs go at night. It was such a practice, indeed, it was such a practice, and so was the Law on Television and Radio Broadcasting in the Language Section of Ukrainian Radio Organizations when it was implemented. was an appropriate old edition of article 10 of this law. If we show that a television organization speaks at night, we pay attention to these radio organizations and do not transform their licenses or give them warnings based on the results of the test, and that was the case at the National Council. And as far as I can remember, the most recent event was with the Gala radio company, whose lawyers also proved to us that there are programs going on at night and we have kids who watch these shows at night.
ParlaMint-UA_2013-05-15-m0.u84	Fatherland faction, Brigine, please.
ParlaMint-UA_2013-05-15-m0.u85	The Fatherland faction, Oblon. Please tell me two questions. First. What Does It Do? The National Council to ensure that during the day, as prohibited by law, there is no endless advertising of alcoholic beverages? Endlessly, turn on the TV, perhaps the members of the Nakrad do not watch TV, but in the morning, alcohol is advertised under various forms. I didn't hear any statements or decisions from Nacrada on this issue. The second question. In recent times, contrary to the Advertising Act, advertising in Russian has begun. How is this allowed? Why is there no reaction to Nakrad? And tell me, please, there's a situation where these two violations are clearly consistent: this is an ad by someone named Eve, vodka. In the day and night, it spins, and in the Russian language. What is your position on this?
ParlaMint-UA_2013-05-15-m0.u86	Thank you for asking. We've discussed this issue over and over and over and over again, including these issues now in cooperation with the Freedom of Word and Information Committee. In fact, advertising for alcohol during the day is really forbidden, but it is not prohibited to advertise trademarks that are actually being advertised. Lawyers of television organizations reflect every attempt by the National Council to prove that it is alcohol, not the legal marketing of trademarks. As far as advertising in Russian is concerned, according to the Law on Principles of State Language Policy, television organizations are now free, including not only in the choice of language for their programs, broadcasts, but also in the free choice and language of advertising that they carry out in their broadcasts. Thank you.
ParlaMint-UA_2013-05-15-m0.u87	The Fatherland faction, Burbak People's Deputy.
ParlaMint-UA_2013-05-15-m0.u88	Please give the floor to Deputy Andrew Shevchenk.
ParlaMint-UA_2013-05-15-m0.u89	Andrew Shevchenko.
ParlaMint-UA_2013-05-15-m0.u90	Dear Volodymyr Anatolyovich! Our faction is critical to the work of the National Council today. This reminds us of a familiar picture of three monkeys: I can't see anything; I can't hear anything; I won't say anything. What does that mean? First. It was for the work of your National Council in Ukraine that censorship flourished. This means that state TV channels from UT-1 to district television companies have turned into propaganda channels that broadcast black market movies about Julia Timoshenko, and opposition there can't be penetrated for months. The other one. The National Council has moved away from interfering with conflict situations. The frequencies that were taken from TV, in 5 channels, in Kharkiv four channels is the zero response of Nacrada. Third. It's a digital contest that the monster gave to the country called Greenbud and that gave digital frequencies to five single-day firms. Therefore, the question before the National Council for your headship is simple. What are you planning to change in the work of the National Council? Today she's not setting us up, our faction.
ParlaMint-UA_2013-05-15-m0.u91	Thank you for asking, Andrey Vitaliovich. I presented the 2012 National Council report, and on this issue I set out our position and what we did. And in our opinion, we did the right thing. Acting in accordance with current legislation, and we can talk about what we can change in the activities of the National Council -- it's only more to make our work open, our work open and more, yes, to respond to the challenges that sometimes are. But the question is, in recent years, everything has been done to make it impossible. How can I get less authority from the National Council? Uninterrupted in Kharkiv. In the situation with the Kharkiv canals? Tell me what it is.
ParlaMint-UA_2013-05-15-m0.u92	The strike faction, Irina Heratchenko.
ParlaMint-UA_2013-05-15-m0.u93	Please pass the word to Paul Rosenko.
ParlaMint-UA_2013-05-15-m0.u94	Rosetta, please.
ParlaMint-UA_2013-05-15-m0.u95	Please tell us (Paulo Rosenko, Faction "ADA"), you told us about the program of telethoners that was being implemented in 2012. And how did it turn out that this is the program that started a few months before the election? And how did it happen that, in a mass order throughout Ukraine, telethoners were served on behalf of one party — the party of power? How did the telethoners you bought become the adage product of some candidates to the MPs and the parties of power in the general district? Tell me, who is personally responsible that you have actually become the pre-election headquarters of the Party of Regions throughout Ukraine?
ParlaMint-UA_2013-05-15-m0.u96	Thank you for asking. But the question is not to the National Council. The National Council didn't buy telethoners, it didn't distribute them, and it didn't have anything to do with the process. If I have time then, I'll go back to the questions that were before. Questions about our position with regard to Kharkiv companies, TVi. We're not interfering with these processes, because these processes lie outside the jurisdiction of the National Council. But this situation is, it is very threatening. We have now, let's say, two directors on TV and two founders on TV. We have the same company, the same situation for TWA companies in Chernivka. There are also two directors with two seals. And in some licenses, in others, there's a duplicate license. We cannot intervene where the conflict is taking place. Moreover, I believe that the position of the National Council was very balanced. Because we were required to carry out tests. And if you're doing a test at the time that those companies were there during the breakup.
ParlaMint-UA_2013-05-15-m0.u97	The Fatherland faction, Irina Lucenko, please.
ParlaMint-UA_2013-05-15-m0.u98	Please pass the word to Ariev.
ParlaMint-UA_2013-05-15-m0.u99	Pass on Ari's word, please.
ParlaMint-UA_2013-05-15-m0.u100	Mr. Manjosov, I have two questions for you. First. Please tell me what you were doing, when you were giving out digital language licenses, you were constantly doing in the Ukrainian Security Service building, which was controlled by one of the owners at the same time by one of the Ukrainian famous teleholdings. And the second question. And please tell me, when was the last time the National Council conducted a serious analysis of the implementation of national channels (such as Inter, 1+1, ICTV, STB, New and other national) of the terms of licensing? In particular, the quota for children's programs, cultural programs, historical, educational. Please tell me, when did you seriously carry out this task of keeping these channels under license conditions? Thank you.
ParlaMint-UA_2013-05-15-m0.u101	It's about the first question. In that building you're talking about, I was once. As for the person you're talking about, I've talked about this once in my life, and this was a long time ago, and I wasn't a member of the National Council, nor was I the head of the National Council. As for our work on national channels, the criteria of the programming concepts that you were talking about. This work is carried out on a continuous basis. But by our procedure, if we're monitoring, we're showing some sort of violation, including a violation of the programming concept, the company gets a written letter warning that our monitoring reveals such and such flaws. And they have a month to bring their activities into line with current legislation and licensing conditions. If our re-monitoring detects a continuation of the infringements, then a pre-plan inspection is scheduled, and companies can review this pre-planned check.
ParlaMint-UA_2013-05-15-m0.u102	Party of regions, National Deputy Stoyan.
ParlaMint-UA_2013-05-15-m0.u103	Please give the floor to a specialist in this matter, Helen Bondarenko.
ParlaMint-UA_2013-05-15-m0.u104	Please, Olena Bondarenko.
ParlaMint-UA_2013-05-15-m0.u105	Thank you very much. Bondarenko, Party of Regions. I would like to add to the picture some facts. Those present here probably do not know that in our special committee, which has not been very appreciative of the activities of the National Council, of the 10 members of 8 are those who do not represent our political power but regard themselves as opposition. Therefore, it is clear that their assessment is clearly political and protects the interests of their political forces. As for the contribution of the National Council to the industry, I would like to assess several criteria. But above all, the fight against unlicensed activities. Well, let's say, a little, three. As far as digitization is concerned, my personal opinion has not been reached by a quarter, but three. The universal software service is two points. Children's broadcast, here's where you tried, good guys, here's four.
ParlaMint-UA_2013-05-15-m0.u106	Did you hear the question?
ParlaMint-UA_2013-05-15-m0.u107	In fact, there were no questions, there was an evaluation of the National Council.
ParlaMint-UA_2013-05-15-m0.u108	Please turn Bondarenko on.
ParlaMint-UA_2013-05-15-m0.u109	Is the microphone working? Thank you. And with regard to the work on the new draft of the law, five points. I mean, it's obviously a disaster. We're not going out. Therefore, my personal opinion is that with great criticism, we must take into account the report of the National Council. Thank you.
ParlaMint-UA_2013-05-15-m0.u110	Thank you. Thank you, Helen Anatolyevna, for our assessment of our activities.
ParlaMint-UA_2013-05-15-m0.u111	Yes, have a seat. Time's up.
ParlaMint-UA_2013-05-15-m0.u112	Thank you to the National Deputies for asking.
ParlaMint-UA_2013-05-15-m0.u113	Thank you. The chairman of the committee says that he needs to be listened to, because the reporter, I've seen a few people hear everything. The National MP is Freedom, he's been listening, and Hanna Herman, and several other deputies. Maybe they'll listen to you. Please, Tomenko Mikola Volodymyrovich.
ParlaMint-UA_2013-05-15-m0.u114	Dear colleagues, it is very important that we consider the Nacrada report in the session hall. In the preceding period, in a previous call to the Supreme Council, bad practice arose when the Supreme Council was not reached because of different circumstances. And I think it's one of the key strategic problems that today's information policy of the state has turned into business policy in the information field. The National Security and Defence Council, as far as I'm concerned, was meeting for the last time on the issue of the information policy of the Ukrainian State in 2008. At a government meeting of a strategic nature, the bill has long been closed. The president instructed the government to submit the Media Dismantling Act by April 5. He hasn't looked at it quite yet. And the situation is that the key question that is called the information space of Ukraine, or I would say more precisely, the national information space of Ukraine -- today the topic that people who hate Ukraine are either dealing with, or the people who want to make money in Ukraine. And the problem with the National Council is that it's turned into a license-issue tool, a business discussion, not a strategic body that we predicted. Article 1 of the National Council Act clearly states: "One of the main tasks of the National Council is supervision, monitoring of compliance with legislation in the field of radio broadcasting." That's what they have to do. My colleagues said, "Why doesn't the National Council interfere with the actual direct vodka commercial?" This is how the National Council works -- it's kind of like the Crying Eve commercial. They're like a crybaby. They're looking: there's nothing we can do. Well, there's nothing you can do when it's actually direct advertising that's strictly forbidden by law. Who can do that? Of course, we have registered a bill and will require a total ban on drinking and beer advertising. But your mission is to react daily and not allow this story to happen. It's a problem with the staff. But the Supreme Council will vote, no questions asked. We prepared all the suggestions on the committee. But we have to listen to the report, and then we will vote for the fourth member of the Nacraada. But I have a question: who in Ukraine is involved in information policy? And the President's Administration says that you're setting up a two-year President, who's an evil violator of the Nacrad Act? Article 6 of the Naqrada Act states that if a member of the Naqrada is released on the President’s quota, he should be appointed during the seat. The fourth member of the Nacradia from the President is not appointed for the third year. We've got everything good in the information space, everyone's coping that such a key position is comparable, if I'm not mistaken, to the Deputy Prime Minister under the State Service Act, still not filled? Most importantly, and today on the committee we made a unanimous decision before this, unfortunately, the session hall did not support us to listen, to hold parliamentary hearings, to speak digitally. Because when I say digital language, this is 2015 for me, so I think if we don't change anything, this is going to be the effect -- this is the pension reform and the land reform that we've deferred. So the amount of anti-national and pensional and land reform can be if we don't change this format of digital language. What took place today in the lead of the National Television and Radio Board. In fact, today, in shadow mode, the structure is incomprehensible, no one knows. By the way, Nakrad also failed to determine who the owner was. We know the director, but who owns this Zeonbud? Now, this Zeonbud, my colleagues have already spoken, he issues his licenses, he doesn't issue a license, he doesn't issue a license, he issues a license. Now I have a question about what we're going to get in 2015. In 2015, analogs are excluded from language, digitally occurring. Here, I have a question. I looked, the experts counted, and they said, Nakrad and Zeonbud counted 167 Zeonbud network stations to cover 95 percent of the population with a digital signal. Our experts, the technicians, Odessa, Kiev, have calculated that even if our citizens buy antennas for their own expenses and put them on roofs, the maximum coverage will be 60 to 70 percent. I have a question. Who will be responsible for the fact that 30 percent of Ukrainian citizens in the 21st century will not receive television in 2015, will not see television? Who will be responsible for the fact that today the vast majority of regional speakers have not been given the right to work since 2015? Someone counts 115 channels, 120 channels, and they're not the channels that they say went on one day. What's for one day? These are the major influential channels in the regions that speak today. They will not speak in 2015! So our position at today's committee hearings on digital language will be as follows. It's not Nakrad's problem, it's the problem of the state, what's called "the transition to digital language." We're going to demand, and by the way, I've got a good letter from the President's Administration, and we're going to have to convince them to look into this. It must be a state body that controls the transition to digital language in the country. This applies to every man in the country. If Nakrad has no authority, let's make a special law decision on the procedure for the introduction of digital language. The colleagues here were talking about the multiplexes and all the rest of the stuff. So not only is it that the elections have been issued, but the trouble is that there is no more money in the budget, it is no longer published. And I have a question: our country is the only country that's decided by the National Council to code the broadcast program, and there's no coding in any country. What does that mean? That this service is now twice as expensive for you to accept digital language, a peasant, a worker, or someone else, has to be paid twice as much. This was done by appropriate firms that would win tenders to buy it. But the question is, who will help poor people to buy it and then put the antenna on? So all about digital language, your fellow citizens, is a story that shows that the shadowy non-public nature of decision-making in the information field can have consequences for the loss of information sovereignty. I don't know who the owners are. And then there's this Cyprus disaster, and they're going to say again that there's something down there, something down or something down, and so on. And this company broke down. I have a question about what to do with the Ukrainian State in 2015? Because the only monopoly owner for producing multiplexes and spreading signals in Ukraine is this private company Zeonbud. What will we do with the government’s RRT campaign that has worked for us, served us, and now serves? It will be dissolved, privatized to the entire system of transfer today. Who is entitled to speak in analog channels? In all the countries that have switched to digital language, this is a state led by the President that has been gathering and saying, friends, if we take the analog, we give it only under the guarantees of the state, for example, the Uktelekom there, although it's already privatized. I mean, government functions, telephones, the Internet, and so on. I have the impression that these frequencies will continue to be divided as divided by this digital language. The next problem is equally important, the National Council and the previous call, and the current call, in fact, has done everything to destroy the National Radio network. We have a unique heritage that we can partially retain. What's called "national radio talk" is SD-1, SD-2, SD-3, it's "Amen," it's "Culture" and "Ukrainian Radio". How does the National Council work? The National Council, when it publishes frequencies, I don't know if it's looking at the founders, whether they're abroad or Ukraine. For example, last year, a company that's offshore registered, New Oyster, super-radio, got a total of 55 frequencies in the 25th cities of Ukraine. How many National Radios have they got? In a small city in Kiev. What does that mean? This means that today the conductive language is being destroyed, and it will be destroyed, because the Shrimp Company is a private company, it doesn't want to do anything, there's about 1 million 100,000 left, 1 million households have conductive speech. What is the solution? Just an FM-range network, because it's a digital radio, when else is it going to be? And no one knows what it is. So at the President's level, I'm going to convince the RNB to make a decision. There must be an FM-talking network where we can save three Ukrainian radio companies -- UR-1, UR-2, UR-3, where one and a half thousand or two thousand of the best experts work. These are the most prominent cultural actors, educations that at least keep the balance of Ukrainian information in these radio companies. So our position on the committee was as follows: we, by a majority of votes, decided not to approve the National Council's report, and in this way require the President, the Government and the Supreme Council to influence the situation and stop the depriving of Ukraine's information space. We're going to lose the final information space.
ParlaMint-UA_2013-05-15-m0.u115	Thank you. Is there a need to discuss this? Yes. Then I put to the vote to report to the National Council of Ukraine on television issues. [[B in m in s a l in]] No discussion? [[B in m in s a l in]] Don't yell. There is a Rules, according to the Rules for the Discussion of the Report, if the Supreme Council has decided on such a discussion. That's why I'm voting. You're yelling, and I can't put it to a vote. Who is in favour of the 2012 report of the National Council of Ukraine on television and radio talk, please vote. [[12:29:25]] For 184 The decision is not taken. So let's move on to making a decision. By factions, show: Region Party – eight, Fatherland – 66, Vitalia Calla Faction – 31, Freedom Association – 34, Company – 31, non-faction – 14. The main committee was introduced by the Regulation (Registration No. 2543) and the committee, you have heard, Mikola Tomenko made a proposal, proposes a report by the National Council of Ukraine on television and radio broadcasting for 2012. So let me put this proposal to the committee first. [[B in m in s a l in]] Please vote. [[12:30:51]] For 148 Against the 3rd. It's been held up to 45. There was no vote - 199. No decision was taken. The factions. Region Party 3, Fatherland 68, Vitaly Klicka Hit 35, Freedom 34, Company 0, Postfaction 8. So I'm making an offer to take a report from the National Council to a well-known one. People's deputies, please vote. [[12:31:41]] For 180. The decision is neither made nor taken. So they're working well. Not enough? I had to vote that wasn't enough. That is why we wish you success. Work. Let's move on. Thank you. Now, on the basis of the vote, please. Hanna Herman on the basis of the vote.
ParlaMint-UA_2013-05-15-m0.u116	Dear Mr. Head, a decision that has not just been made in the Supreme Council allows and causes us to take the situation very seriously. I propose to listen to the National Council in this room once again, to give time for discussion, to analyze the conversation that took place today. Let them draw conclusions. We cannot be so reckless about the situation that arose in the hall. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-UA_2013-05-15-m0.u117	So let's protocolly do that. The National Commission hears. Please, Snatcher, national MP.
ParlaMint-UA_2013-05-15-m0.u118	Ladies and gentlemen, I support Anna Herman's offer. On the grounds of the vote, I want to say. I voted against it because Nacrad was deliberately violating existing legislation, not giving digital language licenses to both regional and central speakers. And there's information about Horoshkovsky's involvement, the former head of the U.S.S.A., in these issues. I think of this as an address to the Attorney General and the commission. Tomenko's committee to see if any action was actually taken by members of the National Council, how many times did they go to the BSO building (it's all on video) and Horoshkovsky's involvement in an opaque digital contest. To check how the committee and report to us, the committee, and the Attorney General's office. Thank you.
ParlaMint-UA_2013-05-15-m0.u119	Please, Irina Heratchenko, strike faction.
ParlaMint-UA_2013-05-15-m0.u120	Dear colleagues, we can at least discuss the activities of this Nakrad every day, but it is obvious that we are all well aware of how it works. And it would be fair for all the factions of the Supreme Council to evaluate this activity today. If, instead of a regulator, this Nakrad has become a penal organ if it does not serve freedom of speech and serves the authorities (and it is well known in the party of authority), do you need such servants, do you need those who will be high in their duties as civil servants? I want to remind my honourable fellow Members of Parliament that for the first time, we have the Nakrad, where there is no representative of the opposition factions, of the opposition factions, and, most horrendously, of the public organizations. And we need to get two people in there, and we need to appeal to the President again, and not the servants of our own, but the experts in this case, who are going to do the law and protect the Ukrainian information space. So far they're working in their own pocket and in other states. Thank you for your attention.
ParlaMint-UA_2013-05-15-m0.u121	Thank you. The Fatherland faction on the basis of the vote, Yavorowski.
ParlaMint-UA_2013-05-15-m0.u122	Vladimir Yavorowski, Trinity, Fatherland. Dear colleagues! In the person of the National Commission whose report we are discussing, we have a key body that should be responsible for information security, for the information space of the Ukrainian State. Today’s discussion showed that we did not come to any conclusions — either positive or negative. I mean, Vladimir Vasilovich, I understand you wanted so, you know, from the barback's shoulder to say, good guys, go on, work on it. As a result, I join those who offered to listen once more. It's very important. We need to find out what Zeonboud is, which has actually been given the means, the electronic media in one hand? Who's behind this Zeonbud? And it's like that? What people? Let them open their faces. Because of this, I support the position that we need to have a re-examination, Volodymyr Vasilovich. Allow everyone to speak, discuss these issues. Then we will help the National Council.
ParlaMint-UA_2013-05-15-m0.u123	Please, Miroshnichenko, Freedom.
ParlaMint-UA_2013-05-15-m0.u124	Deputies! I mean. Of course, there is no secret that today the information space of Ukraine is occupied, denationalized, and lacks representation of national interests. And it is because of national space that there is a real threat to Ukraine’s national security. But at the same time, I want to go to all the voters in the East and the West. Today, the activities of the National Television and Radio Council violate your constitutional rights. That's what I mean. The head of our committee of profile has already said that Ukraine’s National Radio Company is now virtually deprived of the ability to obtain a language license in the district centers. Ukraine’s National Radio Company, which is carrying out the constitutional function of informing the population about emergency situations and other events, is now de-energized! The same will happen in 2015 with television when digital language covers half of Ukraine! And the rest of Ukraine will be in an information vacuum and a blackout. That is why we support rehearsing.
ParlaMint-UA_2013-05-15-m0.u125	Please, the Communist faction, Peter Mikolaiovich.
ParlaMint-UA_2013-05-15-m0.u126	Simonenko, the Communist faction. Dear colleagues! I want us to understand that we need to consider separately the issue of public information policy. [[B in m in s a l in]] Public policy could only be State when the State owned both information space and information channels or formed with the participation of the State. Today, information space has become a field of lies, falsifications, embezzlement, destruction of the material fabric of society, clan divisions, monopolization of the information space by the oligarchic clans. There is no information policy in the State, there is an information space under the control of the oligarchs. That's what we need to do. No State policy is being implemented today, the interests of the clan are being pursued. This turns the media into a source of corruption, spilling out rivers of blood, and the lowness of human qualities. Honesty and decency are generally rooted in roots. That is why we now propose to consider, in general, the development of an information policy through a return to State control.
ParlaMint-UA_2013-05-15-m0.u127	Ladies and gentlemen, an invitation has been made to all factions to listen to the report of the National Council. Perhaps we can make a decision by listening to the 2013 report of the National Council of Ukraine, according to the findings of the 2013 work. Is that how you put it on the vote? No, it's not. So let's do it in circles. Fatherland, Princess, please.
ParlaMint-UA_2013-05-15-m0.u128	Dear Mr. Head, distinguished national deputies!
ParlaMint-UA_2013-05-15-m0.u129	Make suggestions so I can put them to the vote.
ParlaMint-UA_2013-05-15-m0.u130	Today, according to the law, we have not adopted an annual report to the council. Period. President accepted, we didn't accept. There are no other forms of the Television and Radio Act. A report is received once a year. We didn't confirm it today. All of it.
ParlaMint-UA_2013-05-15-m0.u131	So I summed it up. But you started yelling, so let's do some more. So I'm asking for options. That's an old option. Please. Fedoruk, please, Fatherland.
ParlaMint-UA_2013-05-15-m0.u132	Fedoruk, Fatherland, electoral district 201, Chernivci. I'd like to clarify what Mr. Manjosov said about the fact that there are two leaders in a television company in Chernobyl. It's not true. There is a legally elected, appointed leader, and another is an apherist who should be dealt with by law enforcement authorities. With regard to the suggestions, there is a suggestion to hear the report again, such as two months later. Thank you.
ParlaMint-UA_2013-05-15-m0.u133	That's a specific offer. Yes, Motherland said. "Freedom" now. And then there's the hit and the communists. Suggestions, please. Merchant, turn it on, turn on the microphone. Please, tell me.
ParlaMint-UA_2013-05-15-m0.u134	Dear Mr. Head, honourable deputies, to the extent that I am not mistaken, unfortunately, the law does not provide for a procedure for the resignation of members of the Nacraada, at least on the quota of the Supreme Council, if their report is not approved. It is clear that there are representatives of all factions who do not support the Nacra’s report and condemn its activity. So there's a very specific offer. I would like to remind you that we have refused to hold a parliamentary hearing in digital language, which today concerns every Ukrainian who watches television and listens to radio. So it's number one. Go back to considering the possibility of holding parliamentary hearings, within which we will once again hear the Nacrada report and give them a proper assessment. And consider the possibility of not approving this report of the resignation of members of the National Council for Television and Radio Broadcasting, which are assigned to the Supreme Council. Thank you.
ParlaMint-UA_2013-05-15-m0.u135	Irina Heratschenko, please, strike faction.
ParlaMint-UA_2013-05-15-m0.u136	Dear colleagues, this is a coalition that we've been discussing for 20 minutes now in the hall, created by our efforts with you, because it was an offer of opposition to address the issue of decision-making with discussion. As a result of the discussion, we've fallen apart and now we've come back to the debate about our decision, which is a nonsensus. I have a specific proposition, Vladimir Vasilovich, let's go now, we're entering a colossal conflict. We failed to perform our duties, we did not fail this Nacrada report and we did not accept it. Let's go back to that vote now. There were such precedents in the hall. Let's each of us do their job today, and we'll be honest to say that this Nakrad, it doesn't work professionally. And by the way, thank you very much to my colleagues from the Party of the Profile Committee, who also gave this objective assessment. Three is bad. Excuse me, you're telling us about the team of professionals. It has to work in a great way, in a worse way than four. But it's not a three-way. And we're going to give this Nacradi not an evaluation, but we're going to say good-bye, and we're going to assign a professional Nacradu, at least our fourth. That's my offer.
ParlaMint-UA_2013-05-15-m0.u137	A party of regions, Rudzkowski and Communists, and we will conclude our consideration of this issue. We can't find an understanding. We have considered, voted on the grounds of the vote expressed, we will move on. Please, the Rudzkov People's Deputy.
ParlaMint-UA_2013-05-15-m0.u138	Dear colleagues, we see that we do not have a common position when we discuss this issue again and listen to the National Council. I have a proposal right now, realizing that the issue is important, it bothers all factions not to put this question to a vote right now before lunch. Put the matter to a vote and be determined this week, whether on Thursday or Friday, by reaching a compromise between the factions. Perhaps ask questions and listen to the advice, such as in the autumn session. But once again, we can't move and we won't even include her listening in the plan for the next month and a half, because a lot of questions have accumulated in our work. Thank you. Let us seek compromise and realize that the matter needs to be resolved wisely.
ParlaMint-UA_2013-05-15-m0.u139	Please, Peter Mikolaiovich.
ParlaMint-UA_2013-05-15-m0.u140	Simonenko, the Communist faction. Dear colleagues, I wish to inform voters today that the report of the National Council for Television and Broadcasting in the Supreme Council is trying to turn the oligarchic clans. For you to understand, every single one of you, respected TV players, our constituents, you just need to know who each channel belongs to. If you call them names here, it's names, no matter what flags the political will come to Parliament. It was the oligarchs who seized the information space. It is therefore money, not the content of the transfers. It is about who among them will be richer than how our people will be wiser and better informed. Next. The resignation of the Nacsuet itself today will not solve anything for the simple reason that we must consider public information policy and deprive the oligarchs today of the right to enter into their minds, minds, especially of the young generation, their interests, which are all about, at all costs, profit and not people.
ParlaMint-UA_2013-05-15-m0.u141	I didn't hear what the suggestions were. There was another offer to make. The last sentence is to hold parliamentary hearings on this issue in the second half of the year. As long as you can.? We say the rules. We have made decisions, and we cannot conclude our consideration of the matter. I'm asking Vladimir Mikhailovich Litvina. Proposal, Vladimir Mikhailovich.
ParlaMint-UA_2013-05-15-m0.u142	Thank you. Vladimir Vasilovich, distinguished colleagues! According to the Rules, when the Supreme Council of Ukraine did not approve of the National Council report, the decision was not taken and there was no need to go back to the matter. The suggestion was, if I am not mistaken, by Peter Mikolaiovich, to hear more comprehensively about the state of the information sphere in Ukraine. To have the committee prepare the matter for consideration, and in the process of its consideration, it will be possible to return to the assessment of the activities of the National Council. Or commission a committee to prepare a plan to deal with the issue, and in particular, there may be a need to listen to the members of the National Council who have been delegated there on behalf of the Supreme Council of Ukraine. And everything else is going to be a political confrontation. Thank you.
ParlaMint-UA_2013-05-15-m0.u143	Zuravsky.
ParlaMint-UA_2013-05-15-m0.u144	Dear colleagues, the question is exhausted, and we will continue in accordance with the Rules. Thank you.
ParlaMint-UA_2013-05-15-m0.u145	Ladies and gentlemen, let the committee consider, make a decision, make proposals, and we will return to that question. The final consideration of this issue is another matter. The draft decree deals with the establishment of a temporary commission of inquiry by the Supreme Council of Ukraine on the investigation of violations of legislation in public procurement, the inefficient use of state funds, and the abuse of office by officials of the Ministry of Health of Ukraine, other state enterprises, institutions and organizations in the field of health and pharmaceuticals. How will we consider this question? Short-term. I would like to put the matter to the vote on a reduced basis. Please vote. [[12:49:10]] For-179 Against – 44, held – 43, did not vote – 129. Decision taken. I would like to invite you to speak to the rapporteur of the Ukrainian national deputy, Andrija Volodymyrovich Ivanchuk. And then from the committee. You have two minutes, please.
ParlaMint-UA_2013-05-15-m0.u146	Andrew Ivanchuk, All-Ukrainian Motherland Union, Fatherland faction. Dear Head! Dear National Deputies! I would like to draw your attention to the fact that health care is the most painful issue in our society today. We know, as the Ministry of Health works for today, that there is no health care in Ukraine. The mortality rate is twice the European mortality rate. The disease rate is rising in all age groups, and this list can continue and continue. In this regard, it is vital to examine the activities of the Ministry of Health, especially in the area of procurement. There are many violations that we cannot react to. And they're talking about party membership. I'd like to ask, honourable Members, this is not about parties, this is about life and health. I'll start with the quality of the medicine. About 10 percent of Ukraine’s counterfeit pharmacological production is contraactive. Think about it: 1 out of every 10 pack of drugs is fake. It was just last year that more than 20 people died from non-applicable drugs. more than 20 Ukrainians died. We remember the lethal use of hepatitis vaccines to children. The Ministry has little chance of preventing these abuses, but it has spread corruption, and we get information that the Ministry for State Money, which was spent in the past year, is the position where drugs are purchased three times as expensive as they are sold in pharmacies. . So I'm asking you very much, given the above, please support the creation initiative, and I'd like to say separately that at the moment there have been proposals for inclusion in the composition of the regional commissions, and I'd like you to take this into account, and from the Communist Party. Honorable national deputies, our children, parents, relatives, and loved ones. Please support the establishment of this committee so that we can find out whether these facts are true — the repeated complaints that are coming before us on the committee today. Thank you for your attention.
ParlaMint-UA_2013-05-15-m0.u147	Thank you, sit down. I would like to ask the chairman of the Committee on Rules of Procedure, the deputy ethics of Maquienko Volodymira Volodymyrovich.
ParlaMint-UA_2013-05-15-m0.u148	Dear Vladimir Vasilovich, distinguished national deputies of Ukraine! The Committee is informed that the draft of the Supreme Council of Ukraine Regulation on the Establishment of a Follow-up Interim Commission of the Supreme Council of Ukraine on the Investigation of Violations of Legislation in State Procurement, Inefficient Use of Public Funds and Abuse of Service by Officials of the Ministry of Health of Ukraine, Other State Enterprises, Institutions and Organizations in the Field of Health and Pharmaceuticals, submitted by the National Deputy of Ukraine, Ivanchuk, and others at number 2690 from 02.04. In 2013 At the same time, it is proposed that 12 national deputies of Ukraine be selected from the faction of the All-Ukrainian Union of the Fathers—Dirovy Anatolia Borisovich the head of the commission, Don Tetjan Anatolyovna and Petrenko Pavel Dmitrovic the members of the commission; from the faction of the All-Ukrainian Union of Freedom—Heleway Oleg Ivanovic the deputy head of the commission; from the faction of the political party "Kittalia Klitschka" – Ionov Mary Mikolaynov, member of the commission; from the Deputate factions of the Party of the Fraternity of the region – Vaszczuk Katerina Timofijina, Juravska Vitalija Stanislavovica, Misik Volodim Juryrovič, Motovič – Imoctovija Polikarovič – Imoct Oxandrich Andrič Thank you for your attention.
ParlaMint-UA_2013-05-15-m0.u149	Are there willing to share in the discussion? Please register with the faction. People's MP Melnik, please.
ParlaMint-UA_2013-05-15-m0.u150	Eugene Melnik, the All-Ukrainian Freedom Union. Please pass the word to Oleg Helvey.
ParlaMint-UA_2013-05-15-m0.u151	Pass it on, please.
ParlaMint-UA_2013-05-15-m0.u152	Oleg Heleway, the All-Ukrainian Freedom Union. The lack of transparency in the Ministry of Health’s tendering system is obvious and therefore a commission is necessary. We have many facts about the registration of fictitious drugs, which simply do not exist in nature, for their further participation in tenders and for the creation of what is the so-called, fictitious competitive price, with what is the projected result. We also come up with many facts simply by buying inadequacies. There are also many cases where no one needs medical equipment that just stands there and rusts on the doors of many hospitals, but it's even more impressive -- it's the difference between the price of the manufacturer and the price at which the equipment and the medicine are bought. At times, it is multiplied by just threefold, and given that taxes on added value are not paid when imported drugs and medical equipment are imported into Ukraine, it is clear that there are huge costs of offshore accounts. Maybe that's why our Ukrainians long ago forgot what free medicine is, which is so guaranteed by the Constitution. We warn you not to joke and play with the health of the nation and the patience of the people. Glory to Ukraine!
ParlaMint-UA_2013-05-15-m0.u153	The Fatherland faction. Bondarenko, please.
ParlaMint-UA_2013-05-15-m0.u154	Vladimir Bondarenko, faction of the united opposition of Fatherskin, the city of Kiev. Dear friends, I think we're all witnessing how medicine becomes a major business. From a long time ago, there was always money for the health of people, but especially cynically, it happened, for example, with the "medicine of the future," when the whole country was raising money for a famous woman, at the time the first lady of the country. And where they've been, we don't know yet. There are some buildings in which money seems to have been deposited, but no one can tell who is reporting for that money. Nobody. The second issue that has recently arisen in Kiev is the prompt proposal of the Kiev City Public Administration to transfer the Kiev City Centre of Heart to the state level. In his time, at Alexander Omelchenk, the city of Kiev borrowed a very expensive loan — about $50 million in translation into that money. And in time, this loan was repaid at the expense of Kiev’s budget, i.e. at the expense of China’s taxes. So, recently, not long ago, the Kyiv City Administration, as a result of serious pressure on the MPs, manipulations and threats, has forced this Center of Heart to become a state level, and it is managed by someone today from private doctors who have apparently turned all of this into such a serious system of profit on the problem. No cyanide with heart disease can turn to this center on a free basis, even though it was planned when it was built. We lost social protection functions today in such areas as diabetes, prosthetic joints, blindness, and so forth. So we need to consider where huge money, state money, people are going, and today we don't know it. You need to know, we're parliament. Thank you.
ParlaMint-UA_2013-05-15-m0.u155	It's a strike. Please, Rosenko, a national MP.
ParlaMint-UA_2013-05-15-m0.u156	Paul Rosenco, Vitaly Clitchka Faction. Well, look, here's the country's most respected national MPs that we have today. We're every day. Hundreds of letters have been written to us about the closing down of health facilities. The country’s FAPs are closing down, the number of doctors is shrinking, and doctors working in these institutions are often not paid their wages in Ukraine. In fact, the construction of OHMADDIT and other health facilities has been halted. To all of our appeals and appeals to the government in the Cabinet of Ministers of Ukraine, there is usually one answer: Sorry, we have no funds; the government’s costs are insufficient for quality health care. But, of course, how can these funds be sufficient when they are fundamentally stolen at the level of the same ministry? We see, on the other hand, when in the media we have mass examples of the untransparent solicitation of the Ministry of Health, when they win tenders for the structure, particularly for the supply of medicines in Ukraine that have no relation to the production of these drugs, they don't have any medical products at all, companies that are registered in Cypriot offshores and where public funds are washed away. So it's obvious that the impact faction under these conditions supports the draft Ordinance on the creation of a commission of inquiry. And in general, if you take a government car today as a whole, these commissions can be created by every ministry, because every ministry today is a breeding ground for corruption and bribery in Ukraine. So clearly, the impact faction supports the creation of this temporary commission of inquiry.
ParlaMint-UA_2013-05-15-m0.u157	Party of regions, Žuravsky.
ParlaMint-UA_2013-05-15-m0.u158	Dear colleagues! I would like to draw attention to the fact that in the past 2012 health expenditure in the general budget was over 50 billion dollars, nearly 7 billion more than in 2011. At the same time, according to the State Treasury Service, in 2012 funds for such budget programs remained unused. The specialized health care provided by health - care facilities is nearly 21 million dollars. Providing medical facilities with funds in the fight against AIDS, tuberculosis, childhood and adult oncology — over 45 million dollars. The reconstruction and expansion of the National Cancer Institute is 61 million dollars, etc. And this is 30 to 40 percent of the annual health budget deficit! This is unacceptable and is evidence of a lack of control by the Ministry of Health.
ParlaMint-UA_2013-05-15-m0.u159	Let me finish. Finish up.
ParlaMint-UA_2013-05-15-m0.u160	This is unacceptable and is evidence of a lack of control by the Ministry of Health over the use of public health funds. And the last sentence. You can’t make money in another person’s trouble, in the health of your own citizens. Thank you.
ParlaMint-UA_2013-05-15-m0.u161	Thank you. Peter Mikolaiovich Simonenko, please.
ParlaMint-UA_2013-05-15-m0.u162	Simonenko, the Communist faction. The faction will vote in favour of the establishment of a commission, on the basis that it is not only necessary to consider today, but most importantly to put order in this area. [[B in m in s a l in]] We have witnessed with you that public policy, officially an oligarch policy, has been closing down rural and district hospitals for 20 years. Today, the health system is being destroyed as such because it has become the target of enriching certain clans that are triggering public funds. Moreover, the future generation is being killed by the use of bad - quality drugs. And among the measures that need to be taken today is, of course, funding as a public system, a full health system, which is the return of pharmacies to public and communal property. Why? Because pharmacies have become the target of drug sales, forging drugs, and selling what could be three times cheaper on three roads. The Company's faction therefore insists on a comprehensive review.
ParlaMint-UA_2013-05-15-m0.u163	Let me finish.
ParlaMint-UA_2013-05-15-m0.u164	The Communist faction would support the project and suggested moving away from a thorough review of these issues, in particular public procurement. We have to move the Ministry, that's clear today. Most importantly, as a result of our consideration, we will draw the right conclusions, not once again, to ease the oligarchs today to work for the people of Ukraine. Today, medicine works in principle — who is at war and who is at home. And many citizens suffer, many honest doctors, and unfortunately, the public system provides an opportunity to enrich certain oligarchs. Thank you.
ParlaMint-UA_2013-05-15-m0.u165	Postfaction deputies, Labunska, one minute at a time, and Lazko. Please, the people's representative of Labunska. And we'll vote.
ParlaMint-UA_2013-05-15-m0.u166	Good afternoon! Labunsky, 63 constituency. Volodymyr Vasilovich, I would like to draw your attention as Head of the Supreme Council and ask the entire Chamber. When you look at the rules of the Rules, when you've abandoned almost 30 non-fractional deputies who are not part of any factions, you've abandoned the powers provided for in the Ukrainian Law on the Status of the People's Deputies. This is also true of opposition, and that is true of power. We have made a request to the Constitutional Court, but unfortunately we cannot gather a number of signatures to recognize the unconstitutional rules of the Rules. You don't respect the Constitution or the people who elected us as deputies. That's the first one. The other one. As far as the commission's work is concerned. Again, we cannot even take part in the work of such investigation committees that affect the lives of our electors as well. I, an MP for the third time, want to say that this is a very painful question and that we need to look at it more broadly. Because there's a purchase plan. Look, we're all here.
ParlaMint-UA_2013-05-15-m0.u167	Finish up.
ParlaMint-UA_2013-05-15-m0.u168	Every day we face the fact that one or the other drugs are missing, that children with diseases such as phenylketonuria are, unfortunately, not one year left without certain ones. Eating. And that's actually the question, they can't get it later, because they're, excuse me, they're turning into plants. More than that, who assigns any kind of vaccination? See what a terrible situation with hepatitis is today? Today, doctors are not allowed to ask the general question that it is from the inoculation of children born today that they are sick. And that's why I'm asking to be included in this commission and to pay attention, and to protect our rights as MPs, elected by the people, elected by our constituents. Thank you.
ParlaMint-UA_2013-05-15-m0.u169	Please, just a minute. People's deputy Lazko.
ParlaMint-UA_2013-05-15-m0.u170	Oleg Lazko, Radical Party. I want to support my colleague Labunsky's non-fractional and I want to draw attention once again to the leadership and leadership of the Supreme Council, and to the Parliamentary Hall that non-fractional national MPs have the same rights as those who join factions. Humans voted for us and we ask that we respect our rights. As far as the subject is concerned. Today, the Ministry of Health is the most corrupt structure in Ukraine, the most corrupt. And for no one is a mystery, each of us national MPs receives hundreds of petitions from people asking for help for oncology, for treatment every day. We're talking to the Ministry of Health -- some receipts. How many children die without waiting for proper medical care in time. Therefore, I believe that a commission on corruption in the Ministry of Health should be established. The Minister of Health is to resign immediately during the consideration of corruption. And corruption must be overcome by the Ministry of Health.
ParlaMint-UA_2013-05-15-m0.u171	Thank you. Ladies and gentlemen, we have a decision to make. The representative of Labunska submitted her candidacy to the interim commission. Can we include her in the verdict? Can we? Yeah. I am voting on the draft Decree (Registration No. 2690) on the establishment of the Interim Investigation Commission of the Supreme Council of Ukraine on the investigation of violations of legislation in public procurement, the inefficient use of public funds and abuse by officials of the Ministry of Health of Ukraine, other state enterprises, institutions and organizations in the field of health and pharmaceuticals. Along with the commission of the representative of Labunsk. For adoption as a basis and as a whole. Please vote. [[13:08:32]] For 205 Against - 3, held - 23, not voted - 157. Decision taken. The factions. Region Party 12, Fatherland 76, Vitaly Klicka Strike 35, Freedom 33, Company 31, non-factional 18. Let us now consider first - reading issues. The draft Law (Registration No. 2107) on amending certain Ukrainian price (tariff) laws is being introduced. How will we view it? I'll bet on the vote for the cut-off, please. [[13:09:36]] For 186 Against 35, held – 41, not voted – 124. Decision taken. National Deputy of Ukraine Paul Petrovich Korz, author of the bill, reports. Then he's head of the committee.
ParlaMint-UA_2013-05-15-m0.u172	Dear Mr. Golovo, honourable members of the people, the proposed draft Ukrainian Law addresses the issue of social justice, ensuring the proper level of social protection of low-security population groups while setting prices and tariffs on electricity and natural gas for the population. Yes, the bill creates a legislative basis for setting prices and tariffs for the population, depending on the amount of electricity and gas consumption, allows government authorities that regulate public prices and tariffs to take into account the level of income of the population. The bill also deals with improving consumer consumption. Through the introduction of a procedure for the approval of the Cabinet of Ministers for electricity and natural gas for the living needs of the population. As a result of the previous review, the bill received positive conclusions from the Chief Scientific and Expert Office of the Supreme Council, the committees, the conclusions of the Cabinet of Ministers of Ukraine on the possibility of adopting it on the first reading as a basis. Thank you.
ParlaMint-UA_2013-05-15-m0.u173	Sit down, thank you. Economic Policy Committee head Andry Volodymyrovich Ivanchuk, please.
ParlaMint-UA_2013-05-15-m0.u174	Dear Vladimir Vasilovich! Dear fellow MPs! The Economic Policy Committee considered the bill on April 18, 2013. Huh? Excuse me?
ParlaMint-UA_2013-05-15-m0.u175	Consider the draft Ukrainian Law on Amendments to Certain Ukrainian Laws on the Setting of Prices by People’s Deputies Korgem (Registration No. 2107). The purpose of the bill is to amend certain laws of Ukraine. It's about energy, about the principles of the functioning of the natural gas market, about prices and pricing, and about natural monopolies. It's geared towards defining the body that sets prices and tariffs on electricity and natural gas for municipal and household needs, and it sets out how to set government regulated prices to a level that is lower than economically sound. We got a positive conclusion from the Chief Scientific and Scientific Administration. The Cabinet of Ministers also recommends that the bill be supported. The committee decided to recommend to the Supreme Council the adoption of the bill in the first reading on the basis of registration number 2107. Please be supportive.
ParlaMint-UA_2013-05-15-m0.u176	Thank you. Have a seat. Please sign up for discussion by factions. A party of regions, Glazunov.
ParlaMint-UA_2013-05-15-m0.u177	I ask you to give the floor to the National Deputy of Ukraine, Andrija Ponomarov.
ParlaMint-UA_2013-05-15-m0.u178	Please pass Ponmarie on.
ParlaMint-UA_2013-05-15-m0.u179	Andrew Ponomarov, faction of the Party of the Regions, Donetskin Dear Vladimir Vasilovich! Dear National Deputies! A bill has been submitted to amend some of Ukraine’s pricing (tariff) laws. Entered by National Deputy Korgem, called upon to clearly determine the mandate of the National Commission, which regulates national energy regulations for the setting of electricity prices and tariffs and natural gas for public utilities. Set the order for setting government regulated prices to be lower than the economic-based size and determine whether the national collegiate authorities are subject to State price regulation and their respective powers. The adoption of this draft law will improve the legal regulation of the powers of the public authorities in the setting of electricity prices and tariffs, and natural gas for the general public’s utilities, including the setting of government regulated prices (tariffs). The bill does not require expenditure from the State budget, so please support the draft law introduced and adopt it as a basis. Thank you.
ParlaMint-UA_2013-05-15-m0.u180	Freedom Union, National MP Melnik.
ParlaMint-UA_2013-05-15-m0.u181	Eugene Melnik, the All-Ukrainian Freedom Union, please give the floor to MP Michael Golovko.
ParlaMint-UA_2013-05-15-m0.u182	Pass it on, please.
ParlaMint-UA_2013-05-15-m0.u183	Deputies! Mikhail Golovko, the All-Ukrainian Freedom Union. 164 constituency, Ternopilska. Unfortunately, it does, but it is practical that life goes ahead of legislation, and that is why we today have to adjust our legislation somewhere. In this bill, we remove legal gaps that have arisen somewhere at the legislative level and specify the mandate of the NCRE, which sets prices and tariffs on electricity and natural gas for the utilities, household needs of the population of Ukraine and determines the order of setting government regulated prices to a lower extent than the economically sound size. So today, so that we don’t be hostage - stricken local communities, because unfortunately, we do. people can't go into the hot season because there's debt to the heat utility for gas supply, so, accordingly, taking into account these proposals that we have to support in the first reading, and the faction of the All-U.S. Freedom will only support it on the one condition that before the second reading you're the proposals that we've made before the amendment of this bill will be taken into account, and then we'll support it in general. And now we're going to support this bill in the first reading. Thank you.
ParlaMint-UA_2013-05-15-m0.u184	The Fatherland faction, Yavorowski, National MP.
ParlaMint-UA_2013-05-15-m0.u185	Respectable Society! He's fighting the Kiev Majorate Vladimir Bondarenko, and I'm not going to take his place. Give him your word.
ParlaMint-UA_2013-05-15-m0.u186	Bondarenko.
ParlaMint-UA_2013-05-15-m0.u187	Vladimir Bondarenko, faction of the united opposition of Fatherland. Dear friends, I would not have been so easy to comply with this law. Recently, in Bulgaria, electricity tariffs were raised, the whole country collapsed, and the government was thrown into the trash. We today have a government that wants to focus its responsibility on the transfer of certain functions to national commissions. I was the author of one of the committees voted in favour of the Hall, which is about utilities. But what I'm saying is that we don't have clear service standards today. We have strange electricity prices today: up to 800 kilowatts of one price after 800 second prices. There are three prices for gas. It's an extremely wide field of manipulation. And when citizens cease to be able to pay high tariffs, often crammed, often designed, so that companies operating today will get their profits in full. Today, we are adopting a law that says from the state budget and from the local budgets that we're going to block this hole that's coming out. But that hole came into existence artificially, it's not calculated, it's not scientifically based, so today the tariffs in Ukraine are set in most of the ceilings, for example, or on the calculation schedule, in Kiev, the consumption of cold water is 3.6 cubic metres per month, and they're taken into separate apartments at 16, 16 cubic meters, 15 cubic meters and so on. We've got about twice as much sewerage in Kiev today as water is coming into the apartment. That's all that's surprising, but somehow that's not what the National Commissions are paying attention to. So I'd like this law to be considered in the Supreme Council, but I'm not excited about it, so we need to work on it. So do not let God accept him in the first reading. I'm asking him.
ParlaMint-UA_2013-05-15-m0.u188	The Communist faction, Peter Mikolaiovich Simonenko, please.
ParlaMint-UA_2013-05-15-m0.u189	Simonenko, the Communist faction. Respectable voters! Given the content of the law, we will vote in favour. But I would like to draw your attention to our principled position, the factions of the Company. First, today we must understand that tariffs are set not for the benefit of the consumer, i.e. the common people and the Ukrainian producer, but for the benefit of the owner. These are mechanisms for enriching a certain group of people. Secondly, I would like to remind you that in the communists for electricity in rural areas, you paid one keel per kilowatt-hour, four kopecks per month, 18 kopecks per month per person, once again, not a thousand cubic metres of gas, but one person. Thus, today, a real issue has arisen to protect the interests of our citizens and the normal pricing policy, to restore energy to public property and to remove from all gas wells and oil from all oligarchs, then we will have to deal with pricing. Because NCRE is performing the task of a major business today, not for the protection of our ordinary citizens.
ParlaMint-UA_2013-05-15-m0.u190	Everyone, have you spoken? One minute, please, from the faction of the Party of the Regions.
ParlaMint-UA_2013-05-15-m0.u191	Dear Vladimir Vasiljevic, distinguished colleagues, we all say that the market is not chaos; elements of government regulation must be integrated into the economic structure of the State. And how this law aims to ensure that, within reasonable limits, the State makes the best use of price regulation instruments. We have a double standard: it is purely economic that we understand that it is necessary to do so, and it is politically unfavourable. Let us, therefore, not be politicians, but be realistic and pragmatic, and vote in favour of this law, which will indeed today have a real impact on the country's energy market. Thank you.
ParlaMint-UA_2013-05-15-m0.u192	Strike Squad, People's Deputy Pinzenic, please.
ParlaMint-UA_2013-05-15-m0.u193	Dear Vladimir Vasilovich, distinguished national MPs, the bill seems quite simple. That's not really true. For a long time, price functions were placed on the Cabinet of Ministers of Ukraine. Over the past 10 years, many regulatory functions, including prices, have been transferred from government to special regulators. One such organ is NCRE. These organs, including the National Liaison Commission, are not subordinated to the Cabinet of Ministers, nor should they be subordinated. The draft law de facto restores the subordination of the NCRE Cabinet of Ministers because the draft law stipulates that prices will be set by a commission in agreement with the Cabinet of Ministers. The question is, Who then sets prices: government or NCRE? You can go back to the system when the Cabinet of Ministers approves, but then you can eliminate NCRE. Or it should be the authority of NCRE, which should not agree with the Cabinet of Ministers.
ParlaMint-UA_2013-05-15-m0.u194	Let me finish.
ParlaMint-UA_2013-05-15-m0.u195	For these reasons, our faction refrains from supporting the bill.
ParlaMint-UA_2013-05-15-m0.u196	I'll bet you a vote. Please prepare for the vote. I'm betting on a draft bill (registration 2107) to amend some of Ukraine's pricing (tariff) laws for adoption as a basis. People's deputies, please vote. [[13:22:56]] For 293 Against 0, held – 35, not voted – 57. Decision taken. The factions. Region Party - 161, Fatherland - 52, Vitaly Klicka - 0, Freedom - 35, Company - 31, non-fractional - 14. The draft Act (No. 1175) amending certain Ukrainian legislative acts to ensure the sustainability of strategic energy enterprises is submitted for consideration. How will we view it? I'll bet you a reduced vote on this issue. Please make up your mind to the MPs. [[13:23:59]] For 169 Against 39, held – 51, not voted – 127. Decision taken. Please report to the Committee on Fuel and Energy, Nuclear Policy and Nuclear Security of Pavel Petrovich Korzh. Please. from the committee, please.
ParlaMint-UA_2013-05-15-m0.u197	Dear Chairman! Dear National Deputies! The most important problem with the operation of the state's wholesale electricity market is the payment of electricity debt, a significant portion of which was created during the period of the structural reconstruction of the state's economy, when fuel and energy companies carried out obligations regarding the supply of energy without proper and timely payment and tariffs, which did not always cover the eligible costs for the fuel plant. The main purpose of the adoption of the law is, inter alia, to continue the moratorium on bankruptcy proceedings against creditors in respect of undertakings of the fuel and energy complex that have been entered into the register by extending the period of validity of the mechanisms provided for in the Ukrainian Law of 23.06.2005. In the old edition of Law 2711. The bill also provides for changes to the accounting date on which each participant is credit and receivables. The Committee on Fuel and Energy Complex, Nuclear Policy and Nuclear Security has decided to submit to the Supreme Council a draft of the Ukrainian Law amending certain Ukrainian legislative acts to ensure the sustainability of strategic energy enterprises (registration No. 1175) from 26. 12th - 2012 But recommending it to the Supreme Council of Ukraine in the first reading and generally as a law. Thank you.
ParlaMint-UA_2013-05-15-m0.u198	People's deputies, please register to discuss this matter with the faction. Freedom Union, faction, Peace.
ParlaMint-UA_2013-05-15-m0.u199	Dear Head! Deputies! Paul Petrovich, with all due respect to you, we must note that this bill no longer meets the tasks for which it is assigned. Because from year to year, the Supreme Council adopts the same bill, which then becomes law. Appropriately, the inadequacy of an adopted basic law is covered by half - west action. But never did the half - ways cure the disease but only drove it deep. In our view, the best solution to this issue is the Law banning the privatization of strategic enterprises, including through bankruptcy. Because if we follow the term that the same laws were passed every year, we can see that we were protecting state property at first. Today, as if we are trying to protect the state property, there are 10, 20, sometimes 25 percent. In fact, we give green light to the private structures that control these enterprises today, to go into debt, not to settle on their own liabilities, and to be completely free from any threat of liability. We should not allow these things to happen. We should amend the legislation in force by adopting other laws, not by amending the de facto laws adopted by the former Supreme Council. Therefore, our faction will not support this bill and believes that we should take other cardinal measures, I repeat, the Law banning the privatization of strategic enterprises. Thank you for your attention.
ParlaMint-UA_2013-05-15-m0.u200	The Fatherland faction, the Pashinski People's Deputy.
ParlaMint-UA_2013-05-15-m0.u201	Dear colleagues, the introduction of this bill, and it was initiated in 2005, by the government of Yulia Timoshenko, was due to the fact that frauds around state companies such as Energoat, Ukrhydroenergo have accumulated huge creditors' debt. All the courts have passed. And if anyone forgot, I'd like to remind you that the 340,000 dollar call was an attempt to declare Naek "Energot" bankrupt and to introduce an arbitrator. Everyone knows that we have this subtle form of privatization -- because of bankruptcy. When the irresponsible, being appointed by the Hakapetov courts, the arbitrators will manage the property of such enterprises as NEK Energoat, Naftogaz and all. I agree with the previous statement that this is, of course, neither reform nor panacea. But it is a guarantee that this fictitious debt, which is created there, and which, by the way, is consecrated by the entire judiciary branch of power, including the Supreme Court, so as not to give, not to allow, fictitious bankruptcy and the dissolution of state-owned enterprises, I want to emphasize, enterprises. I want to say again, and we voted in favour of this law for the previous six years in a row. He's been tested over time. There's no corruption element here. And I urge all my colleagues to support this bill.
ParlaMint-UA_2013-05-15-m0.u202	A party of regions, Herman Hanna Mikolayevna.
ParlaMint-UA_2013-05-15-m0.u203	Please pass the word to Anatoly Goncharov, National Deputy.
ParlaMint-UA_2013-05-15-m0.u204	Turn on the Goncharov microphone. Please.
ParlaMint-UA_2013-05-15-m0.u205	Dear Vladimir Vasilovich, honourable MPs, miners of the central district of Donbas are asking us to support the bill, and why? First of all, the miners of the central area of Donbas thank us for adopting Bill 1106, which stopped the bankruptcy of the coal sector in March. And so the adoption of this law 1175 will unlock financial accounts, allow our miners to work, extract coal, sell it, buy materials and equipment for these costs, pay wages, and include the debts they have. That's why I'm calling on the people's deputies to support this bill. Thank you.
ParlaMint-UA_2013-05-15-m0.u206	Faction Impact, People's Deputy Rosenko, please.
ParlaMint-UA_2013-05-15-m0.u207	Well, unfortunately, Paul Rosenco, Faction Impact, we want to say that this bill doesn't solve any questions, and we're forced to get more and more involved every year either in the restructuring or in the debt write-off. And it's as if the noble mission of this bill can be seen. People don't pay, businesses have debts, we cheat debts. But then let's essentially go into the question. Why doesn't the population pay? Well, look what we have today in the housing industry. Today, the debt owed to businesses amounts to $14 billion. In the first three months of 2013, the debt of the population to the relevant service providers increased by 10 percent. This just shows that the debt of the population for residential services is evidence of a real decline in the income of the citizens. They have to spend the money they make on the goods of the first need, not on housing services. That's why the State's job is to create these conditions for paying salaries, pensions, social assistance, so that the population can pay for housing services. Unfortunately, we don't have that today. That's why the strike faction always calls for fighting the cause. Combating poverty in Ukraine, not overcoming the consequences. And especially to Vladimir Vasilovich, the faction will vote against. There was an offer to vote in the first reading and in general. Given that we have specific comments to the bill, we propose to vote only on the first reading. And don't ask questions.
ParlaMint-UA_2013-05-15-m0.u208	Thank you. I'm asking you, the Communist faction, the people's MP Marmazov.
ParlaMint-UA_2013-05-15-m0.u209	Thank you. Well, our faction will support this bill. He's really important. And this is where Pashinsky was right about the problems at TEC. However, a technical omission arose and was established in the discussion. This is in paragraph 6 of article 3, paragraph 3.7, where the date of 1 January 2012 remains. That is, debt for 2012. Well, that doesn't fit the purpose of the law. Therefore, this article "January 1, 2012" should be replaced by "January 1, 2013". The Committee supported this, this can be confirmed by Pavel Petrovich, who is standing next to me. Well, it can be adopted as a whole, as the draft law was delayed and long overdue, it had to be adopted at the beginning of the year. Thank you.
ParlaMint-UA_2013-05-15-m0.u210	Thank you. Please prepare for the vote of the People's Deputies. Let's move on to making a decision. I am voting on the draft Law 1175 amending certain Ukrainian legislative acts to ensure the stable functioning of strategic energy enterprises, with an amendment, technical amendment, Marmazov, which replaces the 2012 deadline for 2013 as a basis and as a whole. Please vote. [[13:36:27]] For 233 Against 68, held-9, did not vote 63. Decision taken. The factions. Region Party - 158, Fatherland - 32, Vitaly Call - 0, Freedom - 0, Company - 31, non-fractional - 12. A draft Act (No. 1179) is under consideration to amend some Ukrainian legislation on ensuring equality of rights between single mothers and single parents. How will we view it? No discussion?
ParlaMint-UA_2013-05-15-m0.u211	No discussion? Roger that. Please report to the National Deputy of Ukraine, Irina Grigorovna Coast.
ParlaMint-UA_2013-05-15-m0.u212	Good afternoon! Irina Coast, electoral district 169, Kharkiv. Dear Chief! Dear National Deputies! For your consideration, it is proposed to amend some Ukrainian legislation on equality between single mothers and single parents. The essence of this bill is very simple, the father and mother, if they are raising a child by themselves, have and should have the same rights. Dear colleagues! I have the privilege of communicating with a unique person, Alexander Mazur, the man who heads the organization of single parents. For quite a while, I've been keeping an eye on his organization, and I have to say that I'm quite impressed by the feats of men who raise one, two, and sometimes four children on their own. And I want to say that there's a lot of sincerity, mutual assistance and hope in these people. There are also such men in my district in Kharkiv, and they don't ask for help, they're just talking about their injustices -- it's not an acceptable injustice when we protect only women who stay with a child and don't notice the same problems in men. Finally, giving them the right requires not only human compassion, but also European practice and gender standards. The bill envisages comparing the rights of single parents and single mothers with regard to the primary provision of housing, additional employment guarantees, and the right to appeal directly to the court for a refusal to accept employment. I would like to draw your attention, dear colleagues, to the fact that a similar comparison in the rights of single parents and single mothers has already taken place with regard to extra leave and financial assistance for children. In Ukraine, only over 250,000 single parents are officially registered, most of them permanently lack funds because employers are intimidated by the status of a single parent. Hence, they need adequate governmental support. The draft law proposes to make changes to Housing.
ParlaMint-UA_2013-05-15-m0.u213	Let me finish.
ParlaMint-UA_2013-05-15-m0.u214	Thus, honourable national MPs, the adoption of the bill will not only ensure that single parents' rights are established at the level of single mothers, but also improve the lives of children without a mother. In fact, it will be a free charity action to restore social justice on your part. So I'm asking you to support this bill as a basis. Thank you for your attention.
ParlaMint-UA_2013-05-15-m0.u215	Thank you. A report from the committee, the head of the social and work subcommittee, by Svetlana Samueln. Please.
ParlaMint-UA_2013-05-15-m0.u216	We have witnessed with you the rare case of women fighting for the rights of men. And you know, I think there's not a single person in the room today, even among those who scream against this bill. Imagine, a lonely father, he must have the same rights as a single mother, he must first have the right to work, to housing, to go to court when his rights are violated for his children. In order not to delay your attention, I would like to ask you to support this bill because the Committee on Social Policy unanimously supported the consideration of this bill. Thank you, and let's support our dads.
ParlaMint-UA_2013-05-15-m0.u217	Thank you. Ladies and gentlemen, please prepare for the vote. I am voting on the draft Law 1179 amending some Ukrainian legislation on ensuring equality of rights between single mothers and single parents for adoption as a basis and as a whole. Please vote. [[13:41:58]] For 306 Against - 0, held - 0, did not vote - 62. Decision taken. Factions: Region Party 151, Fatherland 42, Vitalia Klicka, 31, Freedom 35, Company 31, non-fractional 16. Let's move on. Project. The draft Law (1220) amending article 107 of the Ukrainian Labour Code (for holidays and non-working days) is being considered. How will we consider this question? Please. We don't have anything to do with the full program, and we have one piece of law to consider. Please vote for the reduced procedure. [[13:43:07]] For-162 Against 33, held – 42, did not vote – 131. Decision taken. The head of the Committee on Social Policy and Work, Cibenko, Peter Stepanovich, acts as author of this law and from the committee. Please.
ParlaMint-UA_2013-05-15-m0.u218	Thank you. Dear colleagues, respected citizens of Ukraine, voters! Ukraine’s draft Act amending article 107 of the Ukrainian Labour Code (on holidays and non-working days) was designed to ensure that workers who receive monthly salaries and work on holidays and non-working days are properly paid if they are working more than a month’s workday. In its essence, the pay for work on a holiday, on a non-working day, should be seen as a reward for encouraging or compensatory pay, and adequate to the costs of employees as physiological – a person works beyond normal work and when he needs to rest, restore his strength and moral and psychological – time for personal life, family, and children is not spent on appointments. Instead, today’s employee is paid less, even less, than on a regular working day, at a double hourly or daily rate that has a negative impact on the performance of work and work discipline. It is proposed that the third part of article 107 of the Ukrainian Labour Code should be amended to take account of the wages paid on holidays and non-work days for workers who receive a monthly salary at the rate of twice the daily average hourly salary paid on top of the salary, if the work was carried out above the monthly standard of working time. I think it's an introduction. Such content will help the legislator achieve his goal of encouraging workers to work on a holiday and non-working day that improves pay conditions and will encourage employers to engage workers on holidays and non-working days only in exceptional cases. The implementation of the project’s standards will contribute to the preservation of human rights and freedoms in Ukraine. A request for support. The committee considered this bill at its meeting, and it was supported. We have all the positive feedback. I would like to add personally: if the Supreme Council meeting room supports this bill, I would suggest that it be accepted as a whole, because there is virtually nothing to work on here. Thank you.
ParlaMint-UA_2013-05-15-m0.u219	Do you want to talk about it? Yes. I'm asking you to sign up for the factions. Please, National Deputy of Cherniaków.
ParlaMint-UA_2013-05-15-m0.u220	Please pass the word to Zelik on to the People's Deputy.
ParlaMint-UA_2013-05-15-m0.u221	Dear colleagues, Ruslan Zelik, the All-Ukrainian Freedom Union. Indeed, this bill will allow those hired workers to receive more wages for working on non - work holidays. This will be the very motivation that the reporter said would be the motivation that they would be able to break up the family. Another moment. You know, we support this bill because it'll also give those employers the opportunity to think before they get involved in unemployment and employee holidays or not. Thank you. We'll support this bill.
ParlaMint-UA_2013-05-15-m0.u222	Thank you, Your Honor. I'm continuing my session for 15 minutes. Party of regions, Matvienkov, please.
ParlaMint-UA_2013-05-15-m0.u223	Matvienkov, 55th District, Mariupol. Dear colleagues! In order to speak on this bill, one thing must be understood. The wages are indeed one of the sickest, most serious subjects that are at the centre of attention today. That and well-being, that and well-being, are the standard of living for our workers. But before we talk about raising wages today, we need to understand that there are problems with non-payment of wages, there are problems with arrears in wages, there are some economic justifications that must lie at the heart of economic activity in order for the employer to be able to achieve this wage today. We therefore propose that the bill be submitted for further work in order to give the most careful consideration to the economic component of the bill and to make such a decision, on the basis of the economic, rather than the emotional, element. Thank you.
ParlaMint-UA_2013-05-15-m0.u224	Vitaly Klitschka, Rozenko, please.
ParlaMint-UA_2013-05-15-m0.u225	Please pass the word to Sergey Kaplin.
ParlaMint-UA_2013-05-15-m0.u226	People's Deputy Capplin.
ParlaMint-UA_2013-05-15-m0.u227	Vitaly Klitschka Faction, Sergey Kaplin, 144 constituency. How much are we going to take with you? to continue to make, not fundamental decisions relating to the fight against corruption, which are related to the creation of institutions that will really, truly destroy what the Ukrainian people are robbing today, but simply sit on this social spat before the Ukrainian citizen. Don't we respect our electorate so much that we don't think he understands that these little taxes don't in principle change the life of a Ukrainian citizen. Moreover, life in a Ukrainian woman’s village, a Ukrainian man who works two shifts in the morning at work first and then at home. Elevation. We will, of course, vote in favour of this bill. Of course we will. Just like yesterday we supported an increase in the actual pension by 10 dollars. But at the same time, we MPs who have been elected to Parliament should think about a simple Ukrainian person. And to think about the need to adopt fundamental, principle-based legislative acts that will contribute to the development of the Ukrainian economy. For that simple Ukrainian person to live in his life to feel, not human, but human! Instead of receiving a pension of 100 euros, I received a normal pension! Because she's no worse than a pensioner in Europe. To make a simple Ukrainian citizen feel free to be free in his country, not trampled by these officials on his back! Why is our economy still working today? Why has agriculture not yet been destroyed? But only for one reason. Because they turned pockets into Ukrainian peasants, metallurgies, miners, people west in eastern Ukraine! At the same time, we allow officials.
ParlaMint-UA_2013-05-15-m0.u228	Done? Did everyone say that? Please prepare yourself for making a decision. Deputies! I am voting on the draft Law 1220 amending article 107 of the Ukrainian Labour Code (for holidays and non-working days) for adoption as a basis. Please vote. [[13:51:25]] For 115 Against 2, held-41, did not vote-182. The decision is not taken. The factions. The Party of Regions is 9, Fatherland is 14, Vitalia Klicka is 25, Freedom is 33, the Company is 30, non-fractional is 4. It was an offer to send a committee and to work with this law. There was an offer for rereading the first reading. I'm working on a committee. Ladies and gentlemen, I would like to place the draft Law (1220) on the committee. Please vote. [[13:52:34]] For 245 Against 0, held – 7, not a vote – 89. Decision taken. The factions. Region Party - 134, Fatherland - 15, Vitaly Klicka - 26, Freedom - 33, Company - 30. And perhaps to this day we will consider the final question. The draft Act is being reviewed (registration number 1225) to amend certain legislative acts of Ukraine (for the definition of a term). How will we view it? Under a reduced procedure, an offer, please, MPs, to be determined. [[13:53:37]] For 139 Reports the author of the law. The decision is not taken. "For" – 139 – 31 – held – 41, no votes – 128. We're going to be looking at the full program. Please, National Deputy of Ukraine Jaroslav Mikhailovich Suhi. There's no problem, there are deputies.
ParlaMint-UA_2013-05-15-m0.u229	As far as history goes, it's a problem. Dear colleagues, it was created in May 2011 with the adoption of Law 3395 amending some Ukrainian legislation on the improvement of permit procedures. This "improvement" (in paws) has led to the emergence of another permit procedure in contravention of two articles of the basic Labour Protection Act – articles 33, 39. Now the employer under this law will have to take permission to start working in increased danger, to use machines, although the basic Law on Occupational Protection and the List of Permitted Documents indicates otherwise. The idea of eliminating the conflict between the laws belongs to a colleague, Ukrainian national deputy, Kseniya Mikhailni Lapinij. She and a similar bill came out in the sixth vocation. After consulting with Kseniya Mikhailna Ljapina, after consulting the ministries and departments, considering that the legislative idea has real social meaning and supports production, creating new jobs, I have introduced the bill at number 1225. What does he propose? First, it is necessary to amend article 33 of the Ukrainian Labour Protection Act, according to which the central authority of the executive branch, in charge of labour protection, issues, not initial work permits, but work permits. The other one. In addition, paragraph 48 of the list of documents of a permissive nature has been amended accordingly. Second, in article 39 of the Act, it is proposed to remove a rule that empowers officials of the central executive body to revoke or terminate the licenses and licences issued by them. The point is that article 21 of the Labour Protection Act contains the order of cancellation of the specified permits with an exhaustive list of reasons without the possibility of applying any arbitrary rules. And the last. Dear colleagues, if we can speak boldly from this rostrum today, what is the elimination of the contradictions that Kseniya Mikhailna Llapina referred to in the sixth call, on the protection of the work and on the Law on the List of Documents, it will certainly be possible to establish the only one, it will determine the only permit that is available to carry out the work of increased danger and the use of mechanisms and machines, will contribute to legislation in the area of the permit system, which in turn will lead to the creation of a favourable climate for production and new jobs in Ukraine. So, Reverend Vladimir Vasilovich, for the transcript. In the case of a replacement in the text of the bill, as the head of the Chief Scientific Authority, the bill of expression, this is for the transcript, the "central authority of the executive branch for the supervision of work" to the right association of the "central authority of the executive authority that implements the state policy in the field of labour protection" in an appropriate way. This bill can be adopted on both the basis and in general. Thank you for your attention.
ParlaMint-UA_2013-05-15-m0.u230	Ladies and gentlemen, you have three minutes to ask the reporter a question. Please. Any questions? How's it not? On the full program, let's look at it. No questions asked. Fellowship, head of the Subcommittee on Social Policy and the work of the Factory of Svetlana Samueln. You have five minutes.
ParlaMint-UA_2013-05-15-m0.u231	I've had about 30 seconds. On 20 February, a meeting of the Committee of the Supreme Council on Social Policy and Labour addressed the issue. You're getting the point. The bill proposes to eliminate the contradictions between the Labour Protection Act and the Act on the List of Permits in Business. This issue, the law was, and these changes were unanimously supported. Therefore, the proposal to accept this as a basis.
ParlaMint-UA_2013-05-15-m0.u232	Thank you. Any questions to the committee for a co-conspirator? No votes. There's a rule. Let's follow the rules. I'm asking members of the factions to sign up for the speech. I don't see a list. Yes, please. It's a faction. And then we'll write it down from the deputies. The Fatherland faction, Tomenko. Please.
ParlaMint-UA_2013-05-15-m0.u233	Please tell my colleague Kseniya Liapiniya, who is well aware of this not a simple problem.
ParlaMint-UA_2013-05-15-m0.u234	Pass it on, please.
ParlaMint-UA_2013-05-15-m0.u235	Thank you, Your Honor. Kseniya Lapina, "Fatherland" faction, Party "For Ukraine!"the city of Kiev. Dear colleagues, I am grateful to Mr. Suhim for continuing a whole series of bills that bring legislation into line with the Law on the Allowance System. In fact, we need to do this, and we still have a number of laws at the time that still do not comply with the principles of the Freedom System Act. Despite what the author has suggested in general, I think we should accept, on the basis of some editorial remarks for the second reading, but the bill is essentially short, sufficiently technical and needs to be supported and implemented. Thank you.
ParlaMint-UA_2013-05-15-m0.u236	Thank you. The "Freedom" Union of Peace.
ParlaMint-UA_2013-05-15-m0.u237	Alexander Mirny, the All-Ukrainian Freedom Union. Please give the floor to the national deputy Zelik.
ParlaMint-UA_2013-05-15-m0.u238	Pass it on, please.
ParlaMint-UA_2013-05-15-m0.u239	Dear colleagues, Ruslan Zelik of the All-Ukrainian Freedom Union. You know, I want to say a few words on the previous bill. We come out of this practice of relevance and social and national justice when we make decisions when we vote for the bill. And I was really surprised that the bill before the bill on pay for weekends and non-working days was not exactly voted by those people who certainly do not want to pay double wages to their employees. And with regard to this bill, it's really, it's technical, it's been all over, it's got positive feedback, and we're going to vote for it. Thank you for your attention.
ParlaMint-UA_2013-05-15-m0.u240	Please, Party of Regions National Deputy Stoyan.
ParlaMint-UA_2013-05-15-m0.u241	Dear colleagues, in principle, I have been a deputy for many years, a social politician, and I have not spoken Russian in many years. But our colleagues, who have never been a member of parliament before. When I was protected, I was forced to switch to Russian. Because they are. [[B in m in s a l in]] Because they prevent my colleagues from expressing their voter positions. Our deputies have the right to represent their constituents and have the right to defend them, and I therefore speak in Russian in protest. [[B in m in s a l in]] With regard to the bill, the bill certainly promotes the protection of the interests of the worker and the protection of the security technology. I therefore believe that this bill should be adopted. And last of all, respectable colleagues from Freedom don't give, please don't put on the electorate's psychology, please don't put on the MP's psychology, if you want to go for it, it won't increase the ratings of the Ukrainian language, it won't increase the ratings of the politicians, so you're driving many MPs, most of the population to make it simple, and you're thereby hindering the Ukrainian language. So I suggest, listen, I went to Ukrainian, listen. Listen carefully, I've already switched to Ukrainian, and if you want to prove who speaks better in Ukrainian, I'm going to propose three men from every political force, including from the Party of Regions to meet and we'll write to you a dictator in Ukrainian. And you'll see that in the Party of Regions, the vast majority of the deputies speak Ukrainian, they defend Ukrainian, and you provoke us not to respect our native language. And who yells "cart," then ask the question to your Thrust Side is "cart" number one.
ParlaMint-UA_2013-05-15-m0.u242	The Vitalia Klitschka faction, the People's Chamber of Commerce.
ParlaMint-UA_2013-05-15-m0.u243	Oksana Prodan, Vitaly Klitschka Faction. I also want to thank Mr. Dryma for raising the business issue in Ukraine in general, and it shows that it's actually difficult for entrepreneurs today. If really, the Party of Regions doesn't care what happens to entrepreneurs, then I'll remind you that on the committees you don't vote for the Bills of Impact, which lower the rate of the only social contribution that would actually make it possible to legalize wages, that you don't vote in favour of the help that would really cancel and destroy a whole range of supporting and regulatory documents and much more. I want to pay attention to this bill that we're talking about now 1225. It's like a formal bill, as if some words change into others. But I want to pay attention to all the representatives, and first of all to the Party of Regions, what's going on. Today, every enterprise receives a once-in-a-lifetime job security inspection permit. It's suggested that we formally change the license to do jobs. And so work can be checked once a month, once a year. Well, as soon as it's done by law, something will be set up. If, indeed, Mr. Dry wants to help the business, then this law should remove the "beginning of work," in general "checking and allowing to start work," but there is no deletion of this norm, there is a replacement of the "beginning of work" by "authority of work." That's how. "by permission to operate." Thus, a situation that took place with fire - watching supervision when introducing a declaratory principle, the Supreme Council of the past call forced every existing subject today, in view of those who are watching and listening today, to submit a declaration to the authorities of fire control by 1 July of this year in order to confirm that he exists, and this declaration needs to be fulfilled correctly. Because if you fill out the declaration wrong, you will have a fine and a reason to check with the fire department. That's why this bill is actually the introduction of additional, and possibly mass, checks by the labor authorities. This is an excuse for further checks in the future of business. And of course, the impact faction doesn't support such a bill. Thank you.
ParlaMint-UA_2013-05-15-m0.u244	Please, the Communist faction, Simonenko Peter Mikolaiovich.
ParlaMint-UA_2013-05-15-m0.u245	Simonenko, the Communist faction. Dear colleagues! I would like all those present to have no illusions about the problem that we are discussing today. The Company's faction will support this bill, but once again, I want to emphasize that there is no need to feed any illusions, because all that is written in the laws is unfortunately not being fulfilled. This concerns safety of work, i.e. safety of work, in which, in fact, everyone who produces material values should live today. I hope to be understood by my colleagues, who are the owners of large and small enterprises here, who have subjected their activities today to the greatest possible benefit. Thus, the law and interests of the owners conflict. Because the law provides for the safe conduct of our workers, and the owner, above all, exhausts everything from the already outdated equipment to maximize profits. Thus, where today up to 70 per cent, 80 per cent of the value of the core funds, when the interests of the owner conflict with the laws and interests of the same workers when corruption binds them all. This is indeed a scourge for Ukraine today because the system itself provides for the protection of the interests of the owner rather than of the employee. This corruption has led to the wages of a firefighter, the wages of law enforcement officials and many, many others. That's why I'm addressing everyone here today in this room again. I want to draw your attention to the need to deal seriously with safety issues. We have a massive tragedy in the coal industry. Why? Because at all costs today, miners are being thrown into the ground, safety regulations are not respected, people are being killed. The latest tragedy at the coal thermal power plant is also the result of the failure to comply with the rules of safety and performance of all works, which destroyed Europe's largest thermal power plant. By the way, who doesn't know, I want to point out once again that the Donbass Communists have built the largest thermal power plant in Europe. And again, it gave 30 percent of Donbass' energy potential. Therefore, the faction of the company supports this bill, once again appeals to you, workers, do not believe these laws, but think about who you are giving power to, and why today the owner is ousting from responsibility before the law, especially for the sake of his income, rather than thinking about your life. Thank you.
ParlaMint-UA_2013-05-15-m0.u246	Thank you. Ladies and gentlemen, the factions have spoken. Any MPs who want to make a statement? You won't? You won't? Yes. I'd like the deputies to sign up. There are deputies that we have. Full review procedure. The MPs signed up. Fatherland, Yavorowski People's Deputy.
ParlaMint-UA_2013-05-15-m0.u247	Vladimir Yavorowski, Fatherland, Troyshina. Well, first of all. Ladies and gentlemen, you can see that instead of looking at, for example, on a full-time basis, such a complex bill as the write-off of debts for long-privatized "broadcasts", "broadcasters" and so on, we're looking at a short program, and a question that, frankly, could be accepted at all after a brief discussion and we could consider some more questions, we're wasting such time on it. The other one. Although the synoptics promise us today and the rain, and I would today, well, personally, call it the High Council "the Day of the Dry." Because it was a wonderful performance by the National Commission on Radio and Television, where he offered, instead of choosing, simply to run or disband the council. And the second is that he has made a very good, highly qualified and very necessary bill, which "Paternity" will be required to support. It's really important. And obviously that is the way we should go with you as legislators: a bill is adopted, life is tested, and then some adjustments are made to its achilles five, as it were. Yeah, obviously, and with this bill, it's very useful, and we're going to support it. And the last. Volodymyr Vasilovich, I'd like to propose to those who are there to form the day's order and set it up. Not the agenda, but the turn of the bill, let them even take off the issue -- and the Supreme Council not to look at the date at all. We can't get to that question for six months. See how many outstanding dates, outstanding people, some overdue, someone deliberately puts them in the tail itself, forgive me, fully understanding that they will not be accepted. So throw them all in the trash and let's not go back to that. Or put them at the same level as other bills, not as secondary and decorative. I'm sure of it. Vladimir Vasilovich, solve this question and do it. Well, look how many days we've been pulling these dates. Half of them have already gone straight through. Thank you.
ParlaMint-UA_2013-05-15-m0.u248	Thank you. The Fatherland faction, the People's Deputy of Lapina, please.
ParlaMint-UA_2013-05-15-m0.u249	Xenya Lapina, "Fatherland" faction, Party "For Ukraine!"the city of Kiev. Dear colleagues, I feel the same way that the bill is technical enough to be accepted quickly. I want to tell my colleagues at Strike that there's no point here, because there's not really going to be any duplication. On the contrary, we eliminate contradictions. We'll understand the simple rules of the game. Permission cannot be obtained for a start, it is obtained for a certain activity: either a job or an application of equipment. Thus, there will be no re-receiving of a permit, because there is a clear procedure in the permit law that provides grounds for giving grounds for repealing it. So there's no threat to entrepreneurs. At the same time, this ensures a balance of interests and provides exactly the main objective, or protection of work. That is, the safety of workers, which we can't forget. So I think it needs to be voted out, it's balancing completely all the parts of the purpose of this law, that is, the simple transparent rules and the safety of work. Thank you.
ParlaMint-UA_2013-05-15-m0.u250	Thank you. Popes was handed over to Chechtovu.
ParlaMint-UA_2013-05-15-m0.u251	Dear Vladimir Vasiljevic, distinguished colleagues. Of course, the law must be voted on. But I want to draw attention to the gravest violation of the law. The opposition, you'll see, there's no leader of the opposition in the Hall, either from the "Batyakish" or from "Freedom". There's no room. Opposition, because you have to vote if you don't say yes, at least against it. You must be in the hall. Otherwise, go to the register, give up today's salary. That'll be fair. But the example must be set by the leaders of the opposition who voted in favour of the roll-call vote, for each to vote individually! What example do they set?Oh, my God! There is no leader of the opposition in this room! It's a disgrace to the whole country! Disgusting! Look, let the cinemas show empty rows! Why don't they vote no?Oh, my God! Why don't you hold on?Oh, my God! If you have a conscience, write a statement, give up your salary! Today! Don't embarrass the country! Don't embarrass people! Thank you.
ParlaMint-UA_2013-05-15-m0.u252	Dear National Deputies! There's only one minute of work left. I give my word for the closing, closing word to the People's Deputy Dry and we'll make a decision.
ParlaMint-UA_2013-05-15-m0.u253	Dear colleagues! I strongly request young, new Ukrainian national deputies, you do not appreciate the drafts specifically of the Ukrainian National MP because of the party's prism. I'm here to report a bill as Ukrainian national deputy elected in 74th district of Zaporozhye. Where this problem is, reducing jobs in metallurgical complexes causes people to look elsewhere for jobs in small and medium-sized businesses. That's why I'm speaking with this bill. That's the first one. As far as I'm concerned, Mrs. Oksana, I notice that we didn't support your bill on the committee. You must understand, and you will all come to your senses, or, as you do not know, approach the loving member of our committee. Reductions in insurance premiums will automatically result in a reduction in insurance payments in the future. And reducing the contribution of a person, especially a hired worker, will result in his pension being poor. And he'll be looking for who's to blame. And the last. Colleagues, in one way or another, are allowed to work in harmful, difficult conditions, and there must be a license to use machinery. But you still don't realize that it's being given for a particular operation, for the use of a grider, a bulldozer, a welding machine. But not for starters. Because if you start, you won't be able to open any business. That's what this bill is all about. I ask you once again to support it on the basis and in general, with observations for which I have called.
ParlaMint-UA_2013-05-15-m0.u254	Thank you. Let's move on to making a decision. People's deputies are asked to prepare themselves for the vote, and they vote for themselves. I am voting on draft Law 1225 amending certain legislative acts of Ukraine (to define the term) as amended by the People's Deputies of the Dry for adoption as a basis and as a whole. Please vote. [[14:17:33]] For 213 Against 0, held – 12, not a vote – 63. The decision is not taken. The morning session is closed. I'll meet you all in the session room tomorrow at 10:00. See you tomorrow.
