ParlaMint-UA_2013-11-05-m0.u1	Good morning, distinguished national deputies, invited and guests of the Supreme Council! People's deputies please prepare for registration! Please turn on the "Race" system. [[10:01:39]] 365 national deputies were registered. The morning session of the Supreme Council of Ukraine is open. Today is the birthday of the Ukrainian national deputy Victor Vasilovich Bondar. Let's say hello to him on his birthday. Dear colleagues, according to article 25 of the Rules on Tuesday, we have 30 minutes to make statements to the authorized representatives of the MPs with proposals, announcements, statements, reports. I'd like the factions to sign up for the performance. Please, the faction of the Company of Ukraine National Deputy Peter Simonenko. Please.
ParlaMint-UA_2013-11-05-m0.u2	Dear voters! On October 31st, the International Monetary Fund imposed new, even more brutal, demands on Ukraine to reduce social benefits, reduce wages, and increase gas prices for the population, as well as prices and tariffs for services of the HKG, transport, first-hand supplies, medical services, food products, and so on. The government has already agreed to increase the price of gas and tariffs by 60 percent and has agreed to reduce the benefits for citizens and lower the rate of the fine. We Communists are convinced that such requirements are a direct intervention in the internal affairs of our country, and these requirements are a betrayal of the people and national interests. Today, wages amount to a billion dollars, a 40 billion hole in the Pension Fund, and people are being driven out of the street, forcing them to take vacations on their own account, and a financial crisis is taking place in Ukraine. The government accounts have blocked more than 6 billion coins belonging to local governments. In the last quarter of this year, they have no money to pay their wages, electricity bills, and utilities. This is a legitimate result of so-called reforms, and primarily because of the plundering privatization and the return of Ukraine to the capitalist past. But if you listen to both the authorities and the so - called opposition, they only do what they do to protect the rights of the disadvantaged Ukrainians. And in order to be believed, they showed the people a red carrot that would make their lives European – an Association Agreement with the EU. It's like a self-gathering machine: it's on the stove, and you're gonna have European values and democracy, and you're gonna get paid, it's going to become European, and the quality of production is going to get better. Unlike these illusions, the EU, along with the IMF, requires Ukraine, and the oligarchs of power and opposition have agreed to reduce jobs, reduce wages, pay, raise prices and retirement age, destroy the health system. But they are silent in the same Europe about the need for Ukraine's oligarchs to pay people their earnings in a timely manner, silent about the need to raise to the European level of wages, to implement the Constitution of Ukraine, which, by the way, provides for free education and medical assistance, which provides for both the Constitution and the laws to ensure that children of war, the Chernobyls, the Afghans pay for everything at the right time. It's the European Union that's not interested. Europe is deeply concerned about the rights of an oligarch, but it degrades and entraps 45 million ordinary people in the mud. Europe wants to live at the expense of the Ukrainians. What this policy has led to is that it's very much driven by the principle of privatization of the Chrysalistal. In seven years, more than 20,000 people have been fired from their jobs and are planning to be released by 2017. Without the consent of the trade unions and the labour community, entire structural units are eliminated. Forced by threats of release and wolf’s ticket, a so - called fixed salary has been introduced in spite of the current pay. All the social infrastructure, the hospitals, the prophylaxis, the kindergartens and the mangers, they're not -- they're the rest and clinic bases that were dumped by a foreign owner from a business balance sheet. And that's just the beginning. According to experts after the signing of the Agreement with the European Union and the economic capture before the real threat of destruction, the Kharkiv Tractor Plant, DP Antonov, Zaporozic Motor-Sich, Krukovsky Wagon Repair Plant, Severodoński and Cherkassky "Azomash", Lvivski Bus Plant, Hmelnicki Mechanic Plant, Hungarian Turbogaz, and hundreds more enterprises in all parts of Ukraine. Tens of thousands of families will be without jobs and livelihoods. We're calling for an All-Ukrainian referendum to be held on this issue. Not all of you, dear Ukrainians, know that Ukraine's involvement in the Association is behind the geopolitical interests of the United States. They coincide fully with the economic interests of Europe in order for Ukraine to be a raw material supplement, a state that provides cheap labour, and an area where they will implement their products. But this also includes the final withdrawal of Ukraine from the Slavonic roots and Orthodox values, as well as the conversion of our native Ukraine with you to the military territory of the buffer zone against the Russian Federation. With the support of the party of power and oligarchs, Americans are today solving the issues by starting a procedure and project, in fact, in the creation of a local church, as well as involving Ukraine in the NATO structure. The company has already collected over a million signatures on the need for a referendum. And he's going to collect all the signatures necessary to show again that people today want to hold a referendum. We also urge our fellow MPs to support our bills that have been tabled this plenary week. These are bills: the abolition of pension and medical reform, the application of pennies for salary delays, the moratorium on prices and housing and utility tariffs. We are convinced that the signing of the so-called EU Association Agreement will lead to the elimination of Ukraine's economic sovereignty, its political enslavement by transnational corporations, and the destruction of centuries-old cultures and spiritual values, and the traditions of the Ukrainian people. We Communists want you to know. Thank you.
ParlaMint-UA_2013-11-05-m0.u3	The faction of the Party of the Regions, National Deputy Melniczuk.
ParlaMint-UA_2013-11-05-m0.u4	Please give the floor to Deputy Dzos.
ParlaMint-UA_2013-11-05-m0.u5	Pass it on, please. Please.
ParlaMint-UA_2013-11-05-m0.u6	Dear Vladimir Vasilevich, distinguished colleagues! On 28 October, it was exactly the year we became members of the Supreme Council of Ukraine. And of course, during that period, we all met with our constituents. I've been seeing my criminals. They asked me to say a lot from the parliamentary rostrum. But perhaps the first and most important thing today is to convey the most sincere words of congratulations to all Kievers, to all Ukrainian citizens of this momentous date, to the 70th anniversary of the liberation of Kiev and to the area from German-Fashistic invaders. On dates like these, we're rethinking our history, and we're looking at events of the past, and without the past, there's neither real nor future. They don't say that the person who doesn't think about the future doesn't have it. And of course, everyone sitting in this room today, in front of the Vilnius Summit, is concerned about the future of our Ukraine. Today we are in the forefront of a very important and serious choice: we choose the foreign policy course of our State. And every day there are new and new circumstances, such as that of Julia Timoshenko. The Party of Regions was ready to resolve the issue with Yulia Timoshenko, but there were new developments in the trial, which began in the United States of America and Switzerland in the case of the theft of $500 million, and was charged by Pavel Lazarenko and Julia Timoshenko. Of course, these moments are trying to lead us astray. We must all understand that no one in our country, in our Ukraine, will come or raise production, will increase the internal gross process. No one will create decent social standards, no one will lay down the rules and laws that our State must live by. That's what we have to do with you Ukrainians. And we need to make assumptions about that today. Where do you want to start? We need to start from childhood. We need to start with our children. And today I want to focus our attention on pre-school education. And not even because each one of us is concerned about this question because there are children, grandchildren, but because the understanding and attitude of many of the issues discussed in this room are placed in our childhood, in our kindergarten. Investing in pre-school education is a solution to many problems, including economic ones. In the United States, it was estimated that every dollar invested in a child under six years of age contributed $8 to the public economy. Do you know why Britain is one of the most developed States? Because when asked that question to the former British Prime Minister, he replied: "Ask me, and what are the main priorities of my Government? And I will answer: education, education, education." I am pleased that this priority has also become a priority for our Ukrainian authorities. This is illustrated by the social initiatives of President Viktor Fedorović Yanukovic of Ukraine: “Children are the future of Ukraine”. He made it clear that the priority for kindergartens should be eliminated by 2015. How should we carry out this process in the circumstances in which we are in when we have such a budget, such funding? I see that we must go through four main stages here: the first stage is to analyse the activities of all pre-school institutions; the second phase is to provide a field for private public partnership, and the State should include green light for all investors who want and can build kindergartens in Ukraine and give them any preference. Third, of course, to open new forms of preschool education, such as family kindergartens, such as development centres, for children, such as charter kindergartens, kindergartens, magnets. And of course, the fourth, very important moment is the social status of the educator who works in the kindergarten. We entrusted them with the most important of our children, and we entrusted them with tremendous responsibility, but we paid them from one and a half to 2,000 bracelets. Dear colleagues! I am absolutely convinced that all of us are building our future with you: alone in our lives, in our families, in our schools, in our kindergartens. And I very much want those children we are growing to be happy and needed in our State, and this is only possible in an economically stable, prosperous country. I believe that our Ukraine will be such a State. Thank you for your attention.
ParlaMint-UA_2013-11-05-m0.u7	Freedom Union, national deputy Oleg Tajnibok, please.
ParlaMint-UA_2013-11-05-m0.u8	Dear colleagues, Ukrainian national deputies, brothers and sisters, Ukrainians! There was little time left until the days when the fate of the Ukrainian State would really be decided in Vilnius. It will be determined in which direction our country will move: whether we will continue to drown in that Asian, Moscow, Communist swamp, or whether we have another future and another perspective. That is why we are aware that this week the Ukrainian Parliament could decide two very important things: it will finally put a stop to the issue of political persecution and imprisonment of Yulia Timoshenko, and it will still start the process and approve the relevant Law on Prosecutor's Office as one of the most important requirements that European partners have before us right now. As for Tymoshenko, the situation here is quite clear. Yes, there were times when in 2009 the U.S. Freedom Union criticised the government of Timoshenko, including for gas contracts. But today we understand and realize that the fate of Timoshenko is the fate of the politically repressive. And we realize that today in Europe, Mrs. Timoshenko has become a symbol of political persecution. So the party of power, if it really wants to move to Europe and not just declare such things, it has to clearly adopt a political decision, get the right political will and resolve the issue of Timoshenko. This should be done by the President, but if the issue is being referred to parliament, then this week an appropriate legislative norm should have been voted on to resolve this problem, which must have been finally removed from place. Second situation with regard to the Procurator's Act. Of course, we need to listen to the recommendations proposed by the Venice Commission, but we would like to know the truth that European partners really require of us. We don't want to know what the party of power is twisting into its own account. We realize that they are very often using tactics right now: they are proposing laws with a good name for Euro-integration, and in fact, the essence of those laws is completely the opposite, and it is only their desire to usurp power in Ukraine and build a dictatorship here. Including, and that goes for the Procurator's Act. If the President proposes to Parliament the nomination of the Attorney-General, and Parliament votes in favour of this candidature, then Parliament should also call off the Attorney-General. Because we have a, you know, interesting situation: we're required, and it's the right thing for prosecutors to become independent, but they have to be independent of everyone and, above all, from the influence of power. But actually, de facto, it's quite different. As a result, the prosecutor may become independent of the community, of journalists, of society, but be very dependent even on the current regime, which directly influences the appointment of prosecutors. Therefore, such a bill should exist exclusively in the interests of Ukrainian society and the prosecution, and should not become a repressive body of the current regime, but rather a structure to serve the Ukrainian people. Our present - day authority is very dual, and it is a demonstration of a constant wedding before Moscow. We can't understand what direction the current government and the President have set. We do not know that for five hours Janukovitch spoke with Putin in Sochi about the consequences of their conversation. Because we realize and realize that they could only agree on certain preferences. Perhaps that is why the government of Azarov has ratified and supported as many as five treaties with the Customs Union, and they intend to do so in the near future — some 70 treaties they want to support and ratify. Where, then, are European integration aspirations? Identify yourself as officials, rather, unrespectable officials! And finally, on the 7th of November, the All-U.S. Freedom Unit registered a bill banning communist ideology. And we think it was done in good time. Of course, we were struck by the reaction yesterday to the Conciliation Council not so many Communist Party representatives who are our ideological opponents and enemies, but as representatives of the Party of Regions who raised the scream and began to say that "this is our story," don't touch our history. You see, if you talk about banning Communist ideology, it could harm us with a Euro-integration desire. Lies and lies. I inform you that as early as 2006, the Parliamentary Assembly of the Council of Europe adopted an appropriate resolution on the crimes of communism and the need for their condemnation, and these resolutions clearly reflect the equality between the ideology of communism and the ideology of Nazism. Moldova, the Baltic countries, all the countries of Eastern Europe have condemned communism, and Ukraine should do the same. Well, society, of course, in that context, we can't help but mention the disgrace that the MPs saw, the 10 deputies who didn't want to be admitted to the Ministry of Internal Affairs, in the Ministry of Internal Affairs, when they posted portraits of those who organized the famine, and it turns out they're ideologists today at the Ministry of Internal Affairs. For example, Liplev Israel Moiseyevich is the one who organized the famine in 1932-1933, Timothy Strucak, the famine in 1946-1947, or the Vysvolod Balitsky, who was authorized by the HMO. Are these today the ideologies of the party of power? Maybe it's your story, but it's not the story of the Ukrainians that will respond to your insolence and self-inflictedness.
ParlaMint-UA_2013-11-05-m0.u9	The Fatherland faction, National Deputy Arsenius Yatzenuk. Please.
ParlaMint-UA_2013-11-05-m0.u10	Honorable Members of the Ukrainian Parliament! I would like to address this address, not to the Supreme Council of Ukraine, but to the President of Ukraine, Viktor Yanukovic, personally, as it is up to him or Ukraine to sign the Agreement with the European Union. It is just two weeks before the EU Council decides whether Ukraine will be part of the European Union, whether Ukraine will move forward and into the future, whether Ukraine will remain in the corrupt and marsh environment created by this President and this government. We have a very clear choice. And in order for our nation and our people to feel like members of the great European space personally for the President and for his party and faction, it is a step towards voting and signing a law that allows Yulia Timoshenko to get medical care abroad. This is a step that enables Julia Timoshenko to be released and stop political persecution. The formula is very simple. If Viktor Janukovic and the Party of Regions vote in favour of a bill tabled by the independent Labour MP, who is supported by our European partners, namely, the Cox and Kwasinevsky mission, which will be supported by the votes of the entire Ukrainian opposition, and the opposition is ready to vote and even withdraw its bill, which is supported by Yulia Timoshenko and which paves the way for the European Union, an agreement will be signed in Vilnius. In that case, if a treaty is signed in Vilnius, Ukraine will get, firstly, macro-financial assistance from our Western partners (this is 11.5 billion plus 600 million euros from our European partners). Ukraine will have a real reform plan that will enable it to overcome corruption, which will enable it to have fair and independent courts, which will enable it to create jobs that will enable it to invest here, which will enable it to provide quality education and quality health care that will enable every Ukrainian to be proud of being a citizen of our country. And that's exactly why Victor Janukovic has to make a decision that he doesn't have much time for. There's a second version of what's happening. The President of Ukraine and the Party of Regions continue to block Ukraine’s entry into the European Union. They continue to postpone voting for the Law on the Liberation of Julia Timoshenko and do not vote in favour of this law. If the Party of Regions does not vote in favour of the law, and the President accordingly supports their position and does not sign the Order on the pardon of Yulia Timoshenko, there will be no treaty in Vilnius. If there is no agreement in Vilnius, Ukraine will not be able to obtain either $11 billion or $1 billion. These are the funds that are needed to pay pensions, wages, and to help every Ukrainian survive in these difficult conditions. If there is no agreement, Ukraine will not go through real and comprehensive reforms; we will continue to stay with corrupt prosecutors, sales judges, and a system of education that gives only diplomas, not knowledge, with a system of medicine that is only money-driving and does not allow for cure. This historic choice, this historic responsibility of this President. And we're asking him and this so-called overpowered majority to overcome their fears, overcome their own complexes, stand up a few steps higher and say, "We've turned the disgraceful page on the history of political persecution, we're not going to hold on to political opponents, and we're going to take a step forward towards the European Union." Without this step, there will be very, very difficult times in Ukraine. State Treasury is a real bankruptcy, the lowest amount of money in the last 10 years on the State Treasury account is 410 million. These are coins that don't pay at all. The pension fund is a real bankruptcy, almost 60 billion dollars of money owed by the Pension Fund. The Ukrainian economy is also, unfortunately, almost bankrupt: zero GDP growth, negative industrial growth, total economic stagnation. Ukraine is on its way to an economic and political catastrophe. The only way to get our country out is to sign a treaty, and to do that, we need to release Julia Timoshenko. Mr. President, take this step! Thank you for your attention.
ParlaMint-UA_2013-11-05-m0.u11	Vitaly Kowalczuk, Vitaly Klick Faction. Please.
ParlaMint-UA_2013-11-05-m0.u12	Respectable citizens of Ukraine, respected colleagues! In order for us to solve all the urgent issues for Ukraine in a timely fashion, the Vitalia Klicka faction proposes two weeks in a session mode. Yesterday at the Conciliation Council, Vladimir Vasilovich, you assured me that this issue would be included in the agenda and voted. But unfortunately, in the draft order, we don't see that question. So we insist that the 3497 draft is included in the agenda and that all colleagues support it. We finally have time to put points above "and" in the principle question of fulfilling Ukraine's obligations in the context of the signing of the Association Agreement with the European Union. If President Yanukovic and the Party of the Regions are not going to sign the Agreement, they should openly declare it. Stop the pharisaicism surrounding the signing of the treaty and especially about the liberation of Julius Tymoshenko. Otherwise, as a Pharisee, it is not possible to call yesterday's break-up of a committee meeting, which should have dealt with all the draft legislation on the definition of mechanisms for the liberation of Yulia Timoshenko. Also, unlike the Pharisee, you can't call at the last minute the proposal to create a working group on these issues, but so far the Party of Regions has rejected any proposals on this issue. Attempts to shift the responsibility of the opposition to the break-up of the Association of Powers Agreement have been openly failed, and the authorities are now openly, boldly and demonstratively doing everything to ensure that the signing does not take place. That's no way to fool Ukrainians and the whole world. I want to remind you, if the Association Agreement in Vilnius is not signed, the personal responsibility for this will lie with only one person, President Yanukovic. That's why we insist on the consideration and approval of the draft Law on the Order of impeachment to the President in the session room. Janukovic needs to understand what will come and will have to be answered. I'm talking to the authorities. You will not be able to stop Ukraine's integration into the European Union. And if you waste that time right now, the Association Agreement will still be signed by the new president. Now on the other hand. Last week, Odessa became the fifth district center in which there was no city head assembly. And we're already hearing the thought that there's not enough time to run an electoral campaign in time. But it's not about time. It's about desire. Draft election decrees in Kiev, in district centers, in other cities where there are no mayors, have long been under consideration in the relevant committee. They should be considered. If necessary, they can make appropriate adjustments on the date and put to the voting room. Because decapitated local self-government is a demonstration of the real aspirations of power. And not European at all. This is unthinkable in Europe, as is the inconceivable holding of illegal meetings of the illegal Kyiv City Council under the protection of the police and the blocked doors. I want to speak to the Head of the Supreme Council. Dear Vladimir Vasilovich, we offer you along with the opposition deputies on November 13, this year, when the next attempt is made to hold an illegal meeting of the Kiev City Council, come with us to the KMDA premises and see for yourself who is being released to Kievrad. Perhaps you will be given the opportunity to be present at this pseudo-session. And the last. The situation with the budget in Ukraine is critical. Already the fifth quarter of GDP in the country is falling. Social debt is over 2 billion. The average wage is also falling. But we don't see a government budget report for this year or a budget project for next year. It's an unsatisfactory government job. We therefore require a report from the government on the implementation of the current budget and an immediate submission to the Supreme Council of the draft budget for the following year. Dear colleagues, I would like to remind you that Ukraine and the citizens of Ukraine are worthy of a better destiny and a more worthy life, and we will do so. Glory to Ukraine!
ParlaMint-UA_2013-11-05-m0.u13	I'd like a minute with Peter Simonek on the line.
ParlaMint-UA_2013-11-05-m0.u14	Dear voters! You hear that today, when they hate the Company, they are calling and trying to intimidate us by banning our activities so that it is impossible to hold a referendum in Ukraine on the issue of Euro-integration or the Customs Union. With this, I'd like to warn you right now that you won't be intimidated. And it's clear to us what else the creative descendants and followers of those who fought on Hitler's side and met the German troops in Lviv with the bread-force. What can be understood today when the District Administration of Lviv banned citizens from celebrating the 69-year-old liberation of Ukraine this year, and the city authorities that belong to the Ukrainian neo-Nazis of Freedom and UN-UPA openly declared that the Wehrmacht Army and the SS were not invaders?Oh, my God! It's only political and real bastards who can talk about it! And in general, let's say we talk about the Germans being their friends, we're talking about Adolf Hitler.
ParlaMint-UA_2013-11-05-m0.u15	Are we ever going to work or are we going to make lines? Turn on the microphone. One minute.
ParlaMint-UA_2013-11-05-m0.u16	Dear Volodymyr Vasilovich, distinguished national deputies! We have just been accused of the city of Lviv and of the entire Lviv community, as if we have the authority of neo - Nazis in the city. All over Ukraine, I want to say that this is a cynical example of misdirection and an ideological diversion against Galicina and Ukraine as a whole. The same ideological diversion as the leadership of the Ukrainian Football Federation, which called on international football authorities to disqualify the Lviv Arena-Lviv stadium, which was building a state budget for Ukraine, as if through neo-Nazi provocations. In this way they want to stamp the city of Lviv, Galicin, Ukraine as a whole as a reserve of Nazism and neo - Nazism, which are virtually ideological structures, ugly simulations that have been imposed by Communists for the past 100 years. The only national Socialists present today in the world and in Ukraine are Communists who, unfortunately, are still working and working in the Ukrainian parliaments. So when they celebrate Kiev's liberation from the Nazi invaders, they probably should have known how they helped these invaders in 1939-1941. And these tanks, the shells, the bullets that killed the Ukrainians and the Red Army as a whole.
ParlaMint-UA_2013-11-05-m0.u17	The replica. National MP Simonenko. And that's what we're going to be like by tonight: replicas. Please.
ParlaMint-UA_2013-11-05-m0.u18	Dear colleagues! Dear citizens of Ukraine! I'm informing you that the position of our faction is to review the funding and the state budgets that are being allocated to Lvivsk, Ternopilsk, Ivano-Frankiv region and to remove the money that is being allocated to support the Fascist shelters. I have in my hands a document that shows that it was in the Lviv region that the decisions taken by the official district council were financed by the Lviv National Brotherhood of UN-OPA -- those who were fighting on the side of the Germans. And now, in violation of the harsh and brutal Constitution and laws of Ukraine, they get financial support for killing Ukrainians, destroying Ukrainians. And by the way, by the way, I would like to point out that we haven't forgotten that by 1953-1956, you were killing civilians in the Lviv region and other areas. You're the one who killed Ukrainian civilians from the shelters. Thank you.
ParlaMint-UA_2013-11-05-m0.u19	Thank you. We're out of lines. He didn't call it "freedom" or "fatherland" or "party of regions," he didn't call it, or Stoika didn't call anyone. I'm making an offer, distinguished national MPs. Please sit down and we'll make a decision. I'm making a proposal to approve the weekly schedule of plenary meetings from 5 to 8 November. Vitaly Kowalczuk made an additional 3497 proposal for work next week. The committee will consider it, and we will make a decision that the committee will make. So the weekly schedule is given to you. People's deputies are requested to prepare themselves for the vote and support this proposal. Please vote. [[10:38:52]] For a hundred and So you're looking forward to it, huh? What are you looking forward to? I'm going to take a break today, and the question is neither Julie nor will. We're not going to consider anything. [[B in m in s a l in]] I'm telling you again, let's either work or we're going to go look. [[B in m in s a l in]] I'll give it to all the factions one more time. I'll put it to a vote. If it's not decided to work, I'll call it a day. [[B in m in s a l in]] And then we'll work on the committees. Then you'll go on TV and you'll criticize me. Please sign up for factions in a minute. Our Polish friends are taking on the experience that is in the Ukrainian Parliament. [[Applause]] Please, Liberty faction, one minute, Cherniaków. What are some questions in the order of today’s session? Please.
ParlaMint-UA_2013-11-05-m0.u20	Please pass the word to Alexia Kaidi.
ParlaMint-UA_2013-11-05-m0.u21	Pass it on, please.
ParlaMint-UA_2013-11-05-m0.u22	Thank you. Alexy Kaida, faction of the All-Ukrainian Freedom Union, Ternopilish. Dear Vladimir Vasilovich, honourable fellow MPs, well, we're back to the situation that took place last plenary week, when, again, the agenda forms without agreeing with the faction leaders. Again, the issue of the approval of the Public Prosecutor's Act. What kind of bill do we adopt? There is one in order of the day that is not acceptable. Instead, it should be the Public Prosecutor’s Act that meets all European integration standards. Moreover, in this order of the day even today, Bill 3445, a bill that has not even been discussed on a committee that has no conclusion. And such examples are mass. All-Ukrainian faction.
ParlaMint-UA_2013-11-05-m0.u23	Ladies and gentlemen, may I have your attention? Deputy Kyle's making an offer. May I have your attention, national deputies? The deputy Qaeda is proposing that the laws that are included in the agenda, about the four laws, you know which, and others that are not considered by the committees, should be removed from consideration on this Sunday. May I put it to a vote? [[B in m in s a l in]] What do you mean, "don't"? What about the prosecution, the committee didn't look, take pictures, and leave the others behind? What is this selectiveness? [[B in m in s a l in]] Please, Arseny Yatzenuk, please, the "Fatherland" faction. You'll have a minute.
ParlaMint-UA_2013-11-05-m0.u24	Dear Mr. Head, you're such a decent man, and you're getting emotional. And let me do a little bit of antifreeze: eliminating illiteracy from the Rules. In accordance with article 25 of the Rules, you had the right to ask just one question right now, namely, the completion of the vote on the drafts on the abolition of pension reform. The other one. In accordance with the Parliament's decision adopted last plenary week, the Supreme Council of Ukraine has the right to consider only three bills, and these are three bills relating to the release of Yulia Timoshenko. Four. In line with our obligations to European partners today, there must be a new law on the prosecution, and we have not yet seen it, and there should be a special commission to amend electoral legislation. Therefore, please do not waver in law and regulation.
ParlaMint-UA_2013-11-05-m0.u25	You'll discuss this with the deputy Qaeda, who says you shouldn't be okay with the DA's Day Act. [[B in m in s a l in]] For you to know the Rules, Arseni Petrovich, there is no need to include the daily laws on pension reform in the order of the day. Read the material portion. You get it, don't you? Read, read. Heroceno. Irina Heratschenko, strike faction.
ParlaMint-UA_2013-11-05-m0.u26	Please give the word to Packan.
ParlaMint-UA_2013-11-05-m0.u27	Please.
ParlaMint-UA_2013-11-05-m0.u28	Dear Vladimir Vasilovich! Dear National Deputies! Yesterday at the Conciliation Council, we agreed with you that the first question is to end the vote on pension reform. The second question is the Prosecutor's Office Act, the third question -- we were going to consider today bills, alternative three bills on release or treatment of Yulia Timoshenko. And, Vladimir Vasilovich, you promised yesterday at the Conciliation Council that decisions on parliamentary hearing recommendations would also be made not at the end of the day, but at the beginning of the day. Vladimir Vasilovich, I ask you very much, let us abide by the arrangements of those you stated on the Conciliation Council yesterday. Thank you for your attention.
ParlaMint-UA_2013-11-05-m0.u29	Faction of the Ukrainian Company, National Deputy Martinyuk. Please.
ParlaMint-UA_2013-11-05-m0.u30	Thank you. Communist faction, Martinyuk. Dear colleagues, strange indeed, the situation is: everyone is shouting "we want to work," but they don't want to confirm the order of the day. And especially those who save for the opposite of pension reform. On Friday they did their best not to discuss the matter, for there was hardly anyone in the session room. Now they're trying to do the same thing: and let's cancel, but let's not put it in the agenda. That's why it's a Pharisee. We're for, in fact, forging the agenda, where there are vicious issues: both the same pension reform, and the housing-communal issues. We'd like to add to that the questions related to 100 years since the birth of the well-known defence industry organizer, twice the Hero of Soccracy Sergeyev. And to the end. Representatives of the Communists spoke here. I'm sorry, Grandpa, who was in charge of the Lviv department circuit, what he's talking about today.
ParlaMint-UA_2013-11-05-m0.u31	The faction of the Party of the Regions. Who's speaking? Anna Herman, please. Please.
ParlaMint-UA_2013-11-05-m0.u32	Dear Mr. Head, understanding that by the time "X" time, when we should be ready to sign the Association Agreement, there is very little time left, I ask you not to react to provocations by opposition leaders who are trying to undermine Parliament's work in these responsible weeks. A few minutes ago, we heard a statement from a member of the Supreme Council, who offered to continue his work for two weeks continuously, and now they're not voting for the agenda, and they're trying to tear down issues that are very important. I would hate to say that this is a conspiracy of opposition leaders against the association, but I very much warn them against such steps. Please, Mr. Head, we will work peacefully, constructively and confidently on the path we have chosen. Thank you.
ParlaMint-UA_2013-11-05-m0.u33	Dear people's deputies, please, everyone has said, I ask you to think. And now we're going to consider the question. You think about it, and then we vote. Let us move on to making decisions from the issues under discussion that should not be included in the agenda. Dear colleagues, the draft law (registration number 2934, 2934-1) on amending certain Ukrainian legislation on the definition of pension conditions for citizens is under consideration. We were discussed at the October 25th plenary meeting on Friday, but we did not finish the discussion. Yesterday at the Conciliation Council, you raised that question. Let's do as you say, and we'll make the decision. So please prepare for the vote. Huh? Discussion. MP Paul Rosenko says we need to talk to the deputies. Please sign up with the deputies. Sign up for the MPs. Please, Fatherland faction, National Deputy Sass.
ParlaMint-UA_2013-11-05-m0.u34	Four of the factions were performing, and there wasn't a hit.
ParlaMint-UA_2013-11-05-m0.u35	Listen to Igor Grigorovich. Please, National Deputy Sas.
ParlaMint-UA_2013-11-05-m0.u36	Vladimir Vasilovich! Please give the floor to the national deputy Andrew Pavlovski.
ParlaMint-UA_2013-11-05-m0.u37	Please, Andrew Pavlovsky. By the time you get there, it'll be a minute. Please. Please, come in.
ParlaMint-UA_2013-11-05-m0.u38	Andrey Pavlovsky, faction of the "Fatherland" party of the politically imprisoned Yulia Timoshenko. Respectable compatriots! Now we're going to vote on an important issue about the retirement provision of our citizens. And the members of our faction, Ludmila Denisov, Andry Senchenko, Irina Kupreitczyk, passed a bill that is proposed to effectively restore justice for women who are now to retire for five years and to give them their pension at 55 years of age. Similarly, the bill proposes to reduce by 10 years the minimum insurance service required to receive this pitiful pension, because the so-called reform of Azarov has increased everyone, both women and men, by 10 years in order to receive this pension. And now men have to work for not less than 35 years, but women 25. We must restore justice to our pensioners and return to what was called a shameful pension reform. Similarly, the bill provides for the restoration of justice for working pensioners to be taken into account, not as they are now in the recalculation of pensions, but to take into account the increase in the minimum subsistence minimum over the last two years. So, my friends, this is another test of how you really care about the common people, the disadvantaged people themselves, the socially vulnerable, our older generation, about which the authorities now love. You know, you have to really help veterans, not make their pension go down. Let us restore justice and vote in favour of the opposition bill on the restoration of justice in pension security. Thank you.
ParlaMint-UA_2013-11-05-m0.u39	The faction of the Party of the Regions, National Deputy Hanna Herman. Please.
ParlaMint-UA_2013-11-05-m0.u40	Mr. Head, please pass the word to my colleague Jaroslav Sukh.
ParlaMint-UA_2013-11-05-m0.u41	Please, Jaroslav Suhi, Party of Regions
ParlaMint-UA_2013-11-05-m0.u42	Dear colleagues, in recent times there has been a negative and extremely disturbing trend in the Ukrainian Parliament. Some MPs, instead of focusing with the majority of parliament on modernizing social policy, minimizing the negative social consequences of market transformations, resort to honest speculation on the difficulties of the transition period. It's about the need to abolish measures to modernize the solidarity pension system today as a mantra, drumming both left and right, and communists, and liberals, former ministers and bankers, Deputy Prime Minister, even the former Minister of Social Policy. I would like to emphasize that destructive demagogism and politics are always very expensive for our people. Not primitive populism, but the modernization of social policy, including the modernization of a solidarity pension system that is experiencing a global crisis, awaits the election of the Supreme Council of Ukraine. What, then, did Law 3668 give society, against the basics of which all the demagogic forces of Parliament were assembled? This law has shown all over the world, showed Europe that there are political will bearers in Ukraine who are able to implement, not populist, but the necessary irrational social reforms that are fully integrated into the modern social and demographic content and are in the path of pension reforms that continue throughout the world and Europe. In spite of this, the second, regardless of the propaganda political psychosis and widespread squirm, the population in general took the new steps of pension reform with understanding. In the past year, only 7 percent of women among newly appointed pensioners benefited from their legal retirement rights at 55 years of age. Third. Last year, he showed that there were fears that rising the retirement age would leave young people out of jobs. Four. Complaints should be considered unfounded that the budget deficit of the Pension Fund is not being reduced as it pleases. Without measures, the pension and budget deficits of the Pension Fund would be even higher. In the first year, there is no need to expect a significant effect, but this effect and experience of European countries before the guarantee. Each year, every month, it will continue to grow. This situation is more and more disturbing to those political woes who are gradually losing the ability to build their political careers by parasiticizing and speculating on human problems. As far as Bill Three One is concerned, there is a rational grain for increasing the income of the Pension Fund. These bills cannot be voted on. Thank you.
ParlaMint-UA_2013-11-05-m0.u43	Thank you. The faction of the Ukrainian Company, National Deputy Gordijenko.
ParlaMint-UA_2013-11-05-m0.u44	Sergei Gordijenko, faction of the Communist Party of Ukraine, Poltavščina First and foremost. I would like to tell all of Ukraine, all the citizens who are listening to us, and my colleagues in the session room that the faction of the Ukrainian Company will support all the bills that have been registered and will be registered in the next Supreme Council of Ukraine to stop this destructive pension reform that has given our people nothing. First, and I think it's defining where the root problems are, why did we come to this pension reform? And the root of the problem lies in the 20-year harmful and criminal reforms that have led to the total destruction of Ukraine's economic potential, which today cannot provide social programs. When did this question first arise? You know, for the first time, this was the question that came up when we went around the world and asked for at least one single piece with an outstretched hand that would give us the opportunity to live here and provide for social problems, and we came to the International Monetary Fund. Who led us to the International Monetary Fund? And it was the orange names whose signatures were there that we repeatedly called in the session hall. What were the requirements of the International Monetary Fund? The requirements of the International Monetary Fund were extremely harsh – raising retirement age, implementing pension reform, raising housing and utility tariffs and so on. What did this pension reform give us? She did nothing but double the yoke for our womanhood, gave absolutely nothing and couldn't give the apriorium in its essence, because she had no economic calculations but mechanical approaches. The faction of the Company of Ukraine stressed that such ways should not be taken away from this situation. Only the growth of the economy, the removal of it from the shadows, the creation of jobs can solve this problem, but they didn't hear about it. Who then voted in favour of pension reform? I would also like to remind the people of Ukraine -- this is the Party of Regions, this is the Party of the Block of Lithuania, this is then the Reforms for the Future, they gave our people the yoke to their necks. Why are there no votes in the session room today when we constantly put and place tens and hundreds of times until reform is eliminated? Because both the authorities and the so - called opposition have decided in writing that they can't do this because they understand very well that it's going to hit their property, because they were initiators today, and they don't want to share their profits today, so they don't want it to go into the social sphere. That's why today.
ParlaMint-UA_2013-11-05-m0.u45	Finish up.
ParlaMint-UA_2013-11-05-m0.u46	Therefore, today, all honourable voters, note who will vote, who will support this pension reform, and who will vote against you and the people of Ukraine.
ParlaMint-UA_2013-11-05-m0.u47	Rizanenko, the Vitaly Klitschka faction gives the word "Paul Rosenck." You didn't come from a faction, either. Please, you have six minutes.
ParlaMint-UA_2013-11-05-m0.u48	Please, I'll take 3 minutes and 3 minutes from the Sergey Kaplin faction.
ParlaMint-UA_2013-11-05-m0.u49	Okay.
ParlaMint-UA_2013-11-05-m0.u50	Dear National Deputies! Paul Rosenco, Vitaly Caller's Faction. Obviously, it's not the first time and not the last time in this sessionary room that we're discussing the issue of pension reform, or, as the speaker from the Party of Regions said, the modernization of the so-called pension system. And the dilemma is this: that the party of power is talking a lot today about the modernization of the pension system, but it's not offering anything today. What further steps does the Party of Regions in the pension system offer today? Year of new government, year of new minister. What initiatives? Zero! Nothing! So you're satisfied with the situation where ordinary pensioners get a pension of 1,200 dollars, and VIP pensioners get a pension of 7-8-10-15 thousand dollars today. I understand that pensioners are national deputies, and that's the situation, but the strike party can't handle it. Therefore, it is clear that the issue of the imposition of justice in the pension system should become a priority for the Supreme Council of Ukraine. I would like to report that, despite the fact that the Supreme Council has not supported our bill on the only principles of pensions, last week the UDA faction has re-registered the initiative on social justice in the Ukrainian pension system, and we will submit this bill until the Supreme Council of Ukraine passes on to the only principles of pension accounting. This is primarily the case with the President of Ukraine, the national deputies of Ukraine, the members of the Government. We need to start the pension reform of ourselves, not the low-income categories of citizens. What are the main problems of the pension system today? Obviously, the first is low wages. No matter how much we say, people, you can, the Party of Regions, raise the retirement age by at least a hundred years, but you have to understand that the basis for the pension is salary. And if you retire. Ukrainian salary today is 1,500 dollars, even though it will be up to a hundred years old, but the pension will no longer be. The second is the tinning of the economy. Today, when the economy's tinnishing has reached its mass, the Pension Fund just doesn't get the resources. And that's why the strike faction introduced two bills. The first is about making changes and reducing the amount of a single social contribution and deregulation of the economy. We have to give business a chance to work, then there will be a retirement fund, then there will be pensions for Ukrainians.
ParlaMint-UA_2013-11-05-m0.u51	Thank you. It's a faction of the Ukrainian Company. Then you. We're not done yet! A faction of the Ukrainian Company, two minutes in your possession. And you have three minutes.
ParlaMint-UA_2013-11-05-m0.u52	Borita, faction of the Ukrainian Company. Dear colleagues, all of us before the elections, I want to remind you that we have made a promise to the Ukrainian people that we will consider the most effective laws that the people of Ukraine need. And right now we're looking at a bill like this, and right now we're going to see the face of each of us: who did it before the elections, and who really cares about the ordinary people of Ukraine. Dear voters, I also want to ask you to see who really supports you in this room right now. I want to say that the whole faction of communists, although it's not our faction's bill to abolish pension reform -- that we've also submitted to the Supreme Council, but we're all now voting for this bill to abolish pension reform. By discussing this bill. Of course, he's kind of returning social guarantees to our pensioners, of course, he's not quite perfect, but even though we're going to give back to some of the social guarantees that are in this bill. We'll return the retirement age to a woman under 55. We're going to change the pension system. Although I'm not going to say who's to blame for this clever, disgraceful thing right now. the infamous system of calculation. What's important to us today is to abolish this pension reform. Of course, the pension reform did not result in an analysis of 2012.
ParlaMint-UA_2013-11-05-m0.u53	Thank you. From the Vitalia Klitka faction of the people's deputy Kaplin. Three minutes. Please.
ParlaMint-UA_2013-11-05-m0.u54	Dear voters! Dear colleagues! First of all, I would like to begin my speech with the advance welcome of the majority, with the fact that today, if they succeed, the tenth will fail to abolish the shameful pension reform that has been adopted simply by the criminal part of the Ukrainian Parliament that is destroying the fate of Ukrainian women and Ukrainian men today. Secondly, I would like to respond to our colleagues from the Communist Party of Ukraine's statement and tell them to remind them that the instruction to "do not vote for the abolition of pension reform" is being received from Mikola Janović Azarov. And as you know, you voted in favour of this man, who is now in charge of improvement over the last two years in our country. And the next. I'd also like to spend some time. Arsenius Petrovich conducted the treatment for knowledge of the Rules, and I would like to do the same for pension reform. Of course, we will vote in favour of this bill, it is necessary, it is urgent, and we must all support it. But at the same time, I would like to focus on how we can resolve this retirement node in the country. Because today we have an example of 65 billion dollars a year being a deficit in the Ukrainian Pension Fund. How to find, apart from the recipes that my colleague spoke about, the solution to this problem. Of course, a direct linear solution is to increase wages, legalize them, and deregulation of the Ukrainian economy. But at the same time, I think we should give up overfunding, for example, the Ministry of Internal Affairs. Which doesn't know what he's up against, but we know what he's up against. That spends 16.2 billion dollars. From the prosecutor's office, it's 4.2 billion dollars a year. And the cost of keeping the President is 1 million dollars in just one day. I would like to tell you that we are going to Europe and we will soon cross the threshold of Europe. And at the same time, it would be a shame to talk today about 3 million Ukrainians living on a pension of less than 1,000 dollars. At the same time, we need to know that in Europe, and I would like to know that the Ukrainian pensioners, who are now being zombied by the Russian political forces, knew that the pension in Sweden, for example, is 16 thousand dollars, more faithful than 16 to 50,000 dollars, in Germany, between 10,000 and 20,000 dollars, in Britain, between 8 and 15, in Denmark, 15,000 dollars, in Luxembourg, and 25. Similarly, we would like to know that our war veterans receive the smallest pension among all the winning countries. Even Belarus gets twice as much, Russia gets three. Finland – 6,000, Britain – 10,000, Israel – 12, Czech Republic – 6. You disgrace the Ukrainians, those who chose your freedom, chose Ukraine for you, gave you those chairs in which you sit, and the wages you receive. And they actually gave you the opportunity to rob these people. Because we know that.
ParlaMint-UA_2013-11-05-m0.u55	Thank you. Peter Simonenko, one minute.
ParlaMint-UA_2013-11-05-m0.u56	Simonenko, the faction of the Company. Dear voters, I would like to remind you once again that this shameful pension reform has been voted in the Supreme Council on the demands of the International Monetary Fund. Who signed the betrayal of national interests and made a commitment to raise the Pension Fund and much more. Signed: Yushchenko, Timoshenko, Pinzenik, Stelma. This is "the heroes of the Ukrainian people" (in paws or parentheses) who are destroying all the conquests you've had. Next. They voted: the Party of Regions, the Block of Lithuania and the Block of Timoshenko. Those who had just been brought in and the People's Self-Defense was there. That means who came to the Supreme Council and who voted in favour of the International Monetary Fund. So again and again, I say that this pension reform needs to be abolished immediately, and to solve the problems that are directly related to the filling of the Pension Fund, we need to adopt the Company’s anti-crisis programme and adopt appropriate laws. Thank you.
ParlaMint-UA_2013-11-05-m0.u57	Thank you. For the final word, the People's MP Denisov is the author of the bill. Please.
ParlaMint-UA_2013-11-05-m0.u58	Dear voters, dear colleagues, dear Mr. Head! Do you know who this pension reform has touched? The pension reform has touched neither these pensioners nor the 15 million citizens who are now receiving a pension. This pension reform touched every citizen of Ukraine. It will either now or then give them the opportunity to count these coins that the state will pay them for this labor that they are now doing for this state. And soon our state, if we don't cancel this pension reform, will be a state of minimum pensions, because I want to make it clear to you that there is nowhere to get the insurance required for the appointment of the minimum pension, which is today for women - 30 and for men - 35 years, because today 7 million of our citizens are working in other states, 1.6 million citizens are unemployed and only 422,000 are getting some assistance from the state for unemployment. So I respect you very much, dear colleagues from the Party of Regions, but you're warm, you're all dressed up, you don't count a penny when you go to restaurants because you have a high salary because you have other incomes. But there are people who count these coins every day and think they're going to buy the leftovers that they have left behind after they pay for utilities. And as for Mr. Simonenko, the memorandum, I would like to remind you once again that in July 2011 and March, in April 2010, the government of Timoshenko was no longer working. A memorandum in which the authorities clearly assume an obligation to increase their age, increase their internships was signed by Yanukovic, Azarov, and everyone present. You don't need a line, I'll bring you this memo after the break and you'll see. Honorable national MPs, honourable voters, are now going to make a strategic decision, or be citizens, will be citizens of Ukraine, will be the state of Ukraine, or there will be no state of Ukraine, because there will be no people living in that state. I really want you to support me.
ParlaMint-UA_2013-11-05-m0.u59	Thank you. [[Applause]] Let's move on to making a decision. I'll bet you a vote. After you make your decision, I'll give you a line, a minute. I am voting on the draft Act (Registration No. 2934) amending certain Ukrainian legislation on the definition of the conditions for the pension of citizens to be accepted as a basis. People's deputies please identify themselves. Vote. [[11:14:57]] For 216 Against 0, holding back 24, not voting 164. The decision is not taken. The factions. Ladies and gentlemen, what are they shouting for? The Party of Regions voted in favour of the Law – 2, Parenthood – 90, Vitalia Klicka – 34, Freedom – 33, Company – 29, non-fractional – 28. I'm betting on a second bill, a bill (registration number 2934-1) to amend some of Ukraine's laws (to improve pension insurance) for adoption as a basis. People's deputies, please vote. [[11:16:20]] For 215 Against – 1, held – 22, did not vote – 170. The decision is not taken. The factions. Region Party 5, Parentage Party 90, Vitalia Klicka Hit 33, Freedom 27, Company 31, non-fractional 29. Please, a minute of reply, a faction of the Ukrainian Company, Simonenko.
ParlaMint-UA_2013-11-05-m0.u60	Simonenko, the faction of the Company. I will present the previous report, the draft law's author tomorrow, presenting my draft law on the abolition of pension reform, and I will read a memorandum that has been signed by those people who have already said, "Jushchenko, Timoshenko, Pinzenik and Stelma, which reads: "In view of the increasing and increasing life expectancy of citizens in Ukraine, we will decide on the increase in retirement age." I read it to you so you know what you're talking about. So, honourable citizens of Ukraine, I would argue again that this orange team has made a decision by signing agreements with the International Monetary Fund on the enslavement of the Ukrainian people, and practically this pension reform. There they promised to raise the retirement age, raise prices, reduce funding for social projects -- it's all this team.
ParlaMint-UA_2013-11-05-m0.u61	Dear National Deputies, the draft Law (Registration No. 0886) on the Public Prosecutor’s Office is under consideration. The Law Enforcement Committee proposes the adoption of a Decree (Registration No. 0886p) on the withdrawal of a draft Ukrainian Procurator’s Act. How will we view it? Please, I'm sorry. I'm sorry. I'm sorry. Who Supports? Please vote. [[11:18:55]] For 172, against 67, held 14, not voted 164. Decision taken. The factions. Region Party - 167, Fatherland - 1, Vitalia Klicka - 0, Freedom - 0, Companies - 0, non-fractional - 4. I would like to ask the chairman of the Committee on the Law Enforcement of Andrija Anatoliyovich Cosemyakin. Won't you go? You don't have to! Let's move on. It's under review.
ParlaMint-UA_2013-11-05-m0.u62	Dear colleagues.
ParlaMint-UA_2013-11-05-m0.u63	Please.
ParlaMint-UA_2013-11-05-m0.u64	Dear colleagues! Skinnykin, head of the Motherland faction committee. You can see that again we have a party of powers sitting here today, and the faction in this room is trying to bend over the knee. I want to tell you that our faction insists and will insist that there should be a confirmed timetable and order of the day. This is not because there is a Rules today, there is a regulatory norm and a law. Yesterday on the committee, you know which one should have considered the three bills that were just included in the agenda and were voted in this room, destroyed by the faction of the Party of Regions, it didn't come. That is to say, they do not care what fate Ukraine will have with Ukraine, whether Ukraine will go to the European Union or not. Now it's clear to everyone who's playing this game and who's not. It is clear to everyone who launched this technology after the collapse of the association of the signing of the agreement between Ukraine and the European Union. Therefore, Your Honor Vladimir Vasilovich, I will not report this decree, this bill, because you are violating the Rules. Thank you.
ParlaMint-UA_2013-11-05-m0.u65	Thank you. Ladies and gentlemen, we have professors there, along with Yatzenuk, under the Rules. So I want to read it. Don't scream! Let me read it to you and then you'll scream. "To the order of the day session. - I'm reading article 20, take the material part and look. Order of the day, article 20. - To the agenda of the day session of the Supreme Council. they shall be included in an extra-curricular manner, without a vote." Do you understand? I read paragraph 3: "The drafts that are being prepared are prepared for the appointment of the Supreme Council for the second or third reading." Law 0886 is discussed in the second reading. I've announced. What else do you need, tell me?Oh, my God! Yesterday you emphasized that we should consider the second reading, what are you doing? Once again, I announced that the draft Law was under consideration. Wait! I announced a draft law on the Public Prosecutor's Office (second reading). A motion for a motion for a removal committee, what else is needed? We made a decision after a reduced procedure, the reporter reported. Please sign up for statements under this law by factions. Please sign up. Please, Fatherland faction, National Deputy Golovko.
ParlaMint-UA_2013-11-05-m0.u66	Please pass the word to Sasu.
ParlaMint-UA_2013-11-05-m0.u67	Please, National Deputy Sas.
ParlaMint-UA_2013-11-05-m0.u68	Thank you. Dear Vladimir Vasilovich! Dear colleagues! Ladies and gentlemen, I would like to draw your very attention to the observance of the Rules of Procedure Act, which you should be guided by. So I'm going to read you a rule in part five of article 25 of the Rules, which provides that the issue of the agenda of the daily plenary meeting of the Supreme Council of Ukraine, which remained pending in the plenary session, is being considered by the Supreme Council first at the plenary meeting of the Supreme Council next. That's the rule of law! So, Vladimir Vasilovich, you should have been the ones who, on the 23rd plenary meeting last Friday, had not been considered, now to consider first, and then to consider issues that could already be considered without inclusion, as you have just called the norm of article 20. So I demand, Vladimir Vasilovich, let's look at the pension reform to the end and all the other issues, and then we'll move on. These questions are included in the agenda. Thank you.
ParlaMint-UA_2013-11-05-m0.u69	Yesterday at the Conciliation Council, you asked for the first questions to be considered by the Procurator's Act. Yesterday at the Conciliation Council, we turned it on. And the 0886 Law was legally incorporated into our consideration. So let's think about it. Please, the Vitalia Klitschka faction, the People's Deputy of Mochkov.
ParlaMint-UA_2013-11-05-m0.u70	Please pass the word to Chumaku Victor.
ParlaMint-UA_2013-11-05-m0.u71	Please. What do you mean, Victor Chumak, please.
ParlaMint-UA_2013-11-05-m0.u72	Victor Chumak, 214 constituency, Kyiv city, Dniprovsky district, UDA party. Vladimir Vasilovich, we agreed that only after considering all the issues left over from Friday do we go to the consideration of all the questions raised today. What's more, I'm asking you very much, you don't have to manipulate the Rules. A number of times, the Rules are violated. We're ready to consider this law, we're ready to go, in order to open the normal Procuratorial Act, a Euro-integration, necessary. But let's stick to the Rules anyway. Thank you.
ParlaMint-UA_2013-11-05-m0.u73	The faction of the Party of Regions, the National Deputy of Popescu.
ParlaMint-UA_2013-11-05-m0.u74	Thank you. Sand, faction of the Party of the Regions. The great colleagues, here, are constantly buzzing with Euro-Integration slogans, constantly using any excuse to show what you are, the pro-European MPs. But what I want to remind you is that, once it comes to specifics, when we have to vote on the relevant laws that allow us to move forward, the opposition is always looking for any reason to block it. I want to remind you, this was when we adopted the new Criminal Procedure Act, which was when we passed the new Law on Lawyers, when you didn't vote. Today, when we need to withdraw this bill, which, by the way, and the missing table for second readings, is no change to the Constitution, there is no solution to what has been adopted since 1990, when we joined the Council of Europe, in accordance with Council of Europe conclusions 190, you are again looking for a reason not to vote. We propose to take this off the table, this bill, to open the way for us to consider a bill on the prosecution, which has already passed the conclusions of the Venice Commission, and we can put it into the room to vote. If you keep blocking that, it means that you're working for those who are opposed to European integration, and everything else is a bulwark for your own narrow-party problems. Thank you.
ParlaMint-UA_2013-11-05-m0.u75	Freedom Union, National Deputy Leonov.
ParlaMint-UA_2013-11-05-m0.u76	Please pass the word to Andrey Mishchenk.
ParlaMint-UA_2013-11-05-m0.u77	Pass it on, please.
ParlaMint-UA_2013-11-05-m0.u78	Andrew Mishchenko, All-Ukrainian Freedom Union. This is a very important issue, but we ask that it not be dealt with in violation of the Constitution of Ukraine and the Rules. Thank you.
ParlaMint-UA_2013-11-05-m0.u79	I beg you, the faction of the Party of the Regions, the People's Deputies of Miroshnichenko.
ParlaMint-UA_2013-11-05-m0.u80	Dear colleagues, since you and I have not approved the agenda for this plenary week and we are actually considering this law in the second reading, I would like to ask the Head of the Supreme Council to put to the vote not a decision to revoke the registration of this law and to withdraw it from consideration, but the laws in their second reading. I mean, if he gets 226 votes, he'll stay. If he doesn't get 226, he'll be rejected, and then the President will have the opportunity to register with the Venice Commission the Public Prosecutor's Act in a new edition. Thank you for your attention.
ParlaMint-UA_2013-11-05-m0.u81	Did you get the offer? [[B in m in s a l in]] May I put it to a vote? [[B in m in s a l in]] Ladies and gentlemen, you've overheated. Break 15 minutes before making a decision. The faction leaders are requested to enter the office of the Chief of Staff of the Supreme Council. It's a 15-minute break.
ParlaMint-UA_2013-11-05-m0.u82	In connection with the arrest of a member of the Watch Tower Bible and Tract Society of New York, Canada, the United Kingdom, After the break, we will consider the decrees regarding the appointment and release of judges.
ParlaMint-UA_2013-11-05-m0.u83	Ladies and gentlemen, we are continuing our meeting. I'm asking for your attention! Please sit down and pay attention. At the Conciliation Council with the faction leaders, we agreed to consider and make a decision on the Procurator's Act, and the chairman of the committee, Andrew Cosemyakin, will speak for two minutes and make an offer. The other one. The four laws that are on the committee: after the treatment of the convicts, according to Yulia Timoshenko, which will take place on Wednesday, we will consider the morning of Thursday 4 laws at the morning session first on Thursday. So what's the offer now? After a minute, I'll give the word to the faction leaders, they'll express their thoughts, then we'll finish the matter of the prosecution, we'll vote, then we'll consider the question of judges, then we'll confirm the agenda, and we'll work on it. Do we have a deal? It's a deal. I beg you, the faction leaders per minute. Who? Arsenius Yatzenuk, please.
ParlaMint-UA_2013-11-05-m0.u84	Mr. Head, the country's distinguished national deputies, so on Thursday we are starting a plenary day to consider the Labunsky bill and other laws that are defined for the liberation of Yulia Timoshenko. Today we are voting to allow for the registration of Ukraine's Procuratorial Act, including the law prepared by the three leaders of the opposition factions. And the third. Tomorrow, all members of the Party of the Regions will appear to hold meetings and determine the need for the adoption of the Law on the Liberation of Yulia Timoshenko and the signing of the Agreement with the European Union. Under these circumstances, we vote in favour of the Procuratorial Act, and under these circumstances, we vote in favour of the schedule for this plenary week. Once again, the first law on Thursday is the law of Labunski on the liberation of Timoshenko.
ParlaMint-UA_2013-11-05-m0.u85	Thank you. Is there a need for faction leaders to continue speaking? You won't? Please, I beg you, Oleg Tuggnibok. Please have a minute.
ParlaMint-UA_2013-11-05-m0.u86	Oleg Tuggnibok, faction of the All-Ukrainian Freedom Union. Respectful association, well, it's probably not time to wrap candy in paper and tell one another to do another, but to think the third, as is the case here in Parliament very often. Today it is absolutely clear that for many countries of the European Union that will adopt decisions, whether positive or not, or negative, in Ukraine, the issue of Tymoshenko is fundamental. Because for them, there is a human rights cult in those lands. And that's why Timoshenko's question will be solved -- the association will be signed, it won't be solved, it'll be liked or not, the Association won't be signed. So, of course, the opposition will support any proposals coming from the European side. And now it's about the Party of Regions. Because it is up to you, the authorities, to your political will and your political position. If you are.
ParlaMint-UA_2013-11-05-m0.u87	Thank you. Peter Simonenko, please.
ParlaMint-UA_2013-11-05-m0.u88	Simonenko, the faction of the Company. It's about human worship. I would like us to understand that we should have a cult of 45 million Ukrainian citizens who are looking for an answer, why does Europe remain silent and not make demands for Ukraine to sign the Association Agreement when billions of oligarchs, including those present in this room, do not pay their wages? Why is Europe silent today when, according to the law, we have children of war, Afghans, Chernobylers do not get what they need? Why is Europe silent when the Constitution, which provides for free education and medicine for Ukrainian citizens, is not being followed? That's what I'm worried about today. Why isn't the 45 million-million-dollar cult of Europe of today at all interested in the same Europe? So the Company's faction insists that we consider today's abolition of pension reform, the abolition of medical reform, to consider a communist project on a moratorium on price increases and tariffs. This is the main question of worship today, so that Ukraine is indeed a Ukraine, not a beggar in Europe.
ParlaMint-UA_2013-11-05-m0.u89	Thank you. Please, Alexander Sergiyovich Efraemov. You're not the faction manager yet.
ParlaMint-UA_2013-11-05-m0.u90	Thank you, Vladimir Vasilovich. The Party of the Regions supports your proposals made on the Conciliation Council. And we invite our colleagues from the opposition to cooperation, not to the search for problems and mutual images. Thank you. We're ready to work.
ParlaMint-UA_2013-11-05-m0.u91	It's Vitaly Call's Faction. Please, the head of the Vitaly Klitschko faction.
ParlaMint-UA_2013-11-05-m0.u92	Once again, the law that we must vote on, Labunski, depends on a great deal. It depends very much on Euro-integration and whether Julia Timoshenko is released or not, whether someone likes it or not. We realize that there is not much time left before Vilnius, and we realize that it is not possible to delay time. So the proposal was, and, Volodymyr Vasilovich, you agreed to put the law into consideration (3497) to continue working for two weeks.
ParlaMint-UA_2013-11-05-m0.u93	It's a deal. I invite the head of the committee, Andrew Cosemiakin. Two minutes. Please.
ParlaMint-UA_2013-11-05-m0.u94	Thank you. Honorary colleagues, the Committee on Law Enforcement, considered the sixth vocation of Ukraine’s National Deputies Bill on the Prosecutor’s Office, which now has number 0886. I want to remind you that efforts to reform the Public Prosecutor's Office have been made before. For example, in the third, fourth, fifth, convocations of such bills to Parliament, there were seven. However, all these bills, according to European experts, were recognized as not intended to reform the existing system of prosecutors. The Venice Commission has repeatedly pointed out that the Prosecutor’s Office remains a powerful institution whose functions far exceed the scope of the functions performed by the Prosecutor in a democratic, legal state. This institute was called the Soviet-type prosecutor's office. In the sixth call to the committee, Bill No. 2491 was drafted as a result of committee hearings on the topic "The position and role of the prosecutor in the system of the Ukrainian authorities" and took into account separate positions from the conclusions of the Venice Commission on previous similar projects. Bill No. 2491 was adopted on first reading as a basis in April 2009. During 2008-2012, the committee carried out its work by collecting and holding round tables, scientific and practical conferences, or working on the bill. But since the adoption of the bill, legal regulation has changed significantly. First. The previous edition of the Constitution of Ukraine came into force and a new Criminal Procedure Code was adopted. Thus, the bill in this edition, which was adopted in the first reading, became obsolete. In accordance with Rule 106 of the Rules, Bill 2491 was introduced into the agenda for consideration by the Supreme Council of the Seventh Call under the heading 0886. On April 17, 2013, the committee approved the contents of the comparative table of Law 0886 in a new edition, taking into account the wishes of the Venice Commission.
ParlaMint-UA_2013-11-05-m0.u95	Finish up.
ParlaMint-UA_2013-11-05-m0.u96	At the same time, a bill was sent to you for consideration by the Venice Commission, as you well know, which was drafted by a working group at the Ukrainian Presidential Administration. In addition, in October 2012, there was a positive conclusion by the 667th Venice Commission on the Procuratorial Act, which is currently being developed by the Commission for the Strengthening of Democracy and the Consolidation of the Rule of Law. This project is very basic, and it's for 0886, and it's for both the President's Administration and the opposition today. Therefore, honourable colleagues, the committee approved the decision to recommend to the Supreme Council of Ukraine draft Law No. 0886 on Prosecutor's Office, to remove and take into account its position in the drafting of other bills. Thank you for your attention.
ParlaMint-UA_2013-11-05-m0.u97	Thank you. Let's move on to making a decision. I'm betting on the vote, distinguished national MPs. Run, run, please! I'm betting on a draft Decree (Registration No. 0886) on the withdrawal of the draft Ukrainian Procuratorship Act for adoption as a basis and as a whole. People's deputies, please vote. [[12:42:33]] For 322 Against - 0, held - 0, did not vote - 93. Decision taken. The factions. Region Party 170, Parenthood 67, Vitalia Klicka, 31, Freedom 33, Company 0, non-fractional 21. Ladies and gentlemen, I propose the approval of the weekly schedule of plenary meetings on November 5-8. You have this schedule. Add the Order of the Supreme Council of Ukraine to be considered this week 3497. People's deputies, please. [[B in m in s a l in]] In the weekly order of the day, the four laws are written first on the fourth. Please, Arsenius Jacinyuk's microphone. Make it up.
ParlaMint-UA_2013-11-05-m0.u98	Mr. Head! I wanted to remind you again what you and I agreed to do in your office. We put the bills to the vote on Thursday in the following order: the first bill, as stipulated in the timetable here, is Bill 3461 of the People's Deputies of Labunsk: amending Article 84 of the Criminal Code. And on a daily basis, just as you have a week’s schedule at the Department of the Supreme Council. So I'm just asking you to confirm this, our agreement.
ParlaMint-UA_2013-11-05-m0.u99	The MPs got it? I'm betting on a weekly vote, with the addition of the Head of the Fatherland faction, to the draft Decree 3497. People's deputies, please vote. The weekly schedule. [[12:44:43]] For – 366 Against 0, held – 1, not a vote – 50. Decision taken. The factions. All factions voted. Dear National Deputies! The question of the election and release of judges is being considered. So let's move on to the question of the election of judges. I invite the head of the High Qualifying Commission of Judges Igor Leonovich Samsin to report. The draft Regulation 3446 is under consideration. Report.
ParlaMint-UA_2013-11-05-m0.u100	Dear Volodymyr Vasilovich, distinguished national deputies! According to article 80, part one, part one, article 128 of the Constitution of Ukraine, article 78 of the Law on the Judiciary and the Status of Judges, I introduce the application of the Supreme Qualifications Commission of judges of Ukraine and its decisions on recommending candidates for judges on an indefinite basis. Draft Order on the Election of Judges (No. 3446). To elect judges who were previously elected on an open-ended basis as judges: The Supreme Court of Ukraine, Simonenko, Valentina Mikolayevna; The Supreme Economic Court of Gorbachev Lydia Pavlovna. However, the honourable chairman, the High Qualifying Commission, made a statement to Lydia Paulina that she withdrew her application and did not wish to be recommended for election to this judge, so please exclude her from the ruling.
ParlaMint-UA_2013-11-05-m0.u101	We exclude Lydia Pavlovna Gorbachev from the ruling. Let's go.
ParlaMint-UA_2013-11-05-m0.u102	The Court of Appeal of the Luhansk district of Zinchenko Tetian Alexiyevna Please also exclude from the decision of Bukrey Sergey Panasovich in view of his failure to attend the plenary meeting of the Supreme Council.
ParlaMint-UA_2013-11-05-m0.u103	Let's take that question off the record.
ParlaMint-UA_2013-11-05-m0.u104	The Court of Appeal of the Lviv Region of Chief Vasil Jaroslavovich; The Court of Appeal of the Plains District of Maximchuk Zou Mikitovna; The Court of Appeal of the Hmeljna District of Fedorov Natalija Alexandrovna; The Court of Appeal of Sevastopol Kabal Igor Ivanovich; Dnipropetrov's Court of Appeal of Krugów Aleksandrovitch; The Kyiv Court of Appeal, Epel Oksana Volodymyrna; Lviv Court of Appeal, Shinkar Tetjana Igorovna: Kharkiv Court of Appeal for Refugees Armen Olegi. Item two. Choose judges on an untimely basis: Kazankov District Court of the Mikolai district of Itsuk Andrija Volodymirovich; Bilgorod-Dnistrov City Court of Odessa, Shevchuk Yuli Valeriyevna; The Suvorov District Court of Odessa Bodnar Sergey Mikolayovich; Alain Andriyevna, Franciska Yuri Volodymirovic, District Court of the Hersonian district; The Komsomol district court of Herson Prokhorenko Victoria Volodymyrna; Shevchenkov District Court of Kiev Hardin Oxan Petrovna
ParlaMint-UA_2013-11-05-m0.u105	Thank you. Is there a note in the National Deputies? Please, National Deputy Odarchenko.
ParlaMint-UA_2013-11-05-m0.u106	Vladimir Vasilovich, I want to remind you again that there is a Supreme Court decision. The decision of the European Court of Human Rights regarding the renewal of Mr. Alexander Volkov. Today we decide to put the Supreme Court judge Simonenko on leave. We answered the European Court of Justice that we have no vacancies, but now that we are in violation of this decision, we are putting another person in this position. Vladimir Vasilovich, I would like to remind you that it is clearly stated in the European Court of Justice that the damage to Mr. Alexander Volkov is being paid for every day of his work. The same decision we have today can cause damage to Ukraine’s budget. Therefore, I ask you to remove the question of Mrs Simonenko from the list pending a decision by the European Court of Justice.
ParlaMint-UA_2013-11-05-m0.u107	I am. Honourable National Deputy Odarchenko, here is the letter Igor Leonović Samsin, where he writes that "there are two vacant seats for judges in the courts of Ukraine on 5 November 2013 in the Supreme Court of Ukraine, one of which is recommended for election on an open-ended basis by the Supreme Court of Ukraine." So there's a proposal not to delete Simonenko's candidacy. As for Volkov's candidacy, Igor Leonovich, I'm asking you to explain.
ParlaMint-UA_2013-11-05-m0.u108	Well, as you pointed out, this is my official letter. These two positions are vacant today. In fact, there are 48 judges in the Supreme Court, in fact 46 judges. The execution of the judgment of the European Court of Justice does not apply to the Higher Qualifications Commission. The Higher Qualifying Commission of any rights has not violated the judge, so we are not the subject that executes this decision. As for Judge Simoneka, I gave an explanation. One vacant seat in the Supreme Court is, and it will be, and no one will.
ParlaMint-UA_2013-11-05-m0.u109	There's a question -- there's an answer. I ask and prepare for the vote. Ladies and gentlemen, prepare for the vote. Take your seats and vote with your cards. I'm betting on the vote of the Order (number 3446) on the election of judges on the temporary removal of the names of Lydia Pavlovna Gorbachev and Sergey Opanasovich Boukreya for the selection of judges on an indefinite basis. Please vote. [[12:52:05]] For 249, Against 5, held – 10, not voted – 140. Decision taken. The factions. Region Party 178, Fatherland 0, Vitaly Klicka 23, Freedom 0, Company 29, non-fractional 19. All the decisions we had to elect judges, we considered. And let's welcome the judges who are elected on an untimely basis, and wish us success in the work. [[Applause]] Let us now consider the question of the release of judges. I invite you to report to the deputy head of the High Council of Justice, Alexander Sergiyovich Udovicenko.
ParlaMint-UA_2013-11-05-m0.u110	I got a call from Lavrinovich, he's at the meeting right now with the President of Ukraine. Please report. I'll tell you what, 3447-1.
ParlaMint-UA_2013-11-05-m0.u111	According to article 126, part five, paragraph 5, of the Constitution of Ukraine, the Supreme Council decides to release Kurenkov Evgen Sergiyovich from office as Judge of the Darnitsky District Court of Kiev, in connection with a violation of the judge’s oath.
ParlaMint-UA_2013-11-05-m0.u112	Are there any warnings from whom? Please, National Deputy Odarchenko. And Javorovsky will help him. 30 seconds.
ParlaMint-UA_2013-11-05-m0.u113	Vladimir Vasilovich, please tell me, why don't you now consider violating Judge Kiriev's oath? The European Court of Human Rights has made it clear that according to Timoshenko’s judgment regarding her illegal arrest of Judge Kiriev was prejudiced. Prejudice and arrest were totally illegal. Moreover, it is obvious that he was appointed illegally to the position of Judge Pechersky.
ParlaMint-UA_2013-11-05-m0.u114	Can I answer that?
ParlaMint-UA_2013-11-05-m0.u115	Yes, come in.
ParlaMint-UA_2013-11-05-m0.u116	It's about Judge Kiriev. There's a whole line.
ParlaMint-UA_2013-11-05-m0.u117	We're not looking at Kiriev right now. We're talking about Kurenko's Eugene Sergiyovich. What's Kiriev doing here? [[B in m in s a l in]] Ladies and gentlemen, do you understand? I'll bet you a vote. May I have a moment, national deputy Yavorowski?
ParlaMint-UA_2013-11-05-m0.u118	Vladimir Yavorowski, Trinity, Fatherland. Dear Volodymyr Vasilovich, well, first of all, we heard from a report that he broke his oath. An oath is a unified, broad, very framework, a framework oath, an oath and so on. We want to know, whether to vote or not, what he has broken his oath and whether he is present today, let him say what. Come on! And, Vladimir Vasilovich, well, you're wrong about that. What's Kiriev doing here?
ParlaMint-UA_2013-11-05-m0.u119	Yeah.
ParlaMint-UA_2013-11-05-m0.u120	Today we are discussing judges, tomorrow they will decide our fate and the fate of our fellow citizens, and we must look at every judge, know him thoroughly. This is our right, it is our duty. That's why I want to hear what he's breaking his oath and listening to him, he's entitled to it, even he's in court, the defendant has a right to a final word, especially when it comes to a judge.
ParlaMint-UA_2013-11-05-m0.u121	Please answer.
ParlaMint-UA_2013-11-05-m0.u122	Judge Kurenkov systematically failed to take action and to refer cases to the court’s office, the appeals office, and did not take action to establish a legal term. In this regard, there were numerous complaints from citizens, both to the Higher Qualifying Commission and to the High Council of Justice. I'll remind you, I reported to this judge at the last meeting, and I'll remind you, for these violations to Judge Kurenkov, the Higher Qualifying Commission was initially used twice as a seduction in the form of a catch. It didn't have any results. Next. Since this has continued for decades, hundreds of cases have not been referred in violation of the citizens ’ right to access justice, to an appeal, and a recommendation to release the judge has been adopted in connection with this High Qualification Commission. In the Higher Council of Justice, this decision of the High Qualifying Commission was tested, there was such order, not tested, but examined, and the Superior Council of Justice agreed with him. Hence, this proposal is made: To release him for breaking an oath. Judge in the hall. If the Head of the Supreme Council gives.
ParlaMint-UA_2013-11-05-m0.u123	Thank you. Thank you. Please, Eugene Kurenkov, please.
ParlaMint-UA_2013-11-05-m0.u124	From the age of 22, he was normal, and in two years he became a bad judge. This can already be concluded. The other one. The gift, the assignment, the subpoena, is the secretary's mandate. I used the reports to address the head of the court on several occasions. But for their violations, there is an imposition on a judge. I've prepared the materials. I sent to the Supreme Council a set for every photo MP, with documents. You get that. And then you'll make your decision. Why am I bad? Because I didn't give up my job security.
ParlaMint-UA_2013-11-05-m0.u125	Thank you. Do you understand, national MPs? We're not the investigating committee here. We heard who was being released, we heard the conclusion. I'll bet you a vote. I'm betting on a draft decision of the Supreme Council of Ukraine 3447-1 on the release of Judge Kurenkov Evgen Sergiyovich. People's deputies, please vote. [[12:59:16]] For 206 Against 16, held – 31, not voted – 147. The decision is not taken. The factions. The faction of regions is 173, Fatherland is 0, Vitaly Klicka is 0, Freedom is 0, Company is 29, non-fractional is 14. Regulation (No. 3516) is being considered.
ParlaMint-UA_2013-11-05-m0.u126	3516 and 2. According to article 126, part five, paragraph 5, of the Constitution of Ukraine, to release Kushner Natalija Vitaliyovna from the position of judge at the Ravenna District Court in connection with the breach of an oath. But here, honourable national MPs, I have a note and a request to withdraw today from consideration. The judge was informed, but she did not appear, and she is not in the hall, nor are we aware of the reasons for her lack of appearance.
ParlaMint-UA_2013-11-05-m0.u127	There's an offer to take off. Copy that. Next. You're looking at the 35th, what's your number?
ParlaMint-UA_2013-11-05-m0.u128	3516 with 3 badges.
ParlaMint-UA_2013-11-05-m0.u129	Come on. 3516-3. Report.
ParlaMint-UA_2013-11-05-m0.u130	According to article 126, part five, paragraph 5, of the Constitution of Ukraine, to release Marquislav Igorovich from office as judge of the Red Guard District Court of Makyivka Donetské region in connection with a violation of the Judges ’ oath.
ParlaMint-UA_2013-11-05-m0.u131	What is it, an oath of what?
ParlaMint-UA_2013-11-05-m0.u132	The violation was committed by a judge, considering a non-reliable arbitral tribunal ruling relative to property located in Kiev, a total area of 423.6 square feet [423.6 sq m] on the Obalonia Coast. The judge went beyond the limits of both the external requirements and the requirements of material, procedural law, declared the decision to be valid, and in his own decision he declared ownership of the property. These are gross violations that have led to significant consequences: the deprivation of ownership of the property of the persons concerned.
ParlaMint-UA_2013-11-05-m0.u133	People's deputy Odarchenka has a question. Please.
ParlaMint-UA_2013-11-05-m0.u134	Thank you. Vladimir Vasilovich, the recently administrative court in Kiev, has decided to secure Gerego as city council secretary and city chief until 2015, and has continued his decision to authorize the Kiev Council until 2015, thereby taking the opportunity to influence the election of the Supreme Council and the President of Ukraine. And there are no strings attached to these judges. It's just an absurd decision. He was crowned by the court until 2015, and no decisions are taken against him for breaking his oath. It's a disgrace. It seems to me that this decision, it's absolutely the point of the case in this court, is exactly the same because the administrative court in Kiev was taking on the Kiev City Council and on Gereza. I'd like you to consider this, too.
ParlaMint-UA_2013-11-05-m0.u135	Honorable National Deputy Yuri Odarchenko, what does this have to do with Judge Markelov Rostislav Igorovich? What is the attitude? I'm betting on the vote of the Order (number 3516-3) on the release of Marquislav Igorovich. I'd like you to identify the national MPs. Vote. [[13:03:30]] For-230, against - 1, held - 12, not voted - 157. Decision taken. The factions. Draft Decree (No. 3516-1) is under consideration. Please.
ParlaMint-UA_2013-11-05-m0.u136	The Supreme Council of Justice, in accordance with paragraphs 3, 4 of Part Five, Article 126 of Article 121 of the Constitution, proposes that the relevant articles be released from the judges’ office: The Supreme Economic Court of Ukraine Zarjek Anastasia Alexiyevna in connection with the application for resignation; the Court of Appeal of the Autonomous Republic of Crimea Kuntsov Vladimir Aleksandrovič in connection with the application for resignation; The meat of Tetian Mikolayevna in connection with the application for resignation; the Court of Appeal of the Dnipropetrov Region of Turik Valentine Porfirovna in relation to the application for resignation; the Court of Appeal of the Kyiv Region of Laszczenk Viktor Diodorovich in connection with the application for resignation; Court of Appeal of Kharkiv Region: Bull's Larisa Petrovich, due to his resignation application, Brice's Anatolia Petrovich, in connection with his resignation application, Kiselov Grigorija Stepanović, in connection with his resignation application; Donetsk’s Court of Appeal, Manjour Valentina Vasilovna, in connection with the application for resignation. The First-Major District Court of the Autonomous Republic of Crimea of Zabar Galin Jakovna in connection with the application for resignation. Vasilkov District Court of the Dnipropetrov district of Usakowa Ninel Eugenyevna in connection with the application for resignation. The County City Court of the Donetsk Region of Copil Svetlana Eugene in connection with the application for resignation. The Solomonian District Court of Kyiv Oksutu Taras Grigorovich, in view of the impossibility of exercising his health authority. The Lord's Court of the Dnipropetrov region of the Bodilovsky Maria Mikhaylovna in connection with the application for resignation. Kadar Josif Josifovich, head of the Zacarpathian District Court, in connection with the application for resignation.
ParlaMint-UA_2013-11-05-m0.u137	Does the National Deputies have a point? Please, Sergey Sobolev.
ParlaMint-UA_2013-11-05-m0.u138	Dear reporter, I have an appeal to you, to the Ministry of Finance and to the Head of the Supreme Council. So someone understands the logic, why don't the judges retire and apply for retirement? If you or the Ministry of Finance don't know that, I'll explain the scheme. If the judge goes to retirement, he gets, like, one-and-a-half less pension than if he goes to a retirement application. How long is this going to take? Does the State have any extra funds? You look at these questions all the time, nobody raises them. Where is the head of the Kiwalov Committee? Why is there no change to the Budget Act? How long is this going to take? In my opinion, just as the judge is appointed, everyone here has to be and explain that this disease all of a sudden started in Ukraine, why do judges die mass and apply for resignation? We need to make immediate changes to the Court of Justice Act and court funding, and then there won't be any need for that. Thank you.
ParlaMint-UA_2013-11-05-m0.u139	Thank you. Please.
ParlaMint-UA_2013-11-05-m0.u140	Honorable national deputies, the vast majority of these judges, have reached 65 years of age, the vast majority, and they have the right to resign according to the existing legislation that is in force today. If changes are made to the law, they can only retire at their own request. Therefore, it is necessary to change the law.
ParlaMint-UA_2013-11-05-m0.u141	Odarchenko, please.
ParlaMint-UA_2013-11-05-m0.u142	Vladimir Vasilovich! What is "predominant majority"? We can see from the materials that we have on our hands: of the eight judges, only two have the right age. Why lie to the high court of the Supreme Council? It's not a simple man to tell us. Why introduce MPs and the entire Ukrainian community into deception by means of such simple, "non-significant" manipulations of facts? What does "most" mean? Let me explain why 20 out of eight are the majority.
ParlaMint-UA_2013-11-05-m0.u143	Please.
ParlaMint-UA_2013-11-05-m0.u144	Maybe I was wrong here because I don't have a year to retire. So if I'm not correct, I'm sorry. But once again, the right to apply for resignation is a judge's right. The Supreme Council merely checks the availability of appropriate work experience, and the Supreme Council of Justice cannot refuse to submit such an application to the Supreme Council for effective legislation.
ParlaMint-UA_2013-11-05-m0.u145	Please, People's Deputy Pisarenko.
ParlaMint-UA_2013-11-05-m0.u146	Dear Vladimir Vasilovich! Dear colleagues! You know, we're about to agree on something that we're going to need to bring in a fortification among the judges. How is it that we cannot grant judges the right to resign? So the judge has to decide whether he wants to work or not. But in addition, Vladimir Vasilovich, honourable colleagues, I would like to draw your attention to the fact that today we received proposals from three factions to the Committee on Legal Policy, and their view of judicial reform, from "The Fatherland", "The Strike" and "Freedom". So in this view, as in the Presidential Bill, there is such a rule that the Supreme Council has no effect whatsoever on the question of the appointment and release of judges. This is a project that today. And a proposal that came from a hundred percent of the deputies who were here, maybe I'm not talking about non-factional. So let us show our European vector today and trust those judicial bodies that present us here on the rostrum today. Thank you.
ParlaMint-UA_2013-11-05-m0.u147	Thank you. It's the voting bill of Decree 3516-1: the release of judges. People's deputies, please vote. [[13:10:31]] For the 220. Anti - 1, held 32, did not vote 147, undecided. Draft Law 3516 is under consideration. Please.
ParlaMint-UA_2013-11-05-m0.u148	The Higher Council of Justice proposes that the judges be dismissed: The Supreme Administrative Court of Ukraine, Harchenk Vasil Vasilovič, in connection with the application for resignation; The Supreme Economic Court of Ukraine, Moskalenko Viktor Semenović, in connection with the application for resignation; The Court of Appeal of the Autonomous Republic of Crimea Bondaryev Vladimir Kostinović – in connection with the application for resignation, the Eudkoym Víru Vasilovna – in connection with the application for resignation, Kaputin Ludmila Pavlovna – in connection with the application for resignation, Nekles Viktor Ivanovic – in connection with the application for resignation, Solovova Mikola Volodymirovic – in connection with the application for resignation; the Court of Appeal of the Guzola District of Guzola Pavel Petrovich, in connection with the application for resignation; the Court of Appeal of Ivano-Frankiv District of Flisak Roman Josephovich, in connection with the application for resignation; the Court of Appeal of the Kyiv region of Cherkasov Volodymyr Mikolayovic, in connection with the application for resignation; the Court of Appeal of the Kharkiv District of Lesik Sergio Mikolaiovich, in connection with the application for resignation; The Court of Appeal of the Hersonian District of Dubchenk Anatolia Pavlovich, in connection with the application.
ParlaMint-UA_2013-11-05-m0.u149	All of you?
ParlaMint-UA_2013-11-05-m0.u150	No, no, no, not all of them.
ParlaMint-UA_2013-11-05-m0.u151	Well, let's do it.
ParlaMint-UA_2013-11-05-m0.u152	The Court of Appeal of the Supreme Igor Viktorovich District of Cherka, in connection with the application for resignation; the Court of Appeal of Sevastopol Vodjachina Ludmila Mikolayevna, in connection with the application for resignation; Efimov Valentina Alexandrovna, in connection with the application for resignation, Zotov Viktor Sergiyovič, in relation to the application for resignation, Sundukov Vasil Mikhajlović, in connection with the application for resignation; The Lviv Economic Court of Kraevska Miroslav Vasilovna, in connection with the achievement of sixty-five years; Sacks District Court of the Autonomous Republic of Crimea, Islamgulov Olen Volodymyrovna, in connection with the application for resignation; The Court of Justice of the Autonomous Republic of Crimea Morozov Ludmila Mikolayevna, in connection with the application for resignation; The Krasnolyman City Court of the Donetsk Region of Moroz Lina Ivanovna, in connection with the application for resignation; Novograd-Volinsky District Court of the Žitomir Region of Hickko Mikola Grigorovič - in connection with the application for resignation; The Berdian Regional Court of Zaporozhye Region of Vienna, Tetian Grigorovna, in connection with the application for resignation; Vladarski District Court of Kyiv District, Yusik Mikolaiovich, in connection with the application for resignation; The Fastev District Court of Kiev, Bartko Viktor Mikolayovic, in connection with the application for resignation; Anthracite City Court of Luhansk Skrarin Nell Mikolayevna, in connection with the application for resignation; The Chilean District Court of the Odessa Region of Boskov Mikola Ivanovich, in connection with the application for resignation; Kodim District Court of the Odessa District of Guru Anatolia Ivanovich, in connection with the application for resignation; the Economic Court of the Mikolai district of Seminovo Anatolia Kostunica, in connection with the achievement of sixty-five years; The commercial court of the Suman district of Miropolski, Sergey Alexiyovich, in connection with the application for resignation. One warning, Gura Antoliy Ivanovich, Judge of the Kodim District Court of the Odessa Region, appealed to the High Council of Justice to appeal the earlier application. This is his right and I ask you to remove him from this determination.
ParlaMint-UA_2013-11-05-m0.u153	Are we going to delete it?
ParlaMint-UA_2013-11-05-m0.u154	Yeah.
ParlaMint-UA_2013-11-05-m0.u155	Guru Anatoly Ivanovich is removed from this list. Note, Sergey Sobolev. Please. Please, talk to me.
ParlaMint-UA_2013-11-05-m0.u156	Dear reporter, of the 28 judges you've just read, even if you rule out Mr. Guru, only two have reached the age of sixty-five, everyone else suddenly resigns. Here my colleague from my committee stated that there were amendments to the Constitution. That's how I want to remind him. It is suggested that retirement be increased to 70 years, and these people have not even worked out. Why did they all file their resignation applications? I repeat, because all of them will receive a pension one and a half times as much as they would if they retired. What's the point? Does the state have any extra money? I think we should immediately assign the Court Committee to amend the Court of Justice Act and prohibit such practices. Before that, we had voted down the Retirement Reform Act. Women have the right to retire at the age of 40 or at the age of 45? None. Why this right is given.
ParlaMint-UA_2013-11-05-m0.u157	Do you understand? Please prepare for the vote. I put to the vote Order (3516) on the release of judges with the name Anatolia Ivanovich Guru. Please vote. [[13:16:28]] For 216, Against - 5, held - 36, not voted - 145. The decision is not taken. The factions. Region Party - 178, Fatherland - 0, Vitalia Klicka - 0, Freedom - 0, Company - 30, non-fractional - 8. Have a seat. Thank you. A draft Act (number 3295-1) on amending the Code of Budgets of Ukraine (for the use (implementation) of the State part of the produced product in accordance with the distribution agreements) (second reading) is under consideration. I invite you to report to the head of the Committee on Budget Affairs, Eugenia Borisovich Geller.
ParlaMint-UA_2013-11-05-m0.u158	Dear Volodymyr Vasilovich, distinguished national deputies and invited! In accordance with the Supreme Council’s mandate, the Committee on Budget Affairs prepared Bill 3295-1 for second reading. The bill received 23 proposals. Of which the committee counted in whole or in part 21 and rejected 2. The supported proposals take into account the observation made by the Chief Scientific and Scientific Administration of the project. A second reading of the bill suggests that the following should be brought into line. Determining the clear distribution of funds from the public part of the produced product according to the distribution agreements: 90 percent to the government budget, 10 percent to the local budgets, and the costs to produce within the continental shelf and the maritime zone to be fully included in the national budget. This issue is subject to the regulation of purely budgetary legislation and cannot be determined by the distribution agreements. 10 per cent of the funds directed towards local budgets are allocated exclusively to the development budget between the local budgets in which the corresponding area is located: the district budget or the budget of the Autonomous Republic of Crimea – 5 per cent, the district budget – 3.5 per cent, the rural, rural or urban budget – 1.5 per cent. If the Nadar area is located in several administrative and territorial areas, the costs between the respective local budgets are distributed within the established ratios in a manner defined by the government. Establish the adopted validity of the basic provisions of the law as of January 1, 2014. As a result of the discussion, the Committee on Budget Affairs adopted a decision to recommend to the Supreme Council a bill under number 3295-1 to be adopted on second reading and in general as a law in the final edition, as set out by the committee in the comparative table before the bill. Please support the committee's decision. In the event of the adoption of the bill, the Committee on Budget Issues, together with the Chief Legal Authority, should, in the drafting of the relevant legislation, make the necessary editorial amendments to the technical and legal requirements of the regulatory technique. Thank you for your attention.
ParlaMint-UA_2013-11-05-m0.u159	Are you done? Let's do some repairs. Amendment number 11, rejected. National MP Petrenko. Don't insist. National MP, 12th Amendment, Samuelenko. Is he insisting? No, it's not. Other adjustments are included. Please prepare for the vote, distinguished national MPs. Please take your seats and prepare for the vote. I am voting on the draft Act (3295-1) amending the Code of Budgets of Ukraine (for the use (implementation) of the State part of the product produced in accordance with the distribution agreements), for adoption in the second reading and in general. People's deputies, please vote. [[13:21:38]] For 326 - 326 against - 1, held - 0 did not vote - 76. Decision taken. The factions. Region Party 170, Parenthood 52, Vitalia Klicka 20, Freedom 33, Company 30, non-fractional 21. The question is: draft Act (2916-d) amending article 9 of the Ukrainian Law on State Support for Agriculture of Ukraine (to improve the activities of the Agrarian Fund). How will we view it? Please, I'm sorry. I'm sorry. I'm sorry. Please vote. [[13:22:52]] For 175 Against 65, held – 15, not voted – 148. Decision taken. The factions. It's our first reading again. Please report.
ParlaMint-UA_2013-11-05-m0.u160	Mr. Volodymira Vasilovich, honourable fellow members of the National Deputies, thanks to the fact that the Supreme Council sent for a re-reading of the Act on Amendments to the Agrarian Fund to the Committee, the Committee fully drafted this bill and, of course, in the Bill we have changed a lot. First, we erased those positions that were fairly resonant. We're at 9.2 p.m. One committee member made an editorial saying that we changed the calendar to the current marketing period. A large number of national MPs have completed 9.3. 2, in which we said that the Agrarian Fund for Stability and Financial Interventions for Price Stabilising is being provided with a return at the end of the next marketing year, a period that was not before, and it was supposed to be a gift. And we've also introduced the reformed Transition Agrarian Fund, and in the bill we've introduced it into a list of property rights that are not subject to privatization. These are the main points that give me the basis for today’s appeal to the national MPs, to all factions to support the bill, to accept it as a basis, so that we can take into account the proposals that will come from the legislators in the first to second readings. Please be supportive. Thank you for your attention.
ParlaMint-UA_2013-11-05-m0.u161	Please sign up for the factions. Please, the Freedom Union, the Martínk People's Deputy.
ParlaMint-UA_2013-11-05-m0.u162	Please pass the word to Igor Sabia.
ParlaMint-UA_2013-11-05-m0.u163	Please, Igor Sabia.
ParlaMint-UA_2013-11-05-m0.u164	Igor Sabiy, All-Ukrainian Freedom Union, 189 constituency, Hmelničina. The All-Ukrainian Freedom Union, and this time it will not vote for this bill, as the essence of the Agrarian Foundation itself changes. The Agrarian Fund cannot function as a price market regulator if it is able to earn profits. That's the only way to rule it out. Because the Agrarian Fund, on the other hand, goes into the market when the lowest prices, and it has to buy at higher prices and sell accordingly at lower prices. To stabilize prices. We are told what is included in the list of objects that cannot be privatized. But in 22 years of independence, we know dozens and dozens of examples of enterprises that were listed on this list, but anyway, they were privatized. There is also a question of where the money will come from to fill that fund. Because the issuance of new bonds and new loans only create even bigger problems for the state budget of Ukraine. The All-Ukrainian Freedom Union against the Agrarian Fund becoming a public stockholder society and profiting. Thank you for your attention.
ParlaMint-UA_2013-11-05-m0.u165	Thank you. The Fatherland faction, National Deputy Wozniak. Please.
ParlaMint-UA_2013-11-05-m0.u166	Please pass the word to Kirilenko Ivan Grigorovich.
ParlaMint-UA_2013-11-05-m0.u167	Ivan Kirilenko, please.
ParlaMint-UA_2013-11-05-m0.u168	The Fatherland faction, Kirilenko, Dniproperty. Dear friends, a fitting expression: The road is well - meaning, and we know where it is. Colleagues, when the law was passed and the Agrarian Fund was established, took into account the fine experience of the countries of the European Union and the United States. Agricultural production is always related to nature, and it works in the open sky. As a result, both crops and crops sometimes vary in ways that prices are either falling or prices are stagnant. The agrarian fund had to be a stabilizer: the harvest year - the Agrarian Fund was taking down surpluses at a cost to farmers so that there would be no price collapse; the non-fertilization year - the Agrarian Fund for intervention in the grain market and other products in order to avoid a price hike, people were not affected. Simple, normal, understood a scheme that is tested in all countries of the world and works. In Timoshenko's government, the Agrarian Fund was given 6 billion dollars for the first time -- quite enough for the state to be a unique player for society and for peasants. Question: "Where's 6 billion?"Oh, my God! Zero! Where's the grain? Zero! Now under "different pretexts," let's do something to make something better there, to go in, as they say, the "side branch" of what was laid at the beginning. Guys, we can't support this! Return 6 billion, and the Agrarian Fund should work as a stabilizer on the agrarian, food, and financial market. Anything else, I'm sorry, a little bit of the evil one. We do not support this law.
ParlaMint-UA_2013-11-05-m0.u169	Thank you. Sergey Kaplin, strike faction. Victor Pinzenic. Please.
ParlaMint-UA_2013-11-05-m0.u170	Ladies and gentlemen, today the Agrarian Fund is an institution of central executive power whose purpose is to influence market prices. When prices fall, such as grain, the fund buys grain. When prices go up, he sells. He can sell cheaper than he's bought. For the purpose with which the Agrarian Fund was created to sell below purchases, it is normal to get damages. By this law, you turn the Agrarian Fund into a commercial structure. The purpose of the commercial structure is to make a profit. These are incompatible things. You can't make profit and say that you can influence prices where there can be damage, because for price regulation you can go to damage. But this is just one part of the problem. The second part of the problem is that behind this, already commercial, structure you leave public or public functions. It's a nonsensence when a commercial structure starts to function as a state. It's like giving a commercial structure the right to set taxes on its own, or tax inspection will depend on its activity, on how much it collects taxes. If we are to follow the path proposed by the authors, we need to make a single amendment to the second reading of this law. To turn the Central Authority of Executive Authority - the Cabinet of Ministers of Ukraine into a Stock Exchange Society of the Cabinet of Ministers of Ukraine. I very much hope that there is still some sanity left in this room that will not allow us to vote in favour of this law.
ParlaMint-UA_2013-11-05-m0.u171	Thank you. From the faction of the Party of the Regions, National Deputy Kaletnik. Please. We're on. Please.
ParlaMint-UA_2013-11-05-m0.u172	Thank you. I am very grateful to Victor Mikhailovich Pinzenik for his role in explaining to John Grigorovich where 6 billion were and how they had them and where they were children. Because the really agrarian fund, which was in the process of stabilizing prices for bread, it actually spent some of the money when we had problems, especially in 2007-2008 with sharp price increases. What about other positions? So they're right. And I think the committee will consider all these proposals between the first and the second readings, where we will really be able to look at all the proposals made by the legislators. And just after the second reading, we can put a dot, or this bill we can accept, or we can't accept it. Now I'd like to ask the room once again to respond thoughtfully and to help solve this problem today, to vote on the basis. Thank you.
ParlaMint-UA_2013-11-05-m0.u173	Desires made a statement. Please prepare for the vote. I think we should take the example of the majority. Look, the opposition-- they're all sitting, they're all working. Evening, I'm asking you to take a seat. Sit down, take an example. Don't shout, let's vote. I'm voting on draft Act No. 2916-d: amending article 9 of the Ukrainian Law on State Support for Agriculture of Ukraine (to improve the activities of the Agrarian Fund) for adoption as a basis. Please vote. [[13:33:20]] For the 220. Against 96, held – 2, not voted – 86. The decision is not taken. Factions: Region Party - 167, Fatherland - 7, Vitalia Klicka - 0, Freedom - 0, Ukrainian Company - 29, non-fractional - 17. There is a suggestion: Once again, allow the committee to prepare for the re-reading.
ParlaMint-UA_2013-11-05-m0.u174	Dear National Deputies! The MPs raised the question that we were discussing this issue today in a reopened first reading. According to article 102, part 3, read: "The decision to repeat the first and second readings of the Supreme Council Bills can be made no more than twice." There's an offer to send a second reading to the committee again. You don't want to vote? Don't vote. [[B in m in s a l in]] Yes, again. Thank you. I haven't voted yet. That's why. I'm asking for your attention! I'm putting the vote to send bill 2916d to the preparatory committee for the first time. To others. I'm confused! To read again. Do you understand? I'm asking the People's Deputies to vote. To read again. Please vote. [[13:36:40]] For 224 94, held – 1, did not vote 83. The decision is not taken. Factions: The Party of the Regions – 176, "The Fatherland" – 0, "The Hit of Vitalia Klicka" – 0, "Freedom" – 0, the Ukrainian Company – 29, non-fractional – 19. The law is rejected. [[Applause]] See, how? We can do anything by voting. We're looking at a bill, we've had a government development bank for Ukraine. But the committee hasn't considered it, we won't look at it. [[B in m in s a l in]] We're not going to discuss this without a committee meeting, I say again. Got it? Got it. The draft Act (No. 3061) amending the Law on State Land cadastre on the Cancellation of Payments for Reporting to and Amendments to the State Land cadastre is under consideration. How do we view it? Please. Anyone who supports the simplified procedure in the first reading, please vote. [[13:38:15]] For 168, Against 65, held – 11, not voted – 154. Decision taken. The factions. Grigory Mikolaiovich Kaletnik, head of the committee, reports.
ParlaMint-UA_2013-11-05-m0.u175	Dear Vladimir Vasilovich! Dear fellow national MPs! As far as the draft bill is concerned, its essence is clear and simple for all. Its purpose is to cancel the national land registration fee, to submit land information to the Land Book, as well as to submit to the State Land Inventory information on land use restrictions, sub-norendiums, waiters, and changes to such information. And I want to point out that these are significant expenses for our ordinary, private people. For example, the size of the national land registration fee is 65 dollars, the state registration of land use restrictions is 161 bracelets, the introduction of 60 grivens to the State Land Inventory. And that's not taking into account the cost of producing appropriate documentation with the land structure. So in fact, it turns out that the peasant, at his own expense, forms the base of the State Land cadastre. He also pays to bring such data to the cadastre itself! The bill proposes to amend articles 24, 26, 29, 40 and 41 on the State Land cadastre accordingly and to cancel such payment for the submission of the reported information to the State Land cadastre. The same position of the President of Ukraine, who, according to paragraph 82.3 of the National Plan of Action for 2013, commissioned the ministries and other central executive authorities to ensure that the payment for information was cancelled. The committee at its meeting on September 17 reviewed the bill and adopted it as a basis, and also recommends that the Supreme Council support the bill as a basis. Thank you for your attention. Please be supportive.
ParlaMint-UA_2013-11-05-m0.u176	Have a seat. People's deputies please sign up for factions. Please. Please, the Freedom Union, the Orotyuk People's Deputy.
ParlaMint-UA_2013-11-05-m0.u177	Please pass the word to Igor Sabia.
ParlaMint-UA_2013-11-05-m0.u178	Please, Igor Sabiy.
ParlaMint-UA_2013-11-05-m0.u179	Igor Sabiy, All-Ukrainian Freedom Union, 189 constituency, Hmelničina. The All-Ukrainian Union of Freedom will support this bill, as it will allow for the reduction of such insurmountable struggles from peasants. Now it's so strong, so serious and so complicated the procedure for registering land of all relationships. Clearly, this law will help to ensure that people receive less harassment and better protection of their rights. Thank you for your attention.
ParlaMint-UA_2013-11-05-m0.u180	Thank you. Faction of the Party of the Regions, National Deputy Feldman. The faction of the Company of Ukraine, National Deputy Shugalo.
ParlaMint-UA_2013-11-05-m0.u181	Please pass the word to Victor Gubar.
ParlaMint-UA_2013-11-05-m0.u182	Pass it on, please.
ParlaMint-UA_2013-11-05-m0.u183	Thank you. Victor Hubbar, Communist Party of Ukraine. The bill was considered at a meeting of our faction. And I want to point out that the faction of the Communist Party of Ukraine will support this initiative. But what I want to stress is that we're the only ones voting for it in the first reading. There are some problems that need to be prepared for the second reading, and these issues need to be addressed. We believe that these proposals, which are made in this bill, are correct. And that's why the Company is going to vote yes. Thank you.
ParlaMint-UA_2013-11-05-m0.u184	Thank you. The Vitalia Klitschka faction, Paul Rosenko.
ParlaMint-UA_2013-11-05-m0.u185	Please pass the word to Paul Rizanek.
ParlaMint-UA_2013-11-05-m0.u186	Please, National Deputy Rizanenko. Please.
ParlaMint-UA_2013-11-05-m0.u187	People's Deputy Rizanenko, Strike Party, 97 constituency. As you know, since the new year of this year, we have changed legislation on the calculation and maintenance of property rights and the accounting of land is now being carried out by the State Register, ownership rights are being applied to the State Register. When this law was passed, it was not taken into account that all those who had already obtained ownership of the land would have had appropriate acts and documents to transfer it to a new base. And the law was not regulated for this to be done free of charge. A big positive moment in this bill is exactly what the state will do to this database of old land ownership information free of charge. But it will continue to provide payment services for the provision of extracts. We support this bill, which will make life easier for people and reduce their cost of accounting for the earth. Thank you.
ParlaMint-UA_2013-11-05-m0.u188	The faction of the Party of the Regions, the national deputy of Žuravsky.
ParlaMint-UA_2013-11-05-m0.u189	Dear colleagues, I would like to say that this bill, its adoption, is absolutely beneficial for all Ukrainian citizens, 46 million Ukrainian citizens. The adoption of the project will facilitate the process of public land registration. The implementation of this draft law will allow the implementation of paragraph 82 of the National Plan of Action for 2013 on the implementation of the 2010-2014 Economic Reform Programme, approved by Presidential Decree No. 128 of 12 March 2013 on the abolition of payments for the introduction of information into State registers, other information bases used for the provision of administrative services. Well, the representative of the committee was speaking, a colleague of our faction also stressed that the committee was in favour. So we urge all the deputies to vote in favour of this important bill.
ParlaMint-UA_2013-11-05-m0.u190	Thank you. The Fatherland faction, National Deputy Catherinechuk.
ParlaMint-UA_2013-11-05-m0.u191	Mikola Catherinechuk, Fatherland faction, European Party of Ukraine. Ladies and gentlemen, what's going on now? We've been warned. Our faction warned us not to accept this order because it would increase the cost of, say, registering their property rights. When we adopted this order, we spoke up, and the whole opposition stood up against this issue. There were repairs. No, they didn't. Now all the heroes, let's cancel, have mentioned people. There is no doubt that the Fatherland faction will support this bill. But I would still like to see the number of drafts go down to the quality of the bill, and the things that are thought out that directly affect the level of well-being of our citizens.
ParlaMint-UA_2013-11-05-m0.u192	Thank you. The discussion is over. Please prepare for the vote. Alexander Sergiyovich, what are the factions doing there? I am voting on the draft Act (No. 3061) amending the Law on State Land cadastre on the Cancellation of Payments for Reporting to and Amendments to the State Land cadastre. Please vote. [[13:46:44]] For 331 Against - 0, held - 0, unvoted - 68. Decision taken. The factions. The Draft Law (No. 3067) on amending some Ukrainian legislation on strengthening road safety control and liability for traffic violations is under consideration. How do we view it? Would you like a shorter procedure? Vote. I can hear you! Vote! [[13:47:32]] For 172 Against 67, held - 10, not voted - 146. Decision taken. I invite you to report to the first deputy head of the State Road Agency, Michael Petrovich Zvaric. You have two minutes. You're reporting.
ParlaMint-UA_2013-11-05-m0.u193	Dear Vladimir Vasilovich, distinguished national MPs, 90 percent of Ukrainian roads need capital repairs and, last but not least, their premature destruction by overloaded cars. Ukraine’s laws do not regulate the application of automatic weighing without the involvement of a person who creates preconditions for corruption. The purpose of the law on road maintenance is to increase the responsibility for overloading vehicles, and to implement a procedure to comply with European practices. The proposed law provides for increased responsibility, first of all, to citizens of entrepreneurial activities, for such violations. The law also regulates the individual responsibility of large - load, large - scale, or dangerous cargo carriers. The fine amounts to 40 minimum incomes for drivers — 680 dollars, 100 untaxed minimums or 1,000, 500 dollars, for a two - and - more - year breach. It is also legal to control the weights and dimensions of vehicles with automatic fixation of the results by special technical means without stopping the car. Thus, the changes proposed by the project will lead to improvements in legal mechanisms for regulating relations in the transport of large, large and dangerous goods. And most importantly, it's a real step to use terms, to preserve an existing network of roads. Please support our bill.
ParlaMint-UA_2013-11-05-m0.u194	Thank you, sit down. People's deputies would like to sign up for the factions. Please, Party of Regions, National Deputy Gregory Kaletnik.
ParlaMint-UA_2013-11-05-m0.u195	Dear colleagues! A very important bill has been initiated, but there are certain issues to the service of the road itself. I'd like to refer here to the first deputy, to the reporter, and tell you that if this bill is supported, you're going to have to put order in your technique first. All the roads you're building, you're exporting the building materials, not according to the route letters you have written. In my district, for example, the roads in the Vilenec region through the villages, when the Odessa Kiev road was built, all of your big trucks got these roads, and, in fact, they didn't stick, and they go very, very crowded. So I think, first of all, if you give order and you show an example, we'll support it, too, in order to match those road signs that are on display, and where the transport, the cargo needs to go, it has to go through those roads and routes. The other thing is, I have a question for you. In support of this bill as a whole, who will monitor these routes? This is going to be put on the DAI? Will this be introduced into your new department? Thank you.
ParlaMint-UA_2013-11-05-m0.u196	Fatherland faction, Alexander Kugel, please.
ParlaMint-UA_2013-11-05-m0.u197	Mr. Deputy, don't be distracted. Please tell me how you can be the deputy head of the agency. Mr. Volodymyr, please tell him not to talk! Vladimir Vasilovich, tell him what he needs to hear, not talk. I can't ask him a question.
ParlaMint-UA_2013-11-05-m0.u198	I'm asking Vasilyeva, if you'd like to take a seat, ask the welder, let him listen.
ParlaMint-UA_2013-11-05-m0.u199	Look here! Please tell me, how can you be a substitute for a road agency that does not exist in Ukraine? It's not like cars break them down. Tell me if you can make a bill that forbids you to take 60 percent off in building Ukrainian roads, and take, I'm in China, every head of your agency to hang on the road when that money is stolen. A bill like that! Our faction won't support you, because soon the cars will have nothing to drive on, in this state of the economy.
ParlaMint-UA_2013-11-05-m0.u200	The Freedom Union. I'll be able to answer the questions that are there. Freedom Union, National Deputy Leonov.
ParlaMint-UA_2013-11-05-m0.u201	Please pass the word to Andrey Mishchenk.
ParlaMint-UA_2013-11-05-m0.u202	Please, National Deputy Mishchenko.
ParlaMint-UA_2013-11-05-m0.u203	Andrew Mishchenko, All-Ukrainian Freedom Union, Dnipropetrovština. Well, every month, desperate people block national and local roads, requiring proper conditions for Ukrainian roads. In addition to the traditional theft of public funds by officials to repair roads, uncontrolled transportation of large - scale and large - scale cargoes, especially during the summer season, is causing significant damage to road cover. The adoption of the bill may improve the monitoring of standards and standards for gauges and weights. As a result, this will reduce road cover damage, improve road safety. However, the proposed bill requires substantial work. This does not provide for the responsibility of officials responsible for the technical condition of the operation of vehicles, safety professionals for the transport of dangerous goods. Responsibility should also be borne by the officer who gave the command or deliberately allowed the car to be transferred, not by one driver or by a person — a physical entrepreneur. The bill sets out a mechanism for controlling the weights and dimensions of the means of transport. To this end, it is suggested that we weigh, measure without stopping the car. Such special devices must be certified and set up exclusively at budget costs. The position of purchasing and installing the necessary equipment at the expense of non-budgetary funds is unacceptable and corrupt. The Freedoms faction believes that the bill should be finalized for the second reading and that the first reading might support its approval. Glory to Ukraine!
ParlaMint-UA_2013-11-05-m0.u204	Vital Klitschka Faction, Victor Chumak. Please.
ParlaMint-UA_2013-11-05-m0.u205	Thank you. Dear Vladimir Vasilovich, distinguished national deputies! This project (3067) was sounded yesterday on the Conciliation Council as one that has enough serious corruption holes. So we're not going to support this project. In fact, I would like to say that this bill is designed for a good purpose: to increase the safety of freight. Part of the law’s standards really have a similar direction. But for such a small project, and this is just three pages, it's unfortunately a lot of underwork. We've done anti-corruption research on this project, which has shown that these failures create gaps in legal regulation, which could potentially lead to corruption. What is the point? In the existing edition of article 132, marked 1 of the Code on Administrative Offences for Infringements of Road Traffic Regulations for Dangerous Goods and Rules for the Carriage of Large and Massive Means of Transport, both drivers and officials or legal persons, or business persons, are responsible. Instead, in the draft article 132, marked 1 and 132, which discusses the same offences, officials of enterprises are somehow removed from the responsibilities circle. The fines are now offered only from drivers and individuals who are entrepreneurs. This means, on the one hand, that there will be irresponsibility for businesses and legal persons. That is, there is no increase in control over breaches of the transport rules. On the other hand, if one driver is registered by a natural person who is an entrepreneur and the other is not a physical person who is an entrepreneur, they will, under this project, be responsible for exactly the same offences. Under the same circumstances. So the fine is going to be more different than twice. 40 untaxed minima against the sieves that the reporter was talking about. As a result, if the project is accepted in this way.
ParlaMint-UA_2013-11-05-m0.u206	All right, let's get
ParlaMint-UA_2013-11-05-m0.u207	Not only will he reach his goal but he will lead to the opposite. It will create a complicated situation of being held responsible for violations of the transport regime and will actually stimulate the impunity of businesses and corruption for those who make decisions about attracting offences. Thank you.
ParlaMint-UA_2013-11-05-m0.u208	Thank you. National Deputy Gordienko, faction of the Ukrainian Company. You've got a minute.
ParlaMint-UA_2013-11-05-m0.u209	Sergei Gordijenko, faction of the Ukrainian Company, Poltavščina. The faction of the Communist Party of Ukraine has carefully considered the bill, and it believes that it is necessary to support it in the first reading. But only in the first. In fact, what is being done to roads today with large - scale cars needs to be normalized, including through the introduction of responsibility. Let's see. We've already completely crashed the central roads, we're today. These large - scale transports are being sought by rural and other local roads that can be used to escape those threatening areas and cause these roads to collapse completely. Let's see when the operators start moving their routes through our cities and villages, that's what destroys the houses, because they're right next to the road. Therefore, there is a suggestion to support in the first reading and to work with the second.
ParlaMint-UA_2013-11-05-m0.u210	I'm going to keep working to see if there's a few minutes. Did everyone say that? Please prepare for the vote. Have you prepared for the vote? I am voting on the draft Act (No. 3067) amending some Ukrainian legislation on strengthening road safety control and liability for infringements of road traffic rules. People's deputies, please vote. [[14:00:29]] For 245 Against 9, held – 9, not voted – 91. Decision taken. The factions. The morning session is closed. At 16 o'clock, we'll continue our work.
