ParlaMint-UA_2013-10-22-m0.u1	Good morning, distinguished national MPs! Guests invited to the Supreme Council of Ukraine! I'm asking the people's deputies to prepare for registration. Please turn on the "Race" system. [[10:02:22]] There were 364 national deputies registered in the hall. The morning session of the Supreme Council of Ukraine is open. Today is the birthday of Ukrainian national deputy Jaroslav Petrovich Fedorchuk. Let's congratulate Jaroslav Petrovich and wish us success. [[Applause]] Dear National Deputies! There's an announcement. In accordance with article 60 of the Supreme Council of Ukraine Rules, and according to the minutes of the meeting of the parliamentary faction of the All-Ukrainian Union of "The Fathers" of 11 October 2013, the expulsion of the national deputies of Ukraine, Pavelko Andrija Vasilovich and Sergei Leonid Grigorovovich, from the deputy faction "The Fathers" are reported. In accordance with article 25 of the Rules, on Tuesday we have 30 minutes for statements by authorized members of the MPs with proposals, announcements, statements, and messages. Therefore, I ask the factions to sign up for the performance. Please sign up. The speech is given to the representative of the “Freedom ” Yankee association. Yankow gives the word to Oleg Tsagnibok. Please.
ParlaMint-UA_2013-10-22-m0.u2	Glory to Ukraine! Respectable Society! A new plenary week is beginning, but it has to be noted that in Ukraine, mass political repression against representatives of the opposition continues, against those who are fighting the hateful criminal regime, which we hope temporarily governs in the Ukrainian state. I would like to say that in the last week alone, the Kiev police, under the direction of the Ministry of Internal Affairs, have been repressing 15 activists of the Kiev Union of Freedom. Permanent searches in the apartments, arrests, interrogation calls. By the way, just today, literally a few hours ago, they came to the apartment of a candidate in the national MPs from the united opposition forces of the 23rd district, which will take place on December 15, Yuri Lewchenka, and called for questioning. The Central Electoral Commission has not been able to register a candidate from the opposition -- already the police, the prosecutor's office here as it is, already a repressive machine. To intimidate, to put those who are fighting the regime on their knees today. But with political repression going on in the country, persecution continues, we see the collapse and collapse of the Ukrainian economy. We are deeply concerned about the fact that today there is simply a critical decline in industrial production in Ukraine. By the way, the further decline in industrial production in Ukraine, according to official statistics, is already 5 percent and 6 percent -- and this is undeniably evidence that the present government of Azarov is actually a bankruptcy, leading the state to a complete default. Let's remind ourselves that this decline in industrial production in August was 5.4 percent, September 5.6. We see a very negative trend, compared to last year. Some masterful experts, trying to protect the present authority and the present government, tell us that this is the cause of an accident or a seasonal accident. This is a lie and a lie at all, this is absolute ignorance, because the situation is seen in various areas of the Ukrainian economy. The situation of falling is a certain trend. Unfortunately, we may find that there are major problems with motor vehicles. And the decline in automobile production is now nearly 20 percent, a respected society. This is because the government assured us that once the utilization assembly is in place, once special duties are introduced, we will see the development and prosperity of Ukrainian automobile construction. But the situation is quite the opposite. The decline in production takes place in areas that are primarily oriented towards external markets. And we understand that the general situation that is in the world, emerging from the economic crisis, the situation that is in the countries of Eurosona, Russia and the Middle East, requires the government to focus its efforts on demonopolising the Ukrainian industry, reorienting industrial production to the internal markets, promoting the economy in general, both small and medium. Unfortunately, we have a very different situation in the state. Moreover, the decline in industrial production is taking place and the deterioration of other indicators in the Ukrainian economy is a decline in GDP, which, by the way, in the second quarter of this year is already more than 1.3 percent. This is the debt of a salary that, if you think about it, amounts to over 1 billion dollars. And how the government didn't tell us that they would cover this debt, but the visa and now there. We have constant signals from our voters, negative signals from our voters. Today we have more than 1 billion debt on social insurance funds, and these are hospitals, these are regressive, these are specific. Even pensions were not paid. Moreover, there is a decline in capital investment, which is now nearly 15 percent. We are intimidated by the pro-Moscow forces here in us, inside and outside Ukraine, that after signing a positive Association with European countries in Vilnius, in November of this year, there will be a massive decline in industrial production in Ukraine, and the collapse of the Ukrainian economy will take place. But we don't have to sign any treaties with anyone, because we see what our present government is doing. Because the collapse of the economy and the collapse of industrial production is the result of the criminal inaction of the current power. And we need not be intimidated by European prospects! Having signed correspondingly positive agreements with European structures, we have a chance to develop the Ukrainian economy and move forward. That's why the All-Ukrainian Freedom Union has proposed this week and we're going to be looking at a bill in this room that deals with the elimination of private monopolies. We ask all factions to support it, because this is a real struggle against oligarchic clans that support their sole economic interests and destroy small and medium-sized businesses. You can't get the Ukrainian people on your knees!
ParlaMint-UA_2013-10-22-m0.u3	Finish up.
ParlaMint-UA_2013-10-22-m0.u4	You don't have to put the Ukrainian people on their knees right now, not because you're ruining the Ukrainian economy, not because you're working in your own pocket, not because you're massively implementing political repression. You'll have to answer for everything. Glory to Ukraine!
ParlaMint-UA_2013-10-22-m0.u5	Party of regions, National Deputy Mikhailo Chechtov.
ParlaMint-UA_2013-10-22-m0.u6	Dear Vladimir Vasilevich, distinguished colleagues! To date, Ukraine has fulfilled most of the conditions contained in the road map of the signing of the Association Agreement with the European Union in Vilnius in November. The unpleasant words at meetings with Western politicians and not torches lead us to a civilized Europe, but the routine daily work of power and opposition. And it is very good that this understanding comes to the current parliamentary assembly. The patriotic position of the faction of the Party of the Regions has responded to most factions. On this basis, in the 15 plenary days of the current session, we have adopted key laws from the Euro-Integration Package; the amendments proposed by the President of the country to the Constitution extending the powers of the Court of Auditors; the adoption of a law strengthening the guarantees of the independence of the judiciary signed by the Head of State of the Law on the Enforcement of Judgments and the Humanization of the Conditions of Sentence. The consolidated position of Parliament has allowed for the re-election of five districts. For its part, the power would ensure transparency in electoral procedures. Now, the question is whether she's ready for an honest election campaign or is she going to repress hysteria, throw a ton of political dirt at the voters' heads? Work continues to simplify the conditions for opening and operating the business. In this regard, we have adopted a number of legislative initiatives developed by the President and the Government. The first reading supported laws on the transparency of property relations in the media and the establishment of the foundations of public television and radio broadcasting activities in Ukraine. The positive conclusion of the expert of the Venice Commission and other European structures paves the way for the modernization of the legislation on elections and the comprehensive reform of the Ukrainian law enforcement system, particularly the adoption of the Procuratorial Act. We will be able to consider these laws before the Vilnius summit, provided that our opponents in this room take a constructive position. I wish to emphasize that, with the adoption of these laws, Ukraine is actually finalizing its obligations to the Council of Europe. Work on the harmonization of the domestic and European legislative fields will continue beyond Vilnius. Effective implementation of the Criminal Procedure Code, the Bar Association Act and other laws will remain at the centre of our attention. The current authority will fulfil its obligations and will do everything in its power to make a real rapprochement with the European Union. But today the question of the execution of the sentence of former Prime Minister Timoshenko remains unanswered. The opposition wants to present this problem as a pan-European one, which is really our internal problem. For good money, inside the country, information waves are being created and dispersed in Ukraine, and for much more money is being channelled into the European information space. The opposition does not, in a civilized, categorical form, require the Head of State to pardon Timoshenko, but does not provide an answer on what legal basis this step can be done. The chances of pardon could be considered once conditions were met that would allow the former Prime Minister to count on an act of humanity by the President of the country. At a minimum, an application for pardon must be written and filed, which Mrs. Timoshenko does not want in categorically. Secondly, it is necessary to at least begin to compensate the material damage to the State recognized by the court, which is also not being done in principle. Finally, the criminal proceedings brought against her must be closed before the courts and not ignored during the year. With regard to the possibility of treating Mrs. Timoshenko abroad, the President stated that there was no relevant legislative framework to date and that if Parliament adopted such a law, it would necessarily sign it. The faction of the Party of the Regions invited the opposition to draft the relevant law, to which it had not yet heard. In our view, this law should include: the first, the possibility of treatment abroad and other prisoners in need; the second, the guarantees of the return of prisoners by the host party to continue serving the sentence; the third, the guarantees of the host party, which excludes the involvement of convicted political activities of the Party of the Regions, favours the establishment of an ad hoc working group with the participation of all factions to draft a bill on the possibility of treatment abroad. But not Timoshenko's problem can light up red in Vilnius in front of Ukraine. Europe is alarmed and dismayed by the neo-Nazi symbolism at the stadium in Lviv and by the dirty attempt to use this symbolism even in the Parliamentary Hall on the day of the round table in the Supreme Council, with the participation of representatives of the European political bomond for the summit in Vilnius, as well as the march of extreme ultranationalists in Krestatika with the participation of well-trained groups of storm troopers and militants. If anyone thinks that Ukraine under the flag of neo-Naziism, anti-Semitism and racism can enter a civilized Europe that is still grateful to the great Soviet soldier who saved the world from the Fascist plague, it is a myth. If the public, Ukrainian politicians, fail to appreciate what is happening, the doors of a democratic Europe can be sealed once and for all. We are convinced that the wisdom of the Ukrainian people will place these grumpy neo-fascist young people and preserve the European perspective for Ukraine. Thank you for your attention.
ParlaMint-UA_2013-10-22-m0.u7	The Vitaly Klitschka faction is the leader of the faction, the national deputy of Vitaly Klitschko.
ParlaMint-UA_2013-10-22-m0.u8	Dear colleagues! Deputies! Today, Ukraine is in an increasingly risky situation, and these risks are accepted by the authorities. As much as there was talk about European integration, the government boasts, depicting itself as a locomotive that leads Ukraine to Europe, but does everything to undermine the signing of the Association Agreement. What happened all of a sudden? And it turns out that we cannot promise Europeans to make commitments and then not to fulfill them. I've told you before, the question of selective justice is not a field for games. The President has sufficient reason and weight to pardon Julia Timoshenko in putting a dot in an intrigue that has already been improperly prolonged. On the other hand, there are no Euro-integration laws in the agenda for this week. The authorities talk about their preparation, but they are afraid to move them into the hall because they want to be accepted without discussion, not to meet European standards, but to resolve their own interests. We demand that laws be passed on to the prosecutor's office, on elections and others for an open debate in the hall, listen to arguments of authority and alternative vision to make decisions for Ukraine, not for Yanukovic and his environment and associates. Dear friends, all who listen to this broadcast, European integration is first of all the achievement of living standards, and, first of all, it's human for every Ukrainian. And the actions of the authorities today demonstrate the opposite. I get thousands of letters about the delay in wages, especially in the budget area, not getting people and important forms of social assistance: unemployment, pregnancy, childbirth, child care, disability relief, mining, and hospital pay in all areas. People were delayed from three months to six months. The total amount of debt has already exceeded 2 billion dollars. In order to conceal the extent of its social failure, the authorities juggle statistics and banish teachers, doctors, and social workers on unpaid vacations. The budget sector is deliberately driven beyond poverty, and then, before the elections, I'm thinking about adding 100 dollars to the salary, and hopefully they're buying the budget. A classic example when budget rallying under Kyivrad is to justify the illegal congregations of former deputies. It's a cynical humiliation of people. In the social sphere, Ukraine fell by 15 years, in the 1990s. And we have to stop that from happening. And we do. We have to do everything we can to make those improvers responsible for their actions. I'm again addressing the Head of the Supreme Council, Vladimir Vasilovich, here we need to immediately hear the Minister of Social Policy, explain the state of the social welfare payments. In the last week alone, we received some of the documents that we received from the people. It's a very small part if we can. We want to bring everything, we can't bring it to this room, so many references. So people can understand why the problem that the government is making to solve problems is, of course, what they're doing. Dear colleagues, the problem of social pay is the result of a non-professional approach to budgeting, as well as the unconscionable and unscrupulous theft that takes place in the field of public procurement. This must be stopped, for it is clear that the same problems will await us next year. Because the draft budget is written under the table, and then it'll be embarrassing, and they'll be yelling that by the new year, we need to adopt what we need to find again where we can get the money to pay people. The authorities never forget the background of increasing social debt by spreading legends about the movement to Europe, finding ways to repair their helicopters, buy luxury cars, or repair their own. Euro repairs in their offices. The government has proved its inability to effectively govern the country. If there is no European integration, there will be no power in peace and warmth until 2015, I'm sure. Thank you for your attention. Glory to Ukraine!
ParlaMint-UA_2013-10-22-m0.u9	The Fatherland faction, National Deputy Kupreyczyk. He gives the word to the leader of the Arsenius Yatsenyuk faction. Please. Please, please.
ParlaMint-UA_2013-10-22-m0.u10	Dear Mr. Head, honourable members of Parliament! I would like to start by addressing President Viktor Yanukovic of Ukraine personally and our political opponents, namely the Party of the Regions. Stop the cynical game with Ukraine's future! You've started a campaign that seems to require the adoption of an incomprehensible legislation that is not even registered by the Regional Party of the Supreme Council of Ukraine. We want to make a very clear statement: based solely on the norms of the current legislation of Ukraine that all the possibilities for the release of Yulia Timoshenko and for her treatment to Germany are in valid laws. First. In accordance with article 36 of the Ukrainian Law on the Basics of Ukrainian Health Law, Ukrainian citizens can be sent to treatment abroad if there is a need to provide any kind of medical care. Attention! The procedure for sending Ukrainian citizens abroad for treatment is established by the Cabinet of Ministers of Ukraine. This is a valid article of the law in force. That is why, firstly, the Cabinet of Ministers has all the legal powers to set up medical procedures, including medical treatment for Julia Timoshenko. Second: according to the current Ukrainian Criminal Code, article 116 of the Code clearly defines the medical and health care of those convicted of being deprived of their liberty. The article provides a comprehensive list of the grounds for the provision of medical care, namely: the order of the provision of medical assistance to people deprived of their liberty is determined by the regulations of the Ministry of Justice of Ukraine and the State Pension Service. This is the second article of the second law, which is valid and must be implemented. This means that the Cabinet of Ministers – once, the State Penitentiary Service – two and the Ministry of Justice – three who are completely and completely subordinated to the President of Ukraine, Viktor Janukovich, have all the legitimate grounds for Julia Timoshenko to be released and the Covenant in Vilnius to be signed. And for the rest of the third bill, which, by the way, was so proud of the Party of Regions. This is a valid criminal code in Ukraine, namely, article 84 of the Code, which clearly states that a person who, after committing a crime or a sentence, has become ill with another serious disease may be released from punishment or subsequent punishment. And all it takes is a court decision. In view of this, I personally ask Viktor Yanukovic to stop playing a game that shows that he himself does not want to fire Julia Timoshenko, but wants to take responsibility for it either to parliament or to opposition or to anyone else. You shouldn't have put her in jail! And now we need to free her and take political responsibility. [[Applause]] The other one. Mr. Golovo, apart from the question of Julia Timoshenko, there is no key law in our Euro-Integration Package, this is the Ukrainian Procurator's Act. As an opposition, we claim that we have prepared our draft Law on Public Prosecutions. The government has not passed this bill. Our bill has the conclusions of the Venice Commission, and we will register our own bill. If you can't do it, we did it, Third. Mr. Head, we're going to have a 'day on Friday."and more precisely an hour of questions to the government." The situation in the Ukrainian economy is catastrophic. I emphasize that it's catastrophic and dramatic. The Central Bank of Ukraine’s gold reserves are minus $17 billion. We don't even cover three months of imports! The other one. The entire banking system of the country today is under severe blow. A blow to the likely devaluation of the national monetary unit. There is no currency in the country to maintain the exchange rate. Third. The U.S. Treasury has a total of 3 million dollars in its accounts. This is not even enough to drive the park of President Viktor Yanukovic of Ukraine. Four. The government of Ukraine has so far failed to submit a programme of action to the Cabinet of Ministers on what to do with the economic situation in the country. Fifth. We have made an appeal throughout the country to all the deputies of all the local councils. Tell the truth about the money of the local budgets to be financed by teachers and doctors and the local community stolen by the central government. And on Friday we will present evidence of this inconvenient, unprofessional and treacherous policy of this government in relation to the people of Ukraine. This government has proved that there is nothing he can do but lead corruption.
ParlaMint-UA_2013-10-22-m0.u11	Finish up.
ParlaMint-UA_2013-10-22-m0.u12	And that's why this government, which is supported by this President, has to be retired. Thank you for your attention.
ParlaMint-UA_2013-10-22-m0.u13	Faction of the Company of Ukraine, national deputy leader of the faction Peter Mikolaiovich Simonenko.
ParlaMint-UA_2013-10-22-m0.u14	Dear colleagues! Dear voters! The Company’s faction, again and again, claims that Ukraine today is on the verge of a budgetary disaster. And millions of people are on the verge of begging. The penalty is empty, industrial production is falling, and hidden unemployment is rising. And this all leads to months of people being held back for wages. In Alchevsk, 230 Trolleybus depot workers have not seen the money since May of this year. In Žitomirska, the employees of Orutsky "Qwarcitu" have not been paid since November of last year! Instead of giving them money, they are offered a flock. Donbaschachtostro's employees were owed 6 million! It's the salary of 500 members of the team in two months. And their colleagues in Gorlovka haven't been paid in five months. For two months, Lviv’s communaries are not paid. Some 50 million dollars were owed to people there. The debt owed to the employees of the Kerchny Ship Repair Plant has already reached 8 million dollars. In the sums of October 1, the salary debt is almost 29 million dollars. The total unpaid salary in the Mikolai region was 47 million on September 1, 2013. And by January of this year, 26 percent had been raised. There is no money to pay to teachers, doctors, to help with the birth of a child, to children of war, to veterans of the Great Homeland War. And such examples can be cited endlessly. I'd like you to know and understand that this is the result of the specific criminal privatization that took away the factories and factories that you created, and a small group of people have become rich. These are the results of the betrayal of the national interests of all the political powers that have led to the breakup of Ukraine for 20 years, and this is the result of the oligarchy of power. The Company's faction proposes the adoption of a law (2547), which provides for the introduction of 0.5 percent a day's unpaid salary and forcing the oligarchs to pay the wages of those who have earned it with a penny. In doing so, I would like to draw attention once again to the fact that, according to the requirements of the International Monetary Fund, the Association Agreement prepares an increase of 40 per cent of the price and tariffs for gas and utilities, for public transport, increases the tax pressure and introduces new elections. At the request of foreign "beneficiaries" (in paws) we were forced by pension and medical reform, which is really nothing but a transition to fully paid medicine. Today, the oligarchs are preparing for the adoption of the Housing and Labour Codes, by which working people will be transformed into potential fortifications and beggars. However, neither the authorities nor the so - called opposition have any intention of dealing with these problems. The company brought 145 bills to the Supreme Council aimed at overcoming crises and restoring Ukraine’s economic potential. This relates to the bill on the abolition of pension and medical reform, on the replacement of VAT with circulation taxes, on the return to state ownership of strategic enterprises, on the payment of debts to Afghans, black people, on the payment of regressors, etc. Of these 145 laws, only one, all the rest of the oligarchic representatives of both the authorities and the opposition, are not allowed to be considered in the Supreme Council. Instead, you see the kind of common they show, they have a consistent policy regarding the signing of this agreement. And strangely enough, they see that Ukraine is today a poor state, and as far as the requirements of this Treaty on European Integration are concerned, it will be even poorer. That's why we'd like to draw your attention today, as well as those euro-integrators who are very much talking about it, as recorded in this Association Agreement. There, our citizens. There is no word that would require our authority to raise wages to European levels, and that is the demand to raise prices. There's no requirement to guarantee timely payout, there's no social assistance, and there's no need to support gay communities. So we're going to go through gay parades and torch marches of the Nazis today instead of a parade of victories over Fascism. The company strongly opposed such values and asked the people to express their views on Euro-integration in the All-U.S. referendum, but the authorities have prohibited the holding of a referendum by the hands of the opposition sixes, the under-control courts, the CWC, contrary to the laws and the Constitution. Democratic Europe is silent, but the Ukrainian people are not silent, supporting the Communists themselves. Thus, frightened by the growing support of Communists, oligarchs, and nationalists, another anticommunist hysteria developed. A 20-year-old story. ‘ The 20th century has shown that where they try to ban the Company. To ban communist ideology, wait for the fascists to come to power. When were the Communists banned? By setting the Reichstag on fire and accusing the Communists of doing so, the Nazis began World War II. In 1991 the Communists were banned from destroying the Soviet Union and stealing what the Soviet people had created. The same is true in Ukraine. So on behalf of the Company, I claim that, despite any intimidation or threat, the Communists will defend and protect the interests of the workers and all the ranks of the Ukrainians who are disadvantaged and oppressed by the ruling oligarchic authority and the national-fascist fence. Thank you.
ParlaMint-UA_2013-10-22-m0.u15	The time for performances is over, dear colleagues. So let us move on to the questions that are to be considered each week. I'm proposing approval of the weekly schedule of plenary meetings for October 22-25, which was discussed with factions and committee heads yesterday. The weekly schedule is given to you. That's why I'm asking the people's deputies to prepare themselves for the vote. I'm asking the factions to sign up in one minute. Please sign up. The Fatherland faction, Shulga People's Deputy.
ParlaMint-UA_2013-10-22-m0.u16	Please pass the word to Sasu.
ParlaMint-UA_2013-10-22-m0.u17	We're handing over the people's deputies to Sass.
ParlaMint-UA_2013-10-22-m0.u18	Thank you. Dear Volodymyr Vasilovich, dear colleagues! I wanted to draw your attention to the requirements of the Rules. What's the point? What the Rules provide for the approval of the order of the day session. And only after the schedule of the day session has been approved can we approve the monthly work plan, the weekly work plan, and the daily work plan. Therefore, I would like to draw your attention, Vladimir Vasilovich, to the Conciliation Council, which may need to take a closer look at the matter. And yet, there is no way for a higher legislative body to violate Ukrainian legislation to work without the established order of its work. Thank you for your attention.
ParlaMint-UA_2013-10-22-m0.u19	Thank you. Has everyone heard the offer of the national MP, Sass? Hear that. I voted several times, you don't want to vote. All the questions that the deputies have raised have already been suggested to be included in the agenda of the day session, but you do not vote. That's why we have to work, and we're going to confirm our daily routine every week. The Vitalia Klitschka faction, National Deputy Pavlovenko.
ParlaMint-UA_2013-10-22-m0.u20	Thank you. Please, Paula Rosenko, pass on the word.
ParlaMint-UA_2013-10-22-m0.u21	Pass it on, please.
ParlaMint-UA_2013-10-22-m0.u22	Paul Rosenco, Vitalia Calla. Vladimir Vasilovich, I'm very sorry that you're not responding to the faction leaders. It's just that Vitaly Klitschko of the Supreme Council of Ukraine announced a very specific requirement for the impact faction. Today, the Supreme Council of Ukraine is scheduled to be held by the Minister of Social Policy, Natalia Královska. What is happening in the country today is an extraordinary situation. After six months, no child - and - child care, unemployment, and funeral care are paid. There are already examples of non-regressive payments to miners, and debt on wages is rising. We ask, we demand, the strike faction, today on the stand of the Supreme Council of Ukraine, Natalia Royal, is its area of responsibility. It is the Ministry of Social Policy that is responsible for the timelyness of all social benefits. I ask again and insist on behalf of the faction.
ParlaMint-UA_2013-10-22-m0.u23	I'll report to the National Deputies, yesterday at the Conciliation Council, we decided to hear a question about the debt of wages, after funding the local government authorities to consider on Friday at the "Government Day". We decided yesterday, I signed letters like that. So on Friday we will consider these questions. Freedom Union, People's MP Mirny, please.
ParlaMint-UA_2013-10-22-m0.u24	Please pass the word to Igor Schweitz.
ParlaMint-UA_2013-10-22-m0.u25	Please give Igor to Switzerland.
ParlaMint-UA_2013-10-22-m0.u26	Igor Schwaika, deputy faction of the All-Ukrainian Freedom Union, Kharkishte. Dear colleagues, there is a question that we are again, we, I mean, the Supreme Council as a senior representative, are in violation. In terms of the weekly schedule, Vladimir Vasilovich, it is formed on the basis of the order of the day session, and the order of the day of the session, which consists of two parts considered and subject to consideration, must be decided: first, on the basis of committee submissions, second, in agreement with factions, third, in general with the Supreme Council, fourth, in the Conciliation Council. What we are doing today does not meet the requirements of the Rules. I would urge you, as Head of the Supreme Council, to ask all the committees to make a submission on the preparation of the agenda for the day session, and only then to prepare the agendas for the week. Thank you.
ParlaMint-UA_2013-10-22-m0.u27	I'll report back to the people's deputies, the committees have submitted their proposals. All the factions made their proposals, but the session room didn't vote, so I put all the options to the vote. If you want to work, let's confirm the weekly schedule and work. And on the following Sunday, I'll rediscover the agenda for the day session. But once again, I say, vote, you don't want to vote. Party of regions, National Deputy Chechetov, please.
ParlaMint-UA_2013-10-22-m0.u28	Dear Vladimir Vasilevich! Ladies and gentlemen of the people! I turn to the opposition, to stop the sabotage of the Supreme Council, and we have no moral right to sabotage the work of the Supreme Council. Absolutely right Vladimir Vasiljevic, a list of issues for the session has been tabled several times, and we have not been able to confirm it. Another option is to approve the list of work for a week. On the Contingent Board, this list was agreed upon. Therefore, please support this list, approve, start work and stop sabotage, because we are awaiting consideration of important socio-economic issues. With regard to the order of the day at the session, Vladimir Vasilevich is absolutely right and will be reinstated again next week. I now propose that we vote and approve the weekly schedule of issues that we should consider. Thank you.
ParlaMint-UA_2013-10-22-m0.u29	Dear National Deputies! We agree with you that next Sunday, in plenary week, I will put to the vote the order of the day of the third session. And now I'm making a proposal to approve the weekly schedule of plenary meetings on October 22-25. People's deputies would like to support this proposal. Please vote. [[10:44:41]] For 202 The decision is not taken. People's deputies don't want to work. So I'm going to call it a 30-minute break, and then we're going to figure out if you're going to work or not? I would like to ask the factions to join the Cabinet of the Supreme Council, Miroshnik Jurija Romanović, as well.
ParlaMint-UA_2013-10-22-m0.u30	Ladies and gentlemen, we continue our work. The Conciliation Board of Faction Managers discussed the issue of the agenda, and we agreed that on the following Sunday, the plenary would begin with the issue of approving the order of the day's third session. And today it is proposed to approve the weekly schedule of plenary meetings for October 22-25. You have a weekly hearing, so I ask the National Deputies to support and vote in favour of the weekly schedule of the October 22-25 plenary meetings. People's deputies, please prepare for the vote and vote. Please vote. [[11:31:50]] For 201 I don't know how to deal with you, distinguished national deputies.
ParlaMint-UA_2013-10-22-m0.u31	I've already given it to everyone. Sit down! Don't scream! Don't scream! 201, vs. - 1, held - 6, not voted - 176. The decision is not taken. Factions please: Region Party 150, Parenthood 16, Vitalia Klitka Strike 0, Freedom 0, Company 27, non-fractional 8. I'm asking for the strike faction and the "Freedom" merger, which of the deputies? One minute, why don't you vote for the agenda? Who's gonna give the Freedom faction? Who, Kayda? Igor Schweika, please.
ParlaMint-UA_2013-10-22-m0.u32	Igor Schwaika, U.S. Union of Freedom. Society! The situation, I'll repeat again, the order of the day per week we can make, we're like the Supreme Council, just getting out of the order of the day session. Vladimir Vasilovich, this is the Rules, this is the Law and we can't walk away from it.
ParlaMint-UA_2013-10-22-m0.u33	Explain to the people of Ukraine why did I put five votes and not vote? Tell me.
ParlaMint-UA_2013-10-22-m0.u34	Because it is necessary to include in the agenda, not the Act on Hunting and Not the Order of Today, not those bills that were rejected three times in this room, but those bills that passed the committees that have been submitted and not one bill from the Universal Freedom Union, which have been passed from several hundred to this week, but to go through a normal legislative procedure.
ParlaMint-UA_2013-10-22-m0.u35	All the committees have made these proposals, the committees. Why don't you vote?
ParlaMint-UA_2013-10-22-m0.u36	We have hundreds of laws.
ParlaMint-UA_2013-10-22-m0.u37	The Freedom Union. Unification. Paul Rosenko.
ParlaMint-UA_2013-10-22-m0.u38	Paul Rosenco, Vitaly Caller's Faction. Vladimir Vasilovich, people don't understand our position, the position of the Supreme Council, why we're withdrawing the issue of social pay, they can't wait for Friday until we hear the minister, she'll tell us something else. It's an emergency, you know? Pregnant and maternity care, unemployment aid, regressive and mining aid is the only kind of income for millions of our citizens. And they can't get this kind of income after six months. And I don't understand why the Party of Regions doesn't want to make this clear to themselves, because they're also asked by their voters why they can't get social benefits. I don't see a problem with why, for example, today at 4:00 a.m., we don't have to listen to a proper minister. What's the problem? Why is the blockage coming? Why Draw to Friday?
ParlaMint-UA_2013-10-22-m0.u39	I ask the leader of the Vitalia Volodymyrovich faction to explain to the National Deputy Paul Rosenk that the Conciliation Council of factions, they have the deciding votes, decided to consider this issue on Friday at the "hour of the government," to consider this one question. All the factions have agreed. So I'm asking you to give information to your deputies. I'm asking the people's deputies to prepare for the vote. I'll put it to the vote again. People's deputies, please prepare. Once again, I propose that the weekly schedule of plenary meetings be approved on October 22 - 25. People's deputies, please vote. [[11:37:03]] For 214 Against three, holding on to twelve. The decision is not taken. The factions. Region Party - 169, Fatherland - 1, Hit by Vitaly Klicka - 0, Freedom - 0, Company - 29, non-fractional - 15. I'll let you in on the secret. I'm gonna open a little secret. On the conciliatory board, we determined that we would establish the weekly agenda. I asked every faction manager: do you have any comments? - Shall we go to work? - Let's go. – Vote for a week? - Vote. So I'm asking you to sign up for factions one minute at a time. Please. People's deputies please sign up. Party of regions, national deputy Zuravsky, one minute. Please.
ParlaMint-UA_2013-10-22-m0.u40	Dear colleagues! There was a problem today about listening to one of the vice-premiers. Well, let's be objective and honest. Who ruined the Supreme Council meeting last Friday? Who tore up this meeting? If some part of the room hadn't torn it down, you'd have listened to one of the vice-premiers. That's an answer to the honourable member of the strike faction. I would like to look to our colleagues and understand: Why were we elected to Parliament? Work for the electorate. Let's not waste our time effectively and go to the polls. And what the leaders of factions and committee heads have agreed to vote in favour of the weekly work plan together. Thank you.
ParlaMint-UA_2013-10-22-m0.u41	The Fatherland faction, Shulga People's Deputy.
ParlaMint-UA_2013-10-22-m0.u42	Vladimir Shulga. Please pass the word to Arsenius Yatsenyuk.
ParlaMint-UA_2013-10-22-m0.u43	Please pass the word to Arsenius Yatsenyuk.
ParlaMint-UA_2013-10-22-m0.u44	Dear Mr. Head! A detailed consideration of the order of the day raises several questions. First. Violation of the Budget Code. This government has never passed the Ukrainian State Budget Act 2014. So we put a key requirement: where is Azarov with a budget that covers the social benefits that ensure the functioning of Ukraine's economy?Oh, my God! We've been demanding this for a month. The other one. Where's the prosecutor's bill? This is one of the key requirements of our European partners and of the people of Ukraine. We need to change the D.A.'s face. Third. We demand the creation of a Special Commission to amend electoral legislation. This is the Central Election Commission Act, the Presidential Elections Act, the Local Elections Act and the Parliamentary Elections Act. These three conditions are necessary.
ParlaMint-UA_2013-10-22-m0.u45	Finish up.
ParlaMint-UA_2013-10-22-m0.u46	These three bills, namely the budget, the Prosecutor's Office Act and the Special Electoral Reform Commission, should be in order today's plenary week. And we're going to the government and we're going to give you this.
ParlaMint-UA_2013-10-22-m0.u47	The Vitalia Klitschka faction, People's Deputy Kaplin.
ParlaMint-UA_2013-10-22-m0.u48	Please give the word to the leader of the faction, Vitaly Klitschek.
ParlaMint-UA_2013-10-22-m0.u49	Don't I hear who to tell? Please, Vitaly Cliché, please.
ParlaMint-UA_2013-10-22-m0.u50	Volodymyr Vasilovich, I spoke twice at the Conciliation Council meetings yesterday and today from the Supreme Council’s rostrum. A lot of social issues, not paying wages. And we demand a lot of references, and I've shown you the references that voters are talking to us. Dozens of these references, that's a very small part. Hundreds, tens of thousands of these references. We demand that the Minister of Social Policy come in this afternoon. If he can't come today, because there's not much time, let him come tomorrow. We don't want to wait a week. And if we have an offer to accept it on Friday, we will be delighted to hear it today. And in addition, we have a question, and on Friday we will also hear the Minister of Social Policy here.
ParlaMint-UA_2013-10-22-m0.u51	Thank you. The faction of the Company of Ukraine is the national MP Martinyuk.
ParlaMint-UA_2013-10-22-m0.u52	Thank you. Martinyuk, faction of the Ukrainian Company. Dear colleagues, especially those working on the regulatory committee, say that we should work only on the basis of the approved order of the day session. And if there is no order of the day session, what does your logic suggest that we should not work at all? There has been a practice: if the agenda of the session is not approved and we cannot confirm it several times already, the Head has put the issue to a vote, then it is absolutely right that, when it comes out of the Rules, it lays down rules for the approval of the weekly agenda. And if we confirm the order of the week, we have every right to vote and work in accordance with this agenda. Perhaps those who do not vote for the agenda simply do not want the sessions to be held. This opens up just a bench, as they say.
ParlaMint-UA_2013-10-22-m0.u53	Freedom Union, Sabia People's Deputy.
ParlaMint-UA_2013-10-22-m0.u54	Please give the floor to Deputy Andrew Mohnik.
ParlaMint-UA_2013-10-22-m0.u55	Please give it to Andrew Mohnik.
ParlaMint-UA_2013-10-22-m0.u56	Andrew Mohnik, faction of the All-Ukrainian Freedom Union. Vladimir Vasilovich, you ask why the faction does not vote for the weekly agenda. More than 400 legislative initiatives are under the All-Ukrainian Freedom Union. To date, only one legislative initiative has been put into the agenda of the weekly session. You're telling us how we're going to explain this to the voters. But you have to explain this to two of the millions of Ukrainians who voted in favour of the All-U.S. Freedom Association, like, why you're not taking our legislative initiatives. And the Party of Regions that is trying to take responsibility today for tearing down the plenary on Friday, I mean, you don't have to run away from the session hall, afraid of, like, holy water, Ukrainian symbols: the blue-yellow flag of the UPA and the red-and-black flag of the Organization of Ukrainian Nationalists who fought for Ukraine's national independence. Glory to Ukraine!
ParlaMint-UA_2013-10-22-m0.u57	Everybody here? They're all here. There's no need to speak and vote, I see.
ParlaMint-UA_2013-10-22-m0.u58	Give me your word!
ParlaMint-UA_2013-10-22-m0.u59	Vladimir Mikhailovich Litwin, please.
ParlaMint-UA_2013-10-22-m0.u60	Dear Volodymyr Vasilovich, honourable deputies! We can get out of this conflict -- put to the vote the order of the day session, including all the questions. Then the Supreme Council, when considering each bill in essence, will be able to hear the arguments for and against and make the appropriate decision. If there is no such will, we may need to move on to the subject. I looked at the schedule here for Tuesday, there are questions that are included in the agenda, so by lunch there is an opportunity to work. During lunchtime, consultations can be held again and a final decision can be made. Thank you for your attention.
ParlaMint-UA_2013-10-22-m0.u61	Thank you. Why don't you put it to a vote Tuesday, one day? [[B in m in s a l in]] Why don't you put it in for lunch? Two factions, the Party of Regions and Communists, requested a recess. So I announce a break of 15 minutes and ask the heads of staff to enter the office of the Supreme Council.
ParlaMint-UA_2013-10-22-m0.u62	I'm asking you to invite the people's deputies to the session room. People's deputies are asked to sit down because we're going to vote. Ladies and gentlemen, the question of the election and release of judges is under review. Let's get to it. [[B in m in s a l in]] Read the Rules rather than scream! Let us now consider the question of the election of judges. I invite you to report to the Deputy Head of the High Qualifications Commission of Judges Pinchuk Mikol Grigorovovich. The draft Regulation 3446 is under consideration. Please report. [[B in m in s a l in]] He wrote me a letter because he had an important reason. And I recommended that Mikola Grigorovich speak. Mikola Grigorovich, please report to Order 3446.
ParlaMint-UA_2013-10-22-m0.u63	Dear Mr. Head, distinguished national MPs! I'm introducing a draft decision on the election of judges. And I ask you to select the judges who were previously elected on an open-ended basis as judges: The Supreme Court of Ukraine, Simonenko, Valentina Mikolayevna; With regard to Lydia Pavlovna Gorbachev, who is proposed for the office of the Supreme Court of Commerce, she is on stationary treatment and has not arrived at the plenary meeting of the Supreme Council. The Court of Appeal of the Luhansk Region of Boukrey Sergey Panasovich, Zinchenko Tetian Alexiyevna; the Court of Appeal of the Lviv Region of Chief Vasil Jaroslavovich; the Court of Appeal of the Plains District of Maximchuk Zou Mikitovna; the Court of Appeal of the Hmeljna District of Fedorov Natalija Alexandrovna; the Court of Appeal of the City of Sevastopol Kabal Igor Ivanovich; Dnipropetrov's Court of Appeal of Krugów Aleksandrovitch; The Kyiv Administrative Court of Appeal, Epel Oxana Volodymyr. Lviv’s Administrative Court of Appeal, Shinkar Tetjan Igorovna Kharkiv’s Administrative Court of Appeal, Fugitive Armen Olegi Choose judges on an untimely basis: Kazankov District Court of the Mikolai district of Bytuk Andrija Volodymirovich; Bilgorod-Dnistrov City Court of Odessa, Shevchuk Yuli Valeriyevna; The Suvorov District Court of Odessa Bodnar Sergey Mikolayovich; Alain Andriyevna, Franciska Yuri Volodymirovic, District Court of the Hersonian district; The Komsomol district court of Herson Prokhorenko Victoria Volodymyrna; Shevchenkov District Court of Kiev Hardin Oxan Petrovna
ParlaMint-UA_2013-10-22-m0.u64	Any comments from the deputies? Please, a faction of Communists, National Deputy Levchenko.
ParlaMint-UA_2013-10-22-m0.u65	Mikhailenko.
ParlaMint-UA_2013-10-22-m0.u66	Mikhailenko, National Deputy.
ParlaMint-UA_2013-10-22-m0.u67	Olga Mikhailenko, faction of the Communist Party of Ukraine, Hersonian. Dear Head, National Deputies, Mikola Grigorovich, has been addressed to me with an appeal regarding the illegal activity of the judge of the Hauptau District Court of Hersona district of Ahtena Andrijavni. To verify these facts, I will refer the material to the Higher Qualifications Commission. Therefore, pending the finalization of all circumstances, I ask that you postpone consideration of the question of the election of Judge Otten. Thank you.
ParlaMint-UA_2013-10-22-m0.u68	Do you have any explanation? Is it a proposal to support and postpone?
ParlaMint-UA_2013-10-22-m0.u69	Today, all the complaints that have been made regarding candidates for judges have been fully considered. If this complaint has come literally at the present time, please direct us, we will check and submit our proposal to the Supreme Council.
ParlaMint-UA_2013-10-22-m0.u70	There is a suggestion to support the MP, not to consider today, but to determine. National Deputy Odarchenko, please.
ParlaMint-UA_2013-10-22-m0.u71	Thank you, Vladimir Vasilovich. Dear colleagues, I have my objection to the election of Simonenko Valentina Mikolayovna to the Supreme Court. You all know that in accordance with the final decision of the European Court of Human Rights, you and I are under an immediate obligation to reinstate Judge Alexander Volkova in the Supreme Court. The Party of Regions had previously refused to do so, since there was no vacancy in the Supreme Court, but now the vacancy has arisen, but somehow we are filling it with another person, not Volkov, but another person, and we will continue to tell them that these places are occupied. I don't mind Simonenko's proposed candidacy, I'm against the fact that Ukraine is the only country in the world that violates the ruling of the European Court of Justice. Please don't support Mrs. Simonenko's election.
ParlaMint-UA_2013-10-22-m0.u72	So you have no claim to her, why not support her?
ParlaMint-UA_2013-10-22-m0.u73	What about the vacancy? How will we implement the judgment of the European Court of Justice?
ParlaMint-UA_2013-10-22-m0.u74	That's the second question. Please.
ParlaMint-UA_2013-10-22-m0.u75	I don't think it's up to me, because there's no claim to be a judge of the Supreme Court of Simonenko Valentina Mikolayevna. It's probably a political issue. What about the mechanism for the execution of the decision of the European Court of Justice concerning Volkov? So I think you're going to work out this mechanism and come up with a solution. Thank you.
ParlaMint-UA_2013-10-22-m0.u76	I beg you, the People's Deputy of Magnitzki, please.
ParlaMint-UA_2013-10-22-m0.u77	Oleg Knaczykki, the All-Ukrainian Freedom Union. I propose to remove from the draft the issue of appointment of the Judge of the Court of Appeal of Luhansk Region of Boukrey Sergio Panasovich. Can I explain why? So today there is an acquittal, a separate court ruling, the Luhani Court of Appeal, concerning the criminal case and the conviction of judges Derevlov, Zaikin, Tobchev for committing a series of crimes. And actually, in that particular resolution, I emphasize, it's not a complaint, it's a judicial decision that's entered into legal force. And it says that the Court of Appeal of the Luhansk Region of December 29, 2010, issued a separate approval, stating, among other things, that one of the reasons that contributed to the commission of official crimes by judges of the Artemian District Court of Donetské.
ParlaMint-UA_2013-10-22-m0.u78	Finish up.
ParlaMint-UA_2013-10-22-m0.u79	That the cause of the crimes being committed by the judges is the lack of proper organization of the work of the court and the office of the court, the lack of proper control of the work of the judges and the office of the court by the head of the court. Actually, the candidate is today in the position of head of the court, and this particular resolution applied to Bucharest, Sergey Panasovich. So I suggest you remove his last name from the Decision Project. Thank you.
ParlaMint-UA_2013-10-22-m0.u80	Please, Mikolo Grigorovich.
ParlaMint-UA_2013-10-22-m0.u81	From my point of view, I don't see any reason to delete from the draft Order of the Named Candidate, because all the complaints that were made about him are properly considered, considered clearly, all these circumstances are known, and I don't see why.
ParlaMint-UA_2013-10-22-m0.u82	National MP Sobolev.
ParlaMint-UA_2013-10-22-m0.u83	Sobolev, the Fatherland faction. Dear colleagues, I have a question for the candidate for office at the Supreme Economic Court of the Gorbachev Lydia Pavlovna. Lydia Pavlovna, please tell us, is it not surprising that the three richest people of Ukraine - Ahemtov, Colomoysky and Pinchuk - are deciding on property issues that are located in Ukraine, not in domestic courts, but in the Court of London? Does this have to do with the level of bribes in Ukrainian courts that even the richest people cannot pay for the solution? [[Applause]] So I'd like to give you an answer. Thank you.
ParlaMint-UA_2013-10-22-m0.u84	Sergey Sobolev, you didn't listen. The question of Gorbachev is not being considered today. She's not here, she's in the hospital. [[B in m in s a l in]] Any questions? May I have your attention, please? Ladies and gentlemen, may I have your attention? Take your seats and vote. The name Gorbachev Lydia Pavlovna and Aline Andriyevna are deleted from the decree. All those who have named are voting. You reported, you were given an answer, and they made a proposal, so we're going to vote. I'm betting on the vote on the Bill (Registration Number 3446) with the exception of the two names to which I'm referring, I've been calling these names about the selection of judges on an uninterrupted basis. Please vote. [[12:35:12]] For a hundred and Against - 1, held - 11, not voted - 172. The decision is not taken. Factions: Regional Party - 154, Fatherland - 0, Vitalia Klicka - 0, Freedom - 0, Company - 29, non-fractional - 11. The decision is not taken. Work. The draft Regulation 3447 is under consideration. I invite you to report to the deputy head of the Justice Council, Alexander Sergiyovich Udovicenko, please.
ParlaMint-UA_2013-10-22-m0.u85	There is a meeting of the High Council of Justice today, the head of the meeting, the honourable national deputies.
ParlaMint-UA_2013-10-22-m0.u86	Report.
ParlaMint-UA_2013-10-22-m0.u87	The Supreme Council's decision to release the judge. According to article 126, part five, paragraph 6, of the Constitution of Ukraine, the Supreme Council decrees: to release Pisotic Oleg Mikolaiovich from office as judge of the Arbusinsk District Court of the Mikolai district in connection with the acquisition of legal force by an arraignment against him.
ParlaMint-UA_2013-10-22-m0.u88	Is there a question? None. [[B in m in s a l in]] Please. May I have your attention, please? I'm betting on the vote of Supreme Council Order No.3447 on the release of Judge Pisocké Oleg Mikolaiovich. People's deputies, please vote. [[12:37:16]] For 245 Against 0. We're holding on to one. There was no vote – 133. Decision taken. The factions. Decision No. 3447-1 of the Supreme Council of Ukraine is under consideration. Report.
ParlaMint-UA_2013-10-22-m0.u89	Order of the Supreme Council of Ukraine on the release of a judge According to article 126, part five, paragraph 5, of the Constitution, the Supreme Council decides to release Kurenkov Evgen Sergiyovich from office as Judge of the Darnitsky District Court of Kiev in connection with a violation of the judge’s oath.
ParlaMint-UA_2013-10-22-m0.u90	Is there a question? National MP, please.
ParlaMint-UA_2013-10-22-m0.u91	Oleg Knaczykki, the All-Ukrainian Freedom Union. I have a question for the reporter. Aware of the decision of the High Council of Justice, it can be concluded that 99 percent of the judges can be released today for violating an oath, on the basis of which the decision was made, in fact, on a non - timely basis. I was personally directed by repeated appeals to the High Council of Justice, to the Higher Qualifications Commission on similar questions about other judges, but the answer came that there was no basis for disciplinary conduct. Please tell me, did the Superior Council of Justice really have a legal basis and consider the violation of the judge's oath that it had a place, or did there have any political implications in it? In particular, I was asked about the judge of the Lichakow District Court of Sheremeta, who released the criminal into prison, and on the second day, the criminal attempted to kill the victim. The answer was that there was a reason for disciplinary responsibility.
ParlaMint-UA_2013-10-22-m0.u92	Answer me.
ParlaMint-UA_2013-10-22-m0.u93	I'm giving an answer about Judge Kurenkov. The decision, or recommendation for his release, was taken by the Higher Qualifications Commission. The Board of Judges accepted this recommendation and makes an appropriate submission. Judge Kurenkov. It's not just a long-term case study -- it's not taking action to deal with cases that even hundreds of people in the court remain in the office, are not transferred to the office, and as a result, the parties are denied access to justice, namely the filing of appeals and so on. The questions about him were carefully considered by both the Higher Qualifying Commission and the Higher Council of Justice. With regard to other questions of the distinguished national MP, please, regarding specific judges there, I'm sorry, I can't answer so abstractly about the judge you called today. But the appeals of the deputies are considered in our own time, and they are considered very carefully.
ParlaMint-UA_2013-10-22-m0.u94	I beg of you, National Deputy Catherinechuk.
ParlaMint-UA_2013-10-22-m0.u95	Mikola Catherinechuk, Fatherland faction, European Party of Ukraine. Mr. Chairman, I would still like a judge whose fate we are about to determine, to make a statement as to what he knows about breaking an oath, which is the reason. And, Vice President of the High Commission, I'd like you to be better prepared for such matters, because. Yeah, there's no heads, and you're probably just asked to stay in the rostrum.
ParlaMint-UA_2013-10-22-m0.u96	I'm ready for that. Moreover, I personally prepared the conclusion of the High Council of Justice regarding the recommendations of the Higher Qualifications Committee regarding the judge as a member of the High Council of Justice. So I can explain in detail what a violation of a judge’s oath is. As for "listen to the judge," please, he's in the hall.
ParlaMint-UA_2013-10-22-m0.u97	Thank you. Do we have a judge? Eugene Sergiyovich Kurenkov? Here's your word. Wait a minute. Please.
ParlaMint-UA_2013-10-22-m0.u98	Deputies! I have been working at the Darnicki District Court in Kiev for 22 years. Of these, he served for three years as chairman of the Labour Protection Commission. That law you passed, the five-year program you've been adopting, the Darni court has been on the road for three years. In order to stop, obstacles have been created. And now I'm in front of you. Please, Your Honor. I will realize that two positions, such positions, are difficult to carry out properly. But the dismissal was because I tried to do it as the head of the court's work committee, which the terrorists blew up nine years ago, and then the formaldehydes got caught after the repairs. And these individuals, more than 70 formaldehydes, were breathing. And formaldehyde is the cause of cancer. That's the way we go. To stop this horror. And create obstacles, and then say, "The judge is guilty." You can tell. But, you know, I'm right in front of you. I told the truth.
ParlaMint-UA_2013-10-22-m0.u99	Do you understand? I'll bet you a vote. I bet on the vote of Order No.3447-1) on the release of Eugene Sergiyovich Kurenkov from the post of Judge Darnitsky of the District Court of Kiev. People's deputies, please, vote. [[12:43:39]] For 203 Against three, held-10, didn't vote 156. The decision is not taken. The factions. Yes. All your questions? Thank you, sit down. What, then, will the national deputies do that did not vote in favor of the judges? What are some suggestions? That's it, isn't it? Can you do that? It's okay, isn't it? No, you can't. I think that today the MPs are electrified, so we ask very carefully to consider all the remarks that were before the judges among the deputies. And you have the right to make proposals by judges, we'll consider these proposals. Good-bye. Ladies and gentlemen, there are two options. The first option is to establish the order of the week. And then there's the second option: to start working. How close are you? Work? Then let's work.
ParlaMint-UA_2013-10-22-m0.u100	I'll tell you what, according to the Rules. We need to consider the question of the selection of individual rural and rural heads. It is vital that we consider these regulations and fulfill our obligation to the local councils. After all, some local authorities have no more than eight months of headship in rural and rural councils. I would like to point out that according to the first part of article 15 of the Ukrainian Law "On the Election of Deputies of the Supreme Council of the Autonomous Republic of Crimea, Local Councils and Rural, Village, Urban Heads" the local elections are scheduled no later than 60 days before the election day. The electoral process begins in 50 days. In view of the above, the Committee on State Building and Local Self - Government proposes that the December 22 elections be scheduled. So I invite the head of the Committee on State Building and Local Self - Rule, Zwania David Vajawicz. Please.
ParlaMint-UA_2013-10-22-m0.u101	Dear Chairman, dear colleagues! At its meeting on September 18, 2013, the Committee on State Building and Local Self - Government considered 78 issues of individual local councils regarding the selection of 69 village and 9 village heads for the next term of their term. In accordance with article 79 of the Ukrainian Law on Local Self-Government in Ukraine, the following are the grounds for the permanent suspension of these heads. In connection with a personal request to the appropriate council for the composition of the head’s credentials, 54 cases have been reported. In connection with the acquisition of legal force, 14 cases were the indictment against the head. In connection with death, there are nine cases. As decided by the appropriate council, 1 case. As a result of the committee’s consideration of problems, the relevant draft regulations with registration numbers 3276-3276/78 were prepared in the Supreme Council. Also at its meeting on June 19, 2013, the committee reviewed the submission of the head of the Luhansk district government administration, Vladimir Prisuk, for the appointment of alternate deputies of the Porecin Rural Council of the Lugano region of Lugansk. The above question was raised by the head of the Regional Public Administration in accordance with the requirements of article 78 of the Ukrainian Law on Local Self-Government in Ukraine. In view of the fact that the Board’s session is not held without the important reasons for the terms set forth in this Law of Ukraine, and the Council does not address matters related to its knowledge, this Order is a registration number for us, 2397a. At its meeting on 18 September 2013, the Committee considered the submission of the Head of the Zaporezsky District Authority, Alexander Pecklusenko, on the appointment of alternate deputies of the Dolin Rural Council and the Dolin Rural Head of the Zaporozhye Region, sent to the Supreme Council in accordance with the position of part four of article 78 and part five of article 79 of the Ukrainian Law on Local Self-Government in Ukraine. The above question was raised by the head of the district government in connection with the suspension of the authority of the Dolin Rural Head, Bogdan Fedchuk, in accordance with paragraph 3 of the first part of article 79 of the Ukrainian Law on Local Self-Government in Ukraine, on the basis of the acquisition of legal force by the defendant's judgment against him. However, in spite of the demands of Ukraine's new Law on Local Self-Government in Ukraine, the Dolin Rural Council did not decide on a permanent suspension of the authority of the Dolin Rural Head and rejected the application of the Procurator's Office of the Zaporozhye Region, requiring the enforcement of the legislative rule for the adoption of such a decision, which resulted in Bogdan Fedchuk continuing to work as a rural head. This is an order with registration number 3277. Also at this meeting, the committee considered the submission of the head of the Zaporozhye district government administration, Alexander Pecklusenko, to appoint alternate deputies of the Town Council and the Stéphane village head of the Zaporez region. Sent to the Supreme Council in accordance with the provisions of part four of article 78 and part five of article 79 of the Ukrainian Law on Local Self-Government in Ukraine. The above question was raised by the head of the district public administration in connection with the early termination of the powers of the Stepna Rural Head of Galina Primenko in accordance with section 3 of the first part of article 99 of the Ukrainian Law on Local Self-Government in Ukraine, on the basis of the acquisition of legal force by the indictment of the court. However, the Town Council has not decided to suspend the powers of the Town Council in the face of the requirements of the Ukrainian Law on Local Self-Government in Ukraine, despite the demands of the Ukrainian Pro-Procuratorial Act, not to consider the submission of the Pro-Procuratorial Prosecutor's Office to the Zaporozhye Region, requiring the enforcement of a legislative rule on the adoption of such a decision, which has resulted in Galina Priminko continuing to work as a rural head. This Order is registered under number 3278. In deciding on the date of the out-of-court local elections proposed in all the above-mentioned projects, the Committee unanimously approved the decision to recommend to the Supreme Council of Ukraine, the Ukrainian Law on Local Self-Government in Ukraine and the Law on Local Elections to appoint successive elections for individual rural, rural, rural, rural, rural, rural, rural, rural, rural, and rural, rural, rural, rural, rural, and rural, rural, rural, rural, rural, rural, rural, rural, rural, rural, rural, rural, rural, rural, rural, rural, rural, rural, rural, rural, rural and rural, rural, rural, rural, rural, rural and rural, rural, rural, rural, rural, rural, rural, rural, rural, rural, rural, rural, rural, rural, rural, rural, rural, rural, rural, rural, rural, rural, rural, rural, rural, rural, rural, rural, rural, rural, rural, rural, rural, rural, rural, rural, rural, rural, rural, rural, rural, rural, rural, rural, rural, rural, rural, rural, rural, rural, rural, rural, rural, rural, rural, rural, rural, rural, rural, rural, rural, rural, rural, rural, rural, rural, rural, rural, rural, rural, rural, rural, rural, rural, rural, rural, rural, rural, and rural, and rural, rural, rural, rural, rural, rural, rural, rural, rural, rural, rural, rural, rural, rural, rural, rural, and rural, rural, rural, rural, rural, rural, rural, rural, rural, rural, rural, rural, rural, rural, rural, rural, rural, rural, rural, rural, rural, rural, rural, rural, rural, rural, rural, rural, rural, rural, rural, rural, rural, rural, rural, rural, rural, rural, and rural, rural, rural, rural, rural, rural, rural, rural, rural, rural, rural, and rural, and rural, rural, rural, rural, and rural, rural, and rural, rural, rural, rural, rural, and rural, rural, rural, rural, rural, I would like to draw your attention to the fact that the date of December 15 is no longer valid, since, according to the part of article 15 of the Local Elections Act, local elections are scheduled not later than 60 days before the election day, and the election process begins 50 days before the election day. To allow Parliament to determine one of the local elections, it is necessary to change the date of these elections by December 22. In the event that the elections are scheduled for December 22nd, it is necessary to change the wording of the regulations to "decisions will take effect from the date of their adoption". Because the decrees were "from the day they were published." Then the law will be upheld that local elections will be scheduled no later than 60 days before the elections. Please support these bills. Thank you.
ParlaMint-UA_2013-10-22-m0.u102	Dear colleagues, I ask you to sit down. I'll put draft regulations to the vote. Please sit down. We have to vote on the rulings. We have a tradition and we vote on the rulings. So let's vote, we don't have to waste time. If you want to work, let's work. Honourable National MPs, I am voting on the draft Decree (Registration No. 3276) on the appointment of consecutive elections for adoption as a basis and as a whole of the Holocaust Village Council of the Bahchisarai Region of the Autonomous Republic of Crimea. People's deputies, please vote. [[12:54:02]] For 219 Against – 2, held – 11, did not vote – 145. The decision is not taken. According to factions of the Party of the Regions - 174, Fatherland - 1, Vitalia Klicka - 0, Freedom - 0, Company - 31, non-fractional - 13. I am voting on the approval of the schedule of meetings of the Supreme Council of Ukraine for October 22-25, 2013. People's deputies, please vote for this. Please vote. [[12:55:00]] For 219 The weekly agenda is not approved. Against 0, held – 12, not voted – 146. Decision taken. The factions. The Party of Regions – 175, Fatherland – 0, Hit Vitalia Klicka – 0, Freedom – 0, Ukrainian Company – 31, non-fractional – 13. The morning session of the Supreme Council of Ukraine is closed. At 4:00, maybe we can keep working, so I'll be waiting for you all in the session room.
