ParlaMint-UA_2013-10-24-m0.u1	Good morning, distinguished national deputies, distinguished guests, invited by the Supreme Council of Ukraine! I'm asking the national deputies to sit down and prepare for registration. Please turn on the "Race" system. [[10:02:30.]] There were 386 national deputies registered in the hall. The morning session of the Supreme Council of Ukraine is open. Today, October 24, world society celebrates the day of the United Nations. It is gratifying to realize that Ukraine is one of the founding nations of the United Nations. We wish this respected international organization further fruitful work, the high expectations of mankind in protecting human rights, ensuring equality among people, and overcoming poverty and violence in the world. May I have your attention, distinguished national deputies. I have a statement from two factions: factions of the Party of the Region and factions of the Communist Party of Ukraine to announce a recess at the request of two factions to make a statement. Please, who's going to make the statement? I'm asking for a speech by the national deputy Vladimir Oliynik, Party of Regions. Please. I'm asking for your attention!
ParlaMint-UA_2013-10-24-m0.u2	Dear Volodymyr Vasilovich, dear colleagues! With the aim of meeting the European Union's demand for Timoshenko and ending the speculation about treatment yesterday, I, as Ukraine's national deputy on our committee of profile, made a proposal to include only in the agenda of the committee of two bills. These are the bills of opposition MPs Mishchenka Sergiya and Angela Labunski on the treatment of Ukrainian citizens who are condemned abroad. But the committee and the committee head categorically refused to put the matter to a vote and closed the committee’s meetings. That means, and the head appealed about what. Cosmiakin. And that means that when the committee head is talking about the Rules and the Violations, I'll tell you that. When it comes to the promotion of the Association Agreement of Ukraine, when it comes to the health of your leader, all references to regulatory standards are cynicism, honourable gentlemen of opposition. This cynicism is self - expression. Two choices. Either you are firmly opposed to signing this agreement, and in this way you want to break it, or you do not want Julia Tymoshenko to be treated today. Because you're afraid today she's going to be free, and you're going to be there in Germany to look her in the eye. The laws of Meshchenka and Angela Labunski are imperfect, and they need to be worked out. And we're ready on condition that the opposition takes an active part in the vote. But these bills can be taken as a base. Even more cynical was the bill, which would not have been supported by the majority, this hall, this is the Arsenius Yatsenuk 2293 bill, which he took out in secret without explaining the public. Why? Because he proposed in this bill that Ukrainian citizens be treated under a convoy abroad to be delivered in handcuffs. So when the author wrote this bill, he probably secretly imagined how Julia Timoshenko, his opponent, would be sent under a convoy abroad. And finally, the last. We have to consider this issue in the Supreme Council Hall and stop speculation, because today we have to understand clearly, and the citizens of Ukraine, opposition is not an opposition to power. From this day forward, you are an opposition against Ukraine and the European Union. Shame!
ParlaMint-UA_2013-10-24-m0.u3	Ladies and gentlemen, two factions have requested a recess. It's a faction of Fatherland and the "Freedom" union. And for the statement, I give the word Arsenia Yatsenyuk, the faction of "The Fatherland."
ParlaMint-UA_2013-10-24-m0.u4	Dear colleagues and not a distinguished Party of Regions, you failed to play in your cynical game, which predicted that Viktor Janukovic did not want to sign a treaty with the European Union, that Viktor Janukovich was looking for any means to transfer responsibility from his shoulders to anyone else, and that the Party of Regions was so afraid of Julia Timoshenko, that he couldn't even think with horror that she would go free. [[Applause]] I publicly demand to the President of Ukraine Victor Yanukovich and the Party of Regions, who should listen to his and the President and do what he says. Viktor Janukovic said last Thursday that he would sign a bill that would meet the key requirement of the European Union, namely, stop selective justice and allow for the signing of the Agreement between Ukraine and the European Union. We expected the President of Ukraine to submit this bill to Parliament for a week. We've been expecting the Party of Regions for a week to introduce this bill. But in our political opponents everything was said and done. That is why we are a responsible political force. which will do everything to undermine the Agreement between Ukraine and the European Union, which will do everything to ensure that Julia Timoshenko is a free man, today, along with our political partners and brothers, namely, the three opposition factions of Parliament, the "Fatherland" party, this is the "Fact of UDA" and the "Freedom" faction, introducing the Law on the Prohibition of Selective Justice to Parliament and removing obstacles to the signing of the Association Agreement between Ukraine and the European Union. [[Applause]] This law meets the clear criteria set by the Council of Ministers of Foreign Affairs of the European Union on 10 December 2012. This is not an individual act of law. This law provides for the prohibition of political persecution against any person who has received a decision in the European Court of Human Rights based on the violation of paragraph 18 of the basic Convention on Human Rights. In that case, if a person has not received an honest one.
ParlaMint-UA_2013-10-24-m0.u5	Arsenius Petrovich, equal rights. I didn't let you finish here for three minutes. Please. [[B in m in s a l in]] No, he asked, I didn't let him finish. 30 seconds, complete.
ParlaMint-UA_2013-10-24-m0.u6	Any person who has received a decision from the European Court of Human Rights in Ukraine will be granted the right under this law either to pardon or to amnesty. This law is essential for the Party of Regions. If, after you've lost the election, God forbid, you're going to be illegally sentenced and jailed for 0 years, but you're going to get a ruling from the European Court of Human Rights, the new President will pardon you. Vote for the law!
ParlaMint-UA_2013-10-24-m0.u7	Ladies and gentlemen, may I have your attention? You've heard two statements. One statement: The committee failed to review two laws yesterday. Because Timoshenko is sick and needs treatment, and we need to help her. [[B in m in s a l in]] I'll find out what was on the committee after 12:30. I'm going to put these two laws here in the session room and we're going to consider this in the session room after lunch. As far as the second law is concerned, register this law, and I'll send it to the committee for consideration, and we'll consider this law. Do you have a deal? List of questions. What you're proposing for discussion and decision-making today is what you have. Don't yell, sit down, let's get to it. The draft Decree (registration number 3394) on Parliamentary hearings on "Taras Shevchenko as a World Value" is being submitted to the 200th anniversary. How will we consider this question? Short-term. Please vote. [[10:14:15]] For 172 Dear national deputies, there will be many votes today. I'm asking you not to run because you're on your way. Have a seat. Everybody just sit down and let's work. I give the floor to the head of the Committee on Culture and Spirituality of Viacheslav Anatoliovich Kirilenko. Please.
ParlaMint-UA_2013-10-24-m0.u8	Viacheslav Kirilenko, Fatherland faction, Party for Ukraine!".. Honorable Colleagues and Honorable Voters! The entire following year will be marked 200 years after the birth of the Ukrainian genius Taras Grigorovitch Shevchenk. Hundreds of monuments around the world stand before our brilliant Ukrainian cobzar, translated by hundreds of other nations. Clearly, the recognition in the world of the Ukrainian genius Taras Shevchenko, the way he is honored by all civilized, developed and educated peoples, gives us reason to view Taras Shevchenk as an article of world importance. It's about 200 years from Taras Shevchenk's birthday. She's going to Ukraine, she's going to the world. Not only foreign Ukrainians around the world are being prepared, foreign nations are being prepared, all people of goodwill are being prepared, who understand the meaning of Shevchenka’s genius not only for Ukraine but also for the whole world. What Taras Shevchenko did for Ukrainian identity and for Ukraine’s future independence is certainly difficult to overestimate. In view of this, the world's Ukrainians, the leading Chewchen scientists, are asking the Ukrainian Parliament to hold parliamentary hearings, "Taras Shevchenko as a World Meaning" to 200 years of birth. Such a draft decree is being considered by both our profile committee and introduced by all members of the committee, representing all five factions of Parliament and nonfractional. Hearings are offered for the purpose of preparing them well, spending March 5, the following year, and inviting them.
ParlaMint-UA_2013-10-24-m0.u9	Finish up.
ParlaMint-UA_2013-10-24-m0.u10	It is proposed that the hearing be held on March 5, the following year, with the invitation of representatives of the organizations of foreign Ukrainians, the leading Chechnya scholars, and the participation of all the political forces represented in the Ukrainian Parliament. Please be supportive.
ParlaMint-UA_2013-10-24-m0.u11	Ladies and gentlemen, there is a proposal to support the committee's decision. Would you like to take the floor? Please, Hanna Herman, one minute. And you'll be the faction.
ParlaMint-UA_2013-10-24-m0.u12	Dear friends, yesterday the President of Ukraine gave the Ambassador of the United States one of the first copies of Kobzara, which was reprinted in English in preparation for the 200th anniversary of Shevchenk. The first time in English was released in 1964 in Canada, and this year only this Kobzar is reprinted in English, which has become a major event in the world. The second copy of this Cobzar was handed over by the President of Ukraine to the library of Vernady. I would also like to thank national deputy Vadim Novinski for his support of the beautiful idea, and he supported the idea that Placido Domingo would sing in the world in Ukrainian for the words of Shevchenk, and Placido Domingo agreed to come to Ukraine with a concert, with songs.
ParlaMint-UA_2013-10-24-m0.u13	Finish up.
ParlaMint-UA_2013-10-24-m0.u14	I propose to support Kirilenko in this and invite Peter Fedinsky, author of the English translation of Kobzar from America, citizen of America. I think what the authorities and the President have done to perpetuate Shevchenk's name in preparation for the 200th anniversary. And what the members of the Party of the Regions have done in support of this -- it really deserves parliamentary hearings so that the Ukrainian people can hear about it, and.
ParlaMint-UA_2013-10-24-m0.u15	From the strike faction, Irina Heratchenko, please. Then the Fatherland and Freedom factions and the Company. All factions will speak in a minute. I'll give it to everyone in a minute, please.
ParlaMint-UA_2013-10-24-m0.u16	Two minutes, Mrs. Herman, two minutes and two minutes, two minutes. Dear colleagues, members of the strike party were in the Marines yesterday. And you know, what's going on there is a diagnosis of the Ukrainian museum business today and how the authorities treat Shevchenk. Even museums themselves cannot tell how many years that authentic house was demolished. In the same way, there is confusion about how much money it takes to repair it. Likewise, do you know that to this so-called reconstruction there was no historian involved, no architect at all, no expert in this matter, and this is all led by the contractor Rajagrobud Zwenigradka, who was famous for only winning all the tenders in this town and doing everything there. He broke this house down by one of his uncles with an axe who didn't have a fixation, or a video, or a photo, of that so-called reconstruction, as the minister told us. There was no proper description of how the house was broken down. And all this ignorance is going on before such important days for Ukraine.
ParlaMint-UA_2013-10-24-m0.u17	Let me finish, please.
ParlaMint-UA_2013-10-24-m0.u18	Dear colleagues, please tell us where the European country of the world could have been so that the reconstruction of the authentic house would begin without public discussion, without information in the media, without expert opinion. Today, all of this, like building garbage, fragments of the house, is lying in the yard, even without the curtain, without the film, because the uncle who was tearing up the house said he didn’t get a penny of money for the breakup. When the money comes, he will hire three people in the village of Morinca.
ParlaMint-UA_2013-10-24-m0.u19	Finish up, finish up, please.
ParlaMint-UA_2013-10-24-m0.u20	In fact, we need to hold an open meeting of the Committee on Spirituality and Culture in the Marines, where we go to representatives of all factions, including to summon Tulub, the minister of culture of Novohatka, to see what's going on.
ParlaMint-UA_2013-10-24-m0.u21	That's it, thank you. Thank you.
ParlaMint-UA_2013-10-24-m0.u22	The Fatherland faction, Yavorowski.
ParlaMint-UA_2013-10-24-m0.u23	Vladimir Yavorowski, Trieste, Kiev, Fatherland. Dear colleagues! If these were hearings like they were from education yesterday, when Dobkin brought a few buses to these subjugated teachers, who, literally, fell into the euphoria and applauded, no one would need them. The other one. These hearings would have to be held now, not even now. instead of someone else. Because it would still be possible after hearing to correct those fatal terrible mistakes that the authorities are making consciously or unconsciously today, I do not know. I'm talking about the destruction in a holy place in the Marines of the destruction of a unique house, the famous house of Chumak, which took 200 years to clean up two million of them. This is what's happening today at the Shevchenka Museum, where actually a devastating old exposition that was, but there's no new exposure, and it's run by, by the way, Larissa Skorik, who's already corrupting the museum on Taras' Mountain.
ParlaMint-UA_2013-10-24-m0.u24	Let me finish.
ParlaMint-UA_2013-10-24-m0.u25	But these hearings need to be conducted, and I propose to make them sooner, because in March this will be a holiday talk to the glory of Taras, which he does not need today, we need it. Let's carry on and conduct these hearings early. Thank you.
ParlaMint-UA_2013-10-24-m0.u26	The Freedom faction, the Pharion People's Deputy.
ParlaMint-UA_2013-10-24-m0.u27	Dear colleagues! Without a doubt, the main antagonist in today’s Ukrainian society is Taras Shevchenko. The power of his figure is that he is superior, that is, more than time. So it is with Shevchenk today that such a strange and boisterous war is being waged. We have very interesting information that 520,000 were removed from the Taras Shevchenk Prize in order to provide municipal expenses for the introduction of additional facilities at Yanuković’s residence in Sinjorah. In addition, 227,000 were removed from the scholarship to the Institute of Strategic Research. I'm already silent about the fact that, for 20 years, the Institute of Literature of the Academy of Sciences has been trying to ensure that Taras Shevchenka's handicrafting legacy finally has its own room, not to be with the Partarchy. That's why we're asking the Vice Prime Minister on Friday to come and report on how. Prime Minister Azarov announced how the 200-year-old Jubilee is being prepared.
ParlaMint-UA_2013-10-24-m0.u28	Give me another minute, and I'll give Herman another minute.
ParlaMint-UA_2013-10-24-m0.u29	Once again, Azarova is on the rostrum, which is clearly meant to mark the strategy of the 200-year-old anniversary of Taras Shevchenk. And one more thing, we need to understand that the main task before us is to make his will come true, and finally, to understand his words, "the evil blood of the blood, the will to be bathed."
ParlaMint-UA_2013-10-24-m0.u30	I beg you, one more minute, Herman. And Volodymyr Mikhailovich Litvina for two minutes.
ParlaMint-UA_2013-10-24-m0.u31	I would like to invite the honourable lady who just spoke to the next meeting of the preparatory committee for the celebration of the 200-year-old Jubilee of Shevchenko. Such meetings take place systematically, in the country and around the world, extensive preparations are being made for the observance of the Jubilee. And the things I was talking about in the rostrum today, another testimony to this. I'm sorry the opposition doesn't know about this. So I ask you to come to the Jubilee, to the Jubilee and the Pre-Villary of Preparation, and you will know everything, and you will not invent any nonsense about where the money is going. Regarding the house in the Marines, I believe, Mr. Head, that we should invite the Governor of Cherkaszczina to Parliament and he should explain it to us. What happened? Why did the public not know about such plans? What are these plans? And what's really going on with this house? I think the question is serious and we need to listen to the governor here.
ParlaMint-UA_2013-10-24-m0.u32	Hanna Mikolayevna, on the conciliatory board, we agreed that the committee would invite Tulub and the entire team involved, they would explain and I would give the committee the floor to give us an explanation. I ask for two minutes – Vladimir Mikhailovich Litwin and two minutes – National Deputy Levchenko.
ParlaMint-UA_2013-10-24-m0.u33	Thank you. Dear Vladimir Vasilovich, distinguished colleagues! I agree with the proposal. That these parliamentary hearings need to get us closer and hold them this year. And in March of the month, we're going to hold solemn assemblies in the Supreme Council of Ukraine on the occasion of the 200th birthday of Taras Grigorovich Shevchenk. Why should parliamentary hearings be held now? For I see that we will soon be museums dedicated to Taras Shevchenk, turning into mausoleum, and will completely consume the spirit of Shevchenk, and the spirit of the Ukraine, and the spirit of the age. I then ask the honourable Supreme Council of Ukraine to support the holding of perhaps an extra parliamentary hearing in November, December 2013. And another suggestion, Vladimir Vasilovich, and I ask you to support Vijacheslav Kirilenko, clarify the subject of parliamentary hearings: Taras Shevchenko – will become a global figure. Are you sure you want to delete? Because it's completely inappropriate here. And I'm addressing you, Vladimir Vasilovich, with this question, probably for technical reasons, for technical reasons, came up with bills that relate, in particular, to the pension reform that we failed to consider yesterday, but the Supreme Council of Ukraine voted in favour of their consideration. I'd like to take that into account. Thank you.
ParlaMint-UA_2013-10-24-m0.u34	I'm begging you, People's Deputy Levchenko, two minutes.
ParlaMint-UA_2013-10-24-m0.u35	Olga Levchenko, Ukrainian Comparty faction, city-hero Kiev. The Company of Ukraine supports the holding of parliamentary hearings on the proposed topic. We hope that as many deputies as possible will attend these hearings, and they will finally hear and realize that Taras Grigorievich Shevchenko is not an icon, not just a singer of Ukrainian land, but a diverse, spiritually rich man who has taken an interest in many aspects of life. In 1858, the great son of the Ukrainian people Taras Shevchenko brought the idea of communism to Ukraine. Having experienced all the “beauty” of the fortress and the soldier, the poet concluded from his life experience in a wonderful work written in Russian: “Walk with pleasure and not without morality”. He said, "It turns out that the idea of communism is not just an empty idea, not a voice screaming in the desert, but that it is convenient for a truly proseic life. Honor and glory to the supporters of the new civilization." I hope at the hearings that Taras Grigorievich Shevchenko wrote in two languages. And if shevchenko's poems are Ukrainian, then he has an artistic prose in Russian. He wrote letters in both languages, depending on the address. What language did Chevchenko mean? If you look at the records that he kept only for himself in his diary, it will be clear: Shewchenko thought in Russian. And for those who still doubt where we're going: to the European Union or to the Customs Union, I'll remind the bright European integrationists of Taras Shevchenko's words: "Let the grain, wheat, as gold covered, remain forever from the sea and to the sea of Slavonic land." He wanted all the Slavs to be good brothers. [[B in m in s a l in]] And I'll tell the screamers from the right room.
ParlaMint-UA_2013-10-24-m0.u36	Thank you. The discussion is over. It's an offer to support the draft decree and there's an orgcommittee to prepare for marking this Jubilee. And they will also hold parliamentary hearings together, and the committee, which is in our country, will consider all these issues. That's why I'm voting on the draft Resolution 3394 on Parliamentary Hearings on "Taras Shevchenko as a World Value (by 200th birthday)" for adoption as a basis and as a whole. Please vote. [[10:32:13]] For 364, Against 0, held - 0, not voted - 49. Decision taken. The factions. Parliament supported this decision. Let us turn to the second reading of the bills. The draft Law (Registration No. 0893) amending the Ukrainian Code on Administrative Offences on Settlement of Matters, which makes it impossible to implement administrative charges, is being considered. The word of Sergio Volodymyrovich Sasa. Please. Please, Sergey Volodymyrovich.
ParlaMint-UA_2013-10-24-m0.u37	Dear Vladimir Vasilovich! Dear National Deputies! Ladies and gentlemen! Your view is on the draft Law on Amendments to the Code of Administrative Offences on Settlement of Matters which prevent the execution of administrative charges (registration number 0893) introduced by the Cabinet of Ministers of Ukraine. On September 6, 2012, the bill was adopted by the Supreme Council of the Sixth Assembly in its first reading and is transitional. The bill proposes to amend a series of articles in section IV of the Ukrainian Code on Administrative Offences, which provides for the recognition of circumstances in which the acquisition of public works or the execution of work may be replaced by a fine or an administrative arrest. Since the committee was tasked with drafting the bill and submitting it to the Supreme Council on second reading, a comparative table to draft Law 0893 was considered at the committee meeting on 17 April 2013. There were three proposals for the bill. One of the national deputies of Palamarczuk and two of the national deputies of Sasa, who were considered complete. The proposal by Palamarczuk Mikoli Petrovich is editorial and aimed at eliminating disagreements within the framework of article 221 with the 3rd Ukrainian Codex on Administrative Offences. Well, these are the changes that have taken place in the framework of administrative reform. As far as I'm concerned, they apply to the replacement of circumstances that make it impossible to perform administrative engagements in the form of public works and correctional work. In particular, circumstances such as the loss of employment, the challenge of part - time service, removal, detention, imprisonment, an unknown place of employment are offered to replace a person with circumstances such as the transfer of a person to work elsewhere, the transfer to a new place of residence, admission to a school, and departure to another place to continue his studies, the assignment to work elsewhere after the end of his study. The bill is being drafted without notice by the Chief Legal Authority of the Supreme Council. In view of the committee’s presentation, he recommends that the bill be adopted in the second reading and generally as a law. Please support the committee's decision. Thank you for your attention.
ParlaMint-UA_2013-10-24-m0.u38	Ladies and gentlemen, all the amendments are included. There are notes that. Please, National Deputy Chechetov.
ParlaMint-UA_2013-10-24-m0.u39	Dear Vladimir Vasilovich, I ask you to place on confirmation 1 amendment and 3rd. Thank you.
ParlaMint-UA_2013-10-24-m0.u40	1st and 3rd. Ladies and gentlemen, Deputy Chechetov has proposed that the first maintenance amendment be made. People's deputies please identify themselves. Please vote. Correction of the Sasa People's Deputy. [[10:37:09]] For-84 Against 0, held – 19, not voted – 306. The decision is not taken. And Amendment No. 3 of the Sasa People's Deputy supports this amendment. Please vote. [[10:37:41]] For 113 Against – 0, held – 24, did not vote – 273. The decision is not taken. Please, Sergey Volodymyrovich.
ParlaMint-UA_2013-10-24-m0.u41	Dear colleagues, thank you very much. But let the colleagues know that they just didn't support it. They did not support an offer that does not allow for the replacement of public works for people whose whereabouts are unknown. That's what the Cabinet of Ministers is offering. How can a standard be applied for the replacement of public works for a fine to persons whose whereabouts are unknown? The issue arises with regard to the implementation of this law with regard to citizens appointed for military service. Well, I think it's clear to everyone that the social status of these citizens is changing when they're called into military service, and there are other responsibilities to such persons, such as disciplinary responsibility, and that's why there's a question. Well, the decisions are not supported, the amendments I made. Well, I don't think under these circumstances our faction will be able to support this bill, but at all will. Thank you for your attention.
ParlaMint-UA_2013-10-24-m0.u42	Thank you. I am voting on draft Act (No.0893) amending the Code of Administrative Offences concerning the settlement of matters which make it impossible to implement administrative obligations for adoption on second reading and in general. People's deputies, please vote. [[10:39:52]] For 292 Against 13, held – 11, not voted – 94. Decision taken. Ladies and gentlemen, the draft Act No.3358 amending article 22 of the Ukrainian Law on the State Budget for Ukraine 2013 on restructuring the actual budget debt through the issuance of financial treasury bills is under consideration. I invite the head of the Budget Committee, Eugenia Borisovich Geller, to report. Please, Eugene Borisovich Geller. Report.
ParlaMint-UA_2013-10-24-m0.u43	Dear Vladimir Vasilovich, distinguished national deputies and invited! The draft Law (No. 3358) was adopted on October 10 on the basis and by order of the Supreme Council prepared by the Committee for second reading in short sentences. In view of the fact that part of the amendments do not contain constructive proposals merely a position to reject, otherwise or not to comply with or directly violate the laws in force, such as the provisions of the Economic and Civil Codes as a result of their discussion by the committee, the decision to reject all proposals has been made. In particular, it should be pointed out that Article 22 of the Law, Decree 683, 720, approves the mechanism for the circulation of financial treasury bills and the marginal volume of their issuance, according to which it is mandatory to direct such bills to the payment of natural gas consumed. According to the Committee on Budget Affairs, the following decision was adopted: recommending to the Supreme Council the adoption of a bill number 3358 on second reading and, in general, as a law proposed in the comparative table of the final draft of the bill, i.e. in the edition of the first reading. Please support the committee's decision. Thank you for your attention.
ParlaMint-UA_2013-10-24-m0.u44	Amendment No. 1 of the Pious People's Deputy People's Deputies. Are you insisting? Turn on the microphone of the Pious People's Deputy.
ParlaMint-UA_2013-10-24-m0.u45	Honorable national MPs, distinguished colleagues, distinguished voters! Once again, we are trying to restructure the budget debt through the Parliamentary Hall to sell money to the surrogates. Today, the Ukrainian financial system and the budgetary system are actually in a state of collapse. Once again, the government is essentially trying to turn its activities into another emission center. This bill cannot be supported in any way, so it has the principle of observation: the bill is anti-Ukrainen, anti-economic, anti-logic and as corrupt as possible. Therefore, I ask you not to vote in favour of this bill. The Fatherland faction won't support him. Thank you.
ParlaMint-UA_2013-10-24-m0.u46	I'm betting on the vote of amendment number one, the People's Deputy. People's deputies, please vote. [[10:44:00]] For a hundred and Correction not supported. Amendment No. 2 of the People's Deputies of Petrenko. Are you insisting? Turn on the microphone of the people's deputy Petrenko. None. Amendment No. 3 of the Rizanenka People's Deputy. Turn on the microphone.
ParlaMint-UA_2013-10-24-m0.u47	The introduction of the possibility of repaying such bills will not in fact solve the difference in tariffs approved for heat and gas differences. So the bill, with the amendments that leave it in its original form, will not lead to anything. So I would like to support my amendment to leave the bill in force, the law in force, without amending it. Thank you.
ParlaMint-UA_2013-10-24-m0.u48	I'll bet on the vote of Amendment 3, People's Deputy Rizanenka. Please vote. [[10:45:17]] For 1052 Correction not supported. Amendment number four, People's Deputy Rizanenko. Are you insisting?
ParlaMint-UA_2013-10-24-m0.u49	I insist.
ParlaMint-UA_2013-10-24-m0.u50	People's deputies, please vote. [[10:45:45.]] For-98 Correction not supported. Amendment No. 5 of the people's MP, Tears. Are you insisting? None. Amendment of People's Deputy Pinzenika Number 6. Are you insisting? Turn on the microphone.
ParlaMint-UA_2013-10-24-m0.u51	Ladies and gentlemen, for the development of a brilliant imaginative idea, I propose that we extend the use of bills to pay for the work of Ukrainian national deputies, the Cabinet of Ministers of Ukraine and the Administration of the President of Ukraine, as well as provide for the priority rights of national deputies, the Office of the President and the Cabinet of Ministers of Ukraine to receive salaries with treasury bills. Please be supportive.
ParlaMint-UA_2013-10-24-m0.u52	I'll bet on the vote of Amendment 6. [[10:47:00]] For 109 Correction not supported. The factions. Region Party - 1, Parenthood - 44, Vitalia Klitka - 23, Freedom - 31, Companies - 0, non-fractional - 10. Amendment No. 7 of the national deputy Kanovts. Turn on the microphone.
ParlaMint-UA_2013-10-24-m0.u53	Dear colleagues, my amendment, it is consistent with the amendments made by Andrew the Great and Paul the Rizanenko in the sense that the law should be left in its proper form and that it should be applied to greenhouses, for those who are in the water supply, the water can be completely inappropriate today. We understand how much this will not solve the issue of their debt to gas suppliers, nor will it help them to fill their circulation costs. Today’s cashiership situation is catastrophic and, using such a mechanism, the state is driving even more utilities into a debt pit. I believe that this bill cannot be supported, and I ask that you support the amendment.
ParlaMint-UA_2013-10-24-m0.u54	I'm betting on the vote of Amendment No. 7 of the People's Deputy Kanovts. People's deputies, please vote. [[10:48:42]] For-103 Correction not supported. Amendment No. 8 of the People’s Deputy Inna of God’s Word. Are you insisting? Turn on the microphone.
ParlaMint-UA_2013-10-24-m0.u55	Dear colleagues, I'm not just insisting, I want to remind you once again of the nature of the amendment. If billed differences in tariffs are paid as amended, these bills may be directed to repay debts for gas supplies and gas suppliers are obliged to accept these bills before payment. If this amendment is not voted on, I find it impossible to uphold the law as a whole. Therefore, I ask all deputies to be very careful about and support this amendment. Thank you.
ParlaMint-UA_2013-10-24-m0.u56	I'm betting on the vote of Amendment No. 8 of the People's Deputy of God's Word. People's deputies, please vote. [[10:49:46]] For 238. Correction supported. The factions. Region Party – 190, Parenthood – 1, Vitalia Klicka – 0, Freedom – 1, Ukrainian Company – 32, non-fractional – 14. Amendment No. 9 of the People's Republic of Golovka. Turn on the microphone.
ParlaMint-UA_2013-10-24-m0.u57	I don't insist. I'm sorry.
ParlaMint-UA_2013-10-24-m0.u58	Don't insist. Head of the Committee, Geller Evgeny Borisovich.
ParlaMint-UA_2013-10-24-m0.u59	Thank you, Igor Grigorovich. Please vote with a view to supporting the amendment of Inna Hermanovna in the second reading and in general. Thank you.
ParlaMint-UA_2013-10-24-m0.u60	Dear National Deputies! Let's go to the vote. I put to the vote a bill (registration number 3358) amending article 22 of the Ukrainian Law on the State Budget for Ukraine for 2013) to be adopted on second reading and as a whole as a law, according to the proposed Committee on Budget Issues in the Comparative Table with a final draft of the bill. People's deputies, please vote. [[10:51:23]] For 237 Decision taken. Factions: Region Party - 192, Fatherland - 0, Hit Vitalia Klicka - 0, Freedom - 0, Ukrainian Company - 31, non-fractional - 14. A draft Law (Registration No. 2264a) on hunting and hunting is being introduced. The rapporteur is Ukrainian national deputy Šufrich Nestor Ivanovich. I offer to consider the reduced procedure. People's deputies, please vote. [[10:52:30.]] For 193 Decision taken. Nestor Ivanovich, please.
ParlaMint-UA_2013-10-24-m0.u61	Thank you. Dear Chairman, dear colleagues! Of course, among the issues that we are considering today, we cannot fail to understand the problems that we are now having in relation to the possibility of using our natural resources. It must be admitted that the Act in force on hunting is no longer in line with the requirements of the times and realities that are taking place today. The law that is proposed for consideration today regulates, on the one hand, the relationship between local authorities and public authorities and the users of treaties, on the other hand, raises responsibility for poaching. Today, imagine these figures: Hungary, a noble deer, the number of these animals in Hungary, 200,000, in Ukraine, about 10,000. I don't want to compare Ukraine with Hungary right now. Today, there are 6,000 bears in Romania, 3 in Ukraine. This may have been the count of all bears in circuses, zoos, and gypsy groups. We have to do everything right now to minimize it on the one hand, because unfortunately we understand that we can't make poaching impossible, on the one hand, to raise administrative and financial responsibility for poaching, on the other hand, to raise the rights of the Jewish service. Because today they have only the right to hold back and wait for law enforcement officials to arrive to prepare the protocol. We respect them, but sometimes it takes more than half an hour. Today, we are proposing to the Jewish service that it be possible to detain the poacher, sign the appropriate protocol, and deliver it to the law enforcement authorities. I am absolutely convinced that those actions that may be possible after the adoption of this law minimize the consequences of poaching.
ParlaMint-UA_2013-10-24-m0.u62	Let me finish.
ParlaMint-UA_2013-10-24-m0.u63	Thank you. They regulate the relationship between the users of hunting grounds. There are very many proposals to this law today, there is even a requirement to raise criminal responsibility for poaching, and I absolutely agree with that. So I'm asking you to support this bill in the first reading and rework it for the second reading, taking into account all the suggestions. Thank you for your attention.
ParlaMint-UA_2013-10-24-m0.u64	Thank you, Nestor Ivanovich. Have a seat, please. The committee has not considered the draft law, but let us listen to the opinion of the committee head. Please, head of the Committee on Environmental Policy, Environmental Management and the Elimination of the Consequences of the Chernobyl disaster Sekh Irina Igorovna.
ParlaMint-UA_2013-10-24-m0.u65	Respectable Society! At its meeting, the Committee on Environmental Policy, Environmental Use and the Consequences of the Chernobyl Disaster unanimously decided to postpone its consideration of the bill and to consider it after obtaining the relevant conclusions of ministries and offices. So today, for consideration by the Supreme Council, it is proposed that the bill be considered by the committee. Well, actually, this is the position of the committee. I want to say personal position to the SKU because there is still an appropriate time: the bill excludes the right of local self-governance authorities of district councils to decide for themselves whether to make use of hunting arrangements, because this project requires agreement with the Central Executive Authority - the State. Clearly, those whose arguments and incentives can be convincing are more likely to get caught up in it. That is, the local government, the district councils, will have a minimal share in this agreement. This bill excludes any influence of land owners and users at the location of hunting grounds on the process of placing them in use. So today, a new bill of the Hunting and Hunting Act is being proposed for what? So we don't see a parallel plate. In fact, today we need to agree with landowners and users, in the field, in other ways, whether there will be hunting on their land or not. Now it's completely gone. And the third, society, is allowed to call it "voluntary hunting." The size of the volunteers is not indicated. Surrounding the woods.
ParlaMint-UA_2013-10-24-m0.u66	Let me finish.
ParlaMint-UA_2013-10-24-m0.u67	And they'll say it's a volier. And what's most terrible and scary is that in this volley, you can hunt the beast every year and you can't let go, it's not easy. rather than allow simple people to collect berries but to miss only environmental inspectors. And for the rest of you, you're allowed to hunt aliens. So this bill, actually.
ParlaMint-UA_2013-10-24-m0.u68	Thank you. Do you want to talk about it? Please sign up for factions. Sergey Vasilovich Kiwalov, come in. Freedom Union, People's MP Mirny.
ParlaMint-UA_2013-10-24-m0.u69	Thank you, Vladimir Vasilovich. Please give the floor to Tajniboku Andrija Jaroslavovich.
ParlaMint-UA_2013-10-24-m0.u70	Andrew Tuggnibok, please.
ParlaMint-UA_2013-10-24-m0.u71	Good afternoon, respectable company! Andrew Tuggnibok, 125th constituency. Turkish, Skoljska, Starobrščina are the areas where our hunters like to hunt the most. First of all, I want to go to the hunters, not the owners of the hunting grounds. This bill, it provides enough to complicate the free system itself. But we have a few more interesting nuances about volunteer hunting. Well, first of all, we don't have a clear position on the limits of the volley itself, or it's going to be one hundred acres, or it's going to be 300 acres. Appropriately, it restricts access to the territory itself. Respectable Society! The hunters know one simple rule: Every written rule of weapons is written in blood. You can't hunt at night, it's written down. It's written in blood, you can't hunt. The poachers like it -- hunting on the headlights, hunting out of the car at night, not hunting out of the car, not closer than a mile from the inhabited site, because the different weapons, you know what it is. Yes, today it's written in the law -- 200 meters, but 500 meters -- it's too small. And who, if not you, the venerable hunters, know what indiscretion is when weapons are passed on to a stranger. Because in this bill we have a point where we can pass on the so-called hunting tourism to a man who hasn't passed away. He doesn't have a record of dealing with weapons, he doesn't have a hunting license. So a man came to himself, paid for his money.
ParlaMint-UA_2013-10-24-m0.u72	Thank you. Party of regions, national deputy of Žuravsky.
ParlaMint-UA_2013-10-24-m0.u73	Dear colleagues, this bill will of course be supported because it regulates the order of damages to the user of hunting grounds, organizes the names of animals and terminology in the field of regulation of the bill, increases the responsibility for offences in the field of hunting and hunting, protection and use of animal objects. It is proposed to amend other acts of Ukrainian legislation that are necessary if the bill is to be adopted. In particular, the Ukrainian Code on Administrative Offences, the Ukrainian Act on Animal Health and the Ukrainian Law on the List of Permitted Documents in the Field of Economic Activities. The adoption of the bill will help preserve the state hunting fund, increase the number of animals and expand their distribution, protect the economic interests of hunters. The implementation of the law will not result in negative socio-economic and other consequences. So the faction of the Party of the Regions calls on the people's advocates to support this important bill. Thank you.
ParlaMint-UA_2013-10-24-m0.u74	Thank you. The Fatherland faction, Mikola Tomenko. Please.
ParlaMint-UA_2013-10-24-m0.u75	Dear colleagues! I am here as the author of a series of drafts that have been organized and unfortunately have not completely regulated fishing and fishing in Ukraine. And unfortunately, in the previous convocation, everything about bringing European standards to hunting didn't go through in this session room. But I never thought that there would be a bill in this vocation where all of Ukraine will be divided into two categories: elite hunters who can shoot anywhere and every day, and average hunters who are not allowed to appear on the hunt at all, because there are fines and such procedures that we are now being listened to by hunters who have spent their entire lives hunting in rural areas, under this law they will not have the right to do so at all. This law, my friends, will create a "marigree" in every area. And in that "marigres" the local princes will come and have a rest. Now let's vote on this and take away what's left of people. Today they'll go out into the woods, pick up some strawberry mushrooms. Classics such as the governor of the Hmélník district of taxes have brought on mushrooms, and now, if they do not agree with the roosters and disagree with local self - government, people are not going to be able to get out during the planned hunting season, they will not fit the forest. You will complete what you will do in the Bakery and by buying a license in Kiev, there will be hunters of 100 or 200 people flying over Ukraine. It's a disgrace. And I'm convincing everyone that they won't vote for this bill. For if we are talking about European standards, go see what conditions are in the Czech Republic; go see what conditions are in Poland. And you have this circus here, translating the category of elite hunters -- officials, deputies -- and destroying the entire system of fishing in Ukraine. I fully support Irina Sekh and the committee that made the unanimous decision. We cannot vote for this law.
ParlaMint-UA_2013-10-24-m0.u76	Hit Vitalia Calla, National MP Rosenko.
ParlaMint-UA_2013-10-24-m0.u77	Please pass the word to Sergio Averchenk.
ParlaMint-UA_2013-10-24-m0.u78	Please give me your word.
ParlaMint-UA_2013-10-24-m0.u79	Sergey Averchenko, Vitaly Klitschka Faction. Dear friends! With regard to this bill, he foresees allowing the use of hunting grounds by public organizations and other businesses without creating appropriate hunting units. Allowing the hunting of foreigners and taking over local self - control authorities to manage their hunting grounds. This right is passed on to Kiev. As far as fines are concerned, the situation here is very scary. Because if there were six to 60 untaxed minimum fines before for hunting, now there are 100 to 500 fines. That is, a person will be afraid to take up arms in the first place. And as for the introduction of the volunteer. There are no defined limits to this volley and there is a general lack of public control, control of any control authorities over when and who will hunt these animals. I personally believe that there is a desire in this bill to redistribute hunting grounds in the country. He has been working for the second or third time. But the Vitalia Klitschka faction won't vote for this bill.
ParlaMint-UA_2013-10-24-m0.u80	Thank you. The discussion is over. Ladies and gentlemen, we're all here. Dear National Deputies! I ask you to sit down and prepare for the vote. Then we'll all have a minute. Please, a minute, Anna Herman. And we'll vote.
ParlaMint-UA_2013-10-24-m0.u81	Dear colleagues! I'm sorry that in the Ukrainian Parliament, with such cold cynicism, we're discussing where we can kill, where we can't kill, who we can't let kill animals, and who we can't let. You remember a story with an MP from "Fatherland" Lozinski who shot a man on his own terms just because he didn't like the fact that that man would interfere with him could hunt him down on his own terms. So I think the first thing we should have done in Ukraine is to stop killing animals in the first place. And if we let that happen, we can't let the local princes get permission to do that because they're going to be shot, just like Lozinski shot the "Fatherland" party.
ParlaMint-UA_2013-10-24-m0.u82	Thank you. Ladies and gentlemen, I am voting on the draft Law (No. 2264a) on hunting and hunting for adoption as a basis. People's deputies, please vote. Don't yell, vote. [[11:09:33]] For the 220. Against 78, held – 8, did not vote – 104. The decision is not taken. The factions. There is an offer to refer to the committee for review in the first reading. Don't yell, I'm asking you to vote. Please vote. [[11:10:18]] For 231 Against – 76, held – 6, not voted – 99. Decision taken. The factions. You see, by voting you can make all the decisions, not scream. If there is no motive, read the material portion. A draft Act amending the Ukrainian Law on the State Budget for Ukraine 2013 is under consideration to pay off the debt for energy resources. How do we view it? Vote who wants a reduced procedure. Please vote. [[11:11:26]] For 184 Against 74, held – 8, not voted – 146. Decision taken. I invite you to report to the Ukrainian national deputy, Arthur Volodymyrovich Martovicki. Are you Arthur Volodymyrovich? Please. Please.
ParlaMint-UA_2013-10-24-m0.u83	Honorary Volodymira Vasilovich, distinguished colleagues, your opinion is proposed for consideration by the draft Ukrainian Law amending the Ukrainian Law on the State Budget for Ukraine 2013 on the payment of the debt for energy resources (Registration No. 3057). The implementation of the rules of law will allow for the repayment of debt from a difference in tariffs resulting from the inadequacy of actual costs for the provision of heat and water services to these services, which has been approved or agreed upon by the relevant authorities or local authorities; the repayment of debt to central water undertakings and the recovery of electricity consumed in past periods by energy-efficient companies; the provision of electricity bills to state-owned enterprises, third-group mines and the settlement between participants in the wholesale electricity market. With a view to improving the financial situation of such enterprises and providing timely electricity consumption accounts, it is proposed that subsidies from the state budget should be provided to local budgets to cover the difference in debt in tariffs for thermal energy, centralized water supply and water supply, which were produced, transported and supplied to a population of 1.3 billion dollars. Sources of electricity calculations for state coal companies, a third - group mine worth 240 million dollars. The sources of funding determine the revenue to the General Fund of the State Budget from the payment of the tax debt on the revenue of the state-owned enterprise Energoatoma, amounting to 1 billion 540 million dollars. So the bill defines a more real source of accounting for differences in tariffs due to an increase in the income of the General Fund of the State Budget. In view of the relevance and necessity of the bill, I propose.
ParlaMint-UA_2013-10-24-m0.u84	Finish up.
ParlaMint-UA_2013-10-24-m0.u85	I propose to adopt draft Law (No.3057) as a basis and as a whole as a law, taking into account the comments and suggestions made in the budget committee's conclusions. Please be supportive. Thank you for your attention.
ParlaMint-UA_2013-10-24-m0.u86	Thank you. Have a seat. Eugene Borisovich Geller. Please.
ParlaMint-UA_2013-10-24-m0.u87	Thank you, Vladimir Vasilovich. Dear Volodymyr Vasilovich, distinguished national deputies and invited! Bill No. 3057 amending the State Budget Act 2013 submitted by the author to you by the Budget Committee on 9 October. With a view to resolving energy accounting issues, the bill provides for a change in the sources of subsidies to local budgets to pay off the differences in tariffs and channelling the resource to pay off the debt for electricity consumption by an industrial enterprise. In order to properly implement the provisions of the bill, the Government is invited to further define the mechanism for granting this subsidy and to carry out the payment of the debt for electricity consumption at the expense of the draft revenues to the general fund of the State budget. Taking into account the proposal made by the Ministry of Finance, the committee in the drafting and consideration of the bill, the proper adjustment of the revenues of the special State budget fund is taken into account, and it is brought into line with the requirements for changes to the state budget of the indicators in the addenda to the bill. Moreover, in order to ensure budgetary balance, the summary figures of the State budget need to be clarified in the text and in the addenda to the bill, taking into account the changes to the State budget adopted by the Supreme Council before considering the proposed draft on October 8th and today. The relevant proposals are made in a letter to the committee on this bill. As a result of the review, the committee adopted the following decision: recommend to the Supreme Council the draft Law (at number 3057) on the basis of the first reading, and generally as a law, taking into account the committee’s proposals. listed in a letter to the Supreme Council. Accordingly, the Committee on Budget Affairs, together with the Chief Executive, the Legal Authority of the Supreme Council, is to submit a bill to the Head of the Supreme Council at the time of its adoption.
ParlaMint-UA_2013-10-24-m0.u88	Finish up.
ParlaMint-UA_2013-10-24-m0.u89	the need for editorial and technical legal clarifications to the text and additions to this bill, which relate to the committee's decision on the ambiguous bill. Please support the committee's decision. Thank you.
ParlaMint-UA_2013-10-24-m0.u90	Thank you, sit down. Would you like to speak? I'm asking the factions to sign up. The Vitalia Klitschka faction, the national deputy of Cherneg.
ParlaMint-UA_2013-10-24-m0.u91	Roman Cherneg, Vitaly Caller Faction. Please pass the word to Paul Rosenck.
ParlaMint-UA_2013-10-24-m0.u92	Please, Paul Rosenko.
ParlaMint-UA_2013-10-24-m0.u93	Paul Rosenco, Vitaly Caller's Faction. I would like to draw your attention immediately, Vladimir Vasilovich, to the faction that the impact of this bill has made significant remarks to it and we strongly deny its vote today as a whole. Therefore, you can place the Rules on the basis of voting only. And in fact, I think it's completely absurd. The head of the budget committee has just come from the rostrum of the Supreme Council of Ukraine to say that there are a lot of comments to this bill on the committee at the Ministry of Finance. They're being formed by some kind of letter to an incomprehensible committee, and they're now forcing us to legitimize this illegal decision of the committee, and to approve the bill, both on the basis and in general. And this is about changes to the State Budget Act of Ukraine. And we never got an answer from the government, why didn't the government implement the Ukrainian State Budget Act 2013? Why did the first quarter not change the 2013 budget? Why today, as a result of this policy of government, as a result of this policy of power, all the budgetary institutions in Ukraine today are across Ukraine, forced to release their teachers, teachers, health workers on forced vacations. And we're here now with this bill thinking about how we can improve the state of private companies. And as for the fate of teachers and doctors, there is no reason for the party of power today. Therefore, the bill cannot be put to the vote in general, and the strike faction will be held back from.
ParlaMint-UA_2013-10-24-m0.u94	Freedom Union, People's MP Mirny. Please.
ParlaMint-UA_2013-10-24-m0.u95	Alexander Mirny, the All-Ukrainian Freedom Union. Dear Volodymyr Vasilovich, honourable deputies! We demand, we demand tomorrow, the Prime Minister of Ukraine's "day of government." Because coming here, people who don't answer for a single word, are sick of it. You see what we're looking at today? We are considering billions of questions! We have to ask the question why we first drive the industry with tariffs, like the Gethtman of the Vygow Moscow horsepower under the Konotap into the swamp. Then we create billions of debts, then we look for ways to pay off, and we find nothing better because there is no money in the budget. It's like a hypothetical tax on the profits of NAC Energoatom, which is cost-effective, to pay these billions. I'm sorry. Is the "Energy" debt to the NAC "Energot" gone yet? We no longer remember the billions, what will we pay for? And in general, why did we argue that our mines, peat mining enterprises, have billions of debts? Where's the management? Where is the head of this management of the prime minister of Ukraine? Why are they not responsible for what they have done? It's a crime, it's the billions that are disappearing. And we want to take away those programs that have to be funded by the budget and send out the debt to private electricity producers. Bravo! So let's not call ourselves the Supreme Council of Ukraine, let's be clear where is the group of those where the group of those where the group are? But there is also a group of statesmen called the All-Ukrainian Union of Freedom that will never support such bills. Glory to Ukraine!
ParlaMint-UA_2013-10-24-m0.u96	All those who wanted to speak, all expressed their thoughts. So I'm making a proposal to the committee. I am voting on the draft Act (No. 3057) amending the Ukrainian Act on the State Budget for Ukraine 2013 on the payment of the debt for energy resources to be accepted on the basis and in general, taking into account the budget proposals of the Committee. I'm going to make a proposal to the committee first. People's deputies, please vote. [[B in m in s a l in]] Vote. Well, no. Let's do it. [[11:22:50]] For 223 Against 63, held – 6, not voted – 119. The decision is not taken. The factions. I'll bet you a vote to send to the committee for a second read. People please. People's deputies, please vote. On re-reading, please vote. To withdraw the vote. What? [[B in m in s a l in]] . Dear National Deputies! I put to the vote the committee's proposal, the committee's proposal. So I would like to pay attention to the vote on the draft Law (3057) amending the Ukrainian Law on the State Budget for Ukraine 2013 to pay off the debt for energy resources for adoption as a basis. Please vote. [[B in m in s a l in]] [[11:24:52]] For 226 Against 44, held – 4, did not vote – 137. Decision taken. [[B in m in s a l in]] Sit down, I'll give it to you, I'll give it to you. [[B in m in s a l in]] Honorable National MPs. [[B in m in s a l in]] May I have a moment, National Deputy Rosenko? Please.
ParlaMint-UA_2013-10-24-m0.u97	Dear Vladimir Vasilovich! Paul Rosenco, Vitaly Caller's Faction. We do not need to disturb the meetings of the Supreme Council, we have normal practice, according to the Rules, which is that the Rules clearly spell out, if there is a remark by the Ukrainian National Deputies, you do not have the right to put the law to the vote in general, even though there is a decision of 10 committees. This is not in line with the Rules, and we have always had such a standard. And that's why we don't need to be broken across the knee. We will be very keen to respond to all the violations of the Rules that are taking place today in the hall. And I'm asking our colleagues to take the floor, because there's been no personal vote during the last vote.
ParlaMint-UA_2013-10-24-m0.u98	Dear National Deputies! Theological Inna, please.
ParlaMint-UA_2013-10-24-m0.u99	Dear colleagues! I want to make your point that there was a committee decision, it was put in place in general. [[B in m in s a l in]] Excuse me, don't scream, please. It was put to the vote and did not vote, but the decision to adopt the law in the first reading, rather than the general vote. So please, whatever you think you need to do to complete the second reading, get involved, we'll support your suggestions. Thank you.
ParlaMint-UA_2013-10-24-m0.u100	Dear National Deputies! A draft Act (No. 2054a) amending the Ukrainian Tax Code on the calculation and registration of taxpayers and second reading is under consideration. Reported to the head of the Committee on Tax and Customs Policy, Vitaly Yuriovich Homutinnik. Please.
ParlaMint-UA_2013-10-24-m0.u101	Dear colleagues, dear ones.
ParlaMint-UA_2013-10-24-m0.u102	I beg you, the MPs say they didn't vote in person: Vasiliev, for Vasiliev or anyone else. Please vote in person. [[B in m in s a l in]] Report! [[B in m in s a l in]] Vote! Let's set it up! [[B in m in s a l in]] I'll put it on the vote. Ladies and gentlemen, please sit down, because the MPs raise the question that the Law 3057 voted 226 but there is a non-personal vote. I'll put it to the vote now. I'll do it again. Vote in person! I'm telling you again! [[B in m in s a l in]] Alexander Sergiyyovich, call the national MPs. I'm asking you to invite the people's deputies. I have to put them to a vote. So I'm done. [[B in m in s a l in]] Alexander Sergiyovich, please. Sit down, I'll put you to the vote. I know, I know. Ladies and gentlemen, please sit down and prepare for the vote. Ladies and gentlemen, may I have your attention? I'm betting on the vote on the draft Law (3057) amending the Ukrainian Act on the State Budget for Ukraine 2013 to pay off the debt for energy resources, to be accepted as a basis. People's deputies, please vote. [[11:32:19.]] For 232 Against 74, holding back to 3, not voting 102. Decision taken. The factions. Please, National Deputy Homutinnik Vitaly Yuriovich, report the law.
ParlaMint-UA_2013-10-24-m0.u103	Dear colleagues, distinguished national MPs, reverend Vladimir Vasilovich! The committee considered Bill 2054, which included 153 amendments to the national MPs. We were looking at this bill last night for two hours, and we agreed on all the questions. The only explanation needed is the regulatory committee’s position in which the national deputy makes an application to withdraw his amendment, which should be done in such a case. It's a situation. I'd like MacKeen to have a regulatory committee.
ParlaMint-UA_2013-10-24-m0.u104	Dear national deputies, they do not agree to consider the law. So I'm going to put it to a second reading and a whole vote right now. I am voting on the draft Act (2054a) amending the Ukrainian Tax Code on the calculation and registration of taxpayers. Acceptance in second reading and in general. Please vote. [[11:34:21]] For 239. Against 38. We're holding on to one. We didn't vote - 136. Decision taken. I suggested: let's look at the law, let's look at the amendments. You're not letting it happen. I should have put it -- I put it up. The factions. The factions. [[B in m in s a l in]] The factions. Region Party - 188, Fatherland - 0, Vitalia Klicka – 1, Freedom – 0, Company – 31, non-fractional – 19. A draft Act (3099) is under consideration to amend Ukraine’s Land Code for the cost of preparing and conducting land trades. How will we view it? Please, I'm sorry. I'm sorry. I'm sorry. [[B in m in s a l in]] [[11:36:00]] For-183 A summary decision has been made. First Deputy Head of the Agrarian Policy and Land Relations Committee, Kutovy Taras Viktorovich. Please. You won't? The reporter won't report. What are some suggestions? [[B in m in s a l in]] You've already announced the break. And you announced! And you announced! [[B in m in s a l in]] I'm not blocking! Report the law. I'll bet you a vote. May I have your attention, please? [[B in m in s a l in]] Break's in 20 minutes! Two factions took a break under the Rules. I see you don't want to work. It's all right, isn't [[B in m in s a l in]] Dear National Deputies! We've got a break, so within 10 minutes of the first hour, take a break, go have a seagull, national MPs. And the faction leaders, I ask you to enter the office of the Chief of Staff of the Supreme Council. Please.
ParlaMint-UA_2013-10-24-m0.u105	holding consultations of factions' leaders at the head of the Supreme Council of Ukraine. The morning meeting of the Supreme Council is closed. Switch to 16 o'clock.
