ParlaMint-UA_2013-06-05-m0.u1	Good morning, distinguished national deputies, distinguished guests of the Supreme Council of Ukraine! I'm asking the people's deputies to prepare for registration. Turn on the "Race" system. [[10:02:02:02]] There were 373 national deputies registered in the hall. Therefore, the morning session of the Supreme Council of Ukraine is open. Today is the birthday of the Ukrainian National Deputies Rizenkov Alexander Mikolaiovich, Zybenko Petra Stepanović, Chumak Viktor Vasilovich. [[Applause]] Let's congratulate our nouns on our birthday and wish us success. We'd have more minutes like this in the Supreme Council. Honorable National MPs, announcements. In accordance with article 25 of the Rules, on Wednesday we have 30 minutes to present proposals, announcements, statements, messages. So I'm asking the attention of the National MPs, and I'm asking you to sign up for the speech. The word is given to the faction of Fatherland, National Deputy Kurpil. National MP Tomenko. Please.
ParlaMint-UA_2013-06-05-m0.u2	Dear colleagues! In recent days, the discussion of where Ukraine is moving has intensified and what citizens expect of us in the near future. I want to say on behalf of the Fatherland faction that the choice of the Ukrainian State is not defined by valid legislation, although it is equally important, it is defined by history, tradition, the aspirations of our people. We are a geographically European country and a country that can bring our values into line, our history with real politics that takes place in the country. And when we're told that we don't really support the European choice in practice, I want to stress that the European choice is not signing an agreement to harm a neighbouring state or an agreement with a neighbouring state of Russia at night to offend Europe, it's a step towards the values that should be implemented in the country. We cannot support the signing of a treaty with the European Union of the Ukrainian State, where there is contempt for law, disregard for human rights and contempt for fundamental values. That's why both the European Commission and we as opposition talk about the following. We have until November to bring Ukraine to European standards. We must sign an association on a treaty not with dominant political persecution and with Timoshenko in prison, not with a reformed law enforcement system and a corrupt judicial system. We have three major commitments to make in November: Tymoshenko must be free; the judicial and legal system must be reformed, not corrupt; and the Electoral Code and all problems with the constituencies must be resolved. Today, we offer a compromise formula. On October 27, we hold elections in five districts where our candidates actually won, and they are real deputies. But if that happens, we are ready to prove once again that in October, Ukrainian citizens support the opposition. We know that the President has instructed those districts to move the heads of the district administrations, because there is no one left to put out who can win. We took it as positive information. Because the heads of the district administrations in these five districts had just falsified the elections. And for those forgers to go to the polls with our candidates, it would be right for people to make an assessment. So on October 27, the election in five districts, and of course Kiev's right to choose its local self-government. I think they have already completed their career, and we hope that Kyiv too will have the Kyiv Council and the city’s head. So, friends, for European values and for Ukraine in Europe!
ParlaMint-UA_2013-06-05-m0.u3	The Fatherland faction, the Sanchenko People's Deputy. Please. The word is given to the national MP Bondarenko.
ParlaMint-UA_2013-06-05-m0.u4	Vladimir Bondarenko, united opposition, Fatherland. In the last few days, there has been a lot of talk about the Constitutional Court's decision concerning Kiev. Of course, everyone has understood, especially those with legal education, that this decision only refers to the elections that are to take place in this country under the new Constitution, that is, on the last Sunday of October 2015. But once again we emphasize that the city of Kyiv was in the process of holding successive elections. The city council of Kiev was then elected, and a mayor had previously been elected, who had completed his cadence more than a year ago. Therefore, we will not be able to avoid the issue of elections in Kiev. And I think that everyone sitting in this room today is all the Chinese who are temporary, who are permanent, and I think that all of you, like me and many of the Chinese, don't like that there are no normal roads in Kiev today, that there is no normal housing system in Kiev today, that in Kiev there are from time to time things that don't come up, especially Kiev has built a huge complex of hearts for its own money, which has been passed on to state property, today no Chinese can get medical assistance there. And for the Chinese, named for the Chinese, it cost $50 million, which was borrowed abroad, then returned. The same thing continues again today: in the cancer center in my area there is equipment that is worth Kiev’s budget that does not work. It was purchased at the time. I think that these things go on and on in simple cases, like the Leipzig Chestnut Avenue in Kiev, which is planted on the Chrystec and many others. So in Kiev, we need normal power, controlled both by central government and by citizens of China. Yesterday, I taught about the concept that Kiev should be. Of course, it should have full self-government, which includes council, mayor, district councils and executive committees of the city's districts, as well as government administration, because Kiev is the capital. And the government has to control the activities of the central services in Kiev of the state, and sometimes deny the decisions of local self-government if they do not comply with the Constitution and the laws. We're gonna have to run elections in Kiev anyway. But there can be no talk of an election in the summer, in the August months that some are talking about today, let's take a separate mayor, separately to the council, and also in August. Well, it's all propaganda, it's a complete set of push-ups that are possible. We have a decision today. the mass of decisions already made, more than 140 decisions regarding the holding of elections in Ukraine in separate administrations on October 27. So Kiev also has to hold elections for the mayor and the Kyiv City Council on October 27th, to recreate self-government, and you and we all have to play a great role, because we are the Chiyans, we are the people's deputies, it's our function. Thank you.
ParlaMint-UA_2013-06-05-m0.u5	Communist faction, National Deputy Zubcevski.
ParlaMint-UA_2013-06-05-m0.u6	Dear colleagues, distinguished voters! The faction of Communists from the rostrum of the Supreme Council of Ukraine has repeatedly drawn attention to the crisis in the industry of our country. Industrial production has declined over the past eleven months. This is not surprising, as the policy pursued by the Government of Ukraine is increasingly rudimentary to the country's industry, destroying the domestic producer. This is also supported by the existing system of electricity tariffs for enterprises. The failure of the Government to comply with its own Order on the introduction of a special, economically sound tariff for ferro-floating factories has already led to the closure of Zaporozhye and Stahanov Ferro-Floiting Plants in due course. It was only when the State Energy Company implemented the Kabmin decision on the introduction of electricity benefits six months later that enterprises were able to do their job. No one points out, however, that hundreds of workers have been reduced during simple periods of time, and that public and local budgets have been cut short. There is currently a ferroelectric plant on the verge of halting, and the same is due to the high price of electricity. It turns out that when he decided to introduce energy allowances for ferro-floating enterprises, he allegedly forgot to mention the ferro-floating plant. Nine of the sixteen kilns were now stopped there, the production plan was reduced by forty per cent, and more than two thousand workers were on forced leave, and a full stop of the plant was not excluded until July of this year. With high electricity prices of $93 per megawatt per hour, it is simply unrealistic to compete with countries where the ferro-floaters pay $50 per megawatt per hour, such as Russia or the United States. The losses in 2011 alone amounted to 2.8 billion grevens. We Communists are not interested in the loss of the oligarchs. We are interested in the situation of the workers of these enterprises, the opportunity to obtain a job, a decent wage, and the opportunity to maintain their families. This is what is at the forefront of our Kabmin requirements: to decide immediately on the introduction of electricity benefits for the Nicopol Ferro-Floitation Plant and to extend the benefits for Stahanovsky and Zaporozium Ferro-Floiting Plants at least until 2015. I recall that the benefit ends in 2013, which means that the crisis with ferro-floating enterprises can happen again. In turn, the Communist deputies have submitted a request to the Supreme Council to the Prime Minister for urgent measures to introduce a special tariff on electricity for all Ferrous Power Plants. Vladimir Vasiljevic, I request you to make this request available at this plenary week, so that it can be promptly reviewed by Kabmin and the relevant decisions taken. I appeal to the electorate: see who is preventing today from speaking and sounding the problems of reality that concern the people of Ukraine. Nationalists in power in the three regions of Western Ukraine are being mixed up.
ParlaMint-UA_2013-06-05-m0.u7	Finish up.
ParlaMint-UA_2013-06-05-m0.u8	where their hands are completely destroyed by industry. Instead of taking specific care of a person, they are interested only in national ownership and language, as well as in their own pocket. That's why they're so throaty. Thank you for your attention.
ParlaMint-UA_2013-06-05-m0.u9	Ladies and gentlemen, please spare Efim Leonidovich. Party of regions, National Deputy Greenewecki. Please.
ParlaMint-UA_2013-06-05-m0.u10	The distinguished President, distinguished colleagues, held two years ago in this Hall parliamentary hearings on the status and prospects of Ukraine's economic relations with the European Union and the Customs Union, which resulted in the adoption of recommendations. [[B in m in s a l in]] The information wave, raised after the signing of the Minsk Memorandum, gave the impression that Ukraine had once again sat on a political spagat. Particularly concerned, I would like to quote Bismarck, quote: “In the diplomatic language, joining in principle is simply a polite way to refuse.” I recall when Ukraine voluntarily freed itself from nuclear weapons, the “nuclear five” countries committed themselves to refrain from political and economic pressure to subdue their own interests to Ukraine's exercise of sovereign rights. Unfortunately, we still feel the struggle for Ukraine. But it is not only the external influence that determines Ukrainian multiverseness. The parties to Euro-Asian and European integration in disputes use different arguments, including economic ones. However, it must be acknowledged that Ukraine's economic assumptions for choosing a vector of integration are equally weak. The pluses and minuses of both vectors are roughly similar: on one glass of weight, the broad investment opportunities of the European Union countries, the democratization of the public process, the possibility of access to high technologies and innovations; on the other hand, the proximity of cultures, historical communities and mentality, the possibility of continuing economic development through productive, scientific cooperation under a similar economic arrangement, access to cheaper energy carriers. That is why it is, first of all, a civil choice, and therefore a political decision. I would also like to recall that in its recommendations in 2011, the Supreme Council made it clear that the establishment of a free trade zone with the EU and the deepening of cooperation with the Customs Union States does not in itself guarantee Ukraine the acceleration of economic development. This theme has not lost its relevance today. [[B in m in s a l in]] We often complain that we are not perceived by equal partners in both Brussels and Moscow. I think that this is our own fault because the only guarantee of equal dialogue is to modernize the economy and improve the public administration system. It is clear that Ukraine prefers a vector that will create incentives for economic, political, legal reforms, creating the necessary conditions for business and entrepreneurship. But that's something we need to be honest about. [[B in m in s a l in]] Thank you for your attention. And for the rest. Honorable Predestination! I would ask for the future to ensure that discipline and ethics are respected by the people's deputies in the Hall, and to ensure the constitutional rights of the People's Deputies and their electorates when they speak from the rostrum of the Ukrainian Parliament. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-UA_2013-06-05-m0.u11	Deputies! What are you yelling at? He was speaking in public now, and you didn't hear him. Please, National Deputy Jeremeyev. Please, Volodymyr Mikhailovich Litwin.
ParlaMint-UA_2013-06-05-m0.u12	Dear Head! Dear colleagues! The loop of time is increasing over Ukraine. Keep bending and bending. Difficult, even risky, decisions must be made. What do we have in practice? In practice, there are excuses for opposition. It focuses on them so as not to do real things. In practice, the majority and opposition concentrate on interpreting events, often inspired and usually for their own benefit. The spectre of parliamentary air force spokesmen has become increasingly aggressive. It's a political society, and people already want wars. Because they do not believe in the present and do not see the future. No definition. Although European integration remains attractive, including the electoral theme. And then no one risks ignoring it, at least until 2015, the clarity about our foreign policy choices has recently become even less clear. Including the sentiments of the East and the South. There's no sober talk about Ukrainian-Russian relations and their future. Most of the time, everything is spelled, basically nothing. It’s as if we’re looking for a job, and we’re happy to grab hold of everything that’s thrown, sucked, and drooled. As a result, there is nothing on the way out. Deep tears and distress about Ukraine add to the sense of doom. Not to mention the appeal of one of the Gehtzians: "Throw away the tears of our weeping mother, Maloria." Economics and the social sphere are in a miserable state. Who works in the districts and, above all, the Marjorie MPs, knows how disgusted this political nonsense and speculation on the people has been. And not solving problems that everyone seems to know and talk about. Even more, they make the appearance of making decisions. For example, decisions were made to prohibit the closure of hospitals. We accepted, knowing there'd be nothing on the way out. In large - scale conversations, there is not enough time for the earth. For example, why have local budgets been chosen? When will the creditor’s debt of subsidies be eliminated? And on what grounds do criminal cases involving non-payment of wages or non-payment of taxes go unpunished? Why is there virtually no funding from the 2013 budget? Why is the gasification of population sites stopped? It's not just buried money, it's people's hopes. Will Savings Promises Be Fulfilled? When will the deception of humans be brought to an end? How can people form an inheritance because the law was placed in a long box by 2015? Many of these questions and the answers, it turns out, are known to all when the election campaign is in place.
ParlaMint-UA_2013-06-05-m0.u13	Let me finish. Please, please.
ParlaMint-UA_2013-06-05-m0.u14	You can't agree with the recommendations that we read once and for all in the MP's replies. Notice, fellow citizens, these are civil-law relations, they need to be decided through a court of law, including when it comes to people being stolen. Then why the state? Dear colleagues, non-fractional deputies call for an early demonstration of pre-election psychosis and employment. We recommend not to be like the actors who are more talented in makeup.
ParlaMint-UA_2013-06-05-m0.u15	Thank you, Vladimir Mikhailovich. The Fatherland faction, National Deputy Tears. It's on. Please.
ParlaMint-UA_2013-06-05-m0.u16	Please pass the word to Alexandra Kugel. Thank you.
ParlaMint-UA_2013-06-05-m0.u17	Please, Alexandra Kugel.
ParlaMint-UA_2013-06-05-m0.u18	Dear friends, we have a serious trial with you today. Today, we have the opportunity to hear a report from the Commissioner on the protection of human rights. Volodymyr Mikhailovich, you're so good at inviting everyone to work for the people, and that was an illegal appointment for you, a man who didn't go through the committee twice as a matter of service. A person who has no right to hold this office, the man you gave the Supreme Council in that position, was given the opportunity to accept an order. The oath of "in the rear passage of the Supreme Council." This man. And you're ashamed of it! Because today, Ukraine does not have a professional lawyer to defend their rights. See, in this account, is there an analysis of people’s references to the Authorized One? I can say, personally, I have 39 addresses, an open conduct of six, and one by one, after two years of first reference. This person does not have a heartache for people. This person is not in the position he is in. When the three national deputies were in Yulia Timoshenko, we personally saw all the tortures that this wise strong woman, a female politician, who was the Prime Minister of Ukraine, whom your power, your President had tortured and is today really a political prisoner of Ukraine! We turned and explained how this wise and strong woman was being tortured. And she had a conscience to go and say white -- black, having neither conscience nor shame to look people in the eye, because that's how she answers everyone. I'm sure you did, too, and your voters are addressing you on the issues that are hurting them today. Because she has never exercised her right to go and defend people against the prosecutor’s office, which today is a disgrace and a torture against people. Look at our findings in Ukraine. During that year, 1 million people were tortured by the militia. And you all get the pleasure of keeping the one sick and strong, but you can't break it, Julia Timoshenko. And so our faction today reaffirms the illegal appointment of Mrs. Lutkowski, she is not a representative of the Commissioner, and her report means nothing. I will be able to give her my hand only after she has done her job. She must ask the President to release Yulia Timoshenko, and we demand it by all the factions.
ParlaMint-UA_2013-06-05-m0.u19	Vitalia Klitschka, National MP of Motchov. Please.
ParlaMint-UA_2013-06-05-m0.u20	Dear Vladimir Vasilovich, I'd like to give the floor to my colleague Irina Heraszczenko.
ParlaMint-UA_2013-06-05-m0.u21	Surrender, please.
ParlaMint-UA_2013-06-05-m0.u22	Dear Mr. Head, dear colleagues! Just a week ago, our colleague and one of the best contemporary Ukrainian writers Maria Matios presented her exhibition "Nation" in Donetsk. And you know, for exactly an hour then she told our faction about that fantastic, wonderful, warm, beautiful, unique reception that Donetsk had for her. And now we're on behalf of Maria Vasilovna, who wanted to say it herself, but unfortunately she's sick, and on behalf of all of our factions, we just want to thank Donetska, and I'm asking everyone to give her a round of applause. [[Applause]] Because these people are actually doing a big job. Today, the people of Donbas are actually destroying stereotypes that try to impose certain politicians. About the fact that there are two stories of Ukraine, that there seem to be two visions of what happened to Ukraine. That's not true. And it's wonderful that the common people understand that. And now, with great honor, I would like to read a few words from Mary Mathios, who asked our faction to tell you, dear colleagues, the following: "So for colleagues from the Party of Regions I want to speak, at last, one pleasant news. In Ukraine there is everything like Greece: both unemployment, and the decline in production, and the mess, and many things. There are not just two things: roads and fascism." So let us join you, dear fellow workers, here we will do what politicians have to do to make sure that normal roads are made available in Ukraine. But we will not speculate on topics that do not exist in Ukraine. Because, unfortunately, because of poor politicians and politicians, a few words in Ukraine have somehow given them some frightening meaning. It's the word "nation" and the word "patriotism." In fact, these are not frightening words, they are important words for every Ukrainian, and they are no reason to lose common sense. So Mary Vasilovni Matios was told in Donetsk. By the way, they told her in Russian. And those people, those simple Dutchmen who spoke to our Russian colleague, asked them to pass on to this room, "Dear People's Deputies, please don't make us common people, some kind of mental disability. Yes, we're simple people, we speak Russian, but we understand Ukrainian perfectly, and we don't need to be beaten by language." Moreover, for 17 minutes this theater applauded Maria Vasilovna and the Ivano-Frankov Theatre, and the show goes not even in Ukrainian, it goes with a Galician dialect and, imagine, Doneck realized that. So maybe we want to go to you, dear speaker, we, all of these halls, together go to one of Mary Vasilovna's exhibitions and realize that there are no two Ukraines. There's one Ukraine, one story, and we have to glue it with you, not separate it. We are also very glad to have the first lady, Mrs. Ludmila Janukovic. And this is a great example of how true patriots of Donetsk are supposed to glue the country, not break it apart. From our faction, we thank Donetsk and thank you for your attention.
ParlaMint-UA_2013-06-05-m0.u23	So, let's thank Donetsk for the warm welcome. Let's thank you. A party of regions, the People’s Deputy of God’s Word.
ParlaMint-UA_2013-06-05-m0.u24	Good afternoon, reverend community! Now I'm going to go Russian, so I'm going to ask the speaker of the Supreme Council again at the end of the day to start implementing the Rules and removing those MPs who are violating the rules of conduct in the Hall. Dear friends, distinguished listeners, I would now like to say that the technology of the division of Ukraine continues to be extremism, homage and expression of fascism, and I am sure that the results of the elections that we received this Sunday, when out of 117 cities, areas where elections took place, 101 defeated the representatives of the Party of the Regions, just to say that people are concerned that people are against the fact that these are the Gorlopans, such as Freedom, and those with them, contrary to European practices, that they are already a danger to Ukraine. In voting for the representatives of the Party of the Regions, people voted for three main things. The first is specific cases, specially repaired gardens, new equipment in hospitals, maintained workplaces where possible, and normal, responsive, adequate managers. In particular, I would like to make an example of the Kiev area. The two deputies elected in Vishgorod and in Fastov are the deputies who were the heads of the district administrations. They showed themselves in their work, so well done in their specific work that the Kievers, the people of Kiev, supported them and voted in favour of them as members of the regional council. Vasilkov was voted in favour of the former head of the district administration and became mayor. That's the highest grade. And that means that screams, confusions and calls for violence get the exact opposite of what people do. People are looking for us who can work and be normal, responsible people, protection from lawlessness. Therefore, the respectable Freedom, the disrespectful neo-fascist, the more aggressive you will be, the more people will vote for the representatives of the Party of Regions and for those who can work and build and not destroy. And for those who respect anyone, regardless of his language, regardless of his social situation. We are very grateful to the voters who supported our representatives. We're very responsible. We'll keep working.
ParlaMint-UA_2013-06-05-m0.u25	Finish up.
ParlaMint-UA_2013-06-05-m0.u26	And we are confident that this fascination with aggression and haughtiness will soon pass. As young people, first they like to beat their faces, then they become normal dads and moms. Ukraine is wise. Thank you to our constituents.
ParlaMint-UA_2013-06-05-m0.u27	Dear National Deputies! Dear National Deputies! I'm showing you too. Listen to me, and then I'll give you a line. Have a seat. In the Rules Act, I will then say here, the Rules of Procedure Act reads: "The plenary meeting should not prevent the people's MP from speaking or perceiving the speech by shouting, applause, standing up, talking on the mobile phone, etc., from using abusive speech and obscene words and calling for illegal action." Keep going. I'm not going to remove it from the hall, you're going to vote. "The Supreme Council may, without discussion, decide to deprive the National MP of his right to participate in plenary sessions, in five plenary sessions. This decision is being made by a well-known voter, through the newspaper Voice of Ukraine. So if you ask me, I'll put it to a vote, and you'll decide, and I don't need to be blamed. So no more replicas. Don't insult each other. Let's work. Only the presentations were that the voters were waiting for us to work. That's why I'm going through. [[B in m in s a l in]] Your last name wasn't called, sit down! [[B in m in s a l in]] I won't! [[B in m in s a l in]] Oleg Jaroslavovich! Let's work! Stop insulting each other. All you've done is act like you've been in the electorate, and the voters are asking you to pass the laws they need. What else do you need? Well, what do you need? We are discussing the elimination of disagreements in the laws that have been passed. Let's take these laws so that we don't get along. Honourable National Deputies, Supreme Council of Ukraine adopted on 21 May 2013 the Act of Ukraine amending article 13 of the Ukrainian Law on the Status of War Veterans, Guaranteeing Their Social Protection (for the first-line free provision of sanatorium treatment for war invalids), registration number 1086. I cannot sign it because the drafting of the law for signature revealed editorial inaccuracies in the names of the central executive bodies associated with systemic changes to Ukraine's legislative acts in connection with administrative reform, particularly the Law on the Status of War Veterans and the Guarantee of Their Social Protection. In accordance with article 131 of the Rules, with the aim of correcting editorial irregularities, the adopted law makes a proposal to clarify the provisions of paragraph 5 of the adopted law. In particular, paragraph 5 of the adopted law should read: "War invalids are provided with travel in accordance with the Ministry of Defence of Ukraine, the Ministry of Internal Affairs of Ukraine, the Ukrainian Security Service, the central executive authorities that implement public policies in the areas of health, social protection of the population, protection of the State border and other authorities at the place of residence of the disabled person in charge or at his place of work." So I'm going to put the committee's proposal to the vote, and I'm going to sign this law. Please prepare for the vote and I'm putting this motion to a vote. Please vote. [[10:39:10]] For 319 The proposal to resolve the differences is accepted. Next, another law, the issue of the elimination of disagreements. In view of the inconsistencies found in the text of Ukraine's application to amend Ukraine's budget code in connection with the creation of revenue and assembly bodies adopted on 16 May 2013 (Registration No. 2800) in accordance with article 131 of the Supreme Council of Ukraine's Rules of Procedure, the proposal is made: to clarify the wording of paragraph 1 of the second section of the adopted law by introducing it as follows: this law takes effect on the day following its publication, in addition to paragraph 1 of paragraph 2 of the second paragraph and paragraph 5 of the first section of the Act, which takes effect on 1 July 2013; paragraphs 3 and 4 of paragraph 1, of paragraph 2 of paragraph 2 of paragraph 2 of the second paragraph and paragraph 6 of section 6 of this law, which takes effect at the same time as the entry into force of the Ukraine's Act on the amendment of the Code of Reform of Ukraine. So I'm voting on the proposal. People's deputies, please vote. [[10:41:16]] For 203 Against 103. We're holding on to two. They didn't vote - 93. The decision is not taken. Head of the Committee on Budgets, please. The factions. Region Party - 161, Fatherland - 1, Hit by Vitalia Klicka - 0, Freedom - 0, Company - 31, Postfaction - 10. The Committee, the Committee on Budgets, should provide additional information. The MPs may not have understood what points and what they agree on. Please. Ready? Please turn on Geller's microphone. The law has to be signed, and I can't, so let's be precise.
ParlaMint-UA_2013-06-05-m0.u28	Ladies and gentlemen, I can't understand why you don't support this bill. He passed the committee, was unanimously supported on the committee. There's nothing to keep you from voting for this bill. It refers to the fact that two structures are united — tax and customs. That's why I'm asking. Volodymyr Vasilovich, I ask you once again to put this bill in place and back it up. Thank you.
ParlaMint-UA_2013-06-05-m0.u29	Please sign up. One minute from the factions. I beg of you, National Deputy Tajnibok.
ParlaMint-UA_2013-06-05-m0.u30	Please pass the word to Alexia Kaidi.
ParlaMint-UA_2013-06-05-m0.u31	Pass it on, please.
ParlaMint-UA_2013-06-05-m0.u32	Thank you. Alexy Kaida, faction of the All-Ukrainian Freedom Union. Dear Vladimir Vasilovich! Deputies! Well, first of all, let's not be misleading that this bill was unanimously supported by the committees, which seems to have been unanimously supported by the Supreme Council. Clearly, we voted against this law. But the point is: in all of these amendments, in all of these reconciliations. This is all due to the fact that we're considering bills by what's called a reduced procedure, and that's why all these disagreements, those dots, those comas, the wrong words are actually the result of a reduced procedure. We call for the faction of the All-Ukrainian Freedom Union to be considered on a full-time basis. And then there will be no disagreements. Then you won't say that someone didn't understand. Everyone understands and knows why this bill is adopted by the antisocial. Therefore, the faction will not vote in favour of these amendments. Thank you.
ParlaMint-UA_2013-06-05-m0.u33	Okay. The Communist faction. Simonenko.
ParlaMint-UA_2013-06-05-m0.u34	Simonenko, the Communist faction. Respectable voters! I want to explain what is going on in Parliament. There's a clan fight for power. And given that today the focus of their activities is populism and social populism, everything is being used to demonstrate its supposed position to destabilize the situation in Ukraine. It's becoming obvious. There is no question of order, discipline, proper use of the resources we have at our disposal, of the accuracy of the allocation of resources in order to support specific social groups and social projects. Therefore, it is clear to us Communists that the representatives of one of the wings of the ruling party who are playing the opposition are doing everything today to block the work of the executive branch. Someone likes or dislikes the decisions that have been taken to reorganize it, and it needs to be financed by structures to make it work.
ParlaMint-UA_2013-06-05-m0.u35	The Vitalia Klitschka faction, the national deputy of Palamarczuk.
ParlaMint-UA_2013-06-05-m0.u36	Please pass the word to Rosenko.
ParlaMint-UA_2013-06-05-m0.u37	Please, Paul Rosenko.
ParlaMint-UA_2013-06-05-m0.u38	Paul Rosenco, Vitaly Caller's Faction. Well, the position of the impact faction on this bill and in general the idea of the creation of the Ministry of Revenue and Assembly, the so-called almond, is clear and clear. We are against creating additional corruption chains in Ukraine. The corrupt links that are called for only one are to accumulate all the costs, including social insurance, the Ukrainian Pension Fund, so that they can go through the pockets of officials. So that they don't go directly to people in the form of social assistance and pensions. And so that the corrupt actions of the officials will be placed in the pockets of these officials. So our faction is unanimous. We are against such an organ, we are against this law, and we will never support the introduction of promissory notes.
ParlaMint-UA_2013-06-05-m0.u39	Party of regions, National Deputy Rudzkowski.
ParlaMint-UA_2013-06-05-m0.u40	Dear National Deputies! I am addressing those national deputies who were first elected to the Supreme Council. Dear colleagues! First, if we've already passed the law and after reading the technical regulations, we see that there are differences in the law, we need to correct these amendments in order for the law to actually work and fit the whole logic. This is the first time. It's different. The reduced procedure is applied only in the first reading. The second reading examines the law and all the amendments, let’s say so. And all the amendments are discussed. We passed that law. And there is a great need for this law to work. I don't like that structure. But the law is also passed in order for it to work more effectively for us, and now we need to correct this technical error that is not to blame.
ParlaMint-UA_2013-06-05-m0.u41	The Fatherland faction, National Deputy Tarasyuk. Blacksmith, please.
ParlaMint-UA_2013-06-05-m0.u42	Dear Vladimir Vasilovich, dear friends! The problem is, right now, no one in the room can understand what we're looking at. From what I understand, Vladimir Vasilovich, you said that we should make changes to the Budget Code. And the head of the budget committee said that we had considered the Law on the Financing of the Ministry on the Committee of Taxes and Revenues and the Congregations. So the bill was considered, and almost half of the deputies voted against by all of the opposition. And we didn't look at the changes to the Budget Code at all. So you have to put them in the daytime order, and you have to look at them, and so on. Moreover, we warned that this law, which we then passed, violates both the Customs Code and the Budget Code. And now that's really what the experts told us, they said, "Now fix it." But you had to change the budget code first and then adopt the law. In general, it was wiser than anything else to not break the Budget Code in another part, but to make this decision by the President at the end of last year or to wait.
ParlaMint-UA_2013-06-05-m0.u43	Ladies and gentlemen, everyone has spoken. I want to sum it up. The mistakes of the Supreme Council, when the law is passed, should be corrected. But I made suggestions, you didn't support them. Under the law, I read to you, "If the Supreme Council rejects the proposals of the Supreme Council of Ukraine, he is obliged to sign the text of the law on the same day, previously signed to him." And I'm going to comply with the law that we passed and we're going to keep working. Announcement. It is announced that the interim commission of the Supreme Council of Ukraine has been suspended on the issue of investigating the facts of reviewing the will of the Ukrainian people in the 2012 parliamentary elections, since the commission was to report on the work no later than a month from the date of its adoption, i.e. on 21 April of this year. And according to the provisions of part eight of article 87 and part six, paragraph 2, of the Supreme Council’s 88 Rules of Procedure in the event of failure by the interim commission of inquiry of the report of the Supreme Council of Ukraine to the Supreme Council of Ukraine, the deadline for granting such a commission shall be deemed to be suspended from the day following the end of the deadline for submission of the interim commission of inquiry. At the same time, I note that on May 21, 2013, the commission ended. And the committee gave such a letter. Please sign up for a minute from the factions. Yes, the Ukraine Company, Simonenko.
ParlaMint-UA_2013-06-05-m0.u44	Simonenko, the Communist faction. Dear colleagues, the Communist faction supports the initiative of the Head of the Supreme Council to order the work of temporary special commissions. I am convinced that those who offered to organize the work and study the problem behind this commission have shown for the most part that they have not tried to put order in the state at all. And all their statements about what happened and how the elections went on are also loud, populist statements and nothing else. So I'm addressing you, honourable voters, look carefully who and what 20 years have I told you and what they've been doing over the past 20 years. And they practically destroyed democracy, the principles of democracy in Ukraine, because today they forbid the Ukrainian people to make their own choices. And when there was an opportunity for the Supreme Council to create a commission and study, they did everything they could to make sure that the commission didn't work. That's why I think your actions are correct, Volodymyr Vasilovich.
ParlaMint-UA_2013-06-05-m0.u45	Party of regions, Jaroslav Suhi, please.
ParlaMint-UA_2013-06-05-m0.u46	Dear colleagues, Reverend Vladimir Vasilovich, have long understood, and the national deputies of Ukraine, who work here not the first year, have found out. The efficiency of the temporary, special, all-time commission is zero, efficiency is zero. Especially if such a commission is created not to establish the truth, not to work together with the collective mind to draw conclusions, but for the sake of the pyar, to justify their professional inability to justify their failures before the electorate, to create an agitmail for their own, attracting attention, further reduces the authors and such commissions, and the work of the Supreme Council of Ukraine. Volodymyr Vasilovich, the decision is made in accordance with the law, which is the so-called Act of Ukraine on Rules. The decision is correct, it is only true, and we must continue to do so. We already have a lot of such beef committees, and they all need to be stopped. Thank you.
ParlaMint-UA_2013-06-05-m0.u47	Freedom Union, National Deputy Leonov.
ParlaMint-UA_2013-06-05-m0.u48	Please pass the word to Igor Schweitz.
ParlaMint-UA_2013-06-05-m0.u49	Please, National Deputy of Schweik.
ParlaMint-UA_2013-06-05-m0.u50	Igor Schwaika, faction of the All-Ukrainian Freedom Union, Kharkishte. Society, I'd like to call the names of the people who made the work of this commission impossible. These are the national deputies of Ephraim and Simonenko. I would like to refer to the names of those who have not systematically fulfilled their obligations under the Constitution, the Law on the Law and the Law on the Status of the People’s Deputy. These are national deputies from the Koleshnenko, Lukyanov, Melnichenko, Oliynik, Paraskov, Spinov and the Communist MP Matthew. These are the people who, in spite of their well - organized work on the part of the head and the deputy commission, never showed up, who did not inform about the reasons, and in their personal conversations they made it clear that this was a separate direction for the leadership of the faction. Therefore, the responsibility for the commission’s inactivity rests with the Communist Party of the Regions.
ParlaMint-UA_2013-06-05-m0.u51	Please, the Motherland Union, National Deputy Brichenko.
ParlaMint-UA_2013-06-05-m0.u52	Please give the word to Avakov Arsen Borisovich.
ParlaMint-UA_2013-06-05-m0.u53	Pass it on, please.
ParlaMint-UA_2013-06-05-m0.u54	Dear Sir, we demand the release of the TSC report, which was submitted on time to the Supreme Council registration sector and was not accepted. Next. I asked you in writing in time to give my word for the release of the TSC report. We have a duty to the Ukrainian people, to the Ukrainian Parliament, and to report on the outcome of our work. As for consciously ignoring the Party of Regions and the Communists of Commission meetings, I want to say why they ignored it. Because they feared, feared the facts that were obvious to everyone, and fear, as we know, was said by the well-known leader of Mr. Azarov's Party of Regions, "strong feelings." So today the report is published in the media. And if this is the Ukrainian Parliament, we need to publish it in this room and on the site of the Supreme Council, we demand it.
ParlaMint-UA_2013-06-05-m0.u55	It's the Vitalia Cliche faction, Rosenko.
ParlaMint-UA_2013-06-05-m0.u56	Paul Rosenco, Vitaly Caller's Faction. Dear colleagues, what's going on here today in the session room? It is clear to society as a whole that in 2015 today's President will not win an honest and open election, under any circumstances. He's the only one who has the opportunity, to come back, to repeat his path to power through mass falsifications during the electoral process. And these technologies, just like they were in previous parliamentary elections, are going to travel like this every day today. Vasilkov, Alchevsk, Yalta are the latest examples of the rolling of dirty illegal, anti-national and anti-democratic technologies. So we demand that, in each case, including the previous elections, the results of the commission be clearly published. Only after that can we say that the work of this commission has been completed.
ParlaMint-UA_2013-06-05-m0.u57	Dear national deputies, I made an announcement and informed the national deputies. There is another announcement, and there is another announcement. To implement article 147 of article 9 of the Supreme Council of Ukraine’s Rules of Procedure, I inform you that the Supreme Council of Ukraine has reached the conclusion of the Constitutional Court of Ukraine of 21 May 2013 in the case of the Supreme Council of Ukraine on the compatibility of the bill amending article 98 of the Constitution of Ukraine with the requirements of articles 157 and 158 of the Basic Law of Ukraine. That's why I'm asking the people's deputies to get to know each other. If any questions arise on the interim commission, we will be at the Conciliation Council, at the faction leaders’ meeting. We're going in order of the day session. We're talking about ratification. Sit down, I'll give it to you later. The draft Law (No. 0016) on the ratification of the Credit Agreement (Project "Finishing the Construction of Metropolis in Dnipropetrovsk") between Ukraine and the European Bank for Reconstruction and Development is under consideration. How will we view it? Is it full? I'm betting on a reduced procedure. Please vote. [[11:00:17]] For-162 Against 95, held – 11, not a vote – 130. Decision taken. I'm asking Deputy Finance Minister Sergey Alexanderovich Rybak. Please, two minutes.
ParlaMint-UA_2013-06-05-m0.u58	Dear Vladimir Vasilovich! Dear National Deputies! Your opinion is proposed by the Ukrainian Law on the Ratification of the Credit Agreement between Ukraine and the European Bank for Reconstruction and Development (to complete the construction of the metropolis in Dnipropetrovsk). Under this agreement, Ukraine is lending 152 million euros to complete the construction of the metropolis. The ECB’s loan is made in euro at the floating Euribor interest rate plus one percent of the annual commission and the commitment: a one - time payment to the Commission of one percent of the amount of the loan. I would like to stress further that Euribor was 0.299 thousand percent behind the 3rd June rate. So this is a very lucrative and very acceptable rate for foreign loans. Ukraine's repayment will be made by 22 years and half, starting on December 2, 2016 and ending on June 2, 2027. The loan costs will be transferred to the city budget of Dnipropetrovska in the form of subsidies from the state budget to improve the construction of the metropolis. The cost of servicing the loan will be reimbursed to the State by the City Council of Dnipropetrov. It should be pointed out that only under this project will the loan also provide for the participation of 152 million euros from the European Investment Bank. In view of what has been said, please support the ratification of the credit agreement. And this agreement, I want to stress, will create favourable conditions for the development of the transport structure of Dnipropetrovska and will have positive socio-economic consequences. Thank you for your attention.
ParlaMint-UA_2013-06-05-m0.u59	Please sit down. The report is the deputy head of the committee, Miroshnichenko Yuri Romanovich.
ParlaMint-UA_2013-06-05-m0.u60	Thank you, Vladimir Vasilovich. Dear voters, dear colleagues! The Committee on Foreign Affairs considered a draft Ukrainian law on the ratification of the credit agreement before completion of the construction of the metropolis in Dnipropetrovsk between Ukraine and the European Bank for Reconstruction and Development, registration number 0016 from 27.03.2013. The main objective of the agreement is to complete the construction of the metropolis in Dnipropetrovsk and create favourable conditions for the development of the city's transport infrastructure, which will have positive socio-economic consequences. The main scientific and expert office of the Supreme Council of Ukraine in its conclusion, at the signature of the Head of the Board of Directors, supports the ratification of the credit agreement. The Committee of the Supreme Council of Ukraine on Budget Issues, on the basis of its consideration of the bill, decided that the adoption of the law would not result in a change in the state budget of Ukraine in the current year, since the corresponding funds are included in the Ukrainian Law on the State Budget for Ukraine for 2013. So please support the Committee's decision in foreign matters and ratify the agreement. Thank you for your attention.
ParlaMint-UA_2013-06-05-m0.u61	People's deputies would like to sign up for the factions. National MP of the Yankee Freedom Union, please.
ParlaMint-UA_2013-06-05-m0.u62	Please pass the word to Andrew Mishchenko.
ParlaMint-UA_2013-06-05-m0.u63	Please give it to Andrey Mishchenk.
ParlaMint-UA_2013-06-05-m0.u64	Andrew Mishchenko, All-Ukrainian Freedom Union, Dnipropetrovština. The All-Ukrainian Union and the faction will support the ratification of this agreement, because the metropolis is an extremely large city of Dnipropetrovsk. Since 1982, it has not actually worked, and six stations have not been connected. But there is a question to the deputy minister: why is there no treasure, who will use it, how will the loan be repaid, on whose shoulders will the loan be placed? There's another point: why do other city councils take loans themselves and the Supreme Council has to approve the ratification of this loan? Thank you.
ParlaMint-UA_2013-06-05-m0.u65	Let's give the floor to the Deputy Minister, and now to the Fatherland faction, Yemen.
ParlaMint-UA_2013-06-05-m0.u66	Jemetz Leonid, the “Batakishtina ” faction, the city of Kyiv, Pechersky, Shevchenkovsky, and the region of Solomon. Please give the floor to a colleague named John Kirilenko, who is well - known for the problems of Dnipropetrovsky, the city.
ParlaMint-UA_2013-06-05-m0.u67	Ivan Kirilenko, please.
ParlaMint-UA_2013-06-05-m0.u68	Dear Volodymyr Vasilovich, dear colleagues! Ivan Kirilenko, Dniproperty, Fatherland. Our faction will definitely support the ratification of this agreement and we can honestly say that this is an extremely beneficial loan from the European Bank for Reconstruction and Development. The negotiations took a very long time, Europe’s partners took a very careful look both at this object and at the Ukrainian side, and they decided to give it an extremely convenient one. This highly advantageous loan is an example for other cities and other regions of Ukraine. And once again, the object in Dnipropetrovsk was built back in the '90s, the funding stopped in the late '90s and there was no funding for about 15 years. The negotiations were difficult, difficult, and should have been welcomed by the Dniproperty authorities for what had been resolved, for all the political forces had united their efforts, supported the city council, district council, and the issue had thus been resolved at the local level. Our faction has closely tracked these processes, supported them, and we will now support the vote in this ratification hall. Thank you.
ParlaMint-UA_2013-06-05-m0.u69	Please, Party of Regions, National Deputy Koleznichenko.
ParlaMint-UA_2013-06-05-m0.u70	I ask you to give the word to Jaroslav Sukh.
ParlaMint-UA_2013-06-05-m0.u71	They passed it on to Yaroslav Sukh.
ParlaMint-UA_2013-06-05-m0.u72	Dear colleagues, why I went to the rostrum. If it wasn't for forced existence, I would point out once again, that there was budgetary injustice, especially with regard to donor regions, there would be no need to take credit. During those years of subway construction in Dnipropetrovsk, and in those 10 years of city construction in Zaporozhye, only these two cities were handed over. More money under the so-called "extra charge" from the budget, which would have been enough on the subway, which would have been enough for 20 of these bridges. Since 2010, one of the Chinese once cried here yesterday, you guys, like Gala from the anecdote, the boulders, the five subway stations, the new Darnica station, the railway station is finished, all the bridges are long-winded, the trails are finished. Someone here used to scream that they weren't there and that's not how they're building, they're repairing the road to Gruszewski. Look out, it's a beautiful road! The road from Zitomir to Chop! As we didn't tell you what beautiful things to preach: some regions earn more than they lose, others regions do the opposite. So to support this draft decision you owe it to everyone, because it's for donor regions!
ParlaMint-UA_2013-06-05-m0.u73	Thank you. Communist faction, one minute, Simonenko, please.
ParlaMint-UA_2013-06-05-m0.u74	Dear colleagues, the Company faction supports this project. But I would like to draw your attention to the fact that whatever they're comfortable with, the loans have to be returned and paid interest on loans. And that means that we're going to be looking for more money to get these loans back. But where can we take money from us in Ukraine? Notice, the Company's faction has repeatedly required our government's financial discipline to implement the government's budget. So we have Western areas, and I want our voters in the western areas of Ukraine to understand what I'm talking about. There are laws of Ukraine, there is a state policy. Why, though, are those who fought on Hitler’s side financed and received additional pensions in supplementary areas that receive additional income? And here I want us to make order today, first of all, in our own country and not finance these areas, and therefore the traitors who fought on Hitler's side against the Soviet people and the Soviet Ukraine. And this money.
ParlaMint-UA_2013-06-05-m0.u75	One minute, National Deputy Laszko. And we'll make decisions.
ParlaMint-UA_2013-06-05-m0.u76	Oleg Lazko, Radical Party. I'm going to support the ratification of this agreement, because it's going to be able to raise the credit for the building, to complete the construction of the metropolis in Dnipropetrovsk. A beautiful city that deserves to have Dnipro there. Metro is one of the most comfortable modes of transport. But at the same time, I'm paying attention to the government and the problem of building a subway in Kiev. A huge problem that can't be solved. Subway financing has been halted for Troastina, the largest housing facility in the world. The debt owed to subway workers in the past year has not been paid off. No funds allocated for the construction of the subway for the Trinity this year. The work on the Trinity is stalled this year. Detained construction of the Teremka subway. I think that these are the issues that the government has to decide, because hundreds of thousands of people from Trinity in the morning and in the evening can't get to work because of the extraordinary workload. And that's why I'm calling on the government to allocate at least two billion dollars this year to build a subway for Troy, for Teremka. Thank you.
ParlaMint-UA_2013-06-05-m0.u77	Let's move on, Your Honor, to making a decision. [[B in m in s a l in]] There hasn't been a vote yet, so there's a line. Read the Rules! I am voting on the draft Law (Registration No. 0016) on the ratification of the Credit Agreement (Project "Finishing the Construction of Metropolis in Dnipropetrovsk") between Ukraine and the European Bank for Reconstruction and Development for adoption as a basis and as a whole. People's deputies, please vote. [[11:12:14]] For the 320. Against - 0, held - 0 did not vote - 75. Decision taken. The factions, please. Let's have a look. Next. [[B in m in s a l in]] Predict an article of the Rules, which one? Kaida, dictate. Huh? Well, then, you say, go to the Rules, then don't. A bill (number 0018) on the ratification of the Treaty between Ukraine and the United Arab Emirates on the extradition of offenders is under consideration. Let us consider how? Please vote, summary procedure. [[11:13:31]] For-152. Against 82, held – 9, not voted – 153. Decision taken. The factions. Reported the first deputy minister of justice, Ivan Ivanovna Jemelyanov. Please.
ParlaMint-UA_2013-06-05-m0.u78	Thank you. Dear Vladimir Vasilovich! Honorable National Deputies of Ukraine! You have before you the draft Law on the Ratification of the Treaty between Ukraine and the United Arab Emirates on the Extradition of Offenders. The ratification of this Treaty will allow for the creation of legal grounds for cooperation between the competent authorities of the two contracting States regarding the extradition of persons evading criminal liability while hiding in the territory of another contracting party. This Agreement sets out clearly the binding and optional grounds that allow each party to refuse the extradition of wrongdoers. In particular, compulsory reasons for refusing to issue offenders are included if they are citizens of the requested contracting party. If the person in question is persecuted in connection with his or her political beliefs or because of his or her nationality or race, or because of his or her religious beliefs. If the crime in connection with which extradition is sought is a crime against military service under the law of the requested party. At the same time, it has been determined that, according to the request, if, according to the legislation of any party whose extradition person is asked, is released from criminal persecution or sentence in connection with the conclusion of the statute of limitations or other legal basis. The treaty clearly defines the competent authorities that are on each of the contractual sides. For Ukraine, this is the Attorney General's Office for the enforcement of requests from law enforcement authorities and the Ministry of Justice for the execution of requests from the courts. The conditions under which a person may be temporarily detained for whom a request has been made are clearly defined. In this regard, the issue of counting is settled, as a result of the temporary delay in the issuance of the sentence.
ParlaMint-UA_2013-06-05-m0.u79	Finish up.
ParlaMint-UA_2013-06-05-m0.u80	Thank you. Counting upon execution of the sentence. Please support the ratification of this treaty as a whole. He will create the legal basis for the contractual parties to request the issue of offenders accused of committing a crime. Thank you.
ParlaMint-UA_2013-06-05-m0.u81	Have a seat. Please report, Deputy Chairman of the Committee Yuri Romanovich Miroshnichenko. Please.
ParlaMint-UA_2013-06-05-m0.u82	Thank you, Vladimir Vasilovich. Honorary voters, honourable colleagues, the Committee on Foreign Affairs considered the draft Ukrainian Law on the Ratification of the Treaty between Ukraine and the Arab, United Arab Emirates on the Extradition of Offenders (registration No. 0018). And I approved recommending to the Supreme Council of Ukraine the adoption of it as a whole as a law. The purpose of the bill is to implement the internal procedures necessary to establish the validity of the contract signed on 26 November 2012 in Abu Dhabi. The main objective of the treaty is to create the legal basis for joint action by the extradition of persons who evade criminal responsibility by hiding in the territory of the other party to the treaty. The parties to the treaty are obliged to issue to one another persons who are in their territories and convicted or accused of committing crimes to bring them to criminal liability or to sentence them. In accordance with the Explanatory Note signed by the Minister of Justice of Ukraine, the adoption of this bill and the implementation of the treaty will not require additional costs from the State budget of Ukraine. The main scientific and expert office of the Supreme Council of Ukraine has no objection to the ratification of this document. So please support the Committee's decision in foreign matters and ratify the agreement. Thank you for your attention.
ParlaMint-UA_2013-06-05-m0.u83	People's deputies please sign up for factions: 2 for, 2 against, please. Party of regions, National Deputy Fabricant.
ParlaMint-UA_2013-06-05-m0.u84	I ask you to pass the word to Mikhail Vasilevich Chechtev.
ParlaMint-UA_2013-06-05-m0.u85	Please, Chechetov.
ParlaMint-UA_2013-06-05-m0.u86	Dear Vladimir Vasilevich, distinguished members of the people! On 26 November 2012, the Treaty between Ukraine and the United Arab Emirates on Extradition of Offenders was signed in Abu Dhabi. In accordance with paragraphs “b” and “e” of section 2 of article 9 of the Law on International Treaties, the treaty is subject to ratification as it relates to the rights, freedoms and obligations of persons and citizens, since its ratification is provided for in article 22 of the Treaty. The purpose of the treaty is to create legal conditions for the use of joint actions to extradite persons who are evading criminal responsibility and who are in the territory of another country. The faction of the Party of the Regions proposes to support the ratification of the instrument. I appeal to those who create a noise curtain, the same thing, to vote and to deal with a particular matter, not with idleness in Parliament. Your work is expensive for the people of Ukraine. Thank you.
ParlaMint-UA_2013-06-05-m0.u87	The Fatherland faction, National Deputy Tomenko.
ParlaMint-UA_2013-06-05-m0.u88	Dear colleagues, of course, our faction will support the ratification of the agreement, since it is both about fulfilling our obligations and about another feature. You know that the legal system and, as it were, the system of punishment, taking into account the history, tradition, and religion of the United Arab Emirates, is more severe in relation to our system. And so when such situations arise, of course, we would have to insure our citizens in extreme situations. But in favour of ratifying this document, I would like to highlight one serious problem. And I don't know if the Ministry of Foreign Affairs is here. It would have had to, I think, logically, Volodymyr Vasilovich, be present, because they have also been through these agreements, and they will also be provided with their implementation. Today, there has been a catastrophic situation. My analysis, the analysis of my colleagues in Fatherland shows that such shameful and meager financing of our embassies, consulates and representations has probably not been possible in recent years. Whether there was a crisis or not, there was no such funding. How our employees in embassies or consulates can protect the rights of our citizens if they receive income and not always on time. So I think we need to listen to the foreign minister in part on Friday, and I know that he's also looking after funding, that's more of a matter for the President and the Prime Minister to be financed. Because today, especially in the peak of the rest season, where, God forbid, one of our citizens falls into some kind of history, legal aid, consular assistance, legal aid. Who will give it if there is no money for basic maintenance? That is why we need to ensure that our representation abroad is fully funded so that our diplomats actively protect Ukrainian citizens who are abroad.
ParlaMint-UA_2013-06-05-m0.u89	Ladies and gentlemen, I would like to address you on the subject of the matter under consideration. I give the word "Freedom" to the People's Deputy Mirny.
ParlaMint-UA_2013-06-05-m0.u90	Please pass the word to Alexander Oxenthyovich Shevchenko.
ParlaMint-UA_2013-06-05-m0.u91	Please, National Deputy Chevchenko.
ParlaMint-UA_2013-06-05-m0.u92	The All-Ukrainian Freedom Union is in favour of ratifying this treaty. At the same time, I would like to draw the attention of honourable deputies to this, the draft law on the ratification of the treaty between Ukraine and the United Arab Emirates in article 3, paragraph 3 (A) states that political crimes are not considered to be a violation of the head of state, head of government, members of the Supreme Council or members of their families. I'd like to know what "attack on" means. Is it for life, or is it for health, or is it for honor, or is it for dignity, and so on? So the Ministry of Justice gives us this contract to know that it's ready to define what crime is criminal, political? And apparently to separate criminal crimes from political crimes. So I think we should just welcome this and hope that the Ministry of Justice will be able to develop these concepts and a categorical apparatus as a whole in the future. So I call on all deputies to support the ratification of this treaty. Thank you for your attention.
ParlaMint-UA_2013-06-05-m0.u93	The Communist faction, the People's Deputy of Spirin.
ParlaMint-UA_2013-06-05-m0.u94	Thank you. The Communist Party supports the bill. But there are some inserts. If a person commits an illegal act, he leaves abroad and a mental illness report appears. In such cases, how does our legislation return a person to his homeland? Under the laws of any country, a person with a mental illness must receive compulsory treatment and then return to that country. How are such problems taken into account in such cases? It's a problem that's quite common today, and we're facing it, psychiatrists. That is why I am asking that this issue be taken into account in this bill. Thank you.
ParlaMint-UA_2013-06-05-m0.u95	Ladies and gentlemen, all those desiring to discuss the matter have made a statement. That's why. And there are no answers to the rules and questions. I'll put it to a vote. People's deputies, please prepare for the vote. I am voting on the draft Law (No. 0018) on the ratification of the Treaty between Ukraine and the United Arab Emirates on the issuance of offenders for adoption as a whole. Please vote. [[11:26:34]] For 323 Against - 0, held - 0, did not vote - 73. Decision taken. The factions. The draft Law (number 0017) on the ratification of the Agreement between the Cabinet of Ministers of Ukraine and the Government of the Russian Federation on readmission is under consideration. How do we view it? Please vote in favour of the summary procedure. [[11:27:15.]] For 165 Against 83, held – 9, not voting – 137. Decision taken. Deputy Interior Minister Victor Ivanovich Ratushnjak, please.
ParlaMint-UA_2013-06-05-m0.u96	Dear Vladimir Vasilovich! Dear National Deputies! The draft Law on Ratification of the Agreement between the Cabinet of Ministers of Ukraine and the Government of the Russian Federation on readmission was developed by the State Migration Service in accordance with the requirements of the Ukrainian Law on International Contracts. The project proposes to ratify the Agreement between the Cabinet of Ministers of Ukraine and the Government of the Russian Federation on Readmission, signed in Moscow on October 22, 2012. The agreement provides for the introduction by the parties of the principles and rules governing the transfer, reception and return of persons in their territory, in violation of the procedure of entry, departure and residence of foreign citizens and stateless persons. This will help to counter illegal migration. The implementation of the provisions of the agreement will not require additional financial costs from the State budget of Ukraine and will be carried out within the appropriate budgetary allocations provided for the State Migration Service, as well as expenditures for the state and foreign services of Ukraine. Please be supportive. Thank you for your attention.
ParlaMint-UA_2013-06-05-m0.u97	Have a seat. Thank you. The report is the deputy chairman of the committee, Yuri Romanovich Miroshnichenko. Please.
ParlaMint-UA_2013-06-05-m0.u98	Dear voters! Dear colleagues! The Committee on Foreign Affairs considered the draft Ukrainian Law on Ratification of the Agreement between the Cabinet of Ministers of Ukraine and the Government of the Russian Federation on Readmission (Registration No. 0017) and approved the recommendation of the Supreme Council of Ukraine to ratify the agreement. The adoption of the act will serve practical purposes of combating illegal migration, as well as allowing the minimization of the negative effects arising from illegal migration, strengthening the humanitarian component of national security, enhancing the effectiveness of the joint fight against illegal migration by improving the legal regulation of this activity, and saving the budget allocated to measures aimed at the forced expulsion of aliens. According to an explanatory note signed by the Minister of Interior of Ukraine, the implementation of the provisions of the agreement will not require additional material and other costs from the State budget of Ukraine. The Committee on Budgetary Questions also agrees with this conclusion. The main scientific and expert administration of the Supreme Council of Ukraine, in its conclusion, noted that the agreement could be ratified. The Committee on Human Rights, National Minorities and International Relations supported the need for approval by the Supreme Council of this Agreement. The Committee on Law Enforcement also proposes to ratify this agreement. So please support the Committee's decision on foreign matters and support the ratification of the bill. Thank you for your attention.
ParlaMint-UA_2013-06-05-m0.u99	Do you want to talk about it? You don't? I can't see! Please sign up from factions for the performance. Please, Freedom Union, national deputy Zelik.
ParlaMint-UA_2013-06-05-m0.u100	Please pass the word to Shevchenk Alexander Vasilovich.
ParlaMint-UA_2013-06-05-m0.u101	Please, Chewchenko.
ParlaMint-UA_2013-06-05-m0.u102	Shevchenko, the All-Ukrainian Freedom Union. Freedom in general advocates the ratification of this agreement between the Cabinet of Ministers of Ukraine and the Government of the Russian Federation. But the point is that this agreement provides, particularly in the Final Positions, for "in the case of differences in the interpretation of contracts, the parties use the Russian text." I don't understand why this sentence is written, because according to international law, usually both in Ukrainian and in Russian, the texts are identical. Why the Russian text, the Russian text, has been given the same advantage, is not understandable to us. Therefore, the All-Ukrainian Union of Freedom insists that this sentence be put to the vote and removed from this agreement. In such a case, the All-Ukrainian Freedom Union will generally vote in favour of the treaty in favour of ratifying such an agreement. And to remove the last sentence that differences, if any, are used in Russian. Why not Ukrainian? So we ask you to put to the vote just about removing the last sentence from the text of the agreement. Thank you for your attention.
ParlaMint-UA_2013-06-05-m0.u103	The faction of the Company of Ukraine, Gordijenko, please. Kilincarov.
ParlaMint-UA_2013-06-05-m0.u104	Gordijenko, faction of the Ukrainian Company. Please give my word to my colleague Kilinkarov.
ParlaMint-UA_2013-06-05-m0.u105	Kilincarov, on.
ParlaMint-UA_2013-06-05-m0.u106	Thank you. The Communist faction would support this readmission bill, on the basis that we had ratified agreements with the European Union in due course, adopted the Readmission Act, which, by the way, led to a lively discussion. Even attempts were made by those who were yelling today to denounce the bill and this treaty with the European Union because we did not have a readmission law on the part of the Russian Federation. Therefore, if we do not ratify this treaty, we may face a situation in which illegal migrants will enter Ukraine without further deportation to the countries from which they have entered our territory. Therefore, the Communist faction will support this draft Act and I ask all factions to vote and support. Thank you.
ParlaMint-UA_2013-06-05-m0.u107	Hit Vitalia Calla, national deputy sold.
ParlaMint-UA_2013-06-05-m0.u108	Please pass the word to Chumaku Victor Vasilovich.
ParlaMint-UA_2013-06-05-m0.u109	Please, Victor Vasilovich Chumak.
ParlaMint-UA_2013-06-05-m0.u110	Victor Chumak, 214th District, Kiev City, Dniprovsky district, Vitaly Klicka political party. Dear colleagues, Mr. Volodymira Vasilovich, I propose to support this agreement because, in large accounts, readmission agreements are a sufficient mechanism to counter illegal immigration worldwide, especially since we have more than 30 countries today, including the European Union. After the adoption of such an agreement with the European Union, I want to say that then illegal immigration through Ukraine has been reduced almost twice. I mean, this deal has been in operation for more than 10 years, and so many experts have put their hands on it. It is well written today. And I propose, and the strike faction will propose to support this agreement in the vote. Thank you.
ParlaMint-UA_2013-06-05-m0.u111	Party of regions, national deputy of Žuravsky.
ParlaMint-UA_2013-06-05-m0.u112	Please give the floor to the honourable MP Markov.
ParlaMint-UA_2013-06-05-m0.u113	Your Honor, Markov, please.
ParlaMint-UA_2013-06-05-m0.u114	Good afternoon, Vladimir Vasilevich, good afternoon, distinguished colleagues! Igor Markov, Odessa. The draft law proposes to ratify the Agreement between the Cabinet of Ministers of Ukraine and the Government of the Russian Federation on readmission. This agreement was signed on 22 October 2012 in Moscow City, which will enter into force 30 days from the date of receipt by diplomatic channels of the last written notification of the performance by the Contracting Parties of the domestic procedures necessary for its entry into force. [[B in m in s a l in]] Practically, the aim of the draft law is that if an agreement is ratified at the legislative level, the implementation of the agreement will be enshrined in order to establish procedures for the admission and transfer of persons residing in the territories of the treaty countries illegally. The said international treaty, on the basis of reciprocity, establishes quick and effective procedures for the identification, safe and orderly return of persons who do not comply with the rules of entry, departure and stay in the territory of the treaty countries. The purpose of the instrument is to ratify the agreement by enacting the principles and rules agreed upon by the treaty parties that determine the procedure for the transfer and admission of persons arriving in the territory of the treaty parties, in violation of established legislation on the entry, departure and residence of foreign nationals and stateless persons, will also serve as practical objectives for combating illegal immigration to minimize the negative consequences of irregular migration and to strengthen the humanitarian component of national security. Dear colleagues! This law formalizes and significantly simplifies actions aimed at curbing illegal migration in the territory of the treaty parties. This law does not violate the principles of friendship and cooperation, which are the basis for the relationship between Ukraine and the Russian Federation. Thank you. I beg your pardon.
ParlaMint-UA_2013-06-05-m0.u115	All those desiring according to the Rules spoke. Hennadi Hennadiovich says to vote. That's why I will be. I'll put it to a vote. And after the vote on motive. What? No one has ever spoken since the Fatherland faction? Please, National Deputy Chevchenko. Wait a minute.
ParlaMint-UA_2013-06-05-m0.u116	Thank you, Vladimir Vasilovich. I'd just like to record the position of our faction. We will vote in favour of ratifying this agreement for three reasons. First of all, we really believe that this is a step towards combating illegal migration. We now have a strange situation where, on the one hand, we have Russian security forces who can steal Russian opposition Entertainment and transport it across the border in Kiev. On the other hand, we cannot remove people from Ukraine who have illegally crossed the border from Russia. The other one. We think it's a step towards a visa-free regime with the European Union, and our faction consistently supports all the initiatives that bring us closer to a visa-free regime. And the third. We think it's a step towards arranging our relationship with the Russian Federation. Everyone knows that a good neighborhood begins with a clear line between two land areas. So we will consistently support the settlement of all legally complex relations with our strategic partner, the Russian Federation. We'll vote yes.
ParlaMint-UA_2013-06-05-m0.u117	Deputies! National deputy Shevchenko made an amendment. Turn on the microphone of the people's deputy Shevchenk. Make your proposal.
ParlaMint-UA_2013-06-05-m0.u118	We propose to delete the last sentence, namely: "In the case of differences in the interpretation of the Agreement, the party uses the text in Russian. We don't know what's in that Russian text. There may be a very different meaning. Why should we use the Russian text? Yes, they must be identical. So obviously we should use the English text, Russia is the Russian text. They must be identical. That's why we're proposing to delete that last sentence.
ParlaMint-UA_2013-06-05-m0.u119	Please, Miroshnichenko from the committee. Did you hear the amendment?
ParlaMint-UA_2013-06-05-m0.u120	Thank you, Vladimir Vasilovich. But if you delete the last sentence, the question arises. What if the situation does arise, though, when there is a difference of interpretation? In what way should the relevant foreign political authorities responsible for the implementation of this covenant then be guided? I don't think we should support this amendment. Because we're creating a situation of legal vacuum. Thank you.
ParlaMint-UA_2013-06-05-m0.u121	Deputies! Deputies! In a contract, we have no right to make changes in a contract that is signed. We can make our laws. Please, Zuravsky. Please, Žuravsky, one minute.
ParlaMint-UA_2013-06-05-m0.u122	Dear colleagues! We cannot make any changes to the text of the treaty. We can either ratify or not ratify. That's it. So I urge my colleagues to vote in favour of this text of the agreement, to ratify this agreement. Thank you.
ParlaMint-UA_2013-06-05-m0.u123	Ladies and gentlemen! Here, everyone says, put it to the vote. That's why we can't make a deal, so I'm putting it to a vote. I am voting on the draft Law (0017) on the ratification of the Agreement between the Cabinet of Ministers of Ukraine and the Government of the Russian Federation on readmission for adoption as a whole. Please vote. Identify yourself. [[11:42:22]] For 284 Against – 1, held – 38, not voted – 68. Decision taken. The factions. The draft Law on Ratification of the Agreement between the Cabinet of Ministers of Ukraine and the Government of the Kingdom of Norway on Cooperation in Nuclear and Radiological Security is being considered, the removal from the operation of the Chernobyl nuclear power plant and the conversion of the "Hidden" facility into an environmentally safe system. How do we view it? I'll bet the vote on a reduced procedure to consider ratification. [[11:43:22]] For a hundred and Against 75, held – 12, not voted – 150. Decision taken. He'll report. The factions. Reported by Susko Alexander Vasilovich, deputy minister of ecology and natural resources. Please.
ParlaMint-UA_2013-06-05-m0.u124	Dear Mr. Head, distinguished national MPs! A bill on the ratification of the Agreement between the Cabinet of Ministers of Ukraine and the Government of the Kingdom of Norway on cooperation in nuclear and radiation security, the removal from the operation of the Chernobyl nuclear power plant and the conversion of the “Hiddenance” facility into an environmentally sound system is designed to increase the nuclear, radiation and environmental safety of the Chernobyl AES, optimize the process of decommissioning its blocks from operation, expand sources of funding for the inclusion of international technical assistance and exchange of experience in the field of decommissioning. The agreement provides for further cooperation with the Kingdom of Norway in carrying out the tasks of decommissioning the Chernobyl AES and transforming the facility of shelter into an environmentally sound system, developing and carrying out research projects, exchanging information and technology in accordance with national legislation and international standards, providing materials or providing services necessary for the implementation of projects, and providing seminars and training for staff. The implementation of the bill does not require additional costs from the state budget. The bill under consideration today will ensure that the process of decommissioning from the operation of the Chernobyl station blocks and the conversion of the shelter into an environmentally sound system is accelerated. Thank you for your attention. Please be supportive.
ParlaMint-UA_2013-06-05-m0.u125	Sit down, thank you. Please, the deputy chairman of the committee is Yuri Romanovich Miroshnichenko.
ParlaMint-UA_2013-06-05-m0.u126	Thank you, Vladimir Vasilovich. Dear voters, dear colleagues! The Committee on Foreign Affairs considered a draft of the Ukrainian Law on Ratification of the Agreement between the Cabinet of Ministers of Ukraine and the Government of the Kingdom of Norway on cooperation in nuclear and radiation security, on removal from the operation of the Chernobyl nuclear power plant and on the conversion of the facility to an environmentally sound system (registration No. 0019) and approved the decision to recommend it to the Supreme Council of Ukraine as a whole as a law. The purpose of the bill is to implement the internal procedures necessary for the validity of the Agreement, which was made on November 30, 2012, in Oslo. Ratification of the agreement will optimize the process of decommissioning the Chernobyl AES blocks, broaden the sources of funding for this activity through the involvement of international technical assistance, allow sharing of experience and knowledge in the area of decommissioning from the AES energy grids. According to the Explanatory Note signed by the Minister of Ecology and Natural Resources of Ukraine, Proscurakova's implementation of the bill does not foresee any expenditure from the State budget of Ukraine. The main scientific and expert administration of the Supreme Council of Ukraine supports the adoption of the project. The Committee of the Supreme Council of Ukraine on Environmental Policy, Environmental Use and the Consequences of the Chernobyl Disaster considered the bill and supported its adoption as a law as a whole. So, honourable colleagues, please support the Committee's decision in foreign affairs and ratify the agreement. Thank you for your attention, please support this one.
ParlaMint-UA_2013-06-05-m0.u127	People's deputies would like to sign up for a faction discussion. Please, the Fatherland faction, the national deputy of Yavorowski.
ParlaMint-UA_2013-06-05-m0.u128	Vladimir Yavorowski, Kyiv, Troustina, "Fathership" of Julius Timoshenko. Dear colleagues, our constituencies, and our respected black people! Of course, I don't think there'll be one hand in this room that will press the "against" button. It's about co-operation between Ukraine, which remains, to this day, on its own with Chernobyl problems, with technological problems, with 800 temporary so-called nuclear cemeteries, which are in the 30km zone, with the fact that, to this day, Chernobyl is, in fact, an insatiable financial hole where money is being dumped, and the results are, after all, meager, and even snow are falling walls on the Hide object. These are the problems that are now around the suffering black people, who have actually been destroyed today by all the benefits that we've received here in the difficult year 1991-1992. Because Norway is important to us and because it will be treated, well, forgive me for such a word, but it will be treated sincerely absolutely. Because Norway has been hit by the Blackwater Smizzle. In the early days when the Chernobyl cloud went to Scandinavia, including Norway. Because someone, and they usually understand this problem. Because of this, I think we should support and vote. But what our government needs to think about is that in 2013 it's imperative to return the benefits to those blackbacks who went there, to this Chernobyl hell, and today they've actually been forgotten and thrown out of state custody. This will have to be done.
ParlaMint-UA_2013-06-05-m0.u129	The faction of the Party of the Regions, National Deputy Shufrich.
ParlaMint-UA_2013-06-05-m0.u130	Dear Vladimir Vasiljevic, distinguished colleagues, step by step, our country is moving towards making Chernobyl, in the end, a secure environmental system. And today we must be grateful to every country that meets us today, allocates resources, allocates technology, supports us in international institutions so that we can approximate the date and, indeed, ensure a system of concealment within the prescribed time frame. 16 years is not far away, but we are concerned today that these deadlines are not to be disrupted and that is why, of course, we are grateful to all countries, and in this case to the Government of the Kingdom of Norway, that they respond and meet our country and our citizens. We must all face this tragedy together. Regrettably, we must not return the past, but we must do our utmost to ensure that the territory in which this tragedy was set on fire must be returned to our society. And the world community is doing everything today to ensure that this task is met. Dear colleagues, I urge everyone, regardless of what they are doing now, whether their hands hurt or their heads hurt, to vote in favour of ratifying this agreement. Thank you.
ParlaMint-UA_2013-06-05-m0.u131	Freedom Union, Sabia People's Deputy.
ParlaMint-UA_2013-06-05-m0.u132	Please give the floor to the national MP, Alexander Shevchenk.
ParlaMint-UA_2013-06-05-m0.u133	Please, Alexander Chevchenko.
ParlaMint-UA_2013-06-05-m0.u134	Shevchenko, the All-Ukrainian Freedom Union. The All-Ukrainian Freedom Union welcomes the agreement of the Government of the Kingdom of Norway to cooperate with the government and the Cabinet of Ministers of Ukraine in ensuring a normal radiation environment and in fact the removal from the operation of the Chernobyl nuclear power plant, the conversion of the "Hidden" facility into an environmentally safe system. And Freedom will vote in favour of ratifying this agreement. At the same time, I would like to draw the attention of the distinguished national deputies to the fact that the treaty states that the treaty body is the government agency of Ukraine for the management of the alienation zone. At the same time, the agreement does not say anything about the recipient, or recipient, of the benefits that will come from the Government of the Kingdom of Norway. This raises the question: What legal persons will receive such assistance? In addition, Article 6 states that a joint coordination group will be established. Who's going to go in there because the deputies are already in that coordination group? I don't understand what they're gonna do. And in the end, I would like to point out that the Supreme Council, in accordance with the 1969 Vienna Convention, which is called "The Law of International Treaties," has the right to change the agreements that are ratified here. This cannot mean that the government or the ministry has put in place, and the Supreme Council cannot correct the ministry or government. We have that right. Besides, I'd like to pay attention.
ParlaMint-UA_2013-06-05-m0.u135	The Vitalia Klitschka faction, the people's deputy, Rosenko.
ParlaMint-UA_2013-06-05-m0.u136	Please pass the word to Sergio Averchenk.
ParlaMint-UA_2013-06-05-m0.u137	Please, Averchenko National Deputy.
ParlaMint-UA_2013-06-05-m0.u138	Sergey Averchenko, Vitaly Klitschka Faction. Dear colleagues, during our visit to the Chernobyl station, we also considered financial plans and financial commitments to eliminate this terrible tragedy during parliamentary hearings. So, paradoxically, our Ukrainian side is the greatest underpaid or defaulter of its financial obligations. So we have to be grateful to these donor countries that, despite this situation, invest their finances, invest their resources to make the zone environmentally safe. So I ask you to support this bill, and our strike faction will support this bill. And we are very grateful to the Kingdom of Norway. Thank you.
ParlaMint-UA_2013-06-05-m0.u139	Honourable MPs who wanted to speak in the debate. I therefore put to the vote the draft Law (Registration No. 0019) on the ratification of the Agreement between the Cabinet of Ministers of Ukraine and the Government of the Kingdom of Norway on cooperation in the field of nuclear, radiation safety, removal from the operation of the Chernobyl Atomic Power Station and the conversion of the "Hidden" facility into an environmentally sound system for adoption as a whole. Please vote. [[11:56:39]] For 296 Against - 0, held - 0, did not vote - 87. Decision taken. The factions. I'm calling it a 12-hour break for 30 minutes. At 12:30 a.m., let's get back to work.
ParlaMint-UA_2013-06-05-m0.u140	Ladies and gentlemen, please sit down and continue our work. According to article 85, part 17, of the Constitution of Ukraine, the Supreme Council of Ukraine is responsible for hearing the annual report of the Authorized Human Rights Council on the status of respect for and protection of human rights and freedoms in Ukraine. In accordance with article 240 of the Rules, the next order of action is proposed. To make a statement with a report, give the Commissioner of Human Rights up to 20 minutes to answer the questions of the National Deputies, take up to 20 minutes, give the committee a representative up to 10 minutes.
ParlaMint-UA_2013-06-05-m0.u141	Listen to me. I repeat for those who have not heard. In order to make a statement to the Commissioner within 20 minutes, to answer the questions of the National Deputies, take up to 20 minutes, give the committee a representative up to 10 minutes. The discussion is not according to the law. But it's like an MP. This is the rule, but as deputies want to discuss it, they should vote 226 votes. And we're going to talk about this is the right of deputies. Therefore, the word for the report is given to the Authorized Supreme Council of Ukraine for Human Rights of Valeria Volodymyrski Lutkovsky. Please, you have 20 minutes. Please.
ParlaMint-UA_2013-06-05-m0.u142	Thank you very much. The President-in-chief, honourable national deputies, from the first day of my work, my goal is to establish the Human Rights Commissioner's Institute as an effective mechanism for parliamentary control over the observance of human rights and freedoms at national level and to strengthen the influence on public authorities and local self-government to ensure the proper observance of everyone's rights and freedoms. The specific role of the Commissioner for Human Rights is to combine the functions of a right-wing hole with a state-owned body with a special status, which is to act as a mediator, a mediator between a human and a state. Effective parliamentary control over the observance of human rights and freedoms is, inter alia, a preventive role in the protection of human rights and freedoms and in responding to situations of lack of proper action by public authorities. An analysis of the human rights situation in Ukraine reveals a number of serious problems that exist in our country. Over the past year, I have been approached by about 100,000 people, whose analysis and study of the references point to a particular response in the following areas: prevention of torture and cruel behaviour, respect for socio-economic and humanitarian rights, respect for the rights of the child, non-discrimination and gender equality. These questions were identified as priorities in the activities of the secretariat. At the same time, the priorities noted do not in any way make us secondary to other areas of law that are under constant monitoring. Over the last year, the institution has been actively developing with the Ombudsman Plus model, which provides for close interaction with non-governmental public organizations. The Advisory Council has begun its work, consisting of 28 representatives of leading law - enforcement organizations and co-chaired by a well - known lawyer, Eugene Zaharov. In addition, a number of specialized expert councils and groups have been created from experts and experts in separate fields. In accordance with the principles of partnership, accessibility and openness, the Office of the Authorized Officer is constantly conducting law enforcement measures with law enforcement agencies. In order to increase accessibility for those wishing to contact the Authorized One, a free all-U.S. hotline and an electronic call system have been introduced, social networks and Skype are being communicated. In 2012, the Authorized One was given new functions and commitments. To meet the requirements of the Optional Protocol to the United Nations Convention against Torture and Other Cruel, Inhuman or Degrading Dignity, Behavior and Punishment, a national preventive mechanism has begun to be implemented. I must remind you that as early as 2006, Ukraine ratified the Optional Protocol by committing itself to the creation of the National Preventive Mechanism in a year. However, this obligation remained unfulfilled for six years, and only on October 2, 2012, the Supreme Council passed an appropriate law that officially placed the functions of the National Preventive Mechanism on the Authorized Authority. With the aim of approving the Institute of Commissioners in the international arena during the year, some 100 meetings were held with international partners, the issue of co-operation was secured by appropriate agreements with the Ombudsman of the Republic of Moldova, the representation of the United Nations Children's Fund in Ukraine, the Office of Democratic Institutions and Human Rights of the OSCE, the coordinator of the OSCE projects in Ukraine, the International Organization of Migration and the International Labour Organization. Special attention is due to the first step in the regional position of the Office of the Ombudsman of Ukraine and the meeting of the Ombudspersons of the SND countries in Kiev under the auspices of the UN. To sum up the activities of the Commissioner in 2012 and to meet the requirements of Article 18 of the Authorized Act, your opinion is proposed the Annual Report on the Status of Respect and Protection of Human and Civil Rights and Freedoms in Ukraine as a document identifying and analysing systemic problems that lead to violations of human rights and freedoms in Ukraine. In doing so, we welcome the positive achievements and achievements that we have seen during the past year. However, according to international standards and practices of national institutions, the report focuses on the problems and shortcomings identified and provides guidance on how to deal with them. The purpose of this report is not so much a criticism of the existing human rights situation as a contribution to improving the human rights and freedoms situation in our country. For more details on the content of the report, see both the printed and the printed pages. At the moment, in my speech, I would like to pay particular attention to those systemic problems that, unfortunately, exist in our country and are the subject of constant complaints by people. And offer options to solve them. First of all, we need to stop at such a shameful phenomenon as torture and other forms of improper conduct. As already noted, since November 4, 2012, according to the changes made to the law, we have started implementing the National Preventive Mechanism. The adoption of the law of identity was an extremely important step towards the implementation of an effective National Preventive Mechanism under the Optional Protocol. Because the functioning of NPMs by law is one of the key principles in the existence of an independent system of monitoring visits to places of inliberation. Today, we can say that the total number of institutions in Ukraine, which by formal signs may be placed in places of deprivation, exceeds 6,000. Such places are now in the knowledge of 11 ministries and departments. On December 31, officials of the department made monitoring visits to 169 institutions. All monitoring visits are carried out without warning to the administration of the appropriate agency about the time, place, and date of the visit. As a result, such recommendations were made. In particular, at the legislative level it is necessary to prohibit interrogations, other investigations and surveys of citizens by operatives in premises that are not equipped with video recording systems with data archiving. It is necessary to reconcile the provisions of the Ukrainian Law on Previous Prisons and the Law on the Prevention of Tuberculosis concerning the Protection of Persons with Tuberculosis that are Worthy. Appropriate changes should be made to article 9 of the Ukrainian Law on prior imprisonment, such as regarding the determination of the periodicity of receiving the transfer, of the consignments of persons taken into custody. Regarding the length of walks of pregnant women and women who have children, minors, and patients who have a doctor’s permission and with their consent, predicting a period of at least 2 hours (to date it is scheduled for up to 2 hours), since health standards set the length of daily walking for this exact period of time. It is necessary to provide for the rights of those taken into custody to date. To this day it is the exclusive authority of the administration, not the right of the person who is kept in custody, clearly foresaw the length of such a date. To date, dating is usually given only an hour’s duration when it is determined from one hour to four hours. It is also necessary to foresee the right of individuals to date when they receive treatment in health - care institutions. It is necessary to amend article 145 of the Ukrainian Criminal Enforcement Code on the duration of the sentence, according to which discipline can be applied to convicted minors in the form of placement in a disciplinary detention facility for up to 10 days. While article 15 of the Law on prior imprisonment provides that minors who violate the requirements of the regime may be placed in prison for up to five days. In order to ensure the right of citizens to social protection, it is necessary to exclude the prohibition of dating relatives and other persons provided for in article 51 of the Ukrainian Code of Criminal Enforcement. As well as receiving shipments from those sentenced to prison in the form of an arrest. It is necessary to provide in the Penal Code for a convicted person to retire, pay for a child, and so on. Nearly a third of the total number of appeals made to the Commissioner during 2012 involved human rights violations in the judicial branch. In doing so, I would like to draw your attention to the fact that neither the Constitution of Ukraine nor the Law on the Authorized, nor the Law on the Judiciary and the Status of Judges provide for the possibility for the Authorized to influence in any way the exercise of justice. Accordingly, the Authorized Competence is limited to analysing existing problems. In particular, complaints about violations of rights and freedoms by law enforcement officials in the course of a pretrial investigation are often made. Including the right to a fair investigation of a case within a reasonable time frame. Freedom from unlawful arrest or detention. The use of illegal methods of knowledge and investigation, the right to protection, and the legal aid of a defender. A large number of complaints are also related to the enforcement of procedural rights during judicial proceedings, such as the right to a reasonable hearing by the court, the right to change the precautionary measure, the violation of the presumption of innocence, the right to receive copies of procedural documents, and so forth. The greatest of these appeals came from the city of Kiev, Donetsk, Dnipropetrovsk, Kharkiv, Odessa, and Luhansk. The annual report provides examples that support the improper enforcement of criminal and procedural legislation by law enforcement officials. However, the causes of the reported criminal offences, particularly at the stage of the pretrial investigation, were partly related to the imperfection of the criminal process. So when it comes to the right to criminal responsibility. So as the new Criminal Procedure Code becomes effective, the number of references to this issue should be reduced. The entry into force of the new Criminal Procedure Code of Ukraine and the completion of the reform of the criminal justice system in accordance with this Code, including the amendment of the Ukrainian Procurator's Act, give hope that the protection of the rights and freedoms of the person, their confirmation and security in the area of criminal justice will be optimized. Consider, at least, the fact that articles 8, 9, 445 of the Code provide the legal framework for the use of the practice of the European Court of Human Rights not only by judicial institutions but also by all subjects of criminal justice. In this regard, one of the main tasks of the present Ukrainian state and political failure is the introduction and implementation into the criminal justice of the principles and traditions of the European community, the provision of a high degree of protection for the rights and freedoms of the individual, the creation of reliable restraint mechanisms and opponents, the additional system of guarantees for the reasonableness and the purpose of limiting the person’s constitutional rights and freedoms. With regard to civil and administrative protection, citizens who are among the most vulnerable groups of the population, such as pensioners, veterans, children of war, disabled persons, and those who have suffered as a result of an accident at the Chernobyl AES, tend to turn to the Commissioner for the protection of their rights. Infringement of reasonable time limits in the courts continues to be systemic and the reason for this is the improper organization of the material and personnel security of the courts, the excessive workload of judges, the considerable length of expertise, the lack of judicial hearings of the parties to the trial, and so on. However, a breach of procedural terms and an unwarranted burden in court cases are not only due to the shortcomings noted but also to the proper attitude of some judges toward the performance of their duties, which leads to a breach of reasonable terms in the case. A particular outstanding problem that has recently been discussed, including in this courtroom during parliamentary hearings, is the failure to implement judicial decisions. According to Minustu, only about 30 percent of the decisions of national courts are currently being made. This means that the remaining 70 percent is a violation of citizens' rights to judicial protection. As a result, there is a critical low level of confidence in the judicial system of Ukrainian citizens, which should be the most influential basis for the rule of law. In general, failure to execute judicial decisions in Ukraine is the result of many factors that lie both in the economic plane and are based on the imperfections of a number of legislative acts. After all, Ukraine is not the only state in the world that has legislation to prohibit the enforcement of court decisions, but that there are constitutional guarantees for the implementation of the final decision. In 2012, parliamentary control witnessed systemic problems and violations of the constitutional, socio-economic and humanitarian rights of human beings and citizens. Unenforcement of the right to work, adequate wage levels, timely pay, social protection, such as pensions, lack of access to quality medical and educational services, violations of housing and environmental rights, have resulted in a large number of appeals. The main reasons for the violation of human socio-economic rights, I believe, are the imperfect legislation and legislation that does not guarantee the rule of law; the limited financial resources of the State and the inefficient exercise of executive powers and local self-government; the absence of a constructive social dialogue in addressing acute problems in the sphere of socio-economic and humanitarian human rights; mistrust and lack of access to justice, etc. Monitoring, in particular, of citizens' appeals and public monitoring of compliance with labour law shows violations of the human right to work, other labour rights guaranteed by articles 43, 44, 45 of the Ukrainian Constitution, Ukrainian laws, international acts, including conventions of the International Labour Organization ratified by Ukraine. One of the common human rights violations is the violation of the right of workers to receive full and timely remuneration for work. The introduction of citizens’ appeals has also demonstrated a number of systemic problems in the area of constitutional rights for social protection. In particular, in the area of pension insurance, 2012 has become the first full year of implementation of pension reform measures, a massive recalculation of previously assigned pensions, such as an increase in the living minimum, and so forth. The average pension in Ukraine as of January 1, 2013, is $1,470, 73 dollars, 17.4 percent more than at the beginning of 2012. In nearly 17.8 retirees, the pension does not exceed 1,000 dollars. The proportion of pensioners with a pension of more than 1,000,500 in 2012 amounted to 26.1 percent compared to 16 percent in 2011. The number of pensioners with pensions fell by 24.7 thousand below the subsistence minimum. Regrettably, however, there has not been a significant increase in pension benefits expected by people. Tens of thousands of pensioners have actually lost their previously assigned pensions, including failure to make court decisions. There are virtually no decisions made by the courts on pension payments. The nation’s debt to humans continues to accumulate. In view of the fact that the sums accrued, according to a court decision, can only be paid under appropriate funding from the State budget, I have made a proposal to the Supreme Council of Ukraine for the provision of public budget funds for payment of debts with a court decision by the Pension Fund of Ukraine to citizens. Unfortunately, when the State Budget Act was adopted, the proposals were not taken into account. Clearly, given the large amounts of financial resources needed, the limited capacity of the State budget, the need to eliminate discrimination in social protection and pension insurance for those who have reached a court decision and those who have neither the strength nor the resources to judge the State, finding an optimal solution is an extremely difficult task. So I think it's necessary to have a balanced, socio-political dialogue with representatives of the government and civil society, which would be able to identify the real mechanisms for ensuring the constitutional rights of citizens to social protection. In addition, monitoring has shown that there are violations of the right of citizens to maintain a proper pension due to the loss of a breadwinner who died as a result of an accident in production or occupational illness. In connection with the gaps in the legislation of the Pension Fund authorities, the basic amount of pension due to the loss of a breadwinner who died as a result of an industrial accident is assigned to the extent defined in article 19 of the Ukrainian Pension Insurance Act, which took place on July 1, 2003, namely, 150 dollars. Unsustainability of necessary medicines, lack of access to medical care through the reduction of the network of medical facilities, the spread of informal payments, the high cost of medicines and treatments, including surgical operations, the improper performance of individual health - care professionals, and so forth, are the subject of numerous complaints by citizens. As the President of Ukraine rightly pointed out, the medical system does not need to be broken, and it needs to be modified and improved. Regrettably, monitoring indicates that the process is reversed. The ability of citizens to deal with housing issues on their own by means of a state is an extremely complex problem. The level of accessibility of people to housing, especially with middle and low incomes, is extremely low. Regrettably, the implementation of the State guarantee for the provision of residential income categories in the first or second order is extended for decades. People are waiting for their rights to be realized throughout their lives. About a quarter of the 2012 housing rights abuses involved housing rights. Appropriately, legislative arrangements are needed to create conducive conditions for the development of construction, to improve housing acquisition mechanisms, and to ensure the fulfilment of the State’s obligations regarding the availability of housing for all categories of Ukrainian citizens. As in previous years, the problem of ensuring the right of citizens to adequate housing services, establishing fair tariffs for these services, obtaining housing subsidies, repairing housing, setting up individual heating facilities, and protecting them from improperly shutting down houses from gas, electricity and water supply remains unresolved. There is a need for regulation and for the guarantee of the return of funds that people have invested in credit unions. Many claimants have challenged the issue of establishing State guarantees regarding the return of funds invested in such associations, referring to the State’s allowing credit unions to exist, but failed to ensure their activities and guarantees of return. Children are the most vulnerable category in need of protection. Monitoring shows that the most acute problems remain the protection of the child’s right to life and health, overcoming child poverty, homelessness, carelessness, social security, child abuse, violations of the rights of the child to receive State social assistance, alimony, housing, and family education. In addition, a child’s father - in - law remains an urgent problem. By the beginning of 2013, there were 93,000 orphans and children deprived of parental care in Ukraine. Despite the positive trend in reducing the total number of such children, their proportion remains high. In recent times, family forms of care have been actively introduced. The number of orphans, children deprived of parental care, has increased significantly, and they have been assigned to foster families and foster homes of the family type. In developing this system, particular attention needs to be given to the quality of such families and the effectiveness of their social support. At the same time, the State should not limit its attention to this form of child rearing but should also support the development of all forms of family education, including adoption and care. Honourable national MPs, legislation to prevent and combat discrimination in Ukraine are relatively new, and the problem of maintaining the right to freedom from discrimination is urgent. Ensuring freedom from discrimination in practice remains or is not the most problematic issue in Ukraine. In this regard, I would like to point out that the draft Law amending some Ukrainian legislation on prevention and combating discrimination is a step towards solving the problems noted by the government and registered in the Supreme Council of Ukraine. I would also like to draw your attention.
ParlaMint-UA_2013-06-05-m0.u143	Finish up.
ParlaMint-UA_2013-06-05-m0.u144	I would like to draw your attention to the fact that article 39 of the Constitution guarantees the right of citizens to meet peacefully without arms and to hold assemblies, rallies, marches and demonstrations. This right is an integral part of a social instrument for the development of democracy and is enshrined in a number of international conventions and agreements. Since independence, however, our nation has no special law on the settlement of this right. It is worth mentioning that the Supreme Council of May 2008.
ParlaMint-UA_2013-06-05-m0.u145	Thank you. Thank you. People’s deputies are asked to sign up for a question to the Human Rights Council of the Supreme Council of Ukraine. Here comes the recording. We have 20 minutes to answer the question. Welcome to Vitalia Klitschka, Averchenko.
ParlaMint-UA_2013-06-05-m0.u146	Sergey Averchenko, Vitalia Klitschka Faction, please pass the word Vitalia Volodymyrovich Klitch.
ParlaMint-UA_2013-06-05-m0.u147	Pass it on, please. Please, Vitalia Volodymyrovich, please.
ParlaMint-UA_2013-06-05-m0.u148	Question: How did you, as Commissioner of the Supreme Council for Human Rights, specifically do and should do so to ensure that there were no political ties in Ukraine? For example, please explain to Julia Timoshenko.
ParlaMint-UA_2013-06-05-m0.u149	Thank you for asking, Vitaly Volodymyrovich. I would like to point out once again that neither the Constitution of Ukraine nor the Law on the Judiciary and the Status of Judges nor the Law on the Authorized do provide for any involvement of the Commissioner in justice, except for some very limited opportunities to represent the interests of a person who cannot protect himself on his own in the civil process and within the framework of the Code of Administrative Justice. In all other cases, the Authorized One has no right to intervene in the exercise of justice.
ParlaMint-UA_2013-06-05-m0.u150	Freedom Union, National Deputy Shevchenko.
ParlaMint-UA_2013-06-05-m0.u151	Please pass the word to Andrew Illenka.
ParlaMint-UA_2013-06-05-m0.u152	Please, Andrew Illenka.
ParlaMint-UA_2013-06-05-m0.u153	Andrew Illenko, faction of the All-Ukrainian Freedom Union, city of Kiev. Mrs. Lutkovska, I wanted to ask you about two very resonant criminal cases. The first issue is the so-called "wassilk terrorists" when three people -- Sergio Bevenza, Vladimir Spar and Igor Masijczuk -- were thrown into the detention facility almost two years ago for completely absurd and premeditated accusations. And in fact, today there is a court in the Kyevo-Svetoshin District Court, where Judge Burbela violates all possible procedural standards, has made this trial closed, does not allow journalists, not even national MPs, violates the right of these people to lawyers and to legal protection, in fact, is delaying this case because people are still in custody, and this case is not moving. I would also like to ask you, your opinion, about the equally absurd and pretentious case of the father and son of Pavlichenko, who are being charged with a murder they did not commit. Thank you.
ParlaMint-UA_2013-06-05-m0.u154	Thank you so much for asking. Well, once again, I emphasize that we do not have the right to interfere in criminal conduct, but in one case or another, the representatives of the Commissioner are present in judicial proceedings. In the case of "wasilkian terrorists", taking into account the special resonance of this case, as well as the actions of the judge, I was actually entitled to the law -- I went to the Higher Qualifications Commission of Judges with a complaint against the judge. To date, the Higher Qualifying Commission has accepted this complaint, but it has held back until a verdict is passed. Besides, both of you. On both matters, our representatives from the Department of Implementation of the National Preventive Mechanism visited the relevant people in the detention facilities where they were located, found the conditions under which they were kept, tried to provide them with effective medical care. But once again, I emphasize that the influence of the Commissioner on the exercise of justice, as well as the influence of any other person other than the judge, is prohibited by the Constitution of Ukraine.
ParlaMint-UA_2013-06-05-m0.u155	Nadajchenko, Vitalia Klitka Faction.
ParlaMint-UA_2013-06-05-m0.u156	Nadajchenko, Vitalia Klitka Faction. Please pass the word to our colleagues, Alexander Kugel, of the Fatherland faction.
ParlaMint-UA_2013-06-05-m0.u157	Please, Alexandra Kugel.
ParlaMint-UA_2013-06-05-m0.u158	Thank you. Sadly, we have not heard a report on human rights in Ukraine. We heard the deputy minister's report from justice. For the first time, the members of the Supreme Council keep a report that does not contain a special chapter on the analysis of citizens’ appeals to human rights. This is provided for in article 16 of the Law concerning the Authorized of Human Rights. Tell us why or, and in our opinion, this gives us the right to reject your report and for violating the Human Rights Commissioner's Law, to start your case of inadequacy. But while you're responding, according to the President's orders, from the factions of three, Freedom and Fatherhood, take the MP's call for the duty of your intervention to violate Yulia Timoshenko's rights and appeal for her release.
ParlaMint-UA_2013-06-05-m0.u159	Well, first of all, I would like to point out that the whole report is actually based on an analysis of citizens' references, and that's actually clear from the text of this report. Thank you. As for this presentation, which was today, it's just a presentation of a report. The report itself gives you the opportunity to read. It's really all based on the monitoring that we're doing on our own or on an analysis of citizens' appeals. As for, in fact, Mrs. Timoshenko, her conduct has been revealed for quite some time, and it continues, it has not stopped for an hour.
ParlaMint-UA_2013-06-05-m0.u160	Freedom Union, National Deputy Benjuk.
ParlaMint-UA_2013-06-05-m0.u161	Freedom Union, Bogdan Benjuk. Mrs. Lutkovska, I have a question for you. I have a huge number of letters from Odessa, from our southern Palmyra, concerning the fact that local authorities who run education and the area forbid the opening of Ukrainian classes in Russian schools. In fact, there is no Ukrainian school in Odessa. Ukrainian classes are motivated by the fact that they cannot be discovered because there are few statements, and this is an outright lie. Is it possible to contact you with such a package of letters as the Odessa residents, who are taking the first class to pay attention to this problem in Odessa? And I would also like to take this opportunity to draw your attention to the region of Ivano-Frankiv, the region of Transduran. There's actually a big oil plant that's now. They're already shrinking completely jobs, people are being kicked out of work -- and they all end up in time abroad, and then they become our immigrants, Ukrainian immigrants, who are illegal. We'd like to invite you to our house on July 3rd.
ParlaMint-UA_2013-06-05-m0.u162	Please.
ParlaMint-UA_2013-06-05-m0.u163	The question is understandable. Thank you for inviting me, I will try to be, because the question is really, really important, but not really, the question of what is completing a business, but the question of what is, really, labour migrants in Europe, and this is really the question of protecting our citizens. As for Odessa, of course, I look forward to these references. Let's look at it and try to do our best to help.
ParlaMint-UA_2013-06-05-m0.u164	Freedom Union, Schweik's deputy.
ParlaMint-UA_2013-06-05-m0.u165	It's the turn of the Cherniaks. In turn it was written by the Cherniaks. Black word. Pass it on, please. Please pass the word to Chernjakov.
ParlaMint-UA_2013-06-05-m0.u166	Valerius Chernjakov, All-Ukrainian Freedom Union, Carpathians. I'd like to report a crime. As a deputy, I was approached by the parents of minor children, who were brutally beaten on 17 April 2013 by a member of the Provincial Council of the Communist Party of Ukraine, who was registered by medical authorities. Doctors. He packed them in his car, took them to the river, and promised to sink them. After that, I demanded 4,000 dollars from my parents. The police opened the case, but she wants to shut it down quietly. The MP feared, said he had connections in the Supreme Council. We'd like you to take control of the case, because that's how we have a new password. Therefore, we ask that we take this matter under control and bring it to its end so that it can be punished.
ParlaMint-UA_2013-06-05-m0.u167	Thank you for asking. But I would ask in writing to be able to respond adequately.
ParlaMint-UA_2013-06-05-m0.u168	I'm asking you, the Fatherland faction, the people's deputy Kupreyczyk.
ParlaMint-UA_2013-06-05-m0.u169	Deputy Kupreyczyk, Fatherland faction. Please pass the word to Andrew Shevchenko.
ParlaMint-UA_2013-06-05-m0.u170	Please, Andrew Chevchenko.
ParlaMint-UA_2013-06-05-m0.u171	Dear Valery Volodymyrna! Questions. First. How did the account of the Authorized Man’s Rights not mention Julia Timoshenko and Yuri Lucenko? There is a decision by the European Court of Human Rights that is now being ignored by the Ukrainian authorities. International organizations are screaming about this, but your 267-page report never mentions it. How should we understand that? Is this part of your commitment to this assignment? The other one. How did it happen that the requirements of the European Parliament, the European Union, the OSCE were completely ignored here? I'll remind you. Political prisoners in Ukraine, selective justice, violation of the right to choose. Why not mention it in a word. Third. How did the Human Rights Commissioner’s report reveal nothing about freedom of speech, access to information, and rights of national minorities? The conclusion is very simple. You were expected to say simply that the main human rights violator in this country is power. I'm sorry. In opposition between power and between citizens.
ParlaMint-UA_2013-06-05-m0.u172	Answer me.
ParlaMint-UA_2013-06-05-m0.u173	Thank you for asking. Well, first of all, with regard to the European Court of Human Rights ruling, I would like to draw your attention to the 2012 Report. It's different. When it comes to these matters specifically, I reiterate that the report referred to systemic problems that exist in Ukraine. Thirdly, when it comes to some issues that are not really covered by this report, it just means that special reports are being prepared on these issues. One's ready. And I will ask Parliament to listen to a special report on the activities of the National Preventive Mechanism in more detail and expanded. I will also ask Parliament to listen to a special report on the status of national minorities in Ukraine, as well as on access to public information.
ParlaMint-UA_2013-06-05-m0.u174	Vitalia Klitschka faction, deputy of Cherneg.
ParlaMint-UA_2013-06-05-m0.u175	Roman Cherneg, Vitaly Caller Faction. Dear Mrs. Reporter! You know, your report doesn't really say a lot of things, the ones my colleagues said. But I would like to ask you other questions. There's a lot in the programs of activity and government, and the President is talking about proper social protection, medicine. In particular, "Quick" is coming to see the patient in 20 minutes in Ukraine. Do you not think that aside from the many things that you have not mentioned in the report, the problems of ordinary citizens should be more detailed in your view? So to very many complaints, appeals come to us as national MPs, which we refer to you as the main defender of human rights in Ukraine. Please answer the question.
ParlaMint-UA_2013-06-05-m0.u176	I would like to draw your attention to the chapter "Social Economic and Humanitarian Rights" which is a chapter that deals with the criticism of medical reform that is taking place today. And anything that can be done in this direction, we will continue to do.
ParlaMint-UA_2013-06-05-m0.u177	The faction of the Ukrainian Company, the national deputy of Bidovka.
ParlaMint-UA_2013-06-05-m0.u178	Please pass the word to Peter Stepanovich Cibenko.
ParlaMint-UA_2013-06-05-m0.u179	Let's do it, Cibenka.
ParlaMint-UA_2013-06-05-m0.u180	Thank you. Communist faction, head of the Ukrainian Veterans' Council, Peter Cibenko. Dearly authorized! You have an extremely responsible position in Ukraine in part of human rights. We are told that Ukraine has created one of the best legislative bases in the social protection of the population. But as children of war survive today, war veterans, war veterans, other defenseless categories may well know one another and the Lord God. And that's with the best legislative base in the social protection part. People like the Manna of Heaven were waiting for the introduction of the Ukrainian Law on State Guarantees for the Enforcement of Judgments. It came into effect as of January of this year, but there is no movement. Please tell me what you are doing specifically, please as Authorized of human rights, so that legislation in Ukraine can be carried out in order for it to be the sacred duty of an official.
ParlaMint-UA_2013-06-05-m0.u181	Thank you so much for asking. And actually that's the problem that we've been explaining in the report. It's a really huge problem that is today and it's actually accumulated and it's not being solved. I'm afraid I don't have the right to legislative initiative, it's true, under the Constitution of Ukraine. But I applied to both the Head of the Supreme Council and to the head of the relevant budgetary committee to provide for the corresponding payments in the State Budget Act 2013. Unfortunately, these proposals were not taken into account. The only thing I can offer in this case, and what I'm actually doing today is to offer a platform for a social dialogue, because solving the problems that are accumulated over the years is still necessary. And this really requires a social dialogue between the executive, legislative authorities, among the representatives of civil society in order to find out the mechanism for paying off that debt, which is also a reduction in the rate of increasing that debt that exists. It will not be an easy question, it will be a difficult political issue. But one way or another, parliament has to solve this problem.
ParlaMint-UA_2013-06-05-m0.u182	The Fatherland faction, Deputy Shulga.
ParlaMint-UA_2013-06-05-m0.u183	Vladimir Schulga, Fatherland faction. Please pass the word to the Prince.
ParlaMint-UA_2013-06-05-m0.u184	You're welcome to the Princess.
ParlaMint-UA_2013-06-05-m0.u185	Dear Mrs. Lutkovska, two questions, one of them was raised by colleagues from Liberty. The terrorist situation so - called in Ukraine is almost all fabricated. In addition to the Vasilk terrorist case, we know the Macyev terrorist case. We know the Dnipropetrov terrorist case, where two out of four people have nothing to do with it. We know many other things. It's the Palamarov thing. Are you raising these questions? And another very important question. The UN General Assembly Declaration directly speaks of the impossibility of persecuting human rights defenders. We've got a whole bunch of fabricated cases against Dmitry Groysman's fault lawyer. Are you involved in these matters? And are you following through on these issues? Thank you.
ParlaMint-UA_2013-06-05-m0.u186	Thank you for asking. Once again, I would like to stress that I have no right to intervene in the justice process, which is prohibited by the Constitution of Ukraine. But in part, which belongs to my jurisdiction, as I said, we are partly present in court hearings in order to analyse the course of court hearings and, accordingly, to use the possibility of referring to the High Qualifications Commission of Judges in case there are grounds for that. In some cases, we simply monitor the development of these events as a basis for analysis. But we have no right to interfere in the exercise of justice.
ParlaMint-UA_2013-06-05-m0.u187	Faction of Freedom, People’s Deputy Bublik.
ParlaMint-UA_2013-06-05-m0.u188	Please pass the word to Deputy Ariev of the "Fatherland" faction.
ParlaMint-UA_2013-06-05-m0.u189	Please, Ariev.
ParlaMint-UA_2013-06-05-m0.u190	Dear Mrs. Ombutsman, well, first of all, I fully agree with my colleague that this report is, rather, a report from the Ministry of Internal Affairs, but not a report from the Commissioner for Human Rights. Excuse me, that's my opinion. And as it turns out, it's not just mine. But what have we seen lately? The rights of Ukrainian citizens to take part in protests are insolently violated. In particular, in spite of Resolution (2015) adopted by the Parliamentary Assembly of the Council of Europe, young people who protest under the Inter-Igoria or on the route of following the President, who carry out peaceful protests in accordance with the law, throw in car crashes, lead to trial, lie there. Besides, we're seeing activists getting beat up by Freedom, Fatherland, Hitter, Demalyansu, where their eagles, Zacharychenka.
ParlaMint-UA_2013-06-05-m0.u191	Answer me.
ParlaMint-UA_2013-06-05-m0.u192	Thank you for asking. I would like to draw your attention to the fact that at the end of my report I am still able to say that we do have a systemic problem, which is that we have a constitutional rule on the right to peaceful action, but we do not have a legislative mechanism to implement this standard. And we need such a legislative mechanism. And I am very grateful to the Human Rights Committee, which has assumed such a function of moderator between civil society, the authorities and, accordingly, is now trying to draft the text of a bill that has to be registered and tabled in Parliament. And accordingly, at least, we will know clearly how to realize the rights set forth in the article of the corresponding Constitution of Ukraine.
ParlaMint-UA_2013-06-05-m0.u193	National Deputy Cosemyakin, faction of the Fatherland. I'm asking him to turn it on, we're listening.
ParlaMint-UA_2013-06-05-m0.u194	Sobolev, National Deputy, Fatherland faction.
ParlaMint-UA_2013-06-05-m0.u195	Where's Kozemyakin? Where's Kozemyakin? Show me where Kozemyakin is. The Fatherland faction, Jarem.
ParlaMint-UA_2013-06-05-m0.u196	Please give the floor to Deputy Sobolev.
ParlaMint-UA_2013-06-05-m0.u197	Please hand over the deputy to Soboljev.
ParlaMint-UA_2013-06-05-m0.u198	Sobolje, Fatherland. Please tell us that there are a number of decisions of the European Court of Human Rights today, and above all the decisions concerning the illegal prisoner Timoshenko, Lucenka, are illegal. Until now, the judges who had approved these decisions, the prosecutors who had given such commands, Janukovic himself, were sitting in their seats. You as an authorized person or you don't think that such woeful judges and woeful prosecutors should be removed from their posts and brought to justice. Do you have this situation with so - called justice and so - called prosecutorial supervision? I would like to hear your answer and clearly on that question. I'm asking about Timoshenko and Lucenko, not any other case at all, and thousands of our citizens who are dealing with the European Court.
ParlaMint-UA_2013-06-05-m0.u199	Thank you so much for asking. I would like to draw your attention to the fact that the decision of the European Court of Justice in the Timoshenko case has not yet become final. With regard to decisions in other cases brought by the European Court of Human Rights, first of all, we do not have the authority of the Authorized Authority to take any responsibility, this time. Secondly, we do not have legislation to bring responsibility to the person who, in fact, has made it possible for us to appeal to the European Court of Human Rights. But this is actually a question for Parliament.
ParlaMint-UA_2013-06-05-m0.u200	Thank you. The system of Sabia and Shevchenk Andrew failed. So two questions and we're done with the answers. Please, National Deputy Sabi.
ParlaMint-UA_2013-06-05-m0.u201	Dear Mrs. Lutkovska! In your report, you gave no examples of who you and your office specifically helped after the creation of the so - called national preventive mechanism, which consists of more than 40 employees for budget money. You have not evaluated the violation of the right to vote. You didn't say a word about the violation of journalists' rights, the beating of protesters with the help of "Berkut." Not a word about detention is justifiable and arrest. You have been silent about 22 deaths since you were appointed by the police. Please tell me, who will be responsible for these innocent deaths as a result of the police’s inaction? And why do you personally refuse? Moreover, during peaceful protests, there is a constant court decision to ban them, a violation of the fundamental human right of the people and a charge even before the European Court of Human Rights. Please give me an answer.
ParlaMint-UA_2013-06-05-m0.u202	Thank you so much for asking. First of all, a national preventive mechanism that is designed in accordance with an international treaty cannot help a particular person, even though we are helping. Its main purpose is to prevent torture and illicit conduct. Prevention in relation to everyone, not in relation to a particular person. Although, in principle, within the department's activities, which implements the National Preventive Mechanism, there are specific people who have been given specific assistance and effective medical care and dating opportunities and opportunities to get acquainted with their criminal affairs and so on. As far as peace action is concerned, I repeat, today the Human Rights and National Relations Committee of the Supreme Council of Ukraine is working on the text of the bill, which is to become the second civil constitution for Ukrainian citizens. Because it must be a mechanism for the realization of the constitutional right to meet peacefully. And I very much hope that this work will be successful, and Ukraine will finally be given an appropriate legislative act.
ParlaMint-UA_2013-06-05-m0.u203	Please, Andrew Shevchenko, Fatherland faction.
ParlaMint-UA_2013-06-05-m0.u204	Thank you, Vladimir Vasilovich. We did not hear any specifics in the answers to questions about the two prisoners — Julia Timoshenko and Yuri Lucenko. There's no argument that we're not finished there. The conclusion of the European Court of Human Rights for Yuri Lucenko was in 2012. For the world as a whole, the situation is obvious for Ukraine; only for the Ukrainian Commissioner for Human Rights is this situation not understood. And on page 267 you didn't even try to mention these two cases that the whole world is screaming about. And, you know, it's not just about Timoshenko and Lucenka, it's about ordinary citizens that unfortunately the Commissioner doesn't notice either. Because there's nothing in this report about the right to work, about the right to medicine, about other social and economic rights, about the right to a decent life, and about the right to dignity that is being ignored daily in this country. Why don't you just call it your names, that the main human rights violation in this country is power? Please do not take sides in this opposition to power and to Yanukovich, who is the personification of it. Thank you.
ParlaMint-UA_2013-06-05-m0.u205	Thank you so much for asking. But I would like to draw your attention to the fact that the question of health reform, regarding social security, is highlighted in a relevant chapter called "Social Economic and Humanitarian Rights," and it's all quite detailed. In addition, with regard to specific matters of Timoshenko and Lucenka, I repeat, the conduct on these matters has been revealed in its own time. It didn't close, it went on. But while the authorized one has no authority to interfere with the judicial branch, and this is a violation of the Constitution of Ukraine, the proper conduct applied solely to the conditions of being in places of disqualification, as was the case with many other Ukrainian citizens who referred to it. On these issues, we've actually been looking into these things within the scope of competence.
ParlaMint-UA_2013-06-05-m0.u206	Thank you. Have a seat.
ParlaMint-UA_2013-06-05-m0.u207	The statement is given to the head of the Committee of the Supreme Council of Ukraine on Human Rights by Valery Vasilovich Puckan. Please. Start speaking. We're calm, we're working on it.
ParlaMint-UA_2013-06-05-m0.u208	Good day, Reverend Head, distinguished national MPs, distinguished voters! Valérie Paccan, head of the Human Rights Committee, national relations, faction of the political party strike. Everyone immediately listened to the report of the Commissioner for Human Rights. The committee would like to draw your attention to the three aspects highlighted in this report. Hearing the annual report of the Commissioner for Human Rights on the state of observance and protection of human rights and freedoms in Ukraine is one of our parliamentary powers, as provided for in article 85 of the Constitution of Ukraine. The Committee on Human Rights, National Smaller and International Relations, as well as each of you, has received numerous petitions from citizens regarding violations of their rights and requests for assistance. During this year alone, more than 2,000 citizens of Ukraine came to the committee. Practically all these appeals are aimed at violating their rights as applicants to ensure that the legality and actual implementation of the human rights and freedoms enshrined in the Constitution are respected. According to an analysis of citizens coming to the committee, a number of aspects can be identified. In a civilized state, the central seat is the court. It is the court that is the key to the mechanism for the protection of human rights. Unfortunately, the effectiveness of the judicial system in Ukraine is low. Today or not, the issue of judicial reform, which we've been talking about for almost 20 years, is the most important. Clearly, if we really want to live in a civilized country, we need to solve the problem of an independent impartial and fair court. But without such a court there cannot be a legal state and a democratic society. According to Ukrainian law enforcement agencies, which conduct annual studies on human rights in Ukraine, in 2012 justice did not become more accessible and transparent, but the direction of direct influence of the President and the President's Administration on the judiciary and on the judicial branch of power has increased considerably. Such confidence in the court cannot be found in court cases for years. The largest number of complaints relates to the enforcement of procedural rights during judicial proceedings, including the right to a reasonable hearing by a court, the right to change the precautionary measure, the violation of the presumption of innocence, and the right to obtain personal documents. Lawyers also point to increased trends in the use of the courts by the authorities. These criminal cases testify to the political opponents of the party of power, i.e. to the opposition’s representatives, the very key of Julia Timoshenko and Yuri Lucenko, who end up fully supporting the prosecution’s stand. It is almost impossible to find honest truth in court. I just want to focus on the fact that today's version, the fact that today the police held the head of the Brovarsky local centre of Roman Semitulin's strike party, who acted as a protector for the peace Saturday at the Victory Party. The militia's way across the line. The other aspect is social. How can it be explained that the government does not comply with existing social laws but is governed by its own legislation when making decisions in the social sphere? The important problem that I wanted to focus your attention on is protecting our citizens from torture and other forms of cruel treatment. I would like to point out that Ukraine is a party to the international conventions on the subject. on the non-request of torture. It should be noted that the Authorized has done a considerable job of creating and operating a national preventive mechanism against torture in Ukraine within a short period of time, but it is equally important that the authorities have carried out the recommendations and proposals made by the Authorized Authorities to prevent improper inhumane treatment of people. Once again, I would like to reiterate the opinion of defenders on human rights violations in this area. Today, there is a potential risk for everyone. A regular passerby, a witness to events, and even at times a police officer himself may become the target of illegal law enforcement violence. Even the Ukrainian government admitted that torture and cruel treatment of people in law enforcement remains one of the hottest. And there's a preventive mechanism that needs to work now, and this preventive mechanism needs to be supported by the government. I can't help but stop observing the rights of prisoners. Our recent committee with the Human Rights Commissioner to perform the control function was visited by the investigative isolation number 13. I would like to draw your attention to the fact that the conditions governing the detention of prisoners are beyond the limits. I get it, we understand that the complexity of the problems now and of the financing, which is the problem of the allocation of funds. But this government has been approached by an enna number of different mechanisms. There are a number of mechanisms that need to be addressed. And this is a problem that needs to be solved by the authorities. Another problem I'd like to stop at is the right of citizens to freedom of peaceful meetings, which has just risen here, in this room. Today, there are problems with the observance of citizens’ rights to peaceful meetings guaranteed to citizens in the Constitution of Ukraine, namely article 39 and international instruments of which Ukraine is a party. According to law - enforcement monitoring, 90 percent of the authorities ’ appeals to ban peaceful meetings are satisfied, and a review of the issue shows that there are certain causes of problems in the area of respect for the rights of citizens to peaceful meetings associated with insufficient legal regulation. One statistic for today, 378 peaceful meetings have been banned in Ukraine. So we go out and what the authorities really do is what they want us to do to our peaceful citizens. The committee's position on these issues is exactly the same as that of most representatives of the public, including the Commissioner for Human Rights. We need a law that regulates these, this mechanism, the Freedom of Meeting Act. Today, there is an expanded committee meeting where the work is already being done. The text of this law worked together with the public, along with the Ministry of Justice and the Office of the President. And finally, with regard to the committee's conclusions on the Commissioner's annual report itself. During the discussion of the report, the members of the committee noted the importance of receiving the report in advance, which would contribute to a deeper, earlier report of the committee. Regrettably, the report submitted by the Chargé d'affaires has left the problem of protecting the rights of migrant workers and foreign Ukrainians, as well as the extremely sensitive problem of the restoration of rights, the problems of Crimean Tatars whose rights have been violated as a result of deportation on a national basis. Thus, the Commissioner's report today, as before, contains conclusions and recommendations on how to improve the status of citizens' rights and freedoms, but without specific examples to be found in this report. This report cannot be a barometer on the human rights situation. We cannot and cannot remain with you as statisticians and limit ourselves to hearing the facts of human rights violations. We should act as law - enforcement agents. This report should be used as a basis for further legislative activity. Thank you for your attention.
ParlaMint-UA_2013-06-05-m0.u209	Thank you. Have a seat. Let's move on to making a decision. May I have your attention, please? In accordance with part six of article 240 of the Ukrainian Law on the Supreme Council Rules of Procedure and part four of article 18 of the Ukrainian Law on the Authorized Supreme Council of Ukraine on Human Rights, the Ukrainian Supreme Council Committee on Human Rights, National Minorities and International Relations introduced the draft Ordinance (Registrational No. 2927) on the annual report of the Human Rights Council of Ukraine on the status of respect for and protection of human rights and freedoms in Ukraine. I am voting on the draft Decree (Registration No. 2927) on the annual report of the Human Rights Council of Ukraine, Commissioner for Human Rights, on the status of respect for and protection of human rights and freedoms in Ukraine for adoption as a basis. I read the first paragraph in full, please vote. [[13:30:11]] For a hundred and
ParlaMint-UA_2013-06-05-m0.u210	The decision is not taken. Let's move on. A draft law on the denunciation of the Agreement between the Government of the Union of Soviet Socialist Republics and the Government of the Republic of Cyprus on the avoidance of double taxation of income and property since 29 October 1982 is under consideration. How do we view it? Please, who is in favour of a reduced procedure, vote. [[13:31:21]] For-138 Against – 67, held – 3, not voted – 156. The decision is not taken. I'm asking you to vote. [[B in m in s a l in]] You don't have to? Solve your opposition as to what to do. I'm betting on a motion for a brief hearing. Please vote. Please vote. [[13:32:21]] For a hundred and Don't yell at me, yell at each other. Please, National Deputy Yavorowski Volodymyr Aleksandrovich. Maybe we'll take this up today, I don't know.
ParlaMint-UA_2013-06-05-m0.u211	Dear voters, dear colleagues! Brezhnev died in 1982. The old men came to power for a very short distance. And fancy funerals, that sort of thing. The great artificially created country, its economy, its morals, its international policies began to rot. We know how it ended. And at this time, in 1982, the Soviet leadership then signs a deal with a tiny country in the middle of the island (because one half is so progrey and the other is actually Turkish) to hide both party cash and party money and their own money. It's been so long. The Soviet Union collapsed long ago, resting in God. For 20 years, there is an independent Ukrainian state. And then the signed deal works for all the power. I can say today, and I think this will be confirmed by literally every honest and normal person. About what happened through the banks of Cyprus, almost all of the Ukrainian wealth was leaked, profited by many generations of Ukrainians, our parents, our grandparents, and us, in fact, with you. In Cyprus a huge financial hole was formed, where funds flowed from the post - Soviet space. And from Russia, and maybe a little less from Belarus. But of course, a lot of it was Ukrainian. On one occasion, an ambassador to Cyprus in Ukraine named the figure. He said I quote him. He said that the Cyprus funds that came from Ukraine in Cyprus's banks were 14.7 billion. That is, almost 15 billion! But it's very interesting what was after that in his phrase. He said, "But it's just money that's not covered in bank secrecy." So you can imagine what's behind that mystery. It's a question of denunciation of this obsolete completely delicate agreement that sucked all the juices out of Ukraine: economics, morals, and so forth. A country that has become a haven for shadow business, for corruption, for money laundering. There is to this day. This was a question for me, and I'm not the first one here. And I will also be supported by Pinzenik's colleague, who brought his own bill on this subject. I have to say, but she didn't make the decision. Why didn't it pass? That's pretty clear. And don't let anyone get to me, but in this room, I'm sure there are people who have the same stake in keeping their money hidden in Cyprus. However, no one was expecting, everyone thought that Cyprus was a small country, there was a piece of sea, there, somewhere in the mountains a vineyard and so forth. A country whose budget is being developed and which is only on the bank's capital, in fact, almost, well, still a tourist business there and so forth. No one thought there would be such a great siege of Cyprus, and that a great deal of money shoved in, driven there would literally be legalized. This is what happened today. And we know a lot of names, a lot of names, not only Ukrainian names, but also Ukrainian people who kept their money there. Well, it seems after that, when Cyprus got into this pit, I think it's going to come out of it, and it's also because it's the Greek part of Cyprus, it's Greek, so to speak, territory. And the problems of Greece are financial, of course, that they hit this small part of Cyprus. Because of this, it seems like the time is coming to denounce this old, completely out-of-date document. I would like to say immediately that tomorrow, as far as we know, a new document already signed by Ukraine and Cyprus will be ratified by tomorrow. But what I want to say right now is that in this case, it's a deal. And because of the fact that tomorrow’s document is called a treaty, it is deceitful or lying because the convention is signed there. The convention doesn't need ratification, you can do it, it's a framework, as it were, a treaty that you can either join or you can't join. Because, in fact, even if you vote for this convention tomorrow. First of all, I'm saying once again that it's not literate, illiterate, it's not a convention, it's got to be a deal. In fact, nothing will change, Cyprus will still remain a black hole. Perhaps ours will be more cautious now after this financial disaster that struck Cyprus. Because I am convinced that today is exactly the time to denounce this treaty completely, once again, an outdated criminal treaty for Ukraine today. And an independent country has no right to tolerate it, to close their eyes on it. Because of this, I call on the people's deputies to denounce, it's smart, it's denunciation. I'm not going to touch on that question whether we should sign, let's say, a double taxation agreement is another issue. But what this agreement needs to be denounced is absolutely clear to everyone. And then life will show us how to live and how to be. But I'm convinced that Cyprus has become a country, a country of breeding, in fact, that it's rich in strangers, very often bloody, money, and so tired of ours, too, and I've had to pay for it. I call on you and I want to believe that many people from the Party of Regions, because the opposition I know, forgive for the tautology, it will vote for the denunciation, but I'm asking honest, decent people from the Party of the Regions, and they are there to vote for the denunciation of this document.
ParlaMint-UA_2013-06-05-m0.u212	What about the question? Please, let me ask you a question. People's deputies please sign up.
ParlaMint-UA_2013-06-05-m0.u213	Come on, access to the body is open.
ParlaMint-UA_2013-06-05-m0.u214	Lukyanov, Party of Regions, please.
ParlaMint-UA_2013-06-05-m0.u215	Dear colleague Yavorivsky. Something, guys, you're weak! [[B in m in s a l in]] Dear colleague Yavorivsky, you have just spoken of breaking the agreement with the Republic of Cyprus. But you must know that most. [[B in m in s a l in]] Dear colleague Yavorivsky, you should know that a number of companies around the world have used Cypriot jurisdiction to conduct trade operations. Today, when Cyprus ceased to perform this function, which it ceased to perform in international distribution, in international trade management. As you think.
ParlaMint-UA_2013-06-05-m0.u216	You wouldn't listen to the Javorovsky deputy question.
ParlaMint-UA_2013-06-05-m0.u217	No, I heard.
ParlaMint-UA_2013-06-05-m0.u218	Did you hear that? Answer me.
ParlaMint-UA_2013-06-05-m0.u219	No, so he finished his wife, and I didn't get the point.
ParlaMint-UA_2013-06-05-m0.u220	Let me finish.
ParlaMint-UA_2013-06-05-m0.u221	Do you not believe that the necessary mechanisms must be established in Ukraine in order to ensure that foreign jurisdiction is not required for trading, financial transactions, transactions in other markets? What do you think?
ParlaMint-UA_2013-06-05-m0.u222	So the question of deputy Lukyanov is whether or not to create such conditions in Ukraine in order not to exercise the jurisdiction of the same Cyprus. Of course I am. But you know what we have. We had free economic zones, we tried to make them, and they were very fast turning into black holes in Ukraine. I was an MP from the district where I was (Javorivski in Lviv) a major, where there was a seemingly free economic zone. What has been done in this free economic zone, may God have mercy! She was in Donetsk and stuff. We were trying to liberalize, as it were. Because of that, my dear colleague, of course, I am responsible for this. Let's work together, let's think, let's transform Ukraine, the state, with a transparent normal economy, with certain baits, so they don't run money on Cyprus, but they run here. Because they're from Cyprus, through Cypriot banks, they come back to us as if they were investments, but they're sucking juice out of Ukraine. Because you're right, but let's do it.
ParlaMint-UA_2013-06-05-m0.u223	Please, time's up. Have a seat. Ladies and gentlemen, I'd like to ask you two questions. Start today to consider this issue and continue tomorrow? Whether we should consider today and then you should vote in favour of the voting procedure. What will be the thoughts? "For." I give my word for the report. Please, Victor Mikhailovich Pinzenik.
ParlaMint-UA_2013-06-05-m0.u224	Dear Volodymira Vasilovich, honourable national deputies, introducing the draft Law on the Denunciation of the Agreement between the Soviet Union and the Republic of Cyprus, I knew very well that the Government signed the Convention on the Prevention of Double Taxation, which will be subject to tomorrow, would be considered for ratification. What is the motive for me introducing this bill? The fact is that a government - signed treaty is not good for Ukraine. I'm just going to make one argument, one fundamentally important moment. From time to time, we see in the press reports that some Ukrainian enterprise or some other asset is sold for a relatively small amount. Of course, they're sold through Cyprus. Of course, no taxes on the Ukrainian budget are paid. Ukraine has dozens of tax avoidance agreements with other countries, and these are normal standard agreements where such incomes are taxable. The only agreement where such taxation is not envisaged is the agreement that we are offered to ratify. It's not the only deviation. I called one of the most fundamental deviations. In this case, I would never want to accuse the government of signing such an agreement. Unfortunately, any government has found itself in a similar situation. Let me explain why. Having given the right to life in its time to a treaty between the Soviet Union and the Republic of Cyprus, Ukraine has put itself in an extremely unfavourable negotiating position. A new version of the agreement is needed by Ukraine. But our partners, they're in a state of affairs. How do you break this serious ball, how do you roll it to Ukraine? In 2008, I personally had to do a deal with Cyprus to avoid double taxation. At that time, the previous government prepared a completely normal, standard agreement. It was a normal agreement to sign. Four times the signing of this agreement was not postponed on the Ukrainian side. This was twice in 2007 and twice in 2008. In the end, our partners refused to sign a standard, normal draft agreement. Our government has proposed and submitted to Parliament at this time a draft law on the denunciation of the Agreement between the Soviet Union and Cyprus. The very fact of denunciation was a good stimulus, literally at the rapid pace of Cyprus’s finance minister came to Ukraine to seek acceptable compromise. Unfortunately, for some reason the law passed by the government on the denunciation of the Treaty with the Republic of Cyprus was not ratified. What we are proposing to deal with today’s situation. If the government really wanted to settle the tax problem with Cyprus, if that was in line with the wishes of the people's deputies, we would have to take two proper steps. Step one. The assembly will vote tomorrow. Do not ratify this convention. The other one. To vote today on the Law, or previous law, on the denunciation of the Agreement between the Soviet Union and the Republic of Cyprus. Such two steps a month will allow the preparation of a standard tax avoidance agreement very quickly. It's not going to be our interest anymore, it's going to be the interest, first of all, of our Cypriot partner. If we want tens of billions of dollars to work in Ukraine for Ukrainian citizens, for Ukraine's economy, for Ukraine's budget, instead of serving the economy of another country and the interests of a bunch of oligarchs, we should vote in favour of these two decisions.
ParlaMint-UA_2013-06-05-m0.u225	Thank you. I'm asking you to sign up for Victor Mikhailovich. Please, the Freedom Union, the Martink MP. Please, Igor Miroshnichenko
ParlaMint-UA_2013-06-05-m0.u226	Igor Miroshnichenko, the All-Ukrainian Freedom Union. Mr. Reporter, I would like to ask you, do you think, in this session room, where very many deputies have similar offshore accounts in Cyprus, do they vote in favour of ratifying this agreement for denunciation of this agreement? That's the first one. The second question. Here we have a red MP who has a TV channel called Gamma. Thus, two of his sons own part of the company, and the rest are registered in Cyprus. This worker for the rights of workers, so it's also called in this sessional offshore billroom, will vote in favour of denunciation of these contracts, or will it also benefit from these agreements, and will it continue to hide funds from the Ukrainian economy and the Ukrainian budget in Cyprus? Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-UA_2013-06-05-m0.u227	Ladies and gentlemen, we will be able to see the position of every national MP very quickly today, and this will be revealed as a result of the vote. I think from an economic point of view, what I'm saying is perfectly understandable. The language goes completely pragmatic things that benefit the country, for the benefit of the people, for the benefit of the budget. I'm going to say that this question of voting is more of a question of morality than of economics.
ParlaMint-UA_2013-06-05-m0.u228	Please, Fatherland faction, Odarchenko.
ParlaMint-UA_2013-06-05-m0.u229	Please pass the word to Mikola Tomenko.
ParlaMint-UA_2013-06-05-m0.u230	They passed it on to Tomenka.
ParlaMint-UA_2013-06-05-m0.u231	Victor Mikhailovich, you know the position of our faction, we will vote in favour of our colleague Vladimir Yavorowski's bill and we will support your bill, because it is essential that this affair is finally stopped. But I think that aside from the actual problems of the agreement, there's a problem that we're leaving behind what's been going on in the previous period. So I'll tell you how the author of the Ordinance on the need to hear a report on the use of budgetary resources to prepare for the Euro, which the Party of Regions is afraid to put to a vote that we have several teachers, one yoga teacher and one other instructor there, funded all of the Euros from Cyprus. We have most of the media in Cyprus. So don't you think we'd have to do a serious study of the state of the economy and the strategic objects that are somewhere in Cyprus today?
ParlaMint-UA_2013-06-05-m0.u232	This question has nothing to do with the subject, but I support the consideration of any issues where there is a basis for parliamentary response.
ParlaMint-UA_2013-06-05-m0.u233	Please, Party of Regions, national deputy of Lukyanov.
ParlaMint-UA_2013-06-05-m0.u234	Dear Victor Mikhailovich, I'd like to ask you a question. [[B in m in s a l in]] I want to ask you about changing our relationship with Cyprus. And now we're trying to break the deal that makes it possible to get the capital out of Ukraine. Do you consider it appropriate to work on the possibility of making agreements and establishing a special legal special jurisdiction in Ukraine that would allow additional funds to be involved in Ukraine? Do you think there is such a possibility or not? And the second question. Would that be appropriate or not?
ParlaMint-UA_2013-06-05-m0.u235	You know my special status as a moguler, so-called "plumbing regimes." They never give anything good because they discriminate against investors, they put them under different conditions. In our time, we had this attempt in one law to introduce an article called "offshore." a reservation, or as it was called, an offshore removal is certain. It didn't work. Because there are other reasons why money doesn't come here. And if we don't get rid of these reasons, we obviously don't expect to have an investment paradise. But when we talk about the Republic of Cyprus, I think that the lesson that the account owners recently learned was a good lesson, and today this country is not so attractive, because the risk of repeating these situations -- once they have done it, it might be an attempt to do it again. So I think maybe there'll be fewer supporters in this room to keep this abnormal for Ukraine, for the economy, for the banking sector.
ParlaMint-UA_2013-06-05-m0.u236	Thank you, sit down. A report from the deputy head of the Committee on Foreign Affairs Yuri Romanovich Miroshnicka, please.
ParlaMint-UA_2013-06-05-m0.u237	Thank you, Vladimir Vasilovich. Dear colleagues, honourable voters, I'm going to brief you on the position of the committee of profile in foreign affairs, which is that when these bills of denunciation were drafted, the procedure was violated, as defined by law. Therefore, the committee did not support the denunciation of these agreements and did not actually recommend voting in favour of these bills, there are two of them and there are powerful conclusions on both. Thank you for your attention. I'd like to make a statement.
ParlaMint-UA_2013-06-05-m0.u238	I beg you, is there a question? [[B in m in s a l in]] Yes, sign up for the question. I'm asking the Fatherland faction, Sobolev.
ParlaMint-UA_2013-06-05-m0.u239	Dear reporter, well, I understand that there are different political schedules on the committee. But tell me about a person who is familiar with the schemes that are being washed through Cyprus.
ParlaMint-UA_2013-06-05-m0.u240	I don't know him.
ParlaMint-UA_2013-06-05-m0.u241	Well, how come you're not familiar? Everyone's familiar with that. Now, please tell me, by putting your hand on your heart, you think that today's SKM company, Ahemtova, has announced the purchase of a Cypriot company that owns 92 percent of the Skretelekoma, I have a question: how much will Ahmetov pay in the state's budget after that? And what is this fund of state property of Ukraine that, in 2011, sold to the Cypriot President Yanukovich a company called Skretelek, a state company that owns state secrets, specialty and all. Now, do you think this is supposed to be the end or are we going to continue to pretend that nothing's going on? Thank you.
ParlaMint-UA_2013-06-05-m0.u242	Thank you, Mr. Sergei. I am absolutely convinced that this problem must be solved. It's not a committee decision, it's my point of view. In fact, it has already been mentioned in the statements of the draft bills that the Government of Ukraine has already submitted to the Supreme Council a draft agreement, a new agreement, with Cyprus, and that problem can be solved in the framework of this agreement. But as far as these bills are concerned, I reiterate that the solution to the problem must take place in a legal way and in a defined procedure. The translation of these covenants was to be added, and a number of formalities were to be maintained, and the positions of the ministries of profile were to be continued. When it comes to the approach itself, when national MPs propose to denounce international agreements, it is very controversial. And in the vast majority of countries the subject of the legislative initiative is either the head of state or government. That's why I actually think we should do something more balanced. Thank you.
ParlaMint-UA_2013-06-05-m0.u243	Please, Freedom Union, Cherniaków.
ParlaMint-UA_2013-06-05-m0.u244	Please pass the word to Igor Miroshnichenko.
ParlaMint-UA_2013-06-05-m0.u245	They passed it on to the game of Peacekeepers.
ParlaMint-UA_2013-06-05-m0.u246	Igor Miroshnichenko, the All-Ukrainian Freedom Union. Well, really, Mikola Tomenko supported me. The media Ukrainians are practically all now in offshore in Cyprus. And I, the honourable reporter, want to ask you one more question about the largest television company in Ukraine: the Inter Group. The whole of Ukraine knows that Mr. Horoshkowski, for two and a half billion dollars, as he announced, sold this group to companies, well, they're saying, to the head of the President's Administration. And the Ukrainian State didn't get a penny. And by the way, I've sent questions from the MPs about this. He never received it from the Ministry of Revenue and Congregations. How do you think the Ukrainian State suffered damage in this particular case when Ukraine's largest television company was sold to Cyprus and Ukraine accordingly did not receive a penny of taxes from this equipment. Thank you.
ParlaMint-UA_2013-06-05-m0.u247	Thank you, Mr. Igor, for asking. I'm gonna say it again. If you and I, as national deputies, do not consider ourselves obliged to obey the law when we take legislative initiatives, I think we cannot demand that we do so from Ukrainian citizens. Because you're talking about the problem, the problem of the Cyprus Offshore, which today is not subject to taxation in Ukraine because of the existence of this agreement. But the termination of this covenant or the signing of another covenant must take place in a legal manner. We had a discussion at the committee meeting, and most of the votes adopted that decision. But this decision comes from the normative base that we have today in the state. As for the transfer of ownership to media holdings, I am absolutely convinced that the head of the Administration, as a natural person, pays taxes and acts solely in a legitimate way. I can't tell him anywhere.
ParlaMint-UA_2013-06-05-m0.u248	Thank you. Have a seat. I'm moving on for 15 minutes. [[B in m in s a l in]] I've moved on. Today, let us speak out of factions, for tomorrow many questions need to be considered, and tomorrow we will make a decision. I'd like you to sign up for the factions. And tomorrow we'll give it to the deputies, and you'll all be speaking, yes. Here I am, Chechatov first, from the Party of Regions speaking.
ParlaMint-UA_2013-06-05-m0.u249	I'm asking "Freedom" to cast a voice. Voice, "Freedom"! Give me your voice! Dear Vladimir Vasilevich! Dear colleagues! We have considered the matter. The Committees, meetings of the Committees are now beginning. [[B in m in s a l in]] That's a big ask. Okay, okay. More voice! [[B in m in s a l in]] Please put to the vote and draw the line and release people to the committees. Because Committee meetings are beginning. And it's so clear who's going to vote. Thank you.
ParlaMint-UA_2013-06-05-m0.u250	Freedom Union, Igor Miroshnichenko, please.
ParlaMint-UA_2013-06-05-m0.u251	Please pass the word to the Head, please.
ParlaMint-UA_2013-06-05-m0.u252	We give the word to the People's Deputy Golovk. Please.
ParlaMint-UA_2013-06-05-m0.u253	Deputies! Mikhail Golovko, the All-Ukrainian Freedom Union. By supporting our faction, given the denunciation of the agreement between the U.S.R. and Cyprus, this is the right decision. Because believe me, the damage that we're getting today as a Ukrainian state without paying taxes on the budget, avoiding taxes, double taxation, that's huge. Experts estimate that more than $72 billion has been exported from Ukraine in just two recent years! This is more than a few times from Ukraine’s budget. It's a huge sum that was going to go to the social needs of the Ukrainian population. To repair roads, to build schools, hospitals, gardens, other social goods, to pay wages, pensions, scholarships! Unfortunately, this is not all because today the oligarchs, who make up most of the Party of Regions, do not want to pay taxes to the Ukrainian budget. They do not want to pay to feed their people. They're robbing the Ukrainian state, extorting billions, capitals from Ukraine. At the same time, they are enriched on the bones of the Ukrainian people. That's why we, the faction of the All-Ukrainian Freedom Union, support this, this determination. Most importantly, we have registered Bill 1248, which aims at making compulsory payments from all offshore funds to Ukraine and for at least 3 months. The bill has been on the committee for several months now, which is deliberately prolonged and uncontested. Because he doesn't want to be seen in Parliament. But in our bill, we force you to pay taxes, to collect taxes into the Ukrainian budget. And those companies that refuse to do so are returning their assets to the benefit of the state! So we demand that our bill be considered so that we can adopt this law, that taxes are paid in Ukraine and that those billions work for the Ukrainian people. It's enough for regional deputies to rob the Ukrainian state. It's time to pay taxes. And if you refuse to do so, you will be responsible. It's consistent with what law we have to adopt. So we urge you all to support and show a real position. Who is in the interests of the Ukrainian State, the interests of the Ukrainian society, the Ukrainian people, and who is lobbying and defending the oligarchs. And that's why you have to show your faces today. Turning to a bourgeois Communist faction, I mean. That by covering up the beautiful slogans, you vote in favour of this decree and be honest, not playing a double game, voting for the bills, voting for the oligarch laws, working and earning their money. So vote and be honest in front of your constituents, not hypocrites. Glory to Ukraine!
ParlaMint-UA_2013-06-05-m0.u254	Faction of the Ukrainian Company, National Deputy Martinyuk.
ParlaMint-UA_2013-06-05-m0.u255	First of all, a few legal regulatory remarks. First. Please look at both of these bills: 0002, 0002-1 -- they're absolute twins. Not only in the title, not only in the text of the bill itself, but even in the explanatory notes. Knowing the authors of the first and second bills, the question arises: Who was involved in plagiarism? They're completely unalterable. They're copied to each other. That's the first question. The second question. You may have seen the conclusions of our Committee on the Rules of Procedure, which clearly points to violations of the Rules of Procedure for the preparation of these bills for their consideration in the session room. Why did no one else prepare them as prescribed by the Rules? And they just threw away, I'm sorry, a pee-pee to make the political games here. Moreover, those who presented the bills, not the first day in Parliament, are very familiar with parliamentary work. Why, then, did they fail to do so? And here I have a comment to profile committees in general. Why didn't they say so? What is it about being misformed, not being considered in the session room? And one more question for all the lawyers who are in the session room who are outside the session hall. Give it to me, please. the answer to the question. Is Ukraine today the successor of the Union of Soviet Socialist Republics? Perhaps the answer is quite clear: the legal succession of divorce, divorce, signature, and then the leadership of Ukraine took on the only of the 15 former republics – the Russian Federation is such a successor. So from a legal point of view, we have no right to denounce agreements that we have no relation to. [[(Noise in the hall) (Applause)]] And one more thing. Especially, Teryohin, who screams, and he's been assisted by other representatives who have been in government for the past 20 years, please give me an answer to the question, "Why didn't you create such tax conditions in 20 years that you didn't go to Cyprus and there was taxation?" Because you used these conditions. And the last. Legally speaking, what the Cabinet of Ministers has introduced is to ratify the Cyprus-Ukraine Double Tax Agreement. And don't draw to the Soviet Union.
ParlaMint-UA_2013-06-05-m0.u256	People's MP Mochkov, impact faction.
ParlaMint-UA_2013-06-05-m0.u257	Please pass the word to Valentine.
ParlaMint-UA_2013-06-05-m0.u258	Please.
ParlaMint-UA_2013-06-05-m0.u259	Dear Mr. Head, distinguished national MPs, citizens of Ukraine! In fact, this room is now discussing whether billions of dollars will be cut off from the Ukrainian budget. Those who don't know these numbers have been sounded by the head of their tax administration, and now one of the members of the government of the Party of Regions. The price of the question is 50 billion dollars a year. Dear citizens, if someone tells you and lies that it's impossible to raise pensions, it's the people who are violating corruption in this country. Yes, they have very expensive lawyers. You can hear them today, they're talking about some legal stuff or incompetence. The Vitaly Klitschka faction tells you frankly that the honest answer is to break this deal. One. The other one. Organize an investigation into money laundering, that is, stealing your money from the budget and returning it to Ukraine. International mechanisms are: Fatf, the Federal Bureau of Investigation, the Russian Federation, and all of our neighbors who are going to help us do this. And the third moment. The breakup of this agreement means the mandatory publication of all those extremely rich and not very owners who hid the national money in these offshores. That is why you hear such opposition, which is why there are so many lies around this issue. Our basic position as Vitali Klitschka's team. Every national MP who is honest must vote. Every Ukrainian citizen to whom the deputies are supposed to report should hear and check that his deputy from the district or from the political power he voted for showed that he did not steal money from the budget and was willing to return that money to the Ukraine budget. That's why we encourage and express in principle the position of the entire Vitali Klitschka Faction. To vote, to stop stealing money from the budget, and to return it to the economy of Ukraine. Thank you for your attention.
ParlaMint-UA_2013-06-05-m0.u260	Thank you. The Fatherland faction, the Fedoruk People's Deputy.
ParlaMint-UA_2013-06-05-m0.u261	Please give the floor to the national MP, Alexander Turkinov.
ParlaMint-UA_2013-06-05-m0.u262	Please.
ParlaMint-UA_2013-06-05-m0.u263	Turkish, Fatherland. Respectable national MPs, each country that respects its economy, have a list of countries called offshore countries with which agreements are subject to additional scrutiny and additional taxation. Cyprus is a typical offshore state. Even after their accession to the European Union, they completely left behind a tax evasion scheme, by way of, in fact, a zero rate of income tax and capital increase. They do this through the base of old companies, explaining that the law has no reverse power, and the old companies have all these offshore privileges. And the banking crisis that broke out in Cyprus is the reason why this country refused, despite the European Union's demand, to follow a pattern of normal civilised taxation. Although this is known to all economists, those dealing with taxation, finance, in Ukraine continue to hide the offshore scheme with Cyprus. All oligarchs are either Ukrainian or now have companies in Cyprus. All the equipment, the huge billions, is used by these structures. And the current authorities are strangely continuing to close their eyes. Because their accounts are in Cyprus, and their companies are in Cyprus. And today they're telling us that there's no funding in the state for basic -- for treatment, there's no funding in the state for medicines for children who die. I won't! There are no pension funds, and the retirement age is rising. At the same time, about $70 billion was produced in two years because of offshore schemes. This amount is equivalent to the sum of Ukraine’s external debt. And it's blasphemy to say that there's no money when the money is clear where it is. Clearly, specifically fixed, it's a fact, and against that fact they can't say anything. Next, dear friends. When here, from this rostrum, my colleague Teryohin twice made a motion for a vote, our government of Yulia Timoshenko made a proposal for the denunciation of this agreement. The party of regions and Communists did not vote because their accounts are there. And today, when you say you don't have the budget, you have the mechanism to get it. And the vote for the denunciation of this agreement will clearly identify who wants to finance the budget, who wants to finance the social sector, who wants to tear Ukraine's economy out of the crisis, and who wants to hide their money in offshore areas. We demand, the Fatherland faction, to immediately vote in favour of the laws that have been passed, and to put a dot on these offshore dirty schemes. Thank you for your attention. Glory to Ukraine!
ParlaMint-UA_2013-06-05-m0.u264	Ladies and gentlemen, there are three minutes and a proposal has been made to vote. And then. Now Turkinov has made an immediate motion to put it to the vote. I'll put it to a vote. [[B in m in s a l in]] Turkey's proposal is to put it to the vote immediately. I am voting on the draft Act on the Denunciation of the Agreement between the Government of the Union of Soviet Socialist Republics and the Government of the Republic of Cyprus on the avoidance of double taxation of income and property from 29 October 1982 on the basis of [[B in m in s a l in]] Please vote. The MPs are all speaking. There is no need for discussion after 15 minutes. [[14:14:12]] For 113 The factions. I'm betting on the second draft. Draft Act (0021) on the denunciation of the Agreement between the Government of the Union of Soviet Socialist Republics and the Government of the Republic of Cyprus on the avoidance of double taxation of income and property from 29 October as a basis. Please vote. [[14:14:57]] For-123 Against – 0 held – 3, did not vote – 107. The laws are rejected. The factions, please. Ladies and gentlemen, at 3 p.m. in the Supreme Council of Ukraine there will be parliamentary hearings, we need to prepare a hall for this. Therefore, the morning session of the Supreme Council of Ukraine is closed. Tomorrow at 10 o'clock, we'll continue our work.
