ParlaMint-UA_2013-09-03-m0.u1	Good morning, distinguished national deputies, invited and guests of the Supreme Council! I'm asking the people's deputies to prepare for registration. Turn on the "Race" system. [[10:02:18]] There were 385 national deputies registered in the hall. Honourable National Deputies and Sharps of the Supreme Council of Ukraine, the opening ceremony of the third session of the Supreme Council of Ukraine of the seventh vocation is attended by President Viktor Fedorovich Janukovic of Ukraine. [[Applause]] Dear National Deputies, at the opening ceremony of the third session of the Supreme Council of Ukraine on the seventh vocation, are present: Prime Minister of Ukraine Mikola Janović Azarov and members of the government. [[Applause]] The present leaders of the judicial branch, the presence of the officials elected by the Supreme Council, appoints or agrees to appoint them to office: the Head of the Supreme Council of the Autonomous Republic of Crimea and the heads of the district councils, the leaders. [[Applause]] [[Applause]] The session was attended by the heads of the European Parliament’s Monitoring Mission, former President of the Republic of Poland, Alexander Kwasniewski, and former President of the European Parliament, Pet Cox. [[Applause]] [[Applause]] The heads of diplomatic representation of foreign states and other officials present. [[Applause]] Honourable National Deputies, in accordance with article 83 of the Constitution of Ukraine, the third session of the Supreme Council of Ukraine on the seventh vocation declared open. [[The Moon of the Hymn of Ukraine]] Ladies and gentlemen, welcome to Ukraine's President Viktor Fedorovich Janukovic.
ParlaMint-UA_2013-09-03-m0.u2	Honourable Head of the Supreme Council of Ukraine, distinguished national deputies, dear compatriots! Today we are opening the third session of the Supreme Council of the Seventh Assembly. A new political season begins. And I hope that the second half of 2013 will be a time of political understanding, of the interaction of fruitful and timely decisions. Unfortunately, the previous session of the Supreme Council was rather a time of lost opportunities. As a result, we are losing the pace of the reforms we took back in 2010-2012. But I am sure that the Ukrainian Parliament will be able to unite efforts around problems that, without exaggeration, depend on Ukraine’s fate. I propose that all parliamentary forces find understanding of the two key strategic tasks: the first and most relevant issue for this session is the adoption of a package of laws necessary for further progress in the European direction. This is a homework to be done by the Ukrainian Parliament before the Vilnius Summit so that Ukraine can sign an association agreement with the European Union and an extended free trade agreement with the EU. I would like to point out immediately that attempts to counter cooperation on the European vector and cooperation with our strategic partners, the Russian Federation and the countries of the European-Asian partnership, are unfounded. From a strategic perspective, the signing of the Association Agreement and the Free Trade Zone will open up new opportunities for mutually beneficial cooperation and further convergence with our strategic partners in the Euro-Asian region. Success at the Vilnius Summit should be prepared. And the Supreme Council has a significant role to play in this process. The Association with the European Union needs no power or opposition, the Association needs Ukraine. This is primarily an incentive to further reform the accelerated modernization of social standards. We need to speed up the implementation of the reform agenda, including the completion of reforms in the judicial system, the prosecutor's office and internal affairs. I propose to the Supreme Council to support the relevant bill package as soon as possible. We must take all necessary measures together to effectively introduce the new Criminal Procedure Code, the legislation on lawyers and the national preventive mechanism against torture. Parliament should ensure the adoption of the laws provided for in the elaboration plan by the European Union of visa regimes for Ukraine. The transparency of government finances, including the expansion of the function of the Court of Auditors, needs to be substantially enhanced. We need to continue to improve national legislation on the fight against corruption, using the most effective world approaches, particularly those expressed in the GRECO Recommendations. The tasks ahead of the Vilnius summit are complex and extensive, but we have both the time and the power to solve them. Dear colleagues! The second important strategic task that requires joint government and opposition is the implementation of the modernisation strategy to accelerate economic and social reforms. Yes, we have some economic gains, we have significantly reduced inflation. Since the beginning of the year, prices have risen by only 0.1 percent, and in the past year, prices have dropped by 0.2. Over the last three years, wages have risen by almost 60 percent on average and pensions by more than 40. We have increased our trust in the national currency and the Ukrainian banking system. Since the beginning of this year, the population's gross deposits have increased by a quarter, over the last few years, we've had record crops. At the same time, there are many problems in the Ukrainian economy that we need to work together. The main sources of problems are, above all, the continuation of the global economic crisis. The corresponding state of the commodity markets and the high price of the import gas that we have as a result of the 2009 contract. The first problem is the decline in industrial production and the corresponding decline in the growth rate of the domestic gross product. The Cabinet of Ministers of Ukraine has prepared a programme to revitalize the economy, whose implementation needs working together with the Supreme Council, and I hope that Parliament will be adequately supported. The second problem that requires a common solution is the lack of completion of social policy reforms. Despite the difficult economic situation in the last two years, we have managed to raise the average wage in Ukraine by almost a quarter. We are launching fundamental reforms in the social and humanitarian sectors. I call on Parliament to participate more actively in the development of social reforms, because their consistency and success is the path to European social standards, to a new quality of life for Ukrainian citizens. I expect the Supreme Council to adopt, no later than December 2013, the Health Services Act, which will improve the quality and accessibility of medical care. I also ask you separately to make changes to this year’s state budget and to provide for the payment of medical aid to doctors. The right to adequate medical supplements has already been provided by law since October 1, 2013. This year we announced new social initiatives: "Children are the future of Ukraine" aimed at supporting and developing children. These initiatives are already being reconstructed and new preschool facilities are being opened. Since the beginning of the year, they have created more than 20,000 additional places. At the same time, government social assistance for low - income families with children remains insufficient. Please accept the changes to the 2013 State Budget without delay and increase the so-called "guaranteed minimum" for children from low-income families. The third problem is the need for a qualitatively new role of the state in the management of economic processes. In particular, the government's task in the market economy is not simply to collect taxes and redistribute funds; it is necessary to build conditions for business development, a favourable investment climate, to introduce financial growth instruments, including at the regional level, to help exporters enter new markets. I call on the Supreme Council and the Government to implement an import strategy. And the focus here is not on raising the rate of duty, but on increasing incentives for a national producer. I also entrust the Cabinet of Ministers with significantly expanding the component of strategic planning in the economy, which should provide for analysis of economic threats and early preparations for their neutralization. Ladies and gentlemen, the fall of the parliamentary session is a time for closing the main financial law of Ukraine for the following year. The basic requirements of the President of Ukraine for the State Budget project for the following year are defined, particularly in my next letter to Parliament. We are confident that the government and the national deputies in the State Budget 2014 will have to draw the right conclusions from the budgetary difficulties we had this year. Increasing the volume of public investment will be a powerful impetus for economic growth and will also contribute to the modernization of the economic complex. Local self - government should have a sound financial basis, since most of the important current problems of citizens are solved at the local level. In addition to ensuring the fullness and timeliness of the government’s recalculation of grants and subsidies, there is a need to find ways to increase the local government’s own income. The structure of social expenditure should also be optimized. Low social standards are linked not only to insufficient budgetary expenditure but to an inefficient distribution. Particular attention should be paid to increasing transparency in public finances, ensuring that each budget bracelet is used in a targeted way. In his time, British Prime Minister Winston Churchill said that politicians care for future elections and government leaders for future generations. I believe that this room is mainly home to government officials who have sufficient wisdom and responsibility. In the lives of every nation, every nation has moments when the political elite of the country must forget the party colors and mention the colors of the national flag, forget the party quarrels, and remember that we are all Ukrainian citizens, part of the great nation. This reminds us of the age - old dates we celebrated this year and which we will celebrate in the following year. One of the key events of this year was the 1025th anniversary of the baptism of Russia, a celebration of the rebirth of Christian values that teach us to meet modern challenges, not through confrontation, but through association and consolidation. Next year we will celebrate 200 years from the birthday of the Great Cobzar, Taras Grigorovich Shevchenk. And I am convinced that we are all wise enough to gather around the ideas of a free and prosperous Ukraine that he practiced. I am confident that the adoption of the package of laws necessary for the signing of the Association Agreement will be a decisive step not only on Ukraine's path to Europe but also on the road to building Europe in Ukraine. As President of Ukraine, I support every initiative aimed at achieving political understanding and cooperation in the positions of the Supreme Council. I wish all the deputies fruitful work in the name and for the benefit of the Ukrainian State. Thank you for your attention.
ParlaMint-UA_2013-09-03-m0.u3	Ladies and gentlemen, let's thank the President of Ukraine, the government in charge of the Prime Minister, all those who participated in the opening ceremony. [[Applause]] And in thirty minutes, we'll continue the session, calling it a break.
ParlaMint-UA_2013-09-03-m0.u4	Invite the national deputies to the hall. People's deputies please sit down. We'll continue our work.
ParlaMint-UA_2013-09-03-m0.u5	Dear national deputies and guests of the Supreme Council of Ukraine! The speech is given to the Head of the Supreme Council of Ukraine, Vladimir Vasilovich Rybak.
ParlaMint-UA_2013-09-03-m0.u6	Dear National Deputies! Dear guests of the Supreme Council! I welcome you all to the finale of your holidays and your return to work. It is to the work that our voters are waiting for, that is, the whole of Ukraine, which requires a period of future responsible decisions. I hope you'll agree that this is what our corporate, professional and political honour requires. Because according to recent sociological studies, the population of Ukraine recognizes the authority of the Supreme Council as the lowest, compared with other higher branches of government and social institutions. Today we start our sessional work for the third time. And soon it will be a year from the day we took an oath of allegiance to the people’s deputies to Ukraine. The period of our political discipleship remains behind. And we have four months of sessional work ahead of us to prove to the people of Ukraine our professionalism, our political maturity, the scale of our national thinking and the sense of responsibility for the fate of our nation. We are opening the third session of the seventh vocation in a period that will determine the future of Ukraine and its place in the world for the coming decades. Three months from now, Ukraine will find itself in the epicenter of a political story that can be boldly attributed to geopolitical phenomena. By the end of November, Vilnius will have signed not only an average international treaty – the Agreement on the Association of Ukraine with the European Union, but a history of an independent Ukraine in a broad European context. The decision of such calibre, its complexity and its contribution to the further development of the State of Ukraine has not yet been taken. As the Freedom Summit approaches, our sense of responsibility for the following political decisions will grow, the potential political, economic, humanitarian consequences of these decisions will be more clearly defined. The achievement of a real association, the introduction of European standards of living in Ukraine today depends primarily on our work together. In Brussels, it is rightly believed that the Supreme Council is now playing a crucial role in the fact that it has become possible to sign an association agreement. So the time has come when the Supreme Council, its constituency must finally catch up with the society and the President of Ukraine and realize clearly why the people have chosen us and given us the mandate to make decisions in the interests of millions of people. It's the only way we can restore the people's trust in the highest legislative authority, restore their respect for the term "national MP." During the last session, we were able to take certain steps on this path, despite the well-known political opposition Parliament adopted 10 important legal acts in the context of the next signing of the Association Agreement. During the third session, there are seven more bills to be discussed in Parliament that are necessary for the signing of the Association Agreement between Ukraine and the European Union. For the next two months, we should focus on such important bills as the reform of the prosecutor's office, the judicial system and the improvement of electoral legislation, which is extremely relevant and necessary in the light of the building of a social, legal, democratic state and civil society. By reforming, Ukraine has solved the problems of past and present civilization, demonstrating political maturity and constructive work in the name of Ukraine and the Ukrainian people. Honourable national MPs, the establishment and development of Ukraine as a democratic, social and legal state, where man is recognized as the highest social value, and his rights and freedoms determine the main activity of the State, objectively requires the continuation of strategies and reforms initiated by the President of Ukraine. Today's programme of Presidential Reforms "Affordable Society, a Competitive Economy, an Effective State" is the only possible key to successfully modernising all spheres of Ukrainian social life without any alternative. This is a strategy for a breakthrough in society into the future, which should be based on scientifically sound approaches to determining the prospects and priorities for the development of the Ukrainian legislative system. Parliament's legislative work is to be guided by the 2013 Annual Communication from the President of Ukraine to the Supreme Council, which sets out the main priorities, objectives and objectives of public policy in virtually all spheres of social life that require the implementation of the relevant legislative acts. Of course, the solution to this task should be a key role for the Supreme Council as the only body of legislative authority to be empowered by the definition of the principles of internal and foreign policy, by the adoption of laws. I'm stressing this, because only chapter one of the draft agendas for the day-to-day session, which is the question that is fully prepared for plenary sessions, is 494 documents. The second chapter, which covers bills to be prepared and processed for the session, includes almost twice as many questions as 946. Generally speaking, we need to work on almost 1,500 draft legislative acts that are under consideration by the Committees of the Supreme Council of Ukraine. This billing array is actually our common debt to the electorate. This is the inadequacy that has been left to us since the second session, as a result of endless opposition, including violent and political strife rather than fruitful labor for the country. I will stand on a particular issue that has become particularly visible under these conditions, the role and importance of parliamentary committees. In order to further stimulate the pace of legislative work, I plan a number of initiatives in the near future to strengthen the legislative role of permanent parliamentary committees. As we know, laws on the Rules and Committees of the Supreme Council of Ukraine clearly define the leading legislative, organizational, and supervisory role of the committees. In my opinion, all these three functions of committees must be reloaded and mobilized to the maximum. The Parliamentary Committee is a kind of parliamentary sieve that requires inadequacies and non-current bills, and it is also a non-analytical centre for the effectiveness of law enforcement in Ukraine. We have to admit that until we optimize the work of the Supreme Council committees, the benefit of Parliament will be low. Since, according to the Constitution of Ukraine, the work of the committees is coordinated by the Head of the Supreme Council, I intend in particular to introduce into practice the direct participation of the Head and his deputies in the work of the responsible meetings of the main parliamentary committees. It is time to raise all the activities of the parliamentary committees to the high level and broad powers they have set forth in the Act on Rules of Procedure of the Supreme Council of Ukraine. Ladies and gentlemen, I will stop at the front lines that require maximum mobilization of legislative escorts from the Supreme Council. In the field of constitutional legislation, we have to amend electoral legislation to ensure the real political rights of Ukrainian citizens. Some aspects of the organization and activities of public authorities, such as the Cabinet of Ministers, the Constitutional Court of Ukraine, the Central Electoral Commission and local self-government, are also normalized daily. In addition, under a separate procedure for the inclusion in the agenda of the session, we should consider and decide on a bill amending the Constitution of Ukraine on strengthening the guarantees of the independence of judges, which has come from the President of Ukraine and which has been set for immediate consideration by the Supreme Council of Ukraine. The implementation of a number of other provisions of the Constitution of Ukraine is also ongoing. For example, this refers to the legislative regulation of the right of citizens to meet peacefully, unarmedly, to hold assemblies, rallyings, demonstrations, and restrictions on the exercise of this right. The priorities of the third session of the Supreme Council should also be to close the work on the bills adopted in the first reading. These are, in particular, draft laws amending certain laws that regulate the participation of the public in the formation and implementation of public policy, the resolution of matters of local importance, the laws to amend a number of laws. The legislative formation of responsible State social policy should be an absolute priority for the next session of Parliament. Despite the specific obstacles to the planning of the second session, the Supreme Council has achieved substantial work, provided legislative reform of basic areas of social development, service of pension insurance systems and social support. It is estimated that 18 bills have been prepared for consideration in the third session, with a clear social orientation. The main focus in this area is the creation of legal preconditions to ensure the well-being of citizens at an adequate standard of living, for a fair distribution of the social product, for the overall development of the individual. And today, the president of our nation stressed this. So without a well-balanced, legislatively defined strategy for the growth of citizens' well-being, it will not be possible to overcome social inequality, achieve social consolidation, create a legal foundation for systemic social reform, form an organisational structure and mechanism for implementing it – our legislative duty to Ukrainian society, the potential contribution of Parliament to the social strategy of the President of Ukraine. The third urgent block of legislation during the new session is to further improve financial legislation that regulates social relations in the area of budget, taxation and banking. Of course, the first direction is the timely and full legislative provision of the budgetary process, the adoption of the country's main financial and economic document for the following year. We simply have no right, as before, to drown in infertile political debates time for the adoption of the 2014 Budget Act, which will have a negative impact on the country's further reform. I don't think there's any need to continue to comment on this truth, because it's clear to everyone that the budget and balanced budgetary relations are the basis for the country's economic development, the economic framework next year. I will focus only on legislative initiatives in the budgetary field that are of paramount importance. This is a question of improving the order of external borrowing, sorting out regulations for the provision of state and local guarantees to ensure the country’s debt security. Tax legislation initiatives in the first city should include proposals for simplification of tax administration procedures, timely adjustment of the provisions of the Ukrainian Tax Code to create tax incentives for overall economic growth. The legislative issue of ensuring the stability of Ukraine’s banking system remains ongoing. So we have to systematize legislation on banks and banking. Also, at the legislative level, public control and transparency of public procurement procedures should continue to be strengthened. A critical problem remains the need to introduce a transparent mechanism for the formation of economically sound housing and utility tariffs for all consumer groups. Today’s electricity tariff system provides for cross-subsidization of some consumers to others, resulting in negative effects on the economy as a whole. Given the country's acute energy problem, the urgent need for rational use and the economy of energy resources, the development of our energy independence, we need to consider and take initiatives at the legislative level for the development of alternative energy sources. My fellow Members, I believe that the third session of the seventh call to parliament will receive a special high assessment in the population of Ukraine and international expert circles if it is able to complete the reform of the country's criminal and procedural legislation. I'm not going to decrypt, we've already talked about these issues. A few words about the legislation of the humanitarian sphere, which also requires updating and our attention. First of all, it is the area of higher education, culture, health - care legislation, including a clear definition of the rights of patients and medical personnel, taking into account the best practices in the world. Ukraine enters into the times of responsible government decisions and high expectations. Society is looking forward to a decisive change, to the positive results of legislation-based economic and social reforms, to a direct dialogue with the government, to a visible improvement in the lives of the Ukrainian people, to the new European prospects of our nation. We remain with you, honourable national deputies, the only way to improve our thinking about ourselves among the electorate, to be worthy of their expectations and expectations, to be worthy of our people. And then the Supreme Council should become an important and operational, legislative support for the entire political system of Ukraine. Thank you for your attention.
ParlaMint-UA_2013-09-03-m0.u7	Dear National Deputies! You know, we're working in a session mode this Sunday according to the calendar master, so we're going to look at the agenda for the day session. On July 23, 2013, the Central Election Commission registered the National Deputy of Ukraine, Vadim Vladislavovich Novinski, who was elected to the midterm election of the People’s Deputy on July 7, in the 1-seat constituency 224. In accordance with article 79 of the Constitution of Ukraine, before taking office, national deputies take an oath before the Supreme Council of Ukraine. Therefore, the National Deputy of Ukraine, Novinsky Vadim Vladislavovic, is invited to make an oath to the rostrum.
ParlaMint-UA_2013-09-03-m0.u8	I swear allegiance to Ukraine. I pledge to defend Ukraine’s sovereignty and independence by all my actions, to take care of the welfare and welfare of the Ukrainian people. I vow to abide by the Constitution and the laws of Ukraine, to carry out my duties in the interests of all fellow countrymen. Thank you.
ParlaMint-UA_2013-09-03-m0.u9	Let us welcome the new national deputy and wish him success. Dear National Deputies! Announcement. In accordance with article 60 of the Supreme Council of Ukraine's Rules, it is reported that the Supreme Council of Ukraine has set up the seventh vocation of an interfractional MP association, the Open Public Platform. The heads of this association elected Ukrainian national deputies Yuri Romanović and Shevchenko Andrija Vitaliyovich. We want to be productive in this union. In accordance with Rule 25 of the Rules, we have 30 minutes Tuesday for the presentations of authorized members of the MPs with proposals, announcements, statements, and messages. So I'm asking the factions to sign up. The statement is given to the representative of the "Freedom" faction of the People's Deputy Oleg Tegnibok. Please.
ParlaMint-UA_2013-09-03-m0.u10	Oleg Tuggnibok, faction of the All-Ukrainian Freedom Union. Because we just heard the President speak for the first time in a year and a half. Finally, they came to us in the Ukrainian Parliament. They said there'd be a dialogue. And no dialogue came out. There was just a monologue and a handout to the Supreme Council of Ukraine. And in fact, the President, speaking of Euro-integration, hypocritically, would have to hand out his faction -- the Party of Regions, which has destroyed and gradually destroys all of Ukraine's Euro-integration aspirations. Please tell me, do they want to reform the judicial system? Do they want to introduce a reform of the law enforcement system? Is it important for them today to adopt such bills as could make Ukrainians richer, develop, and have tomorrow’s prospects? Similarly, representatives of the current majority, representatives of the Party of Regions and Communists, are destroying the Euro-Integration Direction for the Ukrainian State. For them, talking about European integration is just a situational business interest. They're actually protecting their billions in offshore areas, and they want to do that by sort of integrating into Europe. For us, for the opposition and for the All-Ukrainian Freedom Union, the protection of millions of Ukrainians is a Euro-integration direction. We understand very well why Ukrainian nationalists today, why the All-Ukrainian Freedom Association today stands for a European integration path and fights for Ukraine to get a positive response in November of the month and an association has been signed for Ukraine's accession to European society. The goal and motivation is only one of the most important motivations: our entry into Europe will make it impossible to sign any treaties with the Customs Union, to sign any agreements with Russia today, and our password today, the main slogan: "Get away from Moscow!".. And the only thing the current party of power knows is how to destroy everything and destroy everything. I would like to inform you, Your Honor, that we are now sitting with you, and our colleague, National Deputy of Ukraine, Edward Leonov, who received physical injuries after having communicated with Berkut during the illegal session of the Kiev City Council on August 19th is on the operating table. And these are the consequences of this abuse, these are the consequences of this conflict of law enforcement agencies, which, instead of fighting the crime, they are fighting against the opposition forces today, fighting against the common Ukrainian people. But not only is the party of power today demonstrating its integration aspirations, you see how they introduce what they call freedom of speech. God, you, my God, how many muds, how much dirt has been poured out on the All-Ukrainian Freedom Union lately. I'm looking at television yesterday, and I'm terrified of what lies, which cynicism is about me and our political party, we hear on overpowered television channels. Come on, you guys! But the presidential campaign hasn't started yet! Is it freedom of speech for you that is the freedom to destroy your political opponents? I think that the people of Ukraine, I think that Ukrainian society will be literate and properly appraised of who is who today and in the Ukrainian government, and what direction should we build for tomorrow. Today, there is an enormous danger of war by the Russian Federation, the Kremlin, Moscow, against Ukraine. And it's not just a trade war that we haven't heard the reaction of either the President or Parliament or many Ukrainian leaders. Note that Russia has recently led a religious war against Ukraine, ongoing inspections by Patriarch Cyril here and efforts to build a so-called "Russian peace" against Ukraine, the Kremlin's efforts today not to allow Ukraine to sign an association with Europe. As Russia today wages an energy war against Ukraine, today it is waged by a humanitarian war. It is worth mentioning only all the apprehension of the Kremlin that has been established in the government of Ukraine and in the Ukrainian Parliament. It is worth mentioning, though, the Ukrainianophobic minister of tobacco education, or the 148 traitors of the native deputies of Moscow’s apprehension, which the clowns wrote to the Polish Seima. Society is a great disgrace to the present Ukrainian Parliament. And we realize that these are our steps, the Euro-Integration Steps today, this is the only real chance to get away from Moscow once and for all. What should the authorities do today? The government was supposed to protect national interests. The government should protect the Ukrainian nation. The government would have to lead politics from both the outside and the inside, which would actually be in the interest of Ukrainian national interests. To this day, the language law has not been repealed. Disgusting language law that leads to speculation and tension in Ukrainian society. The party of power today does not vote in favour of the celebration of the 1980s of Holodomor in Ukraine, which is a great tragedy of the Ukrainian nation. Is that not a disgrace? And so, society, we are now, I'm addressing the entire Ukrainian society, we should not pay attention to the glimmering of the present power. As Shevchenko said, "Fight, fight!" And his intolerance must be combated by the regime that has led Ukraine to crisis. And we'll win together. And Ukraine will be in Europe. And Ukraine will be a rich and big country. Glory to Ukraine!
ParlaMint-UA_2013-09-03-m0.u11	He is invited to the floor by the representative of the "Fatherland" faction. National deputy Arsenius Yatzenuk. Please.
ParlaMint-UA_2013-09-03-m0.u12	Mr. Golovo, honourable Ukrainian national deputies, would like to outline the tasks facing the Ukrainian Parliament and the Ukrainian opposition for the next four months. I am sorry that Viktor Janukovic came to Parliament and, rather than making a clear plan of action for Ukraine to become a member of the European Union, showed, to say the least, economic and political incompetence. But this is not about Yanukovic, but about the fate of Ukraine and the future of our country in the future European family. Two questions are on the agenda of Ukraine’s day. The first is the signing of the Agreement with the European Union. The second is to overcome the economic crisis, overcome unemployment, raise pensions and pay. In order for Ukraine to sign the Agreement with the European Union, much must be done. Sadly, there is not much time left. The point is that during the four plenary weeks, the President and the government through the Supreme Council of Ukraine should adopt a series of bills aimed at bringing Ukraine closer to the European Union. The three key parameters that the Council of the European Union has set before Ukraine as preconditions for the signing of this Agreement are unfortunately not resolved to date. Let me remind you, first of all, that this is about stopping the political persecution and liberating Julia Timoshenko. Victor Janukovic did not say a word today about how this requirement would be fulfilled. The other one. Adoption of Ukraine's new Procuratorial Act and amendment of the judiciary legislation. We look forward to the conclusion of the Venice Commission, and we stress separately that the Ukrainian Public Prosecutor's Office should stop being a place to earn money and become a body that protects the rights and interests of citizens. and, following the conclusions of the European Commission, the Ukrainian opposition will be ready to vote in favour of the law that meets European standards. The third is the question of elections. Regrettably, today’s session of the Supreme Council of Ukraine does not have any law aimed at European integration, including legislation aimed at holding elections in five troubled districts, where victory was stolen from opposition candidates, including the election of the mayor of Kiev and the Kiev City Council. Even in Moscow, for the first time in ten years, the mayor of Moscow was elected, and in Kiev, Viktor Yanukovic and the Party of Regions are afraid to lose these elections. So the three questions that we expected from the President of Ukraine, unfortunately, remained unanswered. Surprised by the President's position on the real conflict between Ukraine and Russia. It's not a trade war, it's an encroachment of the Russian Federation on the sovereign right of the Ukrainian state and the Ukrainian people to determine where we're going, who we're going to be, and where we're going to join. Our Russian neighbors, unfortunately too much, do not act as partners. But the problem is not in the Russian neighbours, but in the Ukrainian government, when the Prime Minister of Ukraine accuses Ukrainian exporters of not going to Russia for their fault. It turns out our Ukrainian companies, including Roschen, who sell goods around the world and have high quality, can't go to Russia because they don't seem to meet high Russian standards. We demand a clear plan of action and a clear response from the Ukrainian government. It should be about real anti-crisis measures, financing our businesses, diversifying markets, supporting payment and trade balance, and it is a good political response, including with our European partners. And we hope that the Ukrainian question will be raised at the G20 summit in St. Petersburg. We expect the President, the Cabinet of Ministers, and the vast majority of meeting all the criteria. Viktor Janukovic publicly stated in his interview that Ukraine would do its utmost to sign a treaty with the European Union. We look forward to concrete actions, the liberation of Timoshenko, the adoption of electoral legislation, the adoption of legislation on the prosecution. The second is about the real economic crisis that's in the country. Either the President doesn't own the situation, or he's deliberately misinformed, it turns out that the main achievement in Ukraine is so-called zero inflation. To present this as an achievement is nothing more than an expression of economic ignorance. Ukraine is stagnant. Prices, Victor Fedorovich, don't grow because people don't have money, there's nothing to buy. And if there is no money, the prices for goods fall accordingly. We expect a clear plan of action from the Ukrainian government. First. Where can we find 40 billion dollars to cover the government deficit by the end of this year? The other one. How can we balance the balance of payments and trade? Third.
ParlaMint-UA_2013-09-03-m0.u13	Finish up.
ParlaMint-UA_2013-09-03-m0.u14	Third. What's going to happen to the exchange rate? And how will Ukraine maintain a stable exchange rate? Four. Where is the job creation and employment promotion program? And the fifth. How will the government and Victor Janukovic implement social standards? As Ukrainian opposition, we will support change in the country and do everything we can to make Ukraine a European state, which is our goal and we will achieve it. Glory to Ukraine!
ParlaMint-UA_2013-09-03-m0.u15	The Vitaly Klitschka faction, National MP Vitaly Klitschko, please.
ParlaMint-UA_2013-09-03-m0.u16	Dear colleagues, I want to welcome everyone! We are once again starting a new session of the Supreme Council, a session to become a historic one that will determine Ukraine's fate for many decades in advance and depend on us very much. First of all, I am talking about the signing of the Agreement with the European Association, with the EU. Parliament itself has a crucial role to play in signing, perhaps for the first time in recent years much depends on us. Hence, a great deal of responsibility has been placed on each of us. We should remember that European choice is the will of the vast majority of Ukrainians, and Ukrainian society has already made its choice: Ukraine is Europe. Now Parliament must demonstrate its European status. The Impact Group will do its utmost to successfully complete preparations for the Vilnius summit and to sign the Association Agreement. As a reminder of the importance of every session day, our faction will wear European symbolism until there is a summit in Vilnius. During the Conciliation Council, I stressed that the issue of judicial reform, the legislation on the prosecution, the electoral legislation should be resolved within the next few weeks. Of course, some important questions do not depend solely on you. It is understandable, for example, that the issue of the liberation of Yulia Timoshenko is a matter of political will exclusively of President Yanukovic of Ukraine. Our principle position is a political verdict, and it has to be overturned, in any case, immediately. We have very little time, without changing our approach to the organization of Parliament's work, we cannot work effectively. We see the role of the opposition, particularly the impact faction, in that the content of the laws that we will adopt here meets European standards. I therefore insist on the creation of a working group to which all factions in favour of European integration should enter the parity principles. This group is to work out such an edition of the laws necessary for the signing of the Association Agreement, which has the support of the constitutional majority in this room. Volodymyr Vasilovich, please hold consultations on the heads of all factions of Parliament in order to form this working group. I also want to address the chairman on one very important issue. In February, when we made changes to the Rules on Personal Voting Control, you personally promised that this session would already have a system that made it impossible to vote in private. We see that there is still no such system, so we need to provide information on how the work is going on with the introduction of a new voting system. And most important. We cannot expect European integration to succeed if the authorities act by anti-democratic means. In a European country, the police can't beat both ordinary citizens and national MPs, as they did the last time in Kievrad a few weeks ago. Special forces workers cannot demand money from journalists, the law enforcement system should not be a means of pressure against opposition, members of their families, as is the case today with the deputy of our faction Putilov, Dubnevich, and other opposition. Now a lot of reporters came up to me and said, "Vitaly, how did you like the President of Ukraine's speech?" I mean, the speech was a good one, the President said the right thing. [[Applause]] But all these actions of power, along with claims of European aspirations, are manipulation and pharisaicism. [[Applause]] If we really want to meet the criteria of the European Union and sign the agreements, the association agreement, the Henprosecutor, the Minister of Internal Affairs, has to come here and tell us about the objective and not the butaphoric investigation of these cases, name the names and tell us when they're going to be held accountable. Dear colleagues, we have many fundamental questions before us. They have to be solved in the most useful way for the country and not for any party. This is the holding of elections in troubled majority districts, also in Kiev and in district centres where people are deprived of local self - government, of their right to choose.
ParlaMint-UA_2013-09-03-m0.u17	I'm asking you to finish.
ParlaMint-UA_2013-09-03-m0.u18	And this is to take place no later than November of this year. These are changes in economic regulation that will allow people to work and reduce corruption. Impact, strike party, has prepared a number of such drafts. Thus, we will ensure that the EU meets its requirements in essence, and we will do everything we can to ensure that the signing of the association with Ukraine takes place because Ukraine is Europe. Thank you for your attention.
ParlaMint-UA_2013-09-03-m0.u19	Thank you. Region Party, Efraemov Alexander Sergiyovich Please.
ParlaMint-UA_2013-09-03-m0.u20	Dear colleagues Vladimir Vasiljevic, distinguished colleagues! [[B in m in s a l in]] Let me begin by congratulating you on the opening of the third session of the seventh assembly and wishing you success in the work. Today, the country and society are located outside the strategic boundaries. The geopolitical choice enshrined in the Law on the Fundamentals of Ukraine's Internal and Foreign Policy has been made. We have come to the full conclusion of the Association and Free Trade Agreement with the European Union. At the same time, no one can contradict us in a unilateral approach to choosing economic partners in the modern world. European integration is not the will of officials or politicians, but rather the objective reality of our country's position in the centre of the European continent and the desire of most societies. Through the same logic, we maintain and strive to develop an equal relationship with traditional, historical partners and friends: the Russian Federation, the countries of the Eurasian Community, other world leaders and new economic development centres. The leadership of the State does not build new barriers, but seeks a higher-level partnership. I recall that the country is a party to the CIS Free Trade Zone and is prepared to make specific sense of the relevant treaty framework. Regrettably, relations with the immediate neighbours at this stage have to overcome the consequences of short-sighted statements by individual middle-level officials. But I am convinced that addressing emerging problems will be found during the summit negotiations. And this confidence is reinforced by our President Viktor Yanukovic's statement here today, in the Hall, and during the last interview of journalists through central television channels. At the same time, I am also convinced that neither the EU nor the Customs Union will bring us wealth and stability unless we ourselves, on our own strength, conduct a fundamental modernization of the State. The first results of the changes that lay the foundation of the new country are already tangible. Step by step, we are building a platform for long-term economic growth and human well-being. In the first half of the year, in the face of the instability of the world economy, we did not allow for the collapse of macroeconomic indicators and met the payment of salaries, pensions and benefits in a timely manner. Ukraine's external trade indicators are the best in the last three years. The balance of payments surplused two billion dollars. This was the basis for the stability of the national currency and, fortunately, low inflation persists in the State. There is reason to expect the second half of the year to be better for the economic indicators. This will provide the basis for increased social benefits. The development of the economy has been driven by a good crop of grain, allowing Ukraine to fight for a place in the troika of world leaders for grain production and to increase the flow of currency into the treasury. However, we understand that the situation in the Ukrainian economy, as in the world economy, is complex. Common recipes are not effective today, so we are looking for unusual, sometimes difficult solutions. As an example, the Supreme Council adopted at the end of the last session a set of laws on transfer pricing, on the circulation of bills and others. Legislative support for economic growth remains a strategic objective of the seventh call. On the basis of the consolidated position of the President, Parliament and Government, important bills have been drafted that await inclusion in the agenda of the current session. In the area of business support, it is an initiative to protect investors'rights, to simplify the way businesses are opened, and to reduce the number of permits. These are also laws on State aid to operators, improving the activities of shareholders and innovative activities. Laws on the location of the referendum, public participation in public policy-making and local issues are designed to strengthen the role of local government. Civil society is awaiting laws on public television and radio broadcasting, on the openness of the use of publicity, public media and others. The adoption of the country's balanced budget for 2014 is a key task of the session. Important steps must be taken on the path of European integration. Without exaggerating the historical role of the Ukrainian Parliament. This has also been emphasized by the President today. Taking into account the recommendations of the Venice Commission, the Council of Europe and OSCE, we must adopt the laws necessary to sign a treaty with the European Union. The reform of the Public Prosecutor's Office, the judicial process, the fight against corruption. We have to improve electoral legislation. Work is enough for all, respectable colleagues. The patriotic majority in Parliament is obliged to rise above political contradictions and join forces for the future of the country. In a climate of instability in the world, Ukraine's national interests also require the consolidation of political forces and society. It is people's interests, not political ambitions, that should be the main argument in the work of the Supreme Council. I wish all of us understanding and fruitful work during the third session. Thank you for the attention of those who listened but to those who spoke
ParlaMint-UA_2013-09-03-m0.u21	Faction of the Communist Party of Ukraine, Simonenko Peter Mikolaiovich. Please.
ParlaMint-UA_2013-09-03-m0.u22	Dear colleagues! Dear voters! By putting the task ahead of the faction of this session with regard to the content of the legislative acts and the initiatives that we are planning to take, we have come out of a thorough analysis of the events that are taking place in our society. Our sovereignty is primarily based on the economy. And what we hope today is that there are people in this room who really know what's going on in the economy. And apart from those statements that you can appreciate how trying to carry water in the latrine, I can't see anything in these statements. Because today is a collapse in the economy, and that's understandable. Who doesn't know that in the summer we had not billions but 10 million in Ukraine with 45 million people. If it tells anyone about the gains, then it tells us, Communists, not only about the failure, it tells us about the Ukrainian disaster. And these are the results of your 20 years of politics. That's how you met the independence of Ukraine. Speaking of failures in the economy, today we would like to keep in mind that we have a sharp cut in the gold reserve. We have destroyed those basic industries that allow and enable jobs to create, fill the state budget, save science, develop and implement new technologies. We've forgotten about Ukrainian electronics, we've forgotten about rural machinery, we've forgotten about airplane construction. And I say they've forgotten, because there's nothing the authorities and politicians do in power to save Ukrainian aircraft. Today the problem is huge with the shipbuilding industry, the problem with the military industrial complex. That's exactly what this statement is saying about profit -- this is, let's say, a dead park. I'd like us to understand today, the budget process is starting. Who will fill the state budget? Who's going to fill today when there's no work, practically an internal market occupied by markets and products from abroad, and here's where they decide to join the European community without protecting the Ukrainian producer or protecting Ukrainian economic space. So today we are openly concerned that we need to change radical approaches to the organization of work. The Company's faction offered on the basis of its anti-crisis programme a package of really real legislation that protects the Ukrainian economy, redistributes profits, profits from oligarchs to the state treasury and directs them to the real support of our disadvantaged population. This is the ideology with which the Company's faction will work in the Supreme Council, and you can be sure, honourable voters. There's another problem. It's a European integration that's been talked about so much here. Ladies and gentlemen, I don't understand, all economists have already admitted that the six articles of the Constitution have been violated. What are you going to do then? You are calling for urgent decisions today, and today you are urging everyone to be criminals with you. You're violating Ukraine's basic law. Who gave you the right or gave you the right to do so? You're self-inflicted on such matters. Next. If we're looking at what an oath is, this is where a fellow swearer made an oath and said compliance with the Constitution, then why don't you stick to the Constitution in practical activities. Next. We cannot join the European Union today because we already have a decision by the Ukrainian courts to prohibit Ukrainian citizens from holding meetings about the will they wish to express. So what we Communists are different from you is what we said: "The strategic choice should be made by the people of Ukraine, not by the oligarchs of Ukraine!".. [[Applause]] That's the difference between you and me. So when we talk about choice, I'd like to ask you, and you know that Azarov, as Prime Minister, did not hold this agreement in his hands? He doesn't know the meaning of it! You know there's no minister's signature under this contract, so to speak! Who is responsible for the fact that there are numbers to support the Ukrainian manufacturer? Well, that's what you signed for. Shut up, for God's sake! You've already signed the WTO! And I want to remind you again that Ukraine is the people of Ukraine, not your offshore companies! Once again, I would like to be with you, noting what is happening in Ukraine today, and paying attention to what, look, I now said to Kwasnevsky, "Well, who are you dealing with at all?".. It is called the European Party, and it submits an application to the court to prohibit European values from being introduced into Ukraine. Through a referendum, Europe has decided on the issue, and we in Ukraine are not allowed to hold citizens' meetings to determine what we will do next. Who became engrossed in Ukraine’s sovereignty? It was those who signed the World Trade Organization, who are still complaining about what is called European integration. And once again, I want to warn you, Your Honor, you will commit a crime. You will finally destroy the economic sovereignty of our nation. And who doesn't know today. What are you doing? You're going to import products from Europe at zero rates, and the Ukrainian producer at the price of the products he sold, that's how you're going to export them, and that's how you're going to export them. Well, what are you doing to the people of Ukraine? First, settle all these questions, protect the Ukrainian manufacturer, and then talk about European values. That's why I did it again.
ParlaMint-UA_2013-09-03-m0.u23	Finish up.
ParlaMint-UA_2013-09-03-m0.u24	I address our distinguished voters. Today is a truly responsible time and we will do everything the communists can to do, the people of Ukraine this, not the oligarchs of Ukraine. Thank you.
ParlaMint-UA_2013-09-03-m0.u25	Ladies and gentlemen, time is up. We've got six more minutes before the break. We have an opportunity to make a decision on a single decision, and then I'll call it a break. The decision is being considered (registration number 2510a) to amend the Supreme Council of Ukraine decree on parliamentary hearings on "Availability and quality of general secondary education: status and ways of improvement". You and I have decided to hold these parliamentary hearings for a minute, put your hands down, I'm not done yet. We decided to hold these parliamentary hearings in October. I want to ask you, there's a need to discuss, to replace, one to accept, to hold these hearings on October 23rd. May I put it to a vote? Put your hands down, vote. Who is in favour of adopting a draft Decree (Registration No. 2510a) amending the Supreme Council of Ukraine Ordinance on Parliamentary Hearings on "Availability and Quality of General Secondary Education: Status and Ways of Improvement" to be held on October 23, 2013. Please vote on the basis as a whole. People's deputies, please vote. [[11:56:46]] For 319 Against-0, held-0, didn't vote-84. Decision taken. The factions. Region Party 160, Parenthood 47, Vitalia Klicka 32, Freedom 31, Company 30, non-fractional 19. This is an example for us to vote with you for the third session. A break of up to 12 hours is announced for 30 minutes.
ParlaMint-UA_2013-09-03-m0.u26	I'm asking you to invite the deputies to the session room. Ladies and gentlemen, I'd like to inform you, because we're going to have a lot of votes today, and I have a statement. There's Edward Volodymyrovich Leonov in the hospital. He's gone? He's not in the hospital, he's in surgery. Next, on vacation, the National MP is Povali. You don't? None. People's Deputies, Daych. Next, there are the national deputies of the workman. You don't? I'm on my way. Next, Gelaway? None. Pavlovsky? None. I don't have any other information. Let's go to chapter two. The draft Law (Registration No. 1246) amending the Ukrainian Code of Taxation on the Codification of Economic Activities (Second Reading) is being considered. So I would like to give the floor to the report on this question, please, Vitalia Yuriovich Homutinik.
ParlaMint-UA_2013-09-03-m0.u27	Thank you, Vladimir Vasilovich! Dear colleagues! The bill was prepared for a previous session. I will briefly inform you that the second reading of this bill has reached 45 proposals from national deputies, of which 35 are rejected.10. In order to make comprehensive amendments to the Tax Code, proposals for Bill 2029, adopted by the Supreme Council in the first reading, submitted by the Cabinet of Ministers, were included in the proposals of the Committee. The bill is related to Bill 2139, which was also adopted by the Supreme Council in its first reading, which is also scheduled to be considered in this plenary week. This set of changes is aimed at simplifying business initiation procedures for legal and physical persons. Some of the amendments will be technical, but I'll talk about it in the course of this amendment bill. Thank you.
ParlaMint-UA_2013-09-03-m0.u28	Let's do some repairs. What is our correction? Turn on the microphone, People's Deputy Lapin.
ParlaMint-UA_2013-09-03-m0.u29	Thank you. Kseniya Lapina, "Fatherland" faction, Party "For Ukraine!".. Dear colleagues, I note that this bill was approved in the first reading by this Hall solely in order to change the codification of the Tax Code in connection with the amendment of the KWED. Before the second reading, the text was radically changed. So the first amendment refers to a change in even the name. Codification is just one tenth of what it is now. Now, without consideration in the first reading, without consideration by the Supreme Council, without the possibility of introducing alternative visions, there are dozens of articles of the Tax Code, changes in positions that have no bearing on codification, but relate to the serious part of the work of the Ukrainian economy. This will affect both pricing and budgeting. There's no real analysis of the wire.
ParlaMint-UA_2013-09-03-m0.u30	Let's finish.
ParlaMint-UA_2013-09-03-m0.u31	Thus, we are strongly opposed to this approach by article 116 of the Rules, and this violates the constitutional right of all deputies to make alternatives and work on the bill. After all, it just makes the quality of legislation and the quality of the Tax Code worse. You can't play with things like that. We are opposed to that and we suggest that we return to the second reading.
ParlaMint-UA_2013-09-03-m0.u32	Please, Vitaly Yuriovich.
ParlaMint-UA_2013-09-03-m0.u33	Thank you, Your Honor Ksenya Mihailno. In my report, I noted that there is another bill, 2029, submitted by the Cabinet of Ministers, which deals with the forgiveness of the procedures for initiating business. I'm sure you haven't gotten to know the story yet. There are standards that make it easier to run a business in a part of the legal registration, that's what you do all the time. So in order not to produce three or four laws of amendment to the Tax Code, those already adopted in the first reading and generally supported by Parliament, we have united them into one, so that you do not accuse us of changing the Tax Code ten times during the session. Thank you.
ParlaMint-UA_2013-09-03-m0.u34	Ladies and gentlemen, the committee presented to the Supreme Council a table and a second reading law. We should consider it and show our attitude by voting. So let's go to the corners: Amendment 9. Declined. People's Deputies. Is there a national MP?
ParlaMint-UA_2013-09-03-m0.u35	He won't deny it.
ParlaMint-UA_2013-09-03-m0.u36	You don't mind. Let's move on. Amendment 11, People's Deputies. He doesn't mind. 12. Don't deny that it's rejected. Amendment 20, People's Deputies. Turn on the microphone.
ParlaMint-UA_2013-09-03-m0.u37	Good afternoon, dear fellows! Dear Vladimir Vasilovich, the point is that they missed the 16th. On the 20th right, I don't insist, but 16 amendments, the table says it's included in Bill 2833, but this is essentially a technical amendment, and I'm asking the MPs to support it. 16th row.
ParlaMint-UA_2013-09-03-m0.u38	All right, let's go. What do you suggest?
ParlaMint-UA_2013-09-03-m0.u39	16th row. Request for a vote. The table shows that it was essentially included in another bill. But for the purity of the genre, it's purely technical, and we support the committee's support for voting on the proposal of Dudenkov in the text of this law. This applies to 16 amendments. It will be, too. 23.
ParlaMint-UA_2013-09-03-m0.u40	Is that clear, national MPs? I'll bet you 16 bucks. I'll be back! 16 Amendment to support the proposal of People’s Deputies of Doubenko. People's deputies, please prepare for the vote. Finish your meetings there! Sit down, we have to work. I bet on the vote of Amendment 16 for support. Please vote. [[12:40:44]] For-153 The decision is not taken. Against 0, holding back, 14, not voting, 209. The decision is not taken. Factions: The Party of Regions is 148, Fatherland is zero, Vitaly Klicka is zero, Freedom is zero, the Company is zero, non-fractional is five. We missed the amendment number 14 of the People's Deputies of Dudenkov.
ParlaMint-UA_2013-09-03-m0.u41	Don't insist.
ParlaMint-UA_2013-09-03-m0.u42	Don't insist. Let's move on. Watch this.
ParlaMint-UA_2013-09-03-m0.u43	There's 21 amendments to Dudenkov, he doesn't insist on the rest.
ParlaMint-UA_2013-09-03-m0.u44	21st. What a suggestion for 21 amendments. People's Deputies.
ParlaMint-UA_2013-09-03-m0.u45	Thank you. It's also a technical tool. It is aimed at eliminating disagreements. I'm asking my opposition colleagues to support this exercise as well. These are really technical standards. And the taxpayers will thank you for voting. Thank you.
ParlaMint-UA_2013-09-03-m0.u46	I bet on the vote of Amendment 21 of the People's Deputies of Dudenkova, for support. Please vote. [[12:42:10]] For a hundred and Against zero, with 16, with no vote of 201. The decision is not taken. The factions. Let's move on. Please turn on the microphone of the People's Deputy Pinzenic.
ParlaMint-UA_2013-09-03-m0.u47	Dear Vladimir Vasilovich, distinguished national deputies! I ask you to support Amendment 22. This correction, which unfortunately includes an offshore system, opens an offshore tax avoidance hole. So please put it in support. And what Leapina said was absolutely right. These problems arose in the law because many rights to law applied to rules that were not the subject of first reading, which was a gross violation of the Rules. Please put to the vote support for Amendment 22.
ParlaMint-UA_2013-09-03-m0.u48	Thank you. Please, the head of the Vitaly Homutinnick Committee.
ParlaMint-UA_2013-09-03-m0.u49	This amendment is also made by the People’s Deputy Dudenkova. And the committee supported this amendment in agreement with the government. So if there is a need, let us confirm.
ParlaMint-UA_2013-09-03-m0.u50	People's deputies get the point? I would like to vote in favour of the committee's decision. Amendment number 22, People's Deputies of Doubenkova. People's deputies, please vote. [[12:44:01]] For-191 Against the 23rd. Hold on to three. They didn't vote - 157. The decision is not taken. The factions. Regional Party - 155, Fatherland, Vitaly Klicka Block, Freedom 0, Company - 28, Postfaction - 8. Amendment 22 is not supported. Let's move on. Amendment number 27, People's Deputies of Doubenkova. Are you insisting? Don't insist. 28, People's Deputies. Don't insist. Amendment 29, National Deputy Moshak. Turn on the microphone of the Moshak People's Deputy.
ParlaMint-UA_2013-09-03-m0.u51	Dear Vladimir Vasilovich, I insist that this amendment be put in place for support. Thank you.
ParlaMint-UA_2013-09-03-m0.u52	Vitaly, please.
ParlaMint-UA_2013-09-03-m0.u53	The committee did not have enough votes, but the amendment was logical. Of course, a national MP has the right to be supportive. If there is support, it will respond to the text.
ParlaMint-UA_2013-09-03-m0.u54	People's deputies got it? I'm betting on the vote of Amendment 29, People's Deputy Moshak, for support. Please vote. [[12:45:52]] For-166 Against 3, held – 8, not voted – 193. The decision is not taken. The factions. The region's 160, four factions: Fatherland, Vitaly Klicka, Freedom, the Company is zero, non-fractional is 6. Amendment 39. National MP, Katerina Vaschuk. Are you insisting? Don't insist. Amendment 40. National MP, Katerina Vaschuk. Don't insist. All the repairs? What's the offer? Vitaly Hometicnik, chairman of the committee.
ParlaMint-UA_2013-09-03-m0.u55	You can put to the vote in the second reading and in general. Those amendments that have not been made do not, in principle, affect the final drafting of the bill.
ParlaMint-UA_2013-09-03-m0.u56	Dear National Deputies! All right, guys, let's get this conversation over I ask you to sit down and work and vote. You don't need to raise a clock. I'm asking the MPs to take their seats. I'll bet you a vote. I'll give it to you on the basis of the vote. I am voting on a draft law (registration 1246) amending the Ukrainian Tax Code to modify the codification of economic activities for adoption in the second reading and in general as a law. This is a committee proposal. Please vote. [[12:48:18]] For-198 Against the 12, held-10, not voted 115. The decision is not taken. The factions. Region Party - 162, Fatherland - 0, Hit Vitalia Klicka - 0, Freedom - 0, Company - 29, non-fractional - 7. I beg of you, the People's Deputy of Kyde. Please.
ParlaMint-UA_2013-09-03-m0.u57	Thank you, Vladimir Vasilovich. Alexy Kaida, faction of the All-Ukrainian Freedom Union. I want to explain the position of our faction. We pulled out our cards by demonstrating our position with this action on the adoption of this law. He was voted first in the bank. This is the first moment. And the other one. As the National MPs have already noted, we have been given a bill that was fundamentally different, again, from you accepted. So our position is clear. Those laws that were passed at Banks are illegal. And we don't consider them legitimate. Thank you. And Volodymyr Vasilovich, Volodymyr Vasilovich! And to give a word for the reasons for the vote. This should be put to the vote. Thank you.
ParlaMint-UA_2013-09-03-m0.u58	Honorable MP, very distinguished to me, you give me the Rules, I'll read it, okay? I beg of you, National Deputy Rosenko.
ParlaMint-UA_2013-09-03-m0.u59	Paul Rosenco, Vitaly Caller's Faction. First. I would like to point out that, unfortunately, Vladimir Vasilovich, is not the first and not the second time that this committee is engaged in a gross violation of the rules of procedure. When they include in their drafts that prepare for second reading, standards that are not discussed in the first reading. It's a gross violation. We had these precedents for the last session. Now it's repeating itself. I'm asking you to pay attention to the committee's head of regulations. The other one. The position of our faction is also clear as to the meeting of the so - called Supreme Council of Ukraine on Banking, which took place on April 4. Regrettably, this bill was similarly discussed at these illegal assemblies of Ukrainian national deputies. So his future destiny should be the next. Today it is already rejected. Let him take it as a legislative initiative to the Supreme Council.
ParlaMint-UA_2013-09-03-m0.u60	I beg you, the Chechetov People's Deputy.
ParlaMint-UA_2013-09-03-m0.u61	Dear Volodymyr Vasilovich, distinguished national deputies! The law is very important. I ask you to put him to the vote for a second reading again. Thank you.
ParlaMint-UA_2013-09-03-m0.u62	Dear National Deputies, there is a proposal to return to the committee of profile, let them prepare for the second reading. I am voting on the draft Act (Registration No. 1246) amending the Ukrainian Tax Code to amend the codification of economic activities to return to the Committee for review later in the Supreme Council on re-second reading. People's deputies, please vote. [[12:52:19]] For 205 Against 6, held – 12, not voted – 143. The decision is not taken. The factions. Regional Party - 165, Fatherland, Vitaly Calla, Freedom - 0, Company - 30, non-fractional - 10. Let's move on. We're a decision. A draft Ukrainian Law (No. 0979) on the production and circulation of organic agricultural products and raw materials with the proposals of the President of Ukraine since 12.10.2012 is under consideration. How will we view it? It's the procedure. I give the floor to the representative of the President of Ukraine at the Supreme Council of Ukraine, Yuri Romanovich Miroshnichenko.
ParlaMint-UA_2013-09-03-m0.u63	Thank you, Vladimir Vasilovich. Dear voters! Dear colleagues! The Act on the Production and Circulation of Organic Agricultural Products and Raw Materials adopted by the Supreme Council on 18 September 2012 (Registration No. 0979) cannot be signed by the President of Ukraine for such reasons. First of all, there are objections to the proposal that Parliament and the government are referring to the bodies that are implementing state policy in the field of production and circulation of organic products. They do not have the authority to do so. The Head of State believes that there is a need for further development of the law on the identification of central executive authorities that carry out state policy in the field in question, as well as the position on the issue of the functioning of their territorial bodies. Secondly, there is no support for the introduction of certification procedures and the inspection of organic production. The integration of certification and self - control functions in one institution is contrary to national and international principles. In addition, the law does not clearly distinguish supervisory functions between the public authority and the operator. This can lead to unjustified competition between subjects. Thirdly, the law does not directly regulate the conduct of State oversight in this area. He defines only the executive authority on which he trusts to exercise oversight. It is not in line with the tasks of the central executive body and the mechanism for inspection and production of organic products. Fourthly, the establishment of the system of certification of the relevant inspectors does not correspond to the Law on Confirmation of Conformity, under which work on certification is entitled to be carried out by a person who has the appropriate qualifications and has been tested in accordance with the established order. It is also considered inappropriate to develop a separate national programme for the development of production and circulation of organic products, and this issue should be addressed in the context of the implementation of the current State Target Program for the Development of Ukrainian Villages by 2015. In this regard, honourable colleagues, please support the proposals made by the President of Ukraine. Thank you for your attention. Considering that all the proposals made by the President of Ukraine were supported by a committee of profile, me and the economy of time. Since we have a busy schedule today, and we still have a lot to discuss in the agenda, I suggest we look at them immediately and vote on the Law with the proposals of the President of Ukraine as a whole. Thank you.
ParlaMint-UA_2013-09-03-m0.u64	28 Comment on the amendment.
ParlaMint-UA_2013-09-03-m0.u65	28 amendments. I'll find her now, too. Here's what I'm going to read, dear colleagues. Part six of article 29 should be supplemented by the following: “The marking of the product that is in transition to organic production is done using the national logo “product at the stage of transition to organic production”. Accordingly, the identity committee considered this amendment. I'd like to suggest to the head of the profiling committee that I comment on. But I think it's perfectly logical that when we're marking, we're pointing to the state of the product that's marked. So if it's an organic product, it's marked accordingly. If it is at a stage when it acquires such a status, so do we. I propose to support this amendment the same way I supported the committee, but maybe there'll be a comment on the committee's head, I'd like to.
ParlaMint-UA_2013-09-03-m0.u66	Is the correction counted?
ParlaMint-UA_2013-09-03-m0.u67	Yes, it's counted.
ParlaMint-UA_2013-09-03-m0.u68	Thank you, sit down. Is there a question? None. Please sit down. I ask for a report from the head of the Committee on Agriculture Policy and Land Relations, Grigory Mikolaiovich Kaletnik.
ParlaMint-UA_2013-09-03-m0.u69	Dear Vladimir Vasilovich, distinguished national deputies! Last year, September 18th, the Supreme Council of the Prior Council passed the Ukrainian Law on Production and Commodity. The global community pays great attention to the conservation of the environment and the provision of quality food grown in an organic way. In Ukraine, the decline in the use of chemical plant protection products and minerals has contributed to the fact that we now have relatively clean soil in large areas. Ukraine, with its natural climate and resource potential, can take one of the leading places among agricultural producers in an organic state, its implementation of exports, and its supply to the internal market will generate much more profits. The use of organic farming systems in Ukraine will become more profitable due to the use of innovative biotechnologies, which reduces production costs, reduces the share of waste, increases crops, accelerates the growth of plants, and their dryness. In total, this will have an impact on the cost of production, which will increase the demand and profits of agricultural producers. Further development of organic agriculture will contribute to the creation of additional jobs in rural areas and new prospects for small farms, the viability and viability of rural communities, which are extremely important for Ukraine. The President of Ukraine has made a number of substantive comments and suggestions to this law, particularly regarding the determination of the powers of the central executive authorities that carry out State policy in the field of production and circulation of organic agricultural products, their application in accordance with the Constitution of Ukraine and the Law of Ukraine on Central Executive Authorities. According to the law, the exercise of the same powers of inspection and certification in the field of organic production, as well as of the State executive body that exercises State policy in the field of surveillance in the agro-industrial complex and of the operators who perform the functions of the authorized certification body, is indeed and has a double standard, as pointed out by the President of Ukraine. Therefore, the President stressed the need to remove the non-conformity of this law by laws governing relations in the field of certification and confirmation of the appropriateness of State oversight. The president also made a number of substantive comments and suggestions to other articles of the Organic Production Act. The Committee on Agriculture Policy and Land Relations at its meeting on 21 May 2013 considered the proposals of the President of Ukraine to the Ukrainian Law on Production and Circumstances of Organic Agriculture and Raw materials (Registration No. 0979) and decided to recommend that the Supreme Council of Ukraine take into account all the proposals made by the President of Ukraine to this law and adopt the law in such an order. I thank you and ask for your support for the committee's decision, and I would like to ask all the national deputies to support this law because it is of considerable importance to the development of organic agricultural production. Thank you for your attention. If you have a question, please.
ParlaMint-UA_2013-09-03-m0.u70	Any questions for your head? You don't? Yes. Please sign up for the question. Please, National Deputy Rosenko.
ParlaMint-UA_2013-09-03-m0.u71	Please pass the word to Taras Kutov.
ParlaMint-UA_2013-09-03-m0.u72	Please, National Deputy Taras Kutov.
ParlaMint-UA_2013-09-03-m0.u73	Dear colleagues! Our faction will support this law, of course it needs a lot more work, but there have been several attempts to define the concept of organic production in rural production in general, this has failed many times, and perhaps this will be the first time that it has succeeded. I think we're going to do an effective job, including protecting consumers' rights for what they eat, what quality. I think it might not be a bad law for the future. Thank you.
ParlaMint-UA_2013-09-03-m0.u74	National deputy from the Party of Nechayev. Can I ask you a question?
ParlaMint-UA_2013-09-03-m0.u75	I ask you to pass the word to the Divine Inna Hermanovna.
ParlaMint-UA_2013-09-03-m0.u76	Pass it on, please.
ParlaMint-UA_2013-09-03-m0.u77	Dear colleagues, it is a pleasure to hear that most deputies support this law because it is certainly the Ukrainian gold of our lands. And we are competitive in the world economy at the home of organic production. So we're really going to have to do a lot more in legislation to regulate this issue, but I'm asking you to support most of the deputies, because these are our breakthroughs in the world market for agriculture. Thank you.
ParlaMint-UA_2013-09-03-m0.u78	The Vitalia Klitschka faction, National Deputy Kaplin, please.
ParlaMint-UA_2013-09-03-m0.u79	Volodymyr Vasilovich! Maybe mine won't apply to agriculture, but I did go to Poltava County and what's important is that in the future there might be no one else to work in this area because schools are slowly closing down in the year 12 schools are closed. And I would like them to consider my speech with an official MP's request. Now there are 12 schools on the Red Road in Poltava that are closed by Tobacco. On September 1, the children came with their parents to bring a party to the land and protested the closure. I want you to remember the story. Even Hitler personally forbade this important place to close this school. It was introduced into the Nazi archives. And the current authority of the Party of Regions today, headed by the mayor of the city, is closing down this school. This is a disgrace to the authorities in Poltava. And I demand that my appeal be considered an official parliamentary request and return to the children and to Poltava this remarkable one.
ParlaMint-UA_2013-09-03-m0.u80	The distinguished national MP, the distinguished national deputy Kaplin, needs to speak on the matter that we are considering. I'm asking you very much. And the questions you're raising are important, but they're different. Time is up on the question, please sit down. I'm making a proposal, a very important question with the President's proposals, let's go from a faction to a deputy. Please sign up for factions. I'm asking you to sign up, Adam Ivanovich. National Deputy Zac Party of Regions.
ParlaMint-UA_2013-09-03-m0.u81	They'll pass on the word Miroshnichenko.
ParlaMint-UA_2013-09-03-m0.u82	Please, Yuri Miroshnichenko. A very important question, I would like your attention.
ParlaMint-UA_2013-09-03-m0.u83	Dear colleagues! Actually, I think you understand from the speeches and me when I introduced the president's remarks and the head of the profiling committee that it's an extremely important law. This is the law that enables Ukraine to compete successfully in the world’s organic markets. And our common goal with you is to make this law quality. So I'd like to invite colleagues who represent the majority who represent the opposition, so that we, as statesmen, rather than just politicians, will see to it that this important law is passed. Dear colleagues, the President's remarks are important, important, and those who improve the quality of this law. This law is needed by a country in need of agriculture. So let's vote together on these amendments and this law as a whole, as we were invited to do by the Chief of the Supreme Council, Vladimir Vasilovich Rybak. Thank you for your attention.
ParlaMint-UA_2013-09-03-m0.u84	Thank you. Freedom Union, National Deputy Illenko.
ParlaMint-UA_2013-09-03-m0.u85	May I give the floor to the People's Deputy Alexander the Peace.
ParlaMint-UA_2013-09-03-m0.u86	Please give it to Alexander the Peace.
ParlaMint-UA_2013-09-03-m0.u87	Alexander Mirny, the All-Ukrainian Freedom Union. In fact, the bills in this direction are absolutely necessary. But I would like to draw the attention of a respected society that if we are going to one or the other associations or associations, we should clearly harmonize normative acts and normative documents. Unfortunately, this is not the case. Not enough, we don't see this law regulating exports and imports of organic products. Next, there is a contradiction in the law itself, when the status of the producer of organic products is granted by the auditor, but at the same time the public authority may not approve the status of the producer of organic products. So these inadequacies, they're practically going to take away all the good things that are in this law. Please turn around.
ParlaMint-UA_2013-09-03-m0.u88	Please, Fatherland faction, National Deputy Valérie Dubyl.
ParlaMint-UA_2013-09-03-m0.u89	Please give the floor to Ivan Grigorovitch Kirilenko.
ParlaMint-UA_2013-09-03-m0.u90	Please, Ivan Grigorovich Kirilenko.
ParlaMint-UA_2013-09-03-m0.u91	Respectable Society, Honorable Fellows! Kirilenko, the Fatherland faction. I want to translate into plain language what is now being said, for which the Chamber will vote by an absolute majority of votes. Dear friends, dear colleagues! This room has repeatedly, especially today, sounded, sounded and continued to sound like "Ukrainian choice," "Ukrainen dimension," "strategic direction", "breakthrough" and so on, and so on. That's right. The only law in recent months that defines the Ukrainian breakthrough and our place in the world co-operative and in the world economy is the Organic Agriculture and Organic Agriculture Act. Unfortunately, with the amendments, we have to cool it down a little bit, but it needs to be preserved so that the following changes to this law will improve and Ukraine will find its place in the world economy through this law. Simple examples of simple language, dear friends, we today have a positive balance in external trade only at the expense of one sector – agriculture, APC. Sorry, more than ten billion dollars in cash are clean, all the other areas are exhausted, you are.
ParlaMint-UA_2013-09-03-m0.u92	Finish up, finish up.
ParlaMint-UA_2013-09-03-m0.u93	Dear friends, are we trading grains for 200 to 300 dollars a tonne, or are we trading organically pure meat or, as is customary for people to say, ecologically clean for a hundred thousand dollars a tonne? Not to believe the figures, next to the government's district, in a store that sells organic produce or organic agriculture: beef in the United States, what's called steak -- 600 grams of kilograms; lamb in New Zealand, 15,000 miles -- 700 grams per kilogram. Put it in dollars, that's $100,000 per tonne. Can't we make it? I'm sorry, we're not clear about wealth, we're clean about poverty. We've been minimizing chemistry for 20 years now, protections and so on. Eight million hectares are ready to be certified. Guys, imagine what the volume of production is, not ten billion dollars can come in cash -- a hundred billion dollars in three, four years. But the law must act, and it must still be, it is said, the head needs beads -- political will.
ParlaMint-UA_2013-09-03-m0.u94	Thank you. Sergey Kaplin gave you his minute, so thank you, say so. All those who wish to speak, I beg your attention, I ask further from the Communists of Gordijenko the People's Deputy. Just a minute.
ParlaMint-UA_2013-09-03-m0.u95	Sergey Horidenko, faction of the Company of Ukraine, Poltavščina. The faction of the Company of Ukraine has considered the bill very carefully. She proposes to support the President's proposal. The previous speaker was absolutely correct in saying that this is one of such breakthroughs, drafts, and this is a sector that we need to support. Including a large number of such productions, there are also in Poland. Once again, please support the President's proposals.
ParlaMint-UA_2013-09-03-m0.u96	I'm asking for your attention! Prepare for the vote. I put to the vote the draft Ukrainian Law (No.0979) on the production and circulation of organic agricultural products and raw materials (with the proposals of the President of Ukraine from 12.10.2012), to be accepted in general, taking into account the proposals of the President of Ukraine. Please vote. [[13:14:21]] For 302 Against 0. We're holding on to 30. They didn't vote 53. Decision taken. The factions. Region Party - 174, Fatherland - 55, Vitaly Klicka - 29, Freedom - 0, Company - 31, Postfaction - 13. Let us now consider first - reading issues. The draft Law (Registration No. 2105a) amending the Ukrainian Customs Tariff, approved by the Ukrainian Customs Tariff Act (new edition). What are some suggestions for consideration? Short-term procedure? People's deputies, please vote. Who's behind the abbreviated procedure? [[13:15:42]] For 172 Against 72, held – 4, not voted – 136. Decision taken. The factions, please. I invite you to report to the First Deputy Minister of Economic Development and Trade, Anatoly Arkadyovich Maksut. Please. You have two minutes.
ParlaMint-UA_2013-09-03-m0.u97	Dear Vladimir Vasilovich! Dear National Deputies! The bill is designed to fulfil Ukraine’s international obligations, including through the International Convention on a Harmonized System of Commodity Description and Coding and to implement Ukraine’s tariff commitment schedule as part of its 2013 World Trade Organization membership, which is an integral part of the Protocol on Ukraine’s Entry into WTO approved by the Ukrainian Law on the Ratification of the Protocol. The bill proposes: First, a new edition of the Ukrainian customs tariff, based on an updated version of the Ukrainian classification of external economic activities; Secondly, the reduction in import duty rates for some product production, in line with Ukraine's commitments to the World Trade Organisation for 2013. I would like to point out that the rates of import duty already apply from 1 January 2013 and are collected by the customs authorities, considering that this is part of the commitments made by Ukraine at the time of joining the World Trade Organization. But we need to make adjustments to the customs tariff in order to bring it into line with these obligations. Thirdly, the increase in double the full import duty rates for the goods subcategories of the Ukrainian customs tariff, which will ensure the authenticity of the declaration of the country of origin of the goods by external economic operators. Dear National Deputies! Please accept the proposed bill as a basis and with further consideration. Thank you for your attention.
ParlaMint-UA_2013-09-03-m0.u98	Have a seat. I ask for a report from the head of the Committee on Tax and Customs Policy, Vitaly Yuriovich Homutinnik, please.
ParlaMint-UA_2013-09-03-m0.u99	Thank you. Dear Volodymyr Vasilovich, dear colleagues! As noted by the reporter, the bill provides for the fulfilment of the tariff obligations reached in the negotiation process since Ukraine’s entry into the World Trade Organization for 2013. The language in this bill goes, if you say so in general, the main question is to double the full rate of import duty by excluding those goods on which zero duty is set. In order to ensure the authenticity of the declaration of the country of consent. So if everything's okay with the documents, if the country is okay with the certificates, then the debt rate. If these documents are not available, they will be doubled. There are also a number of positions in which interest rates are falling under agreements with the World Trade Organization. This year, we have to cut the rates in positions such as seafood, from 20 to 15 percent, citrus, by 2 to 3 percent, in different positions, and for some vehicles, by 7 to 6.5 percent. There's also a proposal, it's already a government proposal, to reduce import duty to waste and scrap metal to 0 percent, today it's 5. But increase the import tax on polyvinyl chloride to 6.5 percent; today it's zero. In general, the government calculated the bill in its conclusion that it would receive an additional budget of about 400 million dollars. Thank you for your attention.
ParlaMint-UA_2013-09-03-m0.u100	Please sit down. I'm asking the National Deputies to sign up for the factions. Please, representative of Freedom Union, National Deputy Ilik. It's Fatherland. Excuse me, excuse me. How many are there? "Fatherland" union. Please.
ParlaMint-UA_2013-09-03-m0.u101	Dear Mr. Head, dear colleagues! Of course, under such conditions, the adoption of the law raises more questions than answers to questions. In which case a tax rate will be set, and in which case it will not. What are the evaluation criteria for those who are willing to go beyond the established operating standards that are today? The decline in the rate on seafood, on citrus, can be said today about what it looks like to be pretending to be Ukrainians under the conditions in which they live today and the wages they receive today. So, based on what we see as a bill being drafted and what it has reported today, how it was discussed in the session hall, including the issues that relate to the reduction, as it was said, of the import duty on some, I emphasize this word, the car, the car, shows that not only does the bill contain a corrupt one, including the ingredient. That's why the "Fatherland" faction won't support the bill. Thank you.
ParlaMint-UA_2013-09-03-m0.u102	The faction of the Ukrainian Company, National Deputy Gordijenko.
ParlaMint-UA_2013-09-03-m0.u103	Sergei Gordijenko, faction of the Ukrainian Company, Poltavščina. We must all be aware that we have serious problems filling the budget and financing all government programs. Therefore, the faction of the Ukrainian Company proposes in the first reading to support the bill itself and all that the national MPs say is to work on the second reading. Thank you.
ParlaMint-UA_2013-09-03-m0.u104	Thank you. The faction of the Party of the Regions, National MP Smithuch.
ParlaMint-UA_2013-09-03-m0.u105	Dear Vladimir Vasilovich! Dear National Deputies! In the first reading, this bill can be adopted. But I would like to highlight some points in this bill. If we're talking about integrating our economy and our opportunities into the European community, we should be honest about it, if we're reducing taxes on products, we're appropriately undermining the competitiveness of our population. If we look at the system of lowering taxes on certain fruit and vegetables and other products that are preserved, including, we say that as a result of our economy now developing or extracting from the negative, only because of agriculture, we have to think about how to protect this agriculture and how to support it. And how can we support it if we have credit rates today in the internal market of 25-30 percent, and in Europe, not more than 4 percent for the agricultural sector. As we say, grants to a very large number of sectors in the budget of the European country, including national countries, are geared towards substantial support for the agricultural sector and we have almost no agricultural sector. So how do we compete in this regard? So, I think that if we're doing Soviet protocols to keep our standards in line with our commitments, we need to ask the same question, and why in our market, without matching market relations, the same foreign companies are doing the very first thing in the banking field. And if we don't give grants at European level, if we don't bring the banking system in line with European standards, we can't compete, because these are financial opportunities that specifically finance our market, which should be substantially updated. And apart from these factors, we're going to open up the market, we're going to cut jobs and our agricultural sector sector, which is really, really going to take the opportunity to increase production.
ParlaMint-UA_2013-09-03-m0.u106	Let me finish.
ParlaMint-UA_2013-09-03-m0.u107	So I'm asking the committee, which is a profile, to look at at least in terms of the agricultural sector in this area. Thank you.
ParlaMint-UA_2013-09-03-m0.u108	Freedom Union, the People's Deputy of Kyde.
ParlaMint-UA_2013-09-03-m0.u109	Please pass the word to Michael Blavajk.
ParlaMint-UA_2013-09-03-m0.u110	Pass it on, please.
ParlaMint-UA_2013-09-03-m0.u111	Dear Head, honourable deputies! The All-Ukrainian Union of Freedom will not support this bill. Because it's a bill that doesn't meet the WTO requirements, first of all. It's a bill that doesn't have a proper financial basis. This is a bill that is imperfect. And we believe that this bill, which is now in force in Ukraine's Customs Tariff Act, we consider that it has become invalid and that it needs to be adopted and worked, that the new Customs Tariff Act should be finalized, where the customs tariff of Ukraine will be placed directly in the draft Law, not in a separate appendix, as we want to accept it today, as we see it today. Today, to increase import duties twice is simply a simple abuse of fair business, of those entrepreneurs who today pay their taxes honestly and import goods. We have another result today. We all know that during the month about 200,000 fuel is being transported to Ukraine -- gasoline, diesel fuel, oil and other fuel materials, oil. Where, then, are taxes coming from today? Where is anyone today paying for excise duty? Who pays all the other taxes and fills the budget today? This is a huge problem that we need to solve today, not the chaotic adoption of the bills that the oligarchs are lobbying today. They're not all paying taxes to Ukraine's budget, they're just robbing it. And with the bills that we're proposing today again through our committee, by the way, which doesn't support these bills. And you want today, what, to give them their will again? I think we should remember, the Ukrainian people should know who is not paying the tax.
ParlaMint-UA_2013-09-03-m0.u112	Thank you. National MP Lazko, one minute, please.
ParlaMint-UA_2013-09-03-m0.u113	Oleg Lazko, Radical Party. During the last 22 years, when Ukraine is independent, we have turned the internal market into a field where imported manure is imported, starting with Chinese, Turkish (let the Chinese and Turkish brothers forgive us), but that is true, and destroyed our own production. And this is the fate of responsibility not only for today’s government but also for all previous governments. And because of the customs, because of these procedures, we should regulate access to Ukraine's imported products by protecting our own market. Today’s government does not do so, as a result, for our voters, to speak the common language, millions of Ukrainian people have lost their jobs, without the ability to feed their families. On September 1st, the vast majority of people bought their children a new briefcase and shoes for nothing. These are the results of government activities. So we need to radically review this policy and protect the internal market, including by setting duties, restrictions, etc., in order to give our people jobs and wages.
ParlaMint-UA_2013-09-03-m0.u114	Thank you. Vitalia Klitschka faction, Pinzenic. Please have a minute.
ParlaMint-UA_2013-09-03-m0.u115	Dear Volodymyr Vasilovich, distinguished national deputies! What was the purpose of this bill? Customs from around the world should use the only codes of the commodity nomenclature for external economic activity. You realize that customs work is impossible if Polish customs uses one code, Ukrainian is another code. That's why the idea of the bill is correct, but under the so-called European integration into the bill, rules that have no relevance to it have been imposed. Some have pushed in this bill and raised rates of duty for the import of cars by Ukrainian citizens, covering up so - called integration bills. The strike faction is ready to support the bill in part, which deals with changing the qualification of conduct in accordance with the norms that are being applied around the world. So our proposal to vote on this law, to send it back for re-reading, to lift the rules that cause the MPs to deny it. And the second thing, Vladimir Vasilovich, leader of the Vitaly Klitschko faction, suggested that we don't have cases on so-called Euro-Integration Bills, create working groups, reconcile them, they're not problems that we can't solve.
ParlaMint-UA_2013-09-03-m0.u116	Let me finish.
ParlaMint-UA_2013-09-03-m0.u117	It's not a problem that we can settle in the Supreme Council Hall. Let's agree in the working groups, only then put them in the hall and put them to a vote.
ParlaMint-UA_2013-09-03-m0.u118	Thank you. I'd like to give the floor to Anatoly Arkady Maximus, a minute. Please. Let's get out of here. Ladies and gentlemen, attention. Did you turn on the microphone?
ParlaMint-UA_2013-09-03-m0.u119	It's based on this law that's technical in nature, and we're classifying it as appropriate. Already all CIS countries and European countries, and most other countries have done so, we have to bring them. We have a system in 2007, and they're all working on the 2012 system. This is the main part of the law, and I would like to adopt this bill in the first reading, and everything that concerns other issues, then, when you look at the second reading, you can think about it, create working groups and so on, and accept it in the second reading. Thank you.
ParlaMint-UA_2013-09-03-m0.u120	Ladies and gentlemen, the discussion is over. I beg your attention, everyone, please sit down, I'll put the bill to the vote. Well, what is it? There'll be a break, everyone there will be a conversation, everyone will tell you where they were, what they were and what they were doing. Please sit down. Someone breaks his leg, that's how you run when the vote goes. Let's move on to making a decision. There is the conclusion of the committee that the law is to be adopted as a basis. So I'm going to be the first to ask that question, and if not, we're going to be the first to determine. I'm betting on the vote on the draft Act (Registration No. 2105a) amending the Ukrainian Customs Tariff, approved by the Ukrainian Customs Tariff Act (new edition) for adoption as a basis. Please vote. [[13:33:27]] For 217 Against 10, held – 83, did not vote – 74. The decision is not taken. The factions. Region Party 178, Fatherland 0, Vitalia Klicka 0, Freedom 0, Ukrainian Company 32, non-fractional 7. The proposal was made, please note, the National Deputies, to send the Committee for further preparation for the re-reading of the draft Law registration number 2105a. People's deputies, please vote for this. [[13:34:25]] For 258. Against 0, held – 47, not a vote – 81. Decision taken. The factions. Region Party 178, Fatherland – 0, Vitalia Klicka – 38, Freedom – 0, Ukrainian Company – 32, non-fractional – 10. The law is sent to the committee for further work. Let's move on. A draft Law amending the Ukrainian Tax Code on Improving the Tax Taxation of People who Get Domestic Fuel in accordance with Ukrainian Mining Law (draft Law 2841) is under consideration. How will we view it? I'll bet the vote on a reduced procedure. Please vote. [[13:35:43]] For 175 Against 74, held – 4, not voted – 129. Decision taken. The factions. I invite you to report to the First Deputy Minister of Energy and Coal Industry, Igor Mikolaiovich Popovic. Then he's head of the committee. Two minutes. Please.
ParlaMint-UA_2013-09-03-m0.u121	Thank you. Dear Vladimir Vasilovich! Dear National Deputies! Ukraine's proposal to amend Ukraine's Tax Code to improve the taxation of the tax category of persons who receive domestic fuel in accordance with Ukraine's Mining Act has been developed to implement the National Plan of Action for the Implementation of the 2010-2014 Economic Reform Programme. The purpose of adopting the bill is to release the pensioners of closed coal and coal - processing enterprises from paying taxes by peat briquettes. The listed category of persons resides in a bourgeois basin in areas of closed bourgeois mining enterprises and is eligible for domestic fuel under article 48 of the Ukrainian Mining Law. The adoption of the draft law will reduce costs for the disposal of unsuspecting coal companies, since the supply and delivery of coal to the territory of Kirovograd and Cherkas region is much more expensive, and briquettes have historically been burned. Project. agreed without notice by the Ministry of Economic Development and Trade of Ukraine, the Ministry of Finance and the Ministry of Revenue and Assembly of Ukraine, by the Central Committee of Coal Industries. Please support the bill.
ParlaMint-UA_2013-09-03-m0.u122	Igor Mikolaiovich, where is the minister now?
ParlaMint-UA_2013-09-03-m0.u123	I'm on my way.
ParlaMint-UA_2013-09-03-m0.u124	When did he leave for the boat?
ParlaMint-UA_2013-09-03-m0.u125	After the meeting, he left immediately for the ship.
ParlaMint-UA_2013-09-03-m0.u126	After the meeting? This is what I say to all the deputies: this is the last time the deputy minister will report. [[Applause]] I'll take all the government laws off the record if the head of the ministry doesn't report. This is the Prime Minister's letter, it says "the Minister will report." And he's got to go on a trip. Report to the deputies and then leave. Yeah, that's the last time. I'm asking you to pass it on. Sit down! I ask the head of the Committee on Tax and Customs Policy, Vitaly Yuriovich Hometicnik. Please.
ParlaMint-UA_2013-09-03-m0.u127	Thank you. Dear Vladimir Vasilovich, distinguished colleagues! This is about the possibility of providing social benefits in the Tax Code for people who want to receive peat briquettes. So that they do not pay taxes on the income of individuals. Today, such benefits are available for coal and coal briquettes. But there is a need, and the appropriate ministry has called for such a legislative initiative to increase the benefits, to extend the benefits to the peat briquettes for those who want to take free of charge for their own needs. Thus, the bill, submitted by the government, was supported by the committee and recommended that it be adopted in the first reading. Yet there are two other bills related to it, 2842, a change from the Budget Code to the Mining Law of Ukraine, 2843. So before this bill is prepared for second reading, there is also a need for these bills to be considered together, perhaps even voted in general. Because today, September and not too soon before the need for fuel and heating is needed. Thank you for your attention. Request: Support.
ParlaMint-UA_2013-09-03-m0.u128	Thank you. Have a seat. Ladies and gentlemen, is there a need for discussion? [[B in m in s a l in]] Is it or isn't it? Dear national MPs, one word of the law is to add to the people, who are on the house peat, why discuss? What's not clear? Sit down, we won't discuss it. [[B in m in s a l in]] I'll bet you a vote. [[B in m in s a l in]] You may not vote. Don't vote if you don't want to. Why spend an hour? You'll tell me. One word is the law. Let's give people coal and give them peat. I am voting on the draft Act (No. 2841) amending the Ukrainian Tax Code to improve the taxation of the tax category of persons who receive domestic fuel in accordance with the Ukrainian Mining Act, for adoption as a basis and as a whole. Please vote, then we'll talk, then we'll talk, let's vote. Vote. [[13:41:54]] For 331 Zero, zero, zero, no vote, 51. Decision taken. The factions. What are your motives? That's enough. We write laws, we look at 40-50s, and we look at everything. How? They've been talking, haven't they? Catch. Let's get to work, enough. Dear people's deputies, well, I'm asking you very much. A draft Act (No. 2188) on the amendment of the Basic Health Law of Ukraine is under consideration (for terms of contract with heads of public, municipal health institutions). How do we view it? Is it full? And here they're offering a short cut. I'm voting on a reduced procedure. [[13:43:15]] For-161 Against 65. We're holding on to seven. We didn't vote - 142. Decision taken. The factions. Region Party – 159, "Paternity" – 0, "Klitka Vitalia" – 0, "Freedom" – 0, The Company – 0, "Afterfractional" – 2. I beg you, Irina Dmitrovna Spirin, Ukrainian National Deputy, please report.
ParlaMint-UA_2013-09-03-m0.u129	Reverend Volodymyr Vasilovich, distinguished national deputies! Your attention is drawn to the proposed Law (2188) amending article 16 of the Basic Law on Health Care. In recent years there has been an increase in the practice of contracting public health officials for only one year. This practice is considered shameful. In order to implement long - term programs, the manager needs some freedom to carry out his professional duties and time to achieve results. On the basis of part nine of article 16 of the Ukrainian Law on the Basics of Ukrainian Health Law, the heads of state public health institutions are appointed to office by contracting with him. The contract is always of a professional nature. Because of a short contract, public health officials feel a sense of uncertainty in the future, becoming more guided, more dependent on the abuse of higher management and external pressure. Their main efforts will be to obtain a position rather than a position. The task of reforming the health sector today. Thus, the chief physicians become hostages either in a political situation or in a personal relationship with their leaders. The main criterion must be, first of all, professionalism alone, responsibility for the matter entrusted. The adoption of this law is designed to protect the labour rights of public health officials. It is proposed to adopt amendments to article 16 of the Ukrainian Law on the Basics of Ukrainian Health Legislation, which defines the term of the contract no less.
ParlaMint-UA_2013-09-03-m0.u130	Let me finish. Finish up.
ParlaMint-UA_2013-09-03-m0.u131	The main regulatory act to regulate the issue is the Constitution of Ukraine, the Basics of Ukrainian Health Law, the Code of Laws on the Work of Ukraine. The bill has been finalized. It does not carry any legislative acts, any additional financial costs from the state budget of Ukraine. Please support this bill. It's very important today in our field. Thank you.
ParlaMint-UA_2013-09-03-m0.u132	Thank you. Have a seat. I ask the Head of the Health Committee of Tetjana Dmitrovna Bachteev. Please.
ParlaMint-UA_2013-09-03-m0.u133	Dear Vladimir Vasilovich! Dear National Deputies! Bill 2188 was considered at the meeting of our Health Committee on March 20, this year. It proposes to introduce in a new edition article 16 on the basis of Ukrainian legislation on health protection. It foresees that the heads of public and municipal health institutions are appointed to serve by a three - year contract with them. The main scientific and expert office believes that the first reading of this bill can be used as a basis. According to the committee, the problem addressed by the bill is very relevant. On July 7, 2011, the Supreme Council of Ukraine introduced changes to the basics of Ukrainian health legislation, which introduced a contractual form of appointment of directors of public and municipal health institutions. At the same time, the Ministry of Health has not yet regulated its orders nor the arrangements for contracts with such managers nor the deadlines for which they can make contracts. Hence, each region now decides on its own reasoning, based solely on the general provisions of the Law on Local Self - Government and the Labour Code. As a result, a contract with the heads of public and municipal health institutions is concluded for only one year. And this has a negative impact on the quality of public health care and the destabilization of the normal functioning of health facilities. In our view, contracts with heads of public and municipal health institutions should be concluded for at least three years and preferably five years. Of course it's a bill.
ParlaMint-UA_2013-09-03-m0.u134	Finish up.
ParlaMint-UA_2013-09-03-m0.u135	Needs improvement. And our committee, if you all, honourable colleagues, vote, will work for the second reading, and all the flaws will be dealt with. And this is a very important bill, please vote. Thank you.
ParlaMint-UA_2013-09-03-m0.u136	Thank you. Have a seat. I'm representing the government in the Supreme Council. Tealenco? Kachur Alexander Yuriovich, the first Deputy Minister of Health, should be present in the consideration of the matter. Where is he? Where he is, I wonder what you're showing me. I'll do it again. Today is the last day when this can be done. to refer to members of the Supreme Council. That's not gonna happen! [[B in m in s a l in]] Remember, all of you! I'm going to take the questions off tomorrow, we're going to deal with the question of only MPs. I'll be with you in a minute, Hani Herman. [[B in m in s a l in]] I'll give it all to you! Please.
ParlaMint-UA_2013-09-03-m0.u137	Dear Mr. Head! We ask you now on live to contact the Prime Minister of Ukraine and ask him to have the Cabinet of Ministers come to the Parliamentary Hall not only when it is necessary to dress up in front of the President. They should come to the attention of very important issues. The question that is being considered is extremely important. In assigning medical personnel in the regions under the so-called contracts, corruption flourishes, and so-called one-year contracts are just a tool for corruption and their mechanism. And the fact that the majority of MPs raised this question, and the fact that the committee head supported this issue, and that we're going to vote, and the fact that the health minister doesn't care, and she hasn't found the opportunity to come to Parliament to talk this serious is a very disturbing symptom.
ParlaMint-UA_2013-09-03-m0.u138	Thank you. I'm asking for a discussion on the registration of national deputies from factions. I'm asking you, Vitaly Klitschka Faction, Oxana Prodan. Please.
ParlaMint-UA_2013-09-03-m0.u139	Please pass the word Kowalczuk Vitalija Anatoliyovich.
ParlaMint-UA_2013-09-03-m0.u140	Vitalia Kowalczuku, please pass it on.
ParlaMint-UA_2013-09-03-m0.u141	Vitaly Kowalczuk, Faction of Vitaly Klicka. Dear Vladimir Vasilovich, we support your firm position on respect for the National Deputies on the side of the Cabinet of Ministers, but I want to remind you that we also require that you also respect the right of every National MP at least to speak. And I would like to remind you that in accordance with article 34, third, of the Rules Act, every MP has a guaranteed right to speak, at least one representative from each issue of the agenda. So once again, we stress that you should not violate the Rules and if there is a requirement to discuss drafts, you should give us that opportunity. That's the first one.
ParlaMint-UA_2013-09-03-m0.u142	I take criticism!
ParlaMint-UA_2013-09-03-m0.u143	Thank you. As far as this bill is concerned, the strike party faction will support this bill and we will vote in favour. Thank you.
ParlaMint-UA_2013-09-03-m0.u144	Thank you. Thank you. Freedom Union, National MP Melnik.
ParlaMint-UA_2013-09-03-m0.u145	Please pass the word to Saint Hanenko.
ParlaMint-UA_2013-09-03-m0.u146	Pass it on, please.
ParlaMint-UA_2013-09-03-m0.u147	Sveslav Hanenko, faction of the All-Ukrainian Freedom Union. Dear colleagues, the entire faction of the All-Ukrainian Union "Freedom" will support this bill with the hope that it will bring about this chaotic state of health management, and the disastrous situation that is there, the positive changes, stabilizing the adoption and organization of the work of industry leaders. We will support this bill. But at the same time, the faction takes note that when John sneezes at Stephen and the ministry at the faction of the Party of the Regions, it is clear between you and the ministers you appoint and who you work with, how you run the programs. Please make an offer to listen to the Minister of Health on the Supreme Council Committee for further interaction. Thank you.
ParlaMint-UA_2013-09-03-m0.u148	Thank you. Deputy of the Trinity city of Kiev, Fatherskina faction, Yavorowski. Please.
ParlaMint-UA_2013-09-03-m0.u149	I give my word to my lovely neighbor, Mikola Tomenka.
ParlaMint-UA_2013-09-03-m0.u150	Please.
ParlaMint-UA_2013-09-03-m0.u151	Dear colleagues, our faction will support this bill, and what it means is that unfortunately we will not change the situation radically by this bill, because we are living in a situation where almost two years ago in Ukraine, I remind you, medical reform is under way. And I think it would be fair for a minister we've never seen alive in Parliament to come here and inform us that this is a medical reform for an average Ukrainian in two years. And it's not just a question of assignments, it's a question, in my opinion, of the flaw of the strategy that is being implemented today. I would advise you to read the last analytical report on the medical reform in Russia, where today it became clear that the approach, which, by the way, Ukraine is copying in Russia today, is completely flawed, and Russia today is moving away from the approach when small hospitals are being destroyed, the FAPs are closing down. And we're copying this fashion. And for today, rural medicine is actually going to get used to it. Second position. Friends, it's not a problem that's assigned for a year, for three, although it's very important. In fact, what is the doctor in charge today? The chief physician is a nomenclature position of a non-district district administration; it is a nomenclature position of a community or a paradise of the Party of the Regions. Have you ever seen a living head doctor not a member of the Party of Regions? I didn't see, for example, in the Cherkas region. Moreover, in the Cherkas region, we have chief doctors from the Donetsk region. In order to strengthen medicine in the Cherkas region, we take it from the Donetsk region of the doctor, buy it a quart, because there are no doctors prepared in Chercas, and they start to run. For a transitional period at all, I would ban the party from having the chief physicians think, not about the party, but about the patients. Because today, the school principal and the chief physician are a party nomenclature. So it is right to strengthen the independence of doctors. But the most important thing is to remove partisanism, remove corruption, and allow doctors to think about patients, not the party.
ParlaMint-UA_2013-09-03-m0.u152	Thank you. The faction of the Ukrainian Company, the national deputy of Bidovka.
ParlaMint-UA_2013-09-03-m0.u153	The faction of the Company, Vladimir Biyovka. Dear comrades, the Communist faction has taken the initiative under this law, primarily to: lower the level of corruption in the medical field; and improve the effectiveness of health care. Because today, the head of each enterprise must work to ensure long-term development and improve medical facilities. Don't think about who he needs to take the money to stay in office next year. And, of course, today it's a personnel issue of what the Communists are always talking about. Indeed, the collapse of the Soviet health system today has led not only to severe human hunger, such as medicine, nurses and doctors, but also to the leadership of the chiefs. Because today, the education of the head doctor, the doctor, the management in medicine, it's all going to have to be a school, and sometimes we have these deadlines that, let's say, one year later, you have, let's say, re-testing, re-contracting, often manipulated. Among other things, local or other authorities are also being manipulated when the elections are near. Thank you. The Communist faction reiterates its support for the bill and requests all medical personnel to support the bill.
ParlaMint-UA_2013-09-03-m0.u154	Please, Vladimir Mikhailovich Litwin. They've already done it. This is probably the last one, and we'll be making decisions.
ParlaMint-UA_2013-09-03-m0.u155	Dear Vladimir Vasilovich, distinguished colleagues! I'm in the process of developing what Mikola Tomenko said -- it really is. But in my time, I remember a decision was made, the heads of the district government voluntarily signed, that they would be nonsecret, and we had no absolute problems. Because, depending on who's in power, we have a change in partying, "Our Ukraine," "Our Fatherland," the Party of Regions. And this is going to continue until we can get the doctors to look at it, the chief doctors, like the political force reserve, as well as the school principals. This bill must be absolutely adopted so that they do not depend on political conditions for years. It's desirable that there be five or maybe six years to have a roof between the presidential elections. But at the same time, I'd like to ask your colleagues to support this law and to prepare a second reading to help us with the results of medical reform as a result of how much more medical leaders we have in place. I'll give you some help, dear fellows.
ParlaMint-UA_2013-09-03-m0.u156	Let me finish.
ParlaMint-UA_2013-09-03-m0.u157	As far as the Rules are concerned, let's not demean ourselves, but the same MPs are two, and the other one is one minute. Let's end this totalitarian practice. Honorable colleagues, now with regard to the example. Earlier in Novograd Wallinsky and the district there was a medical director, the head physician of the meskrailicarni. Now as a result of the reform, what do we have? The district chief of health, the head of the city’s health department, the chief medical doctor, the chief medical doctor, and the chief medical doctor of disaster medicine, the whole reform. The money was properly channelled. Hence, in addition to the second reading, a correction would have to be made in this regard. The bill, in my view, needs to be taken as a basis in the first reading. Thank you.
ParlaMint-UA_2013-09-03-m0.u158	Thank you. A minute of national MP Zharavsky and from the strike faction the minute will be, and we'll make a decision, and then I'll call it a break. Please.
ParlaMint-UA_2013-09-03-m0.u159	Dear colleagues, this bill is usually worth paying attention because it allows local authorities to choose their own terms of contract with the head of the relevant health institution. The arguments here are, we're going to vote in favour. But for the purity of the experiment and for the truth, in many regions there are worthy members of the Parenthood Party, who are the chief physicians. For example, in the Dnipropetroval Head of the maternity home, a woman, a member of the district council is a member of Fatherland, that's the answer to my colleague. Thank you.
ParlaMint-UA_2013-09-03-m0.u160	From the strike faction, among ourselves, the people's deputy Rosenko, a minute and we're making a decision.
ParlaMint-UA_2013-09-03-m0.u161	Paul Rosenko, strike faction. I, too, want to support my colleague Kowalczuk on the need for speeches by all national deputies. You're saying that it's really like the phrase in the bill is changing. What should we do? But look at that bill when they only give us peat. After six months, the government will bring us some more briquettes, some more tirs, so we can solve this issue once and for all, by providing coal miners with alternative fuels, no, we are doing legislation again. With regard to this bill, it is clear that the impact faction supports the independence of medical personnel, budgetary education and so on. But what I want to say is that for those categories of citizens, question number one is that today the government has actually frozen these people's wages. He freezes all the allowances, freezes the pensions, people get the maximum wage. This is due to the fact that the government has so far failed to change Ukraine's state budget to the Supreme Council.
ParlaMint-UA_2013-09-03-m0.u162	Thank you. I ask the attention of the national deputies to prepare for the vote. I am voting on the draft Law (No. 2188) amending the Constitution of Ukrainian Health Law (for terms of contract with heads of state, municipal health institutions) for adoption as a basis. Please vote. [[14:03:37]] For 321 The morning session is closed. Break. At 16 hours we will continue the session of the Supreme Council of Ukraine.
