ParlaMint-UA_2013-04-02-m0.u1	Good afternoon, distinguished national deputies, invited and guests of the Supreme Council of Ukraine! People's deputies, please prepare for registration. Turn on the "Race" system. There were 403 national deputies registered in the hall. Deputies! Today is the birthday of the National Deputy of Ukraine, Mirimsky Lviv Yuliyovich. Let's say hello to him on his birthday. [[Applause]] Announcement. In accordance with article 60 of the Rules of the Supreme Council of Ukraine, as well as with the minutes of the meeting of the MP of the Party of the Regions since April 1, I report that the Vice-President of the Party of the People's Republic of Samilenka Jurija Pavlovich has been relieved of his duties and that he has been elected as the deputy head of the Party of the People's Deputies of the Party of the People's Deputies of Ukraine Bondarenko Olena Anatoliyovni, Zrabinsky Oleg Aleksandrovič, Kinaha Anatolia Kirilovich, Kozuba Alexandr Andryovich, King Oleg Anatoliovich and Shenev Dmitr Aleksiowiovich. We wish them success in their work. In accordance with article 60 of the Rules of the Supreme Council of Ukraine, I report on the creation in the Supreme Council of Ukraine of the seventh vocation of an interfractional parliamentary association "For the Conservation of the Natural Complex "Bilican Forest". The National Deputy of Ukraine Kutov Vijacheslav Grigorovovich was elected head of the Interfractional Association for the Conservation of the Natural Complex. In accordance with article 60 of the Rules of the Supreme Council of Ukraine, I report on the creation in the Supreme Council of Ukraine of the seventh interfractional parliamentary association "For Overcoming the AIDS, Tuberculosis and Viral Hepatitis." An interfractional MP has been elected as the National Deputy of Ukraine, Orobec Lesu Jurijovna. Dear National Deputies, in accordance with article 25 of the Rules, we have 30 minutes on Tuesday for statements by authorized members of the MPs with proposals, announcements, statements, reports. I'd like the factions to sign up for the performance. The faction of the Party of the Regions, the People's Deputy of China. Please, People's Deputies Day.
ParlaMint-UA_2013-04-02-m0.u2	Dear Volodymyr Vasilovich, honourable deputies! I considered and considered the primary task of the Supreme Council to be a work in favour of Ukraine and its people. Not so often I perform in the session room, but today I decided that my many years of work experience and my age in the local self-government organs allow me to stand by the rostrum, look into your eyes and ask the following. Is it because I'm going to speak in this room in an imperfect Ukrainian language, and I'm afraid your attitude towards me will improve, and my evaluation of my activity will increase? Is it more important for you to speak about Ukraine in what language than what it says and does for it? In my opinion, neither the Russian language nor the language of other national minorities can pose a threat to the Ukrainian language because it is a national language. I have the right to speak Russian in these walls because it's the language of my constituents.
ParlaMint-UA_2013-04-02-m0.u3	Above all, the Constitution of Ukraine and the laws of Ukraine on the Rules of the Supreme Council of Ukraine allow me to do so. That is why I appeal to the opposition, let's abide by the laws of Ukraine, stop playing the language card, stop acting. It's time to get to work. Today, unfortunately, the work of our Parliament is not an example to the councils of all levels, but rather to the contrary. The rural, urban, district councils in most regions of Ukraine have shown us an example of stable and concrete work. They cannot afford to be insolently idle, empty-minded, and political farce. From day to day, they address the issues of heat and water, economic development, salaries, rehabilitation of kindergartens, schools, hospitals and many others. This is done despite the presence of representatives of various parties, factions and nationalities. This is an example of integration and tolerance. What about us? How should we view people? What's happening in these walls today is a disgrace. I represent a multinational Crimea in which all Crimeans are making tremendous efforts to preserve peace and tranquillity. And it's not as easy and simple as it might seem from Kiev. In the capital of Crimea – in Simferopol you can walk through Franco Boulevard, the streets of Lesi Ukraine, Bogdan Hmelnicki, Gogol, Kotsubinski, named in the 1950s. You can visit both the park and the cinema of the name Shevchenka, the Academy of Ukrainian Music Theatre, the Modern Republican Library called Franco. What's the list for? In fact, no one in Crimea ever dared to desecrate the monuments of Taras Shevchenk and Ivan Franco. Over the years of independence, no member of the village, district, urban, Supreme Council of Autonomy has come up with the idea of renaming any of these streets in response to such actions in other regions. I'm addressing members of the Freedom faction, colleagues, stop! Do you not understand that your radicalism does not increase the position of the Ukrainian language, but it does give rise to the opposite reaction! Is it not understandable that making love a force for love is tantamount to rape? In December 2004, when I, like other members of the Russian-language delegation at the meeting of all levels in Kharkiv, when the country was at the edge of the gap, called on all participants in those events to prevent the country from breaking up. We saved Ukraine then. Radicalism, in no form or form, brings any good to our statehood and Ukrainian language. When I convinced the Crimean deputies that it was necessary to build a modern Ukrainian high school from the Crimean budget, charges of Russophobia were against me from the radicals and the remains of the mask. I do not want my statement today to be taken in the same position. Only on the opposite side. We are all different, and we have many different nationalities, religions, customs. At the same time, I am sure that the Ukrainian language needs State support. It is only necessary to do so on the pages of newspapers and books, in films and in theatres, not at rallys, not at barricades, and not in this room. I understand how difficult it is to overcome political passions, personal ambitions, career expectations. That is why I appeal to the people's deputies of the Seventh Congress: let us see, not the enemies and the opponents, but the representatives of their constituents, who have them.
ParlaMint-UA_2013-04-02-m0.u4	Please let me finish.
ParlaMint-UA_2013-04-02-m0.u5	There are calls for Koliyushka in this room, but we have no right to triple another Crute for the children. We only have one way out of this: to find a compromise. Not for himself, not for the party, but for the people and their interests! I have lived many years and seen everything, but no matter how God has measured me, I dream of living this time in a prosperous and happy Ukraine. So I remember that we have many, and Ukraine has one. Thank you for your attention! Thank you for your attention!
ParlaMint-UA_2013-04-02-m0.u6	The Vitalia Klitschka faction, the leader of the faction, Vitaly Klitschko, please.
ParlaMint-UA_2013-04-02-m0.u7	Dear Chairman, dear colleagues! Today, each of us must make a very important commitment. Any city, village, or capital of Ukraine cannot exist without legitimate power. So today we are obliged to appoint city heads and city councils in Kiev. Today, now, under the walls of the Supreme Council there are thousands of Chinese, and you don't need illusions, you don't have to yell at them with an artificial rally that's now being held under the protection of the militia. They won't be driven out just because 10. They will not be ignored because the authorities in Kiev have done enough to send her away. That is why the authorities today are clinging to the truth and not the truth. Today, power is incurable throughout the country. In Sevastopol, in the local elections, a candidate for "Stack" is trying to get out of the race illegally. Pressure and bribery, a card to prepare the authorities for local elections and other communities as well. Taking out the kinks is a chain of the same chain. But, dear fellows, there are things more important than any political calculation, these are fundamental rights and freedoms of citizens, and violating them is a very serious crime. The illegal transfer of elections in Kiev will be the same crime, for one of the most important responsibilities of Parliament will be assigned to the elections. This duty will not be protected by an administrative or constitutional court, not by any other court. I am addressing the Head of the Supreme Council. Vladimir Vasilovich, I am addressing the leader of the Party of Regions, to the leadership. Alexander Sergeyevich, let's go out to the people together. Please explain why you don't want the elections in Kiev to take place. Explain, please, not from the Supreme Council, explain to me from the warm studies, go out to the people and talk to them. I call on all colleagues, the Chinese must be given a guaranteed constitutional opportunity to choose power. Therefore, today, we should adopt a decree on the appointment of the next election of the city’s Kiev head and the deputies of the Kiev City Council. I still have a request. If possible, please produce a broadcast of a meeting of the Supreme Council on the street, because a thousand Chinese want to hear the debate on this issue. They are very interested in the question whether the elections in Kiev will take place or not? Or they'll be transferred back to a year or two, and they can cancel completely, so that they don't lose power. Thank you very much!
ParlaMint-UA_2013-04-02-m0.u8	Faction of the Ukrainian Company Simonenko Peter Mikolaiovich.
ParlaMint-UA_2013-04-02-m0.u9	"Freedom" please be prepared. Dear colleagues! Respectable voters! Today, two bills are on the agenda of the Council, which are awaiting the majority of Ukrainian citizens. Their inclusion is determined by the principled position of the Company and our faction in Parliament, the abolition of the pension form and the return of the retirement age for women at 55 years of age, for men at 60 years of age. This is the abolition of medical reform, and this is the recovery of wages. Agitating you on the need to abolish pension reform in order to increase the retirement age and, accordingly, the necessary work experience I will not be. Dear colleagues! Most of you who are sitting in this room have promised and continue to promise their voters to abolish this pension reform. I would like to draw your attention to the second bill, number 2547, on the introduction of a pension of 0.5 per cent of total arrears in the event of non-payment of wages, scholarships, pensions and other statutory payments or delays. The bill deals with the most sinister topic for millions of people on the non-payment and delay of wages, which has for many years become a sad norm for Ukraine. Today, the officially registered salary debt exceeded 1 billion grevens, in fact, given the shadow economy and the pay in envelopes, this figure is much higher. Such debts vary from one month to more than one year. I don't want to talk about how much money I've received from the Pension Fund, how much money I haven't paid in the form of taxes, and I'm saying that the debt to pay is hundreds of thousands of families that don't have livelihoods, can't feed themselves and their children, pay for housing and buy the drugs that they need. I would like to recall that, as early as 2011, the President had been tasked with eliminating arrears on wages as a priority and entrusted this to the Cabinet of Ministers, Governors and City Measures. What do we see after a year and a half? Ministers are changing, governors are changing, and the debt is only growing, as there is a corresponding article in the Criminal Code and the prosecution can be punished. By the way, prosecutors and officials. Ms. Queen told us that, even in the public economy, debt was solved by only 15 per cent. It is difficult to say where and how it has been reduced, but I understand very well that if the problem is resolved as decided by the mayor of the city of Suma Minaev, there will be no explanation. In sums, urban authorities have not paid the salaries of utility workers for several months. People are ready to declare a strike on April 8th, and the mayor, instead of standing up in front of unpaid workers on his knees and asking them for forgiveness for not paying his salary instead of looking for money, threatens people with dismissal. And he's not alone. However, all such electors everywhere are singing themselves as passionate fighters for European values. It turns out that free slave work is for them and there are Western values for which they bury their utilities and the people who work honestly in these enterprises. We see such problems in many cities. I could give examples from Luhansk and Lviv, I might recall the great and painful problem of Dnepropetrovska, where communists have been fighting for three years to pay the metrostroves back. This applies only to public and municipal enterprises, and debt in the private sector is growing in an uncontrollable manner. Under the form of fictitious bankruptcy, their owners are exempt from their payroll obligations. The bill we are proposing will, first of all, allow for the impact of unrelenting employers and the impact of pennies on their pockets. Secondly, it is some way to restore the element of social justice when a person waits for months to pay, and inflation depreciates it daily, and the person responsible for the delay has to compensate for it from his pocket. This is our job to ensure that the oligarchs are specifically accountable to workers who have not been paid this salary for months and years. The State - I call your attention to this, distinguished colleagues - quickly and willingly appoints a penalty to delay the payment of public services. People who, due to their lack of pay, have nothing to pay for the utility, so let the State also pay a pension to its employees, to whom it is detaining their salaries. I would like to draw your attention once again to the fact that the previous decisions have indeed imposed a penalty on the late payment of public services. Thus, the right of bankers and oligarchs to take one or the other is granted. Take away apartments that are especially at stake. I call on all factions to vote in favour of the proposed bill. This should be the first step towards a systematic approach to addressing this sick and very important problem for many of our citizens. We understand that this is not the only bill necessary to combat this scourge, but the first step is necessary. We, in turn, guarantee that the Company's faction will support other political forces' bills aimed at overcoming the country's wages and actually helping our citizens. You can finish. Thank you.
ParlaMint-UA_2013-04-02-m0.u10	Freedom faction, Pullside. National Deputy Illenko.
ParlaMint-UA_2013-04-02-m0.u11	Glory to Ukraine! Respectable Society! I wanted to speak to the chairman at the meeting at the beginning so we could get a wire out on the street, because there are now thousands of kyans who are actually expecting today from the Supreme Council to carry out their constitutional powers and to appoint elections in Kiev. And actually, from this point of view, I would like to start my speech, because today the situation in Kiev has gone really, really into a dead end, and it needs an immediate and one-off solution -- elections, what citizens have the right to decide for themselves. Today the city of Kiev is deprived of that right. It didn't start today, it didn't start yesterday. This began in 2010, when the Party of Regions came to power and eliminated the district councils in Kiev. After that, they actually destroyed the city’s headship and, to this day, their goal is to prevent elections in Kiev at all. We saw what happened a week ago in Kiev, when this snowy collapse took place, which was the inaction of power, which was cynicism, which was the isolation of people who were unwilling to do nothing and absolute inactivity. In fact, it was only because the Chinese were united that the Chinese formed volunteer groups that managed to resolve the situation with the snowstorms in Kiev. In fact, there is today a critical situation with local self - government in Ukraine. Because this applies more than just Kiev, we see a situation throughout Ukraine where local councils are taken away. Throughout Ukraine, we see that even those local budgets are being taken to the center today, and today cities, villages, villages are not being given the opportunity to run the farm, there is no way to solve their local problems. And actually today we're seeing, for example, a violent situation in the Ternopil region, where since 2010, imagine, 16 district council deputies are not elected by the list, because the territorial commission where the regionals sit, the communists and, by the way, the Lithuanians, they don't make a technical decision, and for 2.5 years now, Ternopil has not been able to function fully in his district constituency. We see in general the disastrous situation with the peoples of Ukraine, because in the face of the total economic failure of all the so-called pseudo-reforms that the government of Azarov led by President Yanukovic, in the face of a complete failure of international politics, there is nothing left of them in the face of a complete lack of support within the state, except to go to the open usurpation of power, in the open disregard of the Constitution. What we're hearing right now is these terrible initiatives about the holding of a so-called referendum, which is in general. By the way, this Referendum Act adopted in the last days of Parliament's work last time, it needs to be abolished in general. So the goal is to hold a referendum, where they want to hold it in August, when they say it's a dead political season, in order to elect the President on a single tour, so that in Ukraine they can make a bicameral parliament according to the 100 percent majority majority system. What about Ukraine’s bicameral parliament? It's a splinter of Ukraine! And this is actually what they're working for -- the division of Ukraine and the usurpation of power in the hands of today's President, who's losing fast support. [[B in m in s a l in]] We actually realize that all these policies, all these actions that the Party of Regions is doing today, they don't even have a chance to explain to their voters why they're doing this anymore. Because today's election situation in Kiev, it's a litmus paper. Because that's already the limit that we're going to be in a completely different legal field. Because if, by means of the Handicap Constitutional Court, it is possible to cancel the elections in Kiev that are due in June of this year, then, in 2015, it will also be possible to submit a motion to the Constitutional Court and state that, well, until the Constitutional Court takes a decision, we cannot hold the President's election. This is the scenario that they are apparently testing in Kiev today. Because the city of Kiev in the last parliamentary elections showed its position. When they went with the Greek, when they went with the administrative resources, when they went with everyone, with this set, the master candidates, and they all lost. And none of them won. The Chinese have shown their attitude toward today’s regime. And that is why China is now deprived of its right to choose. That's what's forcing the Party of Regions today and their members of the Halluyun Communists not to support the elections in Kiev. In fact, it is only for this reason that they invent a variety of legal caseuistics and do not allow Ukrainians to exercise the right to their own authority, which is chosen by humans. But, society, all their screwdrivers have no meaning. Because we're Ukrainians! We're on our own! We're the masters! And we will win! The glory of Ukraine and the glory of the nation!
ParlaMint-UA_2013-04-02-m0.u12	The Fatherland faction, Yacenuk, National MP.
ParlaMint-UA_2013-04-02-m0.u13	Dear Boris Davidoch Daych, you have a wonderful Ukrainian language, and we thank you for speaking in English. Honourable Members of Parliament, Mr. Chairman! We have three questions in the opposition. The first question is about the election of the mayor of Kiev. The Ukrainian capital must have a mayor. A party of regions, you must openly and honestly admit that Popov must be a good person. But he is the head of the local government, more capital, to put it mildly, not the best. And you yourself should have taken the initiative, first, to postpone Popov and, secondly, to hold the election of Mayor Kiev. You didn't do it. You cleaned up the Kyiv City State Administration, and you had to clean the snow, the streets, you had to clean the capital. Why do we insist on the election of Mayor Kiev? For one thing, it is the insistence of the Kyiv community. How could there not be a legally elected mayor in the Ukrainian capital? A person who represents the interests of the community. Is there a mayor in Donetsk? Is there a mayor in Enoch? You don't think there'll be a mayor in Kiev? There will be a mayor in Kiev, and that will be the Kyiv mayor. We understand what you want to do. You realize you're losing the election. That's how you lose the presidential election. And no one will let you carry them. Don't doubt it. So, Mr. Chairman, our political opponents, Alexander Sergiyovich, let's try to show national wisdom today. The State's wisdom is to appoint elections, to put a dot on this issue, to tell the Chinese that they have the right to choose and to be elected by the Constitution, and to move on, and not to allow solely because of your political intrigues. The only legislative body in the country has put his work at stake again. That is why we demand and ask you today to vote on the election of Mayor Kiev. The other one. As far as pension reform is concerned. The honourable members of Parliament, which is lacking in Ukrainian politics, are honesty. You do realize that today's day-to-day pension reform isn't because the communists are so eager to abolish pension reform. And because there's a secret agreement between the communists and the Party of Regions. You let us put in order the day-to-day cancellation of pension reform, and then we'll start voting with you. We're ready to accept this so-called game of yours, because it's your narrow political game, but the result of this game should be the end of the shameful pension reform. Only we know that you've agreed with the Party of Regions that you're voting for this pension reform only on the first reading, and then you're going to be chasing a fool and saying, "In a month, in two, in three we're going to cancel it." Yes, well, listen carefully to the demands of the opposition. We have the Retirement Reform Act registered on the same day, it's much better than the Communist law, because it restores all the pensioners' rights that they have taken from the government of Azarov, who is appointed by the votes of the communists. We demand that the abolition of pension reform be voted down as a basis as a whole. Then the people of Ukraine will believe that there is order. [[Applause]] And the third. Mr. Chairman, we've forgotten about one very important question, namely, Parliament has forgotten. But the opposition did not forget. The opposition collected 174 signatures from the government of Azarov. Under the resignation of this government, which has adopted pension reform. Under the resignation of this government, which has adopted medical reform. Under the resignation of a government that has accepted tax reform. Under the resignation of the government. By the way, our government has a positive shift. It seems that in Eastern Europe, government number one is equal to corruption. There is no more corrupt government in Eastern Europe. And we demand that the question of the resignation of the Cabinet of Ministers of Ukraine be put into the order of the day once and for all. Those so-called opponents, who are under the roof of the Party of Regions, voted in favour of the resignation of the government -- two -- and for the Ukrainian government and the Ukrainian President to appear. Glory to Ukraine!
ParlaMint-UA_2013-04-02-m0.u14	Showtime's up. I'd like to have a word with you. Simonenko.
ParlaMint-UA_2013-04-02-m0.u15	Dear colleagues, I would like to inform you about the last speech that took place when the pension reform took place. I inform you that at the time, 248 national deputies voted in favour of the pension reform. The pension reform was adopted under the requirements of the International Monetary Fund. A party of regions, the Block of Lithuania, consisted of 208. 40 deputies voted – "Our Ukraine" (our own) and "Our Fatherland". This is who created the preconditions for this pension reform to take effect today. So here's a similar speech -- it's just a reminder of how many faces they really have today, and that's what it is. For those of you who are in the susses of the queue. So the faction of the Company once again claims its principled position that we were the only political party in Parliament that was opposed to pension reform -- that's what we are today. And all the others are the liars they are now speaking with in order to gain the confidence of the electorate on another occasion, and once again it proves that such politicians cannot be trusted.
ParlaMint-UA_2013-04-02-m0.u16	When do we get to work? Let's finish the lines. Please, Jacinyuk. And we're done. He's asking.
ParlaMint-UA_2013-04-02-m0.u17	Mr. Chairman, once again, I would like to remind you that the pension reform has been approved and submitted by the government, Prime Minister Mikolia Azarov, who was fully supported by the votes of the communists. Communists, you've been lying for 90 years. Well, when do you stop doing that and the money in the brothers' regionals?Oh, my God!
ParlaMint-UA_2013-04-02-m0.u18	The list, the honourable deputies, the list of issues that are proposed for discussion and decision-making today are available to you. So let's move on to their consideration. Question of the order of the day of the second session of the Supreme Council of the Seventh Assembly. Let's see. The Conciliation Board of Heads of Deputies decided to include in the agenda of the day-to-day second session all the bills registered as of March 18, 2013, as well as the bills proposed by the MPs. The draft agenda for the second session included one appendix, a list of bills that committees and factions propose not to be included in the agenda of the day session. Therefore, it is suggested that the day - to - day session be adopted as a basis for consideration of proposals by factions and national deputies regarding issues of conflict. And according to the part of the first article 21 and part of the first article 22 of the Supreme Council of Ukraine Rules, I am introducing a draft agenda for the day - to - day second session for approval by the Supreme Council. That's why we're going to the vote. I am voting on the basis of the draft Decree (No.2175) on the order of the day of the second session of the Supreme Council of Ukraine on the seventh call. Once again, for the adoption of the Decision as a basis. People's deputies, please vote. No extras. [[10:41:39]] For 398 Decision taken. 398 versus 0, holding back - 1, not voting - 24. The factions. Region Party - 182, Fatherland - 88, Vitalia Klicka - 39, Freedom - 36, Company - 31, non-fractional - 22. Ladies and gentlemen, there are proposals for factions, and there are proposals for national MPs. So if you agree, the faction's proposals could be put to the vote and approved. As for the people’s deputies, questions will be considered. What are the suggestions, please sign up, five minutes. Please sign up. Jeremiah, please.
ParlaMint-UA_2013-04-02-m0.u19	Please pass the word to Vladimir Mikhailovich Litvina.
ParlaMint-UA_2013-04-02-m0.u20	Vladimir Mikhailovich Litwin, please.
ParlaMint-UA_2013-04-02-m0.u21	Dear Vladimir Vasilovich, distinguished colleagues, I will take this opportunity to come up with something else, but it has a direct bearing on the organization of the work of the Supreme Council. Everything that's going on here, in the session room, reminds me of an actor's closet, where they're discussing each other, who's better at playing and who's better loved by the people, and who's better understood by the people. But there is no work because they voted on the basis of the elections in Kiev, it is equivalent to taking on the basis of the decree that May 5 would be Easter. Now, they're blaming each other. We need to make a decision and not be a hostage to the Constitutional Court. And now, essentially, that's the offer. Vote these plugins, then, in the process of consideration, first and second Chapters of Appendix 1. And in the process of practical consideration, the Supreme Council of Ukraine will determine which laws will be rejected, which ones will not. They can't be committees, they can't be factions, they can't be judges. We also have, Volodymyr Vasilovich, distinguished colleagues, whispers, at the level of faction leaders, and then they give as data. The postfractions don't know anything about it, and then the thrashings on the stand about what the people want. Let's get this over with.
ParlaMint-UA_2013-04-02-m0.u22	The Motherland Union, the Brigine.
ParlaMint-UA_2013-04-02-m0.u23	Fatherland's Caregiver, Oblon. Please pass on the word Petrenko.
ParlaMint-UA_2013-04-02-m0.u24	Please, National Deputy Petrenko.
ParlaMint-UA_2013-04-02-m0.u25	Dear Vladimir Vasilovich, we have two questions. Questions first in the daytime. On the Supreme Council website, there was a day-to-day project on the night of yesterday. It is different from the text that was given to the national deputies. So, in particular, there are a number of bills that have been tabled by MPs from Fatherland that have come into the main agenda of the day, according to the electronic system. But in this order of days that you gave us, somehow they're in Appendix 1. I'll call the numbers. This is Bill 1100, 2001, 2060 and 2354. I'm asking you very much, give an order to the Apparatus to remove this inaccuracies, because we have a question about the inaccuracies in the documents that are being handed out to the national MPs. That's the first one. And the second. Please announce your absence from the meeting of the Supreme Council, as required by the Rules. Thank you.
ParlaMint-UA_2013-04-02-m0.u26	The Freedom of Switzerland faction.
ParlaMint-UA_2013-04-02-m0.u27	Igor Schwaika, the All-Ukrainian Freedom Union. Please give the word to Yuri Orotyuk.
ParlaMint-UA_2013-04-02-m0.u28	Yuri Orotyuk, the All-Ukrainian Freedom Union. Dear Chairman, we ask you to include soundings on the street, a thousand Chinese want to see what is happening in this Parliament. Mr. Chairman, we demand that we include in the agenda a daily draft decree on the establishment of a temporary commission of inquiry by the Supreme Council of Ukraine to investigate the involvement of the Minister of Education and Science, Youth and Sports, Mr. Dmitry Volodymyrovich, in the theft of the values of Ukrainian historical and cultural foundations and the purpose and efficiency of the use of budgetary resources, Decree No. 2331 of 19.02. In 2013 Dear Chairman, this year Ukraine marks the 80th anniversary of the celebration of the Holocaust, the genocide of the Ukrainian nation. There's a draft decree for the leaders of the three factions. It is unacceptable not to include this draft decree in the consideration. We ask, not ask, to include in the first draft of decree 2185 on the 80th anniversary of Holodomor in Ukraine.
ParlaMint-UA_2013-04-02-m0.u29	Party of regions, Miroshnichenko.
ParlaMint-UA_2013-04-02-m0.u30	Thank you, Vladimir Vasilovich! Dear colleagues! In Appendix No 1, there are two bills where I am the author of these numbers 1074 of the bill concerning the rebirth of the symbol of Orthodoxy, the Church of the Virgin Mary. And shame, dear colleagues, despite the fact that we have several interfractional associations in our hall that speak of the restoration of spirituality and the maintenance of a high culture, unfortunately this bill was not included in the agenda, I ask him to put it to the vote. Just like Bill 1161, on the return of buildings in Pocaivska Lavra, where two thirds of buildings were handed over to Pocaivska Lavra and one third were not transferred. This is a request from our believers and I would like it to be put to the vote as well, I hope for your support. Thank you.
ParlaMint-UA_2013-04-02-m0.u31	The Fatherland faction, Jacinuk.
ParlaMint-UA_2013-04-02-m0.u32	Ruslan Petrovich Knazevich.
ParlaMint-UA_2013-04-02-m0.u33	Please turn it on.
ParlaMint-UA_2013-04-02-m0.u34	Vladimir Vasilovich! We do point out, however, that you have failed to comply with the requirements of the Rules and have failed to announce those who have not registered in writing at the registration tables. We made a deal with you, you said there was no objection. That's the first one.
ParlaMint-UA_2013-04-02-m0.u35	Let's take the message of the day.
ParlaMint-UA_2013-04-02-m0.u36	And the second. If possible, however, the Conciliation Council decided to include in the agenda all the bills that were registered for last Thursday. But then there were several government bills that were registered later than Thursday, Friday, and Monday alone. In view of this, there are a number of bills that have also been registered by deputies on Friday and Monday. So maybe we'll make a decision that if we vote, we're going to include everyone, not a four-point state, and then we're going to add a separate tail number under the noise, in such a conspiracy order. Thank you.
ParlaMint-UA_2013-04-02-m0.u37	The Freedom Union. And we're done. Miroshenko Igor.
ParlaMint-UA_2013-04-02-m0.u38	Please give Yuri Orotyuk a word.
ParlaMint-UA_2013-04-02-m0.u39	Pass it on, please.
ParlaMint-UA_2013-04-02-m0.u40	Mr. Chairman, once again, I would like to remind you that this year the Ukrainians are honoring the memory of the victims of the 1980s of the Holocaust, the genocide of the Ukrainian nation. There is an unacceptable lack of consideration. Each meeting of the Supreme Council should begin with a tribute to the memory of the victims of millions of Ukrainians who have not lived to this day. Unpunished evil always has the ability to return. Because we didn't punish this evil, we didn't learn its lessons, which is why we have a faction of communists and a party of regions in power today. We must, we must, it is our duty to our ancestors to honor the memory of the victims of the Holocaust. And, Your Honor Chairman, please turn on the sound. There are thousands of chinks on the street. Thank you.
ParlaMint-UA_2013-04-02-m0.u41	I'm asking you to put a broadcast on the street. [[Applause]] And check it out. It's from the Postfactions. And we'll make decisions.
ParlaMint-UA_2013-04-02-m0.u42	Oleg Lazko. Dear Vladimir Vasilovich, it is proposed not to include in the agenda of the day’s session bill 2457, where I am the author, on the release of political prisoners in Ukraine. I have a question, first of all, for the Head of the Supreme Council. I would like to know which faction proposes not to include this bill before consideration. And the second. Vladimir Vasilovich Ribak! Vladimir Vasilovich! Head! I'm talking to you! Chechetov, don't bother! Michael! Volodymyr Vasilovich, I address you! And I'm asking Chechchev not to interfere. I am asking questions to the Head of the Supreme Council. One faction suggested not to include in the agenda a bill on the release of political prisoners. I'm asking you to let me know. That's the first one. The other one. You refuse to address the issue of the release of political prisoners, and the question is not going anywhere. I demand that you include this question before.
ParlaMint-UA_2013-04-02-m0.u43	Let me finish.
ParlaMint-UA_2013-04-02-m0.u44	I demand that this matter be placed in the order of the day’s session, examined and released by Timoshenko, Lucenka, and other political prisoners. This is the disgrace that our whole country brings to the world. And the Parliament's job is to get rid of this disgrace. And I ask you as Head to tell us what faction against the consideration of the law on the release of political prisoners. Let the whole country know about these motherfuckers!
ParlaMint-UA_2013-04-02-m0.u45	Ladies and gentlemen, there's Appendix One. Let me put to the vote the questions that the MPs have. This is chapter one. The Fatherland faction. There are four laws. Does anyone insist on joining the agenda? He insists. [[B in m in s a l in]] I'll call the number right now. I'm calling the number. 1112 is a draft law amending the Ukrainian Criminal Code on the release from criminal liability of damages to the State concerned. Project of the Swedish People's Deputy. I'll bet you a vote. Who's in charge of putting the seventh session in order? Members, please vote. [[10:54:22]] For 184 Against 14, held – 73, not voted – 151. The decision is not taken. The factions. Region Party 5, Parentage Party 90, Vitaly Klitschko 37, Freedom 36, Company 0, non-fractional 16. We're voting. On the basis of the vote, I'll give it to you. 1210 The Act is a draft decision to assign the name of Amet Khan Sultan to the Simferopol International Airport. Project of the People's Deputy, Moskal. Please vote. [[10:55:24]] For 176 Against 30, held – 69, not voted – 146. The decision is not taken. Project 1141 is a draft decision to listen to information from the head of the National Council of Ukraine on television and radio broadcasting of Manjosov on the reasons for the exclusion of Radio Rada from the social package in some regions of Ukraine (the Tomenka People's Deputy Project). Please Tomenko.
ParlaMint-UA_2013-04-02-m0.u46	Dear colleagues, there's no need to make this decision, we took it out on the committee, because we preemptively held committee meetings, we heard information, and a few exceptions to our parliamentary channel in the South and the East were, yes, and in the West were stopped. Now these exceptions are off, so our Committee on Freedom of Speech has had enough influence. Therefore, our proposal is not to put into the order of the day because the conflict is exhausted.
ParlaMint-UA_2013-04-02-m0.u47	Do you agree with the MPs? Agreed. 2047 is a draft Act amending article 26. 1 The Ukrainian Road Traffic Act (as for temporary restriction or prohibition of traffic). The Pavlovsky National Deputy Project. I'll bet you a vote. [[10:57:09]] For 180. Counter-13, held-88, did not vote-142. The decision is not taken. The Faction of Freedom. A draft decree on the 80th anniversary of the Holocaust in Ukraine and a tribute to the memory of the victims of the genocide of the Ukrainian people. Project of the People's Deputies, Oleg Tagnabok. Please, author Tuggnibok, number 2185.
ParlaMint-UA_2013-04-02-m0.u48	Oleg Tuggnibok, faction of the All-Ukrainian Freedom Union. Respectable Society! [[B in m in s a l in]] The genocide of the Ukrainian nation — the Holodomor of 1932-1933 — has been acknowledged by many of the world’s parliaments. Nevertheless, this year we will bow our heads low and honor the memory of tens of millions of innocently destroyed Ukrainians! And I'd like to go first to those MPs who were elected by the people of the great Ukraine, the Central Ukraine, the Eastern Ukraine. It was there that the greatest atrocities of the great regime took place. Society! I swear to you, please! If we have national dignity, let us show a proper attitude toward this event! We must vote on this decree. And then our voters, many millions of generations of Ukrainians, will appreciate our move! Thank you. I hope you understand.
ParlaMint-UA_2013-04-02-m0.u49	I see there's a question. Please sign up, five minutes. There's a procedure, let's go. But you ask me to obey the Rules. The faction of the Party of the Regions, Pisarenko.
ParlaMint-UA_2013-04-02-m0.u50	Please pass the word to Hanna Herman.
ParlaMint-UA_2013-04-02-m0.u51	Anna Herman, please.
ParlaMint-UA_2013-04-02-m0.u52	Thank you. Dear friends! We all know that in November the world will celebrate the 80th anniversary of the Ice Age. And this date is all state legislation to mark this date. In particular, we know that in Washington, D.C., we have even begun to build the Memorial of Hunger. Therefore, all legislative acts to mark this important date in Ukraine were approved before this Parliament was convened. So we thank Freedom for the concern, but it's long done for them.
ParlaMint-UA_2013-04-02-m0.u53	Freedom Union, Peace.
ParlaMint-UA_2013-04-02-m0.u54	Please pass the word to Switzerland.
ParlaMint-UA_2013-04-02-m0.u55	National deputy of Schweik.
ParlaMint-UA_2013-04-02-m0.u56	Switzerland, the All-Ukrainian Freedom Union. Today there is a Jubilee year. The Jubilee year of the crime committed against the Ukrainian nation. As a native of Lugansk, who has spent half his life in Kharkishte, I call upon today all the national deputies from Kharkiv, Poltava, Donetsk, Lugansk. Either you repent today for the crimes committed by your predecessors, or you will continue their crimes that were committed in relation to my grandfather, our grandfathers, our great-grandparents, in Eastern Ukraine. For today, I urge you to do one thing. Respect for the victims of hunger is a tribute, not a celebration. Stop dancing on your bones. It is a day to pray and turn to the memory of our ancestors.
ParlaMint-UA_2013-04-02-m0.u57	Party of regions, Rudzkowski.
ParlaMint-UA_2013-04-02-m0.u58	Ladies and gentlemen, I'm addressing everyone, especially the Mayors. The question of hunger is that we are aware as national deputies of the attitude to our memory and to the memory of millions who have died from the regime in relation to our people. We should be like the Supreme Council, taking into account the fact that Ukrainians around the world are remembering this and taking action, taking stock of their position and taking a decision. Of course, from the political contradictions between the factions, we may be able to pummel it today. A joint decision may need to be prepared. But we must accept such a determination and honor the memory of those who died by the regime. I remember that one.
ParlaMint-UA_2013-04-02-m0.u59	"Paternity." National Deputy Brigine.
ParlaMint-UA_2013-04-02-m0.u60	Brigitte, Fatherland, Oblon. Dear colleagues, regardless of political views, we must vote in favour of this decree, first of all, so that no one thinks it's a celebration, as we heard in the hall today. It's a memory mark, after all. Second, what they respect about this date around the world is very important. But it is even more important that this veneration take place in Ukraine. Therefore, I urge everyone, regardless of their political views, to vote in favour of this decree.
ParlaMint-UA_2013-04-02-m0.u61	The last speaker. Easy. People's deputy Lazko. Five minutes, it's a deal. Sign up. Sign up.
ParlaMint-UA_2013-04-02-m0.u62	My time is coming. Oleg Lazko, Radical Party. Dear colleagues, making a policy on the bones of millions of innocently murdered Ukrainians is a great crime and a great sin. And so this is the question of marking the 80th anniversary of the great tragedy of the Ukrainian people -- this question is not at all to be discussed. The Supreme Council, if it is indeed the Ukrainian Supreme Council, has to make a decision and celebrate, it was rightly said that it was a tragedy, not a celebration. But I think that millions of souls of Ukrainians will rest there in the Kingdom of God only when we here on earth hold a new Nuremberg tribunal over the Communist Party, which destroyed these people, who killed Ukrainians, who destroyed our gene pool, who took our children's bread, took cows, took everything in the world. [[Applause]]
ParlaMint-UA_2013-04-02-m0.u63	We're done. Time's up. I'm betting on the vote Act 2185, the draft decree on the 80th anniversary of the Holocaust in Ukraine and the celebration of the memory of the victims of the genocide of the Ukrainian people. Please vote. [[B in m in s a l in]] [[The voices from the hall. Fascist! Fascist! Fascist!]] [[11:05:03]] For 210 The factions, please. Region Party 26, Parenthood 89, Vitalia Klicka, 39, Freedom 36, Company 0, non-factional 20. On the basis of the vote, Herman and Kyle. Please, you, Rosenko.
ParlaMint-UA_2013-04-02-m0.u64	Dear Mr. Head, the question that we are currently considering is extremely important. Regardless of the fact that the State has passed the Act on the Recognition of the Holocaust by Genocide in this Hall, despite the fact that there is both the President's Order and all other legal acts, if another decision is to be taken, it must be adopted in this Parliament. And do it together. And let this be a draft decree that will be written by all factions. Let's go back to that and invite representatives of all factions to prepare, register and today vote on the Bill of the 80th anniversary of the Holocaust in Ukraine.
ParlaMint-UA_2013-04-02-m0.u65	Five minutes on the basis of the vote. I'm asking the Rosenco faction. Then it's Kaida. I'll give it to all the factions. Rosetta, please.
ParlaMint-UA_2013-04-02-m0.u66	Paul Rosenco, Vitaly Caller's Faction. I'm very sorry to see that the Party of Regions is once again looking at and discussing the name of the person who made the decisions, not the fact of the determination itself and the content of the decision itself. If we continue to move this way in the Supreme Council of Ukraine, if we do not discuss the point, but if we discuss the opposition, the faction of the regions will not vote in favour of the decision, there is no prospect in this Supreme Council. So, Hanna Mikolayevna said that's what happens at the state level, but she named one action that's going on in New York. In Ukraine, there is absolutely nothing done in the same way. This date is forgotten by today's power, this date is ignored by today's power. So I propose that I return to the vote and vote on this ruling again.
ParlaMint-UA_2013-04-02-m0.u67	People's MP, Kyde.
ParlaMint-UA_2013-04-02-m0.u68	Alexy Kaida, faction of the All-Ukrainian Freedom Union. Dear friends, dear fellow MPs! It is indeed shameful to see on the screen when those who destroyed the Ukrainian nation yesterday are trying to destroy the Ukrainian nation today. I would like to point out to that one lady who said that there was a complete list of measures that envisioned honoring the victims of the famine. But we prepared a decree that clearly describes what we should do and what measures we should take. So we suggest we put it to the vote again. We invite other factions to join the authorship of this Order, we are ready to accept your proposals. And now, in honor of the respect of the Ukrainians who died in the twentieth century, during the famines in Ukraine, I offer a moment of silence to all Ukrainians.
ParlaMint-UA_2013-04-02-m0.u69	There are two speakers left.
ParlaMint-UA_2013-04-02-m0.u70	Fatherland stayed and we'll end up, on the basis of all the factions, moving on. I beg you, Fatherland, who? Stallo.
ParlaMint-UA_2013-04-02-m0.u71	Please hand over Viacheslav Kirilenko.
ParlaMint-UA_2013-04-02-m0.u72	Dear colleagues, honourable Ukrainians, the fact that the Communists have not even now risen to honor the moment of silence of the 10 million victims of the Holocaust, including the Vice-Speaker, says that not everyone in this room cares about Ukraine and works for it. And a good number of people are working for another country, for a neighbouring state, and they are now representing the interests of the organizers of the Netherlands. Those killers who killed 10 million people! [[Applause]] Our proposal, since there is the Holodomor Act as a genocide, adopted in 2006 by the Supreme Council, is to return to the vote now. Then the decision in the first reading and in the second reading, any fraction, will be able to make their amendments and vote.
ParlaMint-UA_2013-04-02-m0.u73	Let us consider further questions. Law 1040. You're asking me not to put a vote or a vote. Why should I vote? Sit down, I'll put it in. It's a sensitive question, I'm putting it to a vote. Please prepare for the vote. I'll put it, I'll go back to the vote now, and then there'll be a vote. I'll put it to a vote. Listen. Who's in favour of voting on the draft Decree 2185, please vote. [[11:13:23]] For 215 Against 5, held – 48, not voted – 154. The decision is not taken. The factions. Region Party 31, Parenthood 88, Vitaly Klicka Hit 40, Freedom 35, Company 0, non-factional 21. Let's take a look at it. Draft Law 1040 on amending some Ukrainian legislation on the preservation of street names related to the Great Homeland War of 1941-1945. Project of the People's Deputies of Cibenko. I'll bet you a vote. Who's in charge of putting the 1040 law of the day into order, please vote. [[11:14:32]] For the 220. Against 57, held 61, did not vote 83, total 421. The decision is not taken. I request the author of the law for reasons. Zybenko.
ParlaMint-UA_2013-04-02-m0.u74	Thank you. Communist faction, Peter Cibenko, head of the Ukrainian Veterans Organization Council Dear colleagues! Dear citizens of Ukraine! I want to address everyone, the vote has taken place quite eloquently. On October 19, 2012, a decree was issued by the President of Ukraine on measures dedicated to the 70th anniversary of the liberation of Ukraine from the fascist invaders and the 70th anniversary of the Great Victory. The document is a document of all normal people's activities for the next three years, because today, when it comes to marking the most spectacular event in our country and humanity, trying to rename streets, squares and any other objects that have the name of the veterans of the Great Homeland War -- it's not just inappropriate, it's totally wrong. That's why I'm asking, dear colleagues, to go back to voting on this subject and support inclusion.
ParlaMint-UA_2013-04-02-m0.u75	Deputies! Let's go over the questions. Requesting the faction and the national MP to return to the vote, is that okay? Are we going back? I'm betting on a vote on who to go back to question 1040, please vote. [[11:16:51]] For 218. Against 74. It's been held up to 56. The vote was not 72. The decision is not taken. The factions. Region Party - 184, Fatherland - 0, Hit Vitalia Klicka - 1, Freedom - 0, Company - 30, Postfaction - 3. The question is discussed: Law 1041: a draft Act amending article 297 of the Criminal Code of Ukraine to increase criminal liability for the desecration or destruction of monuments built in the memory of those who fought against Nazism during the years of World War II: Soviet Liberation Soldiers, Participants, Entrapmenters, Victims of Nazi Persecution, and Internationalists and Peacekeepers. It's a People's Deputy's Project. I'm betting on a draft of Law 1041, and I read it to you. Please vote. [[11:18:22]] For 223 Against the 15th. Hold on to 118. They didn't vote - 59. Only 415. The decision is not taken. The factions. Region Party - 187, Fatherland - 1, Hit by Vitalia Klicka - 1, Freedom - 0, Company - 30, Postfaction - 4. I see there are two speakers. I'm asking you to sign up for five minutes. Deputies, five minutes, please sign up. I'll give you my word as the author. Peter Mikolaiovich, please as the author. Then it's easy.
ParlaMint-UA_2013-04-02-m0.u76	Simonenko, the faction of the Company. Dear colleagues! As the author of this bill, I would like to inform you that the committee, in considering this proposal, has decided on this. recommend that the Supreme Council accept this project as a basis. What is it? To the demands of the veterans of the Great Homeland War, many people who today cannot see what is happening as a mistreatment of the graves and monuments of the history of the Great Homeland War and the Great Victory, they have also turned to us, the national deputies, to strengthen the responsibility of those inhumans who are destroying these monuments, who are not going to honor the triumphant memory and the shed blood that has been shed on the fronts of the Great Homeland War in the struggle against the German Fascist invaders. On behalf of the faction, I ask you to understand that we should respect the concrete actions of our great victors and save for future generations these shrines where we will raise true patriots.
ParlaMint-UA_2013-04-02-m0.u77	Please, National Deputy Lazko.
ParlaMint-UA_2013-04-02-m0.u78	Oleg Lazko, Radical Party. I voted in favour of this bill.
ParlaMint-UA_2013-04-02-m0.u79	Microphone! The tribune. Please.
ParlaMint-UA_2013-04-02-m0.u80	Oleg Lazko, Radical Party. I voted in favour of this bill. And I want to address all the deputies present from different factions in this room. People are good! I repeat this crime by making politics on my bones. And those millions of Ukrainians who have fallen into the Great War against the Fascists deserve to be remembered. And those Ukrainians who fell at the hands of the Company during famines, repressions, and persecution deserve to be remembered. Neither the memorials to liberators nor the memorials to victims of repression can be vandalized and violated. Surrender! Stop! Forget politics. Millions of people, their souls, look at us from above, and we are ashamed that we are here sharing political signs when it comes to the perpetuation of their memory. And an example of this disunity is shown by the Communists who stood up when they had to be honored.
ParlaMint-UA_2013-04-02-m0.u81	I beg you, Chechetov instead of Pisarenko.
ParlaMint-UA_2013-04-02-m0.u82	Please pass on the word to Schuffritch.
ParlaMint-UA_2013-04-02-m0.u83	Please hand over the Shufrench.
ParlaMint-UA_2013-04-02-m0.u84	Thank you, Your Honor Chairman. Dear colleagues, indeed, are surprised by the appropriate response of our colleagues in the hall. There's a difference between how the war began and how it ended with a great victory. And this victory is common to all of the Soviet people. [[B in m in s a l in]] I repeat, the Soviet people. And that is why we now have the respect to this Great Victory won by a soldier. And I'm going to the Motherland and Strike faction. Vitali Vladimirovich, your father general, will support the memory and traditions of the Soviet army and those who gave their lives.
ParlaMint-UA_2013-04-02-m0.u85	Freedom Union, Benjuk.
ParlaMint-UA_2013-04-02-m0.u86	Please hand over Igor Miroshnichenko.
ParlaMint-UA_2013-04-02-m0.u87	Igor Miroshnichenko.
ParlaMint-UA_2013-04-02-m0.u88	Igor Miroshnichenko, faction of the All-Ukrainian Freedom Union. Respectable citizens of Ukraine and deputies! In this session room, we are once again witnessing lies, hypocrisy, and philosophies. We honor all those who have fought for the land of Ukraine. But at the same time, we see Communists refusing to honor the millions of victims of the Ukrainians, whom their ancestors destroyed on our earth. And when it comes to honoring, we have a day of memory, we celebrate Independence Day, independence from what?Oh, my God! One occupation regime changed to another. Today, we are invited to honor the street names of those, the Vatutina, who drowned millions of Ukrainians in Dniepri; Zhukov, who viewed and used Ukrainians as gun meat on the front. We are for honoring the victims of World War II. But we are against the veneration of the encavedists and those who considered Ukrainians to be cannon meat and meat.
ParlaMint-UA_2013-04-02-m0.u89	Time's up. There was an offer to return to the subject. Be patient now. You have shown that we must return, now we will return every day, and by all laws we will return. What did you think? It's not going to be good, it's bad. Please return to the vote of Law 1041. Please vote. [[11:25:31]] For 216 Against-56. It's been held up to 68. Not a vote of 72. The decision is not taken. The question is being considered. Let's see the factions. Region Party - 181, Fatherland - 0, Hit Vitaly Klicka - 0, Freedom - 0, Company - 30, non-fractional - 5. The question is being considered, draft Law 1060 on the amendment of the Criminal Code of Ukraine on responsibility for public denial or justification of Fascism crimes. It's a People's Deputy's Project. I'll bet you a vote. Who is in charge of including the draft Law 1060 in the agenda of the seventh session, please vote. [[11:26:45.]] For 212 Against 57, held – 68, not voted – 74. The decision is not taken. The factions. Region Party 178, Fatherland, Vitaly Klicka, Freedom 0, Ukrainian Company 29, non-fractional 5. A word to the national MP, the author of the law of Simonek.
ParlaMint-UA_2013-04-02-m0.u90	Simonenko, the Communist faction. Dear colleagues, this bill is proposed for consideration by the United Nations as veterans of the Great Homeland War, a progressive part of our society, but this is also at the request of the United Nations, which adopted the relevant resolution last year and condemns the propaganda of fascism, and requires the parliaments of independent states to make appropriate decisions. And it is with you as a duty as a country that has borne a terrible burden in the years of the Great Homeland War in the fight against fascism, and how many of us have fallen in the fight against this evil. This is how it is proposed today to adopt the law that prohibits the propaganda of fascism, and thus we will be responsible both for those who have fallen on the fronts of the Great Homeland War and for future generations. I ask you to return to the vote and vote on the United Nations resolution. Thank you.
ParlaMint-UA_2013-04-02-m0.u91	I see that there are questions, suggestions. Please sign up, five minutes. Freedom Union, the People's Deputy of Kyde.
ParlaMint-UA_2013-04-02-m0.u92	Please report to the MP Mishchenka.
ParlaMint-UA_2013-04-02-m0.u93	Please hand over the MP to Mishchenk.
ParlaMint-UA_2013-04-02-m0.u94	Andrew Mishchenko, All-Ukrainian Freedom Union. This bill was discussed on our committee. So, the All-Ukrainian Freedom Union against Fascism. Today, however, fascism comes from Communists. Today, they are celebrating the monuments of Stalin, who was the organizer of the famine and destruction of the Ukrainian nation. Moreover, we asked Simonek on the committee whether the Soviet army would be condemned, which along with the fascists had a joint parade in connection with the distribution of Europe in the city of Brest. Let's move on. According to the bill, if the Ukrainian says that the Ukrainian language is the most vocal, if the Ukrainian Borscht is the most delicious, he will be automatically a fascist. The bill ignites national hostility in Ukraine. Moreover, there is no such recognition in Ukrainian legislation, and it will be the case for all who wear an embroidered shirt, speak English, and love.
ParlaMint-UA_2013-04-02-m0.u95	National Deputy Kolesnicko, Party of Regions.
ParlaMint-UA_2013-04-02-m0.u96	I address the people of Ukraine. Dear citizens of our State, you see the Supreme Council of Ukraine becoming brown, rejecting such bills, as well as the proposal of the fascists, rejecting the Order of the Seventieth Year of the Stalingrad Battle, of the Seventieth Year of the Battle of Korsun-Shevchen. [[B in m in s a l in]] I congratulate those who voted for the fascists. You've received fascists in Parliament today. You Ukrainians have received fascists on the streets of the State. After a while, these fascists will be reading your passports and hangings. And the monuments of the Great Homeland War will be destroyed. This vote is very symptomatic. These neo-fascists and those who have joined them, the neo-liberals, are trying to destroy the freedom and independence of our State. They are trampling their boots with fascist horseshoes on the graves of our ancestors.
ParlaMint-UA_2013-04-02-m0.u97	National MP Lazko, non-factional.
ParlaMint-UA_2013-04-02-m0.u98	Oleg Lazko, Radical Party. There is no doubt that fascism in Ukraine must be banned. But likewise, Communist ideology must be banned in Ukraine. [[Applause]] Because both Communists and fascists have witnessed the greatest war in human history. Let's mention the Molotov-Ribentrop Pact when we secretly divided Poland, destroyed Czechoslovakia, destroyed European minutes. These conditions, the arrangements between the Fascists and the Communists, have resulted in the destruction of millions of Ukrainians. And so when we talk about the ban on fascism, yes, it's not questionable. Tens of thousands of Ukrainian peasants, children, women, men were burned by fascists in my homeland. But these fascists came to us because they were allowed to do so by Stalin, and they were allowed to do so by the Communist Party, which echelons sent bread to Germany when our people were hungry. Grain.
ParlaMint-UA_2013-04-02-m0.u99	Kirilenko, the Fatherland faction. Please.
ParlaMint-UA_2013-04-02-m0.u100	Please hand over Sergei Teryochin.
ParlaMint-UA_2013-04-02-m0.u101	Sergey Teryochina, please report.
ParlaMint-UA_2013-04-02-m0.u102	Thank you, Mr. Viacheslav. Ladies and gentlemen, I would like to remind you that in the last summons, I was standing on the stand of the Supreme Council with a proposal, with a bill banning Italian fascism (let me use it correctly), Hitler's Nazism, racism, sexism and Great-Russian chauvinism. And plus, of course, communism. Well, you know, how much did it vote for? 140 deputies. So let's put it all together, and we'll keep it together.
ParlaMint-UA_2013-04-02-m0.u103	Last speaker, Simonenko.
ParlaMint-UA_2013-04-02-m0.u104	Dear colleagues, I am convinced that every sane person will understand the word of delusion that he speaks of the fascist organizations that have come to Parliament today. With regard to what has happened in our history, I can reason with anyone and defend my position with arguments and with concrete facts. The decision of the Nuremberg Process to condemn and recognize the aggressive Fascist ideology and the policies that have been implemented is also an argument and a fact today. Today, who is opposed to this decision? Those who are followers of Hitler's supporters in Ukraine. Who killed the Ukrainian people by shooting heroes of the Great Homeland War in the back. Who, by the barbed wire to 1953-1956, shot, threw young teachers and doctors into the wells who had come from Western Ukraine to heal and teach. It's these political bastards today who say that the heroes of the Great Homeland War to them, you see, the invaders. Only the traitors of the Ukrainian people.
ParlaMint-UA_2013-04-02-m0.u105	I would like to vote on the proposal to re-vote Law 1060. Please vote. [[11:34:38]] For-200 Against 65, held – 8, not voted – 84. The decision is not taken. The factions. Region Party - 166, Fatherland - 0, Hit Vitalia Klicka - 0, Freedom - 0, Company - 30, non-fractional - 4. The question is: Draft Decree 1237 on the observance of the 95th anniversary of VLXM and State support for the youth movement. Project of the People's Chamber of Jury. [[B in m in s a l in]] I'll bet you a vote. Who's in charge of putting the day-to-day session into order, regulation 1237, please vote. [[B in m in s a l in]] [[11:35:55]] For 185 Against 129, held – 14, not a vote – 81. The decision is not taken. [[B in m in s a l in]] Jury, he's the author of the law, please.
ParlaMint-UA_2013-04-02-m0.u106	Dear colleagues, first of all, I thank those who have supported this decision. And I want to point out that today all those who are yelling about the victims, the millions, the ten million, they still haven't counted them, today they're completely ignoring the support of the child and the youth movement. And what happened in Soviet times, in the plan of the VXM, today is that we also have to take better examples of working with young people, with children, because our children today, our young people, we don't need them at all. And this situation, which has occurred both on scholarships and, if it's not possible to get a job, the housing, it's extremely violent today. And by rejecting this draft decision, all of these so-called patriots today have returned to one place to all of the Ukrainian youths. So I propose that we put a draft decision to the vote, and we will see who is actually going to defend the interests of Ukrainian youth. Thank you.
ParlaMint-UA_2013-04-02-m0.u107	I'm betting on a vote on the draft regulation 1237. Please vote. [[11:37:43]] For-188. Against the 132. It's been held at 18. They didn't vote 70. The decision is not taken. The factions. Regional Party - 156, Fatherland - 0, Vitalia Klitschka - 0, Freedom - 0, Company - 30, Non-faction - 2. A draft of Law 1074 is being considered: "On the Revival of the Unique Symbol of Orthodoxy of the Church of the Virgin Mary in Kiev". Project of the People's Deputies of Miroshnick. Any questions? Sign up, five minutes. It's a pulley "Freedom" union.
ParlaMint-UA_2013-04-02-m0.u108	I'd like to speak to Andrew Illenck.
ParlaMint-UA_2013-04-02-m0.u109	Illenko, faction of the All-Ukrainian Freedom Union. Dear Society, we need to know what is happening today around the construction of the so - called Decade Church. There is a real raid by the Moscow Patriarchate. And in fact, we know that there's not enough of what's in the Ukrainian sanctuary on the Starokiev Mountain today trying to run these completely absurd and illegal structures. It's from the government budget that they're planning to finance, that's ridiculous at all. Why should the state give money to build foreign churches in Ukraine? That's absolutely ridiculous. And in general, let's get to the question of elections in Kiev and let the community decide what to build and what not to build. Thank you.
ParlaMint-UA_2013-04-02-m0.u110	Bondarenko, Party of Regions.
ParlaMint-UA_2013-04-02-m0.u111	I'd like to give it to Kuzmuk, Alexander Ivanovich.
ParlaMint-UA_2013-04-02-m0.u112	Kuzmuku's being handed over.
ParlaMint-UA_2013-04-02-m0.u113	Dear Vladimir Vasilovich, dear colleagues, we have come a long way, we have broken up our own parliament, and we are now throwing away the memory of those who died in the Holocaust and died in the Great War of Homeland, tearing the country apart. I propose to stop, gather the heads of factions, sort out and start work from the very beginning, from the very beginning of the vote for the sensitive draft laws of our state.
ParlaMint-UA_2013-04-02-m0.u114	Rosenko, Vitaly Call's Faction.
ParlaMint-UA_2013-04-02-m0.u115	Paul Rosenko, Hit Vitalia Call. Please pass the word to Irina Heratchenko.
ParlaMint-UA_2013-04-02-m0.u116	Heratchenko is a national deputy.
ParlaMint-UA_2013-04-02-m0.u117	Dear colleagues, we want to support Mr. Kuzmuk’s position that millions of Ukrainians who died in the 20th century should not be trampled on. But we see what's going on in the session room right now, it's actually a scary thing, trying to bring up questions about Kiev. Under the Supreme Council of Ukraine are thousands of Chinese who have come today to demand that the Supreme Council do our work, to vote for the election in Kiev. Therefore, we emphasize that our leader, Vitaly Klitschko, has addressed the honourable speaker, the distinguished head of the Party of the Regions faction, in order for you to be on lunch break at 12 o'clock, Mr. Ribak, Mr. Ephraim went out to the people, told about the position of the Supreme Council and your faction as to how the vote will take place today, and let us move on to the key issue of today -- the election in Kiev. Indeed, today we need to gather to the leaders of the factions and put to the vote the question of honoring the victims of the Holocaust and so forth.
ParlaMint-UA_2013-04-02-m0.u118	The Fatherland faction, Yavorowski.
ParlaMint-UA_2013-04-02-m0.u119	Vladimir Yavorowski, Kyiv, Trinity, Fatherland. Dear Vladimir Vasilovich! Once again, I urge you to call upon your sacred duty to identify who is absent from the session today. This is your responsibility, and do not avoid it. The other one. I'm convinced that we have to stop this retro-slice, this terrible political one, which has mixed everything and the victims of our Holocaust, and the terrible demagogies of the communists and all that. I'm convinced that this needs to be stopped, there are major issues today, there's Kiev and the Chiyans, there's a second problem, we have to cancel the quasi-reform that brought the Ukrainian society into huge poverty today, and we have to do it today. And the last. I'm convinced that in any case you can't include draft decrees on the Decade Church, it's a shrine to which any hand, regardless of whose hand, you can't build it, I'm going to the Merchant don't do it, I'm asking you to take this down. This decision can destroy a unique one.
ParlaMint-UA_2013-04-02-m0.u120	Dear National Deputies! Heratchenko made the right offer, we're left with 5-6, 7 laws, so let's get the author and vote, and we'll take the vote. And don't take too long. Because Gerashchenko is right. "Freedom" takes time. [[B in m in s a l in]] It raises the question of freedom all the time, it's true. So let's put it this way, I call the law what it takes to explain and vote. Do you have a deal? National Deputy Heratschenko, your proposal is supported by the Hall. Author, please, Miroshnichenko.
ParlaMint-UA_2013-04-02-m0.u121	Dear colleagues, we said today that we should not trample on the memory of our ancestors. But I want to inform you, because not all of them are. Today, at the site of our shrine, from which Christianity has gone to our country, a garbage can, respected friends, a garbage can! And that's why I'm suggesting that we recreate this symbol. I go to church, each of us prays to God. Today, each of us will stand before him when we press his button. Thank you.
ParlaMint-UA_2013-04-02-m0.u122	I would like to vote on the bill of Law 1074: on the rebirth of the unique symbol of Orthodoxy, the Church of God in Kiev. Please vote. For inclusion in the agenda of the day session. Please vote. [[11:45:14]] For 210 Against 76. It's been held up to 54. There was no vote – 70. It's a total of 410. The decision is not taken. Bill 1161: Amendments to certain Ukrainian laws on the return of religious buildings to religious communities are under consideration. Reports Miroshnichenko, National MP.
ParlaMint-UA_2013-04-02-m0.u123	Dear colleagues, I am very sorry that we do not remember our past. But I want to talk about the situation that's been around our Pochaev Lavra. Two thirds of the buildings that are in the laurel area are handed over to the church. One third remained unbaptized. The point is that the complex that is now in the territory of the Pochaev Lavra is complete and passed on to the church. A third of the facilities that had not been transferred had to do with people living there. Now people have been moved out, they have comfortable housing, and you can transfer these buildings. That's why I'm asking you to support this bill. Thank you.
ParlaMint-UA_2013-04-02-m0.u124	I am voting on the draft Law 1161, which amends certain laws of Ukraine (for the return of religious buildings to religious communities). Please vote. [[11:47:09]] For 219 Against 79, held – 45, not voted – 65. The decision is not taken. The factions. For – 182, "Papačina" – 0, "Klita Klitka" – 2, "Freedom" – 0, the company is 30, the non-factional is 5. A draft Act 1168 is under consideration, amending some Ukrainian legislation on the functions of the prosecutor. Project of the people's deputy Jaremi. Is it Jarem? You're not asking for words? Please.
ParlaMint-UA_2013-04-02-m0.u125	Vitaly Jarem, 112 constituency, Kiev, Fatherland. Ladies and gentlemen, I would like to support this bill in view of the fact that this bill is prepared to meet the requirements of the Venice Commission and brings the functions of the Public Prosecutor's Office into conformity with the Constitution. Thank you for your attention.
ParlaMint-UA_2013-04-02-m0.u126	I am voting on draft Law 1168 – amending certain Ukrainian legislative acts on the functions of the Prosecutor's Office to include the session in the order of the session. Please vote. [[11:48:59]] For-166 Against 7, held – 86, not voted – 158. The decision is not taken. A draft Law of 2457 is under consideration — the release of political prisoners in Ukraine (a draft national deputy of Láška) for inclusion in the agenda of the day’s session.
ParlaMint-UA_2013-04-02-m0.u127	Oleg Lazko, Radical Party. I went to this rostrum to look into the region’s eyes, which is responsible for the fact that there are political prisoners in the country today; which are guilty that we are still not in Europe; who will be guilty of changing our country’s movement vector before the generations to come. The bill is very simple. It consists of two points. First. To recognize the political prisoners of Timoshenko, Lucenko, and others. Second item. They should be released from prison immediately. The disgrace of the country today because of your authority, because of you, there are political prisoners in our country. We have to solve this problem, we have to release these people: both Timoshenko and Lucenko, and so-called Vasilk terrorists, and the Dnipropetrov terrorists that you've connected, and there's no Shamanov sitting in Donetsk who's being killed. There should be no political prisoners in the country. All those who wave and shout, I'll tell you this, if you don't vote, the people will take them out of prison, and July, and Lucenka, and everyone else, and they'll take you out of the villas. This is to let you know your future.
ParlaMint-UA_2013-04-02-m0.u128	I am voting on the draft Law 2457 on the release of political prisoners in Ukraine (the draft national deputy Lazko) for inclusion in the second session. Please vote. [[11:51:21]] For 176 Against the 16th. It's been held - 62. Unvoted - 154 The decision is not taken. The factions. Region Party 6, Fatherland 79, Vitaly Klicka Hit, 40, Freedom 36, Company 0, non-fractional 15. The draft Law 2554 is being considered: "To amend the Ukrainian Act on the Rehabilitation of Victims of Political Repression in Ukraine" to increase the level of social protection of rehabilitated persons." Project of the People's Deputy Golovka. I'll bet you a vote. Who, in order for the draft Law 2554 to be included in the agenda of the day-to-day second session, please vote. [[11:52:38]] For - 169 We agreed on all the questions. Your laws are all of them. Take a good look. What's up? Read, nat, read, come here, read. [[B in m in s a l in]] We've considered all the questions. Sit down, I'll give you my word. Please, National Deputy Koleznichenko.
ParlaMint-UA_2013-04-02-m0.u129	Respectable citizens of Ukraine! There is now an absurd situation in Parliament. The so-called Euro-Integrators block the path of European integration for Ukraine. [[B in m in s a l in]] I will be speaking on five bills that are rejected at the request of individual, some neo-Fascist MPs and certain factions that profess neo-fascism in Ukraine. First. Draft decree (1152) prohibiting the language of hostility in Ukraine, which degrades human dignity, the words “Jew”, “Hohol” and “Moscal”. In Europe, this has long been a criminal offence. And our so - called neoliberals with neophasists grumble that they're cruelly insulting people by calling them Jews. We know that, where and when people were called that. They're not just trying to call us Jews, they're trying to dissipate us today. Today, the language of hatred is the source of our population. I therefore propose to vote and.
ParlaMint-UA_2013-04-02-m0.u130	I'm putting the bill to the vote (1152), please note, the draft decree banning the language of hostility and the expression that demeans human dignity with regard to the offensive expression "Jew," "Hohol," "Moscal," etc. Project of the People's Deputy Kolesnicka. Please vote. [[11:55:14]] For – 201 Against 101, held – 44, not voted – 66. The decision is not taken. I'm betting on the vote (1183) is the draft decree on the announcement in Ukraine on November 1st, the day of nationality. Project of the People's Deputy Kolesnicka. Please, Koleschenka.
ParlaMint-UA_2013-04-02-m0.u131	Respectable citizens of Ukraine, respected colleagues! Today, we see the destruction of the multinational society of Ukraine. The faction of the Party of the Regions proposes to record the multinational composition of the Ukrainian people and to celebrate the day of nationality, bearing in mind that the draft decree has been recommended by all national cultural societies in Ukraine. I believe that the findings of the Academy of Sciences of Ukraine, which regularly conducts sociological studies that during the years of Ukraine's independence, the mutual hatred of the citizen of Ukraine has increased, should be examined by the burning heads of neo-fascists. Today, the hatred of Ukrainians, Ukrainians of Russians grew sevenfold, Jews 15 times, Roma 18 times. The next step is the fuse of civil war. We therefore propose to unite Ukraine and to proclaim Nationality Day as a day of unification of Ukraine.
ParlaMint-UA_2013-04-02-m0.u132	I'll bet you a vote. Attention! I'm betting on the vote on the 1183 bill on the announcement in Ukraine on November 1st, the Day of Nationality. Project of the People's Deputy Kolesnicka. Please vote for the agenda. Please vote. [[11:57:23]] For 203 Against 98, held – 44, not voted – 68. The factions. Region Party - 171, Fatherland - 0, Hit Vitalia Klicka - 0, Freedom - 0, Company - 29, non-fractional - 3. I'm asking "Freedom," don't delay consideration of this matter. The question is: draft Law 1113 – amending the Ukrainian Law on the Principles of State Language Policy and Other Legislative Acts – on the Improvement of State Language Policy. Project of the People's Deputies of Kolesnick. Please, Koleschenka.
ParlaMint-UA_2013-04-02-m0.u133	Thank you. Dear Ukrainians, today we see a pompicum and absurdity playing in Parliament. Draft amendment to the Law on the Fundamentals of Language Public Policy, developed on the basis of recommendations from the Venice Commission, OSCE, human rights organizations, national and cultural societies and more than 20 scientific and expert institutions in Ukraine. There's a very interesting thing going on. The profile committee on the so-called spirituality of Ukraine recommends that the draft Act should not be introduced. However, more than 15 Russophobic, xenophobic, in fact, Nazi language laws in Ukraine have been introduced and will be considered. I'll remind Ukrainians that one of the language laws they're going to try to pass here is that if you fall down on the street and break your leg and talk to a doctor in Ukrainian, they won't help you unless you turn to a certified translator. Praise be to the neo-fascists.
ParlaMint-UA_2013-04-02-m0.u134	I'll bet you a vote. Attention! Draft Law 1113 on the amendment of the Ukrainian Law on the Principles of State Language Policy and other legislative acts (for the improvement of national language policy), draft national deputy Kolesnicka, for inclusion in the agenda of the day session. Please vote. [[11:59:58]] For-198 Well, we made a deal.
ParlaMint-UA_2013-04-02-m0.u135	There's a draft decree on the 70th anniversary of the Stalingrad Battle, a project by the national deputy of Kolesnick. Please, Christmas Eve for a minute.
ParlaMint-UA_2013-04-02-m0.u136	Thank you. Respectable Ukrainians, descendants of those who gave up their lives, have put their heads in the fight against the "Corcin plague"! In the fight against the plague that appeared today in the walls of the Supreme Council of Ukraine. 70 years ago, the brown plague broke its back under Stalingrad. Tens of thousands of faithful sons of the Ukrainian people died there. And today, without wanting to mark this momentous date, the graves of our grandfathers, our fathers, who destroyed this brown scum during the Battle of Stalingrad. I address the people of Ukraine, you see that fascism has appeared today in the walls of our Parliament, that brown plague is growing in the hearts of parliamentarians today. You must conclude for yourself that the great feat of the Ukrainian people will be the feat of the Ukrainian people, and the fascists will leave as a mold from our State.
ParlaMint-UA_2013-04-02-m0.u137	I'm betting on the vote on Decree 2165 – "To celebrate the 70th anniversary of Stalingrad's Battle", the draft of the People's Deputies of Kolesnicka, to be included in the agenda of the sixth session. Please vote. [[12:02:24]] For 208 Against 72. It's been held -47. There was no vote — 82. The decision is not taken. A draft Law is being considered. You don't have to take time, there's only one or two questions left. We all have to respect every deputy. Not only "freedom" to respect, every deputy, I'm telling you for the third time. The draft Law 2103 is being considered to amend some Ukrainian legislative acts on the analysis of draft legislation aimed at ensuring the rule of law and avoiding narrowing the content and scope of existing human and civil rights and freedoms. Project of the People's Deputy Kolesnicka. Please, a minute of Christmas Eve.
ParlaMint-UA_2013-04-02-m0.u138	Respectable citizens of Ukraine have found that in 20 years, there is no institution to review draft laws to limit or narrow down human rights. Therefore, in view of our State's Euro-Integrated aspirations, we should first vote in favour of having the Sectoral Committee analyse draft laws that may limit human rights. Today, a minority of parliament, allegedly neo-liberals, are constantly underscoring that human rights are being restricted in Ukraine, and they do not want us to have an authority to monitor draft laws to prevent or narrow human rights violations. This vote will be a sign, indicating that these neo-liberals and neo-fascists are stamping human rights in Ukraine. And their grief at protecting someone's rights is not true, it's a lie.
ParlaMint-UA_2013-04-02-m0.u139	I am voting on the draft Law 2103 – amending certain legislative acts of Ukraine (for the analysis of draft legislative acts with a view to ensuring the rule of law and not allowing for a narrowing of content and the scope of existing rights), the draft of the People's Deputy of Kolesnick, for the inclusion in the agenda of the Supreme Council's day session. Members, please vote. [[12:05:27]] For-198 94, held – 35, not a vote – 89. That's a total of 416. The decision is not taken. We've considered all the suggestions for the order of the day session. Therefore, I am voting for the entire draft Decree (Registration No. 2175) on the agenda of the second session of the Supreme Council of Ukraine on the seventh call, taking into account the proposals adopted, please vote. [[12:06:32]] For 263 I'll take the order. Against 0, held – 39, did not vote – 114, total – 416. The factions, please. Region Party – 171, Fatherland – 46, Vitalia Klicka – 36 and Freedom does not want to work – 0, Ukrainian Company – 1, non-fractional - 9. I'm calling it a 12-hour break for 40 minutes.
ParlaMint-UA_2013-04-02-m0.u140	People's deputies, please. We're continuing our session of the Supreme Council. Ladies and gentlemen, we have considered the situation that is in Parliament, agreed to work on the agenda, to consider the issues that are now, and to move on to the elections in Kiev. The draft Act (registration number 1063) on the amendment of the Ukrainian Act on the mandatory State Pension Insurance (registration and retirement conditions) is therefore under consideration. How will we consider this question? [[B in m in s a l in]] There's a full-time proposal and there's a short-term proposal. That's why I'm asking these two questions and I'm putting it to a vote. Your offer is full? And I'll put it to a vote, and I'll take it up on a full-time basis. Please vote. Well, calm down, reverends. [[13:05:54]] For-63 See? I ask you to consider draft Law No. 1063 in the short-term procedure. Please vote. [[13:06:28]] For-300 For 300 votes. See, no screaming, it's okay. Against five. We're holding on to seven. We didn't vote - 90. Decision taken. The factions. Region Party – 144, Fatherland – 73, Vitalia Klicka – 34, Freedom Association – 34, Ukrainian Company – 0, Postfaction – 15. It's proposed to give the reporter five minutes. And performances from each faction for 2 minutes. I would like to vote for this rule. Please vote. [[B in m in s a l in]] [[13:07:34]] For-191 Decision taken. [[B in m in s a l in]] I'm asking the reporter. Peter Mikolaiovich Simonenko. The faction leaders agreed for five minutes. Please, come in.
ParlaMint-UA_2013-04-02-m0.u141	Dear colleagues! Respectable citizens! I'm informing you that the faction of the Company of Ukraine has introduced draft Law 1063 for consideration by the National Deputies, which provides for decisions on the abolition of individual pension reform provisions, first of all, regarding retirement age. Adopted by the Supreme Council in July 2011 by the Ukrainian Law on Measures for Legislative Reforming of the Pension System, despite the extremely negative attitude of the vast majority of citizens, the anti-national reform has become the next step in the total offensive to life, the interests of our disadvantaged people. I would like to remind you, my fellow constituencies, and our constituents that this law has been passed on to the International Monetary Fund and has accepted the request for a new tranche. By the way, it was a tough condition for the International Monetary Fund, and this condition was accepted by the representatives of a powerful capital. The provisions of this law have violated the Constitution, have worsened the pension system of our citizens, which has been in force until now, has distorted the principles of social justice. Once again, I would like to remind you, Your Honor, that 248 national deputies voted in favour of this law. Among them are the 40 who represented "Our Ukraine" and "Our Fatherland". Admissions to the requirements and under the pressure of the International Monetary Fund are provided by law: to increase the retirement age for women from 55 to 60, increasing it by 6 months each year, starting on October 1, 2011; to increase the length of service for the appointment of pensions at the minimum of 20 years for women and 25 for men up to 30 and 35 years for new pensions. Taking into account the circumstances noted, as well as the present average age of life for Ukrainian citizens (men 62 years, women 73 years), the poverty of the majority of the country's population, the faction voted in principle against the proposed pension reform. The bill introduced by the faction of the Company, which is under consideration today, proposes to amend the Ukrainian Law on the General Compulsory State Pension Insurance to which to establish it. First. The retirement age after 60 years for men and 55 years for women is not less than 15 years for women. The other one. The minimum age of retirement for those who have lost their jobs in men for 25 years and women for 20 years of insurance. Third. The right to a pension by. in terms of retirement age calculated in accordance with articles 27, 28 of this Law, for the presence in non-working persons of the second and third groups of men 25 and in women of 20 years of insurance of their choice. And the fourth. An average salary for one calendar year preceding the year of the pension is to be applied to the calculation of the pension. This is the content of the major changes proposed by the Company faction to make this legislation. In fact, our changes eliminate the most painful issues of anti-national pension reform. Today the faction's position remains unchanged. The introduction of pension reform cannot be deemed justified until the full range of socio-neutral and economic-necessary measures is exhausted, which can ensure the balance of the solidarity system of pension insurance: the dentinuation of wages, the decisive reduction of employment in temporary jobs, the increase in wage levels for employees, the implementation of workplace development programmes and the corresponding increase in the level of employment of the population, and the level of wage. We propose a draft Act amending the Ukrainian law on general government pension insurance (for insurance and retirement). So once again, this is registration number 1063, as a result of the consideration to be accepted in the first reading and in general. As you can see, Your Honor, this bill is also supported by our young people. Because that's what we're saving them the opportunity to get jobs today, not to look outside of Ukraine. I am convinced that the civil position of all the deputies who promised to abolish this pension reform during the election will give us the opportunity to accept today both in the first reading and in general. Thank you.
ParlaMint-UA_2013-04-02-m0.u142	For discussion, please register with factions. We had an agreement. He'll report from the reporter's committee. Got it. Come on, let's have a word with the committee manager. We'll listen to the committee manager and then we'll give it to you. Please, Suskevich.
ParlaMint-UA_2013-04-02-m0.u143	Thank you, Vladimir Vasilovich. But I'm not asking for your word. The point is, according to the Rules, the rapporteur reported on the substance of the bill. And now the chairman of the committee is speaking on the substance of the bill. That's why I'm making the rules. Dear colleagues! The Committee on Pensioners, Veterans, and Disabled Persons considered the bill at its March 13th meeting. And you've heard about what changes are proposed. Changes that eventually eliminate the negative standards of pension reform that were adopted in 2011. And which significantly exacerbate the pensions of Ukrainian citizens. But looking at what I've been saying about the fact that it's not the only piece of legislation from the opposition, especially the people's deputy Denisov, has also introduced a bill that repeals other positions of pension reform. These are noted in 1063. Mishchenko, a national deputy, also proposes amendments to Bill 1026. So it's not systematic today to consider just one bill that doesn't fully reflect all those changes, the antisocial changes that have taken place during the so-called pension reform. The committee supported the bill on the basis. But what I want to say is what went through today, and on the committee it sounded like, unfortunately today, both the government and the authors of the pension reform went the way of using a higher retirement age for women to fill the pension fund. They filled out this Pension Fund, and actually this was spent in the elections, using the Pension Fund's resource to work with the electorate. Unfortunately, I have to say this. The less than two years since the adoption of the pension reform law indicate that the reform was carried out at the expense of the pensioners, and the government is fully in place. A.
ParlaMint-UA_2013-04-02-m0.u144	Let me finish.
ParlaMint-UA_2013-04-02-m0.u145	And the external factors that remain critical to the Pension Fund are the tinning of wages, unemployment, the forced departure of our citizens abroad -- they don't decide, and they are the main resource for reforming the pension system. As head of the pension committee, I appeal to the hall to accept this bill as a basis and as a whole. This will be a real solution to moving forward before we eliminate antisocial pension reform. Thank you. Please support as a whole.
ParlaMint-UA_2013-04-02-m0.u146	Freedom Union, National Deputy Leonov.
ParlaMint-UA_2013-04-02-m0.u147	Glory to Ukraine! Honourable MPs, distinguished Ukrainian people! Today, finally, in this session hall, we're going to start a program to protect Ukrainians in their social area. We very much hope that we will not limit ourselves to empty promises and words to the position of other national deputies in this room. The All-Ukrainian "Freedom" union has consistently advocated lifting the so-called pension reform, which is not essentially a reform. What happened? Under pension reform, the government of Azarov, the government of Yanuković-Azarov, is trying to destroy the Ukrainian people. After examining the so - called 2012 pension reform, it can be seen very calmly that half of the so - called positive effect of that pension reform has provided an extension of the retirement age for women, namely, the government of Azarov saved only one and a half billion dollars in 2012 in Ukrainian women. And when our fellow members of the national MPs spoke and said that they were willing to continue to work and extend the retirement age, and that's what Mrs. Herman said, so she forgets that Ukrainian women don't work for such a crazy salary that she works for. And any Ukrainian woman could work for that kind of money, but the state can't do that. The state can only delay the retirement age in order not to pay to Ukrainian citizens and, above all, to women. And we need to look at the people who are standing under the walls today, the thousands of Chinese who are standing under the walls of the Supreme Council of Ukraine, waiting for us to finally pass the Election Act in Kiev, passed the election decrees in Kiev. We must now, with you as a whole, adopt the Law on the Cancellation of Pension Reform and move to a review of the Law on the Assignment of Elections in Kiev, Kiev. And then in Ukraine, self - government may begin to resume immediately. Glory to Ukraine!
ParlaMint-UA_2013-04-02-m0.u148	Party of regions, Chechetov.
ParlaMint-UA_2013-04-02-m0.u149	Please pass on the word of the Lord.
ParlaMint-UA_2013-04-02-m0.u150	Please. Turn on the rostrum, mic.
ParlaMint-UA_2013-04-02-m0.u151	Good afternoon, dear colleagues, we'd like to ask you a question. Please tell me, has the past pension system set someone up in Ukraine? Nobody. Everyone said, "There's no way to cover the budget deficit." Everyone said, "Unjust retirement." Everyone said, "Little minimum pension." What did we do just because we started a pension reform? This is the beginning. We have increased the minimum pension and this year it will be increased again, which means that all pensions are counted on the basis of an increased minimum pension. What else did we do? This year, pensions were counted for military personnel. We've found the resources to destroy the colossal injustice that was for this population. What is planned for this year? Releasing the minimum pension and starting work to make the calculation of pensions fair. Because it's impossible for a person who worked 45 years and a person who worked 5 years to get the same pension. And when they call us today, let's cancel. We ask, "What did you do in your time?" Where in the world is it seen that any reform is applauding? There's no such thing. People are always afraid of change. But if you don't repair the apartment, the roof will fall. If nothing is done, the budget deficit of the Pension Fund will increase every day, not even every year. We already have women who retired at 55 years of age, in fact the average age of women's life is 76. At the expense of whom? One worker is now 1.3 per cent of pensioners. Please tell me, which country can do this? And in the end, I want to tell you that Ukraine.
ParlaMint-UA_2013-04-02-m0.u152	Finish it.
ParlaMint-UA_2013-04-02-m0.u153	Ukraine remained the only country in the post - Soviet space where no pension reform had been carried out. And today, in all European countries, the minimum age for women to retire is 60. And there are countries in which 68, for example, are Kazakhstan. So let's not be populists who go to power. And realists who do everything they can to raise pensions and make them fair. Thank you.
ParlaMint-UA_2013-04-02-m0.u154	It's Vitaly Call's Faction. Rosenko.
ParlaMint-UA_2013-04-02-m0.u155	Ladies and gentlemen, I will continue with what Irina Godoslovak has said and what the consequences of pension reform are. We're being told about the increase in pensions and the increase in indices this year. Thus, before the pension reform, the pension increased over the course of the year 4-5 times a year. This year, after the pension reform, the pension will only rise twice. The first time it was really raised from January 1st to December 10th. So you can understand the size of this improvement. The second time this promotion will be made until December 1, 2013. Now it's about a deficit that you say is constantly decreasing. Open the State Budget. In the previous year, the pension fund was granted 63.5 billion dollars. It already accounts for 83.5 billion dollars in 2013. So after the pension reform, the deficit of the Pension Fund's budget has not only decreased, it's increased by 20 billion, the grant of the Pension Fund's budget. So do not tell — but for whom a pension reform has been made. Here I have data from the Pension Fund: over 3 million Ukrainians today receive less than a thousand dollars. The average pension is about 1,300 bucks. The Public Prosecutor's Office receives a pension of 6.5,000 dollars, judges of 7.5 thousand dollars, high-level officials, including former National MPs, 15.5,000 dollars. That's who you've made a pension reform for today: for officials and for those who defend them, for the Attorney General's Office and for judges. So, of course, the impact faction will support proposals to change the direction of pension reform. But we are more interested in another question.
ParlaMint-UA_2013-04-02-m0.u156	Finish it.
ParlaMint-UA_2013-04-02-m0.u157	What happens next. Because it's really impossible to stop today because the Pension Fund is actively falling under your control. We've introduced, strike faction, a whole series of legislative initiatives. It's also about the only principles of pensioning in Ukraine, and it's about reducing the sole social contribution to small and medium-sized businesses. Without the legalization of wages and employment, no pension reform will be undertaken. Finally, this is our proposal to unite this hall. We need to gather parliamentary hearings without politics and have a serious discussion of pension reform. We've put in a bill from the 2501, on hearings on pension reform issues, and we'd like to support it.
ParlaMint-UA_2013-04-02-m0.u158	Thank you. The Fatherland faction, Shulga.
ParlaMint-UA_2013-04-02-m0.u159	Please pass the word to Arsenius Yatsenyuk.
ParlaMint-UA_2013-04-02-m0.u160	Please, National Deputy Arsenius Yatzenuk.
ParlaMint-UA_2013-04-02-m0.u161	Mr. Chairman, when pension reform took place in these walls, the opposition strongly denied this pension reform. Let me remind you that the motivation was as follows. We - said the government of Azarov - will reduce the pension deficit and we - said the government of Azarov - will increase pensions. As a result, everything turned out exactly the opposite. The pension deficit is 22 billion dollars, and the pension remains at a purchasing capacity that was 10 years ago. That is why we proposed to the Prime Minister to resign and retire to the minimum pension in 862 bracelets he provided for the Ukrainians. [[Applause]] Mr. Chairman, we believe that the problem of pension insurance is not at the level of the increase in retirement age. How can we solve the problem of pensions? First. People need to get a job, right? People have jobs -- there's wages, there's wages -- there's a deduction for the Pension Fund. The second thing to do. Raise people's wages. This will also allow the Pension Fund to be filled. These problems were not solved. Instead, Ukrainian women were forced to work for five years longer than was provided for under the previous law, which is a direct violation of the Ukrainian Constitution. That is why for almost a year we make a clear statement: First. For abolishing pension reform. The other one. We are in favour of the adoption of the law that Ludmila Denisov introduced, which provides for a comprehensive pension reform system: that is the fairness of pensioning; that is the modernisation of pensions and their recalculation, both for the inflation index and for the new standard of living; that is a new approach and the right approach to accounting for internships and the equalization of the pension system that ensures justice in Ukraine. We believe that this bill should be voted on as a whole. And we insist.
ParlaMint-UA_2013-04-02-m0.u162	Let me finish.
ParlaMint-UA_2013-04-02-m0.u163	We insist that our political opponents support the pension reform they have adopted, and then they criticize themselves, and tomorrow that humane denisova's law be upheld, which will radically and fundamentally add serious changes to pension reform. Thank you.
ParlaMint-UA_2013-04-02-m0.u164	Communist faction, Zybenko National MP.
ParlaMint-UA_2013-04-02-m0.u165	Thank you. Communist faction, Peter Cibenko, head of the Ukrainian Veterans Organization Council Just a year and a half ago, in spite of the absolute majority of our citizens, millions of our citizens, pension theft was committed. From the submission of the then minister of social policy and the work of Mr. Tihypco, a so - called new pension reform was adopted, which turned into a retirement genocide. Some of my fellow veterans today make a bitter joke that instead of retiring, we will be taken to the cemetery. What did the year of the so - called pension reform show? And he showed one thing and one thing, and it's obvious that a substantial increase in the size of the employment pension, stressing the employment pension, did not happen in spite of what was promised by the authors of the bill. First of all, the authorities are very proud of the average pension in Ukraine. But I've already mentioned that the average pension in Ukraine is like the average hospital temperature: someone 42, and the second one is cold, and the average is 36.6. Secondly, even this average pension is completely inadequate in the 45-year working life of most Ukrainian citizens. And most importantly, the disgrace of Ukraine is that 1 out of every 3 Ukrainians, a Ukrainian veteran, gets a pension of 1,000 dollars and less. And most importantly, I want to say that the pension reform was done not for the sake of veterans, not for the benefit of pensioners, but at the expense of pensioners. And most of all, why did I go to this rostrum? Dear colleagues, let us be honest about why this law was passed, why this law was allowed to be passed, and this is why. Because the vast majority of the Ukrainian national deputies who voted in favour of this pension.
ParlaMint-UA_2013-04-02-m0.u166	Turn on the microphone.
ParlaMint-UA_2013-04-02-m0.u167	This happened because the vast majority of the national MPs and men and women were absolutely aware that they were going to retire under this law, that there would be no pension reform, that's what cynicism is all about. So we insist on the adoption of our law as a basis and as a whole, that is, the abolition of pension reform. Thank you.
ParlaMint-UA_2013-04-02-m0.u168	The postfaction national deputy Jeremeyev and two minutes from the government, and we will make a decision. Please.
ParlaMint-UA_2013-04-02-m0.u169	Dear National Deputies! Dear Head! Today, the Supreme Council is reintroduced into the next farce of the Communist Party of Ukraine. We know very well what the law on pension reform has been passed, and the communists know without 32 votes that the majority can't vote. Yesterday, there was the appointment of a deputy minister to the Ministry of Revenue and Congregations. Today, the law introduced into the hall, it will not be voted on, the Communists know, after lunch they will all vote in all other laws. If we're all honest with the Ukrainian people, and we realize that pension reform is short-handed, let's put all the laws of opposition, non-fractional, communists into the hall. These bills really solve the problems of the Ukrainian people today, and what's happening is a farce. I'm asking the opposition not to go to another communist farce. We will vote in favour of your law because, in fact, Denisov's law solves the problems of the Ukrainian people. To the end. Dear Communists, you have such an attitude toward the Ukrainian people as the Communists in their time had no relation to the Holocaust, and by their vote today on the first question, you have clearly shown what your face really is. Thank you very much. This is the position of non-factional deputies. We want all the laws to be passed in the hall. Thank you for your attention.
ParlaMint-UA_2013-04-02-m0.u170	Thank you. Colomiets Viacheslav Mikolaiovich, deputy minister of social policy. Two minutes.
ParlaMint-UA_2013-04-02-m0.u171	Dear Volodymyr Vasilovich, distinguished national deputies! The Ministry of Social Policy does not support the adoption of the bill. There are many national deputies who have talked about the budget deficit of the Pension Fund. Yeah, it's 21.8 billion. It is estimated that the adoption of this bill will add an additional 8.6 billion. What increase in pensions might this be? And besides, it's really, really accurate, it doesn't take into account other laws that also apply to pension reform. Thank you.
ParlaMint-UA_2013-04-02-m0.u172	Thank you. Let's move on to making a decision. I'm asking for your attention! For the closing statement, 1 minute, Peter Mikolaiovich. He's a reporter. For the closing statement. Please.
ParlaMint-UA_2013-04-02-m0.u173	Simonenko, the Communist faction. Dear colleagues, I am grateful to all those who have shown great civil courage and have stated that this reform must be halted. With regard to the statements made by some deputies, I would recommend that he not collect 30,000 at that time, and we know how he was elected and what he paid for the baristas, bribes and how much he did not pay taxes on what he was doing in the so-called business. That's why there's nothing surprising about us. Business has decided once again to block the adoption of this law. And, esteemed voters, you must know that they are doing everything today to make their barracks grow more and that you received as little pension as possible and lived in this life as possible. The faction of the Company therefore appeals to all those who have a healthy civil duty as a deputy and calls for this draft law to be voted on both as a basis and as a whole. Thank you.
ParlaMint-UA_2013-04-02-m0.u174	Let's move on to making a decision. I'm betting on a draft bill (registration number 1063) to amend the Ukrainian Act "On mandatory public pension insurance" (registration and retirement conditions) to be accepted as a basis. People's deputies, please vote. [[13:36:30.]] For the 220. Against 8, holding back 61, not voting 116. The decision is not taken. The factions, please. Regional Party – 11, Fatherland – 91, Vitaly Klicka – 38, Freedom – 36, Ukrainian Company – 31, non-fractional – 13. Let's move on to the issue of ratification. The draft Law (Registration No. 0012) on Ukraine’s accession to the Protocol against the Illicit Manufacturing and Circumvention of Firearms, Their Parts and Components, which complements the United Nations Convention against Transnational Organized Crime, is being considered. What are some suggestions on this issue? [[B in m in s a l in]] A proposal is made – a short-term procedure. I'll bet the vote on a reduced procedure. [[13:38:29]] For 216 Decision taken. You'll figure it out. Deputy Interior Minister Sergey Ivanovich Doctor. In five minutes.
ParlaMint-UA_2013-04-02-m0.u175	Dear Volodymyr Vasilovich, distinguished national deputies! A bill drafted by the Ministry of Interior pursuant to article 93 of the Constitution and 13 of the Ukrainian Law on International Contracts is proposed for consideration. With a view to carrying out the internal procedures necessary for Ukraine’s accession to the aforementioned protocol, which complements the United Nations Convention. Ukraine's accession to the Protocol testifies to Ukraine's position on the settlement and development of international cooperation and will contribute to Ukraine's compliance with the requirements of the European Commission as part of the implementation of the Visa Liberalisation Action Plan. I would like to point out that the implementation of the provisions of the law does not require additional budgetary assignments. The bill is accepted without any notice, its adoption will create legal conditions and grounds for the entry into force of the specified protocol, which will demonstrate the desire of our State to deepen its practical interaction with the law enforcement authorities of the States that signed it, and will contribute to Ukraine’s efforts to combat illegal manufacturing and the circulation of firearms. Please be supportive. Thank you for your attention.
ParlaMint-UA_2013-04-02-m0.u176	Have a seat. There's no committee? Shall we discuss it? Turn on the sandstone.
ParlaMint-UA_2013-04-02-m0.u177	Dear colleagues, I understand that we have issues to consider, but I think, if we've already approved the procedure for short-circuiting this issue, we can't limit our colleagues to two -- "for", two -- "against" -- to the MPs. Because it's a Euro-Integration Bill. And it is the right of both the faction and the national MPs to express their political position. Thank you.
ParlaMint-UA_2013-04-02-m0.u178	You don't want to perform? What, are you gonna do the second time or what? Let's move on to making a decision. I am voting on the draft Law (Registration No. 0012) on Ukraine’s accession to the Protocol against the Illicit Manufacture and Circumstances of Firearms, Their Parts and Components and Ammunition, which complements the United Nations Convention against Transnational Organized Crime. People's deputies, please vote. [[13:42:02]] For 386 Against 0. Hold on to 0. There was no vote – 29. Decision taken. The factions. Region Party - 169, Fatherland - 95, Vitaly Klicka - 37, Freedom - 36, Company - 27, non-fractional - 20. Deputies! Let's go to chapter one. Draft Act (Registration No. 1263) amending article 263-1 of the Criminal Code in connection with Ukraine’s accession to the Protocol against the Illicit Manufacturing and Circumvention of Firearms. [[B in m in s a l in]] its components and components, as well as its ammunition, which complements the United Nations Convention against Transnational Organized Crime. Who's going to report? How will we consider the question? Short-term? There is no vote on the full procedure, so we need to report. Who will report the law, please report. [[B in m in s a l in]] Please report.
ParlaMint-UA_2013-04-02-m0.u179	Dear Volodymyr Vasilovich, distinguished national deputies! The draft Law, drafted by the Ministry of Internal Affairs in accordance with article 93 of the Constitution and article 9 of international agreements, is proposed for consideration.
ParlaMint-UA_2013-04-02-m0.u180	If ratification is referred to as an international agreement that requires the adoption of new or amendments to Ukraine's laws, drafts of such bills for consideration by the Supreme Council shall be submitted together with the draft law on ratification and adopted simultaneously. Since the protocol provides for the obligation of each participating State to take legislative initiatives that may be necessary for the recognition of criminal offences, such as deliberate action such as falsification or unlawful removal, destruction, or modification of markings on firearms (art. 5), the implementation of the Ukrainian Protocol requires amendments to the Criminal Code. Today, article 263, paragraph 1, of the Criminal Code of Ukraine provides criminal responsibility for the illicit manufacture, processing or repair of firearms, the illicit manufacture of ammunition, explosives, and explosive devices. At the same time, such actions as falsification, illegal removal or modification of firearms are not covered by the article. I'm paying your attention because it doesn't need any additional financial costs from the state budget. Its adoption will create the legal basis necessary to implement the provisions of the protocol, which will contribute to adequate resistance to modern forms of transnational crime and to the criminalization of the guilty. Please be supportive. Thank you for your attention.
ParlaMint-UA_2013-04-02-m0.u181	There's an offer, there's an offer to consider it with a reduced procedure. Please vote. [[B in m in s a l in]] [[13:46:39]] For-200 Against 9, held – 40, not voted – 161. It's a total of 410. Please be with the committee for two minutes, National Deputy Vasiliev.
ParlaMint-UA_2013-04-02-m0.u182	Let's get on with it.
ParlaMint-UA_2013-04-02-m0.u183	Mr. Volodymira Vasilovich, honourable colleagues, the Committee of the Supreme Council on the Legislative Protection of Law Enforcement, discussed at its meeting the draft Law on Amendments to Article 263 Prime Minister, submitted by the President of Ukraine. Ukraine’s Criminal Code in connection with Ukraine’s accession to the Protocol against the Illicit Manufacture and Circle of Firearms, Their Parts and Components, which complements the United Nations Convention against Transnational Organized Crime. The bill proposes to introduce the name and part of the first article 263 prime in the new edition. Section IX of the Criminal Code of Ukraine, Crimes against Public Security. By establishing criminal responsibility, not only for the manufacture, processing, or repair of firearms, but also for the falsification of the illegal removal or modification of their marking. As a result of a review of the bill, the Supreme Council of Ukraine's Chief Scientific and Scientific Administration does not see the need for introduction. But the committee considered it at its meeting and suggested that the law be adopted in the first reading with further elaboration. Please vote for the bill in the first reading.
ParlaMint-UA_2013-04-02-m0.u184	Are there speakers? [[B in m in s a l in]] Are there speakers? Please sign up. Oilman, faction of the Party of the Regions. Behind him is the Brigian.
ParlaMint-UA_2013-04-02-m0.u185	Ladies and gentlemen, we are adopting an important enough bill. It is related to the commitments we made to the European Union regarding the visa-free regime. In particular, we have joined the United Nations Convention. The essence of this bill is simple enough. We have no legal basis at our disposal for an article in the current edition of 263 with the '1' badge, as set out in the Convention on the Suppression of the Illicit Manufacture, Processing or Repair of Weapons, particularly. We don't have absolutely this stuff at our disposal, these are the reasons: falsification, illegal removal or modification of the marking of weapons, ammunition or explosive devices. In this respect, the adoption of such a law will allow law enforcement authorities to have legal grounds for attracting those engaged in the illicit manufacture, processing or repair of firearms, as well as for falsification and illegal removal or modification of their marking. In this regard, we are a very serious subject of international law and are committed to combating the proliferation of weapons and the fight against terrorism. I believe the faction, and it urges the faction of the Party of Regions to support this important bill. Thank you for your attention.
ParlaMint-UA_2013-04-02-m0.u186	Fatherland, Brigitte.
ParlaMint-UA_2013-04-02-m0.u187	Brigitte, Fatherland, Oblon. Our faction will support this project, but we ask you to extend the morning session for 15 minutes so that we can vote on Kiev. There are people on the street waiting for a decision, please don't delay. Thank you.
ParlaMint-UA_2013-04-02-m0.u188	Rosenka, the Vitaly Caller faction.
ParlaMint-UA_2013-04-02-m0.u189	Paul Rosenco, Vitaly Caller's Faction. The strike faction clearly supports the bill and asks everyone to vote for it. Thank you.
ParlaMint-UA_2013-04-02-m0.u190	Let's move on to making a decision. May I have your attention, please? I bet you a vote: draft law (registration number 1263) amending article 263. 1 Ukraine’s Criminal Code in connection with Ukraine’s accession to the Protocol against the Illicit Manufacturing and Circumvention of Firearms, Their Parts and Components, which complements the United Nations Convention against Transnational Organized Crime as a Foundation. People's deputies please identify themselves. [[13:52:57]] For 383 Decision taken. Against 0, held – 1, not voted – 31???................................................. The factions. Region Party - 166, Fatherland - 91, Vitaly Klicka - 40, Freedom - 36, Company - 29, non-fractional - 21. Two factions take a break, a faction of the Party of the Regions, and a faction of the Communists. The morning session is closed. At 4: 00 a.m., we're discussing Kiev.
