ParlaMint-UA_2013-10-23-m0.u1	Good morning, distinguished national deputies, invited guests of the Supreme Council of Ukraine! Please prepare for registration. Turn on the "Race" system. [[10:02:34]] There were 331 national deputies registered in the hall. The morning session of the Supreme Council of Ukraine is open. Dear colleagues, in accordance with article 25 of the Rules, we have 30 minutes on Wednesday for speeches by national deputies with proposals, announcements, messages. People's deputies, please prepare for the recording. Turn on the "Race" system. Sign up for the performance. The speech is given to the national MP John Kirilenko, the "Fatherland" faction. The national deputy of the Nemira, Gregory of the Nemira, handed over the word. Please.
ParlaMint-UA_2013-10-23-m0.u2	Dear Mr. Head, dear fellow national MPs! Today, the European Parliament will vote on the Eastern Partnership Policy Resolution. The draft resolution, which is supported by all, stresses, by all political groups of the European Parliament, that the European Parliament supports the signing of the Agreement between Ukraine and the EU on the Association only on the condition that all the criteria expressed by the Council of the European Union are fully met. Secondly, it states that, to date, Ukraine has failed to meet the main criterion that is formulated as follows: the cessation of politically motivated justice, the resolution of the question of the imprisonment of Yulia Timoshenko. I emphasize that five weeks remain before the Vilnius Summit. A decision on the signing of the agreement must be made by 18 November at the latest. Thus, the Ukrainian authorities are now responsible for fulfilling this criterion. The time for smoke curtains, blackmail, deception, bluff, and conversation has passed. Now comes the time of responsibility and action. The problem of politically motivated justice was not created here in the Supreme Council. The problem of politically motivated justice was created by the Ukrainian authorities. This problem must be addressed by the Ukrainian authorities, particularly the President of Ukraine. The mechanism and strategic idea for solving this problem are proposed by the mission of President Cox and President Kwasniewski. It is about, and it is officially proposed to the President of Ukraine, the Ukrainian authorities, that Julia Timoshenko be given the opportunity from medical and humanitarian conditions to undergo treatment in Germany by pardon. I emphasize that Julia Timoshenko did not commit crimes; she needs treatment. Such treatment in the countries of the European Union can and will be given only as a free human being. So any attempt to transfer responsibility here to this room, they mean the lack of political will in the person who has to solve this issue. Time of action for President Yanukovic. We demand responsibility.
ParlaMint-UA_2013-10-23-m0.u3	Thank you. National Deputy Mosheński, please, is invited to the address.
ParlaMint-UA_2013-10-23-m0.u4	Please pass the word to Volodymyr Mikolajovich Litvin.
ParlaMint-UA_2013-10-23-m0.u5	Please, Vladimir Mikhailovich Litwin.
ParlaMint-UA_2013-10-23-m0.u6	Dear Volodymyr Vasilovich, dear colleagues! We have a lot going on in Ukraine behind Saltyczedrin. I quote, "I've released the reform -- that's enough, that's a dot. Then, after a while, I relaunched the reform. And again, it was a dot. And so on until the unspoken ways of God are fulfilled." And then, "The best way to do this is to go deaf." So we, Ukraine, were suppressed by medical reform. In principle, the President of Ukraine correctly assigned the task of carrying it out. But it was made by office theorists who never knew or saw what people were living in and what their needs were. How did this turn out? By disposing of a network of medical facilities. Lack of access to health facilities. Since we don't have roads, we're off course, you know that. The next moment, what did this lead to? The number of bureaucratic administrations increased. Think about it! Earlier in the city and district there was a manager, the head doctor of the miscreatics. Now there are five executives, two departments. District Health Department, City Health Department, 18 staff members! Let's say it's 100,000 dollars a month. Still another problem, dear colleagues. All graduates of colleges, dentists, surgeons, and others were recorded by family doctors! This is a tragedy for young graduates. They're totally unprepared! All of them are forced to go to work as family doctors. This led to the total destruction of people. Among other things, dear colleagues, we need to be aware that the departmental hospital, the field office and the obstetrics station, is a common practice for people, it's a place of communication where they get comfort, if not medical care. So I think we, the honourable national MPs, need to get back to this problem. And the power of power has to be to admit mistakes and first create conditions and then carry out medical reform. And we need to adopt immediately the law that we voted on in the first reading. I'm addressing the faction of the Party of the Regions first. Don’t joke, we accept in the first reading, and then we don’t put it on the table. We need to make this decision and calm society down, especially on the eve of major political campaigns. We need to maintain stability in Ukraine. Thank you for your attention.
ParlaMint-UA_2013-10-23-m0.u7	Thank you. The Fatherland faction, the Kucheruk People's Deputy.
ParlaMint-UA_2013-10-23-m0.u8	Please give the word to Alexander Turkinov.
ParlaMint-UA_2013-10-23-m0.u9	Alexander the Turk, we give the word. Please.
ParlaMint-UA_2013-10-23-m0.u10	Dear colleagues, distinguished voters! Now the Chinese city council is back together. The flag of the opposition parties is once again flying. Our fellow MPs are also there. The reason is clear to everyone. Beyond the law, outside the Constitution, the Party of the Regions and the Communists, who support them, continue the illegal authorization of the Kyiv City Council. There is no mayor in Kiev for over a year. All of this nonsense is that the ruling majority is afraid and unable to win the election. They can't win honestly. And that's why the election blocking mechanisms are working on Kiev in general. And all this is happening in the background of pro-European integration, the pro-European choice. Dear colleagues, I just got a phone call from the Kyiv City Council. People’s deputies are not illegally allowed to enter the premises. We ask, "Why, why is the basic law being violated? Why is the Constitution being violated?" We immediately call, we demand that the Minister of Internal Affairs of Zacharychenk be called to report here, why the police continue to engage in criminal activity, why the police continue to block the ability of deputies to carry out their duties. We demand that an election law be passed immediately, an election decree in Kiev, both by the Kiev City Council and by the heads of the city of Kiev. Dear colleagues, it's all happening in the background of total economic destruction, total destruction of social programs, blocking payments, social pay, blocking payments to wage budgeters. This is happening in all regions of Ukraine. The ruling majority, a valid authority, is unable to rule the country. We're addressing you, colleagues, to dissolve your commo-oligaric majority. Stand down, release Ukraine. This is the only way to stop the destruction of the economy. This is the only way to protect our citizens. I address the Head of the Supreme Council. When we want to take the order of the day, do not stray from the harsh questions, including them in the order of the day. Only in this way will the Supreme Council begin to do anything, not solve the problems of corruption around the President, but the problems of the Ukrainian people. Glory to Ukraine!
ParlaMint-UA_2013-10-23-m0.u11	Ladies and gentlemen, I ask you not to accuse the head of the Supreme Council of Ukraine, but to vote. And you have to tell the voters the truth. I put to the vote yesterday a law, an election order in Kiev. You didn't want to vote, you didn't vote for all the factions, you didn't vote for the opposition -- 40 people didn't vote. If the opposition had voted, that decision would have been adopted yesterday. Well, that's true. Why, then, do you accuse the Head of the Supreme Council? I'm putting all the tough questions to the vote. Vote and everything will be fine. And now I invite you to the speech of the People's Deputy Timoshenko. Please.
ParlaMint-UA_2013-10-23-m0.u12	Thank you, Vladimir Vasilovich. Please pass the word to Oles Donya.
ParlaMint-UA_2013-10-23-m0.u13	Please, National Deputy Olez Dony. Please.
ParlaMint-UA_2013-10-23-m0.u14	Ladies and gentlemen, we do not often have to speak from this rostrum with positive information. People’s deputies usually use the rostrum to criticize, quarrel, and swear. I have the honour to tell you a little bit about the positive. Since October 1, we have started, and we are the All-Ukrainian Committee for the Protection of Ukrainian Language, the whole of Ukraine's free course program in Ukrainian. The slogan of the program: "Teach a friend to speak Ukrainian!" You see, we don't fight, we don't chase, we stretch out our hand of friendship. In Ukraine, millions of people who speak Russian want to learn Ukrainian. They need help. We find a room, a volunteer lecturer. We open courses in different cities. I'll name only cities where we've opened since October 1st. This is Zitomir. By the way, this is Gennady Zubko, who is one of those who helped. In Luhansk Igor Liski helped. In Kaluchi, by the way, there and in Western Ukraine need some people to improve the Ukrainian language, Oleg Snižnik. In Cremenchuc, Olga. He'll be in Sumos soon. They've just opened up in Herson. Four groups in Kiev. And you know, there are so many people who are willing to study Ukrainian that we need more promotion. The Kiev Federation of Trades in Kiev, the Writers' Association, Smolskip Publishing. So the program is expanding. So, I think it's an example where we can not fight, but by helping each other, you're creating a nation together, creating a common humanitarian space. And in this case, "Learn a friend to speak Ukrainian," I don't think it can cause any contempt or mistrust. For example, in Kirovograd, where we have also opened courses, Sergey Michalionka is doing this, the district council has asked them to open a group for them. We're opening a group for district council officials. In Kiev, in the Kenyan Federation, we open a group. And I've been calling you for a briefing, and I'm here. Ladies and gentlemen of parliament. And some journalists also need a lecture from the Ukrainian. I'm talking to the MPs: we're ready for each of the deputies to set up a group for learning Ukrainian, for the MPs from the Party of the Regions, from the UDA, from the Fatherland, please help a free group, just show your wish. So the password of the program is, "Teach the other to speak Ukrainian." Glory to Ukraine!
ParlaMint-UA_2013-10-23-m0.u15	Thank you. The national deputy Zibenko gives the word to Igor Alexei. Please.
ParlaMint-UA_2013-10-23-m0.u16	Respectable citizens of Ukraine, respected colleagues! The company repeatedly draws the attention of the Ukrainian and European communities to the illegal and illegal decisions of the courts and actions of the Central Electoral Commission regarding the assembly of citizens and the registration of the initiative groups by a referendum on the national initiative to determine the vector of the external economic integration of Ukraine. Indignant is the cynical and lying position of the Ministry of Justice and the minister, Mrs. Lukas, who, using his official position, spreads false information about the alleged violation of laws during the citizens’ assemblies and the formation of an initiative group. The referendum assembly was held in 18 Ukrainian cities: Kiev, Simferopol, Donetsk, Kharkiv, Zaporozhye, Chernigu, Mikolayev, Dnipropetrovsk. Guilty Rig, Sumi, Sevastopol, Lugansk, Kahouka, Poltava, Kirovograd, Odessa, Vinitsa, Zitomir. All these cities and the people who were meeting expressed their support for Ukraine’s accession to the Customs Union. And all the congregations went through without any violation by their participants and organizers, all the requirements of the law were met, both with regard to the number of participants in at least 2,000 persons, and with the arrangements for holding meetings and making decisions. All decisions made by the Kyiv District Administration not to send their representatives to the CBC to the congregations are illegal. Because there is no provision for the Referendum Act that requires the mandatory presence of members of the CLTC. Thus, the CEC can direct its representatives to determine whether or not there are any violations. But there are also the facts, such as the video, starting with the process of registering and leading members of the congregation until closure. We put these materials in the CBC, but the Central Election Commission didn't take them into account. I want to ask and remind you that there should be at least 500 people in the initiative group. We've registered almost 10,000 members of the initiative group. What? I have to ask the members of the CBC, can you, by putting your hand on the heart and looking people straight in the eye, say that the lists of 10,000 didn't contain 500 people? Honorable citizens of Ukraine, every decision to make should be decided by referendum. The possibility of holding a referendum without hindrance is one of the European values that are constantly claimed by the Eurolobists they desire. So, regardless of the obstacles to power, its opposition, its paws, its hexagons, we're going to be doing these things. And I want to say here to some of the "domestics" in the paws, the leaders who accuse the Company of not supporting the elections in Kiev. Let him see the Company's faction vote on this issue. Thank you for your attention.
ParlaMint-UA_2013-10-23-m0.u17	It was the faction of Communists that all voted in favour of the elections in Kiev, not in the case of the other. Morozenko passes the word to Anatoly Kinah to the National Deputy, faction of the Party of the Regions. Please.
ParlaMint-UA_2013-10-23-m0.u18	Ladies and gentlemen, I propose to all of us in the Supreme Council as the supreme legislative body of our nation to think about the following. In today’s world, both global and regional integration processes are tightening, accompanied by increased political, economic competition, market struggles, access to resources. Ukraine, as the largest country in Europe, is deeply sensitive to all global influences, including in internal political, economic space. There is no alternative to creating modern European international standards on Ukrainian soil, economic competitiveness, rights, and the quality of life of citizens. And it's the most plausible, despite the current personal political competition, the consolidation of all socio-political, powerful, opposition forces around the creation of modern democratic international standards on Ukrainian soil. It is very important that, despite the difficulties and contradictions, for the first time in Ukraine, there was a meeting of the National Round Table on the Strategy and Development of our State, in which people's deputies, the heads of all political factions of Parliament, the interfractional unification of the Supreme Council "European Choice", the government, the representatives of the European Union, the European Parliament, and the vast number of social associations. An appropriate statement has been adopted where a clear priority has been given to consolidating efforts around Ukraine’s Euro-Integration Strategy. The round table, the decision taken, will be held on a permanent basis with maximum public participation. The government, together with Parliament, the European Union and other partners, needs to strengthen immediately the formation of a national strategy for European integration, the adaptation of Ukraine's economy to tighten competition in free trade. Maximum diplomatic, political, economic efforts to preserve our economic space by strategic partners with the Russian Federation, the Customs Union. Therefore, honourable national MPs are unacceptable, and we stress this in particular by transforming the state’s development strategy into a Euro-Integration Vector into a current situation. We call on everyone to join forces and create irreversible conditions for Ukraine’s development as a modern, competitive, democratic state. Thank you for your attention.
ParlaMint-UA_2013-10-23-m0.u19	Thank you. The faction of the Party of the Regions, the People's Deputy of Doubenkov, gives the word.
ParlaMint-UA_2013-10-23-m0.u20	The arrow of Andrew Fedorovich.
ParlaMint-UA_2013-10-23-m0.u21	People's Deputy Shipko.
ParlaMint-UA_2013-10-23-m0.u22	Shipko Andri Fedorovich, Dnipropetrovska oblast, 35 constituency district, Nikopol, Ordjonikidze, Nicopolsk district Dear colleagues! Dear voters! Today, Ukrainian President Viktor Janukovic puts the country’s government and parliament in charge of responsible and essential tasks in the field of public and social policy. Today, there are presidential programs and social initiatives in Ukraine, and we see the results of this work. For example, there is reason to believe that drugs that are legally sold in Ukrainian pharmacies are manufactured to meet production standards and to guarantee the safety of their use. But it turns out that Ukrainian citizens don't have information about the therapeutic effectiveness of treatments, little, I assure you, as doctors don't have it either. So today, the state controls compliance with production standards and the safety of medicines and health, but the quality of medicines is not just the quality of production and safety, but the medicine should be treated. What's going on now? You can take medicines that are properly manufactured, unforgivable, and that are prescribed by a doctor according to the disease. But there may not be a cure. I believe that Ukrainians have the right to have information about the therapeutic effectiveness of medicines. It should become available to me. In particular, data on the therapeutic effectiveness of medicinal products should be included in the national medical records. So we're going to give clear information to both patients and doctors. With such transparency and availability of information, the manufacturer will also consider, not how to advertise more, but how to make drugs more effective. Please consider my statement to the Ministry of Health. Let the information on the therapeutic effectiveness of drugs sold in Ukraine become open and truly beneficial to millions of our fellow countrymen and to our country’s healthy future. Thank you for your attention.
ParlaMint-UA_2013-10-23-m0.u23	Fatherskina faction, national deputy Vladimir Yavorowski.
ParlaMint-UA_2013-10-23-m0.u24	Vladimir Yavorowski, Kyiv, Trinity, Fatherland. Dear colleagues, despite the fact that Europe has not only cut through our window but opens the door to Ukraine's entry into it, unfortunately, our country is going down into a heavy darkness. It is frightening to think that with all the luggage we have, we can come to the European house today. First, the capital, the megapolis is four million, more than six months without representation, officials are managing huge funds, 16 billion budgets, actually, without any control, from district administrations to city administration. This is totally unacceptable. Second, there are now drafts of the next budget, where it's absolutely obvious that payments to the power structures are increasing again, and the cultural payments are declining, and all the benefits for the Chernobyls are being cut down, and so on. On this background, I say once again, when the decline in culture, on this background, is particularly horrifying, what we are preparing for Chevchenko's Jubilee, and at this time the governor is considering a unique monument -- the Chumak house, which was 200 years old and could stand another 200 years. And it's taken care of, it's crushed to clean up two, so imagine, two million on this lubricant they're putting money there. The same is true today at the National Museum in Kiev, which. Not only is it restored, but it is reconstructed without having a penny of money to do it. Recently, our committee went there and we discovered all of this absolutely, what is happening today with the celebration of Taras Grigorovovich Shevchenk. The country, once again, is in the dark. Who today, a rural grandmother, understands what the President takes and says, "Everything must be decided in Parliament." Where did it start? What did Julia Timoshenko and I decide to do? Was this decided on Bank? It's like they say let the Supreme Council decide everything. And what can this Supreme Council decide when a famous basketball hand is tied to the president's leg? The smallest of his movements, and this hand cuts off everything that can be cut off -- healthy, all that is in Ukraine today. Because of this, the situation in Ukraine today is more terrible than I can remember, such confusion today among the people. Today, MPs, we're not allowed to meet the city council, we're elected here in Kiev, the only legitimate ones who are, are the 11 deputies elected by the people and we're not allowed to join the city council, we're only running, so we're just going to walk in this area and that sort of thing. That's why I say "regionals," stop it! You will enter history as the blackest, most fearsome force in Ukraine, as the anti-Ukrainian power!
ParlaMint-UA_2013-10-23-m0.u25	The faction of the Company of Ukraine, Balandin, gave the floor to the national deputy Zubczewski.
ParlaMint-UA_2013-10-23-m0.u26	Alexander Zubchevsky, Communist faction. Dear colleagues, distinguished voters! The madness that attempts to bring about the regime and its so-called opposition will plunge the country into economic chaos and lead to irreparable consequences. This madness is called the signing of the Agreement on the Association of Ukraine with the European Union. The brim of the pants, the break of the head of the Euro-Integrators carry the speculative benefits of the so-called European civilisation with a blue hue, while knowingly deceiving citizens by promising them European wages, visa-free treatment, independent courts, work and much more. Nothing will happen, it will be enough for the people, you will drag the country into association, knowing that there will be no visa-free regime, there will be no European wages, and there will be economic collapse and defult in the country. With what and with whom do you want to go to Europe: with problems that no one will ever solve for us? With whom do you go to Europe: with Freedom, from which does all the European community go and not give their hands to those followers Bandera and Shuhevich, who are even trying to make a policy out of football? With such guides, it is not a direct route to Europe, but at least to Africa. For you, an association with the EU is one: a guarantee of the integrity of the counterfeit money transferred to European banks. You do not tell the people of the country that you have long lived in the European Union where the capital, the assets, your families live, the children learn. You're ready to go abroad at any time and get a residence permit or political asylum. You don't need a country, you don't need a people, you least think about the domestic industry, you're well aware that the association is going to get aviation, space, construction, automotive, engineering -- what's left of the Soviet Union, and it's working for the State. The country has not yet signed an association, and the cold breath of these effects is already felt by Zaporozhye. AutoZAZ as a result of the loss of the Russian market, it reduced car production twice and moved to a three-day working week. According to the latest information, Zaporoztal will be lined up with a reduction of 4,000 workers. In the suspended state of Motor City, which, having lost the market and cooperation with Russia, will be forced to stop its work in our country. Which of the European integrationists today is ready to take responsibility and, above all, to answer for the consequences of this, I stress, a foolish step? Who will go to the labour groups and explain why their production is not needed by Europe? Why would people fill the ranks of the unemployed? Which one of you will answer where the State will take 165 billion euros to introduce 20,000 European standards? There are no braves, and there are common words and "good ears" in ordinary citizens. However, the image of the enemy is growing more and more from the brotherly country of Russia. The power and so-called opposition merged in a single wave to prevent a referendum on Ukraine's accession to the Customs Union, which could lead Ukraine's economy out of the crisis. You are not fighting the Company in this way – you are fighting your own people, who are breaking your neck for criminal acts committed by Euro-Integrators. Thank you for your attention.
ParlaMint-UA_2013-10-23-m0.u27	Ladies and gentlemen, I give you my word, a minute, National Deputy Heratchenko, and we're done.
ParlaMint-UA_2013-10-23-m0.u28	Thank you very much. Dear colleagues! Obviously, all of us would like to have more talk in this session room about topics that unite us. And that's why I'm personally joining the Olesia Donya initiative, and I'm entering the first free group of Ukrainian languages. Because there's no one in this room who doesn't need to know Ukrainian better. Likewise, I would like to thank all the members of the Supreme Council who have joined the IFO Equal Opportunities initiative to combat breast cancer and have decided to count from different factions, the Party of Regions, Fatherland, Strike, the Communist Party, non-fractional, Freedoms, their one-day salary for repairing the mobile mammography in Cherkashchen. This will be our best gift to the Church earth so that the women there will be healthy. Sadly, though, the more things we are separated today. There's a lot of Euro-integration rhetoric in this room. But instead, we see a lack of respect for local self - government. And what's happening today at Kyivrada, where Berkut decides the fate of Kiev, is not European. The same is true of what is happening around the Shevchenkov days. When a shocking picture of the destruction of the authentic houses of Shevchenk’s day appears in the media every day, it becomes apparent that it is a reconstruction.
ParlaMint-UA_2013-10-23-m0.u29	Finish up.
ParlaMint-UA_2013-10-23-m0.u30	The question is whether or not the local head of the club can perform the reconstruction with an axe. So, Mr. Head, we would like to ask you to give the minister of culture an assignment to give us the following information to all factions of the Novohatko culture minister by Friday. Where, exactly, are the arrangements in the Shevchenkov days taking place? What are some of the reconstructions that have been carried out, whether they have been conducted legally? What kind of money was set aside for this? Who is following this, and who will answer if all of this is actually an illegal destruction of history, architecture, and culture? Please provide such information on behalf of the Supreme Council of Ukraine. So that neither in Kiev nor in the Marines nor in the Canoes could they be destroyed without the knowledge of the Ukrainian national deputies, there would be no monument associated with Shevchenk.
ParlaMint-UA_2013-10-23-m0.u31	Thank you. It's a deal. At the request of two MP factions, the Fatherland faction and the strike faction, I'm calling a 30-minute recess. The faction leaders are requested to enter the office of the Chief of Staff of the Supreme Council.
ParlaMint-UA_2013-10-23-m0.u32	Invite the national deputies to the session room. Ladies and gentlemen, I ask you to sit down. Please, please. Who will be speaking from the factions who took the break, please. Please, Arseny Petrovich Yacenuk. Do you have enough time for three minutes? Please, three minutes.
ParlaMint-UA_2013-10-23-m0.u33	Dear Mr. Head! Yesterday, several times, the question of inclusion in the agenda and consideration of matters of order was put to the vote. No vote was given for the simple reason that the Party of Regions refused to consider the election of the mayor of Kiev and the Kiev City Council. At your meeting, we made the following decision. You agree to consider the question of the inclusion in the agenda of the election of the mayor of Kiev and the Kyiv City Council for the authorship of the opposition. Especially by the authorship of Vladimir Yavorowski, and especially by the authorship of our colleague Blackwolf. The other one. With regard to matters of the day’s order under such circumstances, we confirm the order of the day. Third. According to today’s and previous events at the Kiev City Council. You have committed yourself to sending a letter requiring the Minister of Internal Affairs of Zacharychenk to give a clear explanation of why the Berkut special forces during the last four meetings of the Kiev City Council have been impeding the Ukrainian National Deputies to exercise their constitutional authority to attend the meetings of the Kiev City Council. We also agreed that Zacharychenko would be present on Friday at the "hour of questions to the government" and would answer in writing and orally the question of opposition, why the police abuse the rights, why it protects the bandits in the Kiev City Council, rather than hunt down bandits who walk the streets of Kiev. In view of this, we invite you to announce and confirm these arrangements and put them to a vote. Thank you for your attention.
ParlaMint-UA_2013-10-23-m0.u34	Thank you. Ladies and gentlemen, I would like to address you on a proposal to approve the meeting schedule for October 23-25. We need to identify with a list of issues that we plan to consider today, Thursday, on Friday. At the request of the People's Deputies of the Freedom faction, there is an inclusive question for today: The Act (registration 1250) on the elimination of private monopolies; (number 1249) on the simplified procedure for the registration of small business subjects; (number 2692) on the import duty rate for certain types of oil crops. At the request of the People's Deputy, Peter Simonenko of the Communist Party of Ukraine and the deputies of Ludmila Denisov of the Paternity faction, Paul Rosenka of the UDA faction, the People's Deputy Volodymyr Litvina, there is a bill on pension issues for citizens, namely registration numbers: No. 2934, 2997, 2072a, 2294a. And the schedule includes bills relating to the abolition of the benefits of the National Deputies from the Fatherland faction and the Impact. So all of the factions' proposals for urgent issues of order are taken into account. There's a proposal, and I'm going to put this agenda first and these laws that I called them. The other one. I'll do it. Sit down, don't yell, sit down. The other one. I will put to the vote a separate ruling in the vote No.3003 – this is the Yavorowski People's Deputy Order on the election of the city's head and the people's deputies of the Kiev City Council. I'm going to ask you a question about this in a simplified procedure. Third. I've just given the task of preparing a letter to the Minister of Internal Affairs, what happened today, what happened when we were at the city council of Kiev earlier in order to have full information from the minister. On Friday, the "Government Day" will be attended by all the leadership, the government of our state, the minister. The MPs will be able to ask the minister questions and hear the answer to these questions. Understand? I see. So once again, I'm proposing that we approve the weekly schedule of plenary meetings on October 23-25, with additions to the laws of all factions. People's deputies, please vote. Please vote. [[11:35:56]] For 317 Against -0, held -1, not voted -82. Decision taken. Please, by the factions. Region Party - 142, Fatherland - 61, Vitalia Klicka - 32, Freedom - 29, Companies - 32, non-fractional - 21. I'm asking for your attention. We're going to put it in the agenda now, and we're going to look at the questions. [[B in m in s a l in]] Okay. No questions asked. Okay, I heard you. [[B in m in s a l in]] You insist that when the performances are included. It's a matter of question, draft decree.
ParlaMint-UA_2013-10-23-m0.u35	[[Unheard]]
ParlaMint-UA_2013-10-23-m0.u36	A draft decision is under consideration. You give me the English, Chechetov, scream, or I don't understand. What are you yelling at? I'm gonna say it again, you two have heard it and you're already yelling, you listen. Ladies and gentlemen, the draft Order (3003) on the inclusion in the agenda of the election of the city chief of Kiev and city council deputies is under consideration. To that end, I ask that we consider this issue of inclusion in the agenda under the reduced procedure. People's deputies, please vote. Do you mind if we take a brief look? Nobody. Please register with the faction. Let's sign up and give the word to the reporter of Jaborov and everything, as you asked. Did you sign up for the faction? Got it. The question is dealt with in a simplified way. I'll give you two minutes. The author of the law, Vladimir Yavorowski, reports. Please.
ParlaMint-UA_2013-10-23-m0.u37	What is the point of my bill? It doesn't have a specific date, and that's why we can move it. The point is: since the adoption of this Order on the Election of the City Head and the election of the deputies of the Kyiv City Council, two months from the publication of this bill, elections can be held. If most people today take the spirit and vote to remove the issue, the annoying question, and before accepting Europe and so on, the elections can actually take place in December, depending on when this bill is published. Why do these choices need to be made? Society, the world is already laughing at us. The capital is megapolis, a huge four-million-dollar city where both the ministers and the prime ministers and the Ukrainian common people do not have their own self-government for six months! Some demoralized puppets who sit in the city council get the Kyiv land, get the Kiev property, and we look at it calmly. Because I think it's totally unacceptable! I mean, to look at the majority who are either voting today or continue to spin this free show with the Kiev elections. Today, I feel that you are united by fear, fear of the President, fear of the Kiev elections, fear of the Chinese, and fear of many voters. I urge you once again, and the opposition asks you, to vote and withdraw this question, to hold the normal elections in Kiev, and to put a dot. If we're even admitted to the Council of Europe, we'll be thrown out of it if we don't change anything, and judging by everything, no one is going to change anything for the better today. And today the Kiev elections are the last position that can take a big stand in Ukrainian society. Vote for this decree!
ParlaMint-UA_2013-10-23-m0.u38	Thank you. Freedom Union, Andrew Illenko. Please.
ParlaMint-UA_2013-10-23-m0.u39	Andrew Illenko, the All-Ukrainian Freedom Union, the city of Kiev. Dear voters, dear colleagues! We are very often told that members of the opposition are storming, going there with fights, and in Kyivrad. Today, in fact, representatives of all three opposition factions calmly came to the Kyiv City Council building, showing their credentials to the police, and they wanted to get into the Kyivrada premises, according to the Law on the Status of the People’s Deputy, absolutely our legitimate and just right. But somehow we were driven first, then at one door, they say, excuse me, at the other door, then at the third door, but then they said that you were theoretically able to do something there, and that's why we won't let you go. So, society, if we have such double standards, if we have such legal frosts, so disrespect for the status of the national MP, we're really going to call the minister and we're going to be hard to ask that question. In fact, with regard to the situation of the elections in Kiev, we would seem to have talked about this many times. But finally, the Supreme Council has to wash it away. It's a total shame. Because the capital is now deprived of the full right to local self - rule. Today, this criminal pseudo-Kiyevrada is sitting there, and she doesn't tell the budgeters how she's going to do any taxes. Today, 130 land issues are being considered. It's Kieva's derby again, it's the construction in the reserve zones, it's the destruction of the parks, it's the logging of the trees, it's again for these rats, it's again for these scavengers who have been destroying our city for so many years, and it's covered today by a party of regions that don't vote for elections, and so it continues to rule these "rats" of Chernivecki's in the Kiev City Council. But we will win these elections. The elections in Kiev will be, you will lose them with a crash, and in Kiev there will be real Kiev authorities for the Chinese, for the Ukrainians, for all those who love their city. This will be the case, and we will surely win. Glory to Ukraine!
ParlaMint-UA_2013-10-23-m0.u40	The "Fatherland" faction, Pavlovsky's national deputy. Please.
ParlaMint-UA_2013-10-23-m0.u41	Andrew Pavlovsky. Please give the floor to the Deputy Fatherland of Volodymyr Bondarenko.
ParlaMint-UA_2013-10-23-m0.u42	Volodymyr Bondarenko, we give you our word. Please.
ParlaMint-UA_2013-10-23-m0.u43	Thank you. Vladimir Bondarenko, Fatherland faction. This question is being considered today, obviously, by most of the deputies in this room, quite clearly understands that the prospect of its approval is zero, because in that half of the hall, which represents power, there is a very clear realization that in Kiev they do not see this council and that head, as they say, "their tail." I want to point out that it's not just a human question, it's not just a matter of replacing someone, it's a question that's fundamental, whether the Constitution is in Ukraine or whether it's working. No, it doesn't work, because in the Constitution, a concept like "local self-government" is destroyed in Kiev. Are Ukraine’s Laws in force today in Kiev? No, it's not. The National MP can't go to a local council meeting and you can't go there until those who "derebench" the Kiev City land today, the so-called former Kiyevrada deputies, vote whether to give their word or not. I think it should go into history today as an example of the absolute volunteerism of that party that represents power, when one of its representatives "skins teeth" through the glass of Kyivrada, by proving his hometown, which is monopolized by him, because there's his father's enterprises there, so today he's "skinning teeth" showing how much he affects in Kiev today all of what he's doing. This can lead to serious consequences. I want to say that Kiev is now, practically, becoming like his city: there is no heating supply, today roads in Kiev are broken, and no one is going to repair them, they will divide 130 more parts of the earth. So today's vote will show who wants order in Kiev, and those who consider themselves to be Chinese, because you're all living in Kiev, today you're going to show which one of you wants to have a normal life here, or whoever wants to give the rest of your property to the Donetsk and Lugansk oligarchs who come here, and so all you need is the authority that is in Kiev today, not the national one, but the Gaullierna. That's why we want you to make that vote a sign today, to count who you are.
ParlaMint-UA_2013-10-23-m0.u44	Thank you. The faction of the Party of the Regions, National Deputy Vladimir Olijnik. Please.
ParlaMint-UA_2013-10-23-m0.u45	Dear colleagues, Reverend Vladimir Vasilovich! There hung such a large poster, 'The legal election in Kiev to be!"and we agree with him. But the word "legal" is to be in Kiev. And when we saw today the situation that both the Constitutional Court and the whole Constitution are against the appointment of illegal elections, because the next election is appointed, in accordance with the Constitution, at the same time throughout Ukraine, if it's out of order, they're gone, because the deadlines have already come up. What, though, has caused such discussion and conflict? Of course, the illegal actions of today’s opposition, which was in power in 2008. Because they did not ask for a kyan, they did not hold a referendum, but simply to their knees in this room they overstepped the interests and interests of the territorial community, and they appointed the election of both the city’s head and the city’s council for the term. And as a result, this legal coalition came into existence when it came to assigning elections to Kiev is to act contrary to the Constitution. That is why we today insist that the elections be in Kiev clearly as required by the Constitution of Ukraine. And you don't cry, you don't cry, because you're not talking about the interests of the territorial community, because today there's a lot going on for the city to live in today's power -- both the solutions and the bridges and the construction of the subway. And the fact that you're blocking the work of the constitutional legal organ of local self-government as a session, you know that very well. So stop and stop putting pressure on the local community. And we, the Party of Regions, say that we have respect for this territorial community, which it has respect for the Constitution of Ukraine. Don't break the state!
ParlaMint-UA_2013-10-23-m0.u46	Vitalia Klicka faction, national deputy Victor Chumak. Please.
ParlaMint-UA_2013-10-23-m0.u47	Victor Chumak, 214 constituency, Dniprovsky district Dear colleagues, Reverend Vladimir Vasilovich, distinguished voters, respected cynics! What is happening in Kiev today goes beyond the law, the law, common sense and the general understanding of any normal person. What colleague Oliynik said today is a manifestation of, well, you know, unsurpassed cynicism when it comes to the need to hold the legitimate elections of the Kyiv Council. The legal elections in Kyivrad were to take place long ago, and we know that. The 1948 Declaration of Human Rights, which is a signatory and Ukraine, which is a fundamental document on human rights, including electoral ones, says that elections should be held in reasonable periodic terms, and this period should not exceed the term of a council. This advice has long been overdue. What is happening on our council today? Look, 63 percent of the Chinese in recent studies said that this Kiyivrada should have been re-elected long ago. What should wise authority do to this end? The intelligent authority has to go to its citizen and say, "Okay, community, we're going to this, we're going to this election." What does foolish authority do? The foolish authority does what we see today: it surrounds Kyivrada, surrounds Kyivrada's premises with a thousand "Berkuts" to protect the illegal meetings of these rats, as my colleagues said about the land of Kiev, a thousand armed soldiers. I would like to say that today there is a crime, which is perfectly clear, the crime scene is covered by 341 articles of the Criminal Code: "The takeover of state buildings and buildings." Look, a group of people, including armed ones, have been barricaded in Kyivrad, do not allow citizens who have the full right to enter Kyivrad; they do not allow national deputies who have both a constitutional and a legal right to go to Kyivrad. And it's not about the militias, it's about appreciating the politicians.
ParlaMint-UA_2013-10-23-m0.u48	Let me finish.
ParlaMint-UA_2013-10-23-m0.u49	I just want to say. Respectable squires, respectable voters, respectable community! This vote that we are about to see here will be a sign: who wants European Ukraine, who wants European self-government, and who doesn't want it. Thank you.
ParlaMint-UA_2013-10-23-m0.u50	For reasons, please, Adam Ivanovich Martinyuk. You have a minute.
ParlaMint-UA_2013-10-23-m0.u51	First of all, two small remarks. First. I recommended those who prefer "be," first in a self-critical way to say "a." Because let's think back to 2008. Who here called for the Supreme Council to hold the next election? Those who today called for more elections were required. So first of all, let's take it from here, the "Fatherland" faction, take it critically and admit that you brought it to the situation that today is on the Kiev City Council and with the Kiev City Head. Now the second point. I wonder why freedom is silent? Why are you yelling only at Kiev, and why have you forgotten about Ternopil? Because in 2008, elections were held not only in Kiev but also in Ternopol. So let's talk about both choices. And the main thing. You know, the Communist faction has always supported the election proposals. We're in charge of holding the next round, and I'm stressing once again the election in Kiev and in Ternopol. Thank you.
ParlaMint-UA_2013-10-23-m0.u52	Please, a line, a minute. The Freedom Union. Who? He's a good man, a good man.
ParlaMint-UA_2013-10-23-m0.u53	Oleg Knaczykki, the All-Ukrainian Freedom Union. It was just from the mouth of the previous speaker that he mentioned the All-U.S. Freedom Union and the situation in Ternopol. So I want to remind you that the territorial electoral commission that I led and led by a representative from the Communist Party has been shutting down the work of the territorial electoral commission for two years. And she just ignored the requirements of the law. And this criminal inaction of that official and that commission led by the Communist has been established by repeated judicial decisions that have come into force and so has the Order of the Central Election Commission. And it was the Central Electoral Commission that launched this territorial electoral commission, which deliberately brought about the collapse of the area and didn't introduce the deputies who were next on the list and kicked off the list. However, thanks to the Central Electoral Commission’s work yesterday, the situation was corrected, and yesterday it was decided to introduce the deputies who followed the list before.
ParlaMint-UA_2013-10-23-m0.u54	Ladies and gentlemen, all those desiring have accepted this issue. So I ask you to prepare yourself to vote in person. I'm voting on the draft Order (3003) on the election of the city's head and city council members to the agenda of the meeting on October 23-25. People's deputies, please vote. Vote. [[11:55:35]] For 199 Against – 2, held – 26, did not vote – 171. The decision is not taken. The factions. Region Party - 1, Fatherland - 76; Vitalia Klicka - 36, Freedom - 30, Company - 32, non-fractional - 24. Ladies and gentlemen, we've been taking a lot of breaks, and there's an offer to work up to 14 hours. Because there are many questions, both the majority and the opposition. The draft Act (No. 0023) on the ratification of the Protocol between the Cabinet of Ministers of Ukraine and the Government of the Republic of Tajikistan on the removal of individual goods from the free trade regime to the Agreement between the Cabinet of Ministers of Ukraine and the Government of the Republic of Tajikistan on free trade since 6 July 2000 is therefore under consideration. There is a suggestion to consider the simplified procedure. I would like to ask the national deputies to vote in favour of the summary procedure. [[11:57:12]] For 231 Against 13, held – 3, not voted – 151. Decision taken. I invite you to report to the First Deputy Minister of Economic Development and Trade, Anatoly Arkadyovich Maksut. Please.
ParlaMint-UA_2013-10-23-m0.u55	Honourable Volodymira Vasilovich, honourable national deputies, draft Ukrainian Law on Ratification of the Protocol between the Cabinet of Ministers of Ukraine and the Government of the Republic of Tajikistan on the Elimination of Certain Goods from the Free Trade Regime to the Agreement between the Cabinet of Ministers of Ukraine and the Government of the Republic of Tajikistan on free trade since 6 July 2001 was developed with a view to obtaining validity by the protocol signed on 28 June 2012. The ratification of the protocol will enable, firstly, the commitment to duty rates for goods excluded from the free trade regime between countries. Second, to consolidate in the protocol the State’s commitment not to apply new restrictions on mutual trade, that is, not to aggravate the current regime of trade. And thirdly, the creation of a mechanism for resolving trade disputes within the mechanisms and procedures adopted and by the World Trade Organization. The adoption and implementation of the Protocol does not require additional financial and material costs from the State budget of Ukraine. On the contrary, the implementation of the calculation protocol will allow for increased exports of Ukrainian goods to the Republic of Tajikistan. The protocol is aimed at developing an equitable and mutually beneficial trade-economy relationship between Ukraine and the Republic of Tajikistan, establishing joint production structures, stimulating investment activities, implementing inter-State trade and economic cooperation programmes, and will work for a period up to the date of entry into force for the States Parties to the Free Trade Agreement, adopted on 18 October 2011 by the CIS Free Trade Agreement. Ladies and gentlemen, please support the ratification of this protocol. Thank you for your attention.
ParlaMint-UA_2013-10-23-m0.u56	Thank you. Have a seat, please. A member of the Committee on Foreign Affairs, Kozub Alexander Andriyovich, is invited to participate in the report.
ParlaMint-UA_2013-10-23-m0.u57	Dear colleagues, the Committee on Foreign Affairs considered a draft Ukrainian law on ratification of the Protocol between the Cabinet of Ministers of Ukraine and the Government of Tajikistan on the removal of certain goods from the free trade regime to the Agreement between the Cabinet of Ministers of Ukraine and the Government of the Republic of Tajikistan on free trade from 06 July 2001 (registration No. 0023) and approved the above-mentioned draft law to be adopted by the Supreme Council of Ukraine. The ratification of the protocol will protect the interests of domestic producers as a result of the removal from free trade of groups of goods that will be subject by the Ukrainian party to export duties when they are shipped from the customs territory of Ukraine to the customs territory of the Republic of Tajikistan. The main scientific and expert administration of the Supreme Council of Ukraine's apparatus for the bill makes a number of comments on the drafting of the accompanying documents and the content of the explanatory note to the bill. The Committee of the Supreme Council of Ukraine on Budget Issues has determined that the adoption of the bill will have an impact on the budget indicators, as it may lead to an increase in the revenue of the State budget from export duties. So given that the ratification of the protocol will contribute to further deepening and developing mutually beneficial trade and economic cooperation between countries, please support the decision of the Committee on Foreign Affairs and ratify the protocol. Thank you.
ParlaMint-UA_2013-10-23-m0.u58	Thank you. Have a seat. Please register with the factions. National Deputy Shulga, Fatherland faction.
ParlaMint-UA_2013-10-23-m0.u59	Please give the floor to the deputy of Jabor.
ParlaMint-UA_2013-10-23-m0.u60	Dear voters, distinguished national MPs! Of course, the two post - Soviet countries agree on a common economic approach. I would like to emphasize and take the floor for the fact that our government is not working professionally. Because this ratification would require a note to the business, which is the risks in all of this, which are the benefits and what are the disadvantages. And here's the previous speaker, the representative of the committee, who literally scares us by what might be unpredictable, which may increase our coming to our sorry national budget with you. God damn it, it's gonna happen. That's why I'm stressing once again that accepting such documents without a thorough analysis, which gives us what risks, what risks we're losing on this, and what we're winning on this, only then, of course, can we vote for it.
ParlaMint-UA_2013-10-23-m0.u61	Zarubinsky National Deputy, faction of the Party of the Regions.
ParlaMint-UA_2013-10-23-m0.u62	Dear Igor Grigorovich, distinguished colleagues. I also took the floor, but to speak on the subject of the bill that we are considering. The point is that before this explanatory note, there are two more add-ons to the text of the bill, which actually define the list and the range of the deletions that are involved. As for the deletions on the Ukrainian side and as for the removals on the Tajik side. And those who have really worked on this bill, not just operate on its name to perform, understand very well what groups of goods are involved. Actually, respectable colleagues, the optimal situation, of course, when there are no removals, no restrictions in any area of free trade and no free trade regime, that's exactly what a free trade zone is for, but it's a theory. In practice, of course, when some international entities or international objects practice a free trade zone with other subjects, they are always interested, first and foremost, in their interests. In this case, the fact that an expert duty is set up for a group of Ukrainian goods that are important to us, that give us additional revenue to the budget, and therefore the forecast estimates that this is not equal to or greater than or equal to in terms of coming to the Ukrainian budget. Therefore, such suggestions surely need to be supported. The important point is this. and this protocol states that any other deletions without mutual consent shall not be permitted. This is a very important legal technical moment. So I'm proposing, not the political statements here, but to support this protocol, to ratify it, because it's favourable to Ukraine, and it's supposed to be a criterion for supporting a bill. The faction of the Party of the Regions will, of course, support the bill that suits Ukrainian national interests. Thank you.
ParlaMint-UA_2013-10-23-m0.u63	Thank you. Have a seat. People's deputy Leonov, Freedom faction, is invited to speak.
ParlaMint-UA_2013-10-23-m0.u64	Please pass the word to Alexander Oxenthyovich Shevchenko.
ParlaMint-UA_2013-10-23-m0.u65	Turn on the microphone of the people's deputy Shevchenk.
ParlaMint-UA_2013-10-23-m0.u66	Alexander Shevchenko, Freedom faction. The Protocol to the 2001 Agreement between the Cabinet of Ministers of Ukraine and the Government of the Republic of Tajikistan on free trade provides for exceptions to certain items. In particular, in addition, certain goods are identified for which, according to Tajikistan, export duties are set. It seems to me that these supplements to the Protocol are in general contrary to the rules of the World Trade Organization. In fact, there's a double overlap, I'd say, in terms of terms and on the part of Tajikistan, which sets its duties, and on the part of Ukraine, the same thing. So Freedom will refrain from supporting the ratification of this protocol, because even this protocol and its explanations do not define what financial and economic benefits Ukraine will have from this, or will they have, or may it be harmful for Ukraine, to set up appropriate export duties? That is why we will continue to vote in favour of ratifying this protocol. Thank you for your attention.
ParlaMint-UA_2013-10-23-m0.u67	People's MP Pinzenik, impact faction.
ParlaMint-UA_2013-10-23-m0.u68	Dear Chairman! Dear National Deputies! I'd like a simple technical paper, which is a normal practice in the two countries' trade relations, to draw attention to it. If one country proposes removal from this regime, the simple principle of symmetry is applied. One country asks – another country asks you to step forward, too. I'm looking at Appendix 1: these are goods that are covered by Tajikistan's import duties (this is Tajikistan's position). I'm opening Appendix 2, and I'm waiting for a list of the goods that Ukraine is charging with import duties. Nothing like that! The second plugin contains a list of the goods that Ukraine owes to export duties. If I translate everything I said into human language, that means both Appendix 1 and Appendix 2 beats in the Ukrainian economy, exclusively in the Ukrainian economy, there's no asymmetry here. Because the first part beats through the import duties of Tajikistan and the second part through export duties on Ukrainian goods. I don't know.
ParlaMint-UA_2013-10-23-m0.u69	Let me finish.
ParlaMint-UA_2013-10-23-m0.u70	negative trade balance and discriminate against national exports. But that's not the only problem. Another problem. The protocol contains a norm, the operation of this protocol may be to modify or supplement the reconciliation of the parties. These changes and additions become an integral part of the protocol. If you remember that ratified agreements are part of Ukrainian legislation, then by ratifying this rule, we are allowed to accept any changes to this gap in the future without ratifying the Supreme Council of Ukraine. That's my offer to stay out of voting for this document.
ParlaMint-UA_2013-10-23-m0.u71	The discussion is over. Ladies and gentlemen, let's move on to the decision-making process. I am voting on the draft Law on the Ratification of the Protocol between the Cabinet of Ministers of Ukraine and the Government of the Republic of Tajikistan on the Elimination of Certain Goods from the Free Trade Regime to the Agreement between the Cabinet of Ministers of Ukraine and the Government of the Republic of Tajikistan on free trade since 6 July 2001 (registration No. 0023) for adoption as a whole. People's deputies, please vote. [[12:10:11]] For a hundred and The decision is not taken. The factions. Region Party - 117, Fatherland -0, Vitalia Klicka - 0, Freedom -0, Ukrainian Company - 28, non-fractional -11. Ladies and gentlemen, I propose that this bill be sent to the committee for re-reading. I'm betting on the motion for bill 0023. Please vote. [[B in m in s a l in]] No need to shout, read the Rules: Ratifications are considered in the same way as drafts. [[B in m in s a l in]] [[12:11:06]] For-162 Article 200 of the First Rules of the Supreme Council of Ukraine. The decision is not taken. The draft Law (Registration No. 0025) on the ratification of the Agreement between the Cabinet of Ministers of Ukraine, the Government of the Russian Federation and the Government of Hungary on the transport of nuclear materials between the Russian Federation and Hungary through Ukraine is under consideration. The rapporteur is Head of the State Nuclear Regulatory Inspectorate, Nikolaychuk Olena Anatoliyevna. I propose a reduced procedure, please vote. [[12:12:05]] For 128 The decision is not taken. Please report. But the head sounded, and the head sounded, so that the people’s deputies could work without interruption today. We had a big break with you yesterday. Please.
ParlaMint-UA_2013-10-23-m0.u72	Mr. Chairman, the country's distinguished national deputies! Your opinion is proposed by the Ukrainian Law on Ratification of the Agreement between the Cabinet of Ministers of Ukraine, the Government of the Russian Federation and the Government of Hungary on the Transport of Nuclear Materials between the Russian Federation and Hungary through Ukraine. The agreement was signed on October 17, last year in the city of Kiev. According to article 26 of the Ukrainian Law on the Transport of Dangerous Goods, a treaty is subject to ratification by the Supreme Council of Ukraine. The regular transit of nuclear materials between the Russian Federation and Hungary began in the early 1980s and is aimed at ensuring the unbreakable work of the Paksh AES in Hungary. During these transports, there have been no incidents. As Ukraine gained independence, it became a matter of legal settlement of these transfers, and the governments of Hungary, the Russian Federation and Ukraine signed an agreement in December 1992 between the Government of Ukraine and the Government of the Republic of Hungary and the Government of the Russian Federation on cooperation in the field of nuclear fuel transport between the Republic of Hungary and the Russian Federation through the territory of Ukraine since 29 December 1992, which is valid today, according to which such transfers are being carried out today. At the same time, the provisions of this agreement do not correspond to the modern legislation of Ukraine and do not correspond to the international legal regimes of which all three countries have become members. In particular, this refers to dealing with civil liability for nuclear damage in the event of a nuclear incident, which is to say that the treaty provides for the escort of special cargo to Ukraine: the protection of the Russian Federation and so on. The agreement that you propose for ratification deals with security of transport, including nuclear and radiation safety, the protection of special cargoes and the distribution of party responsibility in carrying out such shipments, the provision of guarantees for the safety of the population and the environment in accordance with modern legislation and international obligations of all three parties. The agreement takes into account the provisions and principles of the Vienna Convention on Civil Liability for Nuclear Damage, the Convention on the Physical Protection of Nuclear Material, the Convention on the Rapid Notification of Nuclear Accidents, the Convention on Assistance in the Event of a Nuclear Accident or a Radiation Accident, the United Convention on the Safety of Management of Spent Fuels and the Safety of Management of Radioactive Wastes, the Regulations on the Safe Transport of Radioactive Materials in accordance with the safety standards of MAGATE, other international instruments governing the safety of transfers of nuclear materials. The conclusion of the above-mentioned agreement will allow for the improvement of the legislative base in relations between Ukraine, the Russian Federation, Hungary in the implementation of nuclear material transfers, the determination of clear mechanisms for the interaction of the competent authorities of the parties to the agreement at all stages of the transport of nuclear materials, the full resolution of the issue of nuclear and radiation security and physical protection in the conduct of the transport of nuclear materials, the compliance with the requirements of the Vienna Convention on Civil Liability for Nuclear Damage Solution in the event of a nuclear incident. After ratification, this agreement will be part of Ukraine's legislation and the legal framework for transit transfers of nuclear materials between Hungary and the Russian Federation through Ukraine, in accordance with the declared principles of good-neighbourliness and mutual cooperation with the countries of Western Europe and the Russian Federation, which will help to raise the international image of our state. Please support the bill on the ratification of the agreement. Thank you for your attention.
ParlaMint-UA_2013-10-23-m0.u73	Thank you. The question is to the reporter? None. Please sit down. Correspondent is a member of the Committee on Foreign Affairs, please.
ParlaMint-UA_2013-10-23-m0.u74	Dear colleagues! The Committee on Foreign Affairs considered the draft Ukrainian Law on Ratification of the Agreement between the Cabinet of Ministers of Ukraine, the Government of the Russian Federation and the Government of Hungary on the Transport of Nuclear Materials between the Russian Federation and Hungary through Ukraine (Registration No. 0025) and approved the decision to recommend that the Supreme Council of Ukraine accept it as a whole as a law. The main objective of the agreement is to establish a proper legal basis for the transport of nuclear materials between the Russian Federation and Hungary through Ukraine, to identify clear mechanisms for the interaction of the competent authorities of those States at all stages of the transport of special cargo, to address the issue of nuclear and radiation security and to protect the physical integrity of nuclear shipments. The main scientific and expert office of the Supreme Council of Ukraine believes that the treaty can be ratified. The Committees on Fuel Energy, Nuclear Policy and Nuclear Security and on Environmental Policy, Environmental Use and Elimination of the consequences of the Chernobyl disaster propose to the Supreme Council of Ukraine to ratify the agreement. The Committee on Budget Affairs reports that the bill will have no impact on the budget. So please support the Committee's decision in foreign matters and ratify the agreement. Thank you.
ParlaMint-UA_2013-10-23-m0.u75	Is there a question for a coconspirator? None. Please sit down. It's a faction statement. Please sign up. National MP Yavorowski, Fatherland faction, please.
ParlaMint-UA_2013-10-23-m0.u76	Vladimir Yavorowski, Troyshina, Fatherskina, the city of Kiev. The headless Kiev. I would like to say honestly that my position is splitting up. On the one hand, of course, we understand very well that we are a transit country, and we must be prepared to have a wide range of cargo flows through our territory from European countries to Russia, to other countries and so forth. We have to be ready for this. But on the other hand, no one in our government today has calculated that we can have as a transit country that can come, what is the real amount that we're setting ourselves to get into our budget, no one is counting today absolutely. I'm not talking about the state of the road that we have today in Ukraine, and from all accounts, in the next year's budget, it's actually going to actually go down or increase by a very small amount the cost of maintaining Ukrainian roads. On roads like ours, no one's going to drive, because they're like, literally, post-war Ukraine, after the explosions, the eruptions, that sort of thing. Because of this, I say again, this is one position where Ukraine can have some profit in this, and it should have. The other one. It is, of course, dangerous goods that will be transported through Ukraine. Let's not forget that today we have 800 so-called "temporary" nuclear burials in a 30km zone, that the zone itself today is a "black hole," that we today have many Ukrainian lands that are poisoned today. They're poisoned by the same Chernobyl. Because of that, I think we have to be very hard on this. It's a good thing there are some positions in this ratification. But I have little faith that today’s corrupt authorities are able to control and observe. There'll be bribes, there'll be everything in the world. But I'm saying again, I'm going to support this. Glory to Kiev, says Catherinechuk, and glory to the Trinity!
ParlaMint-UA_2013-10-23-m0.u77	Yank People's Deputy, Freedom faction.
ParlaMint-UA_2013-10-23-m0.u78	Please pass the word to Alexander Oxentiyovich Shevchenk.
ParlaMint-UA_2013-10-23-m0.u79	Put Shevchenk on the microphone.
ParlaMint-UA_2013-10-23-m0.u80	Alexander Shevchenko, Freedom faction. Ratification of the agreement between the Cabinet of Ministers of Ukraine and the Government of the Russian Federation and the Government of Hungary on the transport of nuclear materials between the Russian Federation and Hungary through Ukraine is a rather pressing problem, I would say. This is about ensuring the transport of fresh and processed fuel and other radioactive materials that are produced as a result of the processing of processed nuclear fuel, as well as empty transport packages for such materials from the Russian Federation to Hungary, from Hungary to the Russian Federation through our territory. I must say that this covenant is more perfect compared to the previous covenant. If the previous agreement, for example, stipulated that transport would be accompanied by Russian armed security and through Ukraine to the borders of Hungary and then from the borders of Hungary through Ukraine, this treaty provided for the Russian armed guard to change in Hutori Mihailovski, already in Ukraine, and Ukrainian armed protection would accompany these materials to Chop. At Chopa, he's going to be receiving cargo from Hungarian armed guards. Similarly, when the processed material is shipped from Hungary, the Ukrainian armed guard, or Hungarian territory, will take the cargo and escort it to the Kupyansk, a sorting station in the Kharkiv region. And there will be Russian armed guards. In this case, if we see that equal relations or conditions are with Hungary, Russia is not entirely equal. Russian armed guards arrive at Hutir Mihailovsky, and Russian armed guards will be escorted from Kupyansk from Ukraine. I also have to say that there is no civil liability for an accident. The party on which the accident occurred is fighting its own consequences. There is no specific indication of the civil responsibility of either the Russian or Hungarian parties, which may have resulted in the same accident. Everything relies on one side, including Ukraine. So these flaws are quite significant. But no matter what, Freedom will vote.
ParlaMint-UA_2013-10-23-m0.u81	Thank you. People's Deputy Kaplin, Vitaly Klicka faction.
ParlaMint-UA_2013-10-23-m0.u82	Please pass the word to Valentine.
ParlaMint-UA_2013-10-23-m0.u83	Turn on Valentina Navejchenka's microphone.
ParlaMint-UA_2013-10-23-m0.u84	Valentin Nastawichenko, Vitalia Klitka faction. We believe that this international agreement with the Russian Federation corresponds to the national interests of Ukraine and really demonstrates the important security contribution of Ukraine and for relations with both the European Union and the Russian Federation. The second is Ukraine's national sovereignty over the transport of dangerous goods, which in this agreement is a positive and the Vitalia Klitka faction believes that this is exactly how it should be done – to be responsible for the safety of its citizens. The third aspect. We believe that the implementation of this agreement by our side, by the EU side, or Hungary, and by the Russian Federation really gives the opportunity for the transport sector of Ukraine to develop and raise standards for the European Union, and trust by the partners of the Russian Federation is also at an appropriate level for Ukrainian partners. Then our proposal is to support ratification and to take control of the implementation by the government of financing primarily for the railway, for the Agency for Nuclear Safety of the necessary budgetary resources, where the security of Ukrainian citizens from Mihailovsky's tent to Chop is anticipated, to the border with the European Union. Thank you for your attention.
ParlaMint-UA_2013-10-23-m0.u85	National MP Jaroslav Suhi, faction of the Party of the Regions.
ParlaMint-UA_2013-10-23-m0.u86	Dear colleagues, I would like to remind everyone that Russian nuclear fuel has been transported through Ukraine since 1982. And that's when in Hungarian territory, if you recall, the Soviet Union built an atomic Paksh power station. So we're talking about a situation that's been in existence for 30 years now, and Russia is not only putting nuclear fuel into Hungary, but it's also bringing back the nuclear fuel that we've been working on and also our country's territory. A three - way agreement was signed in 1992 to settle the issue. During this time, there have been many changes in both legislation and nuclear safety. That is why we need to bring that covenant into line in 1992 with the requirements of the 1963 Vienna Convention. According to the text of the agreement, it is known that it will protect the country from potential risks and establish the legal responsibility of our partners. And it's very important, it can't be reviewed later than 10 years. Because that is the term for which it works. And I'd like to stress separately, to remind you, colleagues, we've already discussed these issues in this session room. We have a positive experience because Ukraine signed the similar agreements with Bulgaria in 2006 and Slovakia in 2010. Here before me is the Explanatory Note to the Agreement: it deals with the issue of security and the distribution of responsibility in international transfers of nuclear materials. On the one hand, it is a guarantee of environmental security, and on the other hand, it is a realization of Ukraine's advantages as a transit state. So, I think the treaty will guarantee the transport of nuclear materials with security without re-loading in Ukraine, which is what Professor Shevchenko, a colleague, has already been talking about. These are two important positions, without which Ukraine's agreement on the transit of nuclear materials in our territory cannot be possible. So the Party of Regions thinks that ratification of the document is the first thing that we need, and most of all, the Ukrainian side. I propose to support this bill. Thank you.
ParlaMint-UA_2013-10-23-m0.u87	Factions finished speaking. Please sign up for the performances of the National Deputies. National MP Lazko, non-factional.
ParlaMint-UA_2013-10-23-m0.u88	Oleg Lazko, Radical Party. Of course, the question that we are considering is vital. But I think the millions of Ukrainian citizens who are monitoring the activities of the Supreme Council are concerned about another issue. The issue of nuclear ratification could be considered in five minutes. Today on the agenda, my bill on hospital closures is not going to get there. In today’s order of business, the issue of retirement age. In today’s order, there are many other social issues that concern citizens. Instead, we consider an hour of questions that are not worth talking about for an hour. I reiterate to the citizens of Ukraine that today in Parliament we have the majority of the Party of Regions, Communists and Carcases, who work together, together, against the interests of Ukrainian citizens. Because of the Party of Regions, because of communists and because of "cargos," people don't get pensions, people don't get wages, millions of Ukrainian citizens get jobs. Through a party of regions, communists and thugs today: Treasury blocks all payments, doesn't repair kindergartens, schools, hospitals, roads, peasants can't sell their potatoes normally, milk sell! These are all the consequences of the activities of the Party of Regions, Communists and Tusks, which have been brought to the Parliament of Yatsenuk. And that's why I'm saying that in order to change the balance of power in the Supreme Council, we need to immediately consider depriving the MPs of all the "shows" that betrayed their electorate. Get out of Parliament! And together with the "carts": get out of the Parliament of the "fiddler" who brought them to Parliament, the Jacinyuka! Because the responsibility for the "cushion" in parliament is primarily to be borne by the leaders of the political forces who sold seats on the parliamentary list, tricked people before the elections, and promised to take down the Party of Regions, and actually helped the Party of the Regions by bringing "cushions" to Parliament. That's why I'm talking to Ukrainian citizens: question number one today is change of power. Question number one today is away from the Party of Regions. Question number one is that the government of Azarov resigns. But in order to resolve these questions, we need to unite. In Parliament, all the opposition deputies have to sit together, and half of them are not, because they go to the unknown, and then to the regions we nod. We know who we are, but we as opposition deputies have the same responsibility to the electorate for what is being done in Parliament. If there wasn't a box in Parliament, there would have been no communists here for a long time. Get off the Party of Regions! Shame on the Party of the Regions along with the Communists and the Cowboys!
ParlaMint-UA_2013-10-23-m0.u89	National Deputy Butkowski, faction of the Party of the Regions.
ParlaMint-UA_2013-10-23-m0.u90	National MP Butkovsky Viktor Volodymyrovich would like to convey the word to Deputy Haydosh, who knows the problem and has studied it.
ParlaMint-UA_2013-10-23-m0.u91	Turn on the microphone of the national deputy Haydosh.
ParlaMint-UA_2013-10-23-m0.u92	Istvan Haydos, faction of the Party of the Regions. President-in-chief, honourable colleagues, supporting the ratification of the Agreement between the Cabinet of Ministers of Ukraine, the Government of the Russian Federation and the Government of Hungary, I believe that this agreement provides a legal basis for the transport of special goods, or nuclear materials, to the territory of Ukraine. We all understand that these are dangerous materials, so it is important to ensure the legal mechanism of such transports, the interaction of the competent authorities of these States at all stages of transporting special equipment. I therefore propose to support this Law on the Ratification of the Agreement. This is convenient for Ukraine. Thank you.
ParlaMint-UA_2013-10-23-m0.u93	Thank you. National Deputy Guzenko, faction of the Party of the Regions.
ParlaMint-UA_2013-10-23-m0.u94	Constantine Guzenko, 30 constituency, Dnipropetrovsk district. Please give the floor to the national deputy of Žuravski.
ParlaMint-UA_2013-10-23-m0.u95	Turn on the microphone of the people’s deputy Zuravsky.
ParlaMint-UA_2013-10-23-m0.u96	Dear colleagues, I would rather not talk about politics, but specifically about this document. This document is extremely important, it, the ratification of the agreement, provides an opportunity to improve the legislative basis for relations between the Russian Federation and Hungary in the transport of nuclear materials, and to identify fully clear mechanisms for the interaction of the competent authorities of the parties at all stages of the transport of nuclear materials. Ratification of the agreement provides the opportunity to address the issue of nuclear and radiation security and physical protection once again fully in the process of transporting nuclear materials. In addition, the ratification of the treaty allows for compliance with the requirements of the Vienna Convention on Civil Liability for Nuclear Damage of 21.05. In 1963, there was an existing treaty-law base in relations between Ukraine and the Russian Federation and Hungary in the process of transporting nuclear materials to address the issue of damage compensation in the event of a nuclear incident. This document agrees with many ministries and departments. There is no claim for this document by the Scientific and Expert Department of the Supreme Council of Ukraine. Regional aspect: The draft law does not apply to the development of administrative and territorial units. Ukraine's draft law does not contain signs of discrimination and does not require public expertise. Ukraine's draft law does not contain rules and procedures that may present risks of corruption and do not require anti-corruption expertise. The draft Law does not apply to the socio-working sphere. Ukraine’s draft Law does not refer to regulatory acts and does not affect the market environment to ensure the rights and interests of operators. So I urge the national MPs to reject politics and to vote in favour of this important document. Thank you.
ParlaMint-UA_2013-10-23-m0.u97	Thank you. People's Deputies, the Vitalia Klitschka faction.
ParlaMint-UA_2013-10-23-m0.u98	Valentin Nastawichenko, Vitalia Klitka faction. I propose to our colleague Sergey Kaplin.
ParlaMint-UA_2013-10-23-m0.u99	He's giving the word to the People's Deputy Kaplan.
ParlaMint-UA_2013-10-23-m0.u100	Dear TV setters! Dear radio listeners! Colleagues, Ukrainian national deputies! The opposition every day is being challenged by various pseudo-criminals as if we don't want to work, as if we don't vote for the agenda and we don't want to decide. It is as if we do not want to solve the urgent problems of Ukraine today. Today, however, we are spending a great deal of time looking into questions that should be considered within 10 minutes. At the same time, in the Ukrainian pensioner, in the Ukrainian tax payer, in the Ukrainian peasant, in the Ukrainian producer, time is being stolen by Parliament, by most of the communists and regions, and by the system's "cushions" those who did not stand in the position of opposition and claim that there was a kind of mortgage, but at the same time they are playing Communists and regionals today. It is said that it is necessary to protect Ukrainian peasants, Ukrainians, and not to consider, and it is time to consider issues that are most important today. Three million Ukrainians live outside the poverty line and receive wages of less than 900 dollars. At the same time, Ukraine’s national deputies continue to receive all possible appeals, without Parliament’s salaries, continue to receive salary of 15,000 dollars, customs officers of 8 000 dollars, informants of 9,000 and so on. This is unacceptable, and our political power has introduced bills to balance the social rights of officials, national deputies and ordinary people. And we're our leader, Vitaly Klitschko, and our faction, our party, our supporters, together with the opposition, are urging you, when these bills are introduced, to align the rights of the national deputy with the badge, the man in the heathens and the woman who built the roads, the factories, the factories that you broke up, and who lives on that thousand bracelets today, two thirds of whom spends on their treatment because you destroyed her health because you took their maturity and youth. One billion 170 million dollars of Azarov is owed on salary today. I don't hear the position of the Ukrainian Employers' Federation, which is supposed to carry out serious monitoring and propose a solution to how to get out of this situation. Two billion today have been dependent, and people can't get money. At the same time, in just about 70 billion dollars a year, they are being stolen from tender purchases. I call on the Party of Regions to return their deputies from them. Your Moldovan foreign district, where they seem to have been chosen, and to work every day to resolve questions that are urgent today, not just Thursday at work!
ParlaMint-UA_2013-10-23-m0.u101	Have a seat. I would like to ask the national deputies to speak out, to be clear about the rules of the Rules and to speak on the subject. I now give the floor to Zurawski. Zuravsky, faction of the Party of the Regions.
ParlaMint-UA_2013-10-23-m0.u102	Dear national MPs, colleagues! I'm talking to all of you, faction leaders: there's a document. Please speak. I understand that Parliament is a political-legislative body that needs to be embroiled and political. But you can't do what the previous speaker did: not a word about the document, spit on everyone, humiliated everyone, and left the rostrum. Well, he didn't read that document. Ask me what the document is about. Not a word! You can't do that. And to the Chief, I have a proposition: Take away such MPs. And that's right, it'll match the spirit and the letter of the Ukrainian Law on Rules of Procedure of the Supreme Council of Ukraine. Thank you.
ParlaMint-UA_2013-10-23-m0.u103	National MP Momot, faction of the Party of the Regions.
ParlaMint-UA_2013-10-23-m0.u104	Alexander Momot, 27th constituency, Dnipropetrovsk, Party of Regions. Dear Head, dear colleagues! The deal needs to be backed up, it needs to be ratified, and that's why. We position our country as a transit state, which is transit, and a great transit. Secondly, it's very high-value transportation, because it's special cargo, where tariffs are very high. Thirdly, from an ecological point of view, let the decommissioned nuclear fuel go to Krasnoyarsk for processing, what it will be in our Zakarpata on the border, on the Hungarian side. And fourth, you don't have to politicize and confuse the technology of railway work and politics. The guards switch to railways where the technology of a cross - border railway station is provided, it will be either Kupyansk or another station. I have to tell you that Moscow's electric vehicles are coming to Kiev and there's nothing wrong with that. Trains should go fast. So I'm asking my colleagues to support me. Thank you for your attention.
ParlaMint-UA_2013-10-23-m0.u105	Thank you. The last speaker is the People's MP, the Freedom faction.
ParlaMint-UA_2013-10-23-m0.u106	Please give the word to Alexander the Peace.
ParlaMint-UA_2013-10-23-m0.u107	Turn on the microphone of the People's Peace MP.
ParlaMint-UA_2013-10-23-m0.u108	Alexander Mirny, the All-Ukrainian Freedom Union. Taking into account all the arguments already made in this room, it is clear that, in principle, there is a consensus that a bill should be supported. But we have to tell each other clearly, and first of all, we have to give the government a mandate that we are a great transit state, and through our territory we have a mass of cargo, including dangerous goods. Dangerous cargo is a profitable commodity in a normal country. Dangerous cargo is what a huge number of people are working on and has a normal wage, and has the opportunity to support their families in a calm manner. Unfortunately, all that happens to nuclear and fresh fuel waste is going into the general structure. So in our view, we need to pay attention to the fact that this is an additional source of revenue. That's the first one. And secondly, that then transport and our nuclear wastes and our nuclear fuel are exactly the way we can run, work with, and make money on it. Otherwise, we're just missing out on our own on the possibility of extra earnings. And in terms of infrastructure and everything else that sounded like: roads and so on, yes, that's probably important. But perhaps we should stick to the subject, the subject of consideration. Therefore, bringing our legislation to European standards is the right thing to do. The question of roads is also correct. The question of extra earnings is also correct. And let's talk about this to each other. That's why I'm going to stress again. The "Freedom" faction of the All-Ukrainian Union believes it is right to bring our legislation to a valid European one, to support the ratification of this agreement, but we stress that we have substantial observations, and we believe that Parliament should give the government a mandate to work in those directions that the All-Ukrainian Freedom Union stresses and highlights. Thank you for your attention.
ParlaMint-UA_2013-10-23-m0.u109	The speeches of the national MPs have been completed. The reply is given by Alexander Zubcevski, a representative of the Communist Party of Ukraine, a faction of Communists.
ParlaMint-UA_2013-10-23-m0.u110	Zubchevsky, the Communist faction. Dear voters, a few minutes ago, from the mouth of one member of the same faction, who first learned in the walls of Parliament that Ukraine is, it turns out, Europe, has been accused of our faction that we are delaying the important issues that our citizens need. This is a frank lie, because it is because the opposition factions did not vote on the agenda yesterday, that the Supreme Council's consideration of the issue of abolishing pension reform, introducing a moratorium on the closure of schools in rural areas, and so on. That's why it's the worst. Well, there's nothing on the mirror when the flowers are all crooked. Thank you for your attention.
ParlaMint-UA_2013-10-23-m0.u111	Let's move on to the decision-making process, ladies and gentlemen. Please prepare for the vote. I am betting on a draft bill (registration number 0025) on the ratification of the Agreement between the Cabinet of Ministers of Ukraine, the Government of the Russian Federation and the Government of Hungary on the transport of nuclear materials between the Russian Federation and Hungary through the territory of Ukraine for adoption as a basis and as a whole. People's deputies, please vote. [[12:46:48]] For 255 Decision taken. The factions. Region Party – 109, Fatherland – 45, Vitalia Klicka – 24, Freedom – 30, Ukrainian Company – 29, non-fractional – 18. The draft Law (Registration No. 0026) on the ratification of the Agreement between the Government of Ukraine and the Government of the Republic of the Sudan on cooperation in research and the use of space for peaceful purposes is being introduced. I'm making a proposal to deal with this issue with a reduced procedure. People's deputies, please vote. [[12:47:40]] For-30 The decision is not taken. Reported by the deputy head of the State Space Agency, Sergey Alexiyovich.
ParlaMint-UA_2013-10-23-m0.u112	Dear Chairman! Dear National Deputies! The agreement between the Government of Ukraine and the Government of the Republic of the Sudan on cooperation in the field of research and the use of space for peaceful purposes was signed in Kiev on September 27, 2012. The agreement calls for a proper legal and organizational basis for Ukrainian-Sudonian cooperation in the field of exploration and use of space and the use of space for peaceful purposes. The implementation of the aforementioned Ukrainian law does not require additional costs from the state budget. The draft law of Ukraine is accepted without notice by the Ministry of Economic Development and Trade, the Ministry of Foreign Affairs, the Ministry of Education and Science, the Ministry of Finance of Ukraine and the Ministry of Justice. The treaty ratified by Ukrainian law will be the legal basis for joint projects, and will contribute to the improvement of cooperation between Ukraine and the Republic of the Sudan in the space field. The agreement will allow companies to participate in external economic agreements on the supply of products and services to space-based services, and will further promote the production of the space sector of Ukraine into the global space services and technologies market. The implementation of the treaty will provide additional jobs for Ukraine in the high - tech sphere. It will facilitate the involvement of specialists in the implementation of professional tasks. On the basis of this, please support the adoption of the Ukrainian Law on the Ratification of the Agreement between the Government of Ukraine and the Republic of the Sudan on cooperation in the field of research and the use of space for peaceful purposes. Thank you for your attention.
ParlaMint-UA_2013-10-23-m0.u113	Is there a question for the reporter? Please sign up. National Deputy Oksana Kaletnik, Ukrainian Company faction.
ParlaMint-UA_2013-10-23-m0.u114	Can I have a quick question for the reporter? Please, in addition to agreeing with other institutions, can we report in more detail that we are essentially connected to the Sudan?
ParlaMint-UA_2013-10-23-m0.u115	First of all, it's the desire of the Sudan and its citizens to join the gains that Ukraine has in space, in space technology. This first calls for remote sensing of the Earth and exploration of the Earth from outer space for the agriculture of the Sudan and for exploration of the environment in Sudanese territory. In Sudan, there are several reception stations from remote sensing of Earth from satellites. They are now in such a situation that they need additional technical intervention and modernization. And the Sudanese side has asked us about the possibility of this modernization.
ParlaMint-UA_2013-10-23-m0.u116	People's deputy Lazko, non-factional.
ParlaMint-UA_2013-10-23-m0.u117	Oleg Lazko, Radical Party. I want to go to the hall. Dear colleagues, what are we doing with you? We'll be discussing the ratification of the agreement with the Sudan for an hour. We have the fourth issue of legislation to reduce the retirement age of women. I'm addressing factions of opposition, Yatzenuk is the leader of the Fatherland. Explain why you did not now vote in favour of a reduced procedure so that we today will be able to consider the issue and reduce the retirement age of women. What do you want to know about Sudan? I'm not interested in Sudan. And I think millions of Ukrainian women aren't interested in Sudan, but they're interested in retirement when they're 55. You're pulling. I demand an explanation. Let them explain to the whole country why it is taking a long time to consider secondary issues instead of considering the issue of lowering the retirement age for women today, considering the moratorium on hospital closures, and considering the question that is in order today on the moratorium.
ParlaMint-UA_2013-10-23-m0.u118	Thank you. Have a seat, please. Correspondent is a member of the Committee on Foreign Affairs of Kozub Alexander Andriyovich. Sergey Alexiyovich, please sit down.
ParlaMint-UA_2013-10-23-m0.u119	Honorary colleagues, honourable chairman, the Committee on Foreign Affairs considered the draft Ukrainian Law on Ratification of the Agreement between the Government of Ukraine and the Government of the Republic of the Sudan on Cooperation in the Field of Research and Use of Space for Peaceful Purposes (Registration No. 0026) and approved the recommendation of the above-mentioned draft Law to be adopted by the Supreme Council of Ukraine. The main objective of the agreement is to develop cooperation between Ukraine and the Republic of the Sudan in the area of space activities by establishing a legal framework for regulating the subject’s composition of legal relations, orientations and forms of cooperation, the distribution of intellectual property rights, cooperation in the field of data exchange, financing and responsibility, dispute resolution mechanisms, customs privileges, and so on. The main scientific and expert office of the Supreme Council of Ukraine believes that the treaty can be ratified. The Committee of the Supreme Council of Ukraine on Industrial and Investment Policy, having considered the bill, decided to support it and recommend that the Supreme Council of Ukraine be considered and adopted as a law as a whole. The Committee of the Supreme Council of Ukraine on Budget Issues on the outcome of the review has decided that the bill has no impact on the budgetary indicators and that if adopted, it can take effect according to legislation. Therefore, considering that the ratification of the agreement will contribute to the creation of legal grounds for cooperation between Ukraine and the Republic of the Sudan in the area of space activities in a direction that is of common interest to both sides, please support the Committee's decision in foreign matters to adopt a bill and ratify the agreement. Thank you.
ParlaMint-UA_2013-10-23-m0.u120	Thank you. The question to the coconspirator is with the national MPs? None. Thank you. Have a seat. People's deputies would like to sign up for the factions. National Deputy Shulga, Fatherland faction.
ParlaMint-UA_2013-10-23-m0.u121	Please give the floor to Deputy Stojko.
ParlaMint-UA_2013-10-23-m0.u122	I give you my word, National Deputy Stojko.
ParlaMint-UA_2013-10-23-m0.u123	Thank you for your word. The honourable presiding, respected colleagues, indeed the treaty, the ratification, more loyally, with the Sudan will benefit Ukraine and this has already been reported by two speakers from the rostrum. I'm explaining to those who don't understand, especially to the leader of the Radical Party who blamed the Fatherland. These are additional jobs, these are new technologies, these are once again the promotion of Ukraine in the international market. And that's actually what we have left in Ukraine, probably one of the most modern productions, is the space industry. And so, dear colleagues, of course, we have to support this treaty, this ratification. And once again, I'm going to explain to Mr. Oleg who took the stand against Fatherland. "Paternity" has never voted or voted in favour of a reduced procedure, because it is a violation of the Supreme Council Rules. And if you're worried about pensioners, please sell your Range Rover and switch to a regular bike bike. And it's gonna be okay. You're gonna help the pensioners. Thank you.
ParlaMint-UA_2013-10-23-m0.u124	People's Deputy Tuggnibok, Freedom faction.
ParlaMint-UA_2013-10-23-m0.u125	Pull side, Freedom. I'd like to give it to Alexander Shevchenkov.
ParlaMint-UA_2013-10-23-m0.u126	Alexander Shevchenko, Freedom faction. The Freedom faction will not vote in favour of ratifying this agreement. I would like to explain what the matter is and call on other opposition forces not to support the ratification of this bill. This agreement provides for, for example, joint scientific research, construction, manufacture, launch, operation, use of launch vehicles, satellites and other space systems, exchange of scientific and technical personnel, exchange of equipment, documentation, data and so on, and so on. The point is that the United Nations Security Council resolution of 14 February 2013 bans any technical assistance from the Sudan, including training, auxiliary repair or maintenance of aircraft, etc. I would also like to point out that the Committee on Foreign Affairs has considered this bill twice. For the first time, more than 300 million dollars were earmarked for the implementation of this agreement. Where these bracelets were to go, no one could explain. We have reason to believe that under the help mark, military equipment will be placed there, above all, and so forth. And I would also like to draw your attention to the fact that the United States has recognized Sudan as a country that supplies weapons to Sunni radicals, especially in neighbouring African countries, as well as Syria. So today we can have an explosive and dangerous situation where Ukraine can be accused of violating the UN Security Council resolution and this is essentially the case of the second ring. Therefore, the All-Ukrainian Freedom Union will not support the ratification of this agreement and will encourage other deputies to join us. Thank you for your attention.
ParlaMint-UA_2013-10-23-m0.u127	People's Deputy Kaplin, Vitaly Klicka faction.
ParlaMint-UA_2013-10-23-m0.u128	Please pass the word to Valentina Nastavajchenko.
ParlaMint-UA_2013-10-23-m0.u129	The Vitalia Klitschka faction, Valentin Nastvaichenko. For us, it is a fundamental question, you can give work to a Ukrainian citizen, to a Ukrainian citizen, and support it in Parliament. That is why this is the question and the agreement we are considering because of the fact that in Czernigov, Kiev, Kharkiv, and other cities where there is space production in Ukraine, such orders have arisen, jobs have arisen, and are worthy of wages. So we offer, by ratifying such a treaty, to open the market, including Sudan, for the Ukrainian technologies that we are proud of, and should know the whole world. We suggest that we do not play politics where it comes from filling Ukrainian factories with orders and contracts. Question two. It is important to us that such a covenant is in line with what our European partners are doing, what our Russian partners are doing. More specifically, we, as Ukraine, as a nation and our productions, are entering a serious world market for space technology. This agreement opens up this market, it increases opportunities for the Ukrainian producer, so it has to be supported outside of politics in the Ukrainian Parliament. We suggest this prism to look at this agreement, and the Vitaly Klicka faction repeats, we can expand the labor market -- we do it, we reject all other warnings. From this, our call, Vitalia Klicka and all the faction: to support, ratify the Agreement with the Sudan. Thank you for your attention.
ParlaMint-UA_2013-10-23-m0.u130	Thank you. National MP Momot, faction of the Party of the Regions.
ParlaMint-UA_2013-10-23-m0.u131	National MP Momot, 27th constituency, Dnipropetrovsk. I represent the space capital of Ukraine. And there are a lot of businesses in the space sector in various cities of Ukraine, according to the National Deputy of Nostvajchenko. We enter five countries capable of designing, building, and running spacecraft. That's the first one. Secondly, it's a huge extra load on the space sector, which unfortunately works on a reduced workday, the enterprises are not loaded, and that will give a new impetus, a new impetus to their work. And thirdly, for the world service market, including space, we have to fight and take on any customer demand. So on behalf of the Party of the Regions, I urge you to support the ratification of treaties and all colleagues from other factions as well. Thank you for your attention.
ParlaMint-UA_2013-10-23-m0.u132	Thank you, sit down. The factions are finished, please have the National Deputies sign up for the speech. Valentin Nastawichenko, Vitalia Klitka faction.
ParlaMint-UA_2013-10-23-m0.u133	Valentin Nastavajchenko, Vitalia Klitka Faction, please pass the word to Sregi Kaplin.
ParlaMint-UA_2013-10-23-m0.u134	Turn on Caplin's microphone.
ParlaMint-UA_2013-10-23-m0.u135	Sergey Kaplin, 144 constituency, the city of Poltava, secretary of the Committee on National Security and Defence, which is a profile issue. In considering the ratification of this agreement, we would have to say the same thing about the overall state of space development and note that today we have examples of an absolute and criminal one for the security of the state, for the interests of the state's innovative development, for the interests of increasing the competitiveness of Ukraine, for the underfunding of the space sector. Similarly, we can testify that strategically, tactfully, and methodologically, space programs are in no way related to absent ones, unfortunately, today in Mikola Azarova’s development programs throughout the Ukrainian economy, in general Ukrainian nationalities and mechanisms for promoting our interests abroad in the world’s markets. Under these circumstances, of course, we would have to put our emphasis on the so-called financial aspect in a different way and first of all pay attention to the so-called financial aspect. I find it unacceptable that, according to the amount of funding we have for the National Space Program, which was approved a few months ago, we have foreseen costs that are less orderly than the costs provided for the President's flight by plane, charter flights, as well as the maintenance of his helicopter park. Is it a national position when Viktor Yanukovich, on his flights, transports his body from one part of the country to another, spends less money per year than on the National Space Programmes? We are one of the 40 countries that implement their space programs. We are one of the leaders of countries with high, high space potential. And it is a crime against the Ukrainian State because someone needs to feel his own soft place in comfort. That's why our political power will support this formal step to improve our development and international cooperation, but we also do not reject the need for full and comprehensive control over those processes that relate to the development of the sector as a whole and to control that there is no corruption, so that there is no corruption. In fact, so that the sector can be properly steered and directed so effectively. was managed by the state as efficiently as it is in those forty countries that I have spoken of. In fact, 250 billion dollars a year is spent on the space industry around the world, and Ukraine spends money. Take Yanukovich.
ParlaMint-UA_2013-10-23-m0.u136	The Chechtov National Deputy, a faction of the Party of the Regions, gives the floor to the national deputy, Zurawski.
ParlaMint-UA_2013-10-23-m0.u137	Dear colleagues, we're all talking about creating extra jobs. That's very right. So the ratification of this agreement, which was signed in Kiev between the Government of Ukraine and the Government of the Sudan, makes it possible to create more than a thousand jobs. In view of that, it would be helpful to support her. I urge the deputies to do so by voting in favour. Thank you.
ParlaMint-UA_2013-10-23-m0.u138	National Deputy Cibenko, faction of the Company of Ukraine.
ParlaMint-UA_2013-10-23-m0.u139	Thank you. Communist faction, Peter Cibenko. Dear colleagues, respected citizens of Ukraine! I'm going to start by saying that the faction of the Company is definitely going to support the ratification of this law because someone has a headache about the Sudan. We have a headache about Ukraine because it's an extra job in Ukraine, it's saving the scientific and technical potential that Ukraine has so far. I say "for now," meaning that some, in a hurry to Europe, are willing to lose anything, and space, including. And what I'm saying is, I wanted to see how they could help preserve this space agreement, ratifying this agreement, given that I'm in a hurry, once again, to Europe, ready to give whatever it takes. So very little in Ukraine, unfortunately, is one of those areas where Ukraine can be proud of its achievements. So this is an unnecessary opportunity to support our space sector and the opportunity to work with other countries in space exploration and peaceful uses. And I want to say one more thing. Dear colleagues, we are sometimes proud. When we are proud of our independence, sometimes we begin to do something completely the opposite. One such national political power, the faction of which today calls for no vote in favour of this document. What is the motive? And it motivates how Uncle Sam looks at it. Well, I think we've been through this before. So the honourable colleagues, the faction of the Ukrainian Company, will certainly support this ratification, because this is a step towards supporting our manufacturer, supporting one of the most developed sectors of our industry, and this is in the interests of Ukraine, of course. Thank you.
ParlaMint-UA_2013-10-23-m0.u140	Thank you. The People's Deputy, the Freedom faction, conveys the word to the People's Deputy of Peace.
ParlaMint-UA_2013-10-23-m0.u141	Alexander Mirny, the All-Ukrainian Freedom Union. Dear Society, I understand our concern, of course, that the space-building capabilities of the Sudan are now being eased and we must immediately begin joint production of missiles, playgrounds and satellites. Obviously, this is causing a lot of anxiety, and it's clear that right now we're going to start putting all this stuff in there. It's understandable that our scientific and technological potential is consumed by the Sudan, because the space sector of the Sudan is the main focus of the country's development. But let's just be realistic. We're talking to you about a particular country right now, and we're talking to you about a country where civil war is going on. You and I remember in 2008, we remember a vessel called Faina with tanks that can also be called, in principle, space satellites, would be a wish. We understand that we can just bump into international sanctions, those people who are uninvolved looking at this ratification project. So let's stop, let's make a real argument, because the argument is to create a thousand jobs in Ukraine, it doesn't sound, because the agreement clearly says that joint production, combined with the Sudan, joint launches, joint courses. What are we talking about?Oh, my God! Where are the thousands of people who will be in Ukraine to do something about it? It won't. And the possibility of exporting military weapons to this ratification is, yes, it opens. The ability to make money on military weapons is, yes, it opens. The possibility of obtaining sanctions from international society is, yes, it is also open. So before we vote, let us take a responsible approach to what we will do. Because Ukraine's space sector is not going to save the deal with the Sudan. Let us also be honest about this. But, excuse me, being a laughingstock for the whole world is not a wish for me and the faction of the All-Ukrainian "Freedom" union. And we have to speak from the point of view of national interests, and we have to understand that the desire to make money now and today, by selling the remnants of weapons that we don't need here in Ukraine, to anyone, is now exceeding the state approach. But we don't have that. So let's get this straight, let's be clear about what we want. And we'll say that by voting with you. The All-Ukrainian Freedom Union will not support the ratification of the Treaty with the Sudan. Thank you for your attention.
ParlaMint-UA_2013-10-23-m0.u142	National MP Lazko, non-factional.
ParlaMint-UA_2013-10-23-m0.u143	Oleg Lazko, Radical Party. I will of course support the ratification of this agreement, because if we create a thousand additional jobs in Ukraine, thank God, because millions of people have lost their jobs as a result of the work of this authority. And at least someone gets this job and the opportunity to make a penny and feed their families, or at Dnipropetrovsk, or at the Cernigian factory of Cesar, where they also produce equipment for space technology, etc. But I'd like to say something else. With all due respect to our partner in the Sudan, the life issues of Ukraine are still much more important. And I think the first thing we need to do is take care of how our people live, not how they live in Sudan. In the Sudan, let them figure it out. And we were chosen to solve people’s problems with you. And, unfortunately, we don't solve them. Yesterday, the Supreme Council went around all day, "weak ass rolled," the agenda couldn't be confirmed. Today we are discussing the Sudan, this afternoon we are discussing Tajikistan. Instead of today considering a bill that stands, a reduction in the retirement age for women, a moratorium on closing hospitals, a moratorium on closing schools. Other social issues. Why were you chosen here? If you don't think about people, go to Sudan and sit there in the Sudanese Parliament! And let the terrorists take you there and drown you in the Indian Ocean. If you don't know why people chose you here! Well, finally, what I wanted to say. A colleague of mine, Stojko, advised me that if I cared so much about pensioners, I would sell my car and fill out the pension fund’s budget. John, with great pleasure! My car's eight years old, take it, buy it! I don't know where to get her. Take it, give me the money and I'll send it to the Pension Fund. But at the same time, I'm talking to your leaders to show you an example. I see Jacinuk coming to the Supreme Council every day on three Range Rovers! If you sell three Range Rovers, you can pay five thousand pensioners five years! I am watching your Yatzenuk walk along with five guards and they are all formed as assistants to the national MP! Instead of taking young boys, girls who do not know where to find a job are being killed by guards! I want you, dear colleagues, to take a look at the dome of the Supreme Council. The dome of the Supreme Council is covered with platinum! This platinum was brought here in 2008, when Yatzenuk was the Head of the Supreme Council. If you take this whole platinum and sell it and retire, half of the Ukrainian pensioners can be provided with a pension for five years. And that's why you're reading morality to someone else, not me.
ParlaMint-UA_2013-10-23-m0.u144	National Deputy Bezbach, faction of the Party of the Regions.
ParlaMint-UA_2013-10-23-m0.u145	Ladies and gentlemen, it's a very tumultuous performance. It's very nice. And I want to go back to the bill that proposes to ratify the agreement between the Government of Ukraine and the Government of the Republic of the Sudan on cooperation in the field of research and the use of space for peaceful purposes, signed on 27 September 2012 in Kiev, which defines the main directions and forms of cooperation between the Government of Ukraine and the Republic of Sudan in the relevant sphere. There was a lot of talk about guns and so on. It's not here. In addition, the agreement deals with the issues of competent authorities responsible for the development and implementation of relevant cooperation, financing, intellectual property, job creation, information and personnel exchange, dispute resolution, etc. Additional directions for cooperation will be determined by mutual agreement between the parties. I therefore propose to ratify the cooperation agreement between Ukraine and the Republic of the Sudan. Thank you.
ParlaMint-UA_2013-10-23-m0.u146	Thank you. Have a seat. People's Deputy Blaujki, Freedom faction. None. People's MP Misik, faction of the Party of the Regions. Turn on the microphone of the national deputy Haydosh.
ParlaMint-UA_2013-10-23-m0.u147	Istvan Haydos, faction of the Party of the Regions. I would like to point out that Ukraine is a space state with great scientific and technological potential. We are participating in many international programmes, working with many nations of the world in this area. And so it's positive that Ukraine is cooperating with the Republic of the Sudan in the field of exploration and use of space for peaceful purposes. The ratification of this agreement will allow us to expand our presence in the world space services and technology market. I propose to support the ratification of this agreement because it is convenient for Ukraine. Thank you.
ParlaMint-UA_2013-10-23-m0.u148	Thank you. The speeches of the National Deputies have been completed. Honorable National MPs. Is the reporter willing to announce the closing word? None. Does the narrator have a wish for a closing word? They don't. Dear colleagues, there are no replicas. You know that. I am voting on the draft Law (Registration No. 0026) on the ratification of the Agreement between the Government of Ukraine and the Government of the Republic of the Sudan on cooperation in the field of research and the use of space for peaceful purposes for adoption as a basis and as a whole. People's deputies, please vote. [[13:19:45]] For 196 The decision is not taken. The factions. Regional Party – 116, Fatherland – 24, Vitalia Klicka – 15, Freedom – 0, Ukrainian Company - 29, non-fractional – 12. The draft Law (Registration No. 0029) on the ratification of the Agreement between the Cabinet of Ministers of Ukraine and the United Arab Emirates Government on mutual protection of information with restricted access is being introduced. I'm making a proposal for a reduced procedure. People's deputies, please vote. [[13:20:38]] For the 15th. The decision is not taken. Reporter is Deputy Foreign Minister Majo Viktor Anatoliyovich, please.
ParlaMint-UA_2013-10-23-m0.u149	Dear Chairman, distinguished national MPs! On November 26, 2012, with the aim of establishing a legal framework for the exchange of information between Ukraine and the United Arab Emirates with restricted access in Abu Dhabi on an official visit by President Viktor Fedorovich Yanukovic to the country in question, the agreement between the Cabinet of Ministers of Ukraine and the United Arab Emirates Government on mutual protection of information with restricted access was signed. The International Treaty gives a charter of access restrictions "For Service Use" that does not conflict with the requirements of legislation and meet international practice. According to articles 2 and 32 of the Ukrainian State Secret Act and article 9 of the Ukrainian International Contracts Act, it is subject to ratification by the Supreme Council of Ukraine. The Ukrainian Security Service, as a special government authority in the field of State Security, has prepared a draft Ukrainian Law on Ratification of the Agreement between the Cabinet of Ministers of Ukraine and the United Arab Emirates Government on Mutual Protection of Information with Limited Access. The bill is accepted by the Ministry of Foreign Affairs, the Ministry of Economic Development and Trade, the Ministry of Finance, the Ministry of Justice. According to the legal expertise of the draft act, the Ministry of Justice concluded that Ukraine's Constitution and legislation were consistent. And by order of the Cabinet of Ministers of Ukraine since 29 May 2013, this international treaty has been submitted for ratification by the Supreme Council of Ukraine. The agreement will help: improve the effectiveness of Ukraine's interaction with the United Arab Emirates, which provides for the exchange of information with limited access in military, military and technical and scientific fields. The revitalization of the bilateral dialogue between Ukraine and the United Arab Emirates at a higher political level in recent years has allowed for the deployment of joint Ukrainian-Emirate projects in the aerospace and military-industrial spheres. The ratification of this document thus creates the necessary legal and regulatory framework for the initiation of additional bilateral projects. With this in mind, I propose to support the draft Ukrainian Law on Ratification of the Agreement between the Cabinet of Ministers of Ukraine and the United Arab Emirates Government on Mutual Protection of Information with Limited Access. Thank you for your attention.
ParlaMint-UA_2013-10-23-m0.u150	Thank you. Is there a question for the reporter? Yes. Please sign up. Victor Anatolyevich, please return to the rostrum. People's Deputy Popescu, faction of the Party of the Regions.
ParlaMint-UA_2013-10-23-m0.u151	Thank you. Sand, faction of the Party of the Regions. Your Honor, I have a question. When you reported, you said that we also had cooperation in the field of aerospace industry. And please tell us in what specific direction: is this satellite, is this about using our designs, technologies or something? What did you mean?
ParlaMint-UA_2013-10-23-m0.u152	Thank you for asking. It was meant that the United Arab Emirates today is investing heavily in the development of its own air - space program. Ukraine is an extremely interesting partner for the Arab Emirates in this direction, and we are working with the United Arab Emirates in the creation and implementation of joint projects in this area. Thank you.
ParlaMint-UA_2013-10-23-m0.u153	National Deputy Shevchenko, Freedom faction.
ParlaMint-UA_2013-10-23-m0.u154	Please tell me, what is this "restricted access information"? The concept of "restricted access information"?
ParlaMint-UA_2013-10-23-m0.u155	Thank you for asking. I mean, this contract has the term "for service use" with limited access. This is done at the request of the United Arab Emirates. We will support this because this treaty contains confidential information that applies, including our issues relating to the State’s secret. Thank you.
ParlaMint-UA_2013-10-23-m0.u156	The Orobec People's Deputy, the Fatherland faction.
ParlaMint-UA_2013-10-23-m0.u157	Dear colleagues, dear colleague from the Ministry of Foreign Affairs, please don't do this anymore. You are forcing Parliament to vote in favour of an agreement in which, I say, the overwhelming majority did not have the opportunity to read its text because you closed it. What is more, I have a huge doubt, and how do we put it into effect because the legislation of Ukraine, and this treaty becomes part of the legislation of Ukraine, comes into force only from the moment of publication? How can an international covenant be a secret? That's the first question. Question number two. I became familiar with the text of this covenant, and I say, there is no State secret, do not mislead us. This is a fairly standard text and the only reason you're putting us in such a stupid awkward situation is because it's the unique comfort of a party that hasn't figured out who it's actually making a deal with? So please find the answer to these questions, otherwise the "Paternity" faction will not support this ratification.
ParlaMint-UA_2013-10-23-m0.u158	Thank you for asking. I want to repeat this thesis that the limited access to this agreement and the "DSK" Griff was attributed to this agreement at the request of the signatory of the United Arab Emirates. This was one of the key conditions for signing this agreement. Therefore, it is usually up to the honourable national deputies to vote or not, but otherwise it will not be ratified by the Arab Emirates. Thank you.
ParlaMint-UA_2013-10-23-m0.u159	Thank you. Sit down, Viktor Anatolyovich. A member of the Committee on Foreign Affairs, Kozub Alexander Andriyovich, is invited to participate in the report.
ParlaMint-UA_2013-10-23-m0.u160	Dear colleagues! Dear Chairman! The Committee on Foreign Affairs considered the draft Ukrainian Law on Ratification of the Agreement between the Cabinet of Ministers of Ukraine and the United Arab Emirates Government on Mutual Protection of Information with Limited Access (Registration No. 0029) and approved the recommendation of the Supreme Council of Ukraine to adopt it as a whole as a law. The main objective of the agreement is to create the right legal framework for the protection of information with limited access, which will be exchanged by the parties in the course of cooperation in military, military and technical, scientific and other fields. The main scientific and expert administration of the Supreme Council of Ukraine has no objection to the ratification of the agreement. The National Security and Defence Committee, in its decision, recommends that the Supreme Council of Ukraine ratify the treaty. The Committee on Budgetary Questions, in its decision, reports that the implementation of the terms of the agreement will not have an impact on the budgetary indicators. The Committee on European Integration reports that the bill does not belong to the priority areas of adapting Ukraine's legislation to European Union legislation, and therefore does not require an expert opinion from the Committee on European Integration. So please support the Committee's decision in foreign matters and ratify the agreement. Thank you.
ParlaMint-UA_2013-10-23-m0.u161	Dear National Deputies! Is there a question for a coconspirator? None. Please take a seat, Alexander Andriyovich. I'd like you to sign up for the performances by the factions of the National Deputies. The Martínk People's Deputy, Freedom faction.
ParlaMint-UA_2013-10-23-m0.u162	Please pass the word to Eugene Melnik.
ParlaMint-UA_2013-10-23-m0.u163	Turn on the Microphone, please, People's MP Melnik.
ParlaMint-UA_2013-10-23-m0.u164	Eugene Melnik, the All-Ukrainian Freedom Union. Dear Society, the text of the agreement has not been made available for consultation on the Supreme Council website, which makes it impossible to analyse the position of the agreement. In view of the foregoing, the All-U.S. Freedom Union will not vote in favour of the agreement. We don't vote for it without knowing it's in the agreement. Thank you.
ParlaMint-UA_2013-10-23-m0.u165	National Deputy Tomenko, Fatherland faction.
ParlaMint-UA_2013-10-23-m0.u166	The faction position has already been expressed, so have we. This is a formal and meaningful part of the agreement. There are no warnings in the meaningful part of the agreement. Our experts and deputies working at the Committee on Foreign Affairs have studied this agreement and reported on the traditional content of the agreement. But nevertheless, really, this precedent, when one country has decided to set up a "CSP" and not even allow members of parliament to get to know each other, gives us a warning in form. And we also think that this precedent would have to be stopped, and in a parliament that approves decisions and ratifys international agreements, under the International Contracts Act, all MPs and experts and experts were able to get acquainted with this document. I mean, in a large account, I would probably put it off without voting, let's say, or failing a treaty or putting off a situation to see what reasons the Ministry of Foreign Affairs has for a brother state that insists on the DSP nature of this agreement. And a procedural proposal. Igor Grigorovich, please suggest to all factions that we work today in this ratification mode: speech, presentation and voting. Because I'm absolutely convinced that, of course, this is a big game, we're people who are simple deputies, we don't always understand the content of this big game, when we talk so hard in an hour about the deep content of the Agreement with the Sudan, India and the Arab Emirates, then we don't get to look at the three pension laws, the three laws that Tomenko, Yavorovsky and Klitko represent, the order of the deputies' benefits. So let's make another attempt at this mode of work: the ratification order or the reporter's bill -- we voted. And so we have a chance to at least get to the pension laws.
ParlaMint-UA_2013-10-23-m0.u167	Dear Mikolo Volodymyrovich, this issue has been discussed and we have been communicating on this subject, but it has not found its agreement in most of the people's deputies, so in order to accept your proposal right now, we need to get a corresponding 226 votes. But as you can see, that won't be possible. So let us consider how we have made a decision in accordance with the full procedure. National Deputy Zharavsky.
ParlaMint-UA_2013-10-23-m0.u168	The treaty proposed for ratification was signed in Abu Dhabi between the United Arab Emirates Government and Ukraine on November 26, 2012. This treaty lays down legal principles for the protection of information with limited access that can be exchanged between the two states in the course of cooperation. In particular, this agreement defines the appropriate terminology, the order of interaction and the treatment of such information, the equivalentity of the national graphs, and the restriction of access to such information. The need for ratification of the agreement comes out of the requirements of article 9 of the Ukrainian Law on International Contracts of Ukraine and articles 2 and 32 of the Ukrainian Law on State Mystery. And now, essentially. If. That's essentially, but in addition to what I said. Well, look at how our opposition colleagues voted: when the agreements on Sudan were being considered, Tajikistan was a zero-vote procedure. Zero! Well, if you have zero votes, don't talk! You are speaking and not voting, who is delaying the consideration of the draft Law on the Reduction of the Retirement Age? You're stalling! Next, if you want to take this bill off, you can take it off the day before, not in the course of the discussion. Read the Ukrainian Act on Rules of Procedure of the Supreme Council of Ukraine! Thank you. A party of regions of Ukraine will vote in favour of this document.
ParlaMint-UA_2013-10-23-m0.u169	Factions finished speaking. People's deputies please sign up for the speech. National Deputy Dry, faction of the Party of the Regions.
ParlaMint-UA_2013-10-23-m0.u170	Dear colleagues, I think today in the session room has shown all of our voters how low is the political culture of the Ukrainian people's deputies. Well, how many toys can you play? Now you vote. Now you vote. As a result, the legislative work of the Supreme Council of Ukraine suffers. We never, as far as I was concerned, have we ever discussed ratification in full procedure. For that there is a committee that we believe and where we have delegated, by the way, the national deputies of Ukraine from all factions. What is the point in this document? So we have ratified similar conditions with you in Cyprus, Macedonia, Slovenia, in memory, with Algeria, and with Jordan recently. This is a technical document that will only create a legal basis for further dialogue of countries in different forms. Recently, Ukrainian aircraft built branches in the United Arab Emirates to move their production abroad. It is quite clear that the Arabs demand that some of the information that is there, which would go from them to the markets, be classified or at the level of the state. Service-held information in some way. Either we're with you, I'm talking to my colleagues from the majority and the opposition, or we're going to remember, or we're actually going to be carried out by the people. You can't do that. I understand that after all the Euro-Integration Bills have been passed and that the question of Julia Volodymyrna Timoshenko will be solved, there will be nothing left, no creativity, but that's already your problem. Why should law - enforcement work suffer? Look at how much we've accumulated on the committees of questions, how much we've accumulated here right now issues that require our consideration and detailed consideration procedures. I urge you all, let us work as Ukrainian national deputies, as people who have high confidence in our electorate, without hysterics especially, without shouting and without hanging labels, discuss bills, discuss issues, but do not discuss the identity of who drives the car, who sleeps with whom. Well, do you realize that you're killing parliamentaryism on the spot with those screams, the rapes in the session room?Oh, my God! Please, let's be human. Thank you.
ParlaMint-UA_2013-10-23-m0.u171	Thank you. People's MP Mirny, Freedom faction.
ParlaMint-UA_2013-10-23-m0.u172	Alexander Mirny, the All-Ukrainian Freedom Union. Mr. Jaroslav, I am addressing you personally. When you talk about work, I agree with you. I want to remind you of the number of people in the faction of the Party of Regions: I think, if I'm not mistaken, 206 people. To vote on the reduced procedure, 150. Well, there's a party of regions that, personally, can do these things. I don't mind. The opposition does not, in principle, vote in favour of the simplified procedure. And we've said that, stated that, and said that, and we're not going to vote for the shortened procedure. Because the Rules provide for consideration. And if any of the forces -- whether they're overpowered, whether they're opposition -- consider it necessary to take a closer look at some of the issues, they have the right, and they have the right to take full advantage of that right. So no questions to the opposition. Questions to power. And if you're with the Communists, it's more than 220 people. What prevents 150 votes for a reduced procedure? Nothing. But he votes 15. So I conclude that neither the Communists nor the faction of the Party of the Regions are interested in reviewing the reduced procedure of these important ratification issues. And they're probably right, these people who don't vote for the shortened procedure. And that's what this is all about. If the questions are classified, let's probably hold either closed meetings or closed committee hearings -- and then the MPs will be familiar with the question and will support it. Clearly, the United Arab Emirates is our strategic partner. Clearly, this country and I need to work. Clearly, there is our life’s interests. Clearly, our technology is being used there. Obviously, we have to do everything we can to move on the road, to get closer to that country. But we cannot put Parliament before the fact that we vote. What it says, we won't tell you, but take our word for it, everything will be fine. We took our word today to the colonel of the police, who said, come and meet us there. We got to the door, and it turns out there's no one waiting for us. We took the floor to the secretary of the Kyiv City Council that no land issues would be considered in previous sessions when she said they would not. 131 Questions Answered Today! So let us take our word for it, but under that word, let us lay the documents. The faction of the All-Ukrainian "Freedom" union will hold.
ParlaMint-UA_2013-10-23-m0.u173	Yavorowski National Deputy, Fatherland faction.
ParlaMint-UA_2013-10-23-m0.u174	Dear colleagues! There was a call to be human. I respond to that and give my word to my neighbor on the right and to my landlady, Mikoli Catherinechuku.
ParlaMint-UA_2013-10-23-m0.u175	Turn on Mikoli Catherinechuk.
ParlaMint-UA_2013-10-23-m0.u176	Mikola Catherinechuk, Fatherland faction, European Party of Ukraine. Thank you, Mr. Yavorowski. I'd like to start with what let's think about how a year ago we started. We started fighting, blocking, refusing to see and respect each other, even listening. Today, I think most people have done everything they can to ensure that it does not exist. Therefore, the issue today is not open to opposition. Today the question of the politics that is being held in the majority. Therefore, it should not be said that something today the opposition did not. Did this opposition place 5 ratifications on the day of the opposition? No, it's not. This is done automatically by the government. And that's true, we can't film anything. We are obliged to vote. Because we are the only constitutional body, the Supreme Council of Ukraine that ratifys international agreements. In fact, it is. Well, I understand that perhaps the secret is that now, after the closure of the Cyprus Offshores, we are moving to the Arab Emirates, where there is the same possibility of minimizing some income. But there's nothing written in the treaty. So I think it's just the unprofessionalness of the MlDA workers who somehow realized that we have MPs -- rams that can be used in the dark. So here's my proposal. Mikola Tomenko made the right offer. Nevertheless, the Arab Emirates is an important market for us. And we wouldn't want our inner self to lose the ability to have a civilized relationship with this country. Hence, the request to the presiding officer. Perhaps we should put that question aside. Let me work on it, because there's nothing we can do about it, not a single letter. Distract it. Allow all deputies to study. Then perhaps the position of opposition will be different. And most of the time, I would recommend that you listen to each other, because it's time to break through each other's knees. Let's listen to each other and make a deal.
ParlaMint-UA_2013-10-23-m0.u177	National Deputy Yuri Miroshnichenko, faction of the Party of the Regions.
ParlaMint-UA_2013-10-23-m0.u178	Thank you. Dear voters, dear colleagues! So let's go back to the content of the problem that we're looking at right now. On the one hand, note both the members of our Committee on Foreign Affairs and the colleagues who are concerned in some way with the issues of cooperation with the United Arab Emirates. It is essential that our national institutions be able to work together. On the other hand, it is a perfectly fair observation by our colleagues that the Ukrainian Parliament, as the sole subject of the ratification of interstate agreements, should make its decisions consciously. Because we can't vote for what we don't know. The situation is not easy. And so each of us national deputies, I suspect, for example, that if the faction of the Party of Regions has been identified, we will support this agreement, because we, the subjects of the formation of our government, and we trust our specialists. That's a question for our opposition colleagues. Which is going to take the mountain, or our principle, or perhaps our pride, where we want to demonstrate that regardless of whether our interests are in the presence of such an agreement, or whether we are going to face development, especially when the country is in crisis. I cannot urge you to ignore the fact that our colleagues in the Arab Emirates have demanded that this treaty be with limited access. But I want to ask you, let's support this agreement, because it is a direct way to realize the interests of our voters. It's a compromise. But this is the compromise that we can and should make in the interests of our voters. Thank you for your attention.
ParlaMint-UA_2013-10-23-m0.u179	Thank you. People's Deputy of Switzerland, Freedom faction. None. National MP Blackwolf. Turn on the microphone of the people's representative of Switzerland.
ParlaMint-UA_2013-10-23-m0.u180	Igor Schwaika, faction of the All-Ukrainian Freedom Union. Society, we are currently discussing a question that needs to be found in Parliament's walls one normal conclusion, or we are considering these issues and the deputies know them, or we are not going to consider these issues, and the Supreme Council will not agree to the approval, most likely necessary for the country of agreements. I would like to remind you that a similar approach is also used by local councils. Especially in January of this year, when the issue of solar gas production in Donetsk and Kharkiv was discussed with Shell, none of the deputies who voted very friendlyly in favour of this decision, giving the Cabinet of Ministers the opportunity to make this deal, was even awarded draft agreements that were not, by the way, classified. And this has led to a lot of tension in society, because the question is: first - the rights of the community, second - the environmental situation, and third - the economic component multiplied by the legal possibilities of regulation by valid legislation. What we're looking at right now is this deal that's with the graph "DPK" can have two options: either we're taking it off the table and going back to it in a closed mode, or we're actually not going to be able to vote today to approve the agreement that our country needs for the space sector that is needed to develop the economy and create new jobs. So when the Supreme Council's apparatus is preparing similar bills, and when the PIC is preparing them, let's discuss the question of holding a closed meeting of the Supreme Council so that we can: first, see the text of the agreement itself that we are voting for, secondly, discuss, and the people's deputies have the right to discuss after receiving the relevant documents to access the state secret and to work with documents that have the term "For Service Use" so that we can look at all the issues that we need today. Under the circumstances in which this question is being considered, voting is positive for such a draft decision on the part of our faction is complicated and impossible. Thank you.
ParlaMint-UA_2013-10-23-m0.u181	National MP Blackwolf, Fatherland faction.
ParlaMint-UA_2013-10-23-m0.u182	Alexander Blackwolf, Fatherland. Now, dear friends, we have wasted our time today quite foolishly. At first, the only useful thing we could have done was set up elections in Kiev. And now we're looking at completely ridiculous questions that the Ministry of Foreign Affairs is asking us. It seems like it's going to integrate us not into Europe, not the European Union, but somewhere in Africa or the Middle East. I wanted to listen to the minister at all, and he would have told us the meaning of these agreements. Where is space, and where is Sudan? Or why do we need this covenant with the United Arab Emirates? Why should it be secret? As far as I know, the only thing we're doing right by the United Arab Emirates is selling Ukrainian barley to their camels, the main suppliers. So I don't think there's got to be anything secret here unless someone's stealing a lot. So, frankly, this is the quality of the Ministry of Foreign Affairs' work, which is the main issue to be dealt with by the Supreme Council. And one more minute, I'm asking Stoick to give it to me.
ParlaMint-UA_2013-10-23-m0.u183	According to the Rules, part of the statement is not passed, but turn on the Stakes for one minute. Stand Microphone on, please.
ParlaMint-UA_2013-10-23-m0.u184	Thank you. Thank you, Mr. Alexander. Indeed, a deal that none of the deputies actually saw, except the committee, probably, that dealt with the question, well, simply, simply absurdly, to support. In particular, I would like to point out that the National Security Committee has not seen this agreement. And that's why we shouldn't be supporting a cat in a bag today, not doing what we've never done. Indeed, if there is an agreement with limited access, with secret information, we should hold a closed session in this room, listen to what this agreement is, look at it, evaluate it and then vote. The Fatherland faction won't support this deal. And we hope that the Ministry of Foreign Affairs will continue to work in a different regime than today, open to at least deputies. Thank you.
ParlaMint-UA_2013-10-23-m0.u185	The speeches by the National Deputies have been completed. I'm asking you to include a microphone in the government's bed for the closing statement of Deputy Foreign Minister Mike Victor Anatoliyovich.
ParlaMint-UA_2013-10-23-m0.u186	Thank you. Mr. Chairman, distinguished national MPs. Thank you for asking, for the discussion. I would like to point out a few points that I think are important from the point of view of voting before this agreement. The United Arab Emirates is today a key partner in the Middle East region. And statistics show that cooperation between the two countries is very dynamic. We have an 11 percent increase in circulation last year, almost 30 percent growth this year. And this is happening to a large extent, including through cooperation in the field of the military and industrial complex. The United Arab Emirates has great interest in the further development of this cooperation, and they have great interest in developing cooperation with Ukraine in air, bronze, radio, and radio surveillance. And in order for us to move forward in the development of this cooperation, we need to sign this agreement, which will allow us to communicate normally on topics that are closed to topics that are largely a State secret both to Ukraine and to the United Arab Emirates. I must point out that now with the United Arab Emirates, we are discussing two other important agreements that will depend on whether we vote on this agreement or not. This is the Agreement between the Cabinet of Ministers and the United Arab Emirates Government on Military and Technical Cooperation, and the Agreement between the Ministry of Defence of Ukraine and Genstaba of the United Arab Emirates Armed Forces on Military Cooperation, which is at the final stage of the process. In addition to the system’s work, we often have questions that need to be dealt with quickly. As an example, I would like to cite the current presence in this region of our ship, the Gethman Sagidakny, which needs to be coordinated with the relevant United Arab Emirates services, including in a closed regime. And finally, as a conclusion, I would like to say that this is not something fundamentally new today. We have the same agreements with the charter of access restrictions already exist on the mutual protection of classified information with Israel and with Pakistan, that is, we have been through this before, and there have been no specific issues. Thank you.
ParlaMint-UA_2013-10-23-m0.u187	Thank you. A representative of the Committee on Foreign Affairs, Kozub Alexander Andriyovich, do you have a wish, a closing word? You don't. Ladies and gentlemen, please prepare for the vote. The draft Law (Registration No. 0029) on the ratification of the agreement between the Cabinet of Ministers of Ukraine and the United Arab Emirates Government on mutual protection of information with limited access for adoption in general is submitted to the vote. People's deputies, please vote. [[13:56:02]] For-119 The decision is not taken. Factions please: Region Party 88, Fatherland 0, Vitalia Klicka 0, Freedom 0, Ukrainian Company 28, non-fractional 3. Ladies and gentlemen, today at 3 p.m. in the session hall of the Supreme Council of Ukraine, there will be parliamentary hearings on the subject: "Availability and quality of general secondary education. Status and ways to improve it." The morning session of the Supreme Council of Ukraine is closed. We'll start work tomorrow at 10 o'clock.
