ParlaMint-UA_2013-06-21-m0.u1	Good morning, distinguished national deputies, invited guests of the Supreme Council of Ukraine! People's deputies, please prepare for registration. Turn on the "Race" system. [[10:06:04]] Registered -372 The morning session of the Supreme Council of Ukraine is open. Honourable National Deputies, two factions: the faction of the Party of the Regions and the faction of the Communist Party of Ukraine -- ask for a break for statements from factions. Please, Alexander Sergiyovich Efraemov.
ParlaMint-UA_2013-06-21-m0.u2	Dear Vladimir Vasilevich! [[B in m in s a l in]] Dear colleagues! Respectable listeners and disrespectful non-listening colleagues, as well as many respectable voters! Let me make a statement by the faction of the Party of the Regions. Seventy-two years ago, on the 4th of the morning of 22 June 1941, Soviet cities and villages were hit by the first German fascists, and the Great Homeland War began. The peaceful lives of our people have been torn apart by the battle of enemy bombs. 1418 days and nights of hell, destroyed cities and villages, millions of people killed on the fronts of slavery tortured in death camps, is the terrible price our people have paid for the Great Victory. Every year, on 22 June, we pay immeasurable tribute and gratitude to the millions of people of different nationalities who have been victims of one of the most terrible wars in the history of mankind. We mourn those who have fallen for the freedom of our family, we bow our heads to the bright memory of women and men, of old men and children, of all those whose fates have been broken in the terrible years of war. The Party of the Regions considers it a duty to recall that the words “Nobody forgets, nothing is forgotten” are still sacred to us. A worthy celebration of mourning, an honest account of the events of our history, a real concern for the living participants in the war is our duty to remember those who burned in the fire of world war. Tomorrow, June 22, the whole of Ukraine, every patriot of our family, every normal person will observe a minute of silence from the memory of the dead in the Great Fatherland. The Day of Grief and Remembrance is intended to serve the unity of the Ukrainian people, to bring back to the young generation historical memory and pride for the true heroes of our Fatherland. The Party of the Regions strongly condemns today's neo-Nazi display of neo-Naziism, which defiles the memory of the feats of fathers and grandfathers during the Great Homeland War. We believe in the minds of the Ukrainian people, convinced that the healthy forces of society are ready to resist extremism and intolerance in our society. We call to mind if we could prevent that terrible war? Could mankind have been prevented from allowing a beer pot, the Reichstag fire, from which the world was burning? What did it take to avoid tens of millions of human casualties? Yeah, history.
ParlaMint-UA_2013-06-21-m0.u3	Let me finish.
ParlaMint-UA_2013-06-21-m0.u4	Yeah, history doesn't have a compatible slope. But there is no doubt that the Fascist's hands were untied, especially by the consent of the then political elite of Germany, who compromised with her conscience, to indulge the Nazi leaders. History has shown that consentors are the first prisoners of concentration camps. And today, when choosing political partners, Ukrainian politicians need to learn from events that are not time-consuming. "People, be vigilant!" The famous Czech writer Julius Fuchik, who was executed in the fascist arenas, addressed mankind. Those words are still relevant today. On the eve of the day of mourning and remembrance, the Party of the Regions addresses every citizen of our country. Survive a terrible war, defeating fascism in Europe. Today we will not allow Nazism to be revived on our earth. Praise Ukraine without Nazism and fascism! Eternal memory of the heroes of the Great Homeland War! Praise the victorious people! Please honor the memory of those who died a minute of silence.
ParlaMint-UA_2013-06-21-m0.u5	Please sit down. Ladies and gentlemen, let's learn to respect each other. Let's calm down. Ladies and gentlemen, we're running out of work. Ladies and gentlemen, on Sunday we all celebrate the great festival of the Trinity, the Holy Trinity. Let us do our utmost to ensure that the unity of our people is the same as that of the Holy Trinity. I want to greet you all with a holiday! Good luck for your families! Good luck to the Ukrainian people! Two factions asked for a recess. It says, "To hold a day-to-day consultation and a statement." Please make a statement. You can decide between you and me whether you want to take a break or not. Some shout for a break, others shout for a break. Come on, say it.
ParlaMint-UA_2013-06-21-m0.u6	Yuri Mikhalchisin, the All-Ukrainian Freedom Union. Dear Volodymyr Vasilovich, distinguished national deputies! [[B in m in s a l in]] Shut up!
ParlaMint-UA_2013-06-21-m0.u7	Thank you for introducing yourself. My name is Yuri Mikhalchiin. Who are you?Oh, my God!
ParlaMint-UA_2013-06-21-m0.u8	Thank you, the Fascists have presented themselves, you may proceed. Dear Ukrainians, today we have indeed honored the moment of silence of those who died during the war, one of which began on June 22, 1941. However, I would like to remind you that the State, which has so many nostalgics in this room, was an ally of Hitler’s Germany, had parades together. Now, some people run gay parades, and then they have a joint parade of fascists and Communists in Brest, Vilnius. You wanted to have a gay parade all over Europe, but you couldn't. And so I want to remind all the normal Ukrainians that for us the war didn't start on June 22, 1941, for us the war began in 1918, when the horde from the north violated our borders and began the occupation of our state. And the guys who first met this horde under the Krauts are real heroes of Ukraine, not fictional heroes of the so-called Great Homeland War. The very concept of "Great Fatherland" is the propaganda fiction of Stalin, Szczerbakov and the Soviet agitprop. Because when they wanted to conquer the whole world, they said, "The proletarians of all countries, unite." And Marx said that proletarians don't have a Motherland. And then when they got stuck, when the German tanks came, the tanks of Goodarian, Gott, Clest, then they remembered both the identity and the fact that they had nationality, and before that they wanted to destroy it all. The war did not end for us on May 9, 1945. Not only was it the second world’s rainstorms that bombed Hiroshima and Nagasaki. By August 1945, blood was shed on the planet. And we had blood in Ukraine in 1946, and in 1947, in 1948, in 1949. And our Day of Victory, and the Day of the End of War for us, is August 24, 1991, when we finally reborn our independence. So we clearly and unequivocally state that we will not allow for falsification of history, we will not allow the rehabilitation of Stalinism, we will not allow the blacking of our heroes. And if you want a new war, it will be for you! Glory to Ukraine!
ParlaMint-UA_2013-06-21-m0.u9	What war are you talking about today? I beg of you, National Deputy Herman.
ParlaMint-UA_2013-06-21-m0.u10	Dear National Deputies! [[B in m in s a l in]] These, as our great poet wrote, "the great-grandsons are bad," are calling for war. Don't listen to them, let's start working constructively, because we can't spend time talking nonsense.
ParlaMint-UA_2013-06-21-m0.u11	Dear colleagues, the people want peace and tranquillity, not war. Honourable National Deputies, members of the Cabinet of Ministers of Ukraine are taking part in the meeting of the Supreme Council of Ukraine. Let's welcome the government of Ukraine. [[B in m in s a l in]] Have a seat. Chairman-in-Office of the Supreme Council Ukraine takes part: First Vice-Prime Minister of Culture Mr. Sergei Hennadyevich Arbuszow; Vice-Prime Minister of Ukraine Mr. Yuri Anatolievich Boyko; Vice-Prime Minister for Agriculture and Rural Affairs Ivan Yuriovich Biesuk; Minister of Interior Zachary Vitaliy Yuryovich (First Deputy Minister of Education); First Minister of Revenue and Assembly; Deputy Minister of State for the Development of Economic and Social Development Viktor Seryovich Levitsky; From the Ministry of Economics and Natural Resources [[B in m in s a l in]] [[B in m in s a l in]] Honourable deputies, in accordance with article 229 of the Supreme Council of Ukraine regulations, are held on Friday from 10 to 11 p.m. "hour of questions to the Government". The "hour of questions to the government" discusses the information of the Cabinet of Ministers of Ukraine on the preparation and marking of the 200th anniversary of the birth of Taras Grigorovovich Shevchenk, the state of roads and fire safety measures. Deputies: The parties of the region, the faction of the All-Ukrainian Union of the Fatherland, the faction of the political party Vitalia Klicka, the faction of the All-Ukrainian Union of Freedom, based on part six of article 229 of the Supreme Council of Ukraine Rules, were informed in advance by the Cabinet of Ministers of Ukraine about the questions to be asked during the "hour of questions to the Government". Answering the questions of the MP factions will be: Novotka Leonid Mihajlovich, Kozak Vladimir Vasilovich and Bolotski Mikhailovich. And the next order of the hour is proposed. Give each reporter 10 minutes to answer questions from the MP's faction. Each faction has a guaranteed right to one oral or one written question. This is part of article 230 of the Rules. For questions from members of the Cabinet of Ministers of Ukraine, take up to 30 minutes. And it's suggested that one minute at a time, you ask each oral question and two minutes at a time, to answer it. So let's go over the questions to the government from the MP factions. And I invite you to the podium of the Ministry of Culture of Ukraine, Leonid Mikhailovich Novohatak, 10 minutes in your possession. Please.
ParlaMint-UA_2013-06-21-m0.u12	Reverend Vladimir Vasilovich! The great leaders of the Ukrainian government! Distinguished People's Deputies! First of all, I want to thank you for the questions that came to the Cabinet of Ministers of Ukraine about the 200th anniversary of Taras Grigorovovich Shevchenk. In general, we are not the only ones celebrating such large round dates. And there's a classic of the 200th anniversary of Chopin that was celebrated by our Polish friends, the 200th anniversary of Verdi, Pushkin, Lehrmantov and so on. So one of these elements at the very beginning is the formation of an organizational committee in advance. For example, our Polish friends made an orgcommittee, including with the participation of Ukrainian scientists in two years. The Ukrainian government followed a similar course. And two years ago, the Cabinet of Ministers of Ukraine passed a decree marking the 200th anniversary of Taras Shevchenk's birthday. For a variety of reasons, including and perhaps some of our Slovenian features -- to tighten slowly -- the first year of execution was not ideal, let's put it that way. And that gave rise to the President of our state about a year ago to issue an edict, I would say, with a speechable and clear title for additional measures to mark the Jubilee of Taras Grigorovitch Shevchenk. In addition to these government documents, which I have called, in March of this year the government adopted another document, the President held a public humanitarian council in Caneva at Taras Grigorovovich Shevchenk's grave, and all of these, of course, were broadcast widely by the media. What do we want, I hope, along with you since the celebration of Shevchenk? What are the basic qualities, and these are in your questions, we would like to endure in preparing for this Jubilee? First of all, I think, by doing Taras Grigorovovich's will, that is, as far as possible, the political consolidation of Ukraine, the East, the West, the South and the North. Because his call, "Hold on, my brothers," I think, applies to us. Secondly, it's a social union, I mean, to make the celebration of Taras Grigorovitch Shevchenk as close as possible to the elderly and the younger, and the younger, and the public organizations, and the public institutions, and to those who are poor today, the poor, and the richer. But in this sense, we must unite. Third, it is vital that Shevchenka’s Jubilee become a uniting force for Ukrainians around the world in order to strengthen ties to the diaspora, with our organizations abroad. And these, by the way, are being done along the line of the Ministry of Foreign Affairs, as I know from a separate plan. And lastly, I think it's extremely important and it's not, I think, a dispute in this room or in Ukraine, we all want this Jubilee to become a red thread, become a cornerstone in the programming, editorial policy of all the media in Ukraine. From your questions, honourable MPs, you can group them together, the most received questions from the faction of the Party of the Regions and from the MP faction of the political party, Vitalia Klicka. Two questions are practically one point, and I'm going to read them very briefly. The faction of the Party of the Regions: "What is today the state of repair and restoration work in the Chewchenki museums?".. So is Vitaly Call's hit party. At the National Museum and its branches in Kiev, the Literary Memorial House. This type of work is the responsibility of the Ministry of Culture, which is done and so on. Dear colleagues! The central museum of Taras Shevchenk in Kiev has not been repaired since Soviet times, so it is a wonderful opportunity to lead not only to the grave of Shevchenk, which has been done in previous years, but also to the museum, although there is also much work, including through infrastructure, on the roads and so forth, in Kiev. This refers to your familiar home and its branches. To date, the government has recently allocated 27.2 million dollars of money for this repair. Just two days later, according to current legislation, this decision was considered by the Committee on Budgets in record, I would say, in terms of time. And I would like to thank all of you, honourable colleagues, particularly the members of the Committee on Budgets, for this kind of operationality, because there is not much time left for these construction work. The project is, it is designed to create better conditions both for exposure and for the work of scientists and for future exhibition activities. I can't say we have everything in a material and technical database. One of the questions of the deputy faction "HOCK" is about the archives and manuscripts of Taras Grigorovovich Shevchenk. I want to say that this question has really been suppressed since Soviet times. Today, the manuscripts are stored in a professionally prepared room where all the archives are, where there is conditioning and so on. But we'd like to, and we're working on it so that we can digitize the entire legacy so that it's more accessible so that these archives can become more accessible. And, of course, we are now working and the technical task has been since 2011 to develop the Shevchenk house, where not only the manuscripts of Shevchenk are collected in a separate room, but all the other things that are stored in today's Institute of Literature of the Academy of Sciences of Ukraine. In general, there are 200 personal funds and Frank and Lesi Ukrainiana and Scovoroda manuscripts. And they're all on paper and they're requiring the state of the art to keep it, and I think we're going to make it happen. From other measures, I want to say that we are restoring and this is in government decisions, the legacy that is also in November of this year, I hope that you and I will be together in the presentation of these restored works, particularly the Sun, the Nimichka and others. The oldest film is a classic film dating back to 1926. That's how we're doing the film "Toloka" now, other publicist films, partly on the line of the Ministry of Culture, we're funding, partly on the line of the State Committee on Television and Radio. In terms of international cooperation and one of these is from the Party of Regions, I want to say that we, the State, have asked UNESCO and other international organizations to celebrate the anniversary of Taras Grigorovitch Shevchenk on an international level. Today, such an application is accepted, especially by UNESCO, which, as you know, forms a list of memorable dates, is usually twofold. The UNESCO General Conference will address this issue in November, November, and then the General Conference. We hope, knowing how the preparations for this general conference are going, that our application will be accepted and that throughout 2014, the entire world community within the framework, including UNESCO, will celebrate the Jubilee of the Great Cobzar. We work closely with the countries where Taras Grigorovitch Shevchenko lived, where there are monuments related to his life and creativity. There is a treaty signed today, a document between the Ministry of Culture of Ukraine and the Ministry of Culture of Kazakhstan, and it is clear why, because there was an expulsion of joint investigation. Today, the government commission of Kazakhstan, they have such an authority, has established a site under Taras Grigorovitch Shevchenka’s monument in Kazakhstan’s new capital city of Astani. It's not really a monument, it's a whole five-figure sculpture. In addition, there is a draft document called "The Plan of Action for the Jubilee of Taras Grigorovich Shevchenk in the Russian Federation", which was passed to us by the Russian side. By the way, there's one section of the whole, you could say where the Russian side is, you can see how it's planning to celebrate Shewchenka's Jubilee in the regions. And that's where Ukrainian public organizations are involved. Another question was raised.
ParlaMint-UA_2013-06-21-m0.u13	Finish up.
ParlaMint-UA_2013-06-21-m0.u14	Yes. As a matter of faction, impact, the logo. Yes, indeed, that is what everyone will see. I want to say that a contest was announced, and in principle it was for as many people as possible to participate in it. 103 men took, 208 jobs. Logotype approved. A teacher from the city, an art teacher, from an art school, from the town of Ternopil.
ParlaMint-UA_2013-06-21-m0.u15	Thank you, sit down. Minister of Infrastructure Vladimir Vasilovich Kozak is invited to the rostrum. Listen to me. It'll take 30 minutes for the deputies to ask questions. Sign up and please ask. Please, you have 10 minutes.
ParlaMint-UA_2013-06-21-m0.u16	Dear Volodymyr Vasilovich, distinguished national deputies, respected members of the government! As part of the "hour of questions to the government" the MPs received 31 written questions concerning the Ministry of Infrastructure of Ukraine. In particular, from the faction of the Party of Regions, five questions, five questions, 14 questions, seven questions. Considering that the Ministry of Infrastructure is a multisectoral ministry, the answer will be given in separate fields. As far as road farming is concerned. The road network for Ukraine’s general use is 169,600 miles [169,6,000 km]. Some 52,000 miles [52 thousand km] of national roads, 117,000 miles [117,000 km] of local roads. Since the beginning of the year, the total volume of roadways that have been breached by the pit has been 64.8 thousand kilometres — 39 percent or 5.2 million square meters. This includes a national road of 25,000 miles [3 million sq m], a local road of 39,000 miles [2.2 million sq m]. Compared to the previous year, the area of pitfalls has nearly doubled. From 2.7 million square meters to 5.2 million square meters. And the process of making a hole is not going to stop. The reason for this year’s intense deposit is the prolonged winter with significant rainfall and almost daily temperature shifts from positive to negative, not meeting interrepair terms related to the underfunding of the road sector for decades. Much of the roads were built in the '60s and '70s under loads twice as modern and using tars, resins and non-conditional materials. Since 2010, roads have been built, renovated, and repaired for 4,000 miles [4.6 thousand km]. In 2008 it was 328 kilometers, in 2009 it was 192 kilometers in 2010 -- 973 kilometers, in 2011 -- 2007 kilometers, in 2012 -- 1601 kilometers. At present, these sections of the road are in good condition. In order to eliminate the pit, Ukrautododor was able to maximize its production capacity. It works daily for thousands of repair crews, 90 asphalt concrete factories, and about 12,000 road workers, which allowed it to be eliminated by 49,000 kilometres of total use roads or 4.2 million square meters of coating, that's 76 percent. And on the roads of national importance, this work is nearing completion. Thus, the total use of public value in the Autonomous Republic of Crimea, Dnipropetrovsk, Zaporzik, Lugansk, Mikolayivsk, Poltavsk, Sumski, Kharkiv, Herson, Hmelnicki, Chernigiv, and Sevastopol were eliminated. Here I want to draw attention to the invalidity of the data distributed by the media about the fact that in March, 98 percent of the roads of general use were eliminated. In fact, it was the main roads of national importance that, after the end of the winter period, were subject to the primary restoration. It is 2,600 miles [26,000 km] of strategic roads of the state and the repairs on them were actually completed during this period. In general, on the roads of general use, the work of removing the hole is planned to be completed by the end of June, and in the subsequent newly created warranty it is planned to be eliminated to the extent that it is detected. Regrettably, much of the road’s length is being destroyed to the ground, the pit repairs do not help. So on separate roads such as Zitomir-Berdics, Dnipropetrovsk-Schetylovka, Streis-Ternopil-Kirovograd-Smark, and a number of others, we've already started work on the restoration of coverage. Taking advantage of the opportunity, I want to answer that financial security is to a full extent. The quality of roads is a top priority of our work and one of the main priorities of improving roads. Quality issues are constantly referred to the working group of ministries and Ukraine, which includes leading experts and industry scientists. In order to improve the quality of road construction, it is proposed that changes be made to state building standards, where guarantees can be determined: for ground painting at least 10 years, for bridge in and for roads – not less than 10 years, for road cover – not less than 3 years. It is intended to introduce the contractor’s financial responsibility for the unapproachable performance of the work. This practice is used in Europe. To that end, the insurance company will involve independent experts of quality. Such measures will greatly improve the quality of roads and financial discipline. As a matter of quality, we are actively cooperating with the World Bank. There's a prior arrangement for an engineering company with world experience, to review the quality control system for road work at the Kravutodora. Many questions came about the aviation industry. As a question, this is the cost of inland flights in Ukraine, which is one of the largest flights in Europe. What kind of work is done by the Ministry? In 2012, 14.1 million passengers took advantage of aviation, 13.2 percent more than in 2011. During the January-May period (5 months 2013) there were 4.6 million passengers serving at Ukrainian airports, 3 percent more than in 2012. The Ministry of Infrastructure has done considerable work to improve the efficiency of airline use, improve competition and improve the operation of the entire airline market and demonopolize the market. An engagement mechanism has been put in place for this purpose. the airline and the airline incentive system. A special commission has been established to assign air carriers to use air lines. In March and May 2013, 2 meetings of the commissions were held and 97 airlines were entitled to operate, accounting for about 90 percent of air carriers’ applications. The final phase is the process of negotiating a common aviation space agreement with the EU. Six rounds of negotiations have already been held. The next one is at the end of June of this year in Kiev. Today the airline market is fully liberalized with Russia, Spain, the United Arab Emirates, and Georgia. In the near future, it is planned to liberalize the airline market with Israel and Italy. On 21-23 July 2013, a forum will be held in Donetsk for the development of air routes at airports in the SND countries, which will allow the Ukrainian airport to negotiate with airlines to open new flights and to involve new airlines. There is a work in progress from Ukraine to the first category of the United States Federal Aviation Administration, which will allow the discovery of direct long-distance flights to the United States. The inner air lines are actively developing Utair Ukraine and Air Onix. That's how Utayre Ukraine increased the volume of transportation by 3.5 times, Air Onix more than 10 times. Almost all internal air lines are operated by two or three airlines that create a competitive environment and, as a result, reduce the cost of air transport. It should be noted that the price of tickets depends on a number of factors, days, weeks, flight times, seasons, times of reservation, and so on. For example, the price for the inland flight of Kiev-Donetsk-Kiev, if you buy a ticket one day before takeoff, it costs 2 thousand 100 dollars, in one week, 1 thousand 700 dollars, in one month, 1 thousand 350 dollars. The price for the inland flight of Kiev-Livev-Kiev, if you buy a ticket one day before takeoff, it's worth it.
ParlaMint-UA_2013-06-21-m0.u17	Thank you. Have a seat. The question to the ministers will be 30 minutes for this. I ask the head of the State Service of Ukraine from the extraordinary situations of Mikhail Vasilovich Bolotski. After Bolotski's speech, there'll be a record from the MPs on the question to the ministers. Please.
ParlaMint-UA_2013-06-21-m0.u18	Dear Volodymyr Vasilovich, distinguished national deputies! Dear members of the government! Let me report on the priority measures taken to combat fires in natural ecosystems in 2013, taking into account the questions raised on the subject. Question: How is government-level work organized to combat fires in natural ecosystems in the current year? This year, Ukrhydromed Centre is forecast to rise significantly in temperature and fire risk by mid - October. The most dangerous regions are: The Autonomous Republic of Crimea, Donetsk, Dnipropetrovska, Žitomirska, Kyivska, Lugansk, Mikolaiyivska, Odessa, Kharkivska, Hersonska and Cherkas region. The state of implementation of fire prevention measures in natural ecosystems is constantly in the sphere of attention and active influence by the President of Ukraine and the government. In order to coordinate the actions of central and local authorities with the warning and elimination of extraordinary situations during the summer period, including the response to fires in natural ecosystems, the Cabinet of Ministers of Ukraine created an inter-ministerial operational headquarters on 20 May under the leadership of Vice Prime Minister Villekul Aleksandra Juriovich. The interdepartmental operational headquarters included representatives of the State Department of Emergency Situations of the Ministry of Defence, the State Department, the Ministry of Internal Affairs, and other central authorities of the executive branch. The second question is, what forces and means are expected to be involved in measures to warn and extinguish forest fires in the current year? On June 4, the first meeting of this headquarters was held, the appropriate headquarters established by the Council of Ministers of the Autonomous Republic of Crimea, the district of Kiev and Sevastopol by the city’s public administrations. At the initiative of the State Service, a meeting of the Commission on Technological and Environmental Safety and Emergency Situations was held in April to address key issues of fire prevention in natural ecosystems, and a set of precautionary measures had been introduced to ensure forest fire safety during the long Easter and May holidays. Special attention is paid to the protection of the population in the Autonomous Republic of Crimea. What about power and resources? According to the plan, there is an interdisciplinary organization of villages from the Ministry of the Interior, the Ministry of Internal Affairs and the State with a total number of more than 51,500 personnel and 10,000,600 units of basic technology. The next question is whether a system of direct fire brigades and forest management has been created to respond to forest fires. The State Service actively interacts with the Forestry Agency. We've created some interdisciplinary groups that I've just reported. The State Service is actively implementing additional measures to prevent fires, to initiate fires. the power of all levels and public organizations to protect natural ecosystems from fire. The state of fire response in the State on June 19 was further discussed at a meeting of the State Commission on Technological and Environmental Safety and Emergency. According to the government’s mandate, the State Department of Emergency Situations has been actively involved in the response to fires in natural ecosystems. The main efforts focused on the following steps: fire prevention, fire prevention, prevention of aggravation, timely response to a period of high fire risk include temporary restrictions on forest visits, forest patrols by law enforcement officers, firefighters, and representatives of the media, public and volunteer organizations. It's consistent with the plan. The Emergency Service has developed a plan to combat fires in natural ecosystems for 2013, which was reviewed by the government and commissioned to ensure its implementation. The next question is: Are separate measures to protect people from fire from cities of mass recreation, such as the Autonomous Republic of Crimea recreational zones? Dear National MPs, the main focus is on providing fire protection for cities of mass rest in the area of the Autonomous Republic of Crimea, organizing effective forest fires in a hard-to-reach mountain area, protected areas, and recreational areas. In addition, forces have been formed to interact with the Ministry of Defence, the Ministry of Internal Affairs, which is originally located in this city as a mountain city and responds to extraordinary situations. In areas where forest fires are predicted to be the most dangerous, there is a pattern of fire fighting. In particular, from the service of seven MI-8MT aircraft with water heaters and four fire-fighting aircraft. As far as the Autonomous Republic of Crimea is concerned, there is an additional formation of an aircraft component consisting of two additional AN-32p and two MI-8mt aircraft with a water catchment device. The response to fires and fires is organized according to the following principles: constant monitoring of situations; involvement of all possible units; and integrated use of land and aviation forces and means. These principles were taken into account in the practical preparation of regional units to respond to fires in natural ecosystems during April/April. This year’s measures have reduced the number of forest fires by more than four times, compared with the same period last year. On June 4th, the most extensive training was conducted in recent years to deal with emergency situations, including forest fires. Another important aspect of working to protect the population of areas from emergencies is the organization of a flood management package. Today, there is a real threat of flooding in the Odessa region, on the Ukrainian part of the Danube. A number of preventive measures have been taken to prevent and ensure a response to the possible complexity of the service, including the readiness of an echelon force formation of some 1,200 personnel and more than 300 units of basic technology.
ParlaMint-UA_2013-06-21-m0.u19	Finish up.
ParlaMint-UA_2013-06-21-m0.u20	The situation is under constant control by the government and the State Service in emergency situations. Thank you for your attention.
ParlaMint-UA_2013-06-21-m0.u21	Thank you. Have a seat. Ladies and gentlemen, questions to the government from the MPs have been completed. Let us turn to questions to the government from the national deputies of Ukraine. People's deputies please sign up for questions. The faction of the Ukrainian Company, National Deputy Gerasimchuk.
ParlaMint-UA_2013-06-21-m0.u22	I give the word to Sharov.
ParlaMint-UA_2013-06-21-m0.u23	Please, the national MP of Goncharov.
ParlaMint-UA_2013-06-21-m0.u24	I give the word to Sharov.
ParlaMint-UA_2013-06-21-m0.u25	Potterov, faction of the Ukrainian Company. I have a question for the Minister of Justice. Dear Alexander Volodymyrovich, six months after the introduction of the state registration of immovable property rights under the new rules. But as evidenced by the reference to content, Ukrejestre excuses, once again, the negative predictions of his work are justified. Thus, in most cities, due to the impossibility of registering and documenting municipal property, the process of managing municipal property is paralyzed. What are your actions with regard to correcting your situation? Is it appropriate to give this work to self - government authorities? Thank you.
ParlaMint-UA_2013-06-21-m0.u26	Please.
ParlaMint-UA_2013-06-21-m0.u27	The problem that you said about utility property is, first of all, that we had, for a long time, undocumented ownership documents, most of them in the land of municipal property and in the building area, for real estate. And it's just not possible to register without legal documents. So where these questions arise, I was interested, of course, in different regions, in the question that for 22 years no work was done on documenting the owners. So the city community, they had to do it long ago and get land ownership for local self-government, for the community. Now we've been asking our colleagues at the Land Resources Agency to help the local government sort it all out. Of course, we do all the registrations as quickly as possible when there are valid documents. That's why the question isn't Ukradrzejestre.
ParlaMint-UA_2013-06-21-m0.u28	Thank you. Chechtev, faction of the Party of the Regions.
ParlaMint-UA_2013-06-21-m0.u29	Please pass the word to Anne Herman. Thank you.
ParlaMint-UA_2013-06-21-m0.u30	Anna Herman. Please.
ParlaMint-UA_2013-06-21-m0.u31	Dear Mr. Head, I think we should first apologize to the Cabinet for the fact that this is happening in the Hall. If we invite ministers here, we ask questions, obviously we have to listen and answer them. And as Shevchenko wrote, "Golden Tamerlan's great-grandsons are bad" from "Freedom" and they didn't even hear about Shevchenko. And my question to the minister with such a beautiful name Ukrainian Cossack. We listened carefully to your report. Say, please, does what you said mean that the next spring, when the snow comes down, we won't have such a terrible picture with the roads as we had this spring? Do you guarantee that the repairs that are going on now are not for one season, but at least, as you said, for a year, for 3 or 10 years. Please tell me if your words are such a Cossack.
ParlaMint-UA_2013-06-21-m0.u32	Dear Anna Mikolayevna, I don't want to say here that the next spring everything will be very good, because the work is going to have to be done and the work is going to have to be done very much. This requires funding, which requires the participation of international organizations and other funds. So I want to assure you that the works that are done after modernization, by capital construction, by construction, they will be done very well and will serve our people for more than a year. With regard to other roads, there will be further questions on those that are currently being repaired. But we're getting ready for this, we're reforming. Today, the government is considering two laws where the structure will be changed and where it will be transparent, transparency will be so that we can pass on roads and concessions. The same question is being considered. So for one thing, we will not solve the question, but we will gradually resolve it so that our people will be content with the roads.
ParlaMint-UA_2013-06-21-m0.u33	I beg of you, Freedom Union, National MP Melnik.
ParlaMint-UA_2013-06-21-m0.u34	Please pass the word to Mrs. Irina Pharion.
ParlaMint-UA_2013-06-21-m0.u35	Please, Irina Farion.
ParlaMint-UA_2013-06-21-m0.u36	Irina Farion, the All-Ukrainian Freedom Union, the city of Lviv. I have a question for the honourable minister of culture. So, Mr. Culture Minister, what do you have to say about the defeat of the Taras Shevchenk Museum in Kanev, namely, the picture from Vasil Krichevsky. At the head of the Odystic architect Shevchenka Museum in Caneva, he was turned into a mortuary. Shevchenka was actually taken to the house by a guard. Do you intend to return to the original image of the museum? That's the first question. The second question concerns the basic Shevchenk language imperative. On occasion, I remind you of Shevchenk's words, "Don't mind the mosquitoes. Let them write in their own way and let us write in our own way. Their people have a word, and we have a nation and a word." And if Chevchenko even allowed himself to write in a foreign language, he said, "What the hell happened to me that I was a catholic in a foreign language." That's when your Ministry of Culture is going to do the development program.
ParlaMint-UA_2013-06-21-m0.u37	Answer me.
ParlaMint-UA_2013-06-21-m0.u38	Answer. The first relative to the exhibition of the Canov Museum in Canevi Shevchenkov Museum in Canev Project exposition was done. The author of the exhibition or one of the authors of the exhibition was Larissa Pavlovna Skorik. This was the result of some controversy among the community, among the intelligence, among the Chewchen scientists. To me, too, the last three to four months were, at least, two letters on this subject. That's why I know this problem. But any museum is a project, it's a scientific concept, it's a thought, it's a material thing, it's financing. You can't re-expose any museum just because someone doesn't like it, because people go there very much, thousands, and someone likes something, something doesn't like it. So the observation and the point of view of you and others we know, maybe in part, it can be taken into account, but not today, but in some re-exposure of a museum, which, in principle, in all museums periodically, the museums of the world of everything, not just us, are happening. It's about language. You know, and this room has made some decisions about that. What the Ministry of Culture is doing or is planning to do about this in the near future, I can say, the Ministry of Culture will soon take it to government, because it has already prepared, we have all the reconciliations, the concept of ethnonational politics, to some extent, there are, well, these questions. Thank you.
ParlaMint-UA_2013-06-21-m0.u39	The Fatherland faction, National Deputy Sobolev.
ParlaMint-UA_2013-06-21-m0.u40	Sobolev, the Fatherland faction. I have a question for the Minister of Internal Affairs, Zacharyczenko. Minister, the 18th of May, a group of young men who beat ordinary people, journalists, are still on the loose. The events of the Pervomayan region, where a group of 100 militants with traumatized combat weapons were shooting directly at the villagers, all of them are walking free. None taken, all the same faces from the White Church, from Kiev, from the Mikolai district. The latest events in Brovar, when our contacts from the Party of Regions decided to say that we should celebrate the scary anniversary of June 22, I have a question. As a masseuse of Azarova in the center of Borovav under the supervision of the militia, the monument and directly the Museum of Victory captures. How can this be the day before such events?
ParlaMint-UA_2013-06-21-m0.u41	First Deputy Minister of Internal Affairs, Dubovic, please.
ParlaMint-UA_2013-06-21-m0.u42	Dear National Deputies, about the events in the Mikolai district. Indeed, on July 18, this year, a telephone call was made to the front of the Pervomajski Mesquid department that there were reports of mass upheavals in the village of Chausov. After receiving the signal, we were sent by a task force. Upon arrival at the scene, it is estimated that about eight o'clock this morning, about 80 people arrived in the area of the Cornacy Agro Partners, who were trying to penetrate the territory of the agrofirms to block the exit of the technique, but this attempt was unsuccessful. Four employees of Kornatsky and one of the attackers suffered as a result of the collisions. Today, according to the results of these events, criminal conduct under part four of article 296 of the Ukrainian Penal Code is a hooliganism combined with the use of firearms and cold weapons. The penalty for these offences involves a penalty of 3 to 7 years of imprisonment. At present, some 20 persons have been delivered to the Mikolaiwi District of Pervomayus, where they may be involved in acts of bullying and the use of weapons. They're being investigated right now. The task force also works in the Mikolai region, in the Kyiv region, and in the city of Kiev. This is a question of the minister's control. You will be informed of the measures taken. Thank you.
ParlaMint-UA_2013-06-21-m0.u43	The national deputy Sharov gave the floor to the national deputy of Vaschuk. Please turn on the microphone.
ParlaMint-UA_2013-06-21-m0.u44	Katerina Vaschuk, Volin. I have a question for the Minister of Social Policy of Natalia Royal. Natalia Jurijovno, when your ministry brings about a system of sweeping the humanities. You said last time you saw a humanitarian woman coming through the Mercedes. But it's so easy to see where cars, where normal humanitarian care for hospitals, for children, baby food, clothes for the poor, all the Volin County charity organizations are screaming, endless letters and telegrams. And to this day, the loads that were unscathed before the New Year are all lying and decaying for months. I think it's a matter of honor for you and the Ministry to do so.
ParlaMint-UA_2013-06-21-m0.u45	Please, Natalia Juryovna Kraljevska.
ParlaMint-UA_2013-06-21-m0.u46	Thank you so much for asking. As for the humanitarian cargo, I want to inform the National Deputies that all the cargoes that have been sent to hospitals, children's homes, boarding houses, shelters are all blurry at the same time, there are no obstacles and there are no delays. Those humanitarian cargoes, which are not directly assigned and do not provide the final recipient of humanitarian aid, are now being checked by the monitoring bodies. And the Ministry of Social Policy is only coordinating work in this direction. So everything about the social sphere is blurry over a maximum of two or three weeks. Everything else, unfortunately, has many examples of abuse in this area. And many things have already been referred to the controlling authorities, and it is under investigation. If there are more specific examples in the national parliament, we are willing to consider this question and give a solid answer. Thank you for your attention.
ParlaMint-UA_2013-06-21-m0.u47	The faction of the Party of the Region is the national deputy of Gorokhov. Please.
ParlaMint-UA_2013-06-21-m0.u48	Sergei Gorokhov, 105 constituency, faction of the Party of the Regions. [[B in m in s a l in]] I would like to address the Deputy Minister of Income and Charges. What measures are envisaged to facilitate business and deregulation in Ukraine? Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-UA_2013-06-21-m0.u49	Please.
ParlaMint-UA_2013-06-21-m0.u50	Thank you for your attention. I would like to say a few points on this question. First of all, this is a reduction in the income tax rate and a reduction in the value added tax, which is due from 2011 on the income tax and will reduce the value added tax by 17 percent since 2014. On the other hand, we're doing a very careful job of providing additional services, so this is the payer's electronic office, it's an electronic check. And I want to say and get the support that we have drafted a bill (2045a) that will make it much easier to open your own case with regard to obtaining a VAT payer's certificate and registering the only payer. Thank you for your attention.
ParlaMint-UA_2013-06-21-m0.u51	It's a faction of the Ukrainian Company, the Kudra People's Deputy.
ParlaMint-UA_2013-06-21-m0.u52	Vladimir Kudrija, Communist Party of Ukraine, Kirovgradisht, City of Alexandria I have a question for Minister of Fuel and Energy of Stavitsky Eduardo Anatoliyovich. Dear Edward Anatolyevich, at the hands of the miners and their families, who for several years have not received any debt on salary, I would like to contact you. After Mr. Zhevago stopped giving money to the rabbit faction on the carrot a few tranches thanks probably and you got money to pay your salary. Tell me, will this continue? That's the first question. And the second question. Employees of the Morozowski cut for more than 8 years can't get a job book to count on to get the next job. Please tell me, when will this issue of publishing work books be resolved for employees of the Morozowski section? Thank you.
ParlaMint-UA_2013-06-21-m0.u53	Please, Edward Stavitsky.
ParlaMint-UA_2013-06-21-m0.u54	Thank you for asking. Dear colleagues, you know I'm from Alexandria alone, so that's what bothers me personally. I want to assure you that the Ministry has now prepared several investment projects. First of all, the Constantine cut, which is what we're talking about. Regarding the Morozov incision, we unfortunately lost it. Because those eight years that some of the people you've just mentioned worked there, they practically cut out the entire business into scrap metal. And that's why we're now working on the creation of a new company based on the Constantine cut, where we're going to have part-time workers working in the Morozian career. Thank you for asking.
ParlaMint-UA_2013-06-21-m0.u55	Freedom Federation faction, national deputy Blavajki, please.
ParlaMint-UA_2013-06-21-m0.u56	Please pass the word to Deputy Vitov. Thank you.
ParlaMint-UA_2013-06-21-m0.u57	Let's give you a word.
ParlaMint-UA_2013-06-21-m0.u58	Anatoly Vitov, the All-Ukrainian Freedom Union. I have a question for the Minister of Infrastructure. I'm going to name a few numbers right now. During the 5 months of 2013, there were 598 road accidents in Ukraine, with 28 fatalities, 129 injuries. I want to know who will be responsible for human life? The other one. In recent times, train - based vachanals have led to a distinction between many flights, beginning with Volina, a link with the Chernivs, and I have written ten questions, and I have no answer. Trains related to the Ternopil region were cancelled by five trains. And the second. I'd like to invite the minister to come to Volin on the way.
ParlaMint-UA_2013-06-21-m0.u59	Please, Vladimir Vasilovich. Accept the invitation.
ParlaMint-UA_2013-06-21-m0.u60	Dear national deputy, thank you so much for inviting me to visit you. As far as the railway is concerned. From the new schedule introduced on May 26, no passenger train was cancelled. Moreover, no passenger train from the new schedule has been canceled. What's more, the new Intercity train scheduled for Kiev is Ternopil, which is now very popular, and it's filled with 80-90 percent. So once again, we're optimizing the transport, we're very careful with the traffic and all the passengers who use the rail transport to the fullest extent possible. As for roads where there's traffic, I'll give you the figures next year. Last year there were 69,000 traffic accidents all over Ukraine, of which only 115 were related to road users, less than 0.1 percent of all traffic accidents in our country. So we're doing this kind of work, and I'm saying again that I don't want to prove to anyone that we have a normal state of travel. I stated and stated that we should do such a job, but in one year you will not do such a job. Therefore, we keep an eye on the problems that are and will solve them.
ParlaMint-UA_2013-06-21-m0.u61	Ladies and gentlemen, the hour of questions to the government is over. So I want to apologize to the government for the conduct of individual deputies and thank the government for participating in the work of the Supreme Council of Ukraine. [[Applause]] Thank you. Dear national deputies, in accordance with article 25 of the Supreme Council of Ukraine Rules, we have 30 minutes to make inquiries. We're announcing the parliamentary requests that have come. Please.
ParlaMint-UA_2013-06-21-m0.u62	Paul Rosenko, please have a word, an offer.
ParlaMint-UA_2013-06-21-m0.u63	Paul Rosenco, Vitaly Caller's Faction. Ladies and gentlemen, today the Supreme Council of Ukraine Secretariat has accumulated over 370 of our parliamentary requests and appeals to be announced by the chairman. Apparently, that's not enough for half an hour. So I'd like to ask everyone to repeat our procedure, which we're constantly continuing, and on the basis of the "Variance" in the "Variance" take another half hour so that all of our requests are announced today. Because, as you know, according to the regulations, we have only two parliamentary questions that can be announced, and in fact this is holding back our work today. So I would ask the whole room to agree on this issue right now and for half an hour at the Miscellaneous to read our questions.
ParlaMint-UA_2013-06-21-m0.u64	Ladies and gentlemen, we'll use the ad hoc procedure. I'm submitting a proposal by the national MP, Paul Rosenck, to allocate 30 minutes during the hour of the "Variable" session to continue the announcement of requests by the national deputies. Please vote. [[11:17:50]] For-200 The decision is not taken. Not supported. Say it again? Ladies and gentlemen, I repeat my offer of 30 minutes for the announcement of the nationals, requests of the national MPs in the hour of the "Virgin". Please vote. [[11:18:32]] For 230 Decision taken. I'm calling in requests. Roman Ilik to the President of Ukraine on the establishment of the John Frank National Award and the granting of the John Frank Garden Museum in the village of Nagaviwiwich of the Drogby region of Lviv National. I'll bet you a vote on the proposal to support the request. [[11:19:10]] For-80 The decision is not taken. Request not supported. The factions. Region Party 4, Parenthood, 30, Vitalia Klicka, 18, Freedom 21, Company 0, non-fractional, 7. Viacheslav Kirilenka to the President of Ukraine about the unacceptably low level of salaries paid by employees of the National Museum "Memorial of Victims of Hungermares in Ukraine", the only museum included in the State Protocol and the Ukrainian Ceremonial, which is visited by all heads of official foreign delegations, and the need to take immediate action to remedy the situation. I'm asking you to vote in favour. [[11:20:05]] Z-91 The decision is not taken. Request not supported. Jaroslav Fedorczuk to the Prime Minister of Ukraine, the Attorney General of Ukraine for the publication of a road accident plan in Ukraine and a financial and economic justification for the need for approval of the Road Management Strategy concept, which foresees a smooth increase in financing for maintenance, repair and construction of roads to forty billion dollars from the 2013 National Budget. Viacheslav Kutovov to the Minister of Internal Affairs of Ukraine regarding the unsatisfactory performance of duties as head of the Irpin City Department of the Ministry of Internal Affairs of Ukraine in the Kyiv region of Jurij Skudar. Sveslava Hanenka to the Attorney General of Ukraine, Minister of Interior of Ukraine, on the actions and inaction of the police on 23 April 2013 in the village of the city-type Novoarchangelsk Kyrovograd region. Ruslan Solvar to the head of the National Shareholder Company Naftogaz Ukraine on the need to complete the construction of the pipeline to the village of Ferm Makarov district of Kiev. Caterina Vaschuk to the Minister of Health of Ukraine regarding the provision of X - ray equipment to the Lokachin district hospital of Volinsk. Oleg Bukhovtsa to the Minister of Health of Ukraine, Minister of Social Policy of Ukraine, on a major deterioration in the state of sanatorium-sort treatment of Chaes and citizens affected by the Chernobyl disaster. Sergey Balandin to the Attorney General of Ukraine on the falsification of documents and other signs of fraudulent actions by the representatives of the builder - a limited liability society "Virgini" with regard to investors - residents of underdevelopment on the street of Kirov, 2-In the village of the town-type Gostomel Kyiv district. Sergey Balandin to the Attorney General of Ukraine regarding the illegal operation of the underground gambling slots on Vodopianov Street, 5 cities of the Horn of the Dnipropetrov region. Groups of National Deputies (Klitzka, Heratchenko, and others) A total of 6 deputies) to the Prime Minister of Ukraine, the Attorney General of Ukraine, concerning the illegal involvement of budget representatives in political actions. Vjechaslav Zadrožny to the Prime Minister of Ukraine regarding the financing of the construction of a road on the road from the roadway of Kyiv - Luhansk - Izvarne, the city of Dnipropetrovsk. Valentina Navejchenka to the Prime Minister of Ukraine on the need to take urgent measures to finance the project "Cleaning the Golden Lip River to eliminate submersibles and submersibles in the villages of Žuków, Ginović, Ternopil submersibles". Sergei Gordienka to the Attorney General of Ukraine, the Minister of Revenue and Assembly of Ukraine on the need to investigate the abuse of office, fraud and corruption by the head of the Tax Police Department of the State Tax Inspectorate in the Vistok region of Kiev. Sergei Gordienka to the Prime Minister of Ukraine, Minister of Foreign Affairs of Ukraine, Minister of Education and Science of Ukraine, on the need to take account of the practical activities and State programmes of the social and humanitarian needs of Ukrainians who are citizens of Ukraine and live in the territory of Transnistria. Andrea Shipka to the Minister of Health of Ukraine on the issue of the opening of a chronic hemodialysis unit in the city of Nicopol Dnipropetrovsk. Lilia Greenevich to Prime Minister of Ukraine on the need to increase the size of academic scholarships to students in vocational and technical schools and to students in higher education institutions of I-IV level of accreditation. Igora Schwaika to the Prime Minister of Ukraine on the verification of the participation of members of the Party of the Regions in Kharkiv on 12 April and 17 May 2013 of officials of the budgetary institutions using administrative resources. Jaroslava Dubnević to the Attorney General of Ukraine, Minister of Justice of Ukraine, regarding the failure to execute court decisions by officials of the State Executive Service. Jurija Orotyuka to the heads: Vinniecki, Volinski, Dnipropetrovski, Donetske, Žitomirski, Zakarpatski, Zaporziski, Ivano-Frankovsky, Kyivsky, Kirovogradski, Lugansk, Lvivski, Mikolai, Odessa, Poltavski, Ravenski, Sumski, Ternopilski, Harkovski, Hersonski, Hmelnicki, Cherkaske, Chernigówski, Chernigivski district administrations, Head of the Council of Ministers of the Autonomous Republic of Crimea, Head of the Kiev City Public Administration, Head of the Sevastopolski City Administration for planning and carrying out actions in connection with the 1980s of the Holocaust in 1932-1933 in Ukraine. Oleg Orotyuk to the Attorney General of Ukraine on the verification of the participation of students at the National Technical University of Poltava in the name Yuri Kondratyuka in the management of a higher educational institution in a political rally during the academic period. Anatolia Dirova to the Attorney General of Ukraine, Minister of Internal Affairs of Ukraine, on the improper investigation of the threat of murder and assault on the lives of the Ukrainian National Deputy. Oleg Heleway to the Attorney General of Ukraine, the Head of the Supreme Qualifications Commission of judges of Ukraine, the Deputy Chief Justice of the High Council of Justice on the examination of violations by judges of the Irpine City Court of Kiev, the Court of Appeal of the Kyiv Region and the Supreme Court of Justice of Ukraine on civil and criminal matters of a judicial oath and the violation of the constitutional principle of equality of all citizens before the law in the handling of a civil case and in the application of appropriate measures of response. Lilia Greenevich to the Minister of Health of Ukraine, head of the Zaporozhye District State Administration for the Non - Reformation of the Molochán Hospital in the face of the interests of citizens of the city of Molochánsk in the district of Zaporozhye. Igor Vasjunika to the Prime Minister of Ukraine on improving the procedure for the establishment of disability by medical and social expert commissions. Andrija Tajniboka to the Prime Minister of Ukraine on the need for urgent response measures aimed at the capital repair of the road of the international M06 Kyiv - Chop in the Skole - Svalja area. Michael Humil to the Attorney-General of Ukraine on the involvement of a specialist in the conduct of forensic and economic expertise in Eugenia Lyszyński. Andrija Paruba to the Attorney-General of Ukraine for bringing a person responsible for the particularly important cases of the State Tax Police Department in the Mikolai district of Nikita in connection with the violation of criminal and procedural legislation in the course of the criminal investigation for the charge of the financial director of TOV "Agrofirma Kornatsky" Ludmila Nikitana. Andrija Paruba to the head of the Supreme Qualifications Commission of Judges of Ukraine regarding the involvement of Judge Kyevo-Svetoshin of the District Court of Kiev, Yuri Burbela, in connection with the violation of criminal and procedural legislation in the course of the criminal proceedings for the charge of the financial director of the "Agrofirma Kornatsky" – People's Nikitkina. People’s Deputies ( There she is, Heratchenko and others. A total of 5 deputies) to the Minister of Internal Affairs of Ukraine to prevent law enforcement officials from holding a rally with opposition political forces on May 18, 2013. Viktor Razwadowski to Prime Minister of Ukraine on the allocation of rural road repair funds in the Lubarsk district of Žitomir. Viktor Razwadowski to the head of the Zitomir District State Administration for street lighting and fortifying the hard covering of the road in the village of Lihosilka of the Wonderland region of the Žitomir region. Stepan Kubeva to the Prime Minister of Ukraine for the broadcast of the Ukrainian Radio "Culture" in Lviv and Lviv region in the FM-diaspace. Hennady Fedorjak to the Ministry of Health of Ukraine, the Ministry of Social Policy of Ukraine, the Authorized President of Ukraine from the rights of the child on the need for every contribution to the treatment of the sick child, Yuri Koguta, abroad, in order to guarantee him an inalienable natural and unbreakable right to health care and timely medical care from the authorized authorities of the State. Valery Karpuntsov to the Attorney General of Ukraine for the full, comprehensive and objective consideration of the parliamentary appeal. Valeria Karpuntsov to the Attorney General of Ukraine for the objective conduct of a criminal investigation into the fraudulent activities of a group of persons targeting the illegal possession of Ukrainian citizens’ money. Sergey Kunicina to the Attorney General of Ukraine on violations of the rights of a third-group war invalid, a participant in fighting in Afghanistan in the allocation of his land. Taras Kutov to the Prime Minister of Ukraine for the inclusion of the renovation and restoration work of the Zakrevsky Gardens in the village of Berezov Rudka in Poland in the plan of preparations and marking 200 years from the date of Taras Shevchenk's birth and 150 years from the date of his burial. Taras Kutov to the Attorney General of Ukraine on the conduct of criminal investigation No.57-2084 and the use of prosecutorial measures. Vitalia Žuravsky to Prime Minister of Ukraine on the urgent solution to the issue of financing the renovation of the educational complex "Preschool Institute - the I-II Educational Institute" in the village of Nova Vorbay of the Malin district of Žitomir Region. Vitalia Žuravsky to Prime Minister of Ukraine for financing the completion of construction works and for the operation of the school boiler of the Czopovicki General Educational Complex of the High School Institute of Higher Education in the village of Czopovici, Malinsky District of Žitomir Region. Valentina Kraluk to Prime Minister of Ukraine on the non-admission of illegal privatization of the Smigatorf child enterprise of the state-owned company Rininetorf and the protection of the labour rights of members of the labour group of the listed enterprise. Valentina Queen to Prime Minister of Ukraine on the non-advertent decline in economic activity of the separate unit of the Lviv Railway "Locomotive depot of Zdolbonov". Oleg Pankević to the Prime Minister of Ukraine on the free provision of digital radio signals to citizens. Oleg Pankević to the Prime Minister of Ukraine on the transfer to the municipal property of the housing fund and facilities of the municipal infrastructure of the Ministry of Defence of Ukraine. Sergia Kunicina to the Prime Minister of Ukraine, the Attorney General of Ukraine, the Minister for Economic Development and Trade of Ukraine, the Minister of Social Policy of Ukraine for the violation of the rights of persons with disabilities to ensure their quality technical means of rehabilitation. Alexander Prisznyuk to the Attorney General of Ukraine, Minister of Internal Affairs of Ukraine, Head of the Ukrainian Security Service, Head of the Kyiv City State Administration on the landing of chestnuts in April this year on Khrestyk Street in Kiev. Alexander Sr. to the Attorney General of Ukraine, the Minister of Internal Affairs of Ukraine, the Head of the Security Service of Ukraine, on the legality of the management of the Open Shareholders Association "EC Žitomiroblenergo", which led to the disconnection of tens of thousands of residents of Žitomir. Peter Simonnck to the Minister of Culture of Ukraine for the preservation of the funds and the historical profile of the Jaremcan Museum of Ethnography and Ecology of the Carpathian Region. Peter Simonnka to the Minister of Education and Science of Ukraine for not allowing the closure of a school for children with special educational needs. Dmitri Andriewsky, head of the Kiev City State Administration for the creation of conditions for providing senior citizens with the Odradni Massion of the Solomonian district of Kiev with goods of primary necessity. Valery Golovka headed by the Ukrainian State Road Agency on the limitation of the right to free movement of Ukrainian citizens by 209 kilometres of M-03 Kiev-Harkov-Dužansky on 18 May 2013. Lidija Kotelak to Deputy Prime Minister of Ukraine Alexander Vilkul, Minister of Regional Development, Construction and Housing of Ukraine for the development of the National Program for Modernization of the Elevator Economy of Ukraine. Lidija Kotelak to the Minister of Internal Affairs of Ukraine for the establishment of the Novorozdil City Department of the Ministry of Interior of Ukraine in the Lviv region. Sergia Glazunova to the Prime Minister of Ukraine, Minister of Finance of Ukraine, for the approval and approval of the Environmental Action Plan under the Programme Code for the Classification of Expenditures and Credit 2401270 "Implementation of Environmental Measures" for 2013. Vladimir Dudka to Prime Minister of Ukraine on the allocation of funds for the completion of the construction of the construction of the Redwater School of Public Education No. 1. Rustama Raupov to the Attorney-General of Ukraine, Minister of Internal Affairs of Ukraine, on the appeal of Alexander the Abnegation and Maxim Golovchenk on an illegal criminal case against them. Vladimir Ariev to the Prime Minister of Ukraine on the use of urgent measures to prevent the destruction and repair of the famous house of the State Holding Company Cascade on the street of Serpova, 18 in Kiev. Hennady Fedorjak to the Cabinet of Ministers of Ukraine, Ministry of Internal Affairs of Ukraine, Ministry of Finance of Ukraine, State Migration Service of Ukraine on the need to address the urgent issue of accessibility and convenience for the population of the Glucian district of Chernivec in the area of administrative services for obtaining foreign passports. Oleg Heleway to the Attorney General of Ukraine on the legality of the actions of the officials of the Kyiv District Council regarding the restriction of the powers of the deputies of the district council and the obstacles to the exercise of the powers conferred on them. Jaroslav Fedorczuk to the Prime Minister of Ukraine, Minister of Defence of Ukraine, for not allowing the Ministry of Defence of Ukraine and the State Special Service for the Transport of Extra-Ministers and Other Executive Authorities in Land Relations, as well as for the irrational alienation of excessive fixed military assets and lands of defence as a strategic material resource of the Ukrainian Armed Forces. Alexander Mocchev to the prosecutor of the Autonomous Republic of Crimea, the Minister of Social Policy of the Autonomous Republic of Crimea, the head of the National Committee of the Autonomous Republic of Crimea and Irrigated Agriculture on the violation of labour rights of the workers of the Pervomayan Water Administration, the head of the management of Sergey Gordnicev, and the need for urgent measures to restore them. Alexander Mocchev to the head of the Autonomous Republic of Crimea Committee for Environmental Protection, Head of the State Environmental Inspection in the Autonomous Republic of Crimea, Head of the State Agricultural Inspectorate in the Autonomous Republic of Crimea on the need for a thorough examination of the facts of the arbitrary capture of the Churuk-Su River by Citizen Alexander Ivnenko and the use of immediate measures aimed at avoiding an extraordinary situation as a result of the destruction of the flood reef. Arsena Avakov to the Ministry of Foreign Affairs of Ukraine regarding the return of Ukrainian citizens to the homeland from the Republic of Turkey. Arsena Avakov to the Head of the National Architecture and Construction Inspectorate of Ukraine on violations of the rules of law in the field of construction. Groups of National Deputies (Ivahiva, Jeremeyev, and others) A total of 4 national deputies) to the Prime Minister of Ukraine, Minister of Agriculture Policy and Food of Ukraine for the Renewal of the Stable Work of Volin State Enterprises: "Kovel State Plant of Vetsanzavod Feeding Expenses", "Lucki Alcoholic Combine", and the Volinian Branch of the Ukrainian Institute of Plant Variety Expertises. Stephen Ivakhiv to Prime Minister of Ukraine, Minister of Defence of Ukraine, on the solution of the problems of the inhabitants of Military City No. 25, the city of Covellah Volin County. Irina Farion to the head of the Supreme Qualifications Commission of Judges of Ukraine on the violation of the constitutional status of Ukrainian as a national and discrimination against Ukrainian citizens by the language of the judges of the Donetsk District Administrative Court. Irina Farion to the head of the Supreme Council of Ukraine regarding the openly pro-Russian, pro-imperial and anti-Western orientation of the journal "Deputy Club Parliament" - "National MP". Vladimir Litvina to the Prime Minister of Ukraine, head of the National Shareholder Company Naftogaz Ukraine, to contribute to the repayment of the debt for the gasification of the streets of the village of Maryanovka Baraniv district of Žitomir district. The Group of Greenewecks to the Prime Minister of Ukraine on the status of implementation of President No.1-1/2832 of 19 October 2012 on the preparation and implementation of a package of measures aimed at preserving the natural complexes of the Kuyalnick Lima and Lake Sasik. Sergey Greenewecko to Prime Minister of Ukraine on the removal of residents of the city of Odessa from emergency homes. Vasil Samylenk to the Minister of Health of Ukraine for the groundless closure of the Chopper Town Hospital in the Malin district of Žitomir district. Alexander Zubcevski to the Attorney General of Ukraine, Head of the Security Service of Ukraine, on the establishment of real causes of death and the time of burial of human bodies found during excavations near the village of Pschenicki in the Tisminic region of Ivano-Frankiv region. Valery Golka to the Attorney General of Ukraine on the verification of land abuse by officials involved in the violation of the right to receive State acts of permanent use of land over 300 hectares by the State-owned Newgalestinian Biological Factory and the prosecution of those responsible. Oleg Shablatović to the Minister of Revenue and Assembly of Ukraine on the verification of the undervaluation of the customs value of the tyre product that imports into the customs territory of Ukraine, resulting in a decline in the competitiveness of domestic production and resulting loss of jobs and a decrease in income to the State budget of Ukraine. Irina Lucenko to the Secretary of the National Security and Defence Council of Ukraine on the environmental security of the Canow region's water resources and the provision of drinking artesian water to the population. Vladimir Pekhov to the Prime Minister of Ukraine on the need to take urgent measures to finance work to prevent the erosion of the lands of the Slovenian-Orutsky Cross in the area of the Orutsky region of the Žitomir region. Roman Vanzurjak to the Attorney General of Ukraine, the head of the Ukrainian Security Service, for ensuring the full, objective and qualitative verification of corruption in the Montenegrin City Council and the elimination of deficiencies in the activities of the prosecutor’s office, which caused an improper examination of parliamentary appeals on this matter. Jury Wozniak to the Minister of Ecology and Natural Resources of Ukraine, Ukraine’s Minister of Health, on the environmental situation in the villages of Rubce and the Mets of the Plains region and on the protection of the health of their inhabitants. Jury Wozniak to the Human Rights Commissioner of the Supreme Council of Ukraine on the appeal of Olga Kondratuk in connection with the conviction of her son and the admission of violations at the stage of the pretrial investigation. Oleg Tajnibok to the Minister of Health of Ukraine on the need to take measures to comply with article 49 of the Constitution of Ukraine on the provision of free medical care to residents of Chernigova and the preservation of the Czernigiv Regional Cardiological Dispensor. Vladimir Schwariluk to the Prime Minister of Ukraine on the restoration of state benefits and guarantees to children of war. Eduard Leonov to the Prime Minister of Ukraine, the Attorney General of Ukraine, the Head of the Ukrainian Security Service, the Minister of Infrastructure of Ukraine on the establishment of the legality of the stay on hydro-invasion facilities of Ukraine (Mayaks) of the armed citizens of the Russian Federation and the removal of obstacles to the privatization of housing facilities by Ukrainian citizens living in hydro-invasion facilities (Mayaks) from Russian military personnel. Edward Leonov to the Prime Minister of Ukraine, the Attorney General of Ukraine, the Head of the Ukrainian Security Service, the Minister of Internal Affairs of Ukraine for the establishment of persons who are carrying out illegal construction on the Saric mission. Sergia Soboljeva to the Attorney General of Ukraine on violations of the rule of law during the removal of land in the area of the Rosemary Rural Council of the Zaporozhye district of Zaporozhye. Alexander Dombrovski to the minister of justice of Ukraine for the protection of the rights and interests of the parents of the murdered children of Winniechna regarding the receiving of compensation for the material and moral damage caused to them by the commission of particularly serious crimes. Oleg Kanovtsa to the Prime Minister of Ukraine for bringing the size of the basic salary of the staff member of the first tariff level of the Single Tariff Network into line with the current legislation of Ukraine. Victoria Babic to the Prime Minister of Ukraine regarding the prediction in the Ukraine State Budget 2014 project of a targeted subsidy for the implementation of the measures envisaged in the Supreme Council of Ukraine's Order on the Celebration of the 75th anniversary of the formation of the Suma Region. Igora Ribakova to the Prime Minister of Ukraine, the Attorney General of Ukraine, the Head of the National Shareholder Company Naftogaz Ukraine, on the use of urgent measures to restore hot water to the population of the city of Gordni Chernigiv. Petra Prašenka and Sergey Teryochina to the Attorney General of Ukraine on the attempt to raid the holiday base for the blind Ivuška in the Obuhi district, the village of the town-type Kozin. Valerija Chernjakov to the Attorney General of Ukraine, Minister of Internal Affairs of Ukraine, Authorized Supreme Council of Ukraine for Human Rights on the verification of the commission of criminal acts by the Deputy of the Provincial Council of Zacarpathia, Volodymyr Dubljak and his son. Valerija Chernjakov to the Head of the Ukrainian Security Service, Minister of Environment and Natural Resources of Ukraine, Minister of Income and Assembly of Ukraine on the verification of the illegal transport of radioactive substances. Mikoli Katerinczuk to the Prime Minister of Ukraine, the Attorney General of Ukraine, the head of the Kyiv City Public Administration to verify the efficiency of the use of funds and to take control of further progress in the reconstruction of the Postal Square in Kiev. Andrija Shipka to the Minister of Defense of Ukraine on the use of security measures to protect the housing of the Nikopolski garrison military personnel released to the reserve and their families. Alexander Zubchevsky and Alexander the Jury to the Prime Minister of Ukraine for the establishment of economically sound electricity tariffs for the Nicolaus Ferrosupium. Alexander Turchinov to the Attorney-General of Ukraine, Minister of Interior of Ukraine, Minister of Agriculture Policy and Food of Ukraine, on the illegal pressure exerted on the working group of the Novomoskov Farm No. 11 and the dissipation of Ukraine's Agrarian Fund on a particularly large scale. Groups of National Deputies (Herasimchuka, Bukhovtsa, Balandin) to the Attorney General of Ukraine, the Head of the Security Service of Ukraine for the verification of information on the possible cooperation of the Ukrainian National Deputy Valentina Nastavajchenka with special services of the United States. Valentina Matvieva to Prime Minister of Ukraine on the threat of the elimination of the Ternopil district utility children's home for children of school age. Vasil Samylenk to the Minister of Justice of Ukraine, Attorney General of Ukraine, on the neglect of the City Council of the Zitomir Court of Appeal, issued on 20 February 2012 in case No.2a-1743/11, left in force by the Supreme Administrative Court of Ukraine, in the case of the solicitation of an association with limited responsibility of Archbudinvest-Polysia to the executive committee of the City Council of Žitomir. Vladimir Ariev to the head of the Supreme Qualifications Commission of Judges of Ukraine for a study of the circumstances of the adoption of the decision by the judge of the Dniprovsky District Court of Kiev, Natalija Czech to draw 14 million dollars from Anton Pankov (owner of the website of residents of the building on the street of Raisa Okipnay, 18). Victoria Babic to the Minister of Culture of Ukraine, head of the Sumu District State Administration for the illegal destruction of historical monuments in the territory of the Sumu region. Alexander Brigintz to the Minister of Culture of Ukraine on the need to carry out the inventory and passporting of Henry Himmler's Hegewald and other tourist routes in the village of Guyw of the Zitomir region, the Zitomir region, with the aim of developing further appropriate tourist routes. Alexander Brigintz to the Attorney General of Ukraine on the use of urgent measures of procuratorial response aimed at halting construction in front of the windows of the residences at: Zoe Hayday Street, 2 and 4 in the Obolonian district of Kyiv. Oleg Kryvetsky and Igor Krywetsky to the Attorney General of Ukraine, the Minister of Revenue and Assembly of Ukraine on the verification of the facts of the conduct of illegal documentary non-departure checks of a society with limited responsibility for Fiesta Fantastica. Oleg Nenetzkyk to the deputy head of the High Council of Justice, the head of the Supreme Qualifications Commission of Judges of Ukraine on the examination of violations of the requirements of procedural law and the adoption of an unjust verdict by the judge of the Lichakow District Court of Lvov by Galina Sheremet. Jurija Orotyuka to Minister of Foreign Affairs of Ukraine, Minister of Defence of Ukraine for the publication of all documents signed between Ukraine and Russia on 21 April 2010 in the city of Kharkiv. Roman Shugal to the Attorney General of Ukraine, prosecutor of the Czernovetsk region, on the need to verify the improper use of funds in the construction of a school in the village of Chagor Glubické district by the unitary private enterprise Santechbudmechanization, which won a tender for construction work. Romana Shugal to the head of the Antimonopoly Committee of Ukraine on the need to verify the illegal increase in water tariffs and water supply by the Novodnystrov City Executive Committee of the Chernobyl Region. Tetjana Sluz to the head of the Antimonopoly Committee of Ukraine, heads of the State Financial Inspectorate of Ukraine, Head of the State Inspectorate of Prices for the Verification of the Righteousness of Transfer to the Balance of Rapid Electric Trains of the INTERSITI Plus and INTERSITI category, and enforcement of legislation in the provision of food service to passengers on these electric trains. Tetjana Sluz to head the State Security Inspectorate of Ukraine on ground transportation to verify compliance with the requirements of legislation on the road transport of bus stops in the city of Kiev, from which buses of suburban and intercity general use are dispatched or arrived. Maxima Burbak to the Prime Minister of Ukraine for financing the construction of underwater gas pipelines in the Zastavnov region of Cherniewec. Ladies and gentlemen, the time for the request of the National Deputies is exhausted.
ParlaMint-UA_2013-06-21-m0.u65	On demand. Well, please, just a minute, Yavorowski.
ParlaMint-UA_2013-06-21-m0.u66	Vladimir Yavorowski, Trieste, Kiev Dear Volodymyr Vasilovich, I've already asked you once on this subject, and I insist once again. We do have a procedural question. After being asked to give three minutes to a national MP who is not satisfied with our Ukrainian officials. You and I didn't use a minute to do this at first. I understand, now you're going to say that we've already added half an hour to the questions, but it's still necessary that one does not interfere with the other. Because this is the position of the national MP, the answers come very often formal. Absolute quotations. And there are such sharp questions that we should still publish, as they say in Western Ukraine. Because I'm asking you, if not now, you'll have to take that into account in the next session and leave it for 3-6 minutes so that people's deputies can speak. I'm waiting for an opportunity like this, like, literally already.
ParlaMint-UA_2013-06-21-m0.u67	Volodymyr Mikhailovich. Volodymyr Alexanderovich, we agreed at 13 o'clock we'll consider the questions, the first 15 minutes I'll take to the MPs today at 13 o'clock to listen. Don't start, don't start a session. Let us consider the question. Answers that do not agree with the MPs are at 1:00 p.m. The draft Law (Registrations 2087a, 2087a-1) on amending the Final Provisions of the Ukrainian Law on Amendments to Certain Legislative Acts of Ukraine in relation to the Adoption of the Ukrainian Tax Code) on the Responsibility of Hosting Subjects using Accountants is being considered. Please vote in favour of the summary procedure. Please vote. Attention, national deputies. All the factions asked for consideration. What, we're not there? Vote? I'm asking you to take your seats. I'm asking you to invite the national MPs. Disengagement? You asked for it? So let's just say we agreed, let's think about it. There's a proposal to review the bill's draft (numbers 2087a and 2087a-1) in a simplified procedure, there's one piece of the law of that. Please vote. [[11:52:52]] For 168 Against 24, held – 2, not voted – 162. Decision taken. Let's hear it. National Deputy of Ukraine, Gorokhov Sergey Aleksandrovich, two minutes. And Ukraine's national deputy, Kugel Alexander Volodymyrna, and then you can put it to the vote. And from the committee. Please.
ParlaMint-UA_2013-06-21-m0.u68	Dear Vladimir Vasilevich, distinguished colleagues! [[B in m in s a l in]] The law is necessary for our business, and I think we need to consider it on first and second reading today, and adopt this law. It is proposed that the draft law extend until 1 July 2014 time to introduce mandatory reporting to the Public Tax Service bodies relating to the application of the Register of Accountancy Transactions and Accounting. Through a conductive or wireless channel without financial sanctions. Currently, operators need to acquire a new cash register or modem, which entails an additional cost of 1,000,200 bracelets and more. This is due to the amendment of the Ukrainian law on the use of a registrar in the calculation of trade, public nutrition and services. However, reporting by entrepreneurs in paper and electronic form does not affect the credibility or indeed such reporting. The purpose of the bill is to enable operators using the accounting transaction registrars to properly prepare, acquire and acquire the necessary means to record transactions for corrective work. I thank you for your attention and ask for your support in this bill. Thank you.
ParlaMint-UA_2013-06-21-m0.u69	Please, National Deputy Alexander Kugel.
ParlaMint-UA_2013-06-21-m0.u70	Ladies and gentlemen, this bill (2857a-1) is an example of that consolidation of deputies when it comes to supporting and developing Ukrainian entrepreneurship. I want to thank the MPs from UDARU Sold, from Freedom of Peace, from the Communists of Balandin, from the Party of Lukyanov and Tihypko for becoming co-authors of this bill. So this bill is consistent with all the active factions of the Supreme Council. Shorty, what's wrong? I stress that today it touches only those who already have cashiers. Unfortunately, it should be noted that the government, twice to which the Supreme Council had given the opportunity, had already pushed the issue of punishing entrepreneurs, was not before January 1st, and this is a personal tax administration, were not ready to introduce the law as of January 1, 2013. In May our committee held an extended meeting of our committee. I want to read the tax information on May 26th. That the situation for this day is secured and 30,000 RROs connected, which is 12 percent of the required number of RROs in Ukraine. Why did this happen? If you are a state, taking a good step from paper carriers to electronics, please prepare for the introduction of a bill, allow Ukrainian entrepreneurs to see a serious competitive market of RRO, give a transitional period, because once again I stress, they all have RROs today, which they bought at the request of the tax administration.
ParlaMint-UA_2013-06-21-m0.u71	Finish up.
ParlaMint-UA_2013-06-21-m0.u72	The warranty period is running. Our bill proposes that we postpone for a year, why? I'll just show you the last sign, and I think yours and the voters will tell you. Unfortunately, the last month's tax system has become very active and has begun to demand, entrepreneurs say it doesn't matter that you change the RRO, the main thing to pay. Because these are four companies that are tax-based. I request, please, that I ask all Ukrainian entrepreneurs to vote on the suspension of fines to entrepreneurs for the year until 1 July 2014. Thanks to all the factions.
ParlaMint-UA_2013-06-21-m0.u73	Please, head of the Committee on Tax and Customs Policy, Vitaly Yuriovich Homutinnik. I beg your attention, listen to the committee.
ParlaMint-UA_2013-06-21-m0.u74	Dear Vladimir Vasilovich! Dear colleagues! The committee supports the idea of transferring the time frame, of introducing a new reporting system from the account registry. A little bit of detail. The deadline for implementation, the term for this bill has already been passed twice, and the bill has been in existence for two years. Today, this is indeed the case when only 25 percent of business subjects use modern technology that is proposed by the introduction of the bill. For it to be. mandatory introduction and full control of fines must certainly be closer to 100 percent. But if you take the numbers, the figures say the following. In 5 months, from January to May, a little over 38,000 RROs were involved. While in the last two weeks, 30 were involved with the remaining thousands. That is, only recently, when the law is to be enacted, entrepreneurs are starting to implement these mechanisms and become involved in this system. Therefore, given that the bill has already been transposed twice and there are two years, there is a law in force, the committee recommends acceptance of the proposal of the drafters of the transfer bills. But not to move them for a year, but to move them to January 1st of the following year and to give a detailed analysis of the situation at the end of the year. Thank you.
ParlaMint-UA_2013-06-21-m0.u75	No questions asked. There's a speech. Whatever you want to talk about, I will. Please register with the faction for discussion. There was a vote, no vote, there would be a full procedure. Fatherland, Petrenko, National MP.
ParlaMint-UA_2013-06-21-m0.u76	Paul Petrenko, Fatherland. Please pass the word to Xena Lapinius.
ParlaMint-UA_2013-06-21-m0.u77	Please, Xena Lapin.
ParlaMint-UA_2013-06-21-m0.u78	Xenya Lapina, "Fatherland" faction, Party "For Ukraine!"the city of Kiev. Dear colleagues, we just need to support this law today, we need to move the terms, and we need to finally report to ourselves that this idea of total electronic reporting and even on the Internet is, unfortunately, completely failing in Ukraine and not for the first time. Imagine, in Kiev, it works on the Internet and you can do it, and what can you do, even in the Kyiv region, in all villages, is a unstable Internet? As a result, we're making extra expenses for both entrepreneurs and, I want to pay attention to the state. In fact, we need to think about the responsibility of those who through lobbyism, sorry, proposed this law and this system, which actually gives nothing to improve tax collection. So let's take the term right now, and then we'll think about how we can actually get out of this shameful situation that's happened with this electronic reporting. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-UA_2013-06-21-m0.u79	Ladies and gentlemen, there is an offer to work without interruption. May I? Sure. Party of regions, national deputy Shufrich.
ParlaMint-UA_2013-06-21-m0.u80	Thank you, Reverend Vladimir Vasilovich. Dear colleagues, of course, this law must be upheld, there is nothing to talk about. Today we are actually on the eve of a tragic date in the history of our people, I'm not afraid to say that word to the Soviet people. Because June 22nd is a tragic date in the history of our people. Most of us, yes, not most of us, are all, like it or not, born in the Soviet Union. And this nation has survived this tragedy and the Soviet people have won. Today, it was sad to note that not everyone respects the memory of the dead, but let it remain on your conscience. I'm not going to comment on the decision of the Senate of the Polish Seima, but he's also determined on the individual actions of the UPA units. Dear colleagues! Dear friends! We need to remember and respect our history. Whether you like it or not, it was the feat of the Soviet people. And that's how he'll stay in our memory. Thank you.
ParlaMint-UA_2013-06-21-m0.u81	Freedom Union, national deputy of Orotyuk.
ParlaMint-UA_2013-06-21-m0.u82	May I give the floor to the People's Deputy Michael Blavajk?
ParlaMint-UA_2013-06-21-m0.u83	Please, National Deputy Blavajki.
ParlaMint-UA_2013-06-21-m0.u84	Dear Head! Deputies! I would like to draw your attention to the fact that the Party of Regions, in the next few hours, wants to overthrow this bill that they tell us in the hall that they will support it, but then they will not vote in the end. This is a huge problem today for our Parliament, which speaks one thing and does quite another. The All-Ukrainian Union Freedom Party will support this bill because the changes made in the project should not be carried over until 1 January of the vote, from the speech of the committee head, but, as the bill states, by 1 July 2014. And don't make any more changes. And in the meantime, we're going to figure out how companies that won a bid to supply these modems, to supply unsolicited registrars, without anything today. The sum of about 2 billion today our entrepreneurs, and small and medium-sized businesses, have to invest in this program. Why does the state today just want to control the ongoing business, constantly wanting to control the business operations, and by no means does it want to help today? Our offer will then be what it takes. [[B in m in s a l in]] everything to make, propose and support this bill and allow business to work and develop. Thank you.
ParlaMint-UA_2013-06-21-m0.u85	Shufrich, for the replica. Don't touch each other, and it'll be fine.
ParlaMint-UA_2013-06-21-m0.u86	Thank you, Reverend Vladimir Vasilovich. [[B in m in s a l in]] Just now, the previous speaker has baselessly accused the Party of Regions of not voting. So I want to say in a clear language, "We're going to vote in favour of this bill as a whole as a law!".. And you and your conjectures and conjectures, now take courage and admit your wrongs if you have a drop of dignity and honor! What I sincerely doubt!
ParlaMint-UA_2013-06-21-m0.u87	People's MP Rosenko, impact faction. Please.
ParlaMint-UA_2013-06-21-m0.u88	Dear National Deputies! Dear colleagues! I ask you all who are now outside the hall to enter the hall so that you can vote. It's all about businesses, small, medium, big business, which, as of 1 July of this year, will have to pay fines, pay fines and pay money to individual government. I would like to draw your attention to the fact that those MPs who are currently not voting for this bill have a direct bearing on those who will and plan to make money on cash machines and on fines for their absence. For two months, both I personally and other deputies aligned the text of the project with the Cabinet of Ministers. He's in! During the month we asked for this bill to be put into the voting room. He's standing. This is a project signed by the five factions. WHAT he's doing is, unfortunately, he's not cancelling, but he's only putting a year in charge of what entrepreneurs shouldn't be responsible for, because from January 1st, all of Ukraine's business has been forced to pay. Pay for new cashiers, pay for new technology that someone has invented for something, but it's clear why. To make money in this situation, too. On entrepreneurs and on all consumers. I ask all the MPs not to pay any attention right now to the fact that some people are causing the vote to collapse under this bill. Only those who do not want responsibility to be suspended are provoked. I ask everyone, first of all, to participate in the preparation of a comprehensive bill amending the RRO Act in order to simplify the administration of cash machines and, secondly, to vote in favour of this bill in the first reading in the second and in general at the same time. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-UA_2013-06-21-m0.u89	The discussion is over. People's deputies, please prepare for the vote. I am voting on the draft Amendment Act (No2087a) to amend the Final Provisions Act of Ukraine on amending certain legislative acts of Ukraine in relation to the adoption of the Ukrainian Tax Code on the responsibility of economic operators who use accountancy registers as a basis. Please vote. [[12:10:12]] For-200 Against 0, held – 37, not a vote – 133. The decision is not taken. The factions. I am betting on the vote on the draft Act (No2087a-1) amending the Final Provisions of the Ukrainian Act on amending certain legislative acts of Ukraine in relation to the adoption of the Ukrainian Tax Code on the Responsibility of Hosting Subjects, which is used by Accountants to accept as a basis. Please vote. [[12:11:14]] For 292 Against - 0, held - 0, did not vote - 79. Decision taken. The factions. Ladies and gentlemen, there's a proposal, you've heard the committee's proposal, you've heard the whole of it, and you've said, "July 1, 2013" to replace it with "January 1, 2014." Such an offer - reported to the committee. May I put it to a vote? I'll bet you a vote on the committee's proposal. Please vote. Here comes the vote. [[12:12:25]] For 266 Against - 0, held - 0, did not vote - 106. Decision taken. The factions. The draft Law on Amendments before is under consideration. Ladies and gentlemen, once again, I would like to make it clear that everyone understands. I am voting on the draft Act (No. 2087a-1) amending the Final Provisions of the Ukrainian Law on Amendments to Certain Legislative Acts of Ukraine in connection with the adoption of the Ukrainian Tax Code (for the responsibilities of operators using accounting transactions registries) for adoption in general with the Committee's proposals. Please vote. [[12:14:05]] For 293 Against - 0, held - 0, did not vote - 77. Decision taken. The factions. A draft Act (No.2363-1) on amending the Final Provisions of the Ukrainian Law on the Regulation of Urban Activities (removal of the ban on land collection) is under consideration. I request the head of the Committee on the Construction of the Spiridon Pavlov Kilinkarov, please.
ParlaMint-UA_2013-06-21-m0.u90	Ladies and gentlemen, you have a bill (registration number 2363-1) to amend the Final Provisions of the Ukrainian Law on Urban Control (registration of the ban on land collection). Prepared for consideration in the second reading. In total, 7 amendments were processed, most of which allowed the content of the bill to be brought into line with the requirements of applicable legislation. It is proposed to recommend to the Supreme Council of Ukraine the adoption of a draft Act amending the Final Provisions of the Ukrainian Law on the Regulation of Urban Activities (removal of the ban on land collection) (registration number 2363-1) on second reading and as a whole.
ParlaMint-UA_2013-06-21-m0.u91	Please, the 5th amendment of the Odarchenka People's Deputy, not counted. Please turn on the Odarchenka microphone.
ParlaMint-UA_2013-06-21-m0.u92	Thank you, Vladimir Vasilovich. Dear colleagues, I ask you to listen carefully to what is being said in this amendment. Now we want to rule out the total number of cities and villages mentioned in this law, the city of Kiev. Since the documentation has been processed in Kiev, it is already possible to work on the basis of the master plan and plans, detailed plans of the territories. If this amendment is not voted out, I appeal to all the Chinese, there will continue to be an opportunity on a corrupt scale, in a corrupt scheme, to build in your backyards, to build parks, playgrounds. So I insist that this amendment be voted in full, I emphasize, and in Kiev, the chaotic construction of both the center and other cities of Kiev has been halted. Please put to the vote in full.
ParlaMint-UA_2013-06-21-m0.u93	Please, committee.
ParlaMint-UA_2013-06-21-m0.u94	Vladimir Vasilevich, I think we should put it to the vote and support this amendment in general, because I see that there are no votes in the room, and the law must be passed. Therefore, I ask all national deputies to support this amendment.
ParlaMint-UA_2013-06-21-m0.u95	I'm betting on amendment number five of the Odarchenka People's Deputies. Please vote. [[12:17:34]] For 263 Correction supported. Against - 0, held - 0, did not vote - 104. Decision taken. Amendment number 4 of Pavlovsky. Please.
ParlaMint-UA_2013-06-21-m0.u96	Andrew Pavlovsky, "Fatherland." Honorable colleagues, honorable sneezes. This amendment is designed to save the historic part of the city of Kiev, the center of Kiev, from a chaotic, barbaric barrier. So if we don't accept this amendment, we won't recognize the center of Kiev in two years. So I propose that we accept it fully in this way, or our "Paternity" faction will not vote in favour of this law.
ParlaMint-UA_2013-06-21-m0.u97	I'm asking for the attention of the people's deputies. I am voting on amendment 4 of Pavlovski’s national deputy. Please vote. Vote. [[12:18:47]] For 267 Against 0, held – 1, not a vote – 100. Decision taken. The factions. Amendment number six. Pavlovsky’s national deputy.
ParlaMint-UA_2013-06-21-m0.u98	I don't insist on this amendment.
ParlaMint-UA_2013-06-21-m0.u99	You don't get it, do you? Don't insist. Seven? Proposal 7 of the amendment is made to vote in favour. Please vote for the people's deputies. [[12:19:52]] For a hundred and Correction not supported. "Aye" -- 150 versus 2, held -- 16, not voted: 196. The decision is not taken. Please, National Deputy Martinjuk Adam Ivanovich. Please.
ParlaMint-UA_2013-06-21-m0.u100	Thank you, Vladimir Vasilovich. Martinyuk, faction of the Communist Party of Ukraine. Dear Volodymyr Vasilovich, let's stop at one of the amendments 4 or 5, because they almost complement each other, but they deny each other. So he has the right to life either one or the other. Because if we write two in a row, it's going to be the same norm, just written in two languages.
ParlaMint-UA_2013-06-21-m0.u101	Please, the committee. Please.
ParlaMint-UA_2013-06-21-m0.u102	I ask Pavlovsky to withdraw his amendment number 4 and leave the 5th amendment.
ParlaMint-UA_2013-06-21-m0.u103	Pavlovski, turn on the microphone. Are you filming?
ParlaMint-UA_2013-06-21-m0.u104	I insist that there be a full repair of Yuri Odarchenk. It's as he suggested.
ParlaMint-UA_2013-06-21-m0.u105	It's already been counted.
ParlaMint-UA_2013-06-21-m0.u106	It is a complete account of the amendment of the Odarchenka People's Deputy. Ladies and gentlemen, I am voting on the draft Act (2363-1) amending the Final Provisions of the Ukrainian Law on Urban Activity Regulation (removal of the ban on land collection). Accept in the second reading and in general. Please vote. [[12:21:50]] For 273 Against - 2, held - 2, did not vote - 91. Decision taken. The factions. The draft Law (No. 2731) on amending certain Ukrainian laws on transparency of property relations with regard to the media is under consideration. How do we view it? I'm sorry. I'm sorry. I'm sorry. I'm sorry. Please vote. [[12:22:36]] For a hundred and Against 35, held – 11, did not vote – 162. Decision taken. First Deputy Justice Minister Ivanovna Jemelyanov. Please.
ParlaMint-UA_2013-06-21-m0.u107	Dear Vladimir Vasilovich! Honorable National Deputies of Ukraine! You have before you a draft law amending some of the Ukrainian laws on transparency of property relations with regard to the media. What's he up to? First of all, it is proposed to define what a connected person is and what it is to control the founders and co-founders or owners of the media. In particular, it is suggested that the owners or coowners be obliged to apply for the issuance or extension of a language license along with information about the founder as well as information about the related persons. For reasons for redesigning the licence, it is proposed that the composition of founders or owners, coowners, should be changed to allow them to possess relevant information about the composition of the founders or owners of the media. And in defining the concept, the "related person" is proposed to take into account the relevant Recommendation of the Council of Europe (number 9413). And it is suggested that we determine what a connected person is or is. legal or physical person who controls the founders or co-founders of printed media. Therefore, if the cofounder is a natural person, it is also suggested that the family members are related — husband, wife, children, parents, stepparents, stepparents, stepparents, or other loved ones with whom he exercises joint control over printed information. The project also prohibits the creation and operation of a television organization that is founded or owned by a non-resident registered in one of the offshore zones designated by the Cabinet of Ministers. Of course, this bill is designed to ensure that the public knows all the objective information about who owns or controls the media and is designed to prevent concentration in one hand by mass media.
ParlaMint-UA_2013-06-21-m0.u108	Thank you. Please report, Head of the Committee on Freedom of Speech and Information by Mikola Volodymyrovich Tomenko.
ParlaMint-UA_2013-06-21-m0.u109	Dear colleagues, the committee supports this bill. Although I must immediately say that this is an extremely reasonable and tolerant version of the beginning of serious work on demonopolization, publicity and understanding of what a mediator in Ukraine is. Unfortunately, Volodymyr Vasilovich, it is so clever that our, the MP's bill, which was three months earlier prepared, has not been put before the Supreme Council, has been put in place by the government, which is about a percentage of 30 percent of the depth, as it were, of the disclosure of information about the Ukrainian media market. So I think we need to analyze this story, but nevertheless I propose to adopt this bill in the first reading, because today the media market in Ukraine is actually a union of three, four monopolies registered in offshore areas of Ukraine. This means that, especially, I have already spoken on a number of occasions, in the case of Ukraine's transition to digital language, in the event of any dangers and challenges in Ukraine's information policy, we don't know who to deal with, who to be responsible for and who to be held accountable for. The bill takes some positive steps, particularly in the area of the output of real media owners, and it takes some steps related to antimonopoly restrictions, taking some steps to transform the National Council on Television and Broadcasting into an understanding of who the media is coming from. Because everybody's reading in the media right now that we have a new media oligarch that's also buying radio and television packs because antitrust restrictions don't work. So I suggest that we support the first reading and work actively.
ParlaMint-UA_2013-06-21-m0.u110	Thank you. Do you want to talk about it? Yes, please sign up. Freedom, National MP Melnik, please.
ParlaMint-UA_2013-06-21-m0.u111	Please pass the word to Igor Miroshnichenko.
ParlaMint-UA_2013-06-21-m0.u112	Please, Igor Miroshnichenko.
ParlaMint-UA_2013-06-21-m0.u113	Igor Miroshnichenko, the All-Ukrainian Freedom Union. Dear Ukrainian national deputies, we are very grateful to the Cabinet of Ministers for taking small steps to bring Ukraine closer to the implementation of the Ukrainian protection programme, the basic document of the All-Ukrainian Freedom Union. Because it makes it very clear that the media have to have their owners, they have to publish their owners. And Ukrainian citizens, who today, unfortunately, depend on this information space, have a very clear understanding of who is manipulating their consciousness. Of course, the government bill, as already said to the head of the profiling committee of Mikola Tomenko, is only partially, very little, but it does. sheds light on the transparency of media owners. But there is a great benefit in this too. I mean, as long as we don't publish the ultimate and real owners of the media, we don't have an objective information space. Of course, today the information space, which is controlled by several oligarchs, whose names are known to all of us in this room, but unfortunately, very little is known to the general population of Ukraine, today it creates a mine of slow action when the information space is occupied essentially by the neighbouring country and controlled partly by the authorities, it can manipulate Ukrainian consciousness, influence electoral processes, influence the situation in the country and so on. That's why we're going to vote in favour of this bill. But we have to say now clearly that we have with the publication of the owners of the media to take the next steps to demonopolize property in the media so that we don't have the soul oligarchs of the Kurchenka type buying media, which will then be controlled by today's authorities; so that other oligarchs today can't be influenced by power and form an information space. Thank you for your attention. Glory to Ukraine!
ParlaMint-UA_2013-06-21-m0.u114	The Fatherland faction, National Deputy Bondarenko.
ParlaMint-UA_2013-06-21-m0.u115	Vladimir Bondarenko, united opposition to the Fatherland, the city of Kiev. Dear friends! We are witnessing with you the transformation of our national information space from what it was at the beginning of our independence, the acquisition of our independence in the 1990s, when we spoke a little bit of truth about our history, a little bit of real life, not just warriors. And we've come to the point that today there are some shows that are covering up for Midan and the Comic Laughs and now these comedians, I'm sorry, they're sitting in my head, and no one wants to turn on the TV anymore. Yes, who does that with the Ukrainian space, where there's real life, where there's real history, where there's real culture, where it's unfortunately gone. Today, when we turn on the radio or turn on the TV, we will see movies about Paul Morozov, about real events that are not real, like those that were during the war. Now we're hearing about the Great Homeland War today, but it was the Great War, only it was the World War, and Hitler and Stalin started it, and we started it together, and we destroyed Poland in fact, and by the time the war with the Soviet Union started in Germany, about one and a half million Poles were already in concentration camps, and about as many Ukrainians were in Siberia. So let's tell the truth. And in order to tell the truth, we need that Ukrainian information space be controlled by the Ukrainians, our people, so that they don't be manipulated by the Westerners or by the representatives of the foreign states that run it today. So what we're doing today is we're opening the curtain up a little bit about who's manipulating Ukrainian consciousness today, and that's good. So this law needs to be supported, there will be a new power in Ukraine, it will bring back real historical space to Ukraine, and it will tell the truth about us, about our lives, and about our history. Thank you.
ParlaMint-UA_2013-06-21-m0.u116	Zuravsky National Deputy, Party of Regions. Please.
ParlaMint-UA_2013-06-21-m0.u117	Dear colleagues, I would like to point out that the author of the legislative initiative is the government, the Cabinet of Ministers. This bill is aimed at ensuring the publicity and publicity of the media. We really need to know about owners, owners of television companies, distribution of statutory capital particles among shareholders. The bill, and that's very good, sets a fairly clear antitrust limit. Minority representatives were speaking, they're in favour. The representatives of the majority, I hope, are also in favour. A party of regions will support this bill. It is fully in line with the Council of Europe’s recommendations on media. Thank you.
ParlaMint-UA_2013-06-21-m0.u118	The Vitalia Klitschka faction, National Deputy Heratschenko, please.
ParlaMint-UA_2013-06-21-m0.u119	Dear colleagues, it is obvious that we are discussing this important bill on the day of the journalist's party, all journalists are discussing such a very big news in the media queen that we have a new multimedia oligarch, a 27-year-old boy who buys one of Ukraine's strongest media outlets for 500 million today. Of course, it is good that such news is public. I'd very much like to hear where the young oligarchs take that kind of money in six months to make public such a large device in this medium-holding. I mean, what's the main problem today with media business in Ukraine? But it's that every schoolboy actually knows who owns the TV channel, which newspaper, but on paper, they all belong to some LTD that's registered on certain islands. And the main problem is, dear colleagues, that for no Mediaoligarch, this media business is a profile. We all know that oil, gas, and industry are the profiles. And this is really an element of propaganda and agitation, how to demonstrate loyalty to one authority or another. And so, very often, our media become, not a business, but an opportunity to demonstrate their loyalty, a political divider, and an agitation for their owners. So it's very important that our viewer, the listener, the reader, not be misled when he's watching the news on a television channel, and he knows it belongs to an oligarch. So that's how media policy is formed, and that's why the news is coming. And as my colleague Mikola Tomenko rightly said, we're going to vote in full, strike party, Vitalia Klicka faction for this law, but it's only a beginning to bring order to the media. There should be not only transparency of media property, but also full payment of taxes, there should be a normal editorial policy to be implemented. Similarly, there should be no corruption in this area when we do not know who the current Nakrad is betraying.
ParlaMint-UA_2013-06-21-m0.u120	Thank you. The discussion is over. So, pay attention, national MPs! Attention! I am voting on the draft Act (No. 2731) amending certain laws of Ukraine to ensure transparency of property relations with regard to the media for adoption as a basis. Please vote. [[12:36:20]] For 273 Against 0, held 0, did not vote 88. Decision taken. What kind of question do you have? What kind of question is that? Turn on the sandstone.
ParlaMint-UA_2013-06-21-m0.u121	Dear colleagues, Vladimir Vasilovich, I propose that we vote on shortening the deadlines for preparation for the second reading. Because it's a law, it's a European integration package. So that we can look at it as a whole in the next plenary week.
ParlaMint-UA_2013-06-21-m0.u122	There is a proposal to vote to shorten the committee's terms of reference. People please. The committee's opinion, Mikolo Volodymyrovich, is proposed to vote in general. Your opinion to the committee.
ParlaMint-UA_2013-06-21-m0.u123	Dear colleagues, well, we have real circumstances. I wouldn't overestimate this bill and not the current Nacrada composition, that everyone would think that this bill would make everything antimonopoly and honest. So there's a lot of suggestions, my colleagues' comments. I convinced the faction to vote only on the first reading. Hence, the reduced order of preparation for second reading. And we're going to clean up all the disadvantages to the government and take it to the second reading.
ParlaMint-UA_2013-06-21-m0.u124	I would like to place a reduced voting order on this bill for consideration in the second reading. Please vote. [[12:38:04]] For 267 Against - 0, held - 0, did not vote - 98. Decision taken. The factions. Ladies and gentlemen, a very important question for local authorities is being considered. Draft Act (No 2229a) amending the Ukrainian Law on the State Budget for Ukraine for 2013 (to clarify sources of debt repayment from differences in tariffs on heat, central water supply and water supply). How do we view it? Short-term procedure, please vote. [[12:39:05]] For 139 Against 60, held – 4, not voted – 151. The decision is not taken. [[B in m in s a l in]] What's that again? You're not voting! I'm asking you to sit down and work. I won't put it to a vote every time. I bet because it's a very, very important question, I'm going to put the vote through a reduced procedure. [[B in m in s a l in]] Please vote. [[12:40:19]] For-191 Against 40, held – 5, not voted – 114. Decision taken. Reported by Ukrainian national deputy Korz Pavlov Petrovich.
ParlaMint-UA_2013-06-21-m0.u125	Honorary Presidium, Bill (2229a) designed to solve the problem of debt relief from the difference in tariffs on thermal energy, central water supply and water supply. The bill does not change the total revenue of the State budget and the balance, as it only provides for the redistribution of the income of the special grant fund to pay off the debt from the difference in tariffs to thermal energy, central water supply and water supply. Subsidy funding sources have also identified revenue from the debt of the fuel and energy complex to the State Reserve Agency of Ukraine. It comes from dividends from companies in the fuel and energy complex and the residential and utility sector. Payment of energy-generating companies for State guarantees for sub-credits for the development project. Once again, the bill does not change the total revenue of the state budget. Please support Bill 2229 as a whole. Thank you.
ParlaMint-UA_2013-06-21-m0.u126	Please, Head of Budget Committee Eugene Borisovich Geller. Please.
ParlaMint-UA_2013-06-21-m0.u127	Dear Volodymira Vasilovich, distinguished national deputies and invited. On June 19, the Committee on Budget Affairs considered Bill 2229a. The bill does not change the total income of the State Budget. The Chief Scientific and Expert Office believes that an expert opinion of the government is needed to make a balanced decision on the bill. The Ministry of Finance generally supports the bill. In addition, when considering a bill on the committee, it is proposed to exclude from the text of the bill a provision amending article 11, paragraph 3, and article 21, and from the Income Change of the Special Fund of the State Budget on corporate income tax and income from the implementation of the State reserve's material values, respectively, clarifying the special fund's VAT and summary indicators. In addition, I note that the addition to the bill requires a clarification of the summary indicators to ensure consistency with the last edition of the State Budget 2013 Act and the adopted similar bill for consideration of the bill. In view of the above, the committee approved the decision to recommend to the Supreme Council the results of the first reading, to adopt the bill under number 2229a as a basis and generally as a law with the considerations and suggestions set out in the committee’s letter. Accordingly, the Committee on Budgetary Questions, together with the Chief Legal Authority of the Supreme Council, should be signed by the Head of the Supreme Council of the Bill, if adopted, should provide the necessary editorial and technical legal clarification relating to the approved committee of decisions on the bill. Thank you for your attention. Please support
ParlaMint-UA_2013-06-21-m0.u128	Do you want to talk about it? Please sign up. The Fatherland faction, Vladimir Bondarenko. Please.
ParlaMint-UA_2013-06-21-m0.u129	Vladimir Bondarenko, United Opposition of the Fatherland City of Kiev Dear friends, it would be helpful to help Ukrainian citizens get water, heating, electricity, and other utilities, but today this area is not in community-owned utilities, but most of them belong to oligarchs. In the city of Kiev, this whole area belongs to the oligarchs. That's one question. Therefore, to whom we help — citizens or those who continue to exploit what they have created today — without putting a penny of their money there, raising money from their citizens. Last year, you know, we've been watching here how 24 billion dollars were actually transferred to those who own the money, and they were taking that money out of the government budget. In this case, we're talking about the fact that we don't quite understand how much of this funding was determined through the government budget for the areas of Ukraine. We're seeing an absolute imbalance between the provision of individual areas of the Eastern region and the areas of the Central and Western region. So this bill, in our view, is not exactly in line with the principles of social justice, the actual need to support networks of energy and heat and water supply. So if Lugansk needs more support than that, we need to figure out where this money is going to go, what it's going to take, and not just offer us to count some huge sums from the state budget without decryption. Moreover, these amounts are constantly changing. They're increasing, then they're shrinking again, then they're increasing radically. There's obviously some kind of tedious work going on that we don't know about. Therefore, the faction of the united opposition of Fatherland will not support this bill until now.
ParlaMint-UA_2013-06-21-m0.u130	The Freedom faction, the Peace People's Deputy.
ParlaMint-UA_2013-06-21-m0.u131	Please pass the word to Yuri Mikhalchin.
ParlaMint-UA_2013-06-21-m0.u132	Please.
ParlaMint-UA_2013-06-21-m0.u133	Yuri Mikhalchisin, the All-Ukrainian Freedom Union, the city of Lviv. Dear Vladimir Vasilovich! Dear colleagues! In fact, the purpose of the bill is obviously noble. Although conceptually and by internal logic, it is based on the content of the bill, which we considered and rejected two weeks ago in this session hall (by a respected colleague of Martovicko). What is proposed? Indeed, and when it is said that it is necessary to provide the sources of subsidies from the State budget for local budgets to pay off debt from the difference in water tariffs, water supply, heat energy, because these tariffs are obviously different from the market value of the services provided, it is proposed to determine the amount of this subsidy in the amount of additional sources redistributed for the general public budget fund's income by 370 million dollars. At the same time, what I'm saying is that the materials that are given into the bill contain some interesting information that we're ignoring. In particular, by 2013, such a subsidy has already been approved at a level of 5 billion and 126 million dollars. In doing so, from the anticipated revenue of the State Budget special fund, which is the source of its delivery, if you believe this explanatory note, we have received a quote in January-May 2013 saying, "Three thousand bracelets," and I suggest you get to know the materials that you've been given. It should also be said that, according to a large estimate, as compensation for sources of income, it is proposed to increase the revenue of the State’s special budget fund, essentially for other programs, such as animal development. In fact, when it comes to practice, we will be witnessing that income will be virtual. After all, the sources that are defined here are part of the net revenue of state, municipal and unitary enterprises, as well as the dividends and incomes that come from shares, shares and rations in statutory capitals in which the state is present, and it is suggested that 170 million dollars be identified. However.
ParlaMint-UA_2013-06-21-m0.u134	Finish 10 seconds.
ParlaMint-UA_2013-06-21-m0.u135	There is no information in the Explanatory Note on the possible coming from the State budget, including the article "Guarantees and Payments for State Credits". I can also mark that bill.
ParlaMint-UA_2013-06-21-m0.u136	Thank you. National MP Jaroslav Suhi, faction of the Party of the Regions.
ParlaMint-UA_2013-06-21-m0.u137	Dear colleagues! In the city of Zaporozhye, housing and utilities is owned by the community. It's not the first year in this session room I've heard these conversations about some mythical oligarchs that someone wants to cash in their pockets. Please tell me, do we today have an inadequacy of the actual value of heat and utility services to tariffs? Yes, we do. Who sets the tariffs? The tariffs are set by government authorities and local authorities. There is one circumstance that I would like to pay attention to. We have 18 kilowatts of power from the nuclear power plant, we sell the population three, four times more, and we sell electricity for 98 copies. That's why the state has to intervene and put order in the hands of a monopolist, an energy monster who is ruining not only the economy today, but also housing and utilities. The other one. Let's not vote as some of the boys here with the hot eyes suggest, let's not vote, you're very much. Are the oligarchs affected? No, it's common people who will immediately experience the burden of rising tariffs for residential services, as the International Monetary Fund requires. Second, Ukraine’s State Budget will suffer. Let me remind you, in 2006, 500 000 citizens have been asked for grants from the state budget, that is two million citizens last year, that are public funds that should go to other needs and needs. Colleagues, and last but not least, it's not a new law, it's not a preference, it's not some benefit to the cursed oligarchs, it's about clarifying the sources of debt repayment. Therefore, a simple person must vote for this bill.
ParlaMint-UA_2013-06-21-m0.u138	The Strike faction, the People's Deputy Kaplin.
ParlaMint-UA_2013-06-21-m0.u139	Vitalia Klicka political party, Ukrainian National Deputy Kaplin. First. Our political power would like to make it clear to all Ukrainian citizens, which is what this bill refers to. It says that ordinary Ukrainians need to take money and give it to the oligarchs because they find it very difficult to live. The other one. Our position is fundamentally that we are against voting for this bill as a whole. This disease in the community certainly needs to be treated. But there is no need to treat this disease exclusively at the expense of ordinary Ukrainian citizens. Think about it! Azarov owes the black people 3 billion dollars. Three billion dollars! Think about it! We have $1 billion in wages. In courts for 1 billion dollars there are debts to children of war. You are all standing here honoring the memory of those who have died by a moment of silence. At the same time, you spit in the face of the children of war, which you have forbidden in the courts to draw directly from Prime Minister Azarov, because he is responsible, the money the state owes to these people. What exactly are you going to turn the lives of those citizens who suffer from your kind of socio-economic politics? Next. I'd like to focus on a particular example. In Poltava, hot water was turned off through the oligarchs. And they can't even enter the perinatal center just because the boiler doesn't work. All of Poland and all of Ukraine know who owns this infrastructure. A party of regions directly! You want to find the money, we'll show you where to find it. Your Mayor Poltava Mamay, who is a member of the Party of the Regions, bought this year to build the roads of nails and bitumen twice as expensive as that on.
ParlaMint-UA_2013-06-21-m0.u140	The Communist Party faction, Simonenko Peter Mikolayovich.
ParlaMint-UA_2013-06-21-m0.u141	Simonenko, the Communist faction. Clearly, our constituency is very much concerned today because today we are witnessing that the oligarchs, oligarchs, and utilities have also stretched out in their own interests. There are no economically sound tariffs and there is no such thing as we, by conducting Communists, the "Control, Order, Justice" action on the economic justification of tariffs, have in many cases proved that this is done by the same deputies, representatives of a powerful business in places, because they are once again robbing the people of Ukraine. How do you rule out all these negative effects? I'm going back to the Company's anti-crisis program. Only a return to government property or government control of a lie, the same utilities will rule out the possibility of using this national property to enrich a single set of people. And in conditions where no salary is paid, it's a burden for people. Thus, the faction supports this project from the point of view that it is necessary.
ParlaMint-UA_2013-06-21-m0.u142	Let me finish.
ParlaMint-UA_2013-06-21-m0.u143	The Company’s faction votes in favour, assuming that failure to vote today will necessarily lead to an increase in tariffs. And this is again from the pocket of our ordinary citizens. Thank you.
ParlaMint-UA_2013-06-21-m0.u144	The discussion is over. I'm asking the people's deputies, I'm asking the people's deputies to take their seats, I'm going to put this very important bill to the vote. I'm asking for a non-fractional one. People's MP, Muggles. Please. Wait a minute.
ParlaMint-UA_2013-06-21-m0.u145	Thank you, Vladimir Vasilovich, for the opportunity to say a few words. I want to tell my respectable colleagues, don't be confused by what they say is sacred and sinful, because this document is being awaited in the cities today. And far from all cities, utilities are private property, such as Winnitza. And the city mayors asked me to support it, because if we don't support this bill, they won't get the money and they won't be able to prepare the heat-generating enterprises for the normal fall-winter season. This is primarily to prepare for the timely launch of kindergartens, schools, and hospitals. So I ask you very much, my fellow Members, support this bill, do not interfere with politics here.
ParlaMint-UA_2013-06-21-m0.u146	They heard the opinion of a non-frustration MP. I'm betting on a draft bill (number 2229a) to amend the Ukrainian State Budget 2013 Act on clarifying the sources of debt relief from differences in tariffs on thermal energy, central water supply and water supply for adoption. Please vote. Please vote on the basis. [[12:58:17]] For 202 The decision is not taken. "For" – 202, against – 37, held – 31, did not vote – 73. The factions. There is a proposal to refer this bill to the review committee and re-read it in the session hall. Please vote. [[12:58:59]] For 207 Against – 2, held – 60, did not vote – 73. The decision is not taken. Let's move on. Ladies and gentlemen of the national parliament, please sit down! Dear National Deputies, factions leaders, I ask your attention, faction leaders have agreed to consider three decrees, three decrees. The faction leaders, once again, disagreed with you on a three - way package. A draft decree marking the 600th anniversary of the establishment of the city of Kitzman of the Cherniew region, a draft decree marking the 40th anniversary of Kerchi's appointment of the honorary name "City-Hero" and a draft decree marking the 75th anniversary of the formation of the Luhansk region. May I put it to a vote? May I? I'll bet you a draft decree on the 75th anniversary of creation. The package doesn't vote. You want me to question that? I'm all, let's do everything by the book. I'm betting on the vote on the bill of decree (number 2080a) to mark the 75th anniversary of the creation of the Luhansk Region as a basis and as a whole. Please vote. [[13:01:33]] For 236 Against - 1, held - 2, did not vote - 105. Decision taken. The factions. I'm betting on the vote of the Order (No. 2578) to mark the 40th anniversary of the award of the city of Kerch to the honorary title "City-Hero" for acceptance as a basis and as a whole. Please vote. We agreed to vote in full for all the decisions. Please vote. [[13:02:16]] For the 220. Against 3, held – 5, not voted – 109. The decision is not taken. Ladies and gentlemen, let's not question the 600th anniversary of the establishment of the city of Kitzman in the Cherniewsky region. So let's go back and make a decision about City-Hera Kerchi and make a decision about the town of Kitzman. That's why I'm betting. Please say they haven't been able to vote. Sit down and vote. I'm betting on a draft decree on the 40th anniversary of the award of the city of Kerch to the honorary title of City Hero. People's deputies, please vote. On the basis and in general. [[13:03:31]] For 240 Against – 2, held – 2, not – 92. Decision taken. The factions. And let's all take a friendly vote in favour of the draft Decree 2631 marking the 600th anniversary of the establishment of the city of Kitzman in the Cherniewsky region. I'm betting on a vote to take as a basis and as a whole. [[13:04:20]] For 274 Against - 0, held - 0, did not vote - 67. Decision taken. Please, by the factions. Ladies and gentlemen, we have agreed that we will now consider requests and then speak from all factions. Please, ask, continue.
ParlaMint-UA_2013-06-21-m0.u147	Maxim Burbak to the Attorney General of Ukraine on the cessation of bribery in the local authorities of the city of Chernivci. Vladimir Philippepka to the Prime Minister of Ukraine for the allocation of funds for the construction of an underwater pipeline in the village of Balaklia in the region of Poltava. Andrija Mishchenka to the Attorney-General of Ukraine, Minister of Internal Affairs of Ukraine, on the verification of the obstacles to law enforcement, the Dniprojnijski conduct of the official action of the community and their inaction during the threat of physical execution of Maxim Dorofiev. Mr. Mikoli Kucheruk to the Attorney General of Ukraine, Minister of Interior of Ukraine, on the legality of the use of a diploma on higher education as a member of the Kostopil Regional Council of the Plains District of Vasil Tilman. Catherine Vasuk to the Attorney General of Ukraine on the legality of the criminal offence No. 461/4688/13-k against Jaroslav Kalinić and the enforcement of the procedural legislation in the conduct of the pretrial investigation by officials of the Lviv District Attorney's Office. Olga Fight with the Attorney General of Ukraine on the verification of compliance with applicable legislation regarding the payment of arrears to employees of a limited company responsible for Hmielnick Chliboproduct. Olga Fight to Prime Minister of Ukraine, Ukrainian Defence Minister for the Prevention of Elimination or Reformation of Military Hospital A 10677 in Starocostian City of the Hmelnicka Region. Vladimir Yavorowski to the Prime Minister of Ukraine on taxation of remittances from Ukrainian employees, who are forced to seek employment abroad because of the insufficient work of the government in order to earn living and to help their families and loved ones financially. Vladimir Yavorowski to the Prime Minister of Ukraine, head of the Kyiv City State Administration, for giving concrete answers to the painful problem of the inhabitants of Troastina, building the subway. That is, what specific sources of funding are available; the list of government guarantees provided for credits; the starting and closing dates; the readiness of the final project and its copy; the amount of funds allocated and allocated in 2013 (state and local budgets). Oleg Zarubinsky to the head of the Kiev City State Administration for the timely relocation of persons living in emergency homes. Oleg Zarubinsky to the Prime Minister of Ukraine on active control of the advertising of alcoholic products on television and radio. Olega Lalashka to the Prime Minister of Ukraine, the Attorney General of Ukraine, for the release of Vladimir Homenk from office as head of the Montenegrin District Administration and for the criminalization of the abuse of office. John Stoyk to the Prime Minister of Ukraine about the allocation of funds for the reconstruction of the Hudikov Public Education School in the Borschev region of Ternopil. John Stoyk to the Prime Minister of Ukraine about the allocation of funds for the reconstruction of the Borsztow district cultural building, the central district library and the district children's library in Ternopil district. Valeria Calchenka to the Prime Minister of Ukraine on the allocation of funds for the treatment of patients with haemodialysis in the Kirovgrad district hospital. Valeria Calchenka to the Prime Minister of Ukraine on the return of land to the public pastures of the villages of Ajamka and the coastline of the Kirovograd district of Kirovograd. Anton Dorokhov to Prime Minister of Ukraine, Minister of Infrastructure of Ukraine for Capital Repair of Road T-16-02. Paul Kirilenko to the Prime Minister of Ukraine, the Attorney General of Ukraine, the Minister of Interior of Ukraine for Forced Rusification and Reduction of Schools of Ukraine in Odessa. Ruslan Solvar to the Minister of Health of Ukraine for Dissatisfaction with the MP's request "For the unsatisfactory state of implementation of the National Cancer Programme and the Concept of the State Targeted Programme of Prevention, Diagnostics and Treatment of Viral Hepatitis in the Makarska and Fastev areas of the Kyiv Region", announced at the meeting of the Supreme Council of Ukraine on 22 March 2013. Gennady Zubka to the Prime Minister of Ukraine for a review of the appeal of citizens of the city of Žitomir to resolve the situation that resulted from the unfinished construction of an object on St. George's Street, 155 in the city of Žitomir, and with the aim of regulating its separation from the State Budget of Ukraine to the municipal property management agency of the City Council of Žitomir 8.9 million dollars for the construction of a 10th floor building on the street of Cours, 155 in the city of Žitomir. Anatolia Goncharova to the Prime Minister of Ukraine for the support of educational institutions in Gorlovka Donetsk region. Sergey Moshak to Minister of Interior of Ukraine, Head of the Ukrainian Security Service on criminal inaction and violation of the rights of the Society with limited responsibility by the Uzhgrad City Council. Alexander Onishchenka to the Prime Minister of Ukraine, Head of the State Property Fund of Ukraine, Head of the State Special Liaison and Information Service of Ukraine for the Inventory of State Property of the Public Shareholders Association "Kretelekom", which did not enter the statutory capital of this association and transfer the branch of the branch of the specialized power association of the Public Shareholder Society "Kretelekom" to the municipal property of the territorial community of the city of Prejaslav-Hmelnicki. Igora Sabia to the Prime Minister of Ukraine, Head of the Supervisory Board of the Public Shareholders Association of the State Food and Grain Corporation of Ukraine, Head of the Government of the Public Shareholders Association of the State Food and Grain Corporation of Ukraine, for the provision of the text of a contract between the Public Shareholder Society of the State Food and Grain Corporation of Ukraine and the Chinese National Motor Industry Corporation. Igor Sabia to the Attorney General of Ukraine, the Head of the State Property Fund of Ukraine, the Head of the National Securities and Stock Market Commission on the verification of the legality of the restructuring and privatization of the Danube Enterprise of the Open Shareholders Association of Silgosptechnik and the gross violation of the rights of shareholders of the listed enterprise. Vasil Krawczuk to the Attorney General of Ukraine on the gross violation of labour law requirements by the management of the state-owned company Hmělnický oblovtodor. Andrija Pishnoy, Minister of Social Policy of Ukraine, on improper consideration of parliamentary appeals regarding the effective use of the Social Protection Fund. Mikoli Tomenka to the Prime Minister of Ukraine on the need to amend the Ukrainian Act on the State Budget for Ukraine 2013 and raise social standards. Mikoli Tomenka to the Prime Minister of Ukraine on the need for the speedy issuance of permits for archaeological excavations in Ukraine. Alexander Mirny to the Prime Minister of Ukraine, the Authorized President of Ukraine from the rights of the child, the Nicolaus City Head for the non-closure of the Children's House "Our Family" in the city of Nnipropetrovsk, which will lead to the removal of children who are orphans who are worthy of life and care. Igora Schwaika to the Prime Minister of Ukraine for carrying out an illegal check of the deprivation of social protection by children deprived of parental care who are kept in the children's home of the Tamara May family type. Olga Mikhailenko to the Prime Minister of Ukraine for recognition of the Herson region of the victim as a result of anomalous drought and support for agricultural producers. Jury of Derevjanka to the Cabinet of Ministers of Ukraine, Ministry of Finance of Ukraine, Ministry of Health of Ukraine, State Treasury Office of Ukraine on the non-restriction of the population by visiting brigades and ambulances. Irina Sech to the Attorney General of Ukraine on the delay in the investigation of the deliberate killing of an environmentalist, the head of the Ukrainian civil movement, "For Citizens' Right to Environmental Security", the Academy of Engineering of Ukraine, Vladimir Honcharenko. Jaroslava Dubnević to the Ministry of Regional Development, Construction and Housing of Ukraine on the Housing Programme for Military Workers Released or Retired and Designated Central Executive Authority, which will be responsible for the implementation of the Programme. Edward Gurvitz to the Attorney General of Ukraine for the review of compliance with labour law by the authorities of Odessa in the introduction of a contract contract with the directors of the public health institutions. Edward Gurvitz to the First Deputy Prime Minister of Ukraine on the inadequacy of reorganizing the educational institution "Vasilkow Professional List", located in the Basilkow region of the Kyiv region. Vladimir Pilpenka to the Prime Minister of Ukraine on the allocation of the construction costs of the boiler for the Stepania Public Education School I-II in the Velibogacha region of Poltava and on the timely preparation of the school for the heating season. Viacheslav Kirilenko to the Prime Minister of Ukraine on the need to ensure access to archival documents relating to Holodomor in 1932 - 1933 to the general public and scientists and the creation of the "Electronic Archive of the Holocaust". Groups of National Deputies (Karpuntsova, Mikhalčina, and others) A total of 4 national deputies) to the Attorney General of Ukraine regarding the legal assessment of the inaction of Odessa’s urban head, Alexia Kostuyev, who on the night of May 31 to June 1, did not take action to warn and eliminate the consequences of the natural disaster, but enjoyed the night club. Alexia Kayda to the Prime Minister of Ukraine for the allocation of funds for the construction of a water treatment station in Ternopol, a comprehensive reconstruction of the water treatment system and the reconstruction of the Ternopil pond. Oleg Osuhovski to the Prime Minister of Ukraine on the flooding of villages and farm buildings of Kostopol Kostopol County in the Plains region with rain and floodwater, and on the inaction of the Costapolis District State Administration and the District Council with the identification and removal of the causes of such flooding. Oleg Osuhovski to Prime Minister of Ukraine on the use of the funds allocated for the purchase of apartments to participants in the liquidation of the impact of the accident on CAES in 2012 in the Plain region. Mikhail Gerasimczuk to the Attorney General of Ukraine on the dissipation of funds received for the gasification of the village of Zarvanci in the Winnitsky region. Groups of National Deputies (Putilova, Klitschka, and others) A total of 47 national deputies) to the Prime Minister of Ukraine, Minister of Agriculture Policy and Food of Ukraine on urgent measures to eliminate the effects of land and air drought in 2013 in the Herson region. Groups of National Deputies (Rizanenka, Heraszczenko, Raupova) to the Attorney General of Ukraine, Minister of Internal Affairs of Ukraine, on the prevention of journalistic activity and the inaction of law enforcement authorities during the attack on a journalist in Barvary on May 25, 2013. Groups of National Deputies (Mirojnnikka, Orotyuka, Mohnika) to the Minister of Foreign Affairs of Ukraine, Minister of Internal Affairs of Ukraine for the provision of timely passports (replacement) for Ukrainian nationals to travel abroad for Ukrainian citizens who are on the consular basis of Ukrainian foreign diplomatic institutions. Groups of National Deputies (Klitzka, Kowalczuk and others) A total of 5 deputies) to the Prime Minister of Ukraine, the Attorney General of Ukraine, for violations of the rules on the construction of the city of Kyiv and illegal acts of the capital authority, which led to an emergency on the slopes of Dniper. Igory Vasjunika to the Prime Minister of Ukraine on the failure to implement the plan of action aimed at restoring the activities of the State Historical and Architectural Reserve in Lviv, within the framework of the objects included in the UNESCO World Heritage List. Sergey Matvienkov to the Attorney General of Ukraine on the inaction of law enforcement officials in criminal investigations into fraud proceedings with investors of the Financial and Credit Company Capital Services. Sergei Matvienkov and Vladimir Boyk to the Prime Minister of Ukraine foresaw in the National Budget of Ukraine the cost of building and acquiring housing for orphans and children deprived of parental care who do not have their own housing. Vladimir Bondarenko to the Prime Minister of Ukraine, the Attorney General of Ukraine, the head of the Kyiv City State Administration, the head of the Holy District Authority in Kiev, the State Administration for Failure by the Kyiv City Administration of the Kyivrada Decision of February 26, 2010, No.13/3451, "For Allocation of the Square of the Name of Vasil Stus". Alexander Shevchenka to the head of the Ukrainian State Judicial Administration for the financial provision of the translation of court hearings into regional languages. Mikoli Rudzikowski to Prime Minister of Ukraine regarding the restructuring of the Oster district hospital in the Kozeletsk district of Chernigiv region. Jacob Besbah to the head of the Zitomir District State Administration for the verification of the legality of the activities of prosecutors and the administration of the Ministry of Internal Affairs of Ukraine in the Zitomir region. Jacob Besbach to the Attorney General of Ukraine, Minister of Internal Affairs of Ukraine, for the verification of the legality of the activities of employees of the Ministry of Internal Affairs of Ukraine in the Žitomirsk Region. Oleg Tajnibok to the Attorney General of Ukraine on the commission of illegal acts that contain signs of violations of article 30 of the Constitution of Ukraine on the inviolability of housing; article 34 of the Constitution of Ukraine on the violation of the right to freedom of opinion and expression and belief; article 233 (intravention or other possession); article 234 (examination) of the Criminal Procedure Code of Ukraine and article 24 of the Information Act of Ukraine. Vladimir Boyka to the Attorney General of Ukraine on the cessation of labour rights violations by road workers who are under the subordination of "Kravtodor". Vladimir Boyka to the Prime Minister of Ukraine for the completion of the construction of a gas pipeline to the villages of Narai and Shibiuk in the Berežan district of Ternopil. Stanislava Berezkin to the Prime Minister of Ukraine on the non-admission of the closing of the public education school No. 1 in the city of Novokrainka Kirovograd. Sergei Firemarck to the Minister of Social Policy of Ukraine regarding the need to prepare proposals for the ratification of the Agreement on Social Security between Ukraine and the State of Israel, signed on 28 September 2012. Grigory of the U.S. Attorney General of Ukraine regarding the misconduct of members of the Darnicki District Police Department of the Ministry of Internal Affairs of Ukraine in Kiev. Gregory of the Cobbler to the Prime Minister of Ukraine about the preservation of the railway route "Guyvoron-Vinnica". Alexander Donya to the Minister of Culture of Ukraine regarding the failure of the Cabinet of Ministers of Ukraine since December 23, 2009, No.1600 "To approve the plan of measures to ensure the full functioning and development of the National Museum of National Architecture and the life of Ukraine". Anton Kisse to the Prime Minister of Ukraine on the extraordinary ecological situation in the city of Bolgrad and the surrounding villages of the Balgrad district of Odessa. Alexander Shevchenk to the Minister for Foreign Affairs of Ukraine, Minister of Ecology and Natural Resources of Ukraine regarding Ukraine's position on the creation of a conservation natural zone in the Ross Sea and on the East Coast of Antarctica. Roman Vanzuriak to the Human Rights Commissioner of the Supreme Council of Ukraine, the Attorney General of Ukraine, the Head of the Supreme Special Court of Ukraine on civil and criminal matters related to the cessation of violations of the law, attempts to prosecute citizens, violations of their rights and legitimate interests for actions and criticism of actions and decisions taken by the leadership of the Czernovecki Professional List. Vladimir Bondarenko to the Attorney-General of Ukraine, Head of State Geology and Nadr Ukraine for the adoption by the fifteenth session of the Poltava District Council of 28 February 2013 of a decision to grant approval to a limited-liability company Invest-Naftogazvozba (city of Kiev) for obtaining, without auctioning, a special permit for the use of nadrama, a geological study, including research and industrial development with further oil and gas production (industrial development) Tishchenkov Square in the Shishai district of Poltava. Valerija Suškević to the Head of the National Bank of Ukraine regarding the non-compliance of the public shareholders company "Daniel Commercial Bank" with obligations under the contract and contract entered into. Vladislav Atroshenka to the Attorney General of Ukraine on strengthening control over criminal investigations into the falsification of seeds and plant protection products. Vitalia Jaremi to the Attorney General of Ukraine on the use of appropriate measures of procuratorial response aimed at eliminating violations of the requirements of effective legislation and building standards during the transfer of land to the public stockholders' association "Househouse Number 4" and the limited liability society "Citi Bud Poznaki" and during the decision to amend the detailed plan of the area in the district of the thermal road, Ddolbunjska, Dragomanova, which was approved by decision of the Kyiv City Council No.71/8355 of 20 September 2012. Vitalia Jaremy and Sergia Mishchenka to the Prime Minister of Ukraine on the allocation of funds from the State budget of Ukraine to complete the necessary work to eliminate the consequences of the crash at the Bortnicka Aeration Station of the public stock company Kyivvodokal, with the aim of preventing an environmental disaster. Oksana Sold to the Minister of Revenue and Congregations of Ukraine on the issue of taking into account the negative value of the tax object for the previous periods and during the judicial proceedings. Mikhail Blawajkoh to the Minister of Revenue and Congregations of Ukraine on the verification of tax evasion and possible illegal activities affecting the State. Andrija Tabalova to the Prime Minister of Ukraine on the urgent repayment of the debt from the salary paid to the employees of the municipal enterprises and teachers of the city of Kirovgrad. Vasil Gladys to the Prime Minister of Ukraine for full-cost insurance to employees of the budgetary institutions of the region of Svetinski, Kosovo and Vrchovina. Roman Ilik to the Prime Minister of Ukraine on the underfunded state of education in the cities of Drogobic, Borislav, Truskavec and Drogobic region of Lviv. Paul Petrenko to the Attorney General of Ukraine, Minister of Internal Affairs of Ukraine, on the urgent response of law enforcement authorities to the facts of the raiding of the Prolysco sanatorium. Vassil Wooden to the Minister of Justice of Ukraine on the provision of clarification to the authorities of the local self-government of the Ternopil area on the application of the provisions of the Civil Code of Ukraine, the Ukrainian Law on Local Self-Government in Ukraine and other legal instruments in the drafting of inheritance-management contracts, particularly in lands, as hereditary property. Alexander Dobmrowski to the Prime Minister of Ukraine for the financing of the work on the restoration and rehabilitation of the monument to the architecture of the Holy Ussiknovska Ludovska Rock Monastery in the village of Ledova Mogilov-Podil Region of Winnitsk. Andrija Mishchenka to the Attorney General of Ukraine, Minister of Internal Affairs of Ukraine, Minister of Revenue and Congregations of Ukraine on the verification of non-target use, the theft of public funds by fraud, particularly large-scale officials of the private enterprise "Building Company "Quartal Plus" and the abuse of office by officials of local government authorities, the use of measures for the immediate restoration of citizens' rights and the involvement of guilty persons in the responsibility under the current legislation. Sergey Kaplin to the Cabinet of Ministers of Ukraine on the need to carry out an objective examination of the violation by the Director of the Department of Personnel Security of the Cabinet of Ministers of Ukraine of the ethical conduct of the civil servant, non-compliance with current legislation on public service, and so forth. Sergey Kaplin to the Attorney General of Ukraine on the verification of the fact that citizens have been forced by the military commissioners to write an application for refusal or consent to serve in the contractual army. Vitalia Barwinenka to the Attorney General of Ukraine, Head of the Ukrainian Security Service on the abuse of office as head of the Vinick City Department of the Ministry of Internal Affairs in the Vinny region by Colonel Yuri Kuzim of the Police. Jury Crook to the Prime Minister of Ukraine on the use of urgent measures to increase the statutory capital of the Ukrainian Danube Shipping to implement article 17 of the Ukrainian Law on the State Budget for Ukraine for 2013. Mikhail Blawajkoh to the minister of internal affairs of Ukraine regarding the inappropriate response to the parliamentary appeal. Andrija Pishno to the Prime Minister of Ukraine on the failure of the Ministry of Justice of Ukraine to implement the European Court of Human Rights decision on the payment of the corresponding amounts. Andrija Pavlovski to Prime Minister of Ukraine for the non-admission of the rights of medical personnel in carrying out pre-planned tests. Alexia Kayda to the Attorney General of Ukraine, head of the State Inspectorate of Ukraine, for work on violations of the rights of employees of the Open Shareholders Association of Ternopil and inappropriate response to violations of the law by the Prosecutor's Office of the Ternopil region. Alexander Momota to the Dnipropetrov City Head on inadequate financing for the maintenance of buildings, equipment, moving stock and in general for the execution of the technological process according to the applicable standards and regulations relating to the safety of passenger transport by the Dnipropetrov Metropolitan. Anatolia Denisenka to the Minister of Industrial Policy of Ukraine on the use of debt-paying measures for employees of the State Enterprise Malisheva. Mr. Mikoli Knieżicko to the Attorney General of Ukraine, Minister of Internal Affairs of Ukraine, Head of the Ukrainian Security Service, on the violation of the requirements of legislation for illegal detention and removal of pharmaceutical products by the Ministry of Internal Affairs of Ukraine in the Dnipropetrov region. Irina Herashchenko to the Prime Minister of Ukraine, Head of the Ukrainian Presidential Administration, Minister of Foreign Affairs of Ukraine, on the unmotivated obstruction of public organizations by the foreign authorities in carrying out the educational campaign "Street Eurouniversities". Jurya Derevjanka to the Cabinet of Ministers of Ukraine for funding from the State Budget of Ukraine for 2013 the completion of the construction of the pipeline of Supervirna Lanchin in the Ivano-Frankov region and the provision of appropriate funding in 2014. Anatolia Vitova to the Attorney General of Ukraine on the verification of the abuse of the service position of the Lviv city chief Andri Sadov and the officials of the executive committee of the Lviv City Council in connection with the deliberate failure of the decisions of the Lviv City Council, the Constitution, and the laws of Ukraine, which damaged the legitimate interests of the Lviv City Council and the interests of the territorial community of Lviv. Igora Yankiv and Igor Sabia to the Minister of Interior of Ukraine regarding the illegal seizure of municipal property in Hmelnicki, on Geologists Street, 13 and the inaction of law enforcement agencies. Taisiya Povaly to the head of the Kyiv District State Administration for the repair of the asphalt cover of the streets of Pushkin and Petropavlovska in the village of Petropavlovska Borszagivka Kyivo-Svetoshin region of Kyiv region. Mikhail Golka, head of the Ukrainian Antimonopoly Committee for the Review of Unwarranted Water Supply and Water Tariffs in the city of Kremenca Ternopil. Mikhail Golovka to the Prime Minister of Ukraine for an inappropriate response to the MP's appeal. Ruslana Marcinkov to the Prime Minister of Ukraine for the non-transmission of a specialized preschool facility for children with various physical disabilities No. 23 in Preschool No. 26 in the city of Priluka, Chernigiv district. Ruslana Marcinkov and Alexander Sic to the Prime Minister of Ukraine on the transfer of state-owned roads in Ivano-Frankivsk to the road balance of the Ukrainian Road Service and the inclusion of state budget funds for the capital repair of roads in the city of Ivano-Frankivsk and the area. Paul Petrenka to the Prime Minister of Ukraine, the Attorney-General of Ukraine, the Minister of Internal Affairs of Ukraine, on the verification of the ineffective use of state funds and property by institutions, organizations and enterprises within the sphere of administration of the Ministry of Health of Ukraine. Leonidas Hamtsa to the head of the Kyiv District State Administration for violating the requirements of applicable legislation in the location and organization of agricultural market operations in the area of the Forest of Ukraine, 1 in Kiev. Igor Yankiva to the Minister of Social Policy of Ukraine on the need for clarification on the provision of sanatorium treatment for a participant in combat and a disabled 3 group. Igora Miroshnicka to the Prime Minister of Ukraine on the verification of the situation and on the investigation of the emergency situation in connection with the accident of the roads and the targeted use of funds to repair and maintain the roadways of the city of Lebedin Sumsk and the city of Gaddach Poltaw. Viktor Butkowski to the Prime Minister of Ukraine for the non-derogation of the Marganic Specialised Mining Rescue Corps of the State Service of Ukraine from an extraordinary situation as a legal person. Andrija Mohnik to the Attorney General of Ukraine on the illegal detention and beating up of the activists of the All-U.S. Freedom Association, carried out by the colleagues of the special division "Berkut" on June 19, 2013, during the presentation of Irina Farion's book "Moving Norm: Destruction, Search, Again." Andrija Mohnik to the Minister of Internal Affairs of Ukraine on the illegal actions of a colleague of the Delhi District Department of Interior of Ukraine in Kiev, Lieutenant of the Sivoslav militia. Igora Sharov to the Prime Minister of Ukraine for information on the status of implementation of the National Target Program for the Development of the Ukrainian Village by 2015. Igora Sharov to Prime Minister of Ukraine on the need for a full implementation of the "New Energy" project with the aim of providing clean energy sources. Larissa Baiduk to the Prime Minister of Ukraine for the provision of accommodation for 76 families of military personnel released from military service to reserve or retired from 1990 to 1994. Oleg Kanovtsa to Prime Minister of Ukraine, Attorney General of Ukraine, on bringing to justice the responsibility of the Head of the State Registration Service of the Ukraine of Dmitry Vorona, who has provided unwarranted information on a parliamentary request from 4 April 2013 for the preparation of a draft decision of the Cabinet of Ministers of Ukraine "To amend the Cabinet of Ministers decision of 10 November 2010 No. 1025 on the approval of samples of forms of evidence of the state registration of acts of civil status". Groups of people’s deputies (Raupova, Dubnevich and others) A total of 4 deputies) to the head of the National Council of Ukraine on TV and radio talk about preventing the destruction of the local language system. Vasila Petyovka to the Attorney General of Ukraine on the rightfulness of the Society's implementation with limited responsibility for the "Marmaros" geological exploration work in the region of Gavrischuk in the village of Kosovska Polana Rakhiv district of Zakarpatsk. Dear people's deputies, requests, announcements, we're done. A total of 360 requests were made by Ukrainian national deputies. Let's move on to the question at the Miscellaneous. People's deputies please sign up for the speech. There's no procedure, I'm acting solely under the Rules. National Deputy Kozub, faction of the Party of the Regions. A word has been delivered to the National Deputy Alexander Kuzmuk, faction of the Party of the Regions. Handed over the national MP, Kozub. The following is ready. National MP Borita, faction of the Ukrainian Company.
ParlaMint-UA_2013-06-21-m0.u148	Dear compatriots! Colleagues! During these distressing days, the celebrations of the memory of the victims of the Great War of the Great Fatherland are fulfilled by terms, or by the second world, or by the Great Fatherland? Yes, the Soviet Union and its troops participated in the second world, decisively destroying the enemy in Mongolia, China in the Pacific in Korea, Norway, Poland, Romania, Hungary, Yugoslavia, Austria, and killing the last nail in the tomb of fascism in Berlin. And that's the main thing: participation, and that's the main merit that's been given at a great price. We had a front of 6,000 kilometers, in our allies 560 kilometers, we lost over 25 million of our people, 1 out of every 4 Ukrainians. I want to say that the governments of European countries immediately moved to London. The State Defence Committee of the Soviet Union worked for a thousand 418 days at a distance of artillery fire from the advance. So what is the war of the Great Fatherland for us? Colleagues, in the autumn of Vilnius, will consider whether Ukraine has reached European standards. I would like them to know that if it were not for the Soviet Union to not have Ukraine, the standards today would be of a normal nature, of a hair color, of an eye color, and of a skull shape. We should be grateful for this forever. There's this town of Curtkov in Ternopilsland that we didn't vote for. So I want to tell you that on July 6, 1941, the Germans came in, on July 7, they burned down all the buildings, they built a concentration camp, they did it, they shot prisoners, 3,000 700 of 26 were shot. Four thousand people of Chortkov fought in the lava of the Red Army. Four heroes of the Soviet Union on their release. For three years, Chortkov was a district center until Ternopil was rebuilt. And we'll go back to that question. I want to remind you.
ParlaMint-UA_2013-06-21-m0.u149	Thank you, Alexander Ivanovich. Have a seat, please. Alexander Ivanovich, no one can hear you. The voters can't hear you. Have a seat, please. The national MP Borita Olga, a faction of the Ukrainian Company, is invited to the presentation. Get ready for Greenwich. Goncharuk, national deputy of Goncharuk. Goncharov.
ParlaMint-UA_2013-06-21-m0.u150	Respectable citizens of Ukraine! [[B in m in s a l in]] On 11 April 2013, a draft decree on the recognition of UN-OPA by a criminal organization that had committed genocide against the Polish people of the East Cross from 1939 to 1947 was registered in the Seima Poland. Yesterday, the Senate of Poland adopted a statement on the 70th anniversary of the Volyn tragedy, in which tragic events of 1943 were described as ethnic cleansing with the signs of genocide. The Polish senators believe that such a definition of a wave crime can be justified by the fact that the events in Volíni were organized, massive and were accompanied by a particular severity by the UPA team. Most members of the Polish Parliament voted in favour of such a text. The Senate statement states that on 9 February 1943, an attack by the UPA unit on the Vollin village of Parosl began a brutal act of physical destruction of the Poles, which was carried out by the faction of the Organization of Ukrainian Nationalists. The victims of the bandits were 100,000 Poles. How many German occupiers have lost young teachers, doctors and professionals working in Western Ukraine? Who shot a Soviet soldier in the back? This crime in the light of international law is not subject to a statute of limitations. This month, U.S.A. was identified as the next head of U.P.A.'s troops. The KPI faction supports the abolition of subsidization of areas where benefits are paid to such soldiers. The seventieth anniversary of the genocide committed by the UPA-Galicina must remind once again of these tragic events of the international public that their successors in the Supreme Council continue to impose ideology, the tradition of the UPA. This ideology is an example of extreme racism, the cult of violence, the rejection of all moral principles. The tragic history of Ukraine reminds us of intimidation, pogroms, punitive action — this is an incomplete list of the methods of the bandera arsenal. And they're already starting to take it out of their graves. We remember the burning of the Soviet T-34 tank in Kiev. This tank was one of the first in November 1944 to rob and liberate our Ukrainian capital from the fascists. And now, half a century later, he took over the race????? By the hands of the bastards. And the top MPs with the headscarves, who broke Lenin's monuments, tearing up parts of the Victory Flags, insulting the veterans of the Great Homeland War, had already made it clear during their work in Parliament that it was a gathering of oilmen whose IQ was slightly above the plutonium, ready to break the fences, beat up the guards, block the rostrum. [[B in m in s a l in]] The tellers see these descendants of the impoverished palaces of the Ukrainian people satanic, wild when.
ParlaMint-UA_2013-06-21-m0.u151	Thank you. Have a seat, please. The national deputy Greenewecki, a faction of the Party of the Regions, is invited. Get Kyle ready.
ParlaMint-UA_2013-06-21-m0.u152	Dear Chairman! Honorable colleagues! Today, I would like to thank everyone who responded to my article "Administrative-territorial reform: Where the Exit", which was published in the newspaper "The Mirror of the Week." The reaction to the publication and its active discussion indicate that the topic raised is timely and timely. At the same time, we have to say something else. Of all the ideas set out in the article, there is only one focus on the idea of individual scientists to be able to introduce a new administrative system – the Autonomous Republic of Crimea and 8 countries instead of the 24 areas that exist today. Given the fact that reforms in Ukraine are usually a struggle of power with the people, it is no wonder that the idea that was expressed is seen as a ready concept and, of course, an anti-national one. At the same time, those who, in my view, deserve special attention were undetected. First. There should be no reform for reform, as is often the case with us, there should be a definite goal. In our case, that's the goal of improving spatial development, unlocking the inner potential of the region's economy, which is currently being used, ultimately, by a third. And in the end, creating new jobs, accessibility of citizens to administrative services, a new quality of life. It's different. Particular attention needs to be paid to inter-regional cooperation, cooperation between enterprises in individual regions needs to be complemented by a system of joint action in the field of scientific, technological, cultural, investment and infrastructure cooperation. Third. Administrative and territorial reform can only take place in connection with other reforms: land, budget, tax and, most importantly, wage reform. In addition, real decentralization of power, simplification of free procedures for both businesses and for ordinary citizens is needed. By the way, yesterday at a Council of Regions meeting, the President of the Council of Regions warned some ministers and committee heads about the implementation of the Decree on State Administrations of Executives. Fourth. Outside the field of vision, the towns, towns, and villages were now surrounded. One day they were forgotten, even though there was a national program aimed at their development. But, as is often the case, the program has not received adequate funding. The problem of small cities remains and becomes more acute every year. And the last. Sooner or later, in Ukraine, we're going to have to solve the administrative and territorial issues. And it will be much better if by then the public opinion of the country is finally ripe for change. In this context, I propose to begin a discussion on the draft concept of reforming local self-government and territorial governance in Ukraine, approved by the Council of the Regions. There is going to be a serious, fruitful and useful discussion with scientific backgrounds and strong arguments about the modern principles of national regional policy. Thank you for your attention.
ParlaMint-UA_2013-06-21-m0.u153	People's MP Pankevitch, faction, Freedom Union, is invited. Six minutes. The term is given by the People’s Deputy, Kyle and Sech.
ParlaMint-UA_2013-06-21-m0.u154	Respectable Society! The All-Ukrainian Freedom Union and all-aware Ukrainians with deep anxiety and fair indignation took on information about the Senate's approval of the Republic of Poland yesterday on the 70th anniversary of the Volinian events. The All-Ukrainian Union of Freedom understands the importance of strategic cooperation between Ukraine and the Republic of Poland. In recent years much has been done to establish good neighbourly relations between Ukrainian and Polish peoples. In particular, in local councils where the All-Ukrainian Freedom is represented, work is being done to improve cross-border cooperation in economic and cultural relations. The Lviv City Council unanimously decided to transfer the Polish House to long - term use to ensure the national and cultural development of the Polish minority. A monument of intelligence was discovered in Lviv, which was destroyed by the German Nazis in 1941. National MPs from the All-Ukrainian Freedom Union are actively involved in cooperation between partners, between parliaments of both States. However, yesterday’s decision in the Polish Seima does not contribute to our good neighbourly relationship. In fact, attempts to reconcile the complex issues of the historical past of both nations, where Ukrainians have never acted as aggressors or invaders, are now overturned. There can be no partnership in international relations if the right of another people is denied to have their own national dignity, their own independence and the right to fight the invaders. Regrettably, the majority of the Senate’s representatives have defiled the memory of the dead and the Poles, and the Ukrainians, with the aim of gaining a questionable political capital. The statement states that Poles want reconciliation and friendship with Ukrainians, but the text contains clear signs of xenophobia and chauvinism regarding Ukrainians. For Polish politicians., the actions of Polish politicians form a negative image of Ukraine in the world, damaging the European aspirations of Ukrainians. The Senate's decision, in which the Polish-Ukrainian conflict is defined as ethnic cleansing with the signs of genocide, does not correspond to historical truth, because genocide foresees unilateral victims and aggression. That is, Polish politicians speak only of Polish victims and do not want to notice thousands of killed Ukrainians. They mark UPA's anti-Polish actions, but they silence the killing of Ukrainians by the soldiers of the Krayov Army. The decree uses an unwarranted figure of 100,000 Polish victims, which is also a political speculation on the memory of the people who died in the conflict. Applying the term “genocide” to these events is unacceptable because it does not correspond to the legal definition adopted by the United Nations in 1948. In world history, there is no case of genocide organized by a non - State. By applying the approach of Polish politicians to the destruction of Ukrainian villages: Sagrin, Pavlovkam, the Supreme and the Dozens, if not hundreds of others, we can also qualify as ethnic cleansings with signs of genocide. Let me remind you that the author of the term "genocide" is a world-renowned lawyer named Rafael Lemkin, an example of genocide called destruction by the Polish army of the Ukrainian village of Zawadka Morochivska. The use of the term "genocide" is not acceptable from a political point of view. Because it denies the friendly relationship between Ukraine and Poland so far, it is a manipulation of the memory of the past that creates new conflicts today. We consider the artificial intensification of the discussion around the issues of the Polish-Ukrainian conflict, which had already received the political evaluation of the leaders of Ukraine and Poland in 2003, by playing on Russia's hand, where the dangerous rehabilitation of Stalinism takes place. Talks about genocide on the Wall, among other things, aim to hinder the spread of the truth about the Holocaust as a genocide that will be the life of millions of Ukrainians tomorrow. The 80th anniversary of these events is celebrated this year. We urge the Ukrainian society to evaluate the anti - Ukrainian actions that are taking place outside our country today, as well as the actions of the Fifth Column, which today is the ruling regime in Ukraine, which has no national interests at all. We also urge proper respect for the memory of the Ukrainians who died from various occupation regimes, including the Polish regime. In particular, those Ukrainians who died as a result of the actions of the Krayova Army, the battalions of Chlops, are called upon to commemorate the anniversary of the tragic events associated with the deportation of Ukrainians from their ethnic lands, which began in 1944. Next year we celebrate the 70th anniversary of these events. The destruction of Ukrainian villages in the Netherlands, , Lemkishte during the years 1944-1945. We propose that the Supreme Council of Ukraine approve the Law on the Status of Deported Ukrainians. To hold parliamentary hearings from this problem back in 2013, in the fall of 20-13. The Polish side is urged to move from mutual apologies to a constructive dialogue and to focus on marking dates and events when Ukrainians and Poles helped one another in defending their common interests. Glory to Ukraine!
ParlaMint-UA_2013-06-21-m0.u155	Zuravsky National Deputy, faction of the Party of the Regions. Prepare the National Deputy Sameilenka.
ParlaMint-UA_2013-06-21-m0.u156	Dear colleagues, I am a major, except for the adoption of drafts, it is my duty, as it were, to take care of the district that entrusted me with his interests in the higher legislative body of the state. On July 27, 2011, as a result of a fire caused by a thunderstorm in the picturesque village of Nova Voruba, in the district of Malin, there was considerable damage. The order of the head of the Malin district government (since 30 August 2011) suspended the teaching work. According to the Order of the Cabinet of Ministers of Ukraine (from 21 March 2012) (No. 177) 3 million 268 thousand dollars have been allocated for the rehabilitation of the educational institution. As reported by the Malin district government by the end of 2012, work had been done on this whole sum. Yet, only one and a half million have been paid. Another 2 million dollars have been made for today. In addition, previous calculations indicate that 600,000 dollars are needed to complete construction work. I just visited this village, and there are beautiful people living there. They supplicated them for help. In view of the uncertainty about the payment to the Elitbud-1 company of April 22, this year, construction work has been suspended. The situation that has arisen has created some social tension among the community, because stopping work will not allow the educational process to start as of September 1, 2013. What, in turn, would make it impossible to optimize the school network, including a small-scale school in the village of Budo-Vorobí, and their students and the teaching team would be transferred to the Novorobsk School. In accordance with article 16 of the Ukrainian Law on the Status of the People's Deputy of Ukraine, I ask the Prime Minister, Mr. Mikol Janović, to take appropriate measures to address the issue of financing the object and to re-establish the school in the village of Nova Voroby at the right time. And to inform me of the results in the time-limit laid down by law. I believe you'll help. Thank you.
ParlaMint-UA_2013-06-21-m0.u157	Thank you. The national deputy Samoylenko, a faction of the Ukrainian Company, is invited to speak. Prepare the People's Deputy Killinkarov. Samilenko instead of Kudri.
ParlaMint-UA_2013-06-21-m0.u158	Dear voters, at the level of the State today there has been a dangerous situation in the supply of water to the rural population. Only a quarter of the population use such services, and only 9 percent use sanitation. This archival issue is also painful for the inhabitants of the Gitomir region, especially for the Brusil region, which was created by decision of the Supreme Council in 1990, in connection with the relocation of the victims of the accident to CHAES. For these people, nearly 3,000 homes, 10 schools, 8 kindergartens, hospitals, clubs, and other administrative and social facilities were built. All of this was provided by centralized water supply, and the water supply reached nearly 200 kilometers [200 km]. Today, as in Ukraine as a whole, he is in a disgruntled state. All the responsibility for the clear operation of these water networks was taken over by Uksulcomongosp at the time, and at the level of the Olecommunospa area. During the years of so - called independence, all of this was destroyed, looted, and abandoned to self - survival. Water supplies were transferred to the shoulders of rural councils. These, in turn, began to create rural utilities to do anything about it. It was hoped that the circuit and district council would help in these beginnings, but that did not happen. So the village council comes out subsidized, and at the district level, maintenance and development costs are not planned. Instead, here we have a district residential office with licensing requirements, a permit for social water use. And all of this is a lot of money, especially from fines. Where are they taking them? Nobody cares. Nor is there any interest in attending the services of Northgeology, Ecology, Vodgosp to obtain appropriate signed documents. And if you add taxes here, the timeless pay for electricity, the willful disconnection from energy carriers, then the people's pay service is insurmountable. And there's no one here to protect you. Everyone sneezes at each other. They are distributed with the hands of the agricultural administration and the appropriate ministry. Meanwhile, rural utilities have stopped their work. Only Morozowski in this area, who is alarmed, asks the state for at least 60-70,000 dollars for the restoration of the worn-out platoon. But these requests are futile. Because in the last two years, the state has not allocated any money to support rural water networks. I believe that these actions are anti-national, which will soon leave the Chernobyl population without water. The Ministry of Agriculture, along with the Cabinet of Ministers, and I ask you to consider this a request, this problem needs to be solved without a reason. Thank you for your attention.
ParlaMint-UA_2013-06-21-m0.u159	Thank you. Have a seat, please. People's deputy Killinkar's faction of the Company of Ukraine, to prepare Mikhalchin.
ParlaMint-UA_2013-06-21-m0.u160	Dear Igor Juryevich, distinguished members of the people! [[B in m in s a l in]] The problems of providing solid domestic fuel to concessional categories of citizens, in accordance with articles 43 and 48 of the Mining Law of Ukraine, remain the most pressing social problems of the mining regions of Ukraine over the past 20 years. The failure to address these issues in an integrated manner at the State level leads to increased social and political tensions in the regions. Thus, the quality of coal imported remains a serious problem for existing government coal mines supplying their carbon recipients under article 43 of the Mining Law of Ukraine. The document regulating the quality of domestic fuel is a single national standard of Ukraine. It is not enough that the regulations are laid down in this document that are not observed by every GP, which is causing serious complaints, that there is still absolutely inexplicable, from the point of view of a normal person, things. Thus, the Donbass-Anthracite Group, in order not to break its head over the improvement of the quality of solid domestic fuel, set out to legitimize its reduction. They developed their own T.U.s, agreed the T.U. data with the Department of Coal Industry and, for some reason, with the Lugano Regional Sanipedist. These conditions of the local spill were approved by Mr. Popovic, First Minister of Energy of the Coal Industry. Document expiration: 19.12.2012 to 19.07.2017. This document legitimized the reduction in the quality of coal released. The Donbassugol Alliance, which provides coal structures for Donbass-Anthracit GP recipients with solid domestic fuel, is the only one with the situation at hand. The income from the household coal trade is stable, the money in improving coal quality should not be invested. The situation in question is a significant violation of the rights of carbon recipients, and I therefore request that my statement be considered a parliamentary request to the Office of the Attorney-General of Ukraine. The most acute problem is the supply of solid domestic fuels to coal miners whose mines are being transferred to the level of destroyed mines. I want to end my statement on the egregious facts of the coal surplus, when hundreds of thousands of tons of coal deposits in the coal mines of the enrichment plants, debt recovery issues over the past years are never resolved. Written off as overheated coal, 200,000 tons of coal could easily cover debts in recent years in front of miners, veterans in the same Lugansk region — 120,000 tons. In the same Donetsk region, there are 180,000 tons. On the basis of the foregoing, it can be concluded that a clear State programme for the provision of solid housing.
ParlaMint-UA_2013-06-21-m0.u161	National MP Mikhalchisin, Freedom faction, gives the floor to the National Deputy to Osuhovski. To prepare for the People's Deputy of Cherniakov.
ParlaMint-UA_2013-06-21-m0.u162	Mr. Head and Mr. Deputies! Brothers and sisters in Ukraine! Today, everyone knows very well that in Ukraine, the criminal oligarchy clan of the present power is in charge. A party of regions has been in power for three years, and where are improvements in life today? They began with political repression, criminal persecution of Ukrainian patriots, Ukrainian journalists, and ordinary Ukrainians. They started with shameful reforms. The pension reform led every Ukrainian pensioner to poverty. The tax code completely destroyed small and medium businesses in Ukraine. In particular, as an example, I want to bring to the Smigatorf region of Ravenna, where the raiders' admiration for the state-owned enterprise, the profitable one, where there were 3 million dollars a month ago at the expense of the enterprise, is now zero. The company is bankrupt, and the viewers are now firing workers and intimidating workers. The same thing with the Levar Equine factory, the same thing with the radio plant of the Equinox, the tire repair plant. They cut everything into scrap metal. Similarly now, medical reform, which closes in the province of Ravenna, three TB hospitals, is closing down the mass of rural hospitals. In particular, in the village of Borowov, the area is occupied by 5,000 hospitals. And people protest, there's no concession. People in the nearest hospital are more than 50 kilometers away. A party of regions, along with their Communist satellites, now wants to put every Ukrainian on his knees. But the real Ukrainians never stood on their knees and always won! And we will have our Ukrainian President, our Ukrainian power! Let’s do the illustration! And all these villains will be accountable to the Ukrainian law and to the Ukrainian people! Glory to Ukraine!
ParlaMint-UA_2013-06-21-m0.u163	The national MP of Cherniaków is invited to the presentation, the Freedom faction is the last speaker. People's MP, Kyde.
ParlaMint-UA_2013-06-21-m0.u164	Thank you. Ladies and gentlemen, our constituencies, unfortunately, have to observe an empty session hall when they are present: one MP, two deputies from the Party of Regions and the entire faction of the All-Ukrainian Freedom Union. More than that, I think no one is interested in the questions, the questions that are now extremely relevant. And I'll probably start with one of the main issues that should be addressed in the sessions of the Supreme Council. This should be a program of government action, for according to the Ukrainian Law on the Rules, which clearly states that, within a month of its approval, the government submits its programme of action for approval and for consideration by the Supreme Council of Ukraine. Because the country needs to know not only the MPs, but the whole country needs to know where we're going, what course we're going, and what steps we're going to take to expect average citizens, entrepreneurs, and the whole Ukrainian nation, instead, there's no program. I went to the Attorney General's Office with a parliamentary request to investigate violations of the law. And unfortunately, the Attorney General's Office has written down my appeal to the government. So we have this vicious circle when I'm complaining about the government and the Attorney General's Office is sending the government to look into a parliamentary petition for a violation by the government of actual legislation. I think in that case not only does the government have to resign for violating current legislation, but the Attorney-General, probably including this trend of such a write-off to the MPs, to the MP's questions, it's becoming traditional. And it's not uncommon when in some government institution, when you get a parliamentary request or a request for the signature of MPs from opposition parties, it's just that these appeals go into the trash. They don't answer. A specific example. Ternopil region. As of January-month, I have been directed by the MPs to the head of the Ternopil regime, and he is the head of the Ternopil regional party organization, as well as the head of the district administration, the head of the Regional Party, still has no answer to the questions that I have been asking to make it impossible for the land sink not only in the Ternopil region, but generally in Ukraine. Unfortunately, there is no answer. The same similar questions arise on many parliamentary questions and appeals. And I think we need to take one day to look at, actually, the questions and questions that the national MPs received, without getting concrete action. And with the Attorney General's involvement in this.
ParlaMint-UA_2013-06-21-m0.u165	Ladies and gentlemen, we've finished our performances at the Vulnerable. I remind you that next week the national MPs are working with the electorate. The plenary meeting will be held on Tuesday, July 2nd, at 10 a.m. The morning session of the Supreme Council of Ukraine is closed.
