ParlaMint-UA_2013-05-14-m0.u1	Good morning, distinguished national deputies, invited and guests of the Supreme Council. People's deputies, please prepare for registration. Turn on the "Race" system. [[10:02:25]] There were 378 national deputies registered in the hall, so the morning session of the Supreme Council of Ukraine declared open. Today is the birthday of the national deputy of the Ukraine of Melnik Eugeni Ivanovich. Let's say hello to him on his birthday. [[Applause]] And, as always, an announcement. Pursuant to article 60, prime. I report to the Supreme Council of Ukraine on the creation of the Seventh Interfractional Union for the Development of Local Self-Government in the Supreme Council of Ukraine. This really is a very important question. And the head of the interfractional MPs' association "For the Development of Local Self-Government" was elected the national deputy of Ukraine Kartashov Eugène Grigorovovich. Pursuant to article 60, prime. I report to the Supreme Council of Ukraine on the establishment in the Supreme Council of Ukraine of the seventh vocation of a parliamentary association with cooperation with African, Asian, Latin American countries and their economic unions. The National Deputy of Ukraine, Sergey Rafailovich, was elected head of this constituency. Pursuant to article 60, prime. I report to the Supreme Council of Ukraine on the creation of the Seventh Interfractional Dnipro Interfractional Union in the Supreme Council of Ukraine. The leader was the national deputy of Ukraine, Sapovalova Jurija Anatoliyovich. In accordance with article 25 of the Rules, we have 30 minutes Tuesday for statements by authorized members of the MPs with proposals, announcements, statements, and messages. Therefore, I ask the factions to sign up for the performance. The word is given to Simonek Petr Mikolaiovich, a faction of the Ukrainian Company.
ParlaMint-UA_2013-05-14-m0.u2	Respectable voters, respected citizens of Ukraine and colleagues! [[B in m in s a l in]] The Company's faction draws attention to the irresponsible attitude of the authorities of the oligarchic capital to remedy the consequences of the tragic accident at the coal thermal power plant. It's been a month and a half since that day. What has been done by the Government and local authorities during this time? What measures have been taken to deal with the consequences of the accident, including employment, and the social support of station workers? And I'll remind you that it's not much, not much, not much, half the inhabitants of the 12th-thousand Light Lord. How does that affect miners, their salaries, their families? Because in 2012 alone, the needs of the CES were 2.6 million tons of coal. Now what? When did more than 3.5 million coal, unrealized energy coal, already accumulate in the warehouses? What has been done to ensure environmental security? What are the conclusions on the future of the energy sector, which means the future of the economy, the future of Ukraine as a whole? Dear colleagues! I would like to draw your attention to the fact that CO2 is 30 percent of Donbass' energy potential! There are questions. There are no reasonable and honest answers from the authorities. The accident at the Hungarian TEC is a legitimate result of the unfortunate exploitation of this industrial and scientific potential, which has been gained by the current power vested in the Soviet and Soviet authorities. In all the years of independence, there has been no reconstruction of the Bulgarian TEC, and the value of the core funds of all Ukrainian TECs is estimated at 80 per cent by specialists. From the outset, the company invited the Government to consider and adopt our energy security programme, a programme that would allow the fullest and most efficient use of available natural resources rather than transfer gold reserves to pay for expensive, imported gas. Of course, our energy security programme offers development, particularly of the coal industry, of domestic energy, including alternative energy. I certainly hope that you will understand, Your Honor. Light and warmth in homes, schools, hospitals are needed by people today, not promises that give oligarchs to the left and right. Today, industrial enterprises must operate, aircraft must fly, and trains must walk. The priority of our energy security programme is to modernize all available traditional energy capacities, including thermal power plants. They say there's no money in the budget. And for the affairs of the National Investment Agency, for the affairs of the Ing Terminal, for the air express, for the construction of Technopolis, for the solar Chernobyl, it turns out there is. What is really lacking in bourgeois power is the political will to resolve matters for the common people. The policy of the oligarchic authorities is based solely on enrichment by disrupting the budget and social genocide of the population. Ukraine is going into an economic collapse and a humanitarian disaster, which is obvious today. And it is the responsibility of all bourgeois parties, irrespective of colour, their flags and the names of the leaders, without exception. For example, in the last three quarters, GDP fell more than 5 per cent. Industrial production is falling rapidly. In January this is suitable – minus 3 per cent, in February and March – another minus 6 per cent and respectively – 5.2 per cent. And that's not surprising. Throughout its work, the Government has never been able to submit to the Supreme Council, as envisaged by the Cabinet of Ministers Act, a programme of its activities. Instead, Kabmin, accompanied by advertising noise, adopted the so-called Programme for the Revitalization of Economic Development for 2013-2014, the essence of which is the continuation of anti-national and anti-social reforms: pension, medical, judicial, administrative, preparation of new ones: the Housing and Labour Code, in fact, which alleges non-resistance in Ukraine, reforms that bring about corruption privatization and re-entry into public policy. We Communists are categorically opposed to such reforms and policies. In this regard, we need to return to the issue of abolishing existing pension and medical reforms. We call on all the political forces that are fighting for their abolition to prove it. We call for the adoption of the Slave Housing and Labour Codes. The Company's faction also invites the people's deputies to support, on second reading as a whole, our bill to introduce a 0.5 per cent per day salary for employers. Today, it turns out that three skins can be jerked off by a worker when he fails to pay his rent and the same housing and utility services, when he fails to repay his loan in a bank on time, he is deprived of his apartment or property and when he is not paid his salary, the oligarch is said to have no responsibility to the people and to the State. The Company's faction therefore proposes to make such decisions. Today it is clear that the people of Ukraine have been suspended from participating in the administration of the country and have been removed from power by large capital. Our task is to bring Ukraine back to the people of Ukraine so that the most important issues that affect the lives of millions of people will be addressed by the people's direct will through referendums. The Company's faction appeals to everyone, let's hold a referendum on Ukraine's accession to the Customs Union and so on.
ParlaMint-UA_2013-05-14-m0.u3	Let me finish.
ParlaMint-UA_2013-05-14-m0.u4	By holding a referendum on Ukraine's accession to the Customs Union, we will thus open locks for the real economy and support the Ukrainian producer. Thank you.
ParlaMint-UA_2013-05-14-m0.u5	Dear national MPs, we are looking forward to a serious and troublesome legislative activity today. And everyone should be aware that we have a busy schedule of work. What causes attention to be collected and concentrated. On the other hand, I would like to draw your attention, honourable deputies, honourable colleagues, to the issue of organization, and more specifically, to the organization and observance of discipline during plenary meetings. We're not at the rally, we're in the higher legislature of the state. And my aspirations have been deprived of any mentoring instruction. But I want to remind you of some of the provisions of the laws that should govern the Ukrainian national MPs in their activities. Article 8 of the Ukrainian Law "On the Status of the People's Deputy" states: "In its activities, the Ukrainian People's Deputy should adhere to popular moral standards. Always maintain your dignity. Respect the honor and dignity of all other Ukrainian national deputies. To refrain from actions, statements and actions that compromise him, the electorate, the Supreme Council of Ukraine and the whole state." No, there's no parliament where MPs don't hear each other. The problem of discipline and ethics in plenary meetings is also fully addressed in chapter 9 of the Supreme Council of Ukraine Rules. Unfortunately, though, it should be noted that parliamentary wakes are still often densely filled with unproductive wastes of time, for, to put it mildly, not ethically, noisy explanations of not so much truth, but rather the creation of pyari causes for populist self - pronouncements. Finally, the oppression of the deciduous background in the session room does not create a working atmosphere, nor does it give a positive picture of the seventh parliament. I had an official appointment to make plans during the meetings. Now, that's what we're going to do today. We can't work in this situation in the hall. In fact, the question of form changes the concept of substance. Time coincides with finding the secondary, and the original remains in line. However, everything must be the other way around. I hope that my colleagues will listen to my wishes and that we will have a peaceful and productive job, at least that is what our voters expect of us. I'll be back tomorrow to talk to the faction leaders. We will meet tomorrow, we must hear one thing, we must work and keep our promises to our voters. Please! From the Party of Regions, who's speaking? Zarubinsky National MP, please.
ParlaMint-UA_2013-05-14-m0.u6	Respectable compatriots! Dear colleagues! This year, the first half of May gave us a series of special and outstanding calendar days. Yes, these famous days are festivals of different coordinates, different eras, and they even come from different continents. But for Ukrainian citizens, in any case for the vast majority of our countrymen, they have become, if not sacral, at least their own. Understandably, when workers announced an eight-hour strike in New York, Philadelphia, and Chicago on May 1, 1886, they hardly expected this day to be celebrated in different formats, but celebrated in 142 countries around the world. Thus, time and history gradually cleanse him of propaganda images accumulated over the years. For many, however, this day remains a personification of good and justice, of respect for people who produce material and spiritual benefits. The earliest Christian festival of Easter in honor of the resurrection in Jerusalem of Jesus Christ symbolizes the victory of light over darkness, good over evil. And it's a celebration of the global renewal and renewal of the world. 68 years ago in May, Nazism and Fascism were defeated by the joint efforts of the Anti-Hitler Coalition, and our parents and grandparents played an undeniably crucial role in winning this duel. And it was a real victory, conquered by blood, and then, millions of lives, human suffering, and courage. And it was a real struggle, because whatever the complexity of the historical processes, the historical events, but the question stood at hand, because the possible alternative to victory over Nazism and fascism was only one, is the domination of Nazism and fascism on our planet, with all its devastating consequences for humanity. It is sad and sad if someone regrets such an alternative. The Day of Victory over Hitler's Germany and its allies is also the day when man-hating attempts to share ethnically with nations and nations have been put to the fore and secondary. And in his struggle, the Ukrainian people proved that he would never agree to treat the secondary. And so Victory Day was a holiday for our parents, Victory Day is a holiday for us, and Victory Day will be a holiday for our offspring. And that's how it's gonna be! [[Applause]] Well, the deeply humanistic essence of Mother's Day is undeniable. And so the moral-psychological, spiritual, state-owned potential of these holidays we have not only to understand, but also to use for historical progress, to modernize our state, to shape a new quality of politics. And this one is desirable and needs a new quality just requires, at least, to give up a few things. First of all, from the constant orientation of the way things work, to the detriment of the content of the action. The form cannot always dominate the content. Yes, content is hard, it's exhausting, it's not ecumenical, because the content is work, it's real and systematic effort. However, fictitiousness, delusions, theatrical performances, and chronic shouting will never be able to replace meaningful work. Second, to finally give up the overwhelming belief that someone has a monopoly on truth, because it's not just absurd, but it's a huge shame, because it's well known to hurt easily, help hard. Thirdly, give up everyday orientation, and therefore work for ratings. Ratings are past, but the time spent chasing ratings with the help of man - made populism, the promotion of hatred, and the provocation of aggression is no one’s return. The next, under the influence of the political battalions, is such an extremely subtle and positive word, "constructive, constructive, constructive" in part, but there is only one opposite in constructiveism: it is destruction and destruction. So the fourth is to give up destructive, as sometimes conjuncturally convenient, but harmful behavior. And finally. In its time, Winston Churchill, what any wise person can develop, is capable of developing a plan of victory in war if it doesn't fit its implementation, so it's the practical responsibility of everyone in the fight for the values of justice and humanity. And then all of us, understanding and realizing whether we can form our own responsibilities, and the main thing is to carry out the constructive order of the day for our nation.
ParlaMint-UA_2013-05-14-m0.u7	It's Vitaly Call's Faction. Who? National MP Mathios, please.
ParlaMint-UA_2013-05-14-m0.u8	Maria Mathios, Vitaly Call's Faction. Dear Volodymyr Vasilovich, dear colleagues! I want to talk about one aspect of our social life -- this year's May 9 celebration in Ukraine, and especially where Ukrainian politicians were chief war veterans -- reminded me of the unwise manipulation of my student youth. To obtain medical advice, where we were freed from school, we deliberately increased the temperature of the body by rubbing the body with mustard or red pepper. I don't know what kind of feather some of our colleagues were wearing, but the fact that we managed to raise the social temperature in the same place on the first hand doesn't call anyone into question. I don't know why this is done except for provocation and avoiding responsibility for socio-economic, criminogenic and other situations in the country. But increasing the rating of any party isn't worth the trouble in the country, the peace is moving on all sides. Politicians who do not understand how they play madmen, who do not understand the dangers of such things, are irresponsible. I would like to ask: What is such a high goal that governs those who make politics based on the principle of political selfishness? Why do we verbally struggle to speak more succinctly about either the East of Ukraine or to demean Ukraine’s west in those days of remembering and recalling those who did conquer Nazism? Why do we not want to make such Ukrainian policies as would be supported by Ukraine from Putivl to Carpathians, not necessarily by hitting the livers themselves and those living in Putivla and those breathing at dusk? Any war ends when they bury the last soldier. Have we counted all the dead? Have we found anywhere near the burial sites of 37 percent of the former Kufiayan frontists, even though in my native Cherniewsky region, who are considered missing without news? If we have leftovers of conscience to encourage in the parades of 86-year-old veterans with Stalin's portraits, if we haven't counted so far, and how many of them, 80-year-old real frontists, are still in Ukraine, we live in a domestic, permanent, multi-civil state. If we have the courage to block the road for those who are already on the dream tomorrow, and we are in Parliament, and we have not condemned totalitarianism and its ideologies, as all of today's Europe has done, we are heartless citizens and irresponsible politicians. Colleagues, all talk of reconciliation, handing each other over, and such theatricality will no longer be worth eating an egg, because for a year or two or so, it will not be politics, but cemeteries. But as legislators, we are able to make the years of these former frontists more comfortable. I don't think the state is going to be defulted if we're actually war veterans, not those who have adapted to them with SMERSHA or with contractors, we're going to make exceptional pensions, as the legislator did for state officials with exceptional pensions. I think veterans of the world war from 1939 to 1950 in Ukraine are much less than those officials with special merit without real merit. Let us live in a poor and peaceful life for those who fought on all the Ukrainian, Belarusian fronts and fought for Ukraine today in the ranks of the UPA. And let's leave social destruction and confrontation to the past. Each of them loved Ukraine in his own way, as he could during the time of the world war. Confrontation will never unite Ukraine more than it has ever been fueled by hatred and strife. This does not mean that politicians should not be hard on fundamental issues, but politicians have no right to be stupid when it comes to solving the real, not the phantom, problems of society when it comes to the country’s independence. And it's because Ukraine is more dependent than ever on its independence, which has been seriously threatened, that Vitalia Klicka faction believes that it is time for Parliamentary politicians to give up the constant public harassment of history and the trial of it. And it's time to move on to real national agreement with society's efforts. There is a demand for civil peace in society, and society clearly supports such a position by the Vital Klick Party, which has demonstrated convincingly the past parliamentary elections. "SHOOT" proposes to abandon the oppression of political psychosis on historical subjects and the humiliating division of people into winners and conquerors. We are the law-abiding citizens of Ukraine who have made a living contribution to victory over Nazism and the name of this victory -- millions and millions of Ukrainian lives on both sides of the barricade. That's why the Vitalia Klitschka faction proposes to each parliamentary faction and non-party MPs to identify themselves with conscious parliamentarians from every political power to sit at the negotiating table and discuss the political and legal document on the principles of national agreement developed by the "BACK". We don't suggest that we tape mouth policies with a skateboard when it comes to history. We suggest that we consider adopting a document that would allow Ukraine to respond adequately to the challenges of time rather than time.
ParlaMint-UA_2013-05-14-m0.u9	Please finish.
ParlaMint-UA_2013-05-14-m0.u10	If we really think a little bit about Ukraine's future, we just have to have this political and legal orientation to achieve national goals and to solve the extremely complex socio-economic and political legal problems that the chauffeur is pulling from our totalitarian past. It is no longer the power to witness the Ukrainian political earthquake when historic politicians hold the hands of the dead by the throat of the living. The adoption of the document that was developed by the Faction Impact will mean that we, as parliamentarians at the legislative level, will introduce moratoriums in the walls of Parliament to find the right and guilty in historical victories and defeats, and we will give this problem to scientists, historians and artists. At the same time, Impact suggests that responsible politicians make certain socio-economic commitments by making mutual concessions. Thank you.
ParlaMint-UA_2013-05-14-m0.u11	Freedom Union, National MP Alexander Sich. Please.
ParlaMint-UA_2013-05-14-m0.u12	Alexander Sich, the All-Ukrainian Freedom Union, the city of Ivano-Frankivsk. Dear Mr. Head! First of all, with respect to you.
ParlaMint-UA_2013-05-14-m0.u13	One minute. Wait a minute, stop, please. I'm asking for a party of regions. Please show me an example. Listen to what the MP says. Please! I beg you, your faction. Let's hear it! Please. Please.
ParlaMint-UA_2013-05-14-m0.u14	Dear Mr. Head, with respect to you. But in response to your comments on our protests against the use of non-State language in Parliament, I want to ask in the same tone, and in what state did you see the use of non-State language in Parliament? Perhaps the German Parliament speaks French, or the French Parliament speaks English, or the Italian Parliament speaks Chinese? If you have no self - respect and no dignity, have respect for the dignity of our nation. But I wanted to tell you something else. On April 26, the current regime demonstrated its true nature by announcing a bill to the Ukrainian Parliament to amend some of the Ukrainian legislative acts aimed at reforming the national stockholder company Naftogaz Ukraine (registration No. 2937). The project envisions a wide range of methods for the transmission of the Ukrainian gas transport system to Russia, ranging from rent to free privatisation. The All-Ukrainian "Freedom" union considers such a step as the intention to betray Ukraine's national interests. And he believes that sooner or later, but the time of today’s anti-government vacchanal will pass, and everyone who votes in favour of such a bill will stand before the Ukrainian court. In principle, the All-Ukrainian Freedom Association believes that in no way can the Ukrainian gas transport system be passed on completely or in part to another state. And instead of concessions and surrendering our national public interests, it is necessary to establish a strict dependence on gas transit prices in Ukraine's territory on the holiday prices that exist today on gas for Ukraine. Also include all instruments of Ukrainian diplomacy to unite all states that are transitors of Russian gas in the fight against the monopoly of Russia's Gazprom. I think it's clear that the experience of the sad-known Kharkiv Treaties should have taught you. Just three years ago, with a cynical violation of article 17 of the Constitution of Ukraine, the valid Rules, you betrayed Ukraine’s national interests by continuing the establishment of the Russian Black Sea fleet until 2042. At the same time, Ukraine today does not receive the right billions of dollars for the rent it is supposed to be today. What is more, the Russian fleet today is insolent in its territory. There is no lease agreement. Contrary to the courts, Ukrainian lighthouses are seized, and the Ukrainian sea’s waterfront is polluted and so on. Today, every soldier of the Russian Black Sea fleet is allowing himself to decompose that he will remain in the territory of Ukraine, despite any position of the Ukrainian government. What's more, about you, the Party of Regions, your masters wipe their feet. Yes, you obviously do, for there can never be another attitude toward servants and slaves. In addition, the All-Ukrainian Union "Freedom" is fundamentally opposed to today's daily review of Bills on the so-called "Foreveral Reform" No. 2846, No. 2847, No. 2845. All of us are well aware that the innovations that these bills introduce are actually aimed at destroying the Ukrainian budgetary system, and in particular at violating principles such as budgeting are made solely in monetary form, should be the equivalent of the amount of revenue spent and the collection of budgetary commitments should be carried out only within the framework of planned assignments. For 20 years, Ukraine has worked hard, building a brick - after - brick system. There are many present who have made a constructive effort to do so. Instead, today they are forced to serve the current regime, fully aware that bills can be placed in institutions that are controlled by families and given the opportunity to make money with a discount of between 50 and 70 percent. Clearly, this will primarily strike exporters and those who work on government orders. So they will have to raise prices just as much as the family will steal. Ladies and gentlemen, I would like to point out that all the facts that I have cited bear witness to the fact that the current regime has purposefully and persistently undermined the financial basis of Ukrainian independence. Today's current regime is not like the leadership of the Ukrainian state, it's like that of a bunch of marauders, marauders and robbers who are just busy thinking about how, where and what to steal from the Ukrainian people and give to the world as many as they are for nothing. We came here today to keep it from happening. And ready for parliamentary.
ParlaMint-UA_2013-05-14-m0.u15	Let me finish.
ParlaMint-UA_2013-05-14-m0.u16	We, the All-Ukrainian Freedom Union, declare that we have come to the Ukrainian Parliament for both parliamentary and, if necessary, parliamentary methods to protect Ukrainian independence, which has been so difficult for several hundred-year-olds to fight for Ukraine's state independence. Glory to Ukraine!
ParlaMint-UA_2013-05-14-m0.u17	The Fatherland faction, who's speaking? National MP Arsenius Yatzenuk, please.
ParlaMint-UA_2013-05-14-m0.u18	Dear Members of Parliament, we would like to start a plenary week from the fact that justice is being restored in Ukraine today, but only because of the decision of the European Court of Human Rights. I would like to inform you, first of all, that the European Court of Human Rights has declared the arrest and imprisonment of the leader of the Ukrainian opposition, Yulia Timoshenko, illegal. We demand the execution of the decision and the release of Timoshenko. [[Applause]] One of the key prerequisites for signing an agreement between the European Union and Ukraine is to stop political persecution. But such a stop in political persecution should also bear the responsibility of those involved in the process: first - illegal investigation, second - illegal prosecution, third - illegal arrest and fourth - making illegal decisions that the European Court of Human Rights has declared to be in violation of basic human rights conventions. The Ukrainian opposition, namely the All-Ukrainian Union of Fatherland, demands that the following questions be put to Parliament at this plenary week. The first is the question of the establishment of a temporary commission of inquiry to violate the Constitution when making illegal decisions on the imprisonment of Yulia Timoshenko and Yuri Lucenka. The other one. Parliament should consider bringing criminal responsibility to all the judges and prosecutors involved in the political persecution of Yulia Timoshenko and Yuri Lucenka. That is: 10 judges and 12 investigators and prosecutors. The relevant decisions have been made in Parliament. And we demand that those who violate the law that violate the oath of judges who have followed the telephone orders of the President's Administration, rather than governed by the principle of justice and law, be punished, and they should be in prison, not Julia Timoshenko. [[Applause]] Third. Dear Mr. Head, you have called for the opposition to work constructively in the walls of Parliament. This is something that the Supreme Council of Ukraine cannot do for a very long period of time, but it is the majority’s fault, not the opposition’s fault. We made it clear that today we believe that there are issues in the agenda of Ukraine that need an immediate solution, not for the MPs, but for the Prime Minister and the President, but for millions of Ukrainians who are really looking forward to change. Unfortunately, all of our work together is that most of the factions of the Party of Regions are systematically refusing to consider the bills that are needed today for Ukraine. Those committees where most of the Party of Regions are rejecting our bills, such as when dozens of committee decisions were handed out this morning that the social bills passed by the opposition were not supported by the Committees. The Declined Amnesty Law in 2013. It is an amnesty against thousands of Ukrainians who are unjustly affected by illegal justice and a law that makes it impossible to free Julia Timoshenko. The Committee rejects the Act on raising social standards and guarantees for the restoration of social protection for citizens. The Committee has rejected the Act on the Strengthening of Responsibility for Violations of Workers’ Social, Labour Guarantees. The committee was sent to prework and, more precisely, the rejected Act on the Protection of Professional Journalism. The Committees rejected a bill on the denunciation of the Agreement between Ukraine and the Russian Federation on the residence of the Black Sea fleet of the Russian Federation in Ukraine. This is Mr. Head to you, answering your questions, saying that the opposition does not require a denunciation of the agreement. The opposition demands it, but the committee that controls the Party of the Regions didn't do it. Similarly rejected is the Agreement on the Denunciation of the Agreement between Ukraine and the Republic of Cyprus, to which $72 billion has been sent over the past two years. There are also dozens of other bills that are needed today to restore the social, political, and economic rights of Ukrainians. So, Mr. Head, I am addressing you and the leader of the largest faction of power, that if we speak the language that we work for the people of Ukraine, it is the people of Ukraine, not in Parliament, but the people of Ukraine, who are standing on the streets. It's on the street when the All-Ukrainian Action "Get up Ukraine!"... tens of thousands of Ukrainians will come to defend their rights, come to express their 'no' to Viktor Yanukovich's regime and say.
ParlaMint-UA_2013-05-14-m0.u19	Please finish the dates.
ParlaMint-UA_2013-05-14-m0.u20	And will say yes to the European Ukraine. May 18, Kiev, action "Get up, Ukraine!"and Ukraine will so rise.
ParlaMint-UA_2013-05-14-m0.u21	Ladies and gentlemen, we are running out of time to discuss matters. There's a proposal for two issues from today's consideration to remove -- this is the law of first reading 2342 and 2342-1; we've decided on the Conciliation Council to move from consideration. And there's a proposal for the first question under the law: to remove the disagreements in the text of the adopted Ukrainian Law on Amendments to the Criminal and Criminal Procedure Codes of Ukraine, and also to bring this law into line with all factions and committees, and to return to consideration. These are the questions that you have in your daily routine to consider. Is there any objection? None. The proposal for the inclusion in the agenda of the draft Law, registration number 2689, to amend article 7 of the Ukrainian Law on State Social Assistance to Lowly Provided Families (for those who provide social services) is therefore being considered. So I would like to give the floor to the Committee on Social Policy, Peter Stepanovich Cibenko. Please.
ParlaMint-UA_2013-05-14-m0.u22	Thank you, Vladimir Vasilovich. Communist faction, Peter Cibenko, head of the Ukrainian Veterans Organization Council The Social Policy and Labour Committee has been working on Government Bill No. 2689. The bill proposes to amend article 7 of the Ukrainian Act on State social assistance for low-income families, namely, to include in the number of persons entitled to state social assistance for low-income families of low-income family members who provide social services. The bill is designed to strengthen the state support of families who have found themselves in difficult living conditions that will improve their social protection. Today, those who provide social services to the disabled of the second and third groups do not have the right to grant State social assistance to low - income families, but they receive only compensatory benefits, ranging from seven to fifteen percent of the minimum wage for working persons. At the same time, those who provide social services to the first group have the right to receive such assistance. The bill therefore proposes that State social assistance be granted to low-income families, those who provide social services, the disabled of the second and third groups. The committee, in fact, has been working on this bill, there are positive conclusions on the committee's profile, and tomorrow at the committee meeting, we're looking at it. So I'd like a colleague to support this one. the inclusion in the agenda of the bill. Thank you.
ParlaMint-UA_2013-05-14-m0.u23	Thank you. The draft law on this issue has been handed down to the deputies. Is there a need to discuss this issue for inclusion? [[B in m in s a l in]] You won't? I'd like you to sign up for the deputies. How will we consider this question? Short-term procedure? It's a short-term procedure, isn't it? Please, Miroshnichenko Igor, "Freedom."
ParlaMint-UA_2013-05-14-m0.u24	Please pass the word to Ruslan Zelik.
ParlaMint-UA_2013-05-14-m0.u25	Pass it on, please.
ParlaMint-UA_2013-05-14-m0.u26	Ruslan Zelik, the All-Ukrainian Freedom Union. Dear Society, indeed, at the committee meeting tomorrow we will consider the bill. And it is this legislative proposal that is aimed at State support for the least protected families. So I think we should put it into the agenda today, vote for it, to put it into the agenda. The Freedom faction will vote in favour of this bill. Thank you.
ParlaMint-UA_2013-05-14-m0.u27	Please, Stoyan, Party of Regions.
ParlaMint-UA_2013-05-14-m0.u28	Alexander Stoyan, faction of the Party of the Regions. Dear colleagues, our political power is a faction of the Party of Regions, following the President's social proposals, constantly supports those social laws that aim at improving life in general and in this case those who provide social assistance to the disabled. What are you talking about? I want to explain very popularly. Today, there are disabled people in the first, second, third group. And those people -- well, first of all, mom or dad -- are helping these first-class people with disabilities who can't work, move and stuff. And for that, the state gives them social assistance for these social services. It's at the minimum of living, but it somehow covers the costs, the physical, the morals that parents give to these categories. There are categories of people with disabilities in the second and third groups. They also need help as family members, perhaps other caregivers, and so forth. And these people actually get 15-20 percent of the living minimum, that's a penny. So we think we need to compare these categories of our citizens, who provide services to the disabled of the second and third groups, they provide social services. So the faction of the Party of the Regions will fully support this bill in the future, and today I ask you to include it in the agenda. Thank you.
ParlaMint-UA_2013-05-14-m0.u29	Faction Impact, please, People's Deputy Rosenko.
ParlaMint-UA_2013-05-14-m0.u30	Paul Rosenco, Vitaly Calla. Well, that's how we've been guided by the country over the past three years, that we have people who provide social services to people with disabilities, veterans, low-security families, other categories of unprotected citizens, today need social assistance from the state. It's a paradoxical painting where these people are actually now beyond survival, beyond poverty. This is certainly the summation of the work of today’s authorities, and this is the sum total of three years in office both of the President and of the Cabinet of Ministers in charge of Azar. Obviously, the strike faction supports this initiative, but we want to point out that stimulating these categories of workers should go through high wages. A teacher, a doctor, a social worker should have a basic.
ParlaMint-UA_2013-05-14-m0.u31	Let me finish.
ParlaMint-UA_2013-05-14-m0.u32	Basic high wages have these categories. We will never have high social protection when the social worker has a low wage. We will never have a proper level of health care if a doctor in Ukraine today has a meager salary. The same can be said for education. So the future of Ukraine is in decent pay to the teacher, doctor, social workers and other categories of our citizens. Thank you for your attention.
ParlaMint-UA_2013-05-14-m0.u33	Thank you. The word for the national deputy of Yavorowski and Lazko. And we'll make decisions.
ParlaMint-UA_2013-05-14-m0.u34	Vladimir Yavorowski, Kyiv, Trinity, Fatherland. Respectable Society! It's a huge oversight that we've actually let people out of our sight who help the elderly, the disabled, and so on. It's particularly important today when, in fact, they're almost everywhere today, at least in villages and villages, the homes of the elderly, and people are actually staying -- lonely people, I mean, they're staying on the street. As a result, today these people are, in effect, scapegoats who work for the disabled, for the elderly, and they certainly need help. Because of that, the "Paternity" faction will give its votes in order to include this bill in the agenda, and later, when we consider it in the first reading, we will accept it. This is vital and vital to our day. We will do a good job, and even though we will soften our sins a little bit before the common people of Ukraine.
ParlaMint-UA_2013-05-14-m0.u35	Thank you. Turn on the microphone of the deputy Lazko.
ParlaMint-UA_2013-05-14-m0.u36	Oleg Lazko, Radical Party. Dear Vladimir Vasilovich! I support the bill on strengthening social assistance for low - income families. But I'd like to turn to you for another reason. Right now, all the deputies were on their way to the Supreme Council and saw a part of John Mazepa's street being actively repaired from the Arsenal to the Supreme Council. How many years I've been going, I think it was one of the normal, best roads. Is this the most necessary thing to repair? Let those who repair this central road go to Troastina, to Borsztagovka, to Lisov, look at the roads! What kind of fool gave the command to repair this road?Oh, my God! I ask you, as Head of the Supreme Council, to find out this question and to inform who will bury the money in order to repair the roads to the Supreme Council, to the Government, to the President, instead of repairing the roads to villages, to the people, to the residents of housing in Kiev?Oh, my God!
ParlaMint-UA_2013-05-14-m0.u37	Thank you. I want to remind the MPs that we have a government hour on Friday. The government will be fully stocked. And the MP will be able to ask everyone a question. Including what you ask. Let's move on to making a decision. I am voting for the inclusion in the agenda of the draft Act (registration number 2689) on the amendment to article 7 of the Ukrainian Act on State social assistance to low-income families (for those who provide social services). People's deputies, please vote. [[10:55:51]] For 354 Against - 0, held - 0, not voted - 61. Decision taken. Let's move on. Let's go to chapter one. And a draft Act amending some Ukrainian legislation on the prevention and protection of discrimination in Ukraine is being introduced. Yeah, we got it, we got it. A draft Act amending certain Ukrainian legislation on the implementation of State anti-corruption policy (No. 2837) is being introduced. How will we view it? Is it full? Is it complete or abbreviated? Then I put the vote to a reduced procedure. Anyone who proposes to consider this issue on a reduced basis, please vote. [[10:57:54]] For 155 Against 76, held – 43, not voted – 142. Decision taken. The factions. Regional Party - 153, "Paternity" - 0, Vitala Klicka - 0, "Freedom" - 0, Company - 0, non-fractional - 2. Paul Petrenko, a national delegate of Ukraine, is given a word for the report. Please.
ParlaMint-UA_2013-05-14-m0.u38	Paul Petrenko, "Fatherland" faction. Dear head, distinguished national MPs! For no one is the secret that corruption is one of the main problems of our nation. To confirm this, there are figures. In 2012 alone, Ukraine ranked 144 among 176 countries at the level of corruption of all branches of government. According to the Ministry of Justice, the total damage caused by corruption amounted to over a billion dollars. But real numbers are much higher. Therefore, European institutions have repeatedly stressed to us that the main problem that needs to be overcome in Ukraine for European integration is corruption within government authorities and local self-government. So we are now on the verge of making a responsible decision. And I want to introduce to you our joint bill of four factions number 2837 on combating corruption in all branches of government. The main money proposed in this bill is, in particular, the discovery of an anti-corruption register of violations by government officials. The second is the verification of the information declared by government officials in their declarations. The third is the introduction of an anti-corruption review of all legal and regulatory acts under consideration by the authorities, including the Supreme Council. The fourth is the expansion of the group of people, the relatives of government officials, who have to make declarations of their income and expenditure. The fifth is a reduction in the threshold of expenditure that is subject to the relevant declaration. This law is very revolutionary, and it will allow us all in this session room to take a real and effective step to combat corruption in Ukraine. Therefore, I believe that in view of the fact that this law is passed and supported by representatives of all four factions, we have a request for you, support it in the first reading, and.
ParlaMint-UA_2013-05-14-m0.u39	Let me finish.
ParlaMint-UA_2013-05-14-m0.u40	This is one of the bills that are included in the package of Euro-Integration Laws and is mandatory according to the Plan of Action on Visa Liberalisation with the European Union. Thank you.
ParlaMint-UA_2013-05-14-m0.u41	Thank you. Who's gonna report from the committee? Chairman of the Committee on Combating Organized Crime and Corruption, Victor Vasilovich Chumak, please.
ParlaMint-UA_2013-05-14-m0.u42	Victor Chumak, 214 constituency, Kyiv, Dniprovsky district, political party, Vitalia Klicka. Dear Vladimir Vasilovich, dear colleagues, I just want to add what my colleague Mr. Petrenko has said, that we all understand today that in our country of corruption is not a phenomenon, corruption is an environment in which kindness is sometimes a phenomenon that we can observe. Therefore, the fight against corruption is likely to be a major challenge for all deputies. And all the political factions in the election made commitments to strengthen this fight or to resist corruption. Today we have a test. A test is whether the MPs are willing to make a real commitment to strengthen the legislative field in the fight against corruption. I'm not going to repeat myself and talk about what my colleague said about the basic innovations of this law, and I'm going to say they're really very serious and very active. It is vital that they be executed and be exercised by the executive authority. Given what we have today, I'm only two minutes away from today, and I want to add a few notes to the transcript. These remarks have been made by our national deputies, along with the Ministry of Justice. I want to add the following to the stenogram. In the End Positions of the Bill, we should add that all the changes to the Financial Declaration take effect as of 1 January 2014. Thus, financial declarations for 2013 will be filled in according to the old rules. Why are we doing this? In order not to receive a further application to the Constitutional Court on this matter. So we should add that paragraph 14 of the bill takes effect on 1 January 2014. We also need to add time to the Ministry of Justice for technical work to reveal the data of the One State Register of Persons Who Have Done Corruption Offences. Therefore, at the request of the Ministry of Justice, it is proposed that paragraphs 14 to 20 of paragraph 12 be added.
ParlaMint-UA_2013-05-14-m0.u43	Please finish the dates.
ParlaMint-UA_2013-05-14-m0.u44	takes effect six months from the date of its publication. Minust insists that paragraph 14 of paragraph 14 of section 23 be deleted. This is true of first - time civil servants who are not required to make a declaration of expenditure. And one observation of a technical nature. In part 12 of article 37 of the Law on State Service, replace the words “intentional crime committed” with “intentional criminal offence”; and replace the words “for criminal responsibility for committing corruption” with the words “for responsibility for administrative corruption related to the violation of the restrictions provided for in the Ukrainian Law on Principles for Preventing and Resisting Corruption”. This is done to avoid, let's say, inaccuracies of technical, editorial inaccuracies in attracting persons to criminal responsibility for administrative offences. The committee has considered this bill, supports it and I ask the people's deputies to vote in favour of it and in general. Thank you for your attention.
ParlaMint-UA_2013-05-14-m0.u45	Thank you. If you'd like to participate in the discussion, sign up for factions: two for, two against. Nadravichenko, National Deputy, Strike faction, please.
ParlaMint-UA_2013-05-14-m0.u46	Dear Mr. Head! Dear National Deputies! The Vitalia Klicka faction of the Supreme Council claims that every citizen of Ukraine needs and is essential for the adoption of the bills currently being submitted in Parliament, namely to increase the fight against corruption, and more specifically to start in the country of anti-corruption illustration. We demand that tomorrow's public list of the highest officials of Ukraine be made public, regardless of the positions they hold, with the property they have acquired illegally, in our territory or abroad, and that it is in Parliament's hearings and committees that we are ready to begin both listening and initiating the process of inducing responsibility and confiscation of independently acquired or stolen property, businesses and land. We believe that this is exactly what should begin with honesty in the Supreme Council, and we will really see if the national MPs of Ukraine are really set up to fight corruption. The other one. The Vitalia Klitschka faction and our leader, Vitaly Klitschko, have introduced bills that already oblige each state authority to serve as a citizen rather than forcing a Ukrainian citizen to collect endless information from birth to registration of his own enterprise or to receive a pension. We have introduced such a bill, and we believe that it is an integral part of the package of the beginning of the anticorruption illustration of Ukraine. And the third. We believe that as soon as possible, all government purchases at the expense of the state budget should be placed under control and published, all costs and revenues should be made public, the so-called server, so that every citizen can see daily how much money is in the state and what the authorities are spending it on. Thank you for your attention.
ParlaMint-UA_2013-05-14-m0.u47	The Fatherland faction, national deputy Yavorowski, please.
ParlaMint-UA_2013-05-14-m0.u48	Vladimir Yavorowski, Kyiv, Trinity, Fatherland Dear colleagues, it's really scary, we live in a country where the metastases of corruption have actually captured the whole society from the first cabinet that is in Ukraine today, from the President to the village council, where the head and secretary are tearing the rural lands to the right and to the left. One day an old grandmother came to me with a very traditional request to return her money for the book. I've been explaining to her for a long time that it's almost impossible to do this today, because there's not a penny in the budget for it. She left, I folded my papers and looked at the envelope and she left me 10 bracelets -- it's called admitting to a deputy. I caught up with her, I barely caught up with her, and I returned the money. It's true, it's not being considered today, it's actually going to be a decorative fight against corruption. And the money allocated to the fight against corruption is actually privatizing because of the corruption schemes. Because of this, it seems to me that this bill, introduced by our colleagues today, is such an immediate step that at least this corrupt blow in Ukraine can be reduced a little bit. Because of the Fatherland, and I think the whole opposition, we support this bill. I have little faith that today's authorities are capable of and will want and will have the political will to do this bill, but that it needs to be adopted, and this is indeed a fundamental thing that can make some adjustments to the fight against corruption in Ukraine.
ParlaMint-UA_2013-05-14-m0.u49	Freedom Union, National MP of the Marches.
ParlaMint-UA_2013-05-14-m0.u50	Please. Ruslan Marcinkov, All-Ukrainian Freedom Union. Please pass the word to Oleg.
ParlaMint-UA_2013-05-14-m0.u51	Pass it on, please.
ParlaMint-UA_2013-05-14-m0.u52	Oleg Knaczykki, the All-Ukrainian Freedom Union. Dear Head, dear colleagues! The fact that the bill has been submitted by four factions suggests that the problem of corruption today has become a superpolitical and a social problem. This law improves and establishes real mechanisms to combat corruption, which in fact ensure that such an phenomenon is opposed. Today’s legislation, as monitoring has shown, contains many dead standards that do not solve this problem. And this is actually a bill that was tabled at the request of the European Union, as my colleague Petrenko said, in order to implement the visa liberalisation programme. But this bill, although it will solve some of the problems, but when it is discussed, in its work, when representatives and the European Union participated, they stressed that without the creation of the Anti-Corruption Bureau, without the adoption of the Verification Act, the anti-corruption examination of persons who claim to serve in the public service, such a law would only be helpful. And so the leaders of the three opposition factions were actually introduced and proposed at this plenary week to consider important basic laws -- this is about the Anti-Corruption Bureau and also about verification. And a very important bill, without which the problem of corruption will not be solved, is the adoption of the Book of Illustration Act. Thank you.
ParlaMint-UA_2013-05-14-m0.u53	Thank you. The discussion is over. Please prepare for the vote. I am betting on a draft Act (No. 2837) amending some Ukrainian legislation on the implementation of State anti-corruption policy as a basis. Please vote. [[11:11:44]] For 367 Against - 0, held - 0, did not vote - 50. Decision taken. There is a proposal for national MPs to adopt the law as a whole. Who is behind this proposal to adopt Law 2837, amending certain laws of Ukraine. [[B in m in s a l in]] Take it off, please. Please, who? National MP Zharavsky, please.
ParlaMint-UA_2013-05-14-m0.u54	Dear colleagues, our faction has a number of substantive observations that need to be worked out. This bill contains a number of provisions that conflict with the basic law – the Constitution of Ukraine. So our proposal is to stop at that now. Thank you.
ParlaMint-UA_2013-05-14-m0.u55	Faction manager, please, Alexander Sergiyovich.
ParlaMint-UA_2013-05-14-m0.u56	Dear colleagues, our colleague Zharavsky, he was mistaken.
ParlaMint-UA_2013-05-14-m0.u57	We have no comments in the faction.
ParlaMint-UA_2013-05-14-m0.u58	Well, let's hear it.
ParlaMint-UA_2013-05-14-m0.u59	There are comments on the committee. If the Committee makes comments, then we should see whether we listen to them or not. The faction as a whole of the Party of the Regions does not object to the adoption as a whole. Thank you.
ParlaMint-UA_2013-05-14-m0.u60	I didn't hear the offer, so I'm moving on to the second question. [[B in m in s a l in]] Oh, let me hear it! Let me hear it! I say again, I didn't hear what happened, you didn't let me hear it. Please, Alexander Sergiyovich, your offer.
ParlaMint-UA_2013-05-14-m0.u61	The faction of the Party of the Regions does not object to the overall consideration.
ParlaMint-UA_2013-05-14-m0.u62	It's over! What are you yelling at?Oh, my God! Please, please, Nadvajchenko, hit. Nadajchenko, strike faction, please.
ParlaMint-UA_2013-05-14-m0.u63	Thank you, Mr. Head. The Vitaly Klitschka faction emphasizes that those who didn't get to know each other at the holidays but were resting in the sea with this bill are no reason not to fight corruption. Please don't pick up and determine the position – and show the citizens of Ukraine. We insist on a general discussion. Thank you.
ParlaMint-UA_2013-05-14-m0.u64	Thank you. Attention! I ask you to prepare for the vote. Attention! I am voting on draft Act (No. 2837) amending some Ukrainian legislation on the implementation of State anti-corruption policy for adoption as a whole. Please vote. (Go vote! Don't vote!) [[11:15:12]] For 373 Against 0. Hold on to 0. They didn't vote, 44. Decision taken. The factions. Region Party - 167, Fatherland - 81, Vitalia Klicka - 37, Freedom - 35, Company - 30, Postfaction - 23. Decision taken. Let's move on to another question. A draft Act on Amendments to the Ukrainian Law on Principles for Prevention and Anti-Corruption of Corruption and the Supreme Council of Ukraine Rules (for the Improvement of Certain Provisions) is under consideration. It's the law again. draft law 2577. Please. Please, the head of the Committee on Combating Organized Crime and Corruption, Chumak Viktor Vasilovich. Please. Let's hear it. Turn on the microphone. Chumuk Viktor Vasilovich.
ParlaMint-UA_2013-05-14-m0.u65	National MP Chumak, 214 constituency. Dear Vladimir Vasilovich! In view of the fact that Law 2837 took into account all the standards laid down in Laws 2577 and 2608, there is a proposal to reject Laws 2577, 2608 without considering them. And go on in the daytime.
ParlaMint-UA_2013-05-14-m0.u66	Is it accepted? Please, Adam Ivanovich. The Communist faction.
ParlaMint-UA_2013-05-14-m0.u67	Thank you. Martinyuk, the Communist faction. Dear colleagues! In particular, I turn to those who have adopted a basic law in the past three days. You remember how harshly we treated him and how we treated each of his standards. I'm afraid that now that we're starting to adopt laws in a hurry, we can make the basic law that is in force today much worse. As for the following two bills, they absolutely deny what we have just accepted. Because even though they're not supposed to be, because they're divorced in time, but they're in conflict with each other. So, by supporting the proposal of a committee of profiles, I propose that the next two bills be removed from consideration by voting. It's not just moving them or taking them away, but taking them off the table, since we've actually passed a law that takes into account what's in the following bills.
ParlaMint-UA_2013-05-14-m0.u68	Is everyone all right? I am voting on the draft Act (Registration No. 2777) amending the Ukrainian Anti-Corruption and Anti-Corruption Principles Act and the Supreme Council of Ukraine Rules (for the Improvement of Individual Regulations) to reject and withdraw from consideration. People's deputies, please vote. [[11:18:57]] For 354 Against 0, held – 1, not voted – 61. Decision taken. A draft Act (No. 2608) amending some Ukrainian legislation on improving financial control and conflict of interest is being introduced. I ask the chairman of the Committee of Chumak Viktor Vasilovich to give the floor.
ParlaMint-UA_2013-05-14-m0.u69	Volodymyr Vasilovich! I ask that this bill be withdrawn in view of the fact that the law entered into Law 2837.
ParlaMint-UA_2013-05-14-m0.u70	Is everyone okay? Attention! I am voting on the draft Law 2608, amending some of the Ukrainian legislative acts to improve financial control and resolve conflicts of interest, to reject and withdraw from consideration. People's deputies, please vote. [[11:20:28]] For 358 Against 0, held – 2, not voted – 59. Decision taken. A draft Act (No. 2836) amending certain Ukrainian legislation on improving the personal data protection system is being introduced. How will we consider this question? Who's in favour of considering a reduced procedure, please vote. [[11:21:22]] For-187 Decision taken. I invite the head of the Committee on Human Rights, National Minorities and International Relations, Valeri Vasilovich Packan. Please.
ParlaMint-UA_2013-05-14-m0.u71	Good afternoon, Reverend Head! Dear National Deputies! For your consideration, a bill is proposed to amend some of the legislation on improving the personal system. Protected by the Puckan People's Deputy, Geidosh, Benjuk, Popescu, Samoilenko. The normative side of this law is that it makes a number of changes to the Administrative Code of Personal Data Protection. The changes are aimed at improving the national personal data protection system and ensuring the independence of the body, which supervises and supervises the enforcement of personal data protection legislation. The bill is designed to implement the requirements of the Convention on the Protection of Persons in relation to automated processing of personal data and the Protocol to the Convention on Surveillance and Cross-border Data Flows. The main feature of this law is that it makes it impossible to control the creation of a database of personal data by the State, including the central executive body of the Ukrainian State Service for the protection of personal data. At the same time, the regulatory functions in this field are passed on to the Commissioner of Human Rights, since he is authorized to be an independent institution. As a result of the adoption of this bill, one of the requirements of the Action Plan for Liberalisation by the European Union of the Visa regime and the promotion of Ukraine's implementation of the Association with the European Union is to be implemented. I want to draw your attention to the fact that committee hearings on this subject were held on April 10th. The opinion of the public was taken into account, taking into account the maximum opinion of all those directly taking part in the law. We were invited before.
ParlaMint-UA_2013-05-14-m0.u72	Let me finish.
ParlaMint-UA_2013-05-14-m0.u73	Representatives of the Central Electoral Commission, the Office of the Attorney-General of Ukraine, the Ministry of Justice and other representatives of the authorities of the State. Dear colleagues, I emphasise that the initiators of the introduction of the law are???seven members of the committee and representatives of all political factions in the Supreme Council. Please accept this bill as a basis and as a whole. Thank you.
ParlaMint-UA_2013-05-14-m0.u74	Thank you. Do you want to talk about it? There's one who wants one. Please, Chewchenko. Did they turn you on? Andrew Shevchenko.
ParlaMint-UA_2013-05-14-m0.u75	Colleagues, I just wanted to take advantage of the opportunity to identify our faction's position and explain once again what we're talking about. On the one hand, Ukraine is now groaning from a very weak demographic register that puts in a totally unhealthy situation both Ukrainian entrepreneurs and hundreds of thousands of Ukrainian officials. I'll explain what this is about. At this point, there are 4 million applications for personal database registration. Of these, 50,000 were considered. On the other hand, there is very little protection for the privacy of Ukrainian citizens. You can buy personal data on Petrovka. You can take everything for everyone. We can say for a long time who brought us into this situation and who, in the past, was stifling the underprivileged law in its previous form, but obviously it is necessary to act. And act in three directions. The first is to cancel the state register. The second is to transfer control of this sensitive sphere from the Ukrainian government to the Human Rights Commissioner. And the third is that sensitive personal data, such as religion, such as political views, etc., should be particularly carefully protected. This bill takes into account all of these positions, it was developed in close cooperation with representatives of public organizations, and it takes into account the key positions that were laid out in the Shevchenka and Nemira bill, which was crossed out at a so-called exit meeting in the Bank. So our faction will vote in favour of this bill. This is a step towards Europe and this is a step towards greater protection of human rights. Thank you.
ParlaMint-UA_2013-05-14-m0.u76	Thank you. The Party of Regions, Popescu, wishes to express its opinion. Please.
ParlaMint-UA_2013-05-14-m0.u77	Thank you. Sand, faction of the Party of the Regions. Your Honor, I'm going to be very brief. First, I point out that this bill was designed to implement the National Plan for the Implementation of the Action Plan for Liberalisation by the European Union of the Visa Regime for Ukraine, approved by the Presidential Decree. In addition, we resolve the issue of fulfilling our obligations not only to the European Union but also to the Council of Europe. Because when we worked, we agreed on all the factions presented to our committee and signed this bill, and we considered many proposals. I ask to vote not only on the basis but also on the whole. Thank you.
ParlaMint-UA_2013-05-14-m0.u78	Did everyone say that? I am voting on draft Act 2836 amending some Ukrainian legislation on improving the system of protection of personal data on the basis and in general. Please vote for the people's deputies. [[11:27:30.]] For 348 Against - 0, held - 0, not voted - 71. Decision taken. A second reading of the draft Law (No. 1263) amending article 263-1 of the Criminal Code of Ukraine in connection with Ukraine’s accession to the Protocol against the Illicit Manufacture and Circumvention of Firearms, Their Parts and Components, which complements the United Nations Convention against Transnational Organized Crime. And I would like to invite the rapporteur, the secretary of the Committee on Legislative Provision of Vitaly Stanislavovich Žuravski, to the floor.
ParlaMint-UA_2013-05-14-m0.u79	Dear Chairman! Dear colleagues! As a result of the first reading, the Supreme Council of Ukraine decided to adopt the bill (register 1263) on the basis of the commission of the Main Committee to prepare it for its second reading. In preparing the bill, three proposals came to the committee for consideration in the second reading: Amendment No. 1 of Honorable Hennadia Fedorjak and Ruslan Solvar; Amendment No. 2 of Hennadia Fedorjak, Ruslan Solvar and Mikola Palamarczuk; and Amendment No. 3 of Andrija Kozemyakin. Amendment No. 1, which referred to the exclusion from the title and the disposition of article 263 of the Criminal Code 1 of such a concept as “failure”, was not supported by the committee. Amendment No. 3 Andrew Cosemyakina was supported by the committee, as was Amendment No. 2 of Gennadia Fedorjak, Ruslan Solvar, and Mikola Palamarczuk in this section. One amendment was rejected by the committee, two of which was partly taken into account. The bill was initiated by the Supreme Council of Ukraine’s Chief Legal Authority. As a result of its deliberations, the Committee on Legislative Security adopted a decision: recommending to the Ukrainian Parliament the adoption of a bill (registration number 1263) on second reading and as a whole as a law. Please be supportive.
ParlaMint-UA_2013-05-14-m0.u80	First, Fedorac and Solvar were rejected. Do you insist? I won't. Then let's vote on the committee. People's deputies, please vote. [[11:31:01]] For 326 The committee's decision is supported. On the other hand, in part, do you insist on voting? No, it's not. Thank you, then. There is a proposal: a draft Act (No. 1263) amending article 263-1 of the Criminal Code of Ukraine in connection with the accession of Ukraine to the Protocol against the Illicit Manufacture and Circumvention of Firearms, Their Parts and Components and Ammunition, which complements the United Nations Convention against Transnational Organized Crime to be adopted on second reading and in general. People's deputies, please vote. [[11:32:19.]] For 346 Against - 0, held - 0, did not vote - 72. Decision on this law has been made. The draft Law (No. 0977) amending the Constitution of Ukraine on Inviolability is under consideration. Conclusions of the Constitutional Court of Ukraine since 10/07.2012 have been reached. I invite the head of the Committee on Legal Policy, Pisarenko Valery Volodymyrovich.
ParlaMint-UA_2013-05-14-m0.u81	The Honourable Head of the Supreme Council, the Honourable People's Deputies of Ukraine! The Committee on Legal Policy reviewed the mandate of the Head of the Supreme Council of Ukraine at its meeting on March 6, 2013, a draft law amending the Constitution of Ukraine on immunity (registration number 0977). The purpose of the bill introduced by the Ukrainian National Deputies Tomenk, Mishchenk, Sas and others is to deprive the national deputies of Ukraine, the President of Ukraine and the judges of the right to inviolability. To achieve this, the bill provides for amendments to articles 80, 105, 126 and 149 of the Basic Law of Ukraine. On June 20, 2012, the bill was sent to the Constitutional Court of Ukraine to reach a conclusion on compliance with the requirements of articles 157, 158 of the Basic Law of Ukraine. On July 10, 2012, the Constitutional Court of Ukraine adopted a finding in the case of the Supreme Council of Ukraine. According to this conclusion, the Constitutional Court of Ukraine has admitted that it meets the requirements of the Basic Law of Ukraine to the provisions of the bill, which is proposed in articles 1 and 3 of article 80 of the Constitution of Ukraine to exclude. The Constitutional Court of Ukraine has declared that they do not meet the requirements of article 157, section 1, of the Constitution, of the bill, which proposes to amend articles 105, 126 and 149 of the Basic Law of Ukraine. According to article 150, part 1, of the Rules of the Supreme Council of Ukraine, if, in the conclusion of the Constitutional Court of Ukraine, a bill amending the Constitution of Ukraine as a whole or its separate provisions is recognized as not meeting the requirements of articles 157 and 158 of the Constitution of Ukraine, and if, in the conclusion of the Constitutional Court of Ukraine, a warning is given to the provisions of such a bill, the Supreme Council shall decide on the issue of further work on the bill and determine: firstly, the deadline for the submission of proposals and amendments to the bill by the relevant subjects; secondly, the deadline for the consideration of proposals and amendments to the bill by the main committees and other committees; thirdly, the deadline for the submission of relevant documents to the national deputies of Ukraine; and fourthly, the date for the consideration of proposals, amendments to the bill at the meeting of the Supreme Council of Ukraine. According to part two of article 142 of the Supreme Council of Ukraine’s Rules of Procedure, the right to submit proposals to the Supreme Council, amendments, bills amending the Constitution of Ukraine is the President of Ukraine, as well as the national deputies of Ukraine in the number provided for in article 154 of the first article of the Constitution of Ukraine to submit relevant bills to the Supreme Council. With a view to ensuring that the requirements of article 159 of the Constitution of Ukraine are met and that the constitutional procedure for the review of the draft Act amending the Constitution of Ukraine on immunity (registration number 0977) has been completed in connection with the conclusion of the Constitutional Court of Ukraine of 10 July 2011, the Committee decided to recommend to the Supreme Council of Ukraine the adoption of the draft Decision of the Supreme Council of Ukraine on further work on the bill. At the same time, I note that the draft decree was prepared by the committee and introduced in March of this year. For reasons independent of the committee, this draft ruling has not yet been considered. The deadlines proposed by the committee to amend the bill on amendments to the basic law of Ukraine were split. I would like to draw your attention, honourable national deputies, to the fact that in the event of the timely adoption of the draft decision proposed by the committee, today. We should be looking at a bill that's already been drafted. As a possible solution to the situation, the committee proposes this. First. To predict such things in the text of the law. Proposals and amendments to the bill are to be made by 31 May 2013. The work of the relevant committees of proposals and amendments to the bill should be carried out by 14 June 2013. Submission of documents provided for under article 150 of the Supreme Council of Ukraine’s Rules of Procedure, part three, on 18 June 2013. The draft bill was held at a plenary meeting of the Supreme Council of Ukraine on June 20, 2013. And in general, please accept the draft ruling proposed by the committee. Once again, I would like to point out, honourable national MPs: a bill in part approved by the Constitutional Court of Ukraine as constitutional. In order to give him further life, the Supreme Council must, after confirming the changes that I have just read about the terms of the bill, return him to the committee where the honourable people's deputies will have the opportunity to finalize this bill and bring to Parliament's attention, by deleting those points that the Constitutional Court has recognized as not in conformity with the Basic Law of Ukraine. Thank you.
ParlaMint-UA_2013-05-14-m0.u82	Any questions for the reporter? No questions asked. Thank you. Have a seat. Please sign up for the committee statements. From factions, and then from deputies. Yes. Party of regions, Momot.
ParlaMint-UA_2013-05-14-m0.u83	Please give the floor to the People's Deputy Guzenek.
ParlaMint-UA_2013-05-14-m0.u84	Pass it on, please.
ParlaMint-UA_2013-05-14-m0.u85	Dear Vladimir Vasilovich, distinguished colleagues, under the conditions of representative democracy, the authority of the people is exercised directly and through representatives. Ideally, they have full responsibility for the state of affairs in the State. This creates risks for their activities. Thus, some of the highest officials in Ukraine have a status of in touch. Inviolability, according to the Constitutional Court of Ukraine, is an important constitutional guarantee to ensure the smooth and effective exercise of functions that are not a personal privilege but a public and legal one. Today, however, the level of intrusiveness and its interpretation create conditions for negative treatment of Ukrainian citizens. Examples of the status of immunity in other states illustrate the need for it to exist in Ukraine. However, the integrity of the members of the Supreme Council should be essentially parliamentary. I therefore propose to support the committee's proposals. Thank you for your attention.
ParlaMint-UA_2013-05-14-m0.u86	It's Vitaly Call's Faction. Rosetta, please.
ParlaMint-UA_2013-05-14-m0.u87	Paul Rosenko, strike faction. Please pass on the word to Natalia Agafone.
ParlaMint-UA_2013-05-14-m0.u88	Please include Natalia Agaphonov. Please turn the microphone on on the rostrum.
ParlaMint-UA_2013-05-14-m0.u89	Natalia Agaphonova, Vitalia Klitschka Faction. In general, I would like to point out that the need for changes to the Constitution on immunity and on the part of the MP, both the President and the judge, has long been an urgent necessity. But this issue, from one political point of view or another, has been continuously halted over the past 10 years. The unwarranted development of the provisions of the Constitution – the 80s, 105s, 126s, 149st Constitution of Ukraine – has come into conflict with one of the fundamental provisions of the Constitution of Ukraine, namely the equality of all citizens before the law. The legal regime that was formed gave them unlimited powers to the President, the deputies, and the judges of the Law. In our country, there is absolute pristineness. By objectively appreciating the current state situation, this institution as an organic component of the institution of the President's and Judges' deputies in general is not the mechanism that guarantees the rights and freedoms of both the individual and the citizen. Today, this mechanism is a wall that divides a citizen and divides the political elite that calls itself that and implements it. Indeed, there is something that does not make the citizens, the people of Ukraine feel free and equal in this state. The paradox of intactity in Ukraine is that there is a weight that makes it possible for political corruption in the state. And if you put on the scales of parliamentary integrity and as a guarantor, and as a tool to guarantee their activity and, on the other hand, as an instrument of political corruption, the latter prevails. In general, with regard to the Constitutional Court's conclusion on the part of the President, I would like to say that the articles provide that, in the absence of a President, his duties rely on the Prime Minister. But if the Constitutional Court considers that this position is unconstitutional, I ask for the support of the committee's proposal to give time for amendments. And with these amendments, we're going to try to change the president's status in order for him to be equal to the deputies and the judges. And also so that these positions are constitutional. So the strike faction supports the committee's proposal and will vote in favour. Thank you.
ParlaMint-UA_2013-05-14-m0.u90	Thank you. Freedom Union, National Deputy Mohnik, please.
ParlaMint-UA_2013-05-14-m0.u91	Andrew Mohnik, All-Ukrainian Freedom Union. Our political power has always supported the idea of lifting parliamentary immunity in all its manifestations. And that's what our program for the protection of Ukrainians says, and that's clearly indicated. However, in the general version in which we are asked to vote on this bill, it is unacceptable. The Pocket Constitutional Court went back to selective justice. They have demonstrated that apart from those who may be deprived of parliamentary immunity, there are people who, for example, cannot be deprived of immunity. In particular, the President and the Judges. We can only imagine how the Yanukovich regime, which today actively opposes the opposition, will act when the MP's immunity is lifted. With the integrity of the judges and the integrity of the President still in place. Even now, having all the repressive apparatus in their subordination, even now, having all the powers, they're afraid of opposition and they're trying to find important influences. That today against MPs who are essentially untouchable, Berkut can use the force that we've seen over and over and over again. The fact that today there are criminal cases against patriotic deputies, nationalists, which is not surprising in principle, because this regime is a continuation of the occupation administration that existed in Ukraine, and this regime continues to pin down criminal criminals' labels to Ukrainian nationalists. Because in fact they have nothing to hide, and the only way they can secure themselves from nationalist deputies, from opposition deputies, is through criminal persecution. And so the Constitutional Court has decided that this bill can be combined and done in this way, trying to extend this decision through Parliament. Think of the number of times the question of parliamentary immunity has stood in this room, but it has not been voted on all the time. There was no vote on the grounds that there could be no privileges for one another, and the Constitution for others could not be fulfilled. And in this situation, the All-Ukrainian Union of Freedom will continue to vote, because we think that we need to go through this whole constitutional procedure again and make sure that the integrity of all the state's officials, the President, the judges, the people's deputies, are deprived of all of them without exception. No one should have privileges. Thank you.
ParlaMint-UA_2013-05-14-m0.u92	Thank you. The Fatherland faction, National Deputy Tomenko. Please.
ParlaMint-UA_2013-05-14-m0.u93	Dear colleagues, there's one thing that's historic and philosophical. Because here our philosophers are criticizing me and asking me to say that in Ukraine once the brides were untouchable or virtuous. And we're talking about untouchableness right now. There are some nuances about this. So when we talk about the institution of political and legal integrity, we as initiators of this submission came out of our common solidarity position. And I'm going to report to you that during your time in Parliament, a large number of politicians here, lawyers are voting for this bill independently of who is introducing it. Let me remind you that our faction of Fatherland unanimously supported the Bill of People's Deputies, Viktor Yanukovic and Alexander Lavrinović, who proposed to implement the principle of "law one for all" in practice. He is alone for almost 10,000 judges, for the President of Ukraine and for the national deputies. What will happen today if we support the decision of the Constitutional Court and move forward? We will operate in such a system of coordinates that our President lives his life and his, as it were, legal disposition, the judges continue to make politically motivated orders, we do not touch them, we focus on the deputy corps. So we think that this approach is selective and wrong. He only confirms the principle of selectiveness, which was applied to Julia Timoshenko, Yuri Lucenka, or other colleagues. Let's also apply this principle of selectivity to 450 deputies. So the only way out of here is we have to have the only solidarity political agreement. There can be no untouchable person in the Ukrainian State, whether it's a district judge, or a judge of the Supreme Court, or a national deputy of Ukraine, or a president. So the only way out is to pass a joint bill, where we need to re-convince that our electoral requirements are not just declarations, they are requirements of the Ukrainian society, and to state the arguments of the Constitutional Court that it cannot sign the decisions given to it by the President's Administration. He must act, protect the rights and freedoms of all citizens. So the "Fatherland" faction, in a circumcised version of inviolability, will not vote and will not play these games. We want untouchableness as a relapse of the old system to be destroyed as such and destroyed for all officials. We're going to vote on this. We're going to do this, and that's the only way we're going to be able to be honest in front of our voters and in front of the country. One cannot be made to obey the law, and the other cannot be allowed to disobey the law. Law One for All is a slogan that Fatherland supports and will implement.
ParlaMint-UA_2013-05-14-m0.u94	Thank you. From the Communist faction, please include Simonek Peter Mikolaiovich.
ParlaMint-UA_2013-05-14-m0.u95	Simonenko, the Communist faction. Ladies and gentlemen, I would like to remind you that in 2004, when the orange team came to power, we shocked the Communists for insisting that we were Communists on the distinction and elimination of the inviolability of all persons: both the President, and the judges, and the people's deputies. And then the so - called oranges came out of their minds and said that only MPs should be deprived of the touch. I reiterate on behalf of the Communist faction that we will be consistent and we will vote in favour of lifting the inviolability of both the President and the national MPs and the judges. All should be placed in equal conditions before the law. And our position of the Company faction is consistent. Back when you were in power, you were trying to do what you're doing with the hands of the Constitutional Court. Thank you.
ParlaMint-UA_2013-05-14-m0.u96	I'm asking you to sign up for the MPs who want to take part in the discussion. Please sign up. The company of Ukraine, Gordienka.
ParlaMint-UA_2013-05-14-m0.u97	Sergei Gordijenko, faction of the Ukrainian Company, Poltavščina. I would like to testify again and again to the entire Ukrainian society that the consistent position of the faction of the Company of Ukraine on the need to undo the inviolability. All must be equal before the law. And we will vote in favour of this bill as we voted in all the calls of the previous parliaments themselves. But we are consistent also in that we must undo the inviolability both for the President and for the judges in Ukraine. Because it's not the status of a national MP that gives you immunity. Today we are drawing the attention of the entire Ukrainian society to the fact that the really untouchable in our Ukraine are those who have the funds, because they will be redeemed from any liability. Let's seriously think about it, in every next bill that we're going to create just how to touch those who have large and very large amounts of money, because that's the main problem in our society. So we're going to vote and we're going to support all the bills that make everyone equal before the law. The integrity of the President, the judges and the national deputies of Ukraine must be removed. All levels must be set before society. Such a sequential position of the faction of the Company of Ukraine was in all the convocations. We will also adhere to it in voting for today’s bill. Thank you.
ParlaMint-UA_2013-05-14-m0.u98	The Fatherland faction, National Deputy Teryohin, please.
ParlaMint-UA_2013-05-14-m0.u99	I'd rather be hit by Ruslan Knazevitch than by these pharmas. Pass it on, please.
ParlaMint-UA_2013-05-14-m0.u100	Please, National Deputy Knazevitch.
ParlaMint-UA_2013-05-14-m0.u101	Dear colleagues, I must tell you one secret: there is no conclusion of the Constitutional Court on this bill in nature. The Constitutional Court took its previous opinion on another bill, which today was stealthily hidden under a drawer, because there were two bills, and simply reproduced the standards that he had written in the previous bill in conclusion, a new conclusion. Why did he accept unconstitutional positions regarding the inviolability of the President and the judges? Think about it! As far as the President is concerned, the Constitutional Court writes that if, God forbid, Parliament allows itself to cancel the President's integrity, it will eliminate independence and undermine Ukraine's territorial integrity. Dear colleagues, we don't have the only country in the world that has the absolute integrity of the President. We don't have parliamentary absolute immunity, we have relative immunity. How many times has Parliament shown that it will not hide anyone if there is sufficient reason to give consent to be held accountable? Moreover, we have recently come up with other, innovative ways of actually removing the obstacle to the inviolability and termination of the powers of deputies through the judicial authorities. But as for the President, he's completely untouchable. Because the Constitutional Court, which had all these 15 years to stand on the watch for constitutionality, had closed its eyes to impeachment in the Ukrainian Constitution and because of the laws of the dead. It's not implemented by definition. Moreover, a number of laws have not been adopted that at least hypothetically open the way for such a procedure. As far as judges are concerned, this is completely absurd. The Constitutional Court finally mentioned that they were judges, and because of the fear that it might be possible for them to remove the inviolability and have to be responsible for all the decisions they made. They are of themselves, and they only write about themselves in this conclusion without being ashamed, in fact, by shutting their eyes on all other judges, but are covered mainly by European conventions, which were then the basis in the European Court of Justice for the annulment of the vast majority of the sentences they have adopted by those judges whom they defend. And we've finally come to the conclusion that if we don't give God, we can undo the inviolability of the judges -- it can deprive Ukrainian citizens of their right to justice and to defend their interests in the courts. Do not worry about Ukrainian citizens as soon as you remove from the judges the inviolability of these rights and possibilities will be increased, because the impunity of the nine thousand Ukrainian judges gives rise to the disgrace that we have now and before Europe we simply have nowhere else to hide our eyes in Sirca for every court decision. Dear colleagues, the solution to this issue in this area, which is proposed, is not a solution, it is an attempt to legitimize the Constitutional Court's decision to do so.
ParlaMint-UA_2013-05-14-m0.u102	Let me finish.
ParlaMint-UA_2013-05-14-m0.u103	He has no authors, his author, the Constitutional Court. We need to reject it again by introducing the same bill and trying to convince the entire room that we can't do any selective things about inviolability, because it's our sacred duty to read your re-election programs.
ParlaMint-UA_2013-05-14-m0.u104	National MP Oleg Lazko, please.
ParlaMint-UA_2013-05-14-m0.u105	Oleg Lazko, Radical Party. My colleague Knyazevitch finished his brilliant speech with the words "read your pre-election programs." So let's read it. "Our Ukraine" program, "rested in God," but. There's a lot here, the Ukrainians won't let me lie about what they went to the election with? We'll cancel the MP's immunity. What year was that? Give God your memory. 2007 It's been six years. Where's our Ukraine? He's not with Yushchenk, the shopkeepers are busy. And the touch is what it used to be. And those who screamed the most to undo the intactness and walked in the first five sit here with this in touch. So the question of parliamentary immunity is rubicon, it's white people and black people. There's nothing to touch. You're a white man. There's no touching. And if there's any in touch, commit crimes, walk around, bully, rob people -- and like "goose water," because that's where he's sitting. Vladimir Vasilovich, when the MPs are not touched, there is a two-thirds change in the composition of parliament. You're running oligarchs and businessmen today who go to parliament for one thing -- lobbying their own business and for being untouchable. Am I telling the truth or the lies, the ones who laugh? So the businessmen are laughing, the oligarchs. What are they laughing at? Because they make so much money here that a simple person in ten lives can't make enough money. That's why they need to be touched. Therefore, the integrity of the deputies should be removed. But the same thing, and it's pretty obvious, there's got to be an end to the in touch with both the President and the judges. And when my respectable colleague Pisarenko refers to the findings of the Constitutional Court. Valerius, there is a correct truth that every person in Ukraine knows: there is no independent Constitutional Court in Ukraine. It's not the Constitutional Court, it's what it's gonna do. I'm okay with it!" He used to be a second term instead of a third term, he illegally changed the Constitution in 2009, and today he defends the President and the judges. Who is he protecting from? It protects people. That is how you feel that even touching yourself will help you when the people carry you out to the villas. And you don't hide for any intrusiveness, and therefore the intrusiveness must be removed from all: the President and the judges and the MPs. That's enough! This is where the caste of the untouchables were made. In Egypt, by the way, the untouched caste was the lowest caste. And today you think you're an elite. You're not the elite, you're the woe. In India, I'm sorry, they're tipping. You're an elite, because you've led the people to the pen, robbed the country, and covered up with the touch. Shame on you!
ParlaMint-UA_2013-05-14-m0.u106	I'd like to invite you to the floor of Hanna Herman, National Deputy.
ParlaMint-UA_2013-05-14-m0.u107	Dear friends! In this room, the slogan was, "Take out the parliamentary immunity!" has been brought all over Ukraine and has been accused on many occasions by those deputies who do not want to take away the parliamentary immunity from being undemocratic, of being contrary to the people and so on. And now there are other documents, now as purely Ukrainian, John sneezes at Peter, Peter sneezes at John. If the MP's touch is removed from the President, then we'll take it off. But let's start with ourselves, as normal, honest people do, let's give up the MP's touch, let's take the first step, let's show the people that we don't contrast ourselves with ordinary ordinary citizens, we live under the same conditions as all people. And then we will step by step to pursue other things, as we believe, can be just. So if we really want to be equal to our people, we today have to take away the parliamentary immunity. And then we're going to realize that blowing up monuments is a crime, that putting up fences is a crime, that not allowing people to choose their language or their faith is a crime. Then we will realize that we are responsible to civil society as all are responsible. So let's start with ourselves, let's give up this disgraceful stamp that's on us: "untouchable." Let us set a good example for society, and we will continue to follow the course of the process. Thank you for your attention.
ParlaMint-UA_2013-05-14-m0.u108	Freedom Union, National Deputy Pankevitch. Miroshenko Igor, please.
ParlaMint-UA_2013-05-14-m0.u109	Please give me the word of Peacekeeper.
ParlaMint-UA_2013-05-14-m0.u110	Please.
ParlaMint-UA_2013-05-14-m0.u111	Ladies and gentlemen, I thank my colleague Herman for telling me the truth about why they are going to film parliamentary immunity: for the language that a person in the Ukrainian State today is practically unable to speak; yes, for the monuments that are illegally standing in the territory that the churches are renting where they were; yes, for the fences that we filmed to make the citizens feel that the MPs are touched can be touched. I want to say that today the MPs who were chosen by the people, not buying seats on the lists, not making promises, not buying mandates in the districts, they're touched because they're talking to voters, they're driving public transportation, they're meeting in the districts when some MPs are resting on the islands. So we don't need to be touched by the MPs that you're going to cancel. But we know what country we live in. Today it is the state of one man’s regime, which sits on Banks, his name is Yanukovich. Today, by removing only parliamentary intrusiveness, and I would like to point out first of all to all our opposition colleagues, we must remember that the second step that Mrs. Herman is talking about here will not be, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no. You don't have to buy a party of regions. Today, we speak consistently and in principle: undoing the intrusiveness for all. But that's not gonna happen. We need to undo the MP's in touch, MPs. What do we need it for? We need it in order to represent the interests of our constituents. Including during the election campaign, they could go to any district and monitor the election results. But forget election control when the MP's immunity is lifted. You'll all be sitting at the prosecutor's desk, giving a witness while the bandits steal people's voices! We know that this inviolability today allows the police to break the MPs, pack them in car washes, and take them into interrogation raids. So this parliamentary immunity that we're talking about today gives minimum powers to protect the people who chose us. Let's be honest. Okay, the president was picked there. Did they choose judges who were given the baroque shoulders today to be untouched by Yanukovic? No, no, no, no, no! Likewise, the untouchable Janukovich, who is untouchable, gives to the judges the gift of serving him rather than being in the interest of the citizens! So the All-Ukrainian "Freedom" union has a fundamental position. Stop voting for butaphoric laws! Let us undo once and for all the intrusiveness of the President, the judges, the people's deputies and everyone. But let's do it at the same time! Glory to Ukraine!
ParlaMint-UA_2013-05-14-m0.u112	One minute, National Deputy Rudzkowski. You've got one minute and time's up.
ParlaMint-UA_2013-05-14-m0.u113	Dear National Deputies! First of all, I'm talking to colleagues who have been elected in major districts. We all went to the election together. In fact, at each other's meeting, we were told, "Replace the MP's integrity! We don't want people to go to the Supreme Council for the same purpose -- to protect themselves from the criminal responsibility for the crimes they committed during their financial instruments. And in order for us to have more in the Supreme Council only deputies who will work on the laws. Who will improve our legal system, which will primarily care for people, not their interests, and protect themselves from criminal responsibility. I'm convinced that now that we're going to a meeting, questions arise for us when you cancel your pension reform and when you do.
ParlaMint-UA_2013-05-14-m0.u114	Finish up.
ParlaMint-UA_2013-05-14-m0.u115	When you cancel the MP's immunity. Today, we must personally vote in favour of this issue. And I appeal to the Head of the Supreme Council to have this vote printed in our parliamentary newspaper so that Ukrainian citizens can see who promises and who fulfills their own obligations. Intactness should be eliminated and removed from the deputies by voting today.
ParlaMint-UA_2013-05-14-m0.u116	Thank you. For the conclusion of the committee, please.
ParlaMint-UA_2013-05-14-m0.u117	Dear colleagues, I will try to stop the political discussion. And I'll go back to the committee's proposals. I want to read again under the transcript what the committee is proposing to vote. We now propose, without passing the law, to correct those things that the Constitutional Court has observed about unconstitutionality. To do that, we need to vote on the committee's proposal -- draft decision (registration number 0977-p), and in the draft decree, replace the deadlines, that is. Part one is the submission of proposals and amendments to the bill by 31 May 2013. Working with the relevant committees on proposals and amendments to the bill until 14 June 2013. Submitting to the Ukrainian National Deputies the documents provided for in part three of article 150 of the Supreme Council of Ukraine’s Rules of Procedure, on 18 June 2013. And a draft bill was held at a plenary meeting of the Supreme Council of Ukraine on June 20, 2013. Please put to the vote just such a proposal by the committee to change the terms of the committee's consideration of the bill and put it to a vote. Thank you.
ParlaMint-UA_2013-05-14-m0.u118	Ladies and gentlemen, we are moving on to the decision-making process. For the execution of draft Law No. 0997. The 0977 Committee proposes to accept the Supreme Council's ruling and with the terms it called. Proposals by May 31st for a bill to be submitted. Next. The committee works until June 14th. The MPs are given materials by June 18 and June 20 to consider this law. That's why I'm putting the vote to a draft resolution on the bill, the number of Decree No. 0977/P. People's deputies, please vote. [[12:11:51]] For 190 Against the 7, held – 121 did not vote – 83. The factions, please. Region Party 150, Parenthood 1, Vitalia Calla-1, Freedom-1, Company 30, non-fractional-8. Therefore, the decision to proceed with the approval of the previous bill is considered inadmissible, the law. That's why we have 12 hours of 12 minutes. In 30 minutes at 12.40 we'll continue our work and then I'll give you the right word for a replica.
ParlaMint-UA_2013-05-14-m0.u119	Yes, Your Honor, we continue our work. I promised to give the word to Mr. Nattweichenko, a minute to reply, and we will consider the matter further.
ParlaMint-UA_2013-05-14-m0.u120	Thank you, Mr. Head. I would like to contact all the national MPs who have not yet finished their brief recess, with the following. We demand, the Vitalia Call faction, that the integrity be abolished regardless of the positions of the past, of today or of the future. Then we demand and submit bills and propose to all the people's deputies, all the factions represented in the Supreme Council and the independent deputies to support the abolition of the inviolability and privileges of the State budget from the people's deputies, from the judges, regardless of the term of election, and from the President of Ukraine. Such a bill is proposed to be introduced, not simulated, and in the Supreme Council to consider it and vote in favour. Thank you for your attention.
ParlaMint-UA_2013-05-14-m0.u121	Thank you. We move on to a re-examination of laws returned with proposals from the President of Ukraine. And the Ukrainian Act on Amendments to Ukrainian Laws on Architecture and on License of Certain Economic Activities, with proposals by the President of Ukraine from 26. 10th - 2012 That is why I invite you to the report of the President of Ukraine on the Supreme Council of Miroshnicka Yuri Romanović. There is a suggestion to consider a reduced procedure. Please. [[12:48:16]] For-98 Please report, two minutes.
ParlaMint-UA_2013-05-14-m0.u122	Thank you, Vladimir Vasilovich. Dear voters, dear colleagues! Adopted by the Supreme Council on October 2, 2012, the Act on Amendments to the Laws of Ukraine "On Architecture" and "On Licensing Certain Economic Activities" (registration number 0983) cannot be signed by the President of Ukraine for such reasons. First. The law introduces the licensing of economic activities in connection with the development of urban documentation as well as search and design of objects in the fourth and fifth categories of complexity. The President of Ukraine believes that the proposed standards complicate the permit system in the area of construction, which is not in line with the principles of the operating of the permit system in the field of economic activity, in particular with regard to the reduction of the level of government regulation of economic activity, as well as with the main objective of deregulation reform, a substantial reduction in the number of permits to remove barriers to business development. Secondly, the provisions of the Law concerning the definition by the Cabinet of Ministers of the order of licensing of economic activity cannot be supported. According to the Basic Law on the licensing of business activities, the characteristics of licensing of certain types of business are defined at the level of the law. Therefore, the delegation of such powers of government cannot be supported. The Head of State believes that the procedure for licensing the relevant type of farming activity, taking into account its characteristics, should be clearly defined in the special law. In this regard, I ask that you support the proposals made by the President of Ukraine to this law. Thank you for your attention and please put to the vote the proposal of the President of Ukraine.
ParlaMint-UA_2013-05-14-m0.u123	Have a seat. I give the floor to the First Deputy Head of the Committee on Construction, Urban and Housing and Housing of Zubko Hennaday Grigorovich.
ParlaMint-UA_2013-05-14-m0.u124	Good afternoon, dear fellows! Good afternoon, Your Honor! In a proposal from the President of Ukraine, adopted on October 2, 2012, by the Supreme Council of Ukraine to amend the Ukrainian Law on Architecture and to license certain types of economic activity, it is suggested that the licensing of agricultural activities is linked to the development of urban documentation, as well as to sophisticated works, design, and construction of objects. I emphasize that the third, fourth, and fifth groups of complexity are excessive government regulation of construction activities. But the committee met three times on this subject, three times we discussed the matter. And this is a very important question, why? Because it was the third category of complexity that came into this bill. So just to be clear, the third category of complexity today falls under objects that are being built: 9-story buildings, 24-story buildings. And in practice, the introduction of a certification system for certain types of architectural activity allows one person to design such buildings. This is the first time. Secondly, if you take urban activities and design construction, one person can actually design housing today. So the committee disagrees with the fact that the third category falls. The third category of complexity falls into this list. That is why we propose today, in accordance with article 135 of the Ukrainian Rules of Procedure, that the Supreme Council of Ukraine send this Law for further work. The Chief Legal Authority of the Supreme Council, in its conclusion of March 21, 2013, also pointed out that the bill is subject to a rejection that contradicts the Constitution of Ukraine. Therefore, the position of the committee is to amend this law in accordance with article 135 of the Ukrainian Act on Rules of Procedure of the Supreme Council. Thank you.
ParlaMint-UA_2013-05-14-m0.u125	Thank you. Is there a question for a co-conspirator? None. Is there a need for discussion? The committee. There is no discussion. In accordance with the Rules, after the report and the co-reports have been completed, I am asking questions about the voting of the proposals proposed by the President of Ukraine. There's no discussion, sit down. Yes, amendment 1. You've got it. The MPs already have some repairs? She's been rejected by the committee. I'll bet you a vote on the committee's proposal. I'm putting an amendment to vote number 1 of the President of Ukraine. Please vote. [[12:54:45]] For-182 Against 44, held – 55, not a vote – 108. The decision is not taken. Yes, the vote is amended by number two of the President of Ukraine. People's deputies are asked to determine by vote. [[12:55:20]] For 193 Against 37, held – 67, not voted – 96. The decision is not taken. Amendment 3 of the President of Ukraine is put to the vote. People's deputies, please vote. [[12:55:49]] For 196 Against 43, held 63, did not vote 92. The decision is not taken. And the final amendment to the 4th President, please vote. [[12:56:18]] For a hundred and Against 40, held – 70, not voted – 92. The decision is not taken. I'll bet you a vote on the committee's proposal. Ukrainian Act No. 0983: Amendments to Ukrainian Act "On Architecture" and "On Licensing Certain Economic Activities" with proposals by the President of Ukraine since 26. 10.2012 is to be sent to the committee for further work. People's deputies, please vote. [[12:57:18]] For 282 Against it, 1 / 1 It's been held up to 40. There was no vote. The 76th decision was taken. The law is sent to the committee. The factions. Region Party: 161, Fatherland – 46, Vitalia Klicka – 34, Freedom – 0, Company – 27, Postfaction – 14. Submitted for consideration by the President of Ukraine (registration number 0985) "To amend some Ukrainian legislation on inheritance formation" with proposals by the President of Ukraine since 06.11.2012. On the Conciliation Board, we agreed to postpone consideration of the matter. That's why I'm taking it. The Conciliation Council made a decision. Please, just a minute. Please.
ParlaMint-UA_2013-05-14-m0.u126	Oleg Lazko. Dear Vladimir Vasilovich! First, the Conciliation Council cannot make decisions for the Supreme Council. If transferable, let the Supreme Council decide. And secondly, I want our voters to know which bill is being passed. It's about making an inheritance. This bill was adopted before the parliamentary elections last year, millions of Ukrainian citizens demanded the adoption of the bill. People in villages can't make an inheritance, they have to pay thousands of dollars for houses that cost three cents. And that's why I think that Parliament needs to look at this bill and allow, first and foremost, the peasants, the poor people, to form an inheritance. Because a man has lived his whole life in his house, built that house for his money, and today, to turn him into a grandfather, he has to pay 10,000 for his services, and so on. Parliament must answer that question. An inheritance must be formed in silage, and people should pay less in general.
ParlaMint-UA_2013-05-14-m0.u127	Thank you. That's why we want to, and I'm putting it to a vote now, because the committee is making a proposal to send for work. In order not to overthrow this law, there is a proposal. I'll put it to a vote. One minute. The Freedom Union. Who? Pankevitch. Please.
ParlaMint-UA_2013-05-14-m0.u128	Dear Mr. Head! Deputies! We are considering a law that really has a direct bearing on millions of people in Ukraine -- people who don't have money for extremely expensive notary services today. If something was decided by the board in agreement, we want to know why we have to endure today. Let the representative of the committee speak, let him argue what the point of the problem is, and then we'll figure it out. You can't just take it off and translate it into a long box. In this regard, we are approached by a great many voters. Therefore, we insist on considering the matter today. Thank you.
ParlaMint-UA_2013-05-14-m0.u129	Please, Miroshnichenko, representative of the President.
ParlaMint-UA_2013-05-14-m0.u130	Dear colleagues! The point is that the documents prepared by the Supreme Council Secretariat for the Conciliation Council are informative. The Conciliation Council approves the decision to form the agenda during plenary weeks. So speak or accuse the Head of the Supreme Council.
ParlaMint-UA_2013-05-14-m0.u131	Please finish the dates.
ParlaMint-UA_2013-05-14-m0.u132	To accuse the Head of the Supreme Council of referring to our collective decision on the Conciliation Council is probably not correct. As for the arguments, I think they can be cited. But I would like to point out that the laws that the President had promised and given his arguments should be dealt with and dealt with emotionally. So if we're talking about processing, let's do it better than we're going to reject intelligent arguments. Thank you.
ParlaMint-UA_2013-05-14-m0.u133	One minute, Vladimir Mikhailovich Litwin. Please. And we'll make a decision.
ParlaMint-UA_2013-05-14-m0.u134	Dear Vladimir Vasilovich! Dear colleagues! This law is very sensitive. I will remind you again that during the election campaign, people were promised solemnly by all political forces and candidates for a simplified system. That a person who has spent his life building a house in a rural area will not pay up to 10,000 for an estimate of property. The president of Ukraine made good comments that would improve this law. And obviously, these proposals of the President must be taken into account by the representatives of asset assessors in appeals to each national MP. And make the right decision. If there are insurmountable circumstances, they may need to be mentioned. But this is a decision that needs to be made. He is awaited by literally all humans. Because in the country, people die especially. And they want to tell their children, their grandchildren, what they've been creating throughout their work life. Don't pay those who live by the principle, "We don't sow."..
ParlaMint-UA_2013-05-14-m0.u135	Let me finish. We're done. Dear colleagues! The Conciliation Council made a proposal. That's why I don't vote. We'll work a day or two, and this Sunday we'll consider this bill. The Ukrainian Act on Amendments to certain Ukrainian legislation on communications regulation is under consideration, with proposals by the President of Ukraine since 14.08.2012 (No. 0991). Please, Yuri Romanovich. We're going to take a brief look at it? Agreed, let's do it. Report. But you're not at the rally. Sit down. Please report.
ParlaMint-UA_2013-05-14-m0.u136	Thank you. Dear voters, dear colleagues! The Act amending certain Ukrainian legislation on communications regulation (registration number 0991) adopted by the Supreme Council on 5 July 2012 cannot be signed by the President of Ukraine for such reasons. The Act provides for the completion of the Law on the Free System in the Field of Economic Activity by a new provision whereby the issuance of documents of a permissive nature in the field of telecommunications and the use of radio frequency resources by Ukraine will be governed by the specified law, taking into account the characteristics set out in the laws on telecommunications and the radio frequency of Ukraine. It should be noted that in accordance with the Radio Frequency Act of Ukraine, import licences from abroad for radio-electronics and radiation devices are issued to state-owned computing companies called the Ukrainian National Radio Frequency Centre. Thus, it is proposed that the designated state-owned enterprise be recognized as an organ in the field of radio spectrum use in Ukraine. According to the head of State, the proposed changes do not correspond to the basic Law on the Free System of Economic Activities, which defines the authorities as executives, national colleges, and local governments. This exhaustive list does not include state-owned enterprises. So the reference in the law to the specific provisions of the Radio Frequency Resources Act of Ukraine to the issuance of documents of a permissive nature in the field of radio spectrum use of Ukraine is unacceptable. Please support the proposal made by the Head of State to ensure that our laws are of good quality are in line with the course of reform and the interests of our citizens. Thank you for your attention.
ParlaMint-UA_2013-05-14-m0.u137	Is there a question? You don't? None. From. The report by the head of the Transport and Communications Subcommittee of Ponomarov, Alexander Sergiyovich, please.
ParlaMint-UA_2013-05-14-m0.u138	The Honourable Head, Honorary Fellows, the Committee of the Supreme Council of Ukraine on Transport and Communications at its meeting on 10 January 2013, reviewed the President’s proposals for amendments to some of the Ukrainian legislative acts on communications regulation (Registration No. 0991) (since December 12, 2012) which remained pending the sixth call of the Supreme Council. The main scientific and expert administration of the Supreme Council of Ukraine concludes that the President's proposal is one that deserves the support of the Supreme Council of Ukraine. The Committee considers it appropriate to recommend that the Supreme Council of Ukraine support the proposal. At the same time, taking into account a letter dated 30 January 2013, the Committee notes that on 7 January 2013 the Ukrainian Law on Amendments to Certain Legislative Acts of Ukraine concerning the Delimitation of Powers of State Authorities in the Field of Natural Monopolies and in the Field of Relationship became effective, as of 7 June 2012, one of which is identical to the first section of Bill 0991, in part to the first part of the first part of Article 148, marking 5 of the Code on Administrative Offences. So this is already a legal issue. In addition, according to a letter from the Supreme Council of Ukraine's Chief Legal Authority under the rules of law proposed by Law 0991, amendments cannot be made to part one of the first article 148, marked "5" of the Ukrainian Code on Administrative Offences. Because this part no longer contains the right words. For this reason, paragraph 1 of Bill 0991 is proposed to remove the duplicate; to change the title of the bill to the Act of Ukraine to amend certain laws of Ukraine concerning the settlement of the communications sector. Please support the committee's proposal and adopt a bill that takes into account the President's proposals and the proposals made on the basis and in general. It's a technical question. Please be supportive.
ParlaMint-UA_2013-05-14-m0.u139	Thank you. Have a seat. Ladies and gentlemen, the President's proposals are taken into account by the committee. The Committee proposes the adoption of the Ukraine Act as a whole (No. 0991) on amendments before. [[B in m in s a l in]] Corrections are out of the question. [[B in m in s a l in]] The law has one amendment of the President of Ukraine. So there you go. Yes, please.
ParlaMint-UA_2013-05-14-m0.u140	Dear colleagues, there's only one proposal from the President. And it's that even a state-owned enterprise, but an enterprise can't be an organ. An organ of executive authority (central authority), or a college body, or local self - government body, may be an organ of discretion. I ask you to support this amendment and thus the law will enter into force. Thank you.
ParlaMint-UA_2013-05-14-m0.u141	I beg of you, the "Freedom" union.
ParlaMint-UA_2013-05-14-m0.u142	Anatoly Vitov, the All-Ukrainian Freedom Union. We've been listening very carefully to the President's Representative as we speak. And I now have a letter from the Association of Internetians of Ukraine, where they strongly oppose the adoption of this bill. We are all laws that we adopt, and we are likely to rule out the logic that this law should be used by humans, and we are certainly working for those subjects who will carry out that law. There are many contradictions in this law. For example, in this law it is reasonable to conclude that innovations that do not comply with the Act on Telecommunications in force. In the future, this may result in discrimination, restrictions on the rights of market subjects. The establishment of state control, which is now, I take it, the amendment has been removed, the limitation on the number of licenses to use radio frequencies that violate it.
ParlaMint-UA_2013-05-14-m0.u143	Let me finish.
ParlaMint-UA_2013-05-14-m0.u144	Let me finish. and may lead to the monopolization of the communications services market. And that's why we're proposing this bill not to support it.
ParlaMint-UA_2013-05-14-m0.u145	Thank you. I'm betting on the President's amendment, which is one amendment. People's deputies, please vote. [[13:13:22]] For 204 Against 41, held - 69, not voted - 69. The decision is not taken. Yes, I'm voting on the committee's proposal to adopt, in general, with the President of Ukraine's proposals in mind, a draft law. The Act (No. 0991) amending some Ukrainian legislation on regulation in connection with the proposals of the President of Ukraine since 14.08.2012. People's deputies, please vote. [[B in m in s a l in]] Veto overcoming: a decision will be made, the veto will be overtaken. Please withdraw from the vote. [[B in m in s a l in]] If the President of Ukraine's proposal to reject the law as a whole is not supported by the Supreme Council, the vote shall be taken with regard to the re-admission of the law as a whole. Passing the veto, I put it all together, so I put it to the vote, so what was it? That's why there's a proposal, honourable deputies, that's why the President's proposal is not accepted, so I'm putting the law in general without this amendment. And that's going to be a veto. Please vote. [[13:16:52]] For -6 The decision is not taken. [[B in m in s a l in]] Huh? All of it now? Without this amendment. There's a lot of suggestions, and they're all different. Please make an offer. Merchant, turn it on.
ParlaMint-UA_2013-05-14-m0.u146	Dear colleagues, of course, we are having a heated discussion, and we want the laws to be quality. And in this case, I propose, Vladimir Vasilovich, that we save time and that we ask the question, as we did in previous laws, the proposal to return to the committee for work. Having reduced the length of the road, we can re-admit the law in part four of the corresponding article of the Rules, but we will still come to the point of sending the law to the committee. So I'm going to ask you to make this proposal.
ParlaMint-UA_2013-05-14-m0.u147	Please, Martinyuk Adam Ivanovich.
ParlaMint-UA_2013-05-14-m0.u148	Dear Vladimir Vasilovich, distinguished colleagues! We are, practically. The head did the right thing, we went through two parts of the vote. So it's the President's proposal. If the President's proposal is not supported, the second action is to overcome the veto. It's been over, so it's not supported. If the first, the second, the third, is not supported, the law is applied in general. If the law in general does not pass without the President's proposals, but he has the right to a veto, then there is a fourth proposal for a recast. If a fourth does not pass, then the law rejects. So now, Vladimir Vasilovich, you're going to put it in line with 135 Part 4 on the adoption of the law as a whole, and then on the recast, if it doesn't go through in general.
ParlaMint-UA_2013-05-14-m0.u149	I am voting on the Ukrainian law (registration number 0991) "To amend certain Ukrainian legislative acts on communications regulation" without an amendment that was not supported in the session hall as a whole. I'll bet you a vote. Please vote. [[13:19:59]] For the 10th. Against 43, held – 126, not voted – 220. And there is a proposal: to amend the Ukrainian Law (0991) to amend certain Ukrainian legislative acts on communications regulation with the proposals of the President of Ukraine from 14.08.2012 for further work on the Committee on Transport and Communications. Please vote. [[13:20:51]] For 206 Against 40, held – 76, not voted – 83. The decision is not taken. The law is rejected. Let's move on. First reading. A draft Act (No. 2073) amending the Ukrainian Law on the Prohibition of Imports and Implementation in Ukraine of ethyl petrol and lead gasoline additives is being introduced on aviation fuel. Reported the head of the State Aviation Service, Anatoly Antonovich Kolysnik. Please.
ParlaMint-UA_2013-05-14-m0.u150	Dear Vladimir Vasilovich and distinguished national deputies! You are considering a draft Ukrainian Law amending the Ukrainian Act on the Prohibition of Imports and Implementation in Ukraine of Ethylene and Lead Gas Supplements on Aviation Fuel, introduced by the Cabinet of Ministers of Ukraine. The main purpose of the bill is to lift the ban on imports into Ukraine of aviation gasoline "Avgas 100 LL" for no more than a thousand tonnes during the calendar year before the introduction of alternative fuels certified in Ukraine. According to the manufacturer’s operating documentation, general aviation engines should operate exclusively on low-leaded aviation gasoline. The operation of such aircraft on any other fuel is a technical breach and in accordance with international agreements and standards in the field of civil aviation requires the prohibition of further exploitation. When this ban is introduced in Ukraine, aircraft with such engines are used because of the lack of proper petrol on conventional petrol, leading to the premature downfall of engines, an increase in their refusals, which pose a real threat to flight safety. It is necessary to determine that in European and SND countries, with the exception of Ukraine, small-scale aviation gasoline "Avgas 100 LL" is used without restriction. Please support the draft Ukrainian Law on Amendments to the Ukrainian Law on the Prohibition of Imports and Implementation in Ukraine of Ethylene Gas and Lead Supplements to Gas on Aviation Fuel. Thank you for your attention.
ParlaMint-UA_2013-05-14-m0.u151	Have a seat. Ladies and gentlemen, the procedure for discussion. What are we going to take? Huh? Let us now vote on the procedure. The summary procedure -- please vote on this issue -- is being introduced. [[13:24:52]] For 176 Against 39, held 54, did not vote 134. Decision taken. Please. I invite the head of the Committee on Environmental Policy, Environmental Management and the Elimination of the Effects of the Chernobyl Disaster to take the floor for a report. Irina Igorovna Sekh. Please.
ParlaMint-UA_2013-05-14-m0.u152	Respectable Society! The Committee on Environmental Policy and the Consequences of the Chernobyl Disaster at its meeting considered the bill. The need to adopt a bill, as stated in the explanatory note to it, is caused by the fact that the operation of aircraft with piston engines on any other fuel is a technical breach and in accordance with international civil aviation agreements requires the prohibition of their exploitation. The draft law proposes to allow the introduction into and implementation of aviation ethyl ethylene "Avgas 100 LL" with an annual quota of thousands of tons until the introduction of alternative fuels certified in Ukraine. I would like to remind you that since January 1, 2003, the introduction and implementation in Ukraine of ethyl ethylene and lead gasoline supplements has been banned by the Ukrainian Law on the Prohibition of Imports and Implementation in Ukraine of ethyl ethylene and lead gasoline supplements. The adoption of this law was primarily due to the need to fulfil international obligations – the 1979 Convention on Long-range Transboundary Air Pollution, which adopted a strategy for the gradual cessation of use of ethylene and the Protocol on Heavy Metals, which provided for the cessation of the use of petrol containing lead signed in 1998 by the Minister of Ecology and ratified in the next Supreme Council of Ukraine. A significant amount of air - polluting emissions, more than 700,000 tons of lead. About 10,000 tons of mercury per year have been recorded in the use of ethyl gasoline in Ukraine. The main scientific and expert administration of the Supreme Council of Ukraine has made a number of observations and believes that acceptance.
ParlaMint-UA_2013-05-14-m0.u153	Let me finish.
ParlaMint-UA_2013-05-14-m0.u154	The draft should be based on the findings of a specialized environmental expertise. However, it points to the need to give the bill the comments of the Ministry of Health and the Ministry of Economic Development. The Ministry of Health considers it inappropriate to announce changes to the law in force. Since the proposed changes will result in the release into the environment of 1,000 pounds [156 kg] of inorganic compounds of lead, which is a highly toxic substance of the first class of hazards. And when they enter the soil and water, they are included in food chains, which can lead to chronic poisoning. The Ministry of Health also says that ethyl gasoline has been banned in most countries of the European Union and the United States since 2000. The Committee on Environmental Policy is of the opinion that it is necessary to adopt this law as a basis. However, taking into account the conclusions of the Ministry of Health, taking into account the programme approved by the Cabinet of Ministers in 1999, on the progressive, indeed, reduction in the production of unleaded petrol, my personal position will refrain from passing the bill currently under consideration. Thank you.
ParlaMint-UA_2013-05-14-m0.u155	Thank you. Is there anyone who'd like to make a statement? Are there no wanters? None. Please sign up from factions for the performance. Schulga’s “Fatherland ” faction
ParlaMint-UA_2013-05-14-m0.u156	Please pass the word to Bondariev.
ParlaMint-UA_2013-05-14-m0.u157	Pass it on, please.
ParlaMint-UA_2013-05-14-m0.u158	Sadly, dear friends today are in such a situation that we are provoking the actual wrongdoing. Why? Because today the aircraft of this type that is using this fuel are in Ukraine, but unfortunately, there is no official import of this fuel. So let's face it. We must make sure that the state does not provoke citizens to break the law. We should still be able to use these techniques, but we should provide a separate list of tonnages that can be imported into Ukraine in a year. Therefore, the Transport and Communications Committee unanimously supported the bill and also invites the Supreme Council to support it. Thank you.
ParlaMint-UA_2013-05-14-m0.u159	Thank you. A party of regions, Glazunov.
ParlaMint-UA_2013-05-14-m0.u160	I ask you to give the floor to the People's Deputy of Butkovsky.
ParlaMint-UA_2013-05-14-m0.u161	Pass it on, please.
ParlaMint-UA_2013-05-14-m0.u162	Dear Vladimir Vasilovich, distinguished colleagues, Party of Regions, Butkowski. The introduction of the bill will allow for the first standardised level of flight safety. The second is to increase the number of airlines who want to stay in our country. The third is to promote international relations. The fourth will contribute to the development of our nation's infrastructure and the fifth will improve the conditions for the training of aviation personnel in both military and civil aviation. The use of this gasoline in Ukraine does not conflict with European legislation. This type of gasoline is the only uniform and widely used fuel for jets with jet engines. In addition, the aviation gasoline brand "Avgas 100 LL" meets all the standards and standards of the international class. The use of "Avgas 100 LL" aviation gasoline in Ukraine will certainly be more harmful than it would have been in full exchange for unleaded petrol, but unfortunately no issue has been solved in any country at this time regarding the transition of modern dusty aviation technology to unleaded petrol. Operation on any other fuel, breach of certified??? There are technical conditions for today. The non-admission of this bill will lead to the lack of personnel from civil aviation and military aviation, because the main users of airplanes and helicopters in this category are our schools. In my opinion, the adoption of the draft law is environmentally accessible and can be decided on as a basis and as a whole.
ParlaMint-UA_2013-05-14-m0.u163	Freedom Union, Sabia People's Deputy.
ParlaMint-UA_2013-05-14-m0.u164	The All-Ukrainian Freedom Union, Deputy Sabiy, 189 constituency, Krasilov. Taking into account the conclusions of the Ministry of Health and taking into account the conclusions of environmentalists, the faction of the All-Ukrainian Union "Freedom" will abstain from voting for this law. Thank you.
ParlaMint-UA_2013-05-14-m0.u165	I beg you, the Communist faction, Peter Mikolaiovich.
ParlaMint-UA_2013-05-14-m0.u166	Simonenko, the Communist faction. Dear colleagues, well, I'd like to address you on what we're discussing right now. If this is a question of the state, in view of the weights of the decision taken in 2003, are they not telling the truth to the end? It's about the fact that the faction of the Company has become known that the Prince of England is flying in on his jets, he doesn't have gas, so let's say we need to use that gasoline, so we need to decide how much gasoline is allowed. What are we talking about here? This is a temporary phenomenon of allowing them to fly through the territory of Ukraine in connection with their arrival. And put a dot on that. And here we tell each other God knows what. And it had to be said, from the very beginning, that the Cabinet of Ministers had to be honest about it, not do stupid things.
ParlaMint-UA_2013-05-14-m0.u167	The law is right there offering a thousand tons and no more. I think the Supreme Council will agree. Come on. Let's have a line.
ParlaMint-UA_2013-05-14-m0.u168	Again, Simonenko. Dear colleagues, well, I'd like to know which of the businessmen has bought a jet for personal flights since 2003? Raise your hand, please. What are we telling stories here?
ParlaMint-UA_2013-05-14-m0.u169	The discussion of this law is concluded. So prepare for the vote. I'm voting on the draft Law (Registration No. 2073) amending the Ukrainian Law on the Prohibition of Imports and Implementation in Ukraine of ethyl gasoline and lead gasoline additives" on Aviation Fuel. Take it as a base. On the basis and in general. Please vote. [[13:36:06]] For 290 Against – 1, held – 45, not voted – 65. Decision taken. The factions. Region Party 162, Fatherland - 50, Vitalia Klitka - 36, Freedom - 0, Company - 28, non-fractional - 14. A draft Act (registration 1117) on amending certain Ukrainian laws on the appointment and indexation of pensions is under consideration. How will we consider this question? Short cut? I therefore put to the vote: who, in order to deal with this issue under a reduced procedure, please vote. [[13:37:15]] For 178. Against 42, holding back 50, not voting 130. Decision taken. I invite you to speak to Deputy Minister of Social Policy Viacheslav Mikolaiovich Kolomiyec. Please.
ParlaMint-UA_2013-05-14-m0.u170	Dear Volodymyr Vasilovich, distinguished national deputies! The draft Law on Amendments to certain laws of Ukraine on the appointment and indexation of pensions is particularly proposed to improve the mechanism for the annual recalculation of pensions. The current pension raise formula this year excludes individual pension increases in the past year. Because of this technical imperfection, the pension of the vast majority of pensioners in 2013 remained at the same level as last year. Because in 2012 there was an improvement in working pensions according to the standards of legislation in force. The bill under consideration will help to remedy this disadvantage and will allow for the increase in pensions of the vast majority of pensioners. If the bill is approved, pensions will raise 12.4 million pensioners, expenses will amount to 2 billion 140 million dollars, and they will be budgeted in the Pension Fund for this year. In addition, the bill proposes to improve other pension laws, such as the inclusion of the period of maternity and maternity leave in the insurance scheme, the exclusion of earnings for the calculation of unemployment benefits, and the payment of pensions for the loss of a foster care provider to children during the period between the completion of schooling and the entry into another educational institution. Please be supportive.
ParlaMint-UA_2013-05-14-m0.u171	Thank you. Have a seat. Please turn on the microphone of the head of the Committee on Pensioners, Veterans and Disabled Persons Valery Mikhailovich Suškević.
ParlaMint-UA_2013-05-14-m0.u172	I apologize, fellow Members, the committee appointed by the bill discussed at its meeting on 17 April of this year. And what I want to say is that this bill really proposes to address the relevant issues, the mature issues of pension insurance, which are pretty important, I would say very important for our pensioners. It has been said that what is involved in the insurance period of maternity leave is the payment of pensions in connection with the loss of a breadwinner. But you know, I want to touch what was on the committee, what is most relevant to our pensioners today, which is the question of increasing pensions. And what I'm saying is, I'm sorry, Mr. Deputy Minister, this year you're nothing and no one's getting a pension, that's understandable. Because existing legislation today allows pensions to rise above 20 percent of the level of salary raised in order to actually update pensions so that they do not fall behind. Unfortunately, you don't do it as a government, and that's what the committee says. And what I'm saying is that if today's salary went up 15 percent, almost percent, then the pension was raised by 2.9 percent. So our pensioners are actually surviving, barely surviving today. And this mechanism that the law said today, yes, it might work sometime, but this year it won't work and it's not enough, it doesn't solve the main issue -- the question of what's affecting the increase in pensions in relation to their modernisation. And that's the question that I've been proposing in my own time in the bill in previous summonses. And we're going to be proposing again this year. Our committee supported this bill too.
ParlaMint-UA_2013-05-14-m0.u173	Finish up.
ParlaMint-UA_2013-05-14-m0.u174	. and proposes to accept, because there are some very relevant social aspects of this bill, to support it and to accept it as a basis and as a whole, so that these standards will work more quickly, which today at least support our pensioner and the socially vulnerable. Thank you for your attention and for your support.
ParlaMint-UA_2013-05-14-m0.u175	Desiring to discuss, please sign in. From factions. Freedom Union, Pankevich.
ParlaMint-UA_2013-05-14-m0.u176	Please pass the word to Edward Leon.
ParlaMint-UA_2013-05-14-m0.u177	Pass it on, please.
ParlaMint-UA_2013-05-14-m0.u178	Edward Leonov, the All-Ukrainian Freedom Union. Honorable MPs, citizens of Ukraine! Of course, criminal pension reform has placed millions of Ukrainian citizens at the brink of survival. Of course, what the government does is it's impossible to call social politics. When we talk about the Ministry of Social Policy, it's the Ministry of Anti-Social Policy, and it's proving and proving that in all its actions. But what's being proposed right now is, you know, such a meager, meager improvement in that terrible law that is in force today. So, of course, the faction "The All-Ukrainian Freedom Union" is going to vote in favour of this bill, but only because it's going to make at least a small improvement. But in fact, this bill needs substantial work. He does not answer the basic questions about how to settle the accrual of pensions, the fair number of pensions, as of today. The government has all the mechanisms in place to improve the social security of pensioners in Ukraine today, but it does not use them. This does not require the adoption of new laws — it simply requires that we begin to carry out our duties. This law simply allows us to use, as the ministries are telling us now, the two billion budget funds that have already been set up for this year. But we need to be aware that, above all, the budget allocated for this financial year is being stolen. They're ripped apart by billions and tens of billions. And this law, unfortunately, does not provide another mechanism to control the theft. We know that in this bill we also see the weakening of the social security of individual categories, of individual significant categories of our pensioners, including military personnel, of former military personnel who are retired. And we have to make substantial adjustments there, substantial remarks. We will support him, but we will improve.
ParlaMint-UA_2013-05-14-m0.u179	The Fatherland faction, Shulga People's Deputy.
ParlaMint-UA_2013-05-14-m0.u180	Just pass the word to Viacheslav Kirilenko.
ParlaMint-UA_2013-05-14-m0.u181	Please, Viacheslav Kirilenko.
ParlaMint-UA_2013-05-14-m0.u182	Viacheslav Kirilenko, Fatherland faction, Party "For Ukraine!" Dear voters, dear colleagues, well, the government has found about two and a half billion dollars to raise 12 million pensioners in half a country. In the last six months, let's look at all the reports of the Accounting Chamber, which is essentially an organ of the Supreme Council, which says how many billions of national bracelets are ineffectively and purposelessly used by various ministries and departments. The figure, if summed up, is 10 billion dollars away. And if it's in the last two years, it's 20 billion dollars. So if you just make an effective use of the funds that Parliament uses through the State budget here on various programs of different ministries, you can raise not half a penny as the government now proposes, but you can make a substantial allowance for working pensioners. I'm not talking about the mass thefts that take place all over the country on any budget program, starting with the sad Euro-2012 that no one's ever given an estimate, and not counting how many million pensioners we can provide. We could make sure that the Euro funds were used in a targeted way. The other one. The government does not introduce a bill to give one pension law to all pensioners in the country: and for nomenclature, sorry, past and present, and for workers who create gross domestic product. Why? And someone doesn't give the government instructions. He is afraid to make the same pension for all — both for officials and for simple pensioners. And the third. Here the reformers are big in the performances. And where is the promised second level of pension reform, from which the party started here, which had a pension allowance to make. None. So as little as possible, but support, we're going to vote for this.
ParlaMint-UA_2013-05-14-m0.u183	Finish up.
ParlaMint-UA_2013-05-14-m0.u184	Vote the "Fatherland" faction for the bill, but the government's actions in social policy are very unsatisfactory. I'm stressing that. Thank you.
ParlaMint-UA_2013-05-14-m0.u185	Party of regions, National Deputy Stoyan.
ParlaMint-UA_2013-05-14-m0.u186	Please give the floor to a professional on social policy from the Yaroslav Sukhoma Regional Party.
ParlaMint-UA_2013-05-14-m0.u187	Thank you, Alexander Mikolayovich. I'm the young Ukrainian people's deputies who want to be honest about social policy, and I'm leaving the present issue of the Facts newspaper on the stand. Please, you can take a read. It clearly states what were the shortcomings of the previous years, as discussed by Valerius Suškević, and that he had changed the government. The point is that this bill has been postponed and reworked following comments by the Committee on Veterans and the Committee on Social Policy and Labour, as injustice was committed in previous years. So it's for understanding. Every March 1st, each government compares the average salary in Ukraine with the increase in pension payments. Set the coefficient. If a person received a pension less than that in the previous year, then the pension is reviewed. Who will be touched by this census today. I'm surprised at the position of the profile committee, which I don't know, and I'm going to remind him that it's going to affect 350,000 pensioners, 500 black people, 900 ex-military personnel and over 30,000 workers who get a pension based on the Science and Technology Workers Act. Dear colleagues, as much as you want to swear, you can curse the question of improving the solidarity pension system, but the demographic is that we can only go one way, and I approve of the decision of the department of profile. Only evolutionary, gradually, on the basis of the growth of the basics of the national economy will we do what we all dreamed of and promised people: make pension payments, as they are all around the world, a reward for the fact that youth, health, beauty, all of his knowledge and skills he gave to society in due time, and society now compensates him with a meager pension – on you so that you don't die. So I think, and I want to support the proposal of a profile committee.
ParlaMint-UA_2013-05-14-m0.u188	Finish up.
ParlaMint-UA_2013-05-14-m0.u189	This bill should be adopted on both the basis and in general. There is nothing to be done, and we need to approve the government’s efforts to improve the calculation mechanism and make it fairer.
ParlaMint-UA_2013-05-14-m0.u190	Please, strike faction, Rosenko, two minutes.
ParlaMint-UA_2013-05-14-m0.u191	Paul Rosenco, Vitaly Caller's Faction. First question to the Head of the Supreme Council. There is the submission of the Prime Minister of Ukraine, which clearly states that the bill is to be reported to the Supreme Council of Ukraine by the Minister of Social Policy of the Royal Natalia Jurijovna. There's an official request from the Prime Minister. Why does the deputy minister report here, for example, to me I don't understand. Let us honor the Supreme Council of Ukraine. There's the Prime Minister's application, and the minister has to stand here and tell us the question. The other one. Now, we're talking abstract numbers. An improvement, a bill that is beautiful, adds to the pension. But let's do the calculations. Now, the deputy minister said, 12 million pensioners, with 2 billion dollars under the law. So let's figure it out. The price of this law, the supplement to each pension, is 10 bucks. I just want to remind you that your minister promised 4,000 dollars of pension to each pensioner. And in six months it worked only to change the law to a pension allowance of 10 dollars! Indeed. But there are other questions that Valeriy Mikhailovich Suškevitch said. Today's law allows the Cabinet of Ministers of Ukraine to conduct pension indexation without any decisions of the Supreme Council of Ukraine! It was March 1, and you were obliged to carry out such an indexation! No decision of the Supreme Council should have occurred to you. And the point is that they want to take the index anyway and do it not from March 1st, but from June 1st. Thus, by saving the funds of the Ukrainian Pension Fund. Thus, 12 million pensioners will not be legally eligible within three months.
ParlaMint-UA_2013-05-14-m0.u192	Finish it.
ParlaMint-UA_2013-05-14-m0.u193	The law provides them with an indexation of pensions. And this is not the first time! The same was true of the budget workers, whom you raised wages not since January 1, 2013, but of the Government’s decree of March 27, 2013. And for three months, teachers, doctors, budget workers did not receive their full pay. So it's obvious that the strike faction will support the bill. But we're saying one thing. The government today is not fulfilling its responsibilities. The government is oppressing social policy, the government is oppressing today's, all Ukrainian society. Thank you for your attention.
ParlaMint-UA_2013-05-14-m0.u194	Thank you. One last speech and we'll make a decision. Zybenko National Deputy, Communist faction.
ParlaMint-UA_2013-05-14-m0.u195	Thank you. Communist faction, head of the Ukrainian Veterans' Council, Peter Cibenko. Dear colleagues, respected citizens of Ukraine! The faction of the Company of Ukraine will vote in favour of this document. And it's not because we think he's solving all the pension problems. Unfortunately, it doesn't matter. I am absolutely convinced that the citizens of Ukraine, most of whom have worked for this country, for this nation, for 40 to 50 years, are to receive a much higher pension. But this is a step, let alone a small one, but in the right direction. And that's why we're going to support this document. One more thing I want to say about this bill. Ladies and gentlemen, I'd like to say that we've done some work with this law. What do I mean? I mean, we turned this bill into a government bill for further work, because the way it was originally submitted to the Supreme Council Hall.
ParlaMint-UA_2013-05-14-m0.u196	Give me a minute.
ParlaMint-UA_2013-05-14-m0.u197	In the way he was originally presented, he had no prospect of being accepted in this room. And that's why the very fact that we returned and processed this document made it a little bit better. Although I stress once again that this document does not address, unfortunately, all issues relating to pension reform. And I want to say it again. Dear colleagues, distinguished representatives of the government! In the pensions of Ukrainian citizens, it is necessary to work very seriously and to change the situation. Because we have to understand that the last vote on the abolition of pension reform has shown that a critical mass is being accumulated in the form of parliamentary votes ready to vote in favour of liquidation for the lifting of this so-called pension reform. So let me stress again, let's take this little step that there is, a chance to do it, and we can better solve the issues that we already have. Thank you.
ParlaMint-UA_2013-05-14-m0.u198	Thank you. Ladies and gentlemen, let's move on to the decision-making process. I am voting on draft Act (No.1117) amending certain Ukrainian laws on the appointment and indexation of pensions. The law has been completed. On the basis and in general. Please vote. [[13:56:18]] For 350. Against - 0, held - 0, did not vote - 49. The factions. Region Party - 164, Parenthood - 69, Vitalia Klicka - 34, Freedom - 35, Company - 29, non-fractional - 19. The morning session is closed. At 4 p.m., please go to the session room.
