ParlaMint-UA_2013-02-22-m0.u1	Good afternoon, distinguished national deputies, invited guests of the Supreme Council of Ukraine! I'm asking the deputies to prepare for registration. Turn on the "Race" system. [[12:45:54]] There were 346 national deputies registered. Honourable National Deputies, in accordance with article 83 of the Constitution of Ukraine, the second session of the Supreme Council of Ukraine on the seventh vocation declared open. [[The Hymn State Hymn of Ukraine]] Ladies and gentlemen, I will report to you the results of your nominal written registration. [[Applause]] If anyone shows up after the check-in, he'll come up, say I'm in the hall. I'm reading. From the Party, faction of the Party of the Regions. Not registered: Azarov, Baloga, Burjak, Hirschfeld, Hirschfeld, Zwania, Ivanyushenko, Ky, Kolesnikov, Kurovski, Lukyanov, Markov, Moskalenko, Povalij, Sigal, Tabusnik, Feldman, Chertkov, Arkallayev, Berezkin, Vreevski, Dobkin, Zviagilski, Kualzny, Kiwalov, Kulinić, Lebedev, Ljowocchina, Molotok, Ostapčuk, Polachenko, Soroka, Truhanov, Kraljov, Shenzev. The faction of the political party of the All-Ukrainian Union of Fatherland in the Supreme Council of Ukraine: Abdulin, Bondarev, Zenzerski, Kugel, Kupček, I give the floor. Hold on. Kupcak, Lucenko, Polochaninov, Skosar, Suškević, Shevchenko, Ariev, Danilov, Donec, Kupriyczuk, Lukyanczuk, Orobec, Senchenko, Stec, Tarasyuk The faction of the political party "UDA (Ukrainian Democratic Alliance for Reforms) Vitalia Klitka: Ginkka, Kaplin, Nastavajchenko, Paccan, Salvar, Dubnevich, Klitschko. [[B in m in s a l in]] Dear colleagues, dear friends, I told you, the results of a nominal written registration. So if I don't sign up, what do I have to announce, huh? Am I doing the right thing? [[Applause]] I'm going to register. Him and Rosenko. The All-Ukrainian Unity of Freedom: Osuhovsky and Pharion [[B in m in s a l in]] Tshulinsky's on his way, I sent him on his way. The faction of the Communist Party of Ukraine: Biyovka, Mihaylenko, Spirina, Marmazov, Simonenko, Topalov Postfaction: Dombrovsky, Zabotny, Palitza, Rybakov, Ževago, Mirimsky, Poshenko Please raise your hand, everyone will get to know you and tell you. Please, there is. Two, three, four. No, call it a last name, and I'll bet you're here. Zhavania. Ladies and gentlemen, let's make a deal. One of the speakers is yelling, and everyone's listening. Come on, write it down. All of them? Oh, Sleazy, thank God, there is. Chewchenko. You see, we'll have order, we'll work and we'll make all the decisions. Vitaly Volodymyrovich, sit down, we've seen it. Honourable National Deputies, on January 17, 2013, the Central Election Commission registered the National MP of the Ukraine of Mirno Ivan Mikolaiovich, elected on October 28, 2012, in a state-wide multi-member constituency constituency included in the electoral list of the Party of the Regions. In accordance with article 79 of the Constitution, Ukraine’s national deputies take an oath before the Supreme Council of Ukraine before taking office. And to make an oath, I invite you to the rostrum of the Ukrainian national deputy, John Mikolaiovich Mirnoj. Please.
ParlaMint-UA_2013-02-22-m0.u2	I swear allegiance to Ukraine, I pledge to defend Ukraine’s sovereignty and independence in all my actions, to ensure the welfare of Ukraine’s homeland and the goodness of the Ukrainian people. I vow to abide by the Constitution and the laws of Ukraine, to carry out my duties in the interests of all fellow countrymen. Do we have to sign?
ParlaMint-UA_2013-02-22-m0.u3	Thank you. Have a seat. Ladies and gentlemen, we have two questions to consider today. The issue of amendments to the Ukrainian Law on Rules of Procedure of the Supreme Council of Ukraine. Reported by the Head of the Supreme Council of Ukraine. And re-reading, the draft declaration on the implementation of Ukraine's Euro-integration aspirations and the conclusion of the Association Agreement between Ukraine and the European Union. Also reported is the Head of the Supreme Council. That's why I'm voting so we can look at these two issues at today's session. Please prepare for the vote, vote with your ballots, and then no one will go to court without writing me a statement. Vote for yourself. I'll put it to a vote, please. [[12:58:05]] For 342 For 342 people's deputies. There's no other way. He held on to one, didn't vote on five. They probably haven't come to the session yet, they don't know how to vote. Just 348. Decision taken. Deputies! The factions, please. Regional Party - 156, Fatherland - 82, Vitalia Klicka - 34, Freedom - 33, Company - 22, non-fractional - 15. Dear colleagues, recently since February 5, there have been very intense negotiations with the leaders of the parliamentary factions on how to organize the fruitful work of Parliament. We have all come to the conclusion that the blocking of Parliament's work cannot continue. It's a destructive thing where there'll be no winners or winners. The people of Ukraine will not forgive us for this, nor will our electorate. During the talks, various options for improving the Rules were discussed. But unfortunately, many of them were more and had this kind of political coloring, maybe they have the right to live, but before they are introduced, our committees need to work for the Rules Committee to work, to look at them in detail, to analyze them and to provide them with systems. Of course, there is no limit to improvement. But I would like to point out that the current Rules fully ensure that Parliament's legislative work is comprehensive in accordance with the requirements of the Constitution of Ukraine. We agreed that the system that is today in the Supreme Council, we tested it, it worked. But today we've asked the experts of the National Academy of Sciences of Ukraine to offer us a system that will allow only one MP to vote, no one will vote for a neighbor. They'll give us their proposals, the system itself, the cost of it financially when they can make it. So I'm going to make you an offer, I'm going to make this decision, we're going to make this decision, so that this year, from this session, or maybe if they don't, they're going to make a decision in the third session, and the system in the Supreme Council is going to work. All we need right now is the inescapable fulfilment by the people's deputies of the requirements of the Rules and the Constitution of Ukraine. Thus, we made only one article of the Rules. The materials are given to you. With the leaders of the MP factions, we decided on the issues that are being considered, and we voted in today’s session. We gave you the projects. The first question is about making changes to the Ukrainian Act on the Rules of Procedure of the Supreme Council of Ukraine. I would like to comment that the need for the adoption of the draft law is due to the need to take immediate steps of an organizational and legal nature to ensure that the Ukrainian National Deputies have continued to comply with the constitutional requirement for personal voting at the plenary meetings of the Supreme Council of Ukraine. The bill provides for a violation of the requirements for personal voting by a vote in favour of another national MP in the plenary meeting, and the consideration of day-to-day matters at his request is suspended. The chairman of the plenary shall establish the presence of the relevant national deputy in the Supreme Council Hall, and shall, in the absence of such a meeting, appoint a committee to remove the card of such a national deputy and transmit it to the chairman of the plenary. And there's a re-voting vote on the last vote. I would like to point out that the leaders of the MP's faction have discussed every detail of this bill very carefully and comprehensively. The bill is in the Rules Committee. So there is an offer: To adopt a draft law without discussion. And I'd like to ask you, can I put this question to the vote?
ParlaMint-UA_2013-02-22-m0.u4	Let's go to the vote. So I beg you, distinguished national MPs, please prepare yourselves. Put your hands down. Please prepare for voice. I'll give you the motive. Please prepare for the vote. I'll bet you a vote.
ParlaMint-UA_2013-02-22-m0.u5	Unlock the card. Please prepare for the vote. Attention! Attention, national deputies! I am betting on a vote to be adopted as a basis and as a whole on the draft Act amending the Ukrainian Act on Rules of Procedure of the Supreme Council of Ukraine. People's deputies, please vote. [[13:06:26]] For 339 Summary: 339. No, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no. It's a total of 350. Decision taken. Factions please: Regional Party - 156, Fatherland - 78, Vitalia Klicka - 34, Freedom - 33, Company - 22, Postfaction - 16. Thank you, people's deputies. Ladies and gentlemen, let's turn to the question of the Supreme Council of Ukraine's statement on Ukraine's Euro-Integration Desires. Is there a statement from the MPs? Is there a text of the statement? There have been many applications, so let me read a statement that we accept so that every national MP will know. "A statement by the Supreme Council of Ukraine on the implementation of Ukraine's Euro-integration aspirations and the conclusion of the Association Agreement between Ukraine and the European Union. The Supreme Council of Ukraine, taking into account that the European perspective of Ukraine is to become a united factor, around which the vast majority of the political forces are being consolidated, taking into account the importance of the Mission's activities of the authorised representatives of the European Parliament of Kwasnevsky and Cox, awaiting the positive results of the next summit "Ukraine-European Union", scheduled for 25 February 2013, and the Eastern Partnership Summit, scheduled for 28-29 November 2013, declares that it will, within its mandate, ensure the implementation of the recommendations for the signing of the Association Agreement between Ukraine and the European Union, as set out in the resolutions of the European Parliament and the conclusions of the Council of Europe, adopted on 10 December 2012 at the meeting of the Ministers of the European Union on the European Union Agreement for Association, as part of the European Union of the European Union, of the European Union of the European Union of the European Union of Governors, of the European Union of the European Union of the European Union of the European Union of the European Union of the European Union of the European Union and of the European Union of the European Union of the European Union of the European Union of the European Union of the European Union of the European Union of the European Union of the European Union of the European Union of the European Union of the European Union of the European Union of the European Union of the European Union of the European Union of the European Union of the European Union of the European Union of the European Union of the European Union of the European Union of the European Union of the European Union of the European Union of the European Union of the European Union of the European Union of the European Union of the European Union of the European Union of the European Union of the European Union of the European Union of the European Union of the European Union of the European Union of the European Union of the Europeans. It strengthens the adoption of legislation aimed at adapting the legislation of Ukraine and the legislation of the European Union, in particular those provided for by the relevant National Programme for the Adaptation of Ukrainian Legislation to the Legislation of the European Union, approved by the Law of Ukraine of 18 March 2004 No1629-4, as well as those in the area of judicial reform, criminal justice and electoral legislation, taking into account the recommendations contained in the final report of the OSCE Mission with observations on the elections and conclusions of the Venice Commission. The Supreme Council of Ukraine calls on the European Union and its member states, once the Ukrainian side has demonstrated decisive action and tangible progress in the three areas identified in the conclusions of the Council of the EU and will carry out the necessary internal procedures, to ensure the immediate signing of the Association Agreement between Ukraine and the European Union, providing for the possibility of the previous one before the completion of the process and ratification by all EU member states, of the application of individual provisions such as the creation of a deeper and inclusive free trade zone. Ensure the continued and full implementation of the Agreement between Ukraine and the European Union on a simplified procedure for the issuance of visas with a view to the realization of the right of citizens of Ukraine to freely move the territory of the European Union. Not demeaning their honor and dignity. Approval of the decision to move Ukraine to the final implementation phase of the action plan on visa liberalisation by the European Union for Ukraine, as well as implementation for Ukrainian citizens of the visa-free regime once the necessary conditions are met. Provide adequate expertise and financial support to Ukraine in the preparation and implementation of the Association Agreement, primarily with a view to adapting the economy of the State, the regulatory environment, to the functioning of a deeper and inclusive area of free trade with the EU. They signed this statement, the one I read you, the faction leaders: Jacinyuk, Dragnibok, Klitschko, Koshulinsky, Ephraim, and there are many deputies. So there is an offer without discussion to accept the application. May I put it to a vote? Sure. I read what the faction leaders signed. [[B in m in s a l in]] Ladies and gentlemen, I ask you to prepare for the vote. Please vote. I'm betting on a draft Supreme Council of Ukraine Resolution on Ukraine's Euro-Integration Desires for adoption as a whole. I'd like to make a general statement. As a basis and as a whole, accept. Please vote. [[13:15:12]] For 315 315 against 24, held – 4, not voted – 6. It's 349. Decision taken. The factions. Region Party - 149, Fatherland - 83, Vitalia Klicka - 34, Freedom - 33, Ukraine - 0, non-fractional - 16. The decision is made, and I congratulate you. The morning session of the Supreme Council of Ukraine is closed. The next plenary meeting will take place on Tuesday 5 March at 10 a.m. And in these days, I'm asking you to work on both committees and in my districts. Thank you. Good-bye.
