ParlaMint-BA_2010-07-28-0.u36346	Ladies and gentlemen of the House of Representatives, honored guests, I am opening the 82nd session of the Parliamentary Assembly of BiH's House of Representatives. Our regular guests, the chairman and members of the BiH presidency, the chairman and members of the BiH Council of Ministers, representatives of OHR, OSCE and other international organisations who regularly monitor the work of our home and representatives of certain NGOs were invited to attend the meeting. At the meeting, we also called on the Ombudsman for human rights of BiH, the chief auditor of the BiH Institutions Audit Office and the director of the BiH Gender Equality Agency to discuss the material in their jurisdiction. I welcome all present representatives and guests as well as representatives of public information funds. According to the service records, the session is attended by 32 MPs. The absence was announced by representatives: Milica Marković, Salko Sokolović and Zlatko Lagumdžija. Representative Jerko Ivanković Lijanović announced a delay. I find the session has a quorum for work and decision-making. Before we move to the agenda, we have one last question. Namely, the Central Election Commission is 26. Seven. In 2010, they submitted a decision to the House on the termination of the mandate of Sava Erić and the mandate of the next qualified candidate from the list of political parties SDS – the Serbian Democratic Party – which is Ljiljana Milićević. Ljiljana Milićević is 26. Seven. In 2010, she signed a declaration of acceptance of the mandate. Therefore, a new representative should make a solemn statement in order to take over parliamentary rights and obligations. I call upon Mrs Ljiljana Milićević to make a solemn statement. I invite you to repeat after me the text of a solemn statement according to the text you have on you. /PURPOSE
ParlaMint-BA_2010-07-28-0.u36347	DECLARATIONS/
ParlaMint-BA_2010-07-28-0.u36348	'I swear
ParlaMint-BA_2010-07-28-0.u36349	'I declare 2 NO ONE
ParlaMint-BA_2010-07-28-0.u36350	: that I will consciously behave my duties, Ljiljana
ParlaMint-BA_2010-07-28-0.u36351	Congratulations to my fellow MPs.
ParlaMint-BA_2010-07-28-0.u36352	Thank you very much. [[APLAuz]]
ParlaMint-BA_2010-07-28-0.u36353	Here, dear colleague Erić asked for a brief address before leaving, so we'll give him a chance to contact his colleagues.
ParlaMint-BA_2010-07-28-0.u36354	Dear Chairman, esteemed colleagues and colleagues, honored guests, I would really not talk about this case and this story right now to bother you, meaning what it was – it was, we are all aware of it, but I would not want anyone from this House to leave in this way that I am leaving and 3 I ask you to protect yourself in the future and those future MPs who need to represent the people and what has been promised and what has been said. What I can say for myself is I have no need, you all know, I wanted to be correct, to finish all my work the way it is best for this people and for this country and for all of us. The topics I had intended and wanted to implement were not active and I hope that the next assembly of Parliament or maybe when this four years are up, the time will come to run again and we will discuss only economic issues, which was both my wish and my goal. I thank you all for your cooperation and I wish you all a great deal of success by the end of this term. Those who run I want them to have a lot of success and to change the way they work and we expect for sure in the next four years better results than our colleagues who, if Bog did, will represent this country and themselves for the next four years. I congratulate my dear colleague on the election and I know she has a little time, but Ljilja was an experienced MP before, and I hope everything goes well. I wish you a lot of happiness in further work and that happiness follows you all these years and that we are friends and that we meet in some better situations. Thank you very much. [[APLAuz]]
ParlaMint-BA_2010-07-28-0.u36355	Here, I hope I share your thinking. I thank Mr Erić for his work at the Parliamentary Assembly of BiH so far, for his correct cooperation and for his good health and success in his future and professional and private activities. On the agenda, compared to the calls you received, we added: point 4. A request by MP Sefer Halilović to consider the Proposal for a Law amending the Law on the Central Bank of Bosnia and Herzegovina by a hasty procedure, in accordance with Article 127 of the Treaty on the Functioning of the European Union. Rules of Procedure; Point 8. Confirmation of the decision to refer members of Bosnia and Herzegovina's Armed Forces to the International Security Assistance Force (ISAF) mission to the Islamic Republic of Afghanistan; Point 21. Amendment to the conclusion of the House of Representatives at the 76th session, held 21. 4. In 2010, with the appointment of Deputy Minister of Security Mije Krešić to serve as acting director of the Agency for the Prevention of Corruption and Co-ordination of the fight against corruption. We've added: point 5. Proposal for a law on international and inter-entity road transport, with the Report of the Transport and Communications Committee; 4 Point 6. Proposal for a Law on Parliamentary Oversight in the field of defence, security and security affairs, with Opinion of the Joint Defence and Security Committee on BiH; Point 7. Proposal for a law prohibiting the wearing of clothing that makes it impossible to identify with the opinions of the Constitutional Commission and the Joint Committee on Human Rights, the rights of the child, youth, immigration, refugees, asylum and ethics; point 22. The first programme financing for public spending development policies, e) the loan agreement between Bosnia and Herzegovina and the International Bank for Reconstruction and Development – First programme loan for public spending policy, f) the agreement between Bosnia and Herzegovina and Herzegovina on amendments to the Treaty between Bosnia and Herzegovina and Montenegro on the mutual implementation of judicial decisions in criminal matters, (g) the Agreement on financing between Bosnia and Herzegovina and Herzegovina and the International Association for Development – a project to support social security and employment networks, (h) the Agreement between the Council of Ministers of BiH and the Government of the Federative Republic of Brazil on the partial abolition of visas, (i) the Agreement between the Council of Ministers of BiH and the Government of the Arab Republic of Egypt on the visa waiver of visas for the holders of diplomats and the Finance Agreements of the Republic of Macedonia, the Republic of Macedonia, the Republic of Macedonia, the Republic of Croatia, the Republic of Macedonia, the Republic of Macedonia, the Republic of Croatia, the Republic of Croatia, the Republic of Macedonia, the Republic of Croatia, the Republic of Macedonia, the Republic of Macedonia, the Republic of Macedonia, the Republic of Macedonia, the Republic of Macedonia, the Republic of Macedonia, the Republic of Macedonia, the Republic of Macedonia of Macedonia, the Republic of Bosnia of Bosnia of Macedonia, the Republic of Bosnia and the Republic of Macedonia, the Republic of Bosnia and the Republic of Macedonia, the Republic to the Republic to the Republic to the Republic to the Republic to the Republic of Bosnia and the Republic of Macedonia, the Republic of Bosnia and the Republic of Bosnia and the Republic of Macedonia, the Republic of Bosnia and the Republic of Macedonia, the Republic of Macedonia, the Republic of Macedonia, the Republic of Bosnia and the Republic of the Republic of the Republic of Bosnia of the Republic of the Republic of the Republic of the Republic of the Republic of Bosnia and the Republic of the Republic of Bosnia of Bosnia and the Republic of the Republic of the Republic of the Republic of the Republic of the Republic of the Republic of the Republic of Bosnia of the Republic of the Republic of the Republic of the Republic of Bosnia and the Republic of the Republic of Bosnia of the Republic of the Republic of the Republic of the Republic of the Republic of Bosnia and the Republic of Bosnia and the Republic of the Republic of Bosnia and the Republic of Bosnia of Bosnia of Bosnia of Bosnia and the Republic of Bosnia and the Republic of Bosnia of Bosnia of Bosnia of Bosnia of Bosnia of Bosnia of Bosnia and the Republic of I note that for agreements from g) to j) we expect the opinion of the Committee on Foreign Affairs. I'm opening a debate on the proposed agenda. Dear Representative Denis Bećirović.
ParlaMint-BA_2010-07-28-0.u36356	The esteemed chairman, esteemed colleagues and colleagues, distinguished media representatives and guests, I must say that I am once again uncomfortablely surprised by the fact that there is no four-year report on the work of the BiH Council of Ministers again on the agenda today. For three or four months now, we have been asking from the SDP Club for this point to come to the agenda, but for various reasons, it is trying not to bring this point here on Parliament's agenda. We've also received the opinion of the Constitutional Commission. Among other things, it states that the House of Representatives declared itself at its 81st session. I would like to remind you that the 5 House of Representatives only pleaded on the proposal for a conclusion, but not on the initiative. And then, in the last session, it was you from the College that said that the initiative was standing and that there was no need for that conclusion. We had a wish, since it hasn't been coming in three months on the agenda, to speed it up, but it's not accelerated. There's still this regular procedure. I am really asking a question here, except I suggest we put it on the agenda again: What is the problem with the fact that the BiH Council of Ministers reports to the BiH Parliament on its work? Is it possible in this House that we do not have a consensus on what has been done in these four years compared to what has been promised? What's the real problem? Does the Council of Ministers have nothing to present, has it completely failed its promises, so someone is afraid to even discuss it here today, or do you simply think that BiH citizens should not be accounted for for for these four years? Parliament and representatives in parliament have been elected by BiH citizens. This is the Council of Ministers' report to Parliament, when it reports to the citizens of BiH because the political will of the citizens is expressed here in the last elections in 2006. I cannot find any example in Europe that there is any country that is not ready to discuss what the government was doing to her in that mandate, in which it is current, at the end of the term. Here today you're burying us with various, largely, now pre-election proposals of law, initiative, etc., we're trying to homogenize people again, and we're not going to do an elementary democratic thing -- let's see what's been done for these four years, to draw the line. Mr. Chairman, therefore, I would like to shorten the story, once again - I think the elemental point of today's agenda or possibly the conclusion that this must be the point of the agenda of the next session. If this majority really wants to reject the fact that we are discussing the work of the Council of Ministers, that's a message to the citizens.
ParlaMint-BA_2010-07-28-0.u36357	Please submit your written proposal and the House will make its statement if you propose to supplement the agenda for today's session. And the Council of Ministers' report, as soon as it reaches parliamentary procedure, will be presented to the House. Business member Denis Bećirović.
ParlaMint-BA_2010-07-28-0.u36358	I mean, Mr. Chairman, we've been delivering three months in every form possible: the initiative, then the proposal for a conclusion, so I don't know what else to deliver?- I'm sorry. So, this initiative exists and there's no need to deliver it anymore, it's only a matter of will whether we want it or not. I will point out this question (if there is one more, and it seems, apart from this one session on September 1st), and then I will point out once again: if it does not insist on reporting the work of the Council of Ministers, it is a message to the people in this country.
ParlaMint-BA_2010-07-28-0.u36359	Replica, the esteemed First Vice-President, Beriz Belkić. 6
ParlaMint-BA_2010-07-28-0.u36360	Maybe more like an incorrect quote. Mr Bećirović, it is not true that we do not want and that we do not ask that everyone submits a report on their work, therefore, the Council of Ministers, and this Parliament, and all institutions, and it is not true that we are not democratically acting. So, you skip all the time the fact that every year we've had a report on the work of the Council of Ministers, every year. It's true we don't have for this year. I don't mind if we discuss eight, nine months' report, I don't mind summing up these three reports, so, but don't create an atmosphere and represent things that someone doesn't want to file a report and carry out their elemental commitment. You don't really need to. So there's no one against it, but the fact is that we had reports from institutions, including the Council of Ministers, on an annual basis.
ParlaMint-BA_2010-07-28-0.u36361	Replica, the esteemed representative Denis Bećirović.
ParlaMint-BA_2010-07-28-0.u36362	This used to be a businessman, this is the first replica. Well, I take Mr. Belkić's exposure as a message: trust Mr. Belkić, don't believe your eyes! Mr. Belkić, you know very well that there were no annual reports for the first two years. There's no annual report for this year. But the annual report isn't something that even a four-year report about making an inventory of what was said four years ago and seeing what wasn't done now, so that some new mandate might know what was going on in the next term. I really don't know what the problem is. The bottom line of my story is that for three or four months now, in various forms, this initiative has been running and that for three or four months, different forms have been found to keep this from happening on the agenda. That's a fact.
ParlaMint-BA_2010-07-28-0.u36363	Replica, the esteemed representative Lazar Prodanović.
ParlaMint-BA_2010-07-28-0.u36364	Replication to distinguished counterpart Denis Bećirović. You see, when you insist on both last time and this about the report on the work of the Council of Ministers, it should be said that the methodology, therefore reports at all on the work, was first adopted at the time when Mr. Zlatko Lagumdžija was chaired, but another fact should also be said that Mr. Špirić's reports, all of them accepted, were discussed in the Parliamentary Assembly and no Zlatko Lagumdžija. So, I don't see any reason why you'd be looking for something now that we've already considered, except because October 3rd is close so let's get some more... Thank you.
ParlaMint-BA_2010-07-28-0.u36365	Thank you. Replica, the distinguished representative of Sadik Bahtić. 7
ParlaMint-BA_2010-07-28-0.u36366	I have to replicate because he says these are pre-election laws... and with Mr. Bećirović purely pre-election, every session he entertains us with such conclusions pre-election. I just want to say that we MPs have a responsibility to our constituents, and his President, Zlatko Lagumdžija, has never been here. No BiH state anthem, and when it was 5-10 minutes, it didn't stand here. It is a major unemployed and is the most humiliating of its voters and citizens of the BiH state. Let's also see about the work of MPs, i.e. the lack of work, and the attitude of MPs towards this parliament, towards the state of BiH.
ParlaMint-BA_2010-07-28-0.u36367	Replica, distinguished representative Momčilo Novaković.
ParlaMint-BA_2010-07-28-0.u36368	Thank you, Mr. Chairman. Dear colleagues and colleagues, I really don't see any reason to open up a debate on this issue. A colleague has the right to propose this item of the agenda, and I support him in that. So, I think this Council of Ministers needs to settle accounts because there's nothing to lay down, because this Council of Ministers has been doing a disaster. But the parliamentary majority doesn't think so. The parliamentary majority considers this to be what has been done to the office so far. I don't see the need, so now you parliamentary majority are defending yourself by having no need to argue. Put it to a vote, we vote - we'll do it in a way likely as the parliamentary majority wants to vote, and that's how we finish this job. So, really now to open up some other questions within this agenda point doesn't make sense. If you are all satisfied with the work of this Council of Ministers, I am pleased with the work of this Council of Ministers.
ParlaMint-BA_2010-07-28-0.u36369	Thank you. Replica, distinguished representative Šefik Džaferović.
ParlaMint-BA_2010-07-28-0.u36370	Mr. Chairman, colleagues and colleagues, as already respected counterpart Bećirović said, this was on the Constitutional Commission. We have been informed and witnesses have been, have we, that Parliament has decided on the substance of this issue at the last session. Was that the conclusion, the initiative, that's how it was. We had to keep that in mind in our report. A colleague has the right to submit an initiative, and we have an obligation to declare it as Parliament. I have stood up to tell my colleagues that there are different views on the work of the Council of Ministers in the parliamentary majority and don't generalise things. There may be political parties who consider it all to be okay, but there are also political parties who think it was wrong and have a view of the work of the Council of Ministers. We're different from that, so we're not the same. And if we get a chance to talk about it, I'll talk about it at Parliament's session. Thank you, so much. 8
ParlaMint-BA_2010-07-28-0.u36371	Thank you. Replica, distinguished representative Mirko Okolić.
ParlaMint-BA_2010-07-28-0.u36372	Thank you, Mr. Chairman. Dear guests, honourable fellow Members of Parliament, is a replica of Mr. Šefik Džaferović in the sense that we cannot assess by Parliament the work of the Council of Ministers if we do not put that item on the agenda. When we put that item on the agenda, then we'll see if the Council of Ministers has fulfilled what he has promised or not. And this is how it's true that we have different opinions. We who believe that the Council of Ministers has failed to fulfil our obligations, and you claim that it is, and in fact none of you are right because it has no confirmation of Parliament. That's why it had to be put on the agenda, and then you with bigger arguments will probably come out and prove that it's all right or we'll go out with some of our arguments and let it know that the Council of Ministers didn't finish his job in the form in which he promised. I want to say that it was best that this could have been discussed in this House and then, by the power of the arguments, we would have come to whether or not this Council of Ministers passed the exam. And this way no one has the right to claim that the Council of Ministers has done what was promised on his part. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-BA_2010-07-28-0.u36373	Thank you. Next is Honored Representative Slavko Jovičić, Business Intervention.
ParlaMint-BA_2010-07-28-0.u36374	I can't apply for technical problems. I'd like technical services to allow me to report. [[Common discussion]]
ParlaMint-BA_2010-07-28-0.u36375	I'd like the technical service to assist the esteemed representative. You're right. Replica, distinguished representative Šefik Džaferović.
ParlaMint-BA_2010-07-28-0.u36376	Dear fellow Okoliću, you don't need to replicate to me. Last time, the SDA supported the initiative, namely the conclusion of Mr Bećirović. We will still support this today if Mr Bećirović decides to propose it in writing, and we want to discuss it and it was not the point of what I wanted to say. So I really didn't need your replica. That's it, thank you. 9
ParlaMint-BA_2010-07-28-0.u36377	Business, distinguished representative Adem Huskić.
ParlaMint-BA_2010-07-28-0.u36378	Thank you, Mr. Chairman. I don't know if my colleague Bećirović and others have read this record or if I'm misreading the 81st session minutes. But here, on the first page, like this, I will literally read: 'Denis Bećirović has proposed to include the point in the agenda: the initiative to adopt the conclusion that the BiH Council of Ministers is tasked with drawing up a report on the work of the BiH Council of Ministers for the period from January 2007 to July 2010. The chairman put this proposal to the vote. "For" were 17 MPs (from Federation of BiH 15, from RS two), "against" 10, and there were no "abstained". The chairman found there was no necessary entity majority. The House College immediately agreed and that no agreement had been reached in the second round of voting. In a second round with 19 votes "yes" (from Federation 15, from RS-4), six "against" (from Federation Two and RS Four) and four "abstained" votes, the House adopted Denis Bećirović's proposal and on the agenda as 13th point: an initiative to adopt a conclusion tasked by the BiH Council of Ministers to draw up a report on the work of the BiH Council of Ministers for the period from January 2007 to July 2010. 'years.' I don't know what my colleague's looking for right now. So, we've accepted, waiting for the Council of Ministers material. That's how I understood it. [[Common discussion]] Here, let someone else read it, enough of me.
ParlaMint-BA_2010-07-28-0.u36380	Okay, let's take a little break to apologize to each other and get on with it if we can. If you are not informed, I just want to remind you formally: the official pre-election campaign begins 3. 9th of this year under the provisions of the electoral law passed by this parliament. Well, you should know that. The next replica is the esteemed representative Slavko Jovičić.
ParlaMint-BA_2010-07-28-0.u36381	Dear Mr. Chairman, distinguished colleagues and colleagues, Honorable colleague Huskić read this in his first reading, here, I will read it in the second reading right away. Well, we're really masters to complicate. Here, if we got the report, what are we going to say about that report now? Well, as it's always imputed from the opposition, the position will praise the report because it's our Council of Ministers, praises to say that they already have the perception that it happened, and they'd criticise it as something. Well, let's make a decision one way or the other, there can only be two. The Council of Ministers worked extraordinaryly, and they say the Council of Ministers has done nothing. What are we gonna do? We're looking for a shift from the Council of Ministers, let's pick a new one. So that... it happens to us as a choice to keep this man from informing him that he lost his mandate and came here to do the handover. Why do we need this now that we have this session and possibly another one, and it's goodbye. Today we're going to lose, here we've already lost 10, what, 45 minutes, which we wouldn't have had any use for that report, if it were the best or the worst. What do we get? Here, we're looking for the chairman's shift. The chairman of the fall - the Council of Ministers falls. Let's pick a new Council of Ministers. When? By the time our commission meets to see if they meet, the OHR will give an opinion, so SIPA can check the candidates, so? What are we making things complicated? No, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, Last session, if nothing else, and if we had trouble saying friendly -- we were doing something, we weren't doing something, we couldn't anymore, we weren't doing this and we were finishing the story. What do we need this complication for, people? Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-BA_2010-07-28-0.u36382	The next is Remzija Kadrić, a respected representative.
ParlaMint-BA_2010-07-28-0.u36383	I thank you, Chairman. In the proposal for this session of the agenda, we have point 3. The request of the SNSD Club MPs to consider the proposal for a law supplementing BiH's criminal law under emergency procedure, in accordance with Article 127. Rules of Procedure, which propose a ban on the activities of the Wahhish and Selefian movement, shall be subject to paragraph 7. Proposal for a law prohibiting the wearing of clothing which makes it impossible to identify, which is known in the proposal to propose a ban on the carrying of stock, nibs, etc. I want to suggest one thing here. If the promoter has any other ideas and concerns Islam, Islamic movements, Islamic directions, that we can bring it together, that we can make one thematic session, and that we can discuss it, and that we can see whether the promoter has any other ideas from which we can understand that the promoter... has problems with Islam, that Islam, Islamic movements, directions, bother, so that, brother, this is an open discussion and that we can see who here forbids what, why, who bothers who, what is the cause, what are the consequences, what are the consequences of these certain considerations, reflections, phenomena and consequences. So, I suggest that we can discuss these things as a whole: maybe one special session, or we should involve this whole thing in one special topic and discuss these things without using these things, and in a certain way, question and insult Islam as a whole, its members and those who feel that way.
ParlaMint-BA_2010-07-28-0.u36384	Thank you. Replica, distinguished representative Drago Kalabić.
ParlaMint-BA_2010-07-28-0.u36385	Well, my replica will be on what Mr. Kadrić said, and I'll take advantage of the opportunity, and I haven't answered for the replica before, but here's the moment I take the word I'll try to be brief about Mr. Bećirović's point. 11 We have no objection, but I don't think it would make any sense if the Council of Ministers submitted a report to this assembly of Parliament. So they have the right to submit, this club over Mr. Bećirović split after that election so I don't know if they'd take it. Three MPs - six parties - are not required by the Council of Ministers to identify who he is and who he is to whom. Mr. Džaferović would burden us again with that story about Tarik Sadović and his poor work. That's what we heard, three sessions you've held us for that he's done it wrong and we've figured it out. You'd be using it again now, doing it badly, and the story's over, we'll see in some new mandate, no need. I mean, really... that those pangs on that former member of the Council of Ministers, who did what he did, did it badly, we got rid of him, and that's the story told. And I don't think that point would bring us anything, I mean, really, when we try to think productively. I thought when Mr. Kadrić reported that he would stand up defending this point where the army was sent to the Islamic Republic of Afghanistan. I thought you stood up, there was an attack on Islam and there to ask why Mr. Silajdžić was sending an army to the Islamic Republic of Afghanistan and who she was going to kill there and who she was going to beat, who she was going to shoot. _________(?) [[no microphone turned on]] Well, yes, but if he defends Islam. Mr. Radmanović – he probably doesn't care. But those who defend Islam - who is in Afghanistan? The Islamic State of Afghanistan. If the story is about protecting Islam and pulling the dots, that's the logical thing to do. Don't let people kill themselves for God's sake. _________(?) [[no microphone turned on]]
ParlaMint-BA_2010-07-28-0.u36389	Time! HONEY
ParlaMint-BA_2010-07-28-0.u36390	: (I am finishing), it is in the name of the point, in the name of the point of that agenda there is the word Islam. And in these three points, neither is it mentioned, nor will Bog be mentioned, and you should not impute it to me, nor to the SNSD.
ParlaMint-BA_2010-07-28-0.u36391	Business intervention, esteemed representative Vinko Zorić.
ParlaMint-BA_2010-07-28-0.u36392	I would ask you, the chairman, to unite all points of the agenda or to interrupt. First of all, you had to break up Remzi because he didn't suggest anything about the agenda. We could have ended this whole thing, Denis suggested, voted, people would say who he was. The gentleman answered about the agenda at the beginning of the session, there can be no word from Mr. Nanić. Let people suggest what they have to do with supplementing the agenda. We know that business, colleague Kadrić, is not possible to take down the agenda points. It can be opened when the debate is opened and when someone suggests the conclusion that something should be delayed, interrupted, downloaded, etc. Here, thank you.
ParlaMint-BA_2010-07-28-0.u36393	I thank you for your help, but I can't predict what one of you will say when you answer. The next line has a distinguished representative Momčilo Novaković.
ParlaMint-BA_2010-07-28-0.u36394	Here, Mr. Chairman, part of what I was about to say was taken from me by Mr. Zorić. I think that indeed some colleagues quite unnecessary within this item of the agenda are entering the already selected agenda points, i.e. those that have passed the procedure. Perhaps it is good for my colleague Kadrić to report for some reason because I did not know until now that the Wahhabi movement, i.e., is equal to Islam. I thought Islam was much more, much more complicated than he said, and if we had developed a debate then we would probably come up with very interesting knowledge of Islam itself than all of us sitting here. But I don't think we should really have this debate today. I even think it would be best if half of this agenda wasn't on the agenda, but unfortunately they met the points of all the conditions, past the commission phase, and we'll probably have a very interesting session today. 13
ParlaMint-BA_2010-07-28-0.u36395	Thank you. Another replica, distinguished representative Mirko Okolić.
ParlaMint-BA_2010-07-28-0.u36396	Thank you, Mr. Chairman. Oh, it's a replica to Mr. Kadrić who today said, in my opinion, a big and serious thing. Look, the man who did the terrorist act publicly declared himself a member of the Wahhabi movement. We've got one face dead, and one badly wounded, and a lot of material damage. It's something to talk about here. I'm immediately under construction, so from his discussion that this is a blow to Islam and Muslims. We should be careful if someone declares himself as such and does a terrorist act, shall we say – do not touch him because of Serbia, Islam, Orthodoxism, Catholicism etc., etc. We need to distinguish that. But here, that's why we have the agenda point, so we're going to try to distinguish it. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-BA_2010-07-28-0.u36397	Dear Representative Ekrem Ajanović, a replica.
ParlaMint-BA_2010-07-28-0.u36398	Mr. President, colleagues and colleagues, this House cannot and should not defend Islam, nor should anyone defend Islam. Islam defends itself by its teachings and therefore does not need to be debated at all. The other thing is, someone can say that a Wahhabi movement man committed a terrorist attack, and it's not identified whether he's Wahhabi or not. You can't identify the man you're wearing, you need to know that. It can't be identified by the chin, it can't be identified by this. I, the man in the picture, look more like a hippie who works for certain intelligence services, so don't speak in advance. So, these are the nonsense we're discussing here, just like stupidity, gentlemen, to put the agenda on point: "No Wahhabi movement." But we're gonna get to that point, and we're gonna declare a terrorist, because there's a way to do it. So, these are empty stories, we need to go to what is proposed and adopt the agenda, so that we no longer go to an expansion of the agenda that is really with these general proposals unnecessary and incomplete.
ParlaMint-BA_2010-07-28-0.u36399	Thank you. The next is distinguished representative Husein Nanić.
ParlaMint-BA_2010-07-28-0.u36400	I thank you, Chairman. Members of the Council of Ministers, guests, colleagues and fellow MPs, I had a brief discussion of my agenda, so what we got. The main thing that I'm reporting about is the difference in the agenda that we got and the one that we got 14 now on the tables: I think these three points of the agenda, point 4, point 8 and point 22 are important to me. I would ask the services, since really amending the Central Bank Act is a very important document, the functioning of the Central Bank continues not to spread the story, to deliver these regulations, the laws mean bill proposals. I know we got them in the process and they weren't in the agenda and we don't have them today, I don't have them personally so I can discuss them very well. And, let's hear it, I also hear he doesn't even have a commission opinion on... the law, that commissions haven't held their sessions. Also, this point 8. The decision to refer members of the Armed Forces, I do see that it all happened in two days. That the 27th Bureau has made a decision, that this commission made a decision this morning and that we have now been given the agenda. At least give us the documents that we have based on which Parliament and we as MPs can bring our own traits. I don't dispute the need to adopt, the urgency, but let's give these procedures to meet. And the next point, so the last point, giving consent to ratification, we have new six or seven agreements, I'm not sure, of which are four financial agreements, we also couldn't see them. And we, last time I discussed it on the Foreign Affairs Commission whose jurisdiction this is, and it really turns into an instrument that doesn't make any sense. We don't know how much it is, we've seen what BiH's public debt is, there's no specifics yet, the last time we had that, and we really don't want to turn this commission and these international agreements, really, into a form that will solve everything in five minutes. So, my first wish was that these new materials that are on the agenda be delivered to us so that we could discuss them and prepare for discussion.
ParlaMint-BA_2010-07-28-0.u36401	Thank you. I ask the services to deliver these materials to the agents during the session. The next one is the honourable representative Sefer Halilović for the debate.
ParlaMint-BA_2010-07-28-0.u36402	Dear Chairman, fellow MPs and guests, I would just like to briefly say in two sentences the need for the Council of Ministers to deliver a four-year report on its work in the past term. There is a hundred and one reason for the report to be delivered and Parliament to accept it or reject it and there is no reason not to deliver it. Thus, good practices require that a report be submitted at the end of the term of office and that an evaluation be given. Obviously, here I do not know what reasons and I do not think there is any reason why the Council of Ministers/Council of Ministers would submit a report to Parliament and Parliament would accept it or reject it, in the way the parliamentary majority thinks. Thank you.
ParlaMint-BA_2010-07-28-0.u36403	Thank you. The next is Honorable Representative Drago Kalabić. I just want to remind you all that I don't have any proposals here in accordance with the Rules of Procedure for amendments to the agenda until now. 15
ParlaMint-BA_2010-07-28-0.u36404	Here, Mr. Chairman, let's help you have a suggestion. So, in accordance with Article 65, we propose to include in the agenda today's session a point called 'Confirming the authentic translation of the General Framework Agreement for Peace in BiH to languages in official use in BiH'. This is a proposal for a new agenda. As you know, the Club of Members of the SNSD led the activities in this direction to resolve this issue, we discussed it today at the Expansive College. A tight college supported it on the agenda of this session. We have done our best to obtain an authentic translation from an authorised, so licensed house, which works for courts, which works for international organisations and for all those for whom it is needed in this country. You are also aware that I am not repeating to you the story that BiH does not have an official translation of the Dayton Peace Agreement, that the official original document has disappeared from the BiH Presidency, that the BiH Presidency has been silent for several years, through administrative silence, about our request to complete this job and deliver it to us. In use, we have various translations that many MPs and many BiH institutions have questioned because they differ. They were downloaded from various sites, translated by those who were not authorized to translate, and in this way we obtained meaning material. Here are three original copies for Parliament's archives, here are 50 CDs for all MPs, meaning with an official translation into the official use of languages in BiH. We think it is our obligation and it is BiH's obligation to do an official translation. This is all about professional and technical issues, no interpretation, no relationship... The Dayton Peace Agreement will certainly not change in this House. So his position is clear and clear, but I think this parliament by the authorized house should get to itself and confirm that document and make it official, to solve all of these dilemmas that we have about these unofficial translations. I do not dispute means that in some translations and it does not stand all right, but this is an opportunity to get an official translation by this Parliament confirmed. So, we're not going to go into the essence, and that can be questioned by someone, these houses, we assume, or we have data that they have a license and they're authorized to do this, and that someone can normally ask a question with a valid argument. It is our request that, at the end of the term, we end this issue and leave this technical document behind, meaning, the official translation of the Dayton Peace Agreement, and that, by doing so, all these shortcomings that I have talked about and that perhaps others, who have been stolen so far, have happened for what reasons, to put aside, in some way, and that we have this document on which BiH rests, that we have it, in an official sense, and in this Parliament. And my question to the chairman: Does this room mean all persons who have the authority to approach and attend this session?
ParlaMint-BA_2010-07-28-0.u36405	I'm not sure I understand the question. 16
ParlaMint-BA_2010-07-28-0.u36406	Mr. Chairman, is this where all the people who have your authority to attend today's session are here?
ParlaMint-BA_2010-07-28-0.u36407	I guess they did, I mean, I guess, but I have to say I didn't legitimize who was coming in here in the hall, so I can't answer reliably. The next one is the distinguished representative Denis Bećirović.
ParlaMint-BA_2010-07-28-0.u36408	Mr Kalabić also cited in his first discussion as a crown reason why a report on the work of the Council of Ministers should not be discussed, so the four-year report is because, as he said, there is no point. Here, I have by this time noted at least five-six topics that are proposed here, among other things, and from the SNSD Club that absolutely have no purpose from the point of view that it will pass after the vote. The report on the work of the Council of Ministers is, above all, a matter of elementary political culture. There is therefore no country, especially in the EU, but also outside the EU that has a multi-party system in which there is no fluid to submit a work report at the end of the term of office. Even the work report was submitted in single-party systems. I don't know why the problem is that we have that work report today. The real question is why most will not order the Council of Ministers to submit such a report on the work of the Council of Ministers. It is likely that the answer to this question is in the fact that many in the parliamentary majority would like to stir up a series of other flammable topics in these two months, which ultimately will not make any sense, rather than draw a line at the end of the term and see what has been promised to the people, and what has been done in these four years. In doing so, I would also like to emphasise the fact that in public there is no unknown when it was voted in last session on this conclusion, I have a list, not everyone in the parliamentary majority voted the same way. However, it is indicative that apart from the SNSD Club, which was against the report, a good part of the BiH Federation MPs also voted out of the parliamentary majority that the Council of Ministers would not deliver the report to parliament. And that should be emphasized.
ParlaMint-BA_2010-07-28-0.u36409	I point out once again, here's what you've told us, you still haven't submitted a proposal to supplement the agenda. DENIS
ParlaMint-BA_2010-07-28-0.u36410	/no microphone turned on/
ParlaMint-BA_2010-07-28-0.u36411	When did you deliver?
ParlaMint-BA_2010-07-28-0.u36412	Two or three months ago... 17
ParlaMint-BA_2010-07-28-0.u36413	And five years ago, you delivered, possibly that. Today is the session of this house, and if you propose to add the agenda today, please submit a proposal today. Don't abuse this pay phone. The next is a respected representative of Azra Hadžiahmetović.
ParlaMint-BA_2010-07-28-0.u36414	Thank you, Chairman. Here, on the basis of the proposal to include, as defined, the agenda item 'Confirming the authenticity of the Dayton Peace Agreement translation' will only briefly state the view that, of course, the Party for BiH Parliament Club will not support such a proposal for two reasons. In the proposal, there are two absurdities in your proposal. First, if something is authentic, what does it mean to confirm authenticity? Secondly, what it means to confirm translation by the highest legislative authority here and whether it is necessary for the Parliamentary Assembly to deal with, as you yourself have said, the technical question, which is the translation, or the publication of translations, etc.? So, Mr. Kalabić, we also had a debate on this extended college and there was no support for your proposal, and I don't suppose there will be any now, but here's an advance for you to know the reasons why the Party of BiH MPs' Club will not support your absurd proposal.
ParlaMint-BA_2010-07-28-0.u36415	Thank you. Next is Remzija Kadrić, a replica.
ParlaMint-BA_2010-07-28-0.u36416	Let me just add to this Dayton deal. So, I am referring to one decision of the Constitutional Court in which everything is clarified when it comes to the Dayton Peace Agreement, the translation of the Dayton Agreement into all languages. So there is one decision of the Constitutional Court on this matter and the Constitutional Court has resolved all these dilemmas in that decision. Therefore, there is no need to put this point on the agenda.
ParlaMint-BA_2010-07-28-0.u36417	Thank you. The next is distinguished representative Šefik Džaferović.
ParlaMint-BA_2010-07-28-0.u36418	So, Mr. Chairman, without a desire to challenge any reaction to my discussion on the proposal of a respected counterpart, I will say it is not a technical, administrative issue, it is a major political issue that has arisen as a result of the 15-year obstruction of the Dayton Peace Agreement. So, I'm totally convinced of that. I have not seen at all the text that my colleague Kalabić has on him and how, let's say, the 18 houses that have translated that provision that speaks of the opposition of the European Convention on the Constitution of BiH and..., let's say, I have not seen it at all, but I am convinced that this translation does not stand there as it says in the English text. The only original version of the Dayton Agreement, the only valid one in English. And the official translation in BiH did not occur precisely because of the different interpretations and obstructions in the Dayton Agreement, and one political party cannot (no matter how much I am very grateful to you, is it for your efforts) to engage and do the job! The job should be done by the BiH state. If this is to be Parliament, so to make an official translation, after reading all the rulings of the Constitutional Court and everything that needs to be read, then it is necessary to enter into this business, and this is not the way it comes to this. And that's why the SDA club won't support this proposal. That's it, thank you.
ParlaMint-BA_2010-07-28-0.u36419	Thank you. Replica, second Vice-President, Mr. President. Milorad Živković. HONEY
ParlaMint-BA_2010-07-28-0.u36420	/no microphone turned on/
ParlaMint-BA_2010-07-28-0.u36421	Materials can be shared, these are materials within the framework of the draft agenda item.
ParlaMint-BA_2010-07-28-0.u36422	Thank you, Chairman. Obviously, we have something to discuss with this agenda point. And to make this decision of the Constitutional Court and to have the honourable MP Džaferović Kadrić all the rulings of the Constitutional Court, or other materials that would refresh this item of the agenda and discuss it. An excuse not to include the agenda item entitled here is an excuse not to vote for the Dayton Peace Agreement. And that should be said out loud and clear here. Hiding the presidency since 2005, when they received translations from the Justice Ministry, to make a step in this process and to initiate this procedure that some have been talking about here is also hiding behind the fact that in BiH they do not want to implement and confirm the Dayton Peace Agreement. The authenticity of translation and what we're working on is a few facts. One is that the Constitutional Court of this country is working according to translation from the OHR's... website on the Internet. It's a shame for this country. And then you call on the Constitutional Court's verdicts. The fact that this Parliament works according to some translation, Bog knows which, and documents that are not authentic. You can at least agree with us on two things. First of all, we got an authentic or original photocopy from the depositaries of this document from France. And now at least in BiH if we don't have the original, we have the original photocopy. Isn't that the success of this country? After we got the original photocopy, we asked authorized and licensed court interpreters to make a translation. Who in this country can say that they are not authorized to translate any documents if their translations are used in the courts of this country, 19 if their translations are used in international courts, who here in this House can say that they are not authorized, licensed translators? Don't hide behind the formal ones, starting with the definition of the agenda point, let's define it: A reference by this Parliament to the translation of the Dayton Agreement to the publication in the Official Messenger; Delegating the Presidency to honour the Paris Peace Agreement and sending this translation to Paris to finally BiH to do its job. Let's form a agenda point like that. Don't hide behind the formal and formalistic stuff. Say you're not for Dejton, loud and clear.
ParlaMint-BA_2010-07-28-0.u36423	Let's move on. Halid Genjac, replica.
ParlaMint-BA_2010-07-28-0.u36424	Thank you, Chairman. Describing the point, Mr. Kalabić said one sentence, to paraphrase it - BiH is resting on this document. I think for a number of reasons we should react to this sentence, ignoring the fact that the term rests has a ambiguous meaning in our vocabulary. From this negative meaning I will rest at this time, but from that expression that BiH rests, in a well-intentioned sense, we must react to Dayton because it is a huge untruth. So BiH is a fact with a thousand-year history of statehood, with a thousand-year history of subjectivity, as is the fact that an internationally recognised state is within its borders, with its sovereignty and with its continuity. So, it is a big lie that BiH is resting on the Dayton Peace Agreement because BiH continues its continuity under the same agreement and has had more constitutional solutions in its history. One of these constitutional solutions is Annex 4 of the Dayton Peace Agreement. And all of these solutions have experienced their historic addition, as this, of course, and improvements, regardless of what may be the obstruction of the agreement and the obstruction of the constitution, some will have motive for BiH to rest. Thank you.
ParlaMint-BA_2010-07-28-0.u36425	Drago Kalabić, replica.
ParlaMint-BA_2010-07-28-0.u36426	I didn't think it was technical. Well, you see, we don't know what we'd say more than these two discussions. It is that all decisions made by this parliament, so when it comes to technical issues, they have special significance. So, when it comes to translation, I consider translation a technical question, I can't consider it political, because if I thought it was political, then I would go in there essentially. I said I allow anyone who suspects this translation, so he has to have an argument just to say what it's about. We don't know English, but we know what it says, what it says. I mean, that's why there are authorised translators who say what it means. Here, let them be some other translators. But we're not allowed to do that, if we're talking about translation. There are licensed translators who say, no matter what I think privately about this translation and those translations. I don't think 20 is correct, but basically everything is familiar. Avoiding this story sends another message to Mr. Živković. Mr. Genjac, possibly because of that connotation you bring, but it means nothing in any sense because our language is very rich, and then you have certain meanings that you can do anyway. Indeed in this positive one, but in this positive one I will repeat: it rests exclusively on nothing but the Dayton Agreement. And if she doesn't rest on the Dayton Agreement, then you can talk about another context. Then I allow you to talk about this negative context. And you tell us what else it rests on, when we talk about a positive context, if it doesn't rest on the Dayton Peace Accords? That's a very clear thing. And that's why we asked for an official translation and to say that this is our basic document in BiH, at this point in time, a basic document in BiH. These observations: Yugoslavia was like this and like this, recognized, unrecognized, lived, never lived, and what happened happened. And everyone else, and in the neighborhood. If it's not the Dayton Agreement, which is of great power, not ours, exclusively by our will, a significant international agreement of the highest rank, then I don't know what else it is? What's the message if you don't want Dejton? Is that, if not for Dejton, is it desirable to have some advisory opinion of an international court? It's not a problem. But I think we better stick to Dejton, translate it. There's someone else who can translate it, but let's sort it out in this House. Let's just say it's our turn to have that book. What do you want? To question our lecturers here in Parliament, who translate officially, to say no, that's not it. They translate our conventions here, significant international conventions. Have we ever questioned the question of this translation? How do we do without that translation? We could question some of the parameters there and say that in Paris that convention didn't mean it that way. In English, it's said differently. We haven't questioned that for a moment. We didn't have the arguments, and we're not bringing it in. Thank you.
ParlaMint-BA_2010-07-28-0.u36427	Milorad Živković, replica, second. Excuse me, seliti Bešlagić, replica. Selim, replica.
ParlaMint-BA_2010-07-28-0.u36428	It's over there, so I apologize. Thank you. In 2003, I asked the parliamentary question of ratification of the Dayton Agreement in this House. I didn't get the answer, and I just think this time is saying that we're constantly sticking to the Dayton Agreement, and that's undeniable, undeniable. ... I'm thanking you for this material that I got right now on the CD, I'm really going to try, but I'd like to highlight just one thing. Don't accuse us here if we don't accept the proposal against the Dayton Agreement or if we're for Dayton. The Dayton Agreement is signed, he has his interpreter and everything. Unfortunately, what happened happened, and we don't have to get into it. And it's not right if it's about when we want something to go through, there's a commission that would be common, so I'll meet you here. Why didn't you suggest, gentlemen of the SNSD, that it be done, which I would support, that Parliament requires that a translation of the Dayton Agreement be made, not ratified, because it is ratified, but that we have it. Or maybe (I'm just saying I haven't read it now, I have to read it) maybe I'll express some doubt. And it's not possible, if I accept this part, it's not possible today to adopt this translation, for one 21 simple reason why here is the question of doubt whether it's correct or not. And I agree, and I thank you for making that translation, and I think that a better conclusion would be that the next session immediately requires writing, or translation of the Dayton Agreement into all three languages in BiH. Let this material be given and let this next Parliament actually adopt it itself, there is nothing to ratify, there is nothing "for" or "against". We're adopting the convention here. We're not looking at their correctness. For these reasons, I don't know who translated it if I could discuss it, it would be good if it was a translation of parliamentary structures, or those who are involved in translation in Parliament, or officially of a team... in which everyone sitting here would trust. And for these reasons, I thank you for this, but I think it would be correct for it to be forwarded, let's say, to the next Parliament that this agreement should definitely be adopted, or translated into these languages. Not because we're verifying it, it's been verified, we've got nothing to verify. I have received the answer that the Parliamentary Assembly of BiH, the Republic of BiH, the Dayton Agreement has verified him and we have nothing to add here. But what is it now from the aspect of our knowledge of English, I think it's correct to have a translation. Therefore, I thank you for this, I propose that this be sent to the next Parliamentary Assembly to task the bodies of Parliament and that this is why we get an official version of the translation into three languages in BiH.
ParlaMint-BA_2010-07-28-0.u36429	Ekrem Ajanović, replica.
ParlaMint-BA_2010-07-28-0.u36430	Mr. President, colleagues and colleagues, I think in this way putting an end to Parliament's agenda is playing with Parliament. It is one non-repealing of the work of Parliament and, in particular, every MP. In the proposal SNSD sent and sent by 27. Seven. In 2010, it means yesterday, it says that each MP was given official use in BiH in electronic form, and today they share them, and on the other hand they said they shared the agreement with lawmakers. Now, how can a point be put on the agenda so unserious, if I'm in electronic shape now and I haven't even looked at it, and I'm supposed to vote for that point? Therefore, this point today needs to be removed from the agenda and will be discussed in the future when there is time and when... certain things. Because in order for me to decide anything, I have to read the Dayton Agreement in Serbian, thank Bog I know it, in Croatian, I know it too, and in Bosnian. It's a different period for a man to compare, to see, etc. And secondly, please, the Dayton Agreement, the Dayton Constitution, the Dayton Peace Agreement has been translated and we have been working on it since 1996 and here we are arguing whether certain matter is in the Constitution or not. That means that we've been doing what we've done so far, which means we've done without certain translations, without certain knowledge, without certain rules. And I don't think so, because the Dayton Peace Agreement has been translated into all languages, and we all MPs have those translations at home. 22 Therefore, this new translation that is announced, it is to be read, and normally cannot be sent in this way: yesterday, and today put the agenda in place. For example, yesterday there were 10-15 MPs who were on the Administrative Commission, there were 15 MPs who were on another committee. So over 30 MPs couldn't read their e-mail at home that was sent. Therefore, it is unserious to put such a item on the agenda today.
ParlaMint-BA_2010-07-28-0.u36431	Replica, Živković.
ParlaMint-BA_2010-07-28-0.u36432	Thank you. I'd like to rephrase to a respected professor first. Namely, the point isn't on the agenda. We tried on an extended college to put it on the agenda, but there was no majority in the Extended College and therefore this debate was transferred here to Parliament. According to the Rules of Procedure, we have the right to propose a item of the agenda. At the same time, we have one copy in three languages in official use in BiH, bound and confirmed by court interpreters, and this is here for the archive saved. We were unable to deliver a translation of the Dayton Agreement to each MP in this way. That is why we have chosen to make a translation on the CD and that if each MP, if the agenda point, has the possibility of removing it from the CD in paper form. Therefore, I think all technical preconditions are designed to be discussed. The second question is whether we trust licensed interpreters to court that they can do it or not. That's another story, that's another thing. And the following question is asked BiH: Do we need to ask someone else for every translation of the certified court interpreter, and I ask you who else, to check his credibility and expertise? That's what we're talking about here in BiH. I, as a Parliamentarian, who am I to enter into checking what the certified translator, or court interpreter, did. So to get out of this form of belief by people who do something, so they have names and last names, it's all on your CD, it's all here, nothing hidden is. SELIM Bešlagić [[no microphone turned on]] Well, if you can put the agenda on point, Reverend Bešlagić, you can check everything, check it out. If you find any objections, we are here to discuss it. Therefore, do not hide behind formal reasons. The second thing, we tried in Parliament in several ways to join in this activity together and we ran activities in the Joint College of both homes and failed to finish this story. We failed to finish because the continued presidency was holding back and obstructing this activity. 23 At the same time, Ambassador Džaferović, although he can hold back at the last pitch session. Because there's enough four... sides,
ParlaMint-BA_2010-07-28-0.u36434	Please, a little patience.
ParlaMint-BA_2010-07-28-0.u36435	Let me say something. If you have a replica, feel free to respond, but you don't have a replica of this because you have no arguments. You don't want the Dayton Agreement, and it's clear to everyone in BiH, and don't be surprised we're looking for alternatives. Thank you.
ParlaMint-BA_2010-07-28-0.u36436	We've got two people reported for discussion. Momčilo Novaković.
ParlaMint-BA_2010-07-28-0.u36437	Thank you, Mr. Chairman. Here, I keep trying to understand the resistance to mention this question. You know, it doesn't matter now what this agenda point is called. We could have changed the name of this agenda point. Look, I don't understand why some colleagues get excited when this issue is mentioned. I don't understand why some colleagues are nervous about this question. It would be quite logical to look at this question as well as all the other questions that have been asked here on the agenda. And it would be logical if we had said today, here's the conclusion and let this go to the Constitutional Commission, as the competent commission. So let it be an object, like any other point, the subject of the debate on the competent committee. So that competent commission will do something or not, but this parliament will report on it. I don't see why this would be any different, in a different context being observed. Anyway, there are some facts. The fact is that there is no official translation of the Dayton Peace Agreement into any language, official translation. And he doesn't exist. The fact is there is no original version of the Dayton Agreement in the BiH presidency and in one of the institutions in BiH. And that's a fact. The fact is, adopted or not adopted by this or a different item of the agenda, the Dayton Agreement is signed, and it exists, and there are two entities in it, however we dispute or do not dispute it. And the fact is that everything that's written there is, and there's Annex 7, and there's Annex 1, and there's other annexes to this Dayton Agreement. It's not correct, of course, from either of the proponents to accuse those who are not for this of not being for the Dayton Agreement, but I also don't understand the resistance to end this issue once. I think it's too late for this parliament to end it. I think we, unfortunately because of the Bureau's inertness, are too late to discuss this session. But don't say that the Presidency, as the most responsible body for the verification of international agreements in this country, has been serious about this matter. It was extremely unserious and irresponsible when it comes to this issue. 24 I think this should be looked at differently. It may have been an unfortunately chosen moment by the promoter to come to the last session, but maybe people had a problem that they couldn't translate it faster, because I saw from these documents there that it was very serious documents, I looked at the session of the College. So they have people who are authorized, they have a certificate that they can make translation, judicial translation. I've never doubted any of this agreement so far that they've had here and that they've translated. We trust people who have less authority to do this than these, so we've verified them all here. Of course, they rightly verified it, for it was both a need and a responsibility to those who signed and according to what it says there. Do not make us think that we are working on documents that are not or are not responding to the truth, or to the original. I want to believe that I've done this before and that what it says in the Rules of Procedure is Annex 4, no matter what it's not an official translation. I'm afraid that resisting this thing ends up pointing us in the wrong direction, starting to doubt the documents we're working on. I think it's a bad message, and it's not someone for the Dayton Agreement or against the Dayton Agreement, but it's a bad message that we suspect that we're working on bad documents or incorrect documents, as well as a suspicion that what was proposed is not true. If there are doubts, let’s go to someone else, let’s give an assignment to someone who will prepare, and let’s compare this official translation with another official translation. But I think we should have done something about this. Unfortunately, we didn't. This will not go away in this House today, this will not get Parliament's support for sure, as it has not received the support of the Colleges. I'm not sure the promoter couldn't, or I'm sure he could have chosen the happier title of this agenda point, but what's there. The promoter has the right and even to run politics regardless of the opposition. We're not the only ones in the opposition who have the right to deal with political issues. He's got a realtor. What made me come forward was a nervousness that suddenly showed up with some of our colleagues and I don't understand, starting with Mr. Džaferović, so I don't know any other colleagues. Why the anxiety? Or Mrs. Azra, Miss Azra. Guys, why the anxiety? This is a normal document as well as many documents that have come here and is not a political issue translation. It may be a political question of how to put it on the agenda, but it's not a political issue translation and it can't be. Of course, I could talk more... like we all had...
ParlaMint-BA_2010-07-28-0.u36438	Is this all about the agenda, Mr. Novaković? Was this all about the agenda? It was all about the agenda?
ParlaMint-BA_2010-07-28-0.u36439	Well, I'm saying, behind me, only a colleague of Kuzmanović was reported on the agenda.
ParlaMint-BA_2010-07-28-0.u36440	Well, here, now you'll get answers. 25
ParlaMint-BA_2010-07-28-0.u36441	Everyone before me talked about the agenda just as much as I did about the agenda.
ParlaMint-BA_2010-07-28-0.u36442	Here, now you'll get answers about nervousness etc.
ParlaMint-BA_2010-07-28-0.u36443	And I did talk about the agenda, about putting an end to it.
ParlaMint-BA_2010-07-28-0.u36444	Let's make a deal. Let's go to two o'clock on the agenda, 2:00 p.m. So, Denis Bećirović always fine-tunes it. Slavko Jovičić, replica.
ParlaMint-BA_2010-07-28-0.u36445	Mr. Chairman, I'm not finished but if you took my word for it.
ParlaMint-BA_2010-07-28-0.u36446	No, go ahead, finish up. Here you go, excuse me.
ParlaMint-BA_2010-07-28-0.u36447	Oh, thank you, no need.
ParlaMint-BA_2010-07-28-0.u36448	Slavko Jovičić, developed the technique. Here you go, Slavko.
ParlaMint-BA_2010-07-28-0.u36449	Thank you very much, Mr. Chairman. I don't doubt when you're presidencies and any of your colleagues do it, but professional services do little, but we won't mind them either. So two things are completely clear. And there's no anxiety but general understanding. Those who will not support this point today – it is quite clear as taking on a huge responsibility that will legalise the existence of the RS today. That's the point, being as open to me as I am, to be clear here. And the others will say, here are those from the RS remembered the recognition of the Dayton Agreement to give up some separatist aspirations for them to be singled out. The legalization of this was long ago. And if someone had asked this parliament, there would be neither Dejton nor this assembly nor us nor anyone else, because we would never have agreed. And that's quite clear. But even when we're having conversations that we disagree with, even on the agenda, I admire that we're doing this in a tolerated atmosphere and there are no big charges, Mr. Novaković. What's there to get nervous about, who? There's no need at all. That's one thing. 26 So since there have been various translations here, a little digression, when we have signed a Stabilisation and Association Agreement and ratified in fact with the EU and in some annexes there, now my head hurts for no reason whatsoever, someone has translated that instead of importing 1,500 tonnes of freighters up to 50 kg we should import wild pigs. _________(?) [[no microphone turned on]] No, no, it's a Stabilisation and Association Agreement. And I ask these of the Commission: so here's your hunting rifle, I don't have it, but I'll get it, go find a wild pig in the mountain, not import. What do we need that for? But the farmers choked me, as chairman of this commission, I can't bring in pigs. Someone mistranslated. Now I'm looking at this translation, I just took it, and on each page, two stamps, each page, and a signature, and in all languages, there's a Bosnian here. Sir, you'll get it now, but you won't use it. You'll get it as temporary as I do when you speak. So that's the general problem of this Parliament and this country that we don't trust each other when something's been confirmed, or when it's written, or when we talk and look at each other, or when we look at the stenograms. So, I plead that we trust. Niko one said that we suggested this and that today, if you refuse, the RS will disappear. They never will. Accepted this by someone in the agenda, didn't accept it, it says here that she exists. So that I may do one more crackdown; I took it two years ago, as a private person, a lawsuit, who stole the Dayton Agreement? Who stole BiH from us? And I get the answer that the DA's office is in charge of the investigation. As a private person, not as an MP. Someone stole my country, the Dayton Agreement, I don't have the original and, of course, filed a criminal report. So what do we do now, no originals? But here, someone remembered to translate this too, so now I have an original that you call a fake. So take a look at these CDs, see if that's where it says it's all regular, looking for corrections, associates, translators, consultants. Well, if we had a country in which, I wasn't an MP, in the next term, the RS would be, it will stay, because here it writes and does not depend on the voice of my, distinguished fellow to me or behind my back or before me. So, are we going to respect this or not, that's the point. And today fate is known, it won't be accepted by my colleagues who I truly give a great confession to, this order was the best, I respect myself and the first, but this order was the most appropriate to me, so because I had good cooperation. So if fate is, it's perfectly clear, it won't be, but it'll all be the same. Nothing will change, whether the seal was, 2-1 or 1-1.
ParlaMint-BA_2010-07-28-0.u36451	Slavko, four minutes.
ParlaMint-BA_2010-07-28-0.u36452	I'm done. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-BA_2010-07-28-0.u36453	Azra Hadžiahmetović, replica. 27
ParlaMint-BA_2010-07-28-0.u36454	I don't know if Džaferović's nervous, but Azra isn't. During his discussion, Mr. Novaković expressed doubts on several occasions, i.e. he asked why the promoter today, etc., or for what reasons. You see, the promoter has achieved his goal, so we don't really have to deal with why today, etc. It is fully aware that voting will be the outcome of what it will be, but the promoter has achieved its goal. And even in that sense, here's why we're not setting up any dilemmas. But what I particularly want to point out is: should any call be made to any, therefore, in the future of any Parliament, the Parliamentary Assembly of BiH to deal with confirming the authenticity of the translation? I, in that sense, drew attention to the absurdity of the wording of the agenda. You see, those who deal with once some official documents that are necessary under our laws to be certified translations by authorised court interpreters have no authentication whatsoever. In that sense, I've drawn attention to the absurdity of your proposal. And I must say, indeed, this may be the disappointment that what you have indirectly wanted to achieve in this House, so now I am speaking to the promoter, would be very useful if you had initiated a debate on efficiency, perhaps, or the need to change Annex 4 of the Dayton Peace Agreement in terms of assessment or evaluation whether we really have a system that corresponds to the time ahead. Thank you.
ParlaMint-BA_2010-07-28-0.u36455	Željko Kuzmanović, replica.
ParlaMint-BA_2010-07-28-0.u36456	Thank you, Mr. Chairman. I am some sort of business intervention that may have been discussed before, however, here I was correct enough to listen to all my predecessors. Namely, I have a few questions for the Security Service, and it concerns: Please the Security Service to provide me with a list of all those attending the House session, so a list of staff and guests, how has the identification of those present been carried out, where their identification has been carried out, and are they all trained in accordance with the code applied in the House of Representatives? Thank you.
ParlaMint-BA_2010-07-28-0.u36457	Mr. Kuzmanović, I don't understand you at all. So, a young man of that kind of business intervention right, that's amazing. HONEY
ParlaMint-BA_2010-07-28-0.u36458	/no microphone turned on/
ParlaMint-BA_2010-07-28-0.u36459	Sure, I'll take a 50-minute break. This is beneath everyone, I can't believe it. I can't believe it. 28 [[PAUZA]]
ParlaMint-BA_2010-07-28-0.u36460	Ladies and gentlemen of the Parliament, honored guests, please take your seats. The Honorable representative Željko Kuzmanović asked for a break. Here you go. Please sit down and take your seats.
ParlaMint-BA_2010-07-28-0.u36461	Thank you, Mr. Chairman. I can only find out that I didn't get an answer to the questions asked and let the club members decide.
ParlaMint-BA_2010-07-28-0.u36462	I'm sorry, I can't hear you either, I guess others can't hear you, too.
ParlaMint-BA_2010-07-28-0.u36463	I can only conclude that I haven't received the answers to the questions asked by the Security Service.
ParlaMint-BA_2010-07-28-0.u36464	Dear Representative Drago Kalabić, business intervention.
ParlaMint-BA_2010-07-28-0.u36465	It's clear that the end of the term of office, Mr. Chairman, is that we understand each other a little less, and we hear, but, well, we're probably a little tired. Since a member of our club, Mr. Kuzmanović, asked for this answer, which is important to us, we did not get it, it is quite clear why we have asked this question and because of the absence of such an answer, which should be an integral part of every session's scenario, I ask you to make the House known about it. And my proposal is to make a statement on whether conditions have been obtained to proceed with the work of the session?
ParlaMint-BA_2010-07-28-0.u36466	I have to say, so what kind of questions you've been asking, those are the answers you've received; so ask the exact question, you'll get the exact answer. So, I mean, I can guess what you meant when you asked, but I don't want to guess. So, a specific question, every specific question will be given a concrete answer. So if you have a specific question about any person who's here in the hall, ask and you'll get an answer. Here you go.
ParlaMint-BA_2010-07-28-0.u36467	Mr. Chairman, do I understand that your answer is that everything is in accordance with the regulations? Do I understand that you guarantee that here all persons who have the right to 29 attend Parliament's session that they have entered Parliament in accordance with the usual procedure that each time you enter and that you stand in that position that it is true? So if that's your answer, then we have an answer. If that's your answer in this room, it means to Parliament in accordance with these procedures, then I, too, interpret, understand your answer. If that's your answer to Mr. Kuzmanović's question, I don't think it's a problem...
ParlaMint-BA_2010-07-28-0.u36468	Right now, I'm very clear to be unequivocal. So, according to the information I have in the BiH Parliamentary Assembly, there are no uninvited guests, nor anyone who has entered past the procedures in force. Do you want to put on a statement of the proposal and whether the conditions for continuing work have been obtained? I mean, there's no problem, you're right.
ParlaMint-BA_2010-07-28-0.u36469	Mr. Chairman, I don't see why you didn't answer Mr. Kuzmanović when you suddenly understand his question. That was his question, I don't know what I needed for you as an interpreter to translate what Mr. Kuzmanović had asked you quite clearly. I know that you weren't at the moment... in the O.R., but the technique of conducting the session, there was no reason not to pass it on to you. We have different information and we think it's not true and I'm only asking for five minutes extra breaks.
ParlaMint-BA_2010-07-28-0.u36470	Five minutes break at the SNSD Club's request. And I apologize that after the break I won't be here, so I have to accept the Chinese delegation, but the session may, as far as I'm concerned, continue working in accordance with the Rules of Procedure. [[PAUZA]]
ParlaMint-BA_2010-07-28-0.u36471	Please take your seats. We already have the quorum, but here, a minute or two to wait, there's probably more people there, to wait for Mr. Kalabić. We're waiting for Mr. Kalabić, he asked for a break. _________(?) He's making statements. He's making statements, okay. Slavko, can you replace and explain? SLOVE
ParlaMint-BA_2010-07-28-0.u36473	30 [[no microphone turned on]]
ParlaMint-BA_2010-07-28-0.u36474	Not this time. All right, Slavko, all right. [[Mr. Kalabiæ is waiting.]] Please, let's get started. Here you go, Mr. Kalabić.
ParlaMint-BA_2010-07-28-0.u36476	Mr. Chairman, we tried to check the allegations of Mr. Chairman. Lozančić and we found that they weren't right, so we checked through our services, when I say my own information that we came to, it means that people who don't respect the Code of Conduct, who haven't been identified, have entered the O.R. And the Code of Conduct, here last time we warned the messengers to behave in this Codex. So, under 1, they entered in a way that is inappropriate to the BiH Parliament, so they have not identified themselves and have not accepted identification according to the rules of this Parliament, according to our information. According to our information, those rules have been violated and your advisor has been involved in this, according to our unverified information, and we believe that, in this House, we are laying down rules, I suppose you agree with me, and these rules should all be respected, as we do in other places, and this Parliament should work according to the rules it has established. So I ask you to definitely put my proposal to the vote: Are the conditions for continuing this session or convince us otherwise?
ParlaMint-BA_2010-07-28-0.u36477	Of course, Mr. Kalabić, this Parliament is voting on everything. So, Article 92. The rules of procedure say that citizens and representatives of public communications funds will be guaranteed access to this parliament. The person you are alluding to, Mrs Nađa Dizdarević addressed the College of this Parliament as an interested citizen, which is understandable. We at the College did not achieve consent, so on her presence it was 2:1, it doesn't matter how anyone voted, but Mrs. naći Dizdarević as a citizen is not prohibited. College doesn't deal with identification matters, it's really not our job and I don't know what way in you're talking about. But here, all of this aside, Mr. Kalabić, do you really feel something insecure and that there are some irregularities in this House? I didn't really notice it here, of course, by letting you experience it differently. So, just explain to me, you're asking us to vote on what? Are we sure we're working here or are working conditions acquired? Here you go.
ParlaMint-BA_2010-07-28-0.u36478	So, Mr. Chairman, if you understand me correctly, I've asked that we follow the rules you're handling. As far as I know the Kolegijum is doma, if you're not in charge, I don't know why you'd be discussing this request this morning, and it is competent, and as far as I know 31 people here are present with you. Only if you think anarchy is to the extent that you can get in whoever you want and how you want. I think you've been trying to decide what we've given you for right, because the institution in which there's no order is then not an institution, because you've tried and as we haven't let dozens of people in there so far, as you remember, because the Kolegijum we supported has not made such a decision, and without such a decision you can't enter here. That's one question. So you've broken your own rules... The second question that applies to everyone, everyone who comes in here has to follow the rules that apply down there. Only one person came in here without respecting those rules, we've been informed, not following those rules, and we don't know who that person is. Mr. Chairman, I don't know who that person is. You haven't informed us, and it was your turn to let us know who our guests are. I listened carefully to the chairman when he said who was invited, who came. I listened to who was invited. And it was time to inform us that besides these invited guests he and he entered in that way and that way, to vote, to determine ourselves, I don't know, on, on... That's what you were obliged to do to us, out of a fair relationship to us. You hid that from us. I don't know what you're hiding from your MPs, from your colleagues in this House.
ParlaMint-BA_2010-07-28-0.u36479	Is that what you're telling me I'm hiding something?
ParlaMint-BA_2010-07-28-0.u36480	Well, you see, I'm talking about the Kolegijum. So, you had some argument there that didn't give the results, and then you hid it from us and we heard it in the halls. You tried to solve it, and you didn't solve it. And the rules tell us how to handle it. It doesn't matter, Mr. Chairman, what you and I think, I think we should follow the rules. Let's follow those rules, whoever fits those rules. We have warned Mr. Lijanović here several times, the State MP, to violate the Codex, that this... So why is he supposed to be a warning now and no one else? Is that a signal to everyone that he can do what he wants? So it has nothing to do with a person, it doesn't matter, it's about the rules in the state Parliament where, for reasons unknown to me, there's a precedent like this and rules are broken. If you're breaking the rules as you expect me to tell you that I'm safe, Mr. Chairman. You're my guarantee that I'm safe if you followed the rules. Now I see you didn't follow the rules. I see you've made precedents and now I'm asking you how much precedent there is outside this hall and across the halls. Now you're making me not to trust you and that I don't trust the service that she did her job. Because why she did one thing for 99 people this morning, and for one person I don't know anything about, she did it the other way. There's no reason this House doesn't know. There's no reason to turn that on any other topic. When did we stop anyone from attending? When this parliament didn't approve of anyone who was interested, they were all by the book. Now you want to change those pavilions, break them, and that some other rules apply. I think we understand each other completely and don't make us do something like that. There's only a problem between us in respect of the rules. That's what I asked at the beginning, and that's what I end up with. They're not respected by the rules, we don't think they've gotten the terms. I'm asking that we share it with our colleagues, not just us, and the rest of us, if they think the conditions for maintaining the session have been achieved. Nothing else. And I'm asking you to stop this debate and put it to a vote. 32
ParlaMint-BA_2010-07-28-0.u36481	Well, look, you're telling me now to stop the debate. Of course, I don't want to abuse the presidency and lead the controversy with you, but I assure you that I absolutely did not participate in any hidden investment in this House. I am only telling you that this is an open parliament, that citizens have the right to enter it, that Mrs Nađa Dizdarević has filed a request. Mr. Živković disagreed. Me and Mr. Lozančić think the lady can come in, the lady doesn't mind anyone. And I don't see what the problem is. But here we go. Denis Bećirović. Is it a replica? DENIS
ParlaMint-BA_2010-07-28-0.u36482	/no microphone turned on/
ParlaMint-BA_2010-07-28-0.u36483	Business.
ParlaMint-BA_2010-07-28-0.u36484	I must say, what I've heard now from Mr. Kalabić's exposure, it's scandalous. Namely, he's a man, he's a man, he's a man, he's a man, he's a man, he's a man, he's a man, DENIS [[microphone is not enabled]]
ParlaMint-BA_2010-07-28-0.u36485	/microphone is not enabled/
ParlaMint-BA_2010-07-28-0.u36486	: (Well, I will now say, by the Rules of Procedure you interrupt), the man said that he did not believe the service of the chairman of this Parliament but that he had learned from his service that it was not so. Such a statement is scandalous and it implies the following fact: that there are different services in this House and that each of you has its own security service, which is absolutely not true. There's a stenogram, and now the SDP Club is asking for a break of 10 minutes to speak to each other, or to find out officially from the College whether one service is in charge of security or has more services, because each of you has a job. HONEY
ParlaMint-BA_2010-07-28-0.u36487	Let's hear from each other, please.
ParlaMint-BA_2010-07-28-0.u36488	We're looking for a 10-minute break to resolve this issue, on behalf of the SDP Club.
ParlaMint-BA_2010-07-28-0.u36489	Please, take 10 minutes. 33 [[PAUZA]] Please take your seats so we can go. Here you go, Mr. Bećirović.
ParlaMint-BA_2010-07-28-0.u36491	The SDP club requested a break of 10 minutes. We at the SDP Club think we need to calm the situation in Parliament here, don't take too much and I don't know why so much anxiety, so much impatience today, there's no need for that. We all know this isn't 1991 or 1992. And the question of the SDP Club towards the College was very simple: Is there one joint service of the BiH Parliament in charge of the security of this facility and those present in this facility? If there is, we should be told and there are no dilemmas. So is there a service that provides the same information both to Mr. Lozančić and Mr. Belkić and Mr. Živković, or perhaps there are past that service of a parallel service, or do not give Bog the party service that is in charge of security here in Parliament. So we are just looking as the MPs' club to answer such a question, because we have come to a dilemma after certain discussions; the chairman of this Parliament has publicly said what he has said, so that there are conditions for it to work quite normally, Parliament is working today. On the other hand, one of the MPs then corrected the chairman that was not so. I'm not going into it at all whether it's an MP or a chairman, but I'm just looking for an answer to this simple question, as a club of MPs, so that we can show ourselves about further work. Thank you.
ParlaMint-BA_2010-07-28-0.u36492	Mr Bećirović, there is only one security service and this service is called: it is the services of the BiH institution. Azra Hadžiahmetović, replica.
ParlaMint-BA_2010-07-28-0.u36493	I don't even know if it's a replica, the chairman. I apologize in advance, I don't know what to call this intervention, but we've been under one press of parliamentary issues and club questions for two hours, and we haven't even adopted the agenda. I can understand, although I can't justify, that there are also opportunities to be used, such as the Parliament's session in order to catch up with some things, but here I can't help thinking that the SNSD Club has asked the questions that it has asked after it has reached its goal with the intention of putting the agenda here. Here, I ask the SNSD question: Why is it that after an anthem is intonated and that we do not speak eventually even before the anthem itself, we do not ask the question whether we have the conditions for the normal work of this Parliament? Or should we, any of us, any club, or any MP, at the beginning of each session, ask the question: Do we have the conditions to work? It's logical for me to be informed eventually in case we don't have the conditions to work. But I'm 34 convinced that from the very beginning of today's work, from the intonation of the anthem, from the opening of the session..., the solving of previous issues and everything else, that question was completely excessive to you. You see, I repeat again, I understand everything even though I don't justify everything. But I'm asking you nicely to take care of the integrity of all of us here.
ParlaMint-BA_2010-07-28-0.u36494	Replica, Drago Kalabić.
ParlaMint-BA_2010-07-28-0.u36495	Well, you see, first of all, Mr. Bećirović, if you had listened to me properly, you probably wouldn't have needed it; when someone says football, they associate someone with the mesija, someone with Miler, someone with Safet Sušić and someone with a uniform, someone with a football. When the service is mentioned, it associates you with what it associates with. I respect your sensitivity towards services and services in services, but I really thought you should repeat that every club has a job. And that, when I told you the service, the SNSD Club service was gone, at least that's not when I didn't think. But if you're pushing where you're driving in that direction, then it's for some special service story and everything else. But to shorten the discussion, it means the SNSD Club service and all those who see visually and what they see, I don't know, which can serve us. They served us with what they served us and I said it here: unverified, because there is an official service that gives us this information, which has not given us information, because there is no Mr. Lozančić and I can't go in with him right now, because here he is because of the obligation he's not here to tell him now, I would repeat to him that he's not... true and that he's wrong. When this is the second question, dear colleagues, so those who prepared this scenario about that point shouldn't have, because I think we could have gotten out of that point. So, look at things like that. So the point you're talking about should be done right, not that what's prepared introduces a scenario related to that point. We weren't preparing this. Why has it been regular around entering and attending so far, why not today? If you're saying now that it is, it would be too much, if SNSD prepared it, it's not SNSD. He has prepared a point, but this scenario is not, we just had the answer to think that it is wrong, that it is not correct, that these relations in the BiH Parliament should be cherished when it comes to correctness and when it comes to the right to information. You denied us the right to information today trying to put us in a position not to ask. We have the right to ask, and that's the only place I agree with you, to take care of dignity. The apostle in this House, if they are deceived, if they are somehow placed in a position of subjugation under the service, is not fine. I guess even in that whole hierarchy, we are above the service, and we don't often ask, and then when we ask, can't we get an answer to the question from Parliament's internal organisation, which is why the issue is problematic, which is why we don't all go through the same door, which is why we don't all identify ourselves, which is why we don't all respect the same rules? Or should we change those rules? Here, and we will participate, but we will not participate in the breach. And there was no other intention, and you can handle it elegantly. Because in breaking the rules let me have free interpretation, from security and beyond. It's my decision, it's not yours, I decide whether I'm safe or not, not someone else on my behalf. And you don't have to contribute when we've made the rules, and I'm finishing it, we've arranged it, we've done it to this day. We will not sit here conscious of breaking the rules – to make it completely clear to everyone.
ParlaMint-BA_2010-07-28-0.u36496	Replica, Azra Hadžiahmetović. 35
ParlaMint-BA_2010-07-28-0.u36497	Thank you, Chairman. Here, again, I ask my colleague Kalabić: How come you didn't ask this question, so conditions, legality, etc., work, start of work today's session before you caused the whole storm here regarding your proposal for the Dayton Agreement? How come the service didn't schedule this morning, because we were listening to an anthem at 10:10, 10:15? HONEY
ParlaMint-BA_2010-07-28-0.u36498	/no microphone turned on/
ParlaMint-BA_2010-07-28-0.u36499	And so the SNSD service reacted late.
ParlaMint-BA_2010-07-28-0.u36500	Please?
ParlaMint-BA_2010-07-28-0.u36501	You see, colleague Kalabić, we can sort of switch, play ping-pong and everything, but I'm asking you again to respect the integrity of this institution and all of us individually.
ParlaMint-BA_2010-07-28-0.u36502	Replica, Živković.
ParlaMint-BA_2010-07-28-0.u36503	Thank you. I thought I'd call for a discussion since we're not done discussing the agenda. I have the right to discuss, but I can't... the discussion, I'm running this as a business intervention, because I wanted to discuss with you your proposal Confirming the authenticity of the translation, because it doesn't say here, it says here: Confirming authentic translation. We think it's authentic just because the court interpreters did it. So, you didn't discuss our proposal on the agenda point well. What I'm saying is that the integrity of this House is being preserved in different ways. We couldn't discuss it because we weren't aware of the situation of this House's integrity. Afterwards, visually, and after that and through information, we have found that the dignity of this Parliament has been violated because the persons who did not pass all the identification procedures required by the presence in this room, which is also understood in the part there, because the chairman when he warns, warns and in the part there that someone is acting... On the other hand, we here in this House have brought the dress code, both MPs and staff, as well as guests. And we're breaking two of our procedures here. One procedure: way into this parliament, and another procedure: the way in which this Parliament is present. If you are willing to violate it here for some of our other objectives, we are not prepared to violate this Parliament's procedure in such a way, we are not prepared to destroy the integrity of this 36 Parliament, and we are for the Code of Conduct; if we need to bring this Code of Conduct from the European Parliament, but I have not seen them behave like this in the European Parliament, which we are seeking.
ParlaMint-BA_2010-07-28-0.u36504	Vinko, did you give up, Vinko? VINKO
ParlaMint-BA_2010-07-28-0.u36505	/no microphone turned on/
ParlaMint-BA_2010-07-28-0.u36506	Okay. Well, when you think about it, come in. Azra Alajbegović.
ParlaMint-BA_2010-07-28-0.u36507	Dear Chairman, colleagues and colleagues, I just wanted to say that indeed at the Code of Conduct of the Parliamentary Assembly of BiH was the amendment of the SNSD Club which introduced a delegate into the House of Peoples in front of the Serb people, Mr Drago Ljubičić, and that this amendment on the ban or restriction of any dress related to the style and type of dress, both for parliamentarians and for the employees of the BiH Parliamentary Assembly, was not adopted. So, as far as this Code of Conduct is concerned, we have not adopted that amendment, and that amendment is not in the Code of Conduct, nor is there a restriction in the Code. Thank you.
ParlaMint-BA_2010-07-28-0.u36508	To tell you the truth, I've lost track of how many times he's replicated. This is today looks like just one moment, Mr. Jovičić, the third. Mirko Okolić, discussion on the agenda. HONEY [[Common discussion]]
ParlaMint-BA_2010-07-28-0.u36509	/no microphone turned on/
ParlaMint-BA_2010-07-28-0.u36510	Give me a proposal, give me the exact formula, I'll put it to a vote. I'll put it to the vote, Mr. Kalabić. Here you go, Mr. Kalabić. Give me a formula to vote.
ParlaMint-BA_2010-07-28-0.u36511	Yeah, I said the question we're looking for. So, put our request to the vote – have the conditions for a follow-up been obtained? 37
ParlaMint-BA_2010-07-28-0.u36512	I, as a member of the College, told you my opinion that the conditions were fully met and that there was no interference to work. But here, if you insist on voting.
ParlaMint-BA_2010-07-28-0.u36513	We insist.
ParlaMint-BA_2010-07-28-0.u36514	We have no agreement, Mr. Živković. If you want, gentlemen, the SNSD Club is asking us to state if there are normal conditions for the work of this Parliament? Prepare to vote. [[Common discussion]] Mr. Genjac, it doesn't matter, either people go like this or they go like this... Here you go, sir.
ParlaMint-BA_2010-07-28-0.u36516	Please, I apologize, Chairman.
ParlaMint-BA_2010-07-28-0.u36517	Go ahead, don't worry, I'll give you my word.
ParlaMint-BA_2010-07-28-0.u36518	Every club and every MP has the possibility and legitimate right to the Rules of Procedure to propose a session interruption. There is no business possibility and the right to question the subjective impressions of Parliament, especially in conditions where it is clear that these subjective impressions are motivated by daily political reasons. So you can put the motion to vote to interrupt the session, which everyone has the right to propose and nothing else.
ParlaMint-BA_2010-07-28-0.u36519	So, Mr. Kalabić, Mr. Genjac is right, he's right. HONEY
ParlaMint-BA_2010-07-28-0.u36520	/no microphone turned on/
ParlaMint-BA_2010-07-28-0.u36521	No, no, no, sure he's right, so Mr. Genjac is right, you choose to rephrase the proposal with the explanation you have to interrupt this session. You're looking for a session interruption. 38
ParlaMint-BA_2010-07-28-0.u36522	No, no, no, please. Can I have a word?
ParlaMint-BA_2010-07-28-0.u36523	Well, here you go. _________(?) [[no microphone turned on]] Well, you order, I'll...
ParlaMint-BA_2010-07-28-0.u36525	I beg you, fully respecting what Mr. Genjac said.
ParlaMint-BA_2010-07-28-0.u36526	So this is about a session interruption.
ParlaMint-BA_2010-07-28-0.u36527	It doesn't matter, so it has nothing to do with what I'm talking about. I totally respect that. Mr. Genjac requests an end to the session and let him put an end to it and we'll vote on it, he's right. I'm asking to vote on what's not to do with the session's interruption. So I'm asking because I disagree with your findings. You are obliged to provide the conditions, I believe that they have not been acquired and that Parliament has declared that. If Parliament declares that the conditions for the session have been obtained, there is no interruption.
ParlaMint-BA_2010-07-28-0.u36528	Your right is if you consider that the conditions are not secured (I think they are, You don't think) You do not attend the session until you estimate that the conditions are met.
ParlaMint-BA_2010-07-28-0.u36529	That has nothing to do with Mr. Genjac's proposal, Mr. Chairman. I'm asking us to vote on this.
ParlaMint-BA_2010-07-28-0.u36530	Vinko Zorić. I've got to give the replicas. I've got a few more replicas. Vinko Zorić.
ParlaMint-BA_2010-07-28-0.u36531	Mr. Chairman, I don't agree with you or Mr. Genjac. So whoever feels insecure in subjectively – leave the session. Is this a drive from this House? Why? How else am I going to feel insecure than subjective? I can't feel objectively insecure. Look, please, and he says, yes, it doesn't matter who's saying it, you're right, but you didn't remember the time. What do you mean, you admitted there was no consensus about...? I don't know what this is about, people. I'm scared because I don't know what this is about. Maybe those who have bigger 39 clubs, maybe they're not scared, they can and can defend each other, I'm from a small club, I'm scared. _________(?) [[no microphone turned on]] And Martina's gone, I don't know what this is about, my people. No, seriously, I don't know the reason, but here's Mr. Belkić here said: he was looking for someone here to be, he didn't want to identify himself, and we didn't have a consensus for that person to be.
ParlaMint-BA_2010-07-28-0.u36533	It's not true, he identified himself by name and last name and asked for it. In writing, he requested a name and a last name.
ParlaMint-BA_2010-07-28-0.u36534	Okay, I'm not getting into details. But you said there was no consensus...
ParlaMint-BA_2010-07-28-0.u36535	Yes, it is true, it is true.
ParlaMint-BA_2010-07-28-0.u36536	Then what am I talking about? Only, then, is the question when Mr. Kalabić or, who already Kuzmanović that some procedure had been violated. So no one's saying you're wrong. Mr. Genjac, I feel subjectively insecure. And if that's the reason, go home. So I can go home, I'm no longer running, I can't be at this session and I can't be at the next session, I'm also, I'm not likely to contribute any more or less to the work of a barren parliament, because today I'm not being able to work anymore. I've been sitting here for four hours, I can't work. If someone else were as disabled as I am today, he'd be insolent or he wouldn't object. Probably people don't like to work. Come on, let's let the College, let the Expansive College make some kind of decision whether we're working today or not. Whether to vote on Drago's proposal or to interrupt the session, I don't care if there's no productive work today. If there's no productive work today, it's better for the College to interrupt the session, not for us to compete here. I really didn't want to make my colleagues laugh, not even those behind the cover. I don't know what it's about, who's dressed inappropriately, and if it's a male or female person, if she's armed, I don't know anything. But now I'm subjective to one anxiety, and I'm not going to say fear, because I don't know what this is about. Here.
ParlaMint-BA_2010-07-28-0.u36537	Please pause for 10 minutes. An extended college in the O.R. 40 [[PAUZA]]
ParlaMint-BA_2010-07-28-0.u36538	Ladies and gentlemen, please take your seats, continue our work. In this break also met the College of the House and the Extended College of the House. The House College has proposed, and the Extended College unanimously accepted that for today's 82nd session of the Parliamentary House of BiH I propose to all of you the agenda, and I hope you have it, and that we do not reopen the debate here on the agenda. You can see there's no point of representation here. The proposal is that all of you who have planned to ask parliamentary questions should submit parliamentary questions in writing and will be processed in accordance with the Rules of Procedure. I don't see that there are any different thoughts in the House of Representatives and I find that the House of Representatives for the 82nd session of the House has the following DAY RED 1. The adoption of the minutes of the 81st session of the House of Representatives; 2. Confirmation of the decision to refer members of Bosnia and Herzegovina's Armed Forces to the International Security Assistance Force (ISAF) mission to the Islamic Republic of Afghanistan; 3. Appointment of a member of the Management Board of the Public Radio Television Service of Bosnia and Herzegovina from the Croatian people, material number: 01,02-50-3-916/10 of 12.7.2010 (Rang-list of BiH Regulatory Agency for Communications); 4. The appointment of members to the DTT Forum Expert Committee, material number: 01,02- 29-919/10 of 13.7.2010 (the BiH Ministry of Communications and Transport material); 5. The amendment in the conclusion of the House of Representatives from the 76th session, held on 21.4.2010, concerning the secondment of Deputy Minister of Security Mije Krešić to perform the duties of the Executive Director of the Agency for the Prevention of Corruption and Co-ordination of the fight against corruption; 6. Giving consent to ratification: (a) Agreement between the Council of Ministers of BiH and the Government of the Republic of Serbia in the field of education, culture and sport, (b) Agreement on Economic Cooperation between the Ministry of Foreign Trade and Economic Relations of BiH and the Ministry of Industry and Trade of the Czech Republic, (c) Agreement between Bosnia and Herzegovina and the Czech Republic on Exchange and Security of Secret Information, (e) Agreement on the financing between Bosnia and Herzegovina and the International Association for Development – First Programme Fund for Development Policy of Public Consumption (resorship Ministry: Ministry of Finance and Treasury of BiH), (e) Agreement on the Loan between Bosnia and Herzegovina and the International Bank for Reconstruction and Development – First Program Loan for Public Consumption Development Policy (resoral Ministry of Public Consumption: Ministry of Finance and Treasury of BiH), 41f) Treaty between Bosnia and Herzegovina and the Republic of Serbia on Amendments of the Treaty between Bosnia and Herzegovina and Serbia and the Republic of Serbia and the Republic of Serbia and the Republic of Montenegro on the Security of Serbia and Montenegro on the implementation of the Security of the Security of Security of the Republic of the Republic of the Republic of the EU, the EU and the Europeans, the EU, the EU, the EU, the EU, the Republic of Bosnia and the Republic, the Republic of Bosnia and the Republic of Bosnia and the Republic of Bosnia and the Republic, the Republic, the Republic, the Republic, the Republic, the Republic, the Republic, the Republic of Bosnia and the Republic, the Republic, the Republic, the Republic of Bosnia and the Republic of Bosnia and the Republic, the Republic of Bosnia and the Republic of Bosnia and the Republic, the Republic of Bosnia and the Republic, the Republic of the Republic of the Republic of the Republic of the Republic of the Republic of the Republic of the Republic of the Republic of Bosnia and the Republic of the Republic of the Republic of the Republic of the Republic of the Republic, the Republic of the Republic, the Republic of the Republic of the Republic of the Republic of the Republic of the Republic of the Republic of the Republic of the Republic of Bosnia and the Republic of the Republic of the Republic of the Republic of the Republic of the Republic of the Republic of the Republic of the Republic of the Republic of the Republic of the Republic of the Republic of the Republic of the Republic of the Republic of the Republic of the Republic of the Republic of the Republic of the Republic of the Republic of the Republic of the Republic of the Before moving to the first item of the agenda, I would just like to inform you that all the points planned today will be included in the session agenda to be held 1. Nine this year. Moving to the 1st point of the agenda: Ad. 1. The adoption of the 81st session of the House of Representatives You've all got a record. Any objections? There are no reports. I'm closing the debate. Moving to point two, Ad. 2. Confirmation of the decision to refer members of Bosnia and Herzegovina's Armed Forces to the International Security Assistance Force (ISAF) mission to the Islamic Republic of Afghanistan
ParlaMint-BA_2010-07-28-0.u36541	On behalf of the Defence Commission, Mr. Chairman, as Vice-President of this Commission, the Defence and Security Commission held a session on this matter this morning and as you could see, with the explanation of the BiH Presidency's decision, the foreign, defence, security, financial and legal aspects of this decision were delivered and the Commission supported the Presidency's decision. It proposes to the House of Representatives to support it and to confirm the Bureau's decision to refer 45 members to the mission to Afghanistan. That's it, thank you.
ParlaMint-BA_2010-07-28-0.u36542	Thank you. Dear Representative Momčilo Novaković.
ParlaMint-BA_2010-07-28-0.u36543	Thank you, Mr. Chairman. Here, I'm not going to comment on anything, I'm not going to say anything, except I'm going to read the safety aspects of participation from this document. So he says, "The participation of members of the Armed Forces in the Afghanistan mission will have no greater implications for the threat of BiH security. The second security aspect is the participation of members of the Armed Forces in the peace support operation, in addition to contributing to the BiH affirmation, has the obligation to build and maintain international security." A third, related to the ISAF mission in Afghanistan, noted that all available knowledge related to the rope and wider area of Afghanistan is regularly delivered to the Ministry of Defence. I think any comment on this would be excessive because there is no word here on the security of the members, an assessment of the security of the members of the BiH Armed Forces who are on this mission, or who are to be sent to this mission, and what was the obligation as part of the document on the justification of this decision.
ParlaMint-BA_2010-07-28-0.u36544	I thank the honourable representative. No more reports. I'm closing the debate. 43 We move to point three: Ad. 3. Appointment of a member of the Management Board of the Public Radio Television Service of Bosnia and Herzegovina from the Croatian people, material number: 01,02-50-3-916/10 of 12.7.2010 (Rang-list of BiH Communications Regulatory Agency) In 12.7.2010, the Communications Regulatory Agency submitted a rung list of candidates for a member of the Management Board of the Public Television Service of BiH in the order of the Croatian people, as follows: 1. Maja Lasić; 2. Mario Pejić; 3. Josip Dolić. The responsible Committee for Transport and Communications delivered its opinion on the Rang-list. The Commission accepted the Rang-list and proposed to the House that, in accordance with Article 26(1) of the Law on Public Television Service, a member of the Management Board from the Rang-list of candidates who entered the shortlist. The commission proposes adoption and conclusion to the House, which reads: 'The House of Representatives is asking the competent authorities to unblock the process of selecting members of the BiH Public Television Service Management Board from the Serb people's ranks'. In 27.7.2010, you also received a supplement of your biography for Mr. Mari Pejić. I'm opening a debate. There are no reports. I'm closing the debate. Moving to point four, Ad. 4. Appointment of members to the Professional Commission of the DTT Forum, material number: 01,02-29-919/10 of 13.7.2010 (the BiH Ministry of Communications and Transport material)
