ParlaMint-BA_2010-05-28-0.u7672	Ladies and gentlemen, distinguished colleagues and fellow delegates, present representatives of the Council of Ministers and the international community, the respected representative media, I warmly welcome you. I am opening the 46th session of the House of Peoples of the Parliamentary Assembly of BiH. There are 12 delegates present at the session, each of which is four from each nation. Mr. Mladen Ivanić, Ivo Miro Jović and Hilmo Neimarlija are justly absent and prevented from attending today's session. For the 46th session, I propose the next amended 1. Answers to delegates' questions and delegates' questions; 2. The adoption of the minutes with the 44th and 45th sessions of the House of Peoples; 3. Report by the Joint Commission on the achievement of agreement on the identical text of the Working Time Act, the mandatory vacations of mobile workers and road transport recording devices; 4. Report by the Joint Commission on the achievement of agreement on the identical text of the Law on Amendments and Supplements to the Law on Direct Foreign Investment Policy in Bosnia and Herzegovina; 5. Report by the Joint Commission on the achievement of agreement on the identical text of the Law on Amendments and Supplements to the Law on the Fundamentals of Traffic Safety on Roads in Bosnia and Herzegovina; 6. Request of the Joint Commission for Human Rights, Rights of the Child, Youth, Immigrants, Refugees, Asylum and Ethics to Consider Amendments and Supplements to the Code of Conduct of MPs and delegates in the Parliamentary Assembly of Bosnia and Herzegovina by emergency procedure, in accordance with Article 122. Rules of Procedure of the House of Nations; 7. Proposal for a Law on Amendments and Supplements to the Customs Policy Act of Bosnia and Herzegovina (second reading) – Proposer of the Council of Ministers of BiH; 8. Proposal for a law on the protection of geographical indications (second reading) – Proposer of the Council of Ministers of BiH; 9. Proposal for a Law on the Protection of Topography of Integrated Cars (Second Reading) – Proposer of the Council of Ministers of BiH; 10. Proposal for a Law on Industrial Design (Second Reading) – Proposer of the Council of Ministers of BiH; 11. Proposal for a Mark Act (second reading) – Proposer of the Council of Ministers of BiH; 2 12. Proposal for a patent law (second reading) – Proposer of the BiH Council of Ministers; 13. Proposal for a Law on Amendments and Supplements to the Law on the Financing of Political Parties (first reading) – Delegates Dušanka Majkić, Ilija Filipović and Hazim Rančić; 14. Report on the work of the BiH Council of Ministers for 2009, material of the BiH Council of Ministers; 15. Report on the work of the Office for the Review of Appeals in 2009; 16. Annual report by the Central Bank of Bosnia and Herzegovina for 2009; 17. Financial Report of the Central Bank of Bosnia and Herzegovina for 2009; 18. Work and Business Report on Bosnia and Herzegovina's 2009 Radio-Television (submitted by BiH Radio-Television Management Board); 19. Report on the work of Bosnia and Herzegovina's Attorney General for the period from 1.1.2009 to 31. 12. 2009; 20. A report on the Agency's work on postal traffic in Bosnia and Herzegovina and the 2009 Financial Report; 21. Report on activities on the project "Autoput to Corridor Vc" and Plan of the following activities, material of the Ministry of Communications and Transport of BiH; 22. Report on the work of permanent committees of the People's House for 2009 - Constitutional Commissions, - Finance and Budget Commission, - Commission for Foreign and Trade Policy, Customs, Transport and Communications; 23. Report on the work of the permanent joint committees of both homes for 2009 - Joint Commission on Defence and Security of BiH, - Joint Commission on the Control of the work of the BiH Intelligence and Security Agency, - Joint Commission on Economic Reform and Development, - Joint Commission on Administrative Affairs, - Joint Commission on European Integration, - Joint Commission on Human Rights, Rights of the Child, Youth, Immigration, Refugees, Asylum and Ethics; 24. The appointment of five members of the Independent Commission to monitor the conditions of stay in institutions, conduct and respect for human rights of persons subject to criminal sanctions and other measures imposed in the BiH Court of Justice's criminal proceedings, foreign courts for the crimes provided for by the BiH Criminal Law or an international contract signed by BiH, or another court in accordance with BiH law (proposed list of candidates of the Interim Joint Commission both at home, 30. 3. 2010); 25. Request of the People's House of Investigation Commission to extend the deadline for submitting a report on CEMT licences issued for 2009 to carriers in Bosnia and Herzegovina, 14. 4. 2010; 26. Opinion of the Commission on Finance and Budget on the Request of the Office for Audit for Amendments to the Law on Amendments and Supplements to the Law on the Ministrys and other bodies of the BiH Administration, in the section relating to the definition of the Office for the Audit of BiH institutions as an independent administrative organisation – Link Act No 02-16-1-27510; 27. Giving consent to the ratification of the Funding Agreement between Bosnia and Herzegovina and the Commission of the European Communities concerning multi-user programme 2B, for projects requiring the 2008 Instrument for Pre-accession Assistance Agreement; 3 28. Giving consent to the ratification of the Agreement between Bosnia and Herzegovina and the Republic of Croatia on amendments to the Agreement on mutual enforcement of judicial decisions in criminal matters; 29. Giving consent to the ratification of the Finance Agreement between Bosnia and Herzegovina and the European Investment Bank – Credit of the Investment and Development Bank and Republika Srpska for small and medium-sized enterprises; 30. Giving consent to the ratification of the loan agreement between Bosnia and Herzegovina and the International Bank for Reconstruction and Development (IBRD) – A project to improve access to financial projects for small and medium-sized enterprises; 31. Giving consent to the ratification of the Agreement on financing between Bosnia and Herzegovina and the Commission of the European Communities on a horizontal nuclear safety and radiation protection programme under the 2008 Instrument for Pre-accession Assistance; 32. Giving consent to ratification of the Treaty between Bosnia and Herzegovina and the Republic of Serbia on Amendments and Supplements to the Treaty between Bosnia and Herzegovina and Serbia-Montenegro on Legal Assistance in Civil and Criminal Matters; 33. Giving consent to the ratification of the Convention on the Ban of Cartridge Ammunition, Oslo, 3. 12. In 2008. This is a harmonised agenda for the House of Peoples Colleges. Is anyone answering for a word, is there a change or a supplement? Mrs. Majkić, so... Here you go.
ParlaMint-BA_2010-05-28-0.u7674	Dear colleagues, I propose that point 7 of today's agenda, called 'Proposed Law on Amendments and Supplements to the Law on Customs Policy of Bosnia and Herzegovina (second reading), be removed from today's agenda by the Proposer: The Council of Ministers of BiH. I remind you of the House's decision that, when considering and adopting the bill, the House reached its conclusion in the first reading: 'The House of the Peoples of the Parliamentary Assembly of BiH asks the Management Board of the Directorate for indirect taxation to deliver to the House of Peoples a Opinion on the Proposal for a Law on Amendments and Supplements to the Law on the Customs Policy of Bosnia and Herzegovina before considering the proposed law in the second reading.' Since the Customs Policy Act regulates the area of import duties, which are, by definition, indirect taxes, we do not consider that it is possible for us to make a decision before the decision of the Management Board of indirect taxation. Accordingly, I ask that this point be placed out of today's agenda.
ParlaMint-BA_2010-05-28-0.u7675	Thank you very much. Mr. Branko Zrno, then Alma Čolo. Here you go. 4
ParlaMint-BA_2010-05-28-0.u7676	Thank you very much, Chairman. I have a proposal to supplement the agenda and do it the following way. I propose to include the agenda of the agenda as follows: 'Anointing the acting director of the Anti-Corruption Agency and coordinating the fight against corruption'. Reason: It is a function that is the condition of the visa-free regime for BiH citizens, and part of that explanation is the decision of the House of Representatives, I quote: "The House of Representatives appointed Mije Krešić, Deputy Minister of Security of BiH, as director of the Agency for the Prevention of Corruption and Co-ordination of the fight against corruption." The conclusions of the House of Representatives have been adopted (in order for us to adopt the same conclusion, so that our decision would be an identical decision to the House of Representatives), I read: 'The House of Representatives of the BiH Parliamentary Assembly is in charge of BiH Deputy Minister of Security Mije Krešić to perform the duties of the Director of the Agency for the Prevention of Corruption and Co-ordination of the fight against Corruption until the election of the Agency's Director under the Anti-Corruption and Co-ordination Act (the Official Messenger of BiH)'. 103/09), and at the latest, this is important, 'up to 1. 8. 2010. 'years.' Please accept this proposal and put this item on the agenda to solve this problem as well. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-BA_2010-05-28-0.u7677	Thank you very much. Alma Čolo. Here you go.
ParlaMint-BA_2010-05-28-0.u7678	Thank you, Chairman. I am obliged, on behalf of the Commission for Foreign and Trade Policy, to give an explanation relating to point 7 which is now on the agenda, which is the Proposal for a Law on Amendments and Supplements to the Customs Policy Act. It is true that the House has tasked the Commission to request the opinion of the Directorate for indirect taxation before this law is found before the Commission at the second commission stage and it is true that this opinion should have been obtained before the House's meeting. We have sent a request to the Directorate for indirect taxation but... until the date of the meeting of the Commission we have not received an answer and the Commission has been governed by the provisions of the Law on an indirect taxation system which, in Article 14, prescribes the competence of the Management Board of the Direct Taxation Board. Article 14 does not stipulate that the Management Board shall give its opinion on the laws contained in the parliamentary procedure, but only that the Management Board may propose laws and amendments and additions to those laws relating to indirect taxes if it considers that this is necessary for the implementation of the Law on the indirect taxation system. 5 This law, which is now on the agenda, does not impose new taxes, it only only only extends the time-limits for the payment of customs debt from three to 10 years, and it is in the interest of the BiH budget. It means that customs debt can also be charged for a period of more than three years, which is in fact a alignment with the European Commission's regulation No 450/2008. and with EU customs law, which also prescribes the same limitation period, which is 10 years old. And of course it is in BiH's interest that the customs debt of all customs officials can be charged in a period that is not so short, and we think that three years is a short term, and the Ministry of Foreign Trade and Economic Relations, which has been prepared by this law, has explained it in the light of the law. The law passed the procedure at the Council of Ministers, adopted at the House of Representatives, and I don't think there's any reason for this point to be removed from the agenda. Thank you.
ParlaMint-BA_2010-05-28-0.u7679	Mrs. Majkić.
ParlaMint-BA_2010-05-28-0.u7680	It will not be good if we break the practice that when it comes to indirect taxes, and customs policy is related to indirect taxes, if we violate this principle, because at that time we will injure, not only the Law on the indirect taxation system in BiH, but also this agreement on jurisdiction in the area of indirect taxation concluded between the prime minister of the Federation, the prime minister of the RS and the Office of the High Representative, who explicitly states that when establishing an institutional and organisational basis for the single system of indirect taxation, BiH is obliged to ensure that the policy of indirect taxation is established by the Management Board in which representatives of both entities enter. Maybe, I'm afraid to ask what would happen if there wasn't a positive response from the board of directors, and we made a decision. So, I also ask you when we spoke in the first reading and then we adopted, and then I said we wouldn't be able to vote if we didn't have the board's decision. Don't let us break the law, and don't let us respect the decisions we've made on our own.
ParlaMint-BA_2010-05-28-0.u7681	Thank you very much. Is anyone else answering? Božo Ljubić, then Adem. Here you go.
ParlaMint-BA_2010-05-28-0.u7682	Mr. Chairman, therefore, I support the College's proposal on the agenda. I must also say that regardless of the proposal to extend the agenda for the appointment of the interim leadership of the Anti-Corruption Agency, it is not the position of this Hrvat and we do not support the inclusion of it in the agenda. 6
ParlaMint-BA_2010-05-28-0.u7683	Thank you very much. Adem Ibrahimpašić. Here you go.
ParlaMint-BA_2010-05-28-0.u7684	Thank you, Chairman. I'd just say that I've been under some kind of pressure from some firms to make this difficult for a month so someone doesn't get out of time and someone's tax-deprecated act. Of course not. I can't think of anything. Thank you.
ParlaMint-BA_2010-05-28-0.u7685	Thank you. Alma Čolo, again. Here you go.
ParlaMint-BA_2010-05-28-0.u7686	Well, I have this agreement between the government of the Federation of BiH and the government of the RS. Indeed, the indirect taxation policy is determined by the Management Board, however, the question is whether this is a policy of indirect taxation or whether this is a harmonisation of the law with EU rules, which BiH is bound by the Stabilisation and Association Agreement with the EU.
ParlaMint-BA_2010-05-28-0.u7687	All right, let's just see, if the Serbian Club isn't up for this, then we can't put it on the agenda, we don't want to drop the law. Mr. Ilija Filipović. Here you go.
ParlaMint-BA_2010-05-28-0.u7688	My respects. Thank you for your word. I welcome all those present who follow today's work. So to get out of this problem, it really wouldn't be good to drop this proposal to amend and supplement this law. If we're going to beat it, then we're going to get to that state... that the bill doesn't exist. We discussed it at the College and discussed two possibilities. One option is to take it off the agenda, and another is to keep it on the agenda, but to delay a statement today about it until it comes to us, so according to this conclusion of the House of Peoples,...the opinion of the Management Committee for Indirect Taxation. Someone would say it's the same. It's not exactly the same, it's a little bit of that, actually, yeah, but it's a little different. Let's get the Management Board in a position to question the decline of the amendment proposal and the addition of this law unless it releases the conclusion of this home. This home is equal in all powers as well as the House of Representatives and to teach some state agencies and bodies to respect both homes. This respects both themselves and the BiH Parliamentary Assembly. 7 So, to get out of this situation, I would ask my colleague Dušanka to accept that we are not having this debate today, to renew, so through the Secretariat, the conclusion of the House, to re-deliver it to the Management Board for indirect taxation, and that no opinion has come to the next session, to put it on the agenda. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-BA_2010-05-28-0.u7689	Thank you very much. Here, I have consulted Mrs. Majkić, and she agrees with this as Mr. Filipović has just said that we still have a statement on Mr. Branko Zrn's proposal, which is to include the agenda item 'Anointing the director of the Agency for the Prevention of Corruption and Co-ordination of the fight against corruption', for these reasons that are mentioned here. I'd like to make a statement about this proposal. Who Is For? Who Is “against ”? With two votes "against", I realize that we adopted this proposal and this item of the agenda would be 25, so the rest of the points move on. I realize we've adopted the agenda with this supplement. Moving to point one: Ad. 1. Answers to Legislative Questions and Delegative Questions In preparation for this session at the College, we agreed to go with the answers to the delegates' questions, and to eventually give up the delegates' questions this time, try to get the House of Peoples' session to the juma, until about 13.00, if possible. If he can't, we'll move on later. So if we don't finish by 1:00, about 12:45, then we'll take a break by 1400 hours. The answer to the delegate's questions came from the delegate Hilmo Neimarlija (he is not present today); the delegate Slobodan Šaraba received an answer to the question asked at the 39th session of the House of Nations, and the answer came from the Ombudsman for Alma Čolo and response from the Council of Ministers; then the emergency to deliver the said answer – the response from the State Agency for Investigation and Protection asked at the 44th session, the response from the Ombudsman for Human Rights and Response from the Council of BiH; then delegate Mladen Ivanić (he is not there); delegate Adem Ibrahimpašić received an answer to the question asked at the 43rd session of the House of Nations; delegate Ivo Miro Jović received... (he is also not there); delegate Dušanka Majkić received the answer to the question asked at the 44th meeting of the House of Nations; delegate Koprivica Rančić received the answer to the question asked to the 44th session of the House of the People; the House; the question was raised by the President of the People; the answer to the question was asked. 8 Are Delegates satisfied with the answer, yes or no? Delegate of the Slobodan Šaraba.
ParlaMint-BA_2010-05-28-0.u7691	Thank you, Mr. Chairman. Here, we finally started getting answers and the Council of Ministers started working on this at least, but I think it's too late. So I have three answers that I have received and I have to say that with two absolutely unsatisfactory, with one, I don't know how to comment, I'm satisfied, but the answer to that question is, that is, the Council of Ministers' decision came only after my question. So, the first question I asked about the appointment in the Council of National Minorities in front of the representatives of the Montenegrin national minority and the question I referred to the Ombudsman's institution was absolutely unsatisfactory for one basic reason, which, as it stands in this response I received, the Ombudsman entered into the discussion of this issue by calling on the Law on Discrimination of Discrimination. Our goal here was only to achieve one solution that could not be reached by the agreement of the national minority's representatives, so the aim of our decision was compromise. On the other hand, it seems to me that the Ombudsman, with his reply, is entering the policy sphere because, at point 4, he finds that the candidacy was supported by the Embassy of Montenegro and the OSCE. This is absolutely not important for the Ombudsman and does not need to enter such findings. And of course, point 8. where they deny themselves and where they say that the Joint Committee on Human Rights, the rights of the child, youth and immigration has the right to change the term of office of each member during the term of office. So they deny themselves by giving the Commission the right for such a decision and for such a proposal. As for the second answer I received from the SIPA director, related to persons providing operational security services, that's the answer that stepped halfway through the page. I set it up in November, I got it in April, so it took Reverend Lujić six months to write this. So, this is a very bad and very bad message of co-operation and relations for me, but obviously Mr Lujić has some more pressing jobs such as protecting his boss's character and actions, so he's not coming to address and he's not here to answer the questions asked by his MPs. And, of course, the third question I asked, and as for the adoption of the police agency regulations, I'm pleased that these rules have been adopted. I asked the question on April 9th and the rules were adopted on April 24th, so 15 days after that question, so I guess it has also, in a certain way, affected the Council of Ministers to fulfil its obligation. Thank you.
ParlaMint-BA_2010-05-28-0.u7692	That's nice. It seems the election campaign has already begun. 9 Lord Adem Ibrahimpašić.
ParlaMint-BA_2010-05-28-0.u7693	Thank you, Chairman. The question was, "Why is the money planned in the budget for eligible fairs spent on fairs organised in BiH and not on fairs organised outside to help the export economy?" Well, I'm pleased to say that in this year, compared to last year, a lot more of these funds were planned for fairs outside than for fairs in BiH, while in last year, much more of that money was spent on the organisation of fairs in BiH rather than outside. So, I'm satisfied, although this relationship could be even more drastic in favour of fairs that would help our export economy out as much as it can. Thank you.
ParlaMint-BA_2010-05-28-0.u7694	Thank you very much. Delegate Dušanka Majkić.
ParlaMint-BA_2010-05-28-0.u7695	Satisfied.
ParlaMint-BA_2010-05-28-0.u7696	Satisfied. Delegate Hazim Rančić, perhaps.
ParlaMint-BA_2010-05-28-0.u7697	Thank you very much, Your Honor. Dear colleagues and colleagues, therefore, I received a reply from the BiH Institutions Audit Office, whose essence... is that there is a request from the Commission for Finance and the House of Representatives budget for conducting a special audit in this institution, Elektropresnos BiH. However, the director reports that the director of Elektroprenos, under quotes, slammed the door in front of his nose and did not allow him to perform his audit. So, I am not satisfied with the response that exists and the Commission's conclusion on finance and the budget of the House of Representatives is in force, and I insist on carrying out this special audit, why BiH's audit is competent. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-BA_2010-05-28-0.u7698	Thank you very much. Delegate Alma Čolo. 10
ParlaMint-BA_2010-05-28-0.u7699	Well, I didn't get an answer to my question at all. The High Court and Prosecutor's Council answered me something completely different. I asked if prosecutors who filed and represented indictments that were completed by a liberating verdict could be elected to more office because the prosecutor's election values the work so far in the profession. However, the High Judicial and Prosecutorial Council has told me that those prosecutors who have been indicted and who have ended up with a strong acquittal can be candidates for office, which I think is out of my mind. And I really don't want to ask the question again, but when there's a report from the High Court and Prosecutor's Council, I'm going to ask the President directly, because here today we have a report on the work of the BiH Attorney's Office and we see how much the state costs... liberating judgments, how much they cost the state from the budget, not only the state, but also entities and cantons. These are huge amounts of funds paid for material and immaterial damage to persons deprived of freedoms, illegally detained and deprived of freedoms and a processed long period of time. Thank you.
ParlaMint-BA_2010-05-28-0.u7700	Thank you very much. Delegate Drago Ljubičić. Here you go.
ParlaMint-BA_2010-05-28-0.u7701	I thank you, Mr. Chairman. Gentlemen of the College, colleagues and colleagues of the House, gentlemen of the Council of Ministers, distinguished guests, I am not satisfied with the answer I have received to my question. Here, let me briefly explain why. The answer shows that the BiH Ministry of Security is not responsible for these developments. For me, however, it is something else interesting in this response, that the BiH Ministry of Security has no information about these events, which the information funds have written about, which sends me a bad message that they are not interested at all. I accept that they are not an operational body, but that they do not possess any information related to this issue I cannot accept, because such developments in BiH are a threat to the citizens and are very dangerous to BiH, in my opinion. I expected at least a different answer, that it was in the process, that they had information, that they were following it, that they were expecting it, etc., and here's the answer I got. Thank you.
ParlaMint-BA_2010-05-28-0.u7702	Thank you very much. Delegate Zoran Koprivica. Here you go. 11
ParlaMint-BA_2010-05-28-0.u7703	Thank you, Mr. Chairman. I also welcome everyone present at today's session. At the 43rd session of the House of Peoples, I asked the Council of Ministers, which concerned the review of all established state institutions of BiH with the exact seat of the same and their possible organisational parts in other places, as well as the number of employees in them. I received information from the Council of Ministers who is indeed comprehensive and it shows that in BiH out of 71 state institutions, on 30. Six. In 2009, 57 was based in Sarajevo, and 14 in all other places in BiH, two in eastern Sarajevo, four in Banja Luka, five in Mostar, two in Tuzla, one in Konjic. This gives a clear picture that in more than 90% of the cases the headquarters of these institutions is located in Sarajevo and a clear picture and performance is obtained that the provisions of the BiH Constitution on the equality of its constituent peoples, entities, or policies of the even deployment of these institutions throughout BiH. One information that can certainly serve as the basis for some other discussions. I thank the Council of Ministers for the comprehensive and complete information I have asked for.
ParlaMint-BA_2010-05-28-0.u7704	Thank you very much. I, of course, must ask, in accordance with the Rules of Procedure, whether there are any new delegate questions, regardless of the position of the College. Mr. Slobodan Šaraba, please. We can't deny it, normally.
ParlaMint-BA_2010-05-28-0.u7705	Thank you, Mr. Chairman. So, with all due respect to your desire to be operational, I don't think we should deny the right of delegates to ask questions and bring out something that's significant. So I'm going to ask my question, it's a little longer, I'm going to try to cut it short, and I got it from the Giranate Association of BiH that was formed about a month ago here in Sarajevo. It is a letter that these people find extremely important and I will try briefly to raise and ask a question and direct it to the Council of Ministers. So, in BiH, other people's loans are currently being returned to more than 200,000 giraffes, with largely the chains of cheated jury by one debtor and more banks and microcredit organisations. The jury realized that it was an elaborate, organized project of mass fraud by banks, unremembered in these premises, with the aim of assembling money, recalibrating debtors' clients. The fraud scenario has been exposed and has mostly been reduced to the following. At the time of the signing of the loan agreement, the bank knowingly disregards the creditworthiness of the debtor, while at the same time failing to enter the debtor's material liability clause into the contract or in a special contract transfers it to the jury. The bank shall not impose a criminal liability on the debtor relating to the concealment or counterfeiting of the debtor's credit liability and the additional borrowing of 12 other banks or microcredit organisations. Finally, the last way of tricking a jury is determined by means of the Law on Bond Relations, in particular Article 1018. The bond law. With this fact, no bank had previously warned or met the jury for a simple reason because no one in this case would accept the role of a jury. That's why many jury members are dying of a stroke right now, committing suicide because of the inability to pay back other people's money and insecurity by the state. These scenarios and frauds could not be realised without whispering to bank officials. Realizing that credit agreements do not have their material or criminal responsibilities, debtors have gone into business. Independent legal experts are unique in the view that the jury was deceived at the moment when they put their signature on the contract in all cases where the banks had not previously met the jury on the credit liability of the banks, and these were due under the law, and when the debtors had not previously asked for a study on the profitability of their business and, of course, when the jury had not previously met Article 1018. The bond law. That's why I'm asking this question to the Council of Ministers. I ask the Council of Ministers as one co-ordinator to forward this issue to the Ministry of Justice, the Banking Agency, the Association of BiH banks, the BiH Ombudsman and the Ombudsman for Consumers: 'What are they intending to do to protect these institutions in order to protect the deceived citizens of BiH by ino banks and microcredit organisations?' Thank you, Mr. Chairman.
ParlaMint-BA_2010-05-28-0.u7706	Thank you very much. Mr. Božo Ljubić. Here you go.
ParlaMint-BA_2010-05-28-0.u7707	Mr. Chairman, I didn't want to go deaf about your request first. But once it's started, I'm going to ask a truly short question... The question is: "Is it formed and if it is not at what stage is the Platna agencija in the Ministry of Foreign Trade and Economic Relations of BiH formed?" Namely, our obligation under the Association Agreement is a single agricultural policy. The EU's stances require the establishment of a payment system as a component of EU funds management and insists on setting up an IPARD paying agency for IPARD funds at BiH level. When shall we fulfill this obligation?' Thank you. 13
ParlaMint-BA_2010-05-28-0.u7708	Thank you very much. Here comes Adem Ibrahimpašić. Every club, one at a time. It's okay, go ahead.
ParlaMint-BA_2010-05-28-0.u7709	I thought I'd respect it when it wasn't them, so here I'll spend maybe 30 seconds. So, at a joint session of the two houses of the BiH Parliamentary Assembly, which was held on 24th. 2. In 2010, I asked the Council of Ministers the following question: "What does the Council of Ministers intend to do to ensure that our goods are exported to CEFTA countries in the same treatment, i.e. the conditions of what kind of goods are exported from these countries to the BiH market?" At that meeting, a representative of the Ministry of Foreign Trade and Economic Relations informed us that an agreement on mutual recognition of goods quality certificates with Serbia was already signed, and that it was scheduled for 4 March 2010 to meet with a delegation of the Republic of Croatia where the same agreement would be signed with the Republic of Croatia. Question: 'Are the agreements on mutual recognition of the goods quality certificate really signed from the two countries and if so why are our companies still having the same problem when exporting their goods to those countries?' Thank you.
ParlaMint-BA_2010-05-28-0.u7710	Thank you very much. There are no new delegates anymore, and I am concluding this agenda point. Before I move to agenda number two, I'd like to take the opportunity to congratulate Mrs. Majkić, she's got a grandson. I also want my granddaughter to have a lot of health (grandson, whether male, male is), here is a lot of health, happiness, success and her as a grandmother. We're going to the second item of the agenda: Ad. 2. The adoption of the minutes with the 44th and 45th session of the House of Peoples Is anyone answering for a word? First we discuss the minutes of the 44th session of the House of Peoples. If no one answers their word, can we adopt it? Who Is For? Who Is “against ”? "Contained"? There isn't. 14 I find that we have adopted the minutes of the 44th session. We're going to the 45th session. Any objections? There isn't. Who Is For? ‘Non’? "Contained"? There isn't. Also, I'm guessing we've adopted a 45th-session record. Moving to the 3rd point of the agenda: Ad. 3. Report by the Joint Commission of both homes on the achievement of agreement on the identical text of the Labour Time Act, the mandatory holidays of mobile workers and road transport recording devices
ParlaMint-BA_2010-05-28-0.u7713	Short, Mr. Chairman. Therefore, the subject of the agreement of the Joint Commission was the amandman adopted at the House of Peoples session, which reads: 'Nearer provisions on seal markings and accompanying documentation and the way of appointment of the Commission for workshops referred to in Article 18(3) of this Law are prescribed by the Minister in co-operation with the Institute and entity institutions. The Joint Commission unanimously accepted the text of this law with the adopted and agreed amendment and proposed that the House adopt it."
ParlaMint-BA_2010-05-28-0.u7714	I'm opening a hearing if anyone answers. Can we vote? Who Is For? ‘Non’? "Contained"? There isn't. I agree that we adopted the Joint Commission Report and thus agreed to the text of the Labour Time Act, the mandatory vacations of mobile workers and road transport recording devices. Point 4. 15 Ad. 4. Report by the Joint Commission on the achievement of agreement on the identical text of the Law on Amendments and Supplements to the Law on Direct Foreign Investment Policy in Bosnia and Herzegovina You've reached the Joint Commission's report. The Joint Commission adopted one amendment. The House of Representatives adopted the Joint Commission Report. I give the word to Branko Zrn, if there's any need, and we vote right now.
ParlaMint-BA_2010-05-28-0.u7716	We have everything here, thank you very much. I suggest we do the same.
ParlaMint-BA_2010-05-28-0.u7717	Can we vote? Who Is For? Is there anyone “against ”? "Contained"? There isn't. I agree that we also unanimously adopted this report and thus agreed the text of the Law on Foreign Direct Investment Policy in BiH. Point 5. Ad. 5. Report by the Joint Commission on the achievement of agreement on the identical text of the Law on Amendments and Supplements to the Law on the Fundamentals of Traffic Safety on the Roads to BiH You've reached the Joint Commission's report. The Joint Commission adopted six amendments that have become an integral part of this law. The House of Representatives adopted the Joint Commission Report. I give my word to Dear Ljubičić, whom this commission has appointed rapporteur.
ParlaMint-BA_2010-05-28-0.u7719	I thank you, Mr. Chairman. Well, just for a little while. Here you have seen, I can only say that the amendments adopted by this House were essentially and were subject to the consent of the Joint Commission. The colleagues from the House of Representatives in the Joint Commission did not accept these amendments adopted by the House and here we now agree on the text as it is. There's nothing special about it anymore. 16
ParlaMint-BA_2010-05-28-0.u7720	Can we vote? Who is "for" this harmonised text? Is there anyone “against ”? There isn't. "Contained"? There isn't. I find that we have adopted the Joint Commission's report and hence the text of this law. Moving to the sixth item of the agenda: Ad. Six. Request of the Joint Commission for Human Rights, Rights of the Child, Youth, Immigrants, Refugees, Asylum and Ethics to Consider Amendments and Supplements to the Code of Conduct of MPs and delegates in the Parliamentary Assembly of Bosnia and Herzegovina by emergency procedure, in accordance with Article 122. Rules of Procedure of the House of Peoples In accordance with Article 122. The Rules of Procedure of the House of Peoples on the request for an urgent consideration shall be decided by the House after the debate. The amendments don't apply. The House of Representatives adopted this request by the Joint Commission and subsequently amended and complemented the Code of Conduct of MPs and delegates in the BiH Parliamentary Assembly. I'm opening a debate. Mrs. Majkić.
ParlaMint-BA_2010-05-28-0.u7722	Dear colleagues and colleagues, well-respected present, so, for too long, indeed, this story of the Codex itself is taking place. And what we proposed two years ago how to amend this law in terms of adding competence to the Joint Administrative Commission is now done, but some of the new dilemmas that have been put into this Article 1 have been introduced, and that is why it requires amendment action. I ask you and I suggest that given that it is an emergency adoption, but that it would not be a good idea to adopt it like this, as the committee in charge has conjectured, that instead of an emergency procedure, we have a shortened procedure on this. Thank you.
ParlaMint-BA_2010-05-28-0.u7723	Božo Rajić answered the question. Here you go, Mr. Rajić.
ParlaMint-BA_2010-05-28-0.u7724	Thank you, Mr. Chairman. I welcome all present. The promoter didn't convince me by any argument as to why an emergency procedure was needed. It's like a system law that depends on the lives of citizens and their safety or their economic position. This is really one push for no good reason. I'm also 17 against an emergency procedure. In part two, when we make a statement about the procedure, I'll also say what I think about this in general. Thank you.
ParlaMint-BA_2010-05-28-0.u7725	Okay. Delegate Zoran Koprivica. Here you go.
ParlaMint-BA_2010-05-28-0.u7726	I'll just take a moment, Mr. Chairman. Since I was a participant in this session of the Human Rights Commission, as we know, the Codex was adopted at the end of 2008. Some of the remarks that have been made in the current procedure in practice and the shortcomings that we have received from individual MPs and delegates, we have considered on this committee. First of all, the comments in the process of drawing up the Regulation... which is the implementing act implementing the Code in practice in the procedures that may be followed and the observations made by the Joint Commission on Administrative Affairs - we have considered and accepted all of the comments. They were, above all, concerned by these procedures, i.e. starting with the submission of applications, who has the right to submit applications and how the procedures and procedures provided for in this Regulation are conducted, and in this very sense these main amendments and are envisaged. First of all, it is said here in Article 23(3) that the following changes are made: 'The elected official against whom the application was filed and the applicant of the application referred to in Article (2) of this article may lodge an appeal to the Joint Commission for Administrative Affairs of the Parliamentary Assembly of BiH instead of the Joint College.' So that's the main change. As for these other proposed amendments, it is foreseen here that a fine of up to 50% for the elected official of the parliamentary co-chairs is also proposed that up to 10% of the total monthly income may be imposed. That's where we've now received certain remarks in that sense. I don't think we would be wrong if we accepted this proposal from Ms. Majkić to go along with this brief procedure so that we could give the MPs and delegates the opportunity to possibly make their amendments to these proposed amendments and supplement the Code and finally put an end to the adoption of this act.
ParlaMint-BA_2010-05-28-0.u7727	Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-BA_2010-05-28-0.u7728	/no microphone turned on/
ParlaMint-BA_2010-05-28-0.u7729	Just to mention, before I give my word, that we at the College have accepted this proposal to go according to a shortened procedure, but here I am opening the debate, continue. Here you go, sir. 18
ParlaMint-BA_2010-05-28-0.u7730	Mr. Koprivic, with all the effort you've read to us what we have ahead of us, there's no need to do that, we can read it ourselves. You've made no argument for an emergency procedure. No one is the only one who has reason to seek an emergency procedure. Because when the promoter asks for an emergency procedure, then he says that, that, because of the possible consequences. What are these reasons to make us ask for an emergency procedure? And you're the Proposer, the Committee for Gender Equality. If you're the promoter, I haven't heard one word from you why you're asking for it. I can understand that you're looking for a change, but an emergency procedure doesn't.
ParlaMint-BA_2010-05-28-0.u7731	Okay. Can we go to a brief procedure, as Mrs. Majkić suggested, that we no longer conduct the debate? Who Is For? Who Is “against ”? One “against, ” one“ abstention. ” Maybe I should have put the first vote on who was in the emergency procedure and, as far as I could see from the debate, here's the position of the College, which is why I skipped it. Okay, well, here we decided to run it by a brief procedure. Moving to the 7th point of the agenda: Ad. Seven. Proposal for a Law on Amendments and Supplements to the Customs Policy Act of Bosnia and Herzegovina (second reading) We agreed at the adoption of the agenda to postpone the plea until the next session and to reach a conclusion calling on the Management Board of the Direct Taxation Authority to plead, to deliver an opinion on our earlier conclusion. We've already instructed once, but here's another way to re-establish that conclusion through the ER. Can we conclude that? Who Is For? There is no one “against. ” "Contained"? I figure we're done with this agenda point, too. Moving to 8th point: Ad. 8. Proposal for a law on the protection of geographical indications (second reading) 19
ParlaMint-BA_2010-05-28-0.u7739	That's right. You've received a report from the committee in charge, he's clear, but I'd like to say just a few words as to why there's even been an amendment to the Law on the financing of political parties, which, however, at the time when the Interresor Working Group was formed was conceived very ambitiously, at the end of the 21st century ended very modestly. And that's probably because this year's election, and in that year, it's hard to make some big changes. There were suggestions to go on a complete change, to pass a new law, but for this we could not achieve agreement, so here you have certain shortcomings that the Central Election Commission has seen, or some things that have not been defined, are not defined enough, or should be defined differently – here they are now represented. Basically, it emphasizes here where political parties can provide funds. The issue of restrictions is identified in a different way than provided for in the current law. With the current eight average salaries, we have a change in the amount of the total contributions of one natural person in one calendar year, the political party must not exceed eight average salaries without the total amount of all contributions of one legal person in one calendar year being allowed to exceed 15 average net salaries. This is a significant change compared to the existing one. The obligation of political parties which are obliged to keep records of all contributions of natural and legal persons and their obligation to issue an appropriate certificate for the funds they have received is also laid down. It is determined from where other funds cannot be accepted by political parties. So, it's mostly thought of companies that do public services on the basis of contracts with the government. Such companies cannot finance political parties. And it was set for the political party to inform the Central Election Commission in the event of any change in the assets of the political party. So here, I just briefly took the opportunity to say a few words and as a proposing, and you have a Commission report that unanimously supported this bill in the first reading. Thank you.
ParlaMint-BA_2010-05-28-0.u7740	I'm opening a debate. Mr. Božo Rajić picked up the phone. Here you go.
ParlaMint-BA_2010-05-28-0.u7741	Mr. Chairman, exactly, in the report you received, the Committee on Budget and Finance unanimously accepted the principles of this law. However, I am obliged to show myself about what I was talking about on this committee, about the reasons why I accepted it, although it was against my belief that such a bill should be adopted. So there are two reasons. The first is the reason why the proposer, therefore the working group had before it the opinion of the BiH Ministry of Justice, which... in the general remark says that the BiH Ministry of Justice proposes, in accordance with Article 46... The Single Rules for the Making of Legal Rules, to access the adoption of a new law, since the Proposal for a Law on Amendments and Supplements to the Law on the Financing of Political Parties is amended, i.e. by more than half of the members of the Law on the Financing of Political Parties. And then we got an interpretation during the session of the Bureau of Law that the only rules for the making of legal regulations are of a secular nature and that they don't commit anyone. Then I don't understand why they exist, because we have turned down a few very important system laws in the current 22 practices by relying on these rules... especially when it comes to the Public Procurement Act and some other very important laws for the life of this country. Then I was given the argument that the House of Representatives, which is not the first time to force us, asked us for some exorcised solutions and that he passed the law, or his principles in such a way, and then I accepted the criteria not to be a black sheep among the white ones, and I remained white, even though I am showing today a reserve of what I voted there. Another reason why I think that we should consider when we are discussing this law today is the very clear opposition of some civil society associations, especially the Centre of Civil Initiatives, which warns that the amendments and additions of this law are discriminatory in relation to all opposition parties in BiH, because by limiting possible sources of revenue to finance campaigns, and in the country, and in particular by denying the possibility of obtaining funds outside, are being brought into an unequal position with the parties that are the position, i.e. with more powerful parties. So, I don't think we should stay insolent, not have a sense of these signals and these warnings, first, this legally and morally, so we don't just get into the mechanical decision-making process. So for that reason, I will at least be restrained when it comes to the principles of this law. Thank you.
ParlaMint-BA_2010-05-28-0.u7742	Thank you very much. Mr. Slobodan Šaraba. Here you go.
ParlaMint-BA_2010-05-28-0.u7743	Thank you, Mr. Chairman. So I will not give my vote to this law and I believe that the laws of this form, i.e. such important laws as the Law on the financing of political parties and the Election Law, should not be changed directly before the political campaign. I think it should be done a year or two earlier in a quieter atmosphere when the law can be looked at more soberly and approach its consideration in a completely different way than it is done today. From the very text of this law, it is evident that the basis to allow natural and legal persons to be able to give more money to political parties than was possible so far, which suggests that it is a clear conclusion that the current government may have problems with how to get money so give: natural persons that they can pay eight salaries, how they will live when they pay eight salaries to the political party, 12 months should live, so from those four salaries. And of course, legal persons can give 15 average salaries, which clearly points to the conclusion that the number of legal entities, who want to help, is being reduced, so those who are willing to push to give more money than they have so far. And of course, the essential question here is that the term of legal persons is clearly not precise. The fact is that the reason for the possibility is, it stands which are legal persons, but I think that part 23 of the reasoning needs to be transposed into this law and should be clearly and precisely said that public enterprises cannot single out money for political parties. So at this point, they don't need these changes, they shouldn't be accepted, and I think this serves the political parties in power to solve certain issues that they couldn't solve in this way by adopting this law. Thank you.
ParlaMint-BA_2010-05-28-0.u7744	Thank you very much. Delegate Adem Ibrahimpašić. Here you go.
ParlaMint-BA_2010-05-28-0.u7745	Thank you, Chairman. I've had a lot of reservations about this change, too. On this committee, after all, I voted yes, and now I just want to announce that I'm going to vote now, because it's the first reading. So I need to and I can change some things, get them dressed. But here's what I want you to know that I have a spare and I'm going to make sure that I continue to intervene. Thank you.
ParlaMint-BA_2010-05-28-0.u7746	Hazim Rančić. Here you go.
ParlaMint-BA_2010-05-28-0.u7747	Dear colleagues and colleagues, in the Interresor Working Group for the construction of this law, was a respected minister, Bariša Čolak, a full-fledged member of this task force. And there we agreed to split up and sign this law the way we did in both the House of Representatives and the House of Peoples regarding the Election Law and the Law on the financing of political parties. These amendments and additions are to specify and improve the existing text of the law. He does not go to the harm of these smaller or, I do not know, opposition parties, however he will, and the opinion of the Honorable Minister has been given on the date of May 10th, and on May 13th is the protocol in Parliament, and the law itself is proposed on March 23rd, or on March 30th, protocold here in Parliament. So it's about some subsequent interventions. But I'm not arguing. Here, when there's an amendment phase, whoever thinks something needs to be fixed can fix it. And those who think this could've been a year or two ago, they had a chance but they didn't. What aren't they? But they don't have to put that on the other one. Thank you.
ParlaMint-BA_2010-05-28-0.u7748	Okay, thank you very much. We can approach the vote if no one answers the word anymore. Who Is For? Is there anyone “against ”? 24 In addition to three "abstained" votes, I find that the proposal for a law on amendments and amendments to the Law on the financing of political parties was adopted in the first reading. Moving to the 14th point of the agenda: Ad. 14. BiH Council of Ministers 2009 Work Report The Council of Ministers is 22. 2. 2010 submitted to the parliamentary procedure Work Report. The House College urged the committees of the House of Peoples and the joint committees of both homes to deliver an opinion on this report each of their responsibilities. The Commission forwarded its opinions other than the Joint Commission on the surveillance of the work of the Intelligence and Security Agency. In accordance with Rule 156(2) of the Rules of Procedure of the House of Peoples, the House of Nations is considering this report. Before I open a debate on this agenda point, I say, is there anyone in front of the Council of Ministers who is in charge. The secretary general can, Mr. Kutleša, if he has to, he's here. I'm opening a debate. If no one answers their question, we're voting on a report on the work of the Council of Ministers.
ParlaMint-BA_2010-05-28-0.u7750	There's Božo Ljubić.
ParlaMint-BA_2010-05-28-0.u7751	And Božo Ljubić, okay. Here you go, sir.
ParlaMint-BA_2010-05-28-0.u7752	Mr. Chairman, therefore, we have a very extensive report on the work of the Council of Ministers. This report has been segmentally discussed on individual committees and I personally participated in a few of these committees and, of course, we appreciated that it was methodological, so to speak, satisfactorily done. However,... so I did not make a personal statement, I do not know whether any commission on this is in general about the acceptability or assessment of the work of the Council of Ministers, i.e. this report as a whole. When we look at the content of course (and I will be here, to be as brief as possible, to focus on the opening part) when we look at the things that have been accomplished, we have the absolute figures of the law, strategy, decisions etc., etc., but we have no opportunity to assess what it is planned through Benchmarking. So what percent of it is planned is realized, and in particular we don't have a way of getting to how much of it should have been planned and realized. Because if we go back to this part, actually which only contains benchmarking, it's a question of obligations from the European Partnership, then we see that the results are very bad. 25 So, and someone calculated, if we were all together, so of course I don't want to put responsibility on the Council of Ministers alone, adopt laws and reforms at this rate, so we would reach... The EU for some 33 years. So we absolutely can't. I'll argue here with a few data, of course you have them in front of you, but I'll tell them here in this microphone. Therefore, of a total of 222 planned activities with a planned execution date of 7. 2009 - 12. In 2009, 80% was fully realised, from 222 – 88. Within the key priorities of 18 planned activities – 6. Furthermore, as part of the priorities set out in the 'Sectoral Policy' chapter of 69 planned activities – 21. As part of the chapter 'Justice, Freedom and Security of 27 only 13. So the hardest job is to come as is here where of the 7 planned activities none, where the job statistics etc., etc. So, we see, so here, where there's a possibility that based on comparison to what was needed and what was done, we can see the results of the work. Again, I say, of course, this cannot all be transferred to the back of the Council of Ministers since the overall political climate for which we have all been responsible here together has also not given wind in the back of this Council of Ministers, but why not, it is already at this home that is responsible for discussing political issues, which means putting responsibility but also in front of us here. On the other hand, of course, and just the Council of Ministers' behaviour and even the chairman at certain stages didn't actually give, let me put it this way, the best signals. You will remember here how long we waited for the appointment of the minister of security, in a situation where BiH is in every form of endangering its security. On the other hand, the chairman of the Council of Ministers has been deafened for over half a year at the request of... parties, partners and, if you will, a coalition partner in this government for the replacement of a minister who does not realize the party programme, which is a coalition partner and, ultimately, not this coalition that we have to answer to. It is, therefore, the Deputy Minister of Foreign Trade and Economic Relations. And on the other hand, it's not just a matter of political correctness, it's about that, and basically, someone who doesn't realize the party's programme which is a coalition partner in both houses of the BiH Parliamentary Assembly, someone who neglects economic operators from one BiH territory, specifically aluminum when there was the adoption of the Customs Tariff Act, and someone who, at this point, can't guarantee, but looks and deceives this home. He deceived this home here in front of us all, citing, so to speak, the data that in the EU is customs on... aluminum and those elements that we have proposed here in the amendment... It cannot be there and cannot have support, so it cannot allow itself to chair the Council of Ministers and lead a staff policy on behalf of the parties that are coalition partners, while at the same time asking that these parties support the Council of Ministers in all of this. So, at the very least, but I want to say this, from this report I read and followed by most of the institutions have worked within the existing, so to speak, possibilities correctly and well my job. That is why, at the very least, me and my party colleague will be restrained here, so we will not support this report on the work of the Council of Ministers.
ParlaMint-BA_2010-05-28-0.u7753	Thank you very much. If no one ever answers their word, we'll go to the vote. Who Is For? Is there anyone “against ”? One “against ” and two“ abstentions. ” 26 We adopted a report on the work of the Council of Ministers with the opinion of the Joint Committees of the House of Peoples. Moving to the 15th point of the agenda: Ad. 15. Report on the work of the Office for the Review of Appeals in 2009 You have received the Work Report as well as the Commission's Opinion on Finance and Budget. The Commission has adopted the Work Report and proposes to adopt one conclusion to the House. The House of Representatives adopted a report on the work of the Board of Appeals. If no one answers... This is Božo Rajić. Here you go.
ParlaMint-BA_2010-05-28-0.u7755	Thank you, Mr. Chairman. So I think, no matter what, here's what I just said to my colleague Koprivica, so I'm gonna have to make the same mistake, so I repeat what it says, and that's just proof that we're human, nothing more. I feel the need to say two or three sentences concerning the conclusions adopted by the Committee on Budgets and Finance in relation to this report submitted by the Office of Appeals. We said there and it's important to know and to hear the representatives of the Council of Ministers. I am pleased that the Secretary-General of the Council of Ministers is here to finally, and indeed I ask them to do so, to resolve the relations between the Office of Appeal and the Public Procurement in the sense of implementing the Monitoring and Data Exchange Regulations and Access Information, on the one hand, and, on the other hand, to finally resolve this legal... node between the Office of Appeal and the Ministry of Justice regarding the structure, or the adoption of the Internal Organisation and Systematization Regulation, because this problem extends throughout this mandate. So, just that one clarification, one additional request, to be transferred, Mr Secretary, the Council of Ministers, finally solve that question, make that institution function in accordance with the law and rules they have adopted... Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-BA_2010-05-28-0.u7756	Thank you very much. Is anyone else answering for word? If he's not answering, I'm putting in the first report on the work of the Office to discuss complaints of voting. Who Is For? Is there anyone “against ”? We're all for it, then. We are now voting on this conclusion of the Finance and Budget Commission. 27 Who is “for ” this conclusion? Also unanimous. Moving to the 16th point of the agenda: Ad. 16. BiH Bank's 2009 Annual Report You have received the Work Report as well as the Commission's Opinion on Finance and Budget. The Commission has accepted the Central Bank's Annual Report and is proposing to the House its adoption. The House of Representatives adopted the Annual Report. I'm putting it to a vote. Who Is For? I agree that we unanimously adopted the Central Bank's 2009 report. Moving to point 17, Ad. 17. Financial Report of the Central Bank of BiH 2009
ParlaMint-BA_2010-05-28-0.u7761	Thank you, Mr. Chairman. So, at the meeting of the Commission on Foreign and Trade Policy, we adopted one conclusion that the Committee on Foreign and Trade Policy asks the Management Board to initiate concrete proposals for all those problems for which there is no legal possibility and to ask the Management Board to deliver these proposals to us. I have before me a list of these conclusions adopted by the Management Board, he was delivered to the House of Peoples and I first expected that we would get these conclusions here today in the materials. Since we haven't received them, I'm asking one specific question: How on, how do we deal with these problems because we, who have been standing in these conclusions, have been facing each other for more than two years? So, I expected that we would get these conclusions, that we would make a statement about them. However, since there are no conclusions, and since we are now adopting this report, I would like to hear a concrete proposal on how we will proceed and how will we address these problems that are really big?
ParlaMint-BA_2010-05-28-0.u7762	Is anyone else answering for word? Alma Čolo. Here you go.
ParlaMint-BA_2010-05-28-0.u7763	Well, I am obliged by the Commission for Foreign and Trade Policy to say that we are really, when we have considered this report, asked the Management Board to deliver and taxively state problems that they cannot solve on their own. And here, on 24 May, they delivered it to their homes, but we'll put it on the agenda of this commission, of course, if Dom puts us in charge, both the House of Representatives and the House of Order, and then we'll go to the House with concrete suggestions if the House agrees.
ParlaMint-BA_2010-05-28-0.u7764	Okay. Is there a need for Mrs. Marija Putica to say something? If it's not good. Can we then adopt the BiH Radio Television Work and Business Report? Who Is For? ‘Non’? Niko. "Contained"? I agree that we unanimously adopted the BiH Radio-Television Work and Business Report. 29 We move to the 19th point: Ad. 19. Report on BiH's Attorney General's work for the period from 1. 1. 2009 to 31. 12. 2009 You have received a report on the work as well as the Opinion of the Constitutional Commission. The Commission has adopted a report on the work of the Ombudsman. He's proposing to the House his adoption. The House of Representatives adopted the report. If no one answers their word, we vote. Who Is For? Is there anyone “against ”? "Contained"? There isn't. I understand that we adopted the 2009 Justice Report. Moving to the 20th point of the agenda: Ad. 20. A report on the work of the BiH Postal Transport Agency and the 2009 Financial Report
ParlaMint-BA_2010-05-28-0.u7771	Mr. Chairman, I don't know what time it is, but I've talked about this in a different context and with the same backdrop several times, but obviously there's no use talking about it. We have a proposal in front of us where there is a stronger law. Unfortunately, there is no minimum agreement in the Croatian Club on selecting members of the working bodies as none of this was, and then we have results that I absolutely do not believe in. Let not the angry members of this committee no matter who they are and from which parties they come, I do not believe in the objectivity of this commission which is... so that they can neither be representatives of the other party except HDZ BiH on the Croatian side, and the relationship on the other hand that I do not enter there... 32 So when you take the rating methodology and the range of 0 to 30 points per member of this committee for each candidate times the number of members, it would be very easy to calculate that manipulative methods can exclude the best candidate and push the first, or second, much worse candidate. We are convinced that it was in the work of this committee, we cannot prove it precisely because they have delivered us a summary table. If we had records on the score of individual members of this committee, then it would very explicitly show you that it is a matter of bias, unprofessional and unfair. So, for this reason, we will not accept a future finding of the commission where it will be unilateral in both homes, as is the case here, from both homes are representatives of HDZ BiH, with other peoples it is not. I congratulate them that this is not the way it is with them, show that they have a more intense feeling in that sense than it exists with us. So we will not accept this or any other commission that is drawn up in a way that is represented from one party by both homes of the Parliamentary Assembly, because that is neither correct nor democratic nor can come to an honest result. For this reason, for this part of the agenda, my colleagues Ljubić and I, members of HDZ 1990, will leave the hall during the vote and we will return to it when this point is completed. Thank you.
ParlaMint-BA_2010-05-28-0.u7772	Mr. Zoran Koprivica, then Božo Ljubić.
ParlaMint-BA_2010-05-28-0.u7773	I thank you, Chairman. Indeed, as a member of this committee, I fully express my disdain for all these findings of my fellow Rajić whom I particularly respect, and I really do not see any single reason or basis for these remarks we have had the opportunity to hear. Start from the very process of calling ads, i.e. competition, collecting applications, holding meetings of this committee, setting up rules of procedure, the criteria for points, the interviews that we have conducted, indeed, here in front of this house hard (here is Mrs. Čolo as chairman of this commission) that we have fully respected the provisions of the Rules of Procedure, and all the procedures, and all the deadlines, that from the candidates reported here, you see here all those who have been reported, indeed in accordance with the Rules of Procedure of the Representative's House and the Rules of Procedure of the Commission, we have done the whole procedure consciously, honestly and honestly and here, and I suggest that this home, which we have had the opportunity to hear from the esteemed colleague Rajić, do not accept because there is no basis for any of them. So really, here's another very responsible one that we have chosen candidates who have the best conditions, who have shown the best knowledge, who have shown extremely good knowledge, both from domestic and international regulations that regulate the issue of enforcement of criminal sanctions, detention and other measures, indeed, and I don't think we've made any single mistakes. And these five candidates that we suggested here on the list, which showed the best results, I think we did the right thing and we did the right thing, and these remarks have no basis.
ParlaMint-BA_2010-05-28-0.u7774	Mr. Božo Ljubić. Replica, okay, Božo Rajić. 33
ParlaMint-BA_2010-05-28-0.u7775	Comrade Koprivica, it's not yours to judge whether I'm right or wrong. So you have no right to do that. I have the right to my opinion as an agent, and as a man, I am responsible for my opinion, not you. If you're so convinced that you did this the way you described, that this is all correct, show us, give us as an integral part of your individual voting report. Then we'll discuss honesty, intent, manipulation. And this is how you convince me, so that I can sign that it's done to your office, give me the records to turn me in on the score of all the members of this committee for all the candidates, and then we'll talk and prove who's right. Am I, have I some fiction, am I frustrated with something so I'm saying it, or do I have reason and reason to talk about it? Why is it a secret that we don't have our score record in front of us? No, we don't. We have a collection. I want individuals. Let me see why he's an Y. candidateX. Got 0, or the other 17, and the third 30 points in the same category of questions? Leave it, I know what an interview is. Mr. Koprivic, I was working when you were born. I know what an interview is, what polls are. These are the elimination criteria to bring in whoever you want, and you get who you don't want. We're not going to have a controversy about this. So I made our position clear about it. We have no confidence in this report or in the methodology of creating one-sided committees.
ParlaMint-BA_2010-05-28-0.u7776	Thank you very much. Božo Ljubić answered, it seems to me before, so then we have Alma Čolo.
ParlaMint-BA_2010-05-28-0.u7777	Look, of course these arguments made by Mr. Božo Rajić are absolutely standing. So, on the other hand, you should also take this debate as a cause, because this is happening an enti time, so whenever any appointment is of any importance, therefore in the committee of the joint two homes, only one party representatives are put in front of the Hrvat, the HDZ of BiH. You, Mr. Chairman, you gentlemen from the presidency, cannot be excluded from responsibility for this issue, because you are not only in charge of calling MPs when they answer the word, but also to coordinate and to be careful, therefore, and to balance. Go back a little bit from the Ombudsman, from these appointments, etc., etc. Therefore, not only is none of our party involved, none of us are questioned or colluded. Mr. Koprivic, you're invoking procedure. It can all be true about procedural reasons. Staljin sent 20 million people to their deaths by procedure. I'm talking about the essence. So, I don't want to paralyze the procedure at all. And what Božo Rajić says, I am convinced that we would prove the bias of some candidates, not all of them, in this commission when we had points here assigned to one of these applicators in front of the members of this committee. And that's why, of course, when there's a vote, we'll leave the hall. Here you go, and you're doing it without us. The same thing will happen when it comes to the point that is subsequently included in the agenda. None of us have ever been consulted, familiar with that. Obviously there was a deal made behind the scenes about it. If he's part of some store, I don't get into it, but we won't be there, we won't be a part of it. 34
ParlaMint-BA_2010-05-28-0.u7778	Can't we decide then? Alma Čolo.
ParlaMint-BA_2010-05-28-0.u7779	Well, I'm obliged, as chairman of this committee, to really give a brief explanation. I can't, I'm not getting into why there were no HDZ 1990 representatives on this committee and it's not in my jurisdiction when it comes to the work of this committee. However, when it comes to winning candidates, believe me, we have also asked professional questions, Mr Zoran Koprivica and I, from European prison rules and all international documents concerning the monitoring of prison work. The first candidate on the list is a doctor of legal science. That's one Hrvat who was appointed here on this committee. He is a doctor of legal science and, according to his references, he has really bounced from other candidates in the order of the Croatian people. We have several candidates who have already been appointed to the Council of Ministers' Committees to monitor work in prison institutions, and European prison rules separate full government inspection in prisons and independent monitoring that is on the side of the BiH Parliament, and here in the report we have made clear that the government's inspection should be separate from this inspection formed by the Parliamentary Assembly of BiH. And I, believe me, can really claim that this commission's work was correct. And these other remarks, concerning the composition of this commission, may indeed be standing and probably standing and should be removed in the next period.
ParlaMint-BA_2010-05-28-0.u7780	Mr. Ilija Filipović. Here you go.
ParlaMint-BA_2010-05-28-0.u7781	I'll be very brief. So I wouldn't go into any of these political connotations that we've heard from colleagues Božo Rajić and Božo Ljubić. Everyone has the right to an opinion. So I didn't participate in the work of this committee, and I don't know how this commission worked, I can't even get into it. But a statement that he will leave the vote by Mr Ljubić and Mr Rajić endangers the work of this house. So, the moment you leave the hall, there's no quorum for this home to work. The constitution predicts at least three plus three plus three from each club. In order not to come to this situation that you are threatening to make decisions in this home, I propose this home, before this session is held for the reasons of yours – even though I would have been, I would have irrelevantly placed myself against candidate number 8 and candidate number 1, so I am not going in – again I must say this, I suggest that we postpone the presentation of this point and the appointment under the newly classified point 25 for the next House session.
ParlaMint-BA_2010-05-28-0.u7782	Thank you very much. Mr. Božo Ljubić. Here you go. 35
ParlaMint-BA_2010-05-28-0.u7783	Look, I don't want to participate in any procedural maneuvers, but I also want to replicate Mr. Ilija Filipović. We are not jeopardizing this way, therefore, the functioning of the House, but those who continuously for three and a half years, in fact, are acting in an unbalanced manner when it comes to making appointments and ignoring a party that actually represents almost half of the Croatian people here in BiH. That you have no right, and we are now.../ the microphone has gone off.
ParlaMint-BA_2010-05-28-0.u7784	Well, according to the Rules of Procedure, if there's no quorum, I'm obliged to take a break, take a break, whatever you want, for five minutes. Here I am now, just in time, if the gentlemen return. [[PAUZA]] Shall we continue our work? Let's see, Mr. Filipović is still here. Okay, we're continuing this session. I find that at point 24 we have made no decision. Since we have a quorum, we continue to work. Here comes Mr. Božo Ljubić.
ParlaMint-BA_2010-05-28-0.u7786	Mr. Chairman, of course, we care about continuing to work and that this home is making decisions, because I see they have these decisions concerning BiH's duties, etc. But once again, I want to say, of course this should have been done long before, we can't allow the practice of... force, force... in fact most of which is made by lot. You remember that the third term here in this home of HDZ BiH was won by lot. So, ignoring... not only parties but also a large part of Croatian voters, because this is about ethnic homes. So I'm asking these two points to be removed from the agenda. This is a point concerning the appointment of these five persons who have been proposed and this point that was subsequently included in the agenda 'Anointing the Doctors', I don't know what it's called, 'Corruption Agency', so we can continue to take part in the session at other points. I'm asking you to put it on a plea, so let's move on to the other points.
ParlaMint-BA_2010-05-28-0.u7787	You see, we've already adopted the agenda. We can postpone the statement on this point. I think that would be a solution, because the agenda has already been adopted and here we go to this 25th point of the agenda. I suggest we postpone the statement on this agenda point. She's adopted, you know. I can't take it off the agenda now.
ParlaMint-BA_2010-05-28-0.u7788	Sure, if we want to. 36
ParlaMint-BA_2010-05-28-0.u7789	But we're postponing the plea, and we don't have any decisions on that. Do you agree with that, Mr. Ljubić?
ParlaMint-BA_2010-05-28-0.u7790	No, taking off, or leaving the session.
ParlaMint-BA_2010-05-28-0.u7791	You can if you want, if you don't have to.
ParlaMint-BA_2010-05-28-0.u7792	We don't have a quorum, then we can't work. Here, let's see, just a little bit. Well, at the end of the day, the result is the same whether we take off from the agenda or postpone the statement, but here, since that situation is related to the quorum, I suggest that... here's the agenda we change so we're going to take this point off the agenda. What's the other one? CEMT licenses? _________(?) [[no microphone turned on]] Well, Krešić, that's what I'm saying right now, that's what I'm suggesting.
ParlaMint-BA_2010-05-28-0.u7794	They have such two decisions of a personal nature, of a human being. That's the one we're talking about right now, there's the one Mr. Zrno suggested, listed in the agenda, for the performer of Mr. Krešić's duties. We're asking to remove both points of the agenda.
ParlaMint-BA_2010-05-28-0.u7795	We can't take it off when, this first point, when we're on the 23rd point of the agenda, we've concluded by saying there's no decision on that point because we've been discussing it, you know, and we don't have any decisions. I just said if you followed. And for this point, we suggest that it be removed.
ParlaMint-BA_2010-05-28-0.u7796	I don't think we understand each other. We came back because we were invited from the club, from the Secretariat, and we were told to come back for a follow-up. We've come to continue on condition, this is our condition, you can understand me however you want: we won't continue today's session unless both points are removed. We offer to remove two points and continue to complete the agenda. Otherwise, we're gonna have to leave the session and you're gonna have another break.
ParlaMint-BA_2010-05-28-0.u7797	Mr. Ilija Filipović. Here you go. 37
ParlaMint-BA_2010-05-28-0.u7798	I have to get involved. So there's no way to change anyone's mind, and I'm not trying to. So, I know that everyone has the right to their own opinion and that public opinion is going to be difficult to change, but I have to tell the House, I am talking to this home now, and therefore to my colleagues who are blackmailing us here, that you are not blackmailing us or forcing us to violate the business provisions that bind us all in the same way. Point 24. The appointment of five members of the Independent Commission shall be a mandatory item of the agenda, in accordance with the provisions of the Rules of Procedure. She's been through a complete procedure, past the House of Representatives, past our committees, and she's a mandatory point. You can't blackmail us into taking that item off the agenda because mandatory points can't be removed from the agenda. That's why, as a member of the College, I don't accept that blackmail, but my colleagues have fully explained everything. We later placed the agenda item. It is not mandatory and we can postpone the decision on item 25 that we have placed on the agenda for the next session. We have to decide on this point today, because I don't want to violate the Rules of Procedure for any blackmail. And you, if you think you're going to contribute to yourself and your political improvement, that the reflections in public will benefit you from what you said about leaving the session, you decide, you're reasonable and responsible people. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-BA_2010-05-28-0.u7799	Look, after this, we only have these agreements. It's a shame not to adopt, people. Here you go, sir.
ParlaMint-BA_2010-05-28-0.u7800	Dear fellow Filipović, you did not lead the controversy with us, you gave us a lecture. I don't know where you get your qualifications to teach others. I'm a witness in this house that we've downloaded both mandatory and optional, and after the debate, and before the agenda, and, ultimately, the agenda. Therefore, do not appeal to me for some consistency that you advocate here. So there's a chance to get rid of it, if you want to get rid of it. You can't call blackmail when legitimate representatives of one nation, the crowd, this is the House of Peoples, I'm talking about the legitimate representatives of half of the Croatian people in BiH, say they can't be ignored in the way you've been doing for three and a half years. And we do not blackmail you, but answer you that we do not accept the dictatorship and violence against ourselves and those whom we represent. And you can't qualify that for us to be blackmailing. We have suffered violence against us for three and a half years, and all of us are witnesses and members of this house that no body that has any relevant decision-making ability has allowed us to enter, using the mathematical relationship of power 3 - 2, counting the fifth that rolled over the ball. Therefore, this is not blackmail, this is our answer, this is our bitter response to your violent behavior for three and a half years over half of the Croatian club. Therefore, you do not need to give us any explanation or concern for our public political reputation, for our points. Leave it to us, it's our moral, political concern. It's either off the agenda, or we won't be able to participate any further! So don't take us as blackmail, call whatever you want. We're not going to accept any other modes today other than taking them off the agenda of both points. Thank you, and we're done with that for all of us. 38
ParlaMint-BA_2010-05-28-0.u7801	Okay, thank you very much. Adem Ibrahimpašić answered the question.
ParlaMint-BA_2010-05-28-0.u7802	Thank you, Chairman. So we can think that someone's not acting nice, that he's using the position, this-that's the thing of whoever's doing it, and he's going to his address all of it. Personally, as far as I'm concerned, however we take this one off, which is mandatory, because we included it in the agenda, I would please them and take this one off. We'll have the next session soon, and we'll sort it out. So, let's not throw away this whole series of dots behind, let's at least figure something out. Here, my suggestion is to please them, to vote on it.
ParlaMint-BA_2010-05-28-0.u7803	Okay, here I would put this proposal to a vote... Who's "for" to take both of these points off the agenda? Who Is “against ”? With two votes "against", I realize that we have removed these two points from the agenda. We're crossing... Ad. 25. Request of the People's House of Investigation Commission for extension of deadlines for submission of reports on CEMT licences issued for 2009 to carriers in Bosnia and Herzegovina The House of Peoples of the Parliamentary Assembly of BiH at the 40th session, held on 30th 12. In 2009, he adopted an initiative to form an investigative committee to determine the circumstances regarding the issue of CEMT permits. The members of the Investigation Commission were named Dušanka Majkić, Božo Rajić, Adem Ibrahimpašić. The people's homes have been assigned by the Commission of Investigation to make a report within three months and deliver it to the House of Peoples. The People's House of People's Investigation Commission requires an extension of the deadline for submitting the report on the circumstances relating to the issue of CEMT licences for 2009 to carriers by 31. 5. 2010 I give my word to the chairman of the Commission of Investigation, Božo Rajić.
ParlaMint-BA_2010-05-28-0.u7805	Mr. Chairman, briefly. So our idea was that after the House of Representatives' investigation had completed its work and submitted its report to the competent home that we too would speed up our work and we thought that we would be able to conclude it by 31. Five, as we requested in our request. However, it turns out that at a public hearing, or a demonstration of 39 responsible persons who conducted this procedure for the 2009 CEMT license, we were able to obtain statements from only one of the three key men in the commission. And we decided on our commission at our last session to try again, most likely 9. 6, call on the other two members of this committee who were key people in the distribution of licenses and the issuing of replacement permits to collect their statements on this and after that we conclude the work. Well, I ask this home to respect this fact and that the deadline for extending the report is not 31.5. but 30. Six. Thank you.
ParlaMint-BA_2010-05-28-0.u7806	Okay, thank you very much. I'm putting on a vote by the request of the Commission of Investigation. When is “for” to take up to 30. - Sixth? - Sixth? Is there anyone “against ”? "Contained"? There isn't. I find that we have adopted the request of this investigation committee. Moving to the next item of the agenda: Ad. 26. Opinion of the Commission on Finance and Budget on the Request of the Office for Audit for Amendments to the Law on Amendments and Supplements to the Law on Ministrys and other bodies of the Administration, in the section relating to the definition of the Office for Auditing BiH institutions as an independent administrative organisation You've been given the Commission's opinion. The Commission has reached its conclusion and proposes its adoption. Is anyone answering for a word? If he's not answering, who's in? Is there anyone “against ”? "Contained"? There isn't. I realize we've adopted this report and the conclusion. Moving to the 25th point of the agenda: Ad. 26. Giving consent to ratification
