ParlaMint-BA_2010-02-03-0.u32157	My fellow Members and fellow Members, ladies and gentlemen, honored guests, I am opening the 71st session of the Parliamentary House of Bosnia and Herzegovina.
ParlaMint-BA_2010-02-03-0.u32158	We have invited our regular guests, the chairman and members of the BiH Presidency, the chairman and members of the Council of Ministers, representatives of OHR, the OSCE and other international organisations in BiH who are monitoring the work of our home, as well as representatives of certain NGOs. Of course, there are those who have come to their points, as is the auditor general, Mr. Milenko Šego. I welcome all present MPs and guests as well as media representatives. The absence was justified by MP Jerko Lijanović. According to service information, there are 36 MPs present. I find the session has a quorum for full-time work and decision-making. As for the changes in the agenda, I'd like to introduce you to the next one. We've taken point 10 off the agenda. – Proposal for a law amending the Law on Classification of Activities in BiH until the House of Peoples ends the procedure in first reading. We added item 28 to the agenda. – Amendments to the membership committees of the House of Representatives and the Joint Commission of both homes and point 29. we have been completed with the positions under e), f), g) and h). I'm opening a debate on the proposed agenda. Dear Ambassador Husein Nanić. Here you go.
ParlaMint-BA_2010-02-03-0.u32159	I thank you, Chairman. Honorable colleagues and fellow MPs. I would like to propose today, with one real regret that on such a large agenda and that I did not deliver before, however, we have a new situation that I would like to explain very briefly. Since we have adopted a new Act on the Agency, on the establishment of a Anti-Corruption Prevention and Co-ordination Agency, and that this is one of the conditions for visa liberalisation and next week we have an expert team to make monitoring, and the obligation under the law has been made by the Parliamentary Assembly of BiH to form a Commission for the Selection of Directors of the Agency, means a parliamentary commission to elect the Director of the Agency. I would, in that sense, suggest adding today's agenda to the point, meaning – Forming a commission to elect a director of the Anti-Corruption and Co-ordination Agency, in line with new laws. 2
ParlaMint-BA_2010-02-03-0.u32160	Thank you. Please, the materials for the agenda item you suggested would be good if you applied so that we could discuss it. So the legal act you're referring to, the member of the law you're calling on and the point of the agenda that you define in the way you've explained. Dear Ambassador Drago Kalabić. Here you go.
ParlaMint-BA_2010-02-03-0.u32161	Respect, chairman, distinguished colleagues and colleagues. I have a request in front of the SNSD Club that isn't common at this time, but unfortunately, I have to present it. The SNSD MPs' club at PSBiH's House of Representatives is startled by the performance of our colleague, Mr Denis Bećirović, at the Public Service, on one of the shows. We cannot trust ourselves that one of our colleagues, who participates here with us in a parliamentary debate, has allowed himself such a formulation. We're asking to officially present it here, we're not in a position right now, but we have the right to sort of convince it. The essence of Mr Bećirović's message is that he is awaiting the anti-fascist assembly of parliament. We translate into the usual language of the viewer of the service, so you know what this convocation means. We know which countries had fascist callings. We know how the fascists ended up in front of the people's revolutions. We know how the citizens on the streets caught fascists and representatives and fascist leaders. Because of the crime, they wouldn't even let some people get to any court of law. Is that a message to the majority council of this House? Is that a message to the citizens who are us and who are the ones who presented such ideas? This parliament adopted an act, which was supported by the SNSD, which reads -- the BiH Parliamentary Assembly, marking the 60th anniversary of the victory over fascism marked in Europe and the whole world, expresses the anti-fascist, democratic and commitment of BiH and its citizens, people and society as a whole. The BiH Parliamentary Assembly points out that the values of freedom, democracy and humanism, with a huge contribution from the Bosnian Herzegovina people, are built into the foundations of an independent and sovereign BiH. Confirming BiH's historical and civilizational connection with the overall democratic commitment of modern Europe, the BiH Parliamentary Assembly calls for all progressive forces to cultivate, protect and preserve anti-fascist values. Accepting the modern European commitment to freedom and democracy, tolerance and solidarity, and reminds that the foundations of the EU have grown out of victory over fascism, the BiH Parliamentary Assembly underlines the importance of choosing the day of victory as Europe's Day. Calling on all state bodies and public institutions for an objective and comprehensive evaluation of the historic period of World War II and for the contribution of Bosnian-Herzegovic anti-fascist anti-fascists to the overall victory over the fascist conspiracy against freedom, democracy, progress and humanity, the Parliamentary Assembly of BiH underlines the obligation of all state bodies to protect the anti-fascist values and European commitment of the Bosnian-Herzegovina society and the state of BiH, and defends the dignity of participants in anti-fascist fighting by protecting the monumental heritage as part of cultural goods, strengthening the foundations of the achievement of anti-fascisism as a confirmation of the unpreservable European democratic orientation and commitment of BiH. We at the SNSD thought that this was enough about such a serious subject to say once that he was acting in practice. We did not expect that someone in a democratic society, dissatisfied with the majority decision, would go to the point of declaring the majority decision fascist. 3 This is democracy, with all the faults that BiH has, this is a democratic society, a multi-party society in which there is a majority and minorities, in which laws are respected, there is a Constitution, and in which no individual has the right to make a democratic decision and democratic expression in this House can in such an unscrupulous and harsh way present to the citizens of this country, who may not be able to know this and are not able to bear everything we wear in our heads, that those who have the right to sometimes forget something. We can disagree, we can have different views and opinions, but use it. SNSD MPs have several times apologized to some people or parties in this House, or for the mistakes we committed on purpose or on purpose, but I have not heard that they are others.
ParlaMint-BA_2010-02-03-0.u32162	Time.
ParlaMint-BA_2010-02-03-0.u32163	So, we're asking, that's how I end up, from Mr. Bećirović, that this home is excused here clearly and unequivocally. If that is not the case, the SNSD Club takes the right to decide how it will proceed.
ParlaMint-BA_2010-02-03-0.u32164	Thank you. Replica, honourable MP Denis Bećirović. Here you go.
ParlaMint-BA_2010-02-03-0.u32165	Dear chairman, esteemed colleagues and colleagues, media representatives, dear guests. All that SDP MP Denis Bećirović said in the magazine "60 Minutes" again on Monday, here you are, Mr Kalabić, behind each sentence and word again. So let's get this dilemma straight. I was thinking this in Bilako when, Mr. Kalabić, you lost that it was some random autogo, but now I see how many auto goals you gave yourself at the beginning, so obviously you'll have Bileću in a much bigger space than the municipality of Bileæ. I must say, I'm glad you're still different from your President Dodik who said he didn't watch "60 Minutes" magazine. I am very pleased that you are closely following the magazine “60 minutes” and I think it is a very important fact. I specifically said there is no anti-fascist parliamentary majority in this House. I stand by that word. Which exists, I didn't say. The fact that you've identified yourself, located, etc., that's your problem, I didn't say that. I must responsibly say that there is a majority here that is indicative against the anti-fascist values that are heritage throughout Europe and the world. In doing so, I have no intention of equating in the majority of people who voted for those laws where we were supposed to show whether we were an anti-fascist majority or not those people who voted. I don't want to put you in the same basket, Mr. Kalabić, you and Mr. Remzi Kadrić or Martin Raguž and some other people. That was not the point. 4 Whether or not we are an anti-fascist majority, we should have shown it on concrete things. Number one. In this House, you have just rejected an initiative to pass a law banning fascist and neo-fascist organizations. You voted over me and the SDP club, and you tasked the BiH Council of Ministers to do so. I have information, I don't know if they've been checked, that you've just stopped the Council of Ministers from offering any law on the ban on fascist and non-fascist organizations. Here was the proposal to mark the Holocaust Day in BiH, as it is marked throughout Europe. You voted even against it. Here was the proposal to support the European Parliament's resolution to mark the Day of Remembrance of genocide in Srebrenica. And it's been denied. Here was a proposal of the Criminal Code in the first reading to sanction those who deny genocide and war crimes. And it was rejected and kicked out of the law. There was a law here on banning genocide and holocausts. And it's been denied. On these things we define ourselves here whether or not we are followers of antifascist values. I also have to tell you that this is a very big compliment for me, everything you've said so far and I'm very glad that the SNSD is bothered by both Denis Bećirović and the SDP BiH, and I was wondering, perhaps before you suggested it, that you might not suggest that you justify yourself to the victims at the Tuzlan Gate, on the Sarajevo markala, etc. They were said to have killed themselves. And that, we know well, is who said it. Mr Kalabić, I could tell you a lot more, and that on the Constitutional Commission, here in the BiH Parliament, you defended Draža Mihajlović and spoke and wondered if we should sing songs about Draža Mihajlović. Now let me tell you in public – Draža Mihajlović is a war criminal and villain. In eastern Bosnia, from Trebinj and worse when you go through Foca, Gorazda, Nevesinj to Zvornik and Vlasenica, there is no family that has not been killed by the slaughtering units of Draže Mihajlović in the region, as there is almost no Serbian family who has not suffered from Ustasha massacres in Krajina. And you were defending it.
ParlaMint-BA_2010-02-03-0.u32166	Time.
ParlaMint-BA_2010-02-03-0.u32167	Did you insult all the victims in BiH, Mr. Kalabić? And finally, let me tell you, given the time, that I am absolutely interested in the perception of BiH citizens, the people who are victims in this BiH, and this is everything you've been saying, you've done to hide the fact, and today at point 18 we're talking about whether we're in the Criminal Law prohibiting fascist and neo-fascist organisations. I'd like you to vote for this Criminal Law today...
ParlaMint-BA_2010-02-03-0.u32168	Time.
ParlaMint-BA_2010-02-03-0.u32169	...not to manipulate here, because I'm going to honor the chairman's assessment that I've overstepped time, and I'd have a lot more to tell you. Thank you. 5
ParlaMint-BA_2010-02-03-0.u32170	Thank you. Mr. Drago Kalabić, replica.
ParlaMint-BA_2010-02-03-0.u32171	It's hard, if I were to act like Mr. Bećirović, I should probably avoid telling him, dear colleague. It was an elemental human dignity that required me to avoid it. So, Mr. Bećirović, I didn't watch 60 Minutes, and you're very rude because you said it all wrong. So that's why I don't have a picture because I convinced myself, because, Mr. Bećirović, I saw a rerun of "lud, Confused, Normal". I watched that show, Mr. Bećirović. I love watching, and I'm going to stop at the protection of that very good and funny show. Because you're talking about some things, and you're fighting, which were solved 60 years ago, but you're very rude to keep quiet about the things that are tearing down this country and turning it into something else, which is worse than fascism. They're turning her into something worse than fascism. The other thing, Mr. Bećirović, you completely lied when you talk about acts here that have been adopted, but it is in line with the traditions that you inherit and your party where you call on dictatorship, (when it is against you, as one,) which is a party that remembers those times and heritage, when one said it must be, others ended up in prison if they don't say and repeat after it. Whoever doesn't jump in here when you, or you yourself, from the SDP, you bring in all kinds of papers, there's fascists, criminals and everything else. There's not a single gram of tolerance in you for a different opinion, that you're not the only one who's right. And then, to make you look important, you make the most of the possible accusations, because you can't do normal rhetoric (if you didn't agree), that there are others who think differently about it. When it comes to fascism, antifascism, Mr. Bećirović, your friends killed a child in Tuzla, burned him, who only had a shirt on him, whose whole life died in World War II, you only killed him because you hated the people to whom that child belonged. If you're an anti-fascist, if you're a Democrats, which you don't come to, I'll take you to see where his grave is marked. And it's a child descendant of anti-fascists and now it's a victim of what? I'm asking you, what is that victim? Is that fascist, was he killed as a fascist? Can't you see how primitive your politics is? And this is the separation of the victims. 400 police officers, Mr. Bećirović, in your backyard yesterday arrested terrorists who wanted to tear down this country. In your backyard, in your neighborhood, who want to tear down this country. That's not what Denis Bećirović talked about, but all the topics are 50, 60 or 80 years old as it suits you. Why don't you talk about it? And about what you had as a sponsor, you're saying Tuzla didn't help the community in Maoca? What did these people live on? Whose authority is in Tuzla? Whose mayor is he? Can we talk about this? Are the knives that were found under their pillows intended for slaughter not knowing what? Is that not bothering us? What do you think there's only your truth about it, about Draža Mihajlović, where you are an unseen liar, where I asked you, looking into your eyes, Mr Bećirović, as a legislator of the law, asking you, will someone go to jail tomorrow if he sings songs about Draža Mihajlović? Maybe for the trinity I should've added about the Handžar division and the natives and the Ustashas. That's what I'm asking you, as the legislator of the law. To expose you, how much your politics is, because you shouldn't have said that, because you know how inconsistencies you are inconsistencies, and you're talking about how magnificent someone here is. You lie, you lie to the public, they have stenograms. 6
ParlaMint-BA_2010-02-03-0.u32172	Time.
ParlaMint-BA_2010-02-03-0.u32173	And I'm asking you on behalf of the state of BiH, as legislator, do you consider... You didn't have the courage to say this – Yes, we from the SDP think whoever sings the song about drag Mihajlović should go to jail. You had the right to say so, and I'd appreciate it more then. That's your attitude, so we'll see where the middle is.
ParlaMint-BA_2010-02-03-0.u32174	Time.
ParlaMint-BA_2010-02-03-0.u32175	On behalf of the SNSD MPs' club, since there was a lack of reaction we were expecting, I'm looking for a 20-minute break.
ParlaMint-BA_2010-02-03-0.u32176	20 minutes off. [[PAUZA]] My colleagues and fellow MPs, we move on. SNSD club, explanation break. Here you go.
ParlaMint-BA_2010-02-03-0.u32178	Mr. Chairman. The SNSD Club once again considered this situation after repeating these facts, and now the situation is quite clear, that what I have convinced is spoken, for me it is incomprehensible that it is spoken in this Parliament as well. We fight here for our attitudes. It doesn't occur to us that we can influence any other attitudes, but we want to hear them so that we can determine ourselves against them. The SNSD wants to hear the relationship to what happened, first of all the SDP, as a party, whether it's an individual's position or SDP's position. And we want to hear the relationship of all MPs in this room, especially the relationship from the partners' parties. So if I say to one of my colleagues that he's not in his right mind, everyone will translate that he's crazy. If I say he's not with anti-fascists, there's no environment, he's with fascists. And we, in line with what those we talked about, means the SDP's position, as a party, and on the position of other political parties, the SNSD will then be determined according to this issue during today's session, i.e. immediately after this debate. 7
ParlaMint-BA_2010-02-03-0.u32179	Thank you. Dear Ambassador Selim Bešlagić, replica. Here you go.
ParlaMint-BA_2010-02-03-0.u32180	Respecting the chairman, colleagues and colleagues, respected guests. I did not want to replicate in the debate in which Mr. Kalabić, at the presentation of Mr. Bećirović, asked for a certain explanation, because I believe that Mr. Denis Bećirović's statement is his thing, from which I can accept or not accept certain things, but the bottom line is that he basically made something that is my point of view. On the other hand, I still felt it was necessary to replicate Mr. Kalabić, because whenever he hits Tuzla, whenever he hits on the crimes in Tuzla, I consider myself responsible, both as an MP and as the head of the Tuzla municipality at the time of the war when you, under alleged signs, crimes took place. Mr. Kalabić, please, just as I insisted on the prosecution to prove for May 15th, I insist here and ask you to give me the name and name of the child who was killed, burned, and I will take everything from my side, as a man, to get answers and to ask for the processing of that. I beg you, I think that's correct and fair. On the other hand, I would like to ask you to just respect one statement from Mr. Živković, that this parliament, as elections approach, is increasingly like a theater or circus, as you said, and don't make a circus out of this. That's why I asked you, the replicas and conversations you had with Mr. Denis Bećirović. Don't go into the Wahhabi areas, because last time I asked what would be done for those terrorist groups you're talking about, and today I'm a lucky man for what happened last night. And you know why I'm happy? Because we in Tuzla, right in the House of Tuzla Canton, asked that question three years ago, because Tuzla was unable to resolve the issue. And we got answers where we knew clearly who was supposed to do what, the Minister of Science and Education of Tuzla Canton, the Ministry of Security of Tuzla Canton, the Federal Police and finally, here today, that is, what happened yesterday. Thank Bog the state and the institutions of the state started doing their job. So, please, don't impute Tuzla anything that doesn't belong to her, and we're at our disposal to clear up everything that you think exists, and yet there's some kind of suspicion that some crime has been committed that we haven't prosecuted and should be prosecuted. So I'm asking you to give me that name after this, I'm going to do everything I can to give you an explanation and an explanation on that matter. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-BA_2010-02-03-0.u32181	Dear Ambassador Denis Bećirović, replica. Here you go.
ParlaMint-BA_2010-02-03-0.u32182	I am glad that today we have had the opportunity to see that the SDP of BiH is deeply in the way of Mr Kalabić and his party. And it's good to say that the SDP of BiH bothers you because what you've been doing in recent years is destabilising BiH and we're proud to have you as the Social Democratic 8 Party of BiH in the process. Most of what Mr. Kalabić said doesn't deserve any attention. The only thing I can think of at this point is one wonderful thought of one great writer, lav Nikolajevič Tolstoj, who in time said that only two things in the world are boundless – space and human stupidity. But...
ParlaMint-BA_2010-02-03-0.u32183	Mr Bećirović, I must warn you to speak with respect in this room with your fellow MPs.
ParlaMint-BA_2010-02-03-0.u32184	... Mr. Živković,
ParlaMint-BA_2010-02-03-0.u32185	I think it's been a while.
ParlaMint-BA_2010-02-03-0.u32186	...I know he's your party colleague.
ParlaMint-BA_2010-02-03-0.u32187	I'm not talking about a party colleague.
ParlaMint-BA_2010-02-03-0.u32188	This is ten times easier what I said than what he told me, even though you didn't find it appropriate to warn him, but I understand. I think that we here in the BiH Parliament definitely, now that you're looking for it, should we get a statement from the SDP Club whether the SNSD president's statement is about the crime at the market of Markale and the Tuzlan gate, a statement by Milorad Dodik or a statement by the entire SNSD? Is it Milorad Dodik's statement that he will knock out the editor-in-chief of one of the most watched shows in this country, his statement or the SNSD Club? And is your defense of war criminal Draže Mihajlović your personal or is that SNSD's attitude? We must know this in the SDP Club of BiH and must know it here and in the BiH Parliament. That's why, on behalf of the club, I'm looking for a 15-minute break.
ParlaMint-BA_2010-02-03-0.u32189	Time out for 15 minutes. 9 [[PAUZA]] My fellow Members and fellow Members, please continue our work. The SDP club asked for a break. Do you need to explain the break? Dear MP, Mr. Denis Bećirović. Here you go.
ParlaMint-BA_2010-02-03-0.u32191	On behalf of the SDP MPs' Club, we would like to say that all that Mr. Kalabić has done so far is a classic attempt, at this session, to obstruct the work of today's PSBiH House of Representatives session and cheap politicization and attempt to turn away from the main topics that are on the agenda today. We in the SDP think we should approach the implementation of the agenda. Perhaps SNSD can discipline someone in this country, in this parliament, but let it forget for all time that the Social Democratic Party of BiH can discipline. We remain firm with our programme and our beliefs and our political goals of fighting for the BiH state, as a state that rests on anti-fascist foundations, and a state in which all its peoples and citizens must be fully equal. For BiH, it is not necessary to fight 30 to 60 days before the elections. For the BiH state, as a state of equal peoples and citizens, each day, every month and every year of this term should be fought. Therefore, on behalf of the SDP Club, we want to ask... just as counterpart Kalabić has asked... we are now officially asking the SNSD to answer four questions. First – Is the complete SNSD behind the initial statement by Milorad Dodik that no genocide has been made in Srebrenica? Second – Is the entire SNSD party behind Dodik's statements where it denies crimes at Markals and the Tuzlan Gate? Three – Does the entire SNSD party stand behind Dodik's statement where he threatens to knock out a journalist? Four – Does the SNSD as a party stand behind these statements by the president of the SNSD Club who, already here are several sessions, and at the session of the Constitutional Legal Commission, Draža Mihajlović, the convicted war criminal represents in a positive light? We'd like to know the answer in SDP. I believe that colleagues here in the BiH Parliament would like to know the answer to that question, and as a club, until we get those answers, we propose that we accept the agenda of today's session.
ParlaMint-BA_2010-02-03-0.u32192	Thank you. Dear Ambassador Drago Kalabić. Here you go. _________(?) 10 [[microphone is not enabled]] No, he answered for the discussion once, this is another replica.
ParlaMint-BA_2010-02-03-0.u32194	No, no, it's twice.
ParlaMint-BA_2010-02-03-0.u32195	You're a little lost, Denise.
ParlaMint-BA_2010-02-03-0.u32196	This is another replica.
ParlaMint-BA_2010-02-03-0.u32197	Here, the secretary says. So there was once a discussion and a second time a replica. This is the third time he's reported in total. Here you go.
ParlaMint-BA_2010-02-03-0.u32198	If it's your problem, I can give up. _________(?) Well, it is a problem. What would be the problem if someone spoke in this House? _________(?) I'm sorry.
ParlaMint-BA_2010-02-03-0.u32201	Time.
ParlaMint-BA_2010-02-03-0.u32202	That we are against the anti-fascist coalition, that is, we are making the majority that is classified on the other side. SNSD's not on the other side.
ParlaMint-BA_2010-02-03-0.u32203	We have further replicas. Let me tell everyone, in the BiH Parliament today, it's till 5:00. In case we don't finish all the programs we've scheduled in the agenda, the Assembly will continue on the day the next one is scheduled, but we'll vote on that at 5:00. Dear Ambassador Slavko Jovičić. Here you go.
ParlaMint-BA_2010-02-03-0.u32204	Dear chairman, distinguished members of the Council of Ministers of BiH, media representatives, ladies and gentlemen, colleagues and colleagues. Every time the name Milorad Dodik is mentioned here, I've used the opportunity, and I'm going to use today, to replicate and to say, and then I said, but it doesn't seem to be worth it, Mr. Milorad Dodik is not a member of this Parliament and mention his name in any context there's no point in any of this, it only serves the provocations and accusations of the entire SNSD Club. 12 So, Mr Bećirović, your four questions you are looking for answer, three of you have again addressed to the name Milorad Dodik and I repeat to you, I do not know by which time, there are stenograms, Mr Milorad Dodik is not a member of this Parliament. A member of the BiH Parliament is here Mr. Denis Bećirović and, behold, my little one, while we are already in this dialogue. So, the answers to those questions you've asked are looking at other addresses, and not now at the questions that you've been asked and to which we're looking for an answer, that by replacing thesis, you're looking for them at another address. The fact is, when we talked about your proposals earlier, that I said then, and today I will repeat it – if the court says it is a terrorist organisation, my vote will immediately be held, and of course the voice of all the people I think are reasonable, especially the SNSD Club. But you can't just have a subjective opinion and say – these organisations should be banned because you think so. Who proved this to be a terrorist or fascist organization? Whoever proved it has any convictions? If you deliver it here, put it on the agenda right now, we'll vote on it. So there's no verdict that any organization is fascist. The second thing, I think that in the previous session, I also replicated to you and said, Mr. Bećirović, you know history well because it's also a fah, that Srbin gave the most victims in the fight against fascism. We today from this distance, 60 years later, have no right to embarrass the bones of our own, including your countrymen, and of course I will not bid on numbers that have contributed more to the fight against fascism, but I repeat, Srbin have made the most of the sacrifices in the fight against fascism. We have no right to cast today on the bones of the heroes and the Serb people who fought the fascists. So don't insult them, they can't replicate you, but, here, I'm replicating you and don't use it. Take some numbers and you'll get to some indicative percentages and you'll see that Srbin over 80% participated in the fight against fascism. It would be a shame for those of us sitting here today not to say it and not to stand on our stand and not to give them credit for doing it. Therefore, do not abuse these questions and ask them here Milorad Dodik, he is gone, I am a member of the BiH Parliament, he is not.
ParlaMint-BA_2010-02-03-0.u32205	Dear Ambassador Branko Dokić, replica. Here you go.
ParlaMint-BA_2010-02-03-0.u32206	Mr. Chairman, ladies and gentlemen of the Parliament. I think we went one wrong way and this won't lead us to anything. I must say that Mr Bećirović, in his own sports dictionary, entered the offside position with his statements and findings, and that's not good. And instead of realizing that he got into an offside position and made a mistake, he's still expanding all that. And instead of calming down the situation, creating conditions to work, we're in a very awkward position. There are really big words in the occasion, and here are some situations, and then they're trying to conflict here in these places, and even in this home, which I consider to be a kind of abuse of the position of such individuals sitting in these benches. This is not about this or those policies and in this context that led to this story, I must say, if it means something to Parliament, that I am really building on some of the findings and big words that my colleague Bećirović said. I'm not asking him to do anything. 13 I must also say that there was a good will in this House that the Law which he was talking about and which he mentioned, is now passing in this round of voting, respecting the fact that counterpart Bećirović had just respected the remarks that were before, I don't know, a year or a year or a half when a similar law was discussed, and that one variant was made that could be acceptable and could be the basis for another reading, therefore, from which those political things that existed before were thrown out. After his stories, he also questioned those who were ready for such support as he would handle. So it's my suggestion that we find a way to keep working, and that, in future, if there is a possibility now, that you who are leading this congregation give some warning to those people who are flirting with big words and then bring us into this situation where we are now.
ParlaMint-BA_2010-02-03-0.u32207	Thank you. Dear Ambassador Ekrem Ajanović. It's a mistake. Dear Ambassador Sefer Halilović, replica. Here you go.
ParlaMint-BA_2010-02-03-0.u32208	A brief replica only to Mr. Jovičić, and I'm really sorry that we're walking into one of these traps and going back into history. For the sake of truth, I just want to say that in this great anti-fascist coalition in the former Yugoslavia, the Jews were the most affected, and then the Bošnjak were Musliman, and the Srbin and others in a row. Just to correct one piece of information that's incorrect.
ParlaMint-BA_2010-02-03-0.u32209	We're moving on to discussions.
ParlaMint-BA_2010-02-03-0.u32210	No microphone turned on
ParlaMint-BA_2010-02-03-0.u32211	Replica, the second deputy chairman, Mr. Beriz Belkić. Here you go.
ParlaMint-BA_2010-02-03-0.u32212	So, the replica is, or the answer, to Mr Bećirović and Mr Kalabić. So our failure to participate in this kind of debate is an expression of our commitment to do business today. And as for the questions that have been asked here, therefore, a man can't keep his mouth shut, because I know that in an hour, he's going to go to a press conference and say everyone's silent and authorizing. So, as far as discipline is concerned, the BiH Party is an autonomous and independent party and no one is disciplining us. As for the denial of whether we're fascists, anti-fascists, etc., we're talking about who we really are and we really don't need to be involved in these quiz questions if I support this, if I don't support that. 14 And I pray, when it comes to such replicas, etc. Don't drag people into anything unwarranted and ask here as a quiz contest that we answer some questions. We have our views, they are absolutely famous. The example works, Mr. Bećirović mentioned item 18 today. You didn't mention the 25th and the 26th.
ParlaMint-BA_2010-02-03-0.u32213	Discuss, Reverend Zlatko Lagumdžija. Here you go.
ParlaMint-BA_2010-02-03-0.u32214	I thank you, Mr. Chairman. So after a long discussion, right? I answered under discussion, so the proposal for a agenda point with the satisfaction that this is over. And if I hadn't planned on proposing this agenda point, this debate would have asked me to do so. Namely, on the basis of Article 65, Section 1. The Rules of Procedure of the PSBiH House of Representatives, (I would like to propose to you today), and I would ask you to draw a working conclusion for the agenda item that I think would be better if the members of the BiH Council had a different proposal to prepare for the next session. In fact, the public is well-known, and to the world, unfortunately, and not to the local itself, that a single action called "Light" was carried out last night. It was mentioned in the discussions exactly what happened yesterday morning from 4 a.m. to 14 p.m. According to the announcements, I must admit that I watched the news this morning, I read newspapers and newspapers, and as an MP, I consider myself responsible to say that, with mixed feelings, with hope, and also with fear. With the hope that it was really determined to deal with things that were a problem in this country. With the fear of opening up a spiral that could have been hinted here today. I have no reason to doubt anyone, nor anyone who has been picked up, nor those who have bought. But, prompted by the official authorities' statement that the action was done because of the threat of BiH's territorial integrity, I quote, attacks on the constitutional order of BiH, the continuation of the quote, and the demonstration of national, racial and religious hatred, discord and impatience, a closed quote. So that's why the action was carried out. I consider and call on the Council of Ministers of BiH, the members who are here, and also you from the College, Mr Nović was a little while ago, although he was in charge of other affairs, but I am sure that he would know how to convey a message to the Minister of Security, Minister of Foreign Affairs, Minister of Justice and the Chairman of the Council of Ministers of BiH, I think, gentlemen, colleagues and colleagues, to prevent it from getting too much of a similar debate in the BiH Parliament for a month, two or eight, and also for the qualification given by the competent authorities, that for the next session of the Parliamentary Assembly of BiH, it would be good to assess whether it is necessary for you to do so in accordance with Article 90(3) of the Council of Ministers, so that we can seriously discuss this, in fact, that we do not inform ourselves from the media, that we are not informing ourselves from private sources, that here that one full information by the Council of the BiH, that at least, we know what happened here, what could be, that we do so in fact, in our territory, in fact, in fact, that we would become guilty in our territory. I have to admit, therefore, I want to be very clear, I am neither positive nor negative about it, I have no right, as no one has the right to do so, we're just informed from the media about what's been going on. And many things, I say responsibly, have fallen to 15 fertile soils for manipulation for political purposes, and that is why. If there really was evidence that people were jeopardizing the territorial whole, and I wasn't repeating all this stuff that was said here, and that it was really accounted for and accounted for in the right way, it would be one big encouragement for everyone. And that would be a message to other people, because it's already started here, and I'm following it through the media, on the portals, it's already started a real portal Internet war. Who's next, how, counting their own, etc. We must not allow a case like this to end up on the Internet and in the media without obtaining its qualifications and its own guidance for further, that if these qualifications, which are here, are correct, to give support to people to move on for anyone who does it tomorrow, no matter who it is or where it is from. If 650 special forces were sent to 20 families and 20 houses in 250 vehicles with a child's car, there are people in this country who are also at risk, by the media, for constitutional order, whether they will need more people to support it. To give this parliament support to every reckoning. This parliament, too, to condemn any manipulation including manipulations that could be in this House if we do not talk about it. Mr. Chairman, therefore, my proposal, a well-intentioned proposal for you to conclude, to propose that we commit the Council of Ministers of BiH to us for the next session of the BiH Parliament, if there is to be an extraordinary session, to assess by material whether it should be for the public or without the public, and to hold a serious debate, to give arguments, to say what is going on, what are further plans, what are the activities and to support each one... But also to condemn anyone who possibly abuses both state institutions and these pay phones and anything. Let me see, I saw two things from this, that territorial integrity, the whole of BiH, and I saw that children were abandoned there. It's not the same thing. There are abandoned children here at traffic lights washing your windows. That's why you don't do it. So please be very responsible for this approach. And why am I telling you this now, Mr. Chairman? In sincere hope, colleagues and gentlemen of the Council of Ministers of BiH will hear this. And if you don't conclude that, I announce that at the next session of the BiH Parliament, we will launch this in accordance with the procedure. So, I'm not suggesting that we talk about this today, I suggest that neither today should be discussed, but that we give support to everyone to do their job, to answer for their job, but to inform us in an appropriate way to support what needs to be supported. One more thing, as it is said, this is the largest action of its kind from Dejton to this day. And I believe that's the biggest action, that co-ordinated, and in the end...
ParlaMint-BA_2010-02-03-0.u32215	Time
ParlaMint-BA_2010-02-03-0.u32216	...that everyone is responsible for what he did. Like the one who does something on behalf of the state, and the one who does something like a citizen, and in accordance with the Constitution and the laws of this country. I thank you, Mr. Chairman. I apologize if I've broken through time, but I thought I needed to be very specific about what I wanted, because I don't want this to turn into a new replica spiral in the way that it was done before. 16
ParlaMint-BA_2010-02-03-0.u32217	Business intervention, First Deputy Chairman, Mr. Niko Lozančić.
ParlaMint-BA_2010-02-03-0.u32218	Thank you, Mr. President. Ladies and gentlemen of the MPs, distinguished members of the BiH Council of Ministers. Here, I'm going to say right now, the way that this point of the agenda is explained is that I support that it be included as soon as possible in considering this home with all the messages that have been said. But I don't know another way to make it clear to myself and to others, whether we're going to have to sit down today, because I finally heard the presentation of the distinguished representative Lagumdžija not to suggest that today be discussed at all. Now, since we are discussing today's session agenda – are you proposing anything for today's agenda at all to open the business opportunity to discuss, here, at a special session, etc. or we can take this as some of your initiatives presented to the House College to prepare the next sessions to collect relevant information, etc., to ensure that a quality debate can be ensured. I'm left unclear what we should possibly do today, although, as I've already answered, I think, given the currentity of the information, given all of what you've said, it means, unfortunately, our need to politicise everything alive, it would be good, if there's a possibility, I'm saying this now..., today one brief oral information from the Minister of Security or someone else who's authorized to do that at all, short and extensive. Extensive, quality information for a next session if we could really discuss these issues seriously. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-BA_2010-02-03-0.u32219	Here, Mr. Lagumdžija wants to explain.
ParlaMint-BA_2010-02-03-0.u32220	Well, here, I thank you, Mr. Lozančić, I really wouldn't want any misunderstanding left. So my goal is just like yours, and thank you for your support, not to politicize everything, even if this isn't politicized. It's too big to get... and I don't think anyone on this could get anything. We can only lose on this one. The state can win, and the state can lose, as can any one of us if things go wrong. (You know very well that in the next period of the next session there will certainly be many more things that we will be sorry about happening, because they are not timely.) (I'm this... why am I today's agenda...?)), because there were some members of the BiH Council of Ministers here, and I expected, if any of them are willing to give one information right now, I am ready to talk about it today. But seeing as this is objectively not possible, and nobody here should come to us to convince us what we read in the paper. On the other hand, since the investigation is under way, there are very sensitive things, I don't think there's anything to be burdened here today, but the public needs to know that we're aware that this is a serious situation, that large qualifications are given. Qualifications have been given for which we have sworn that we will defend ourselves to keep these things safe, by all means guaranteed by the Constitution. 17 I don’t want to be maligned and say, (I’m in no condition for any other points of the agenda that we initiate) (?We could give you some manual information, but we absolutely don't know anything about this, or any of us. We know what we saw in the media. And my goal, therefore, if they can today, is this daily?If we cannot adopt a kind of working conclusion, as you have done before, and we oblige them to do so for the next session and to assess which type of session should be, when to be, but mandatory until the next session. If I were sitting here, I would suggest it so in the tower. But here, we're all open to everything.
ParlaMint-BA_2010-02-03-0.u32221	Here's the reply to the replica, First Vice Chairman, Mr. Niko Lozančić.
ParlaMint-BA_2010-02-03-0.u32222	No, it's not, I didn't see it as a replica, I didn't see it as a reply to the line, here, I'm giving it now, more for clarification. So, I wouldn't want to, nor do I think the College should do it now (?), steal your ideas, let's put it this way, and we've had the usual situation so far in similar situations, on a proposal from the promoter, which, in this case, is what you are, and I call you, means that what you're saying now, suggest a conclusion to the House of Representatives, as a part of the agenda in which we would oblige the Council of Ministers to hold for the next session, here's what you say, prepare the information that we will then define ourselves. So, since your proposal is, then, we need a written proposal to conclude ourselves (?) as a item of the agenda and how, then, as a House, if we define ourselves, we could oblige the Council of Ministers to do so. Here, that's it.
ParlaMint-BA_2010-02-03-0.u32223	Lagumdžija, here you go.
ParlaMint-BA_2010-02-03-0.u32224	I don't know how this is treated as a replica anymore. It's not a replica.
ParlaMint-BA_2010-02-03-0.u32225	It doesn't matter, just say the word, just say the word.
ParlaMint-BA_2010-02-03-0.u32226	...explanation of colleagues. So, knowing there's going to be some bureaucratic reason, I've prepared a proposal for a agenda point. Here, okay, I'll put that to you as a suggestion of conclusion. However, I ask you for good will and your creativity, you are masters when you want to do something, I mean, even when there is no business (?You know that, I mean, the three of you here to watch, you guys here now me here, I'll write you what you want, if you want to accept this at all. So, it's no problem, here, I'll write you everything, and I'll ask you a question of MPs, I'll give you everything, and you'll see what suits you. 18
ParlaMint-BA_2010-02-03-0.u32227	No microphone turned on
ParlaMint-BA_2010-02-03-0.u32228	Yes, well, don't, please, have, so I'll offer you three, four options, choose, just conclude, commit, not the Minister of Trade, but others, the Council of Ministers of BiH, whether, behold, justice. So there are qualified people to transfer and prepare us for the next time. Here, I'll give you that, if you have consent to me it's easy.
ParlaMint-BA_2010-02-03-0.u32229	We expect until the end of the discussion and the debate on the agenda to get in writing what you are looking for. Let's move on in the discussions. Dear Ambassador Branko Dokić. Here you go.
ParlaMint-BA_2010-02-03-0.u32230	Thank you, Chairman. Well, here, I'd like a few sentences on this initiative. Therefore, the PDP supports this initiative and supports this in both senses, and as my colleague Lagumdžija has also proposed to my colleague Lozančić, this means the following. It would really be good if, during today, perhaps after a break, the appropriate ministry prepared one of the information that would be given orally here. Within about fifteen minutes, what they can say right now. I'm saying this because different interpretations have already started, from approval to conviction, what's behind this. And I don't think it would be a good idea for MPs whose specific weight of words has been spoken, especially through the media, to be fairly large, based on these various assumptions, to assess what's been going on. Therefore, the PDP proposes that today we have one short information, a closed type, no media presence, and that detailed information be prepared for the next session, which will then open the discussion in this home. But I answered the discussion about something else. I have a proposal that, on the basis of Article 29 of our Rules of Procedure, one conclusion would be put on the agenda today, and that conclusion would be that our House would form a committee composed of representatives of all parties who are here in this home, whose task would be to make a draft law on the census within a relatively short period of time and deliver it to this home. In addition to this bill to produce one piece of information, as you would like to call it, which would include basic or key UN standards and recommendations relating to this issue, on the one hand, and that in this information, which would afterwards help MPs in deciding that one review of the relevant laws, of course, on this issue from neighbouring countries, could be an integral part of it and the standards and criteria of the list of populations in the former Yugoslavia's space of, it seems to me that the first one was '48. The year, until the one from '91. A year. This additional information, I think, would be convenient to make up in one environment in which all the parties that are here would be represented, so that MPs can then opt out for those solutions in the law that will be proposed. I think it's unnecessary to waste time now explaining in this home how significant this would be. I present this proposal of conclusion now offered by debate and at the last session, when, unfortunately, we refused that draft, I got the impression that we are not far away, that we have not spoken 19 languages or that law at all, but are burdened with some previous attitudes and such, and with little goodwill, I am convinced that we can come up with a solution that will be acceptable to most in this House, which will remove one obstacle on our path to European integration. And on the other hand, it will create conditions to, behold, say to the public that it is possible for us to agree on key things and not come into a position, I will now quote the chairman of our home, from a few days ago when he said he was afraid that the BiH Parliament would not turn into one kind of circus in the election year. Let's all make sure it doesn't really be and help these three people out there to keep the BiH Parliament as it is by the end, even in those times and in the year when it's the hardest thing to do to keep it as it should be.
ParlaMint-BA_2010-02-03-0.u32231	Thank you.
ParlaMint-BA_2010-02-03-0.u32232	...with that, I will write in writing what would be the goals and what would be the contents of the commission's work.
ParlaMint-BA_2010-02-03-0.u32233	Thank you. Dear Ambassador Sefer Halilović, discussion. Here you go.
ParlaMint-BA_2010-02-03-0.u32234	The Honorable Chairman. My proposal is to put on the agenda at today's session of the BiH Parliament – The problems of members of the Armed Forces of BiH, which in 2010 highlight the contract and find opportunities for their permanent care. In fact, I don't think it's necessary to explain this for a long time, but everyone here knows that the mandate expires during this year, or the contract ends for 2,750 members of the Armed Forces. I would just like to point out that this is not about, conditionally speaking, ordinary soldiers, it's about veterans who have spent more than 15 or 20 years of military service. And that in situations like this, in the past, entity parliaments, and this parliament, have found opportunities to resolve this matter more painlessly. We have a huge dissatisfaction within this group, a group of people. It's, I'd say, a small group with big problems, and I think, with a good will, with a correct attitude towards these people, that a solution can be found for, if not for all, then for the great majority of these members of the Armed Forces. If for any reason he can't do it today, I accept that it will be a part of the agenda at the next session of the BiH Parliament. Thank you.
ParlaMint-BA_2010-02-03-0.u32235	Thank you. 20
ParlaMint-BA_2010-02-03-0.u32236	Dear President, Dr. Milorad Živković.
ParlaMint-BA_2010-02-03-0.u32237	Thank you. I want to begin by saying that it is terrible that in this House we have come into a situation to count ourselves or to appoint those who are anti-fascists, who are fascists, those who are genocide, who are not genocide, those who are aggressors and those who are not aggressors, as well as those who are totalists and those who are not totalists. The fact itself has been defeated for this parliament and for BiH's democracy. When we talk about today's session, three of the proposals for the agenda have been made. One that we received in writing from the honourable MP Husein Nanić, who, by his composition and content, together with the accompanying material, has all business opportunities to be the point of the agenda today and needs to be the point of the agenda. On the other hand, we have a vaguely formulated initiative by the honourable MP Zlatko Lagumdžija (who in these years of parliamentary procedure) certainly knows the way in which the agenda and initiative can be proposed here. We've been working, and that's true, various exhibitions regarding the Rules of Procedure. I want to remind you that today's session will certainly not be complete and that next session is 17th, the follow-up to this session. The next session would be only March 10th. Could this information he was talking about wait until March 10th? But business is possible, as we did with the Convention here on Persons with Disabilities, to interrupt the session, to convene a new session with only one item of the agenda, which could be a way and a solution to discuss only that part of the agenda on February 17th. Therefore, I ask you, to define the agenda point and propose an initiative, is not difficult and requires only a little goodwill. Dear MP Dokić, I would ask him not to enter into the explanation of his initiative and suggestions on the agenda point, but only to read – Consider making a decision on forming a temporary commission. And then within that item of the agenda to say what that decision should consist of or if you already have prepared to put the decision as a point of the agenda in which you know what it is – goal, tasks, time and names of the person you propose to be members of that commission. These are some suggestions that I had, as the chairman of the BiH Parliament, to say the need to ask you all to do in this election year, I see that you are quoting my statement twice, to make this Parliament a place where ideas will conflict, not members. Thank you. Dear Ambassador Mirko Okolić, discussion. Here you go.
ParlaMint-BA_2010-02-03-0.u32238	Thank you, Mr. Chairman. 21 Mr. Sefer Halilović has proposed a agenda item for today's session or possibly for the next debate on the issue of demobilised, i.e. people who will be demobilized from the Armed Forces of BiH. I propose that he give up the requirement to be at today's session, because such a single point requires a more quality preparation, because I fear that without good preparation, this debate will be unquality and that we may not be able to draw any conclusions as to the debate that might be better quality, if this is well prepared. And I think it's objective to be for the next assembly. Thank you.
ParlaMint-BA_2010-02-03-0.u32239	I failed to elaborate the proposal of the honourable MP, Sefer Halilović, because we do not have the material for this agenda point. Business, it couldn't be today, but it doesn't necessarily mean it can't be at one of the next sessions when it comes to material. The College can be tasked with seeking this material in the form of an initiative, in parliamentary matters you have the opportunity to ask it to be an initiative and then you hire the College to obtain material, if you are not able to obtain it yourself. Replica, Reverend Slavko Jovičić. Here you go.
ParlaMint-BA_2010-02-03-0.u32240	Thank you, Mr. Chairman. Well, of course I've been keeping this replica now, and it needs to be replicated in time, but that's how the Rules of Procedure is. Mr. Sefer Halilović, when I was talking about the victims, I didn't deliberately point out which, how much, I don't know, but it's a false assumption, I wasn't talking about World War II in the areas of Europe, I was talking about the areas of ex Yugoslavia. So the incorrect assumption is that the Jevrej were the most injured, so as Mr. Sefer Halilović said, musliman, and Srbin. Mr. Sefera Halilović, you know very well, I'm going to open a topic, but not because I want to, but because they're facts, only in Jasenovac 550,000 Srbin were killed. Do you have those numbers? The other thing, I will not bid, and it would be God's sin, God's sin with sacrifices, the sacrifice of one man is, says the Biblija, the Kur'An, the Holy Scriptures, a crime committed against all mankind. It is true that most of the World War II killed Srbin at Yugoslavia's premises. Is that why your quote is incorrect? But don't bid on me, don't make me look for information like the historians said, I'm not a historian, and someone said. So these are the facts I was talking about. But when you started to tell the Jevreje that they were the most injured, if you thought in Europe, that's true, no one can dispute it, but if you think of the space of Yugoslavia then, then the Srbin were the most injured.
ParlaMint-BA_2010-02-03-0.u32241	Thank you. We don't have any more reports, I'm giving 10 minutes off so we can...
ParlaMint-BA_2010-02-03-0.u32242	No microphone 22
ParlaMint-BA_2010-02-03-0.u32243	Do you have a need?
ParlaMint-BA_2010-02-03-0.u32244	No microphone turned on
ParlaMint-BA_2010-02-03-0.u32245	Sefer Halilović, here you go, replica.
ParlaMint-BA_2010-02-03-0.u32246	Just for a minute, I was talking to... [[Common discussion]]
ParlaMint-BA_2010-02-03-0.u32247	Wait a minute. Here you go.
ParlaMint-BA_2010-02-03-0.u32248	So what I said is about the space of the former Yugoslavia. Take statistics, take serious statisticians and check out the historical facts. So, in the former Yugoslavia's space, the percentage, percentage, not by the number of heads, but by percentage, the most injured Jevrej, then second place are the Bošnjak Musliman, third place are Srbin... ___________) [[no microphone turned on]] ...in relation to the number of inhabitants, it is. And it's a historical fact that stands in readings, open up, look, and you'll see it's true.
ParlaMint-BA_2010-02-03-0.u32250	Thank you. Dear Ambassador Martin Raguž, replica. Here you go.
ParlaMint-BA_2010-02-03-0.u32251	Well, I replicate to colleagues who say they won't bid on numbers, and then they snap one four, five figures. I don't think that's really appropriate to such serious subjects. Thank you. 23
ParlaMint-BA_2010-02-03-0.u32252	Thank you. 10 minutes break to submit written proposals for changes and additions to the agenda. [[PAUZA]] My fellow Members and fellow Members, I would like to ask your patience to consider the proposals of the new agenda. In writing, we got a proposal. Let's go in order. It is the first of the honourable MP Husein Nanić, a proposal for a agenda point – the appointment of three representatives from the BiH Parliamentary Assembly's House of Representatives in the Commission for the Election and Monitoring of the Agency's work on the prevention of corruption and co-ordination of the fight against corruption. That would be, if adopted, a new point 29. Please prepare to vote. You can vote now. For 27, there were no abstentions. I figure this is a new point 29. We have a proposal for a new item of the agenda, a proposal for a conclusion – The Council of Ministers is tasked with special removal at the responsibility of the Ministry of Security, the Ministry of Justice, the Ministry of Human Rights and Refugees, the Ministry of Foreign Affairs, to prepare the Information on the Action "Lightness" carried out in 2.2.2010 with a proposal for measures and further activities, no later than the next session. Dear Ambassador Zlatko Lagumdžija has made a proposal for a conclusion. That would be point 30, if we adopted. Please prepare to vote. You can vote now. _________(?) [[no microphone turned on]]
ParlaMint-BA_2010-02-03-0.u32256	No microphone turned on
ParlaMint-BA_2010-02-03-0.u32257	Thank you. I find that we no longer have a proposal and ask for a little patience to read the adopted Agenda 1. The adoption of the 70th session of the House of Representatives; 2. Legislative questions: (a) Comments on answers received, (b) New parliamentary issues; 3. Proposal for a Law on Mine Action in Bosnia and Herzegovina – Proposer: Council of Ministers of BiH, Law No 01,02-02-8-54/09, from 3.6.2009 (second reading); 4. Proposal for a Law on the Protection of New Plant Varieties in Bosnia and Herzegovina – Proposer: Council of Ministers of BiH, Law No 01,02-02-2-111/09, from 1.12.2009 (second reading); 5. Proposal for a Law on Amendments and Supplements to the Customs Tariff Act of Bosnia and Herzegovina – Proposer of the Council of Ministers of BiH, Act No: 01,02-02-2-105/09, since 17.11.2009 (second reading); 6. Proposal for a Law on Amendments and Supplements to the Law on Foreign Direct Investment Policy in Bosnia and Herzegovina – Proposer: Council of Ministers of BiH, Act No: 01,02-02-4-115/09, of 9.12.2009 (second reading); 7. Proposal for a Law on Amendments and Supplements to the Law on the Public Television System of Bosnia and Herzegovina – Proposer: Council of Ministers of BiH, Law No 01,02-02-3-97/09, of 16.10.1909 (second reading); 8. Proposal for a Law on Amendments and Supplements to the Law on the Public Television Service of Bosnia and Herzegovina – Proposer: Council of Ministers of BiH, Act No: 01,02-02-3-98/09, since 16.10.2009 (second reading); 25 9. Proposal for a Law on Amendments and Supplements to the Communication Act – Proposer: Council of Ministers of BiH, Law No 01,02-02-3-99/09, since 16.10.192009 (second reading); 10. Proposal for a Law on Bond Relations – Proposer: Council of Ministers of BiH, Law No 01,02-02-5-3/10, from 18.1.2010 (first reading); 11. Proposal for a Law on Copyright and Related Rights – Proposer: Council of Ministers of BiH, Law No 01,02-02-2-5/10, of 18.1.2010 (first reading); 12. Proposal for a Law on collective exercise of copyright and related rights – Proposer: Council of Ministers of BiH, Law No 01,02-02-2-10, of 18.1.2010 (first reading); 13. Proposal for a Law on Amendments and Supplements to the Customs Policy of Bosnia and Herzegovina – Proposer: Council of Ministers of BiH, Act No: 01,02-02-2-1/10, of 6.1.2010 (first reading); 14. Proposal for a Law on Amendments and Supplements to the Law on the Basicity of Traffic on Roads in Bosnia and Herzegovina – Proposer: Council of Ministers of BiH, Law No: 01,02-02-3-8/10, since 19.1.2010 (first reading); 15. Proposal for a Law on Working Time, Mandatory Holidays of Mobile Workers and Road Transport Recording Devices – Proposer: Council of Ministers of BiH, Act No: 01,02-02-3-2/10, of 8.1.2010 (first reading); 16. Proposal for a Law on Amendments and Supplements to the Framework Law on Higher Education – Proposer: MP Denis Bećirović, Law No: 01,02-7-108/09, since 24.11.2009 (first reading); 17. Proposal for a Value Added Tax Act with the Commission's Opinion on Finance and Budget – Proposer: SNSD's Club, Act No: 01-02-4-35/09, of 10.4.2009; 18. Commission Report from the College on Efforts to reach agreement on the Proposal for a Law on the Completion of the Criminal Law of Bosnia and Herzegovina – Proposer: MP Denis Bećirović (first reading); 19. The Commission's report on the effort to reach agreement on the proposal of Parliamentarian Vinsk Zorić from the 68th session of the House, held in 30.12.2009, which reads: "700,000 KM will be allocated from the budget reserve for the top results of athletes. The funds will be available by the BiH Ministry of Civil Affairs, i.e. the BiH Council of Ministers, according to clearly built criteria, and can be obtained by alliances registered at the level of Bosnia and Herzegovina whose teams have achieved success in international competitions. The funds are allocated over the year when a good result is achieved. Also, the Ministry can support international teams-level competitions (the delayed statement at the 70th session of the House, held on 21.1.2010); 20. A report on the review of the donations made by the High Court and Prosecutorial Council of Bosnia and Herzegovina in the period 2006-2008 (Employment Office for the Review of BiH Institutions), Act No 01.02-16-1-1372/09, of 7.12.2009; 21. Report on the 2008 review of Bosnia and Herzegovina Public Broadcasting Service (the Office for the Audit of BiH Institutions), Act No: 01.02-16-1-1375/09, of 7.12.2009; 22. Selection of three members of the Management Board of the Agency for the Development of Higher Education and Quality Security for a period of three years (proposed single ranking list of candidates of the Temporary Joint Commission of both homes PSBiH No: 01,02-50-1-49-5/10, of 18.1.2010); 26 23. The appointment of a member of the House of Representatives in the Permanent delegation of the Parliamentary Assembly of BiH to the Parliamentary Assembly of the Mediterranean (instead of the late MEP Joza Križanović); 24. A statement on Parliament's initiative by Mirjana Malić to launch the activities of the competent state authorities (the Council of Ministers of BiH and the Parliamentary Assembly of BiH) to amend the BiH Constitution and the BiH Election Law in accordance with the European Court of Human Rights' judicial decision; 25. Declaration on Parliamentarian Adem Huskić's initiative for inclusion in the agenda of the House of Representatives: Decision to declare 27 January on the Day of Remembrance of Holocaust Victims; 26. Declaration on MP Adem Huskić's initiative for inclusion in the session agenda of the House of Representatives: Decision to declare July 11th on the Day of Remembrance of Genocide Victims in Srebrenica; 27. Statement on the initiative of MPs Remzija Kadrić, Sadik Bahtić and Adem Huskić for inclusion in the session agenda of the House of Representatives: Opening procedure for the resolution of Bosnia and Herzegovina's Management Board; 28. Changes in the membership of the Committee of the House of Representatives and the Joint Commission of both homes: (a) Selim Bešlagić is appointed member of the Joint Commission for Defence and Security of BiH, (b) Nermina Zaimović-Uzunović-Uzunović is appointed member of the Commission for Foreign Trade and Customs, and (c) Nermina Zaimović-Zaimović-Uzunović is appointed member of the Commission for Gender Equality, instead of the deceased Joza Križanović; 29. The appointment of three representatives from the BiH Parliamentary Assembly's House of Representatives in the Commission for the Election and Monitoring of the Agency's work on the prevention of corruption and coordination of the fight against corruption; 30. Conclusion: The Council of Ministers is tasked with preparing the Information on the Action "Lightness" carried out in 2.2.2010 with a proposal for measures and further activities by the next session at the latest; 31. Consideration of the decision-making initiative for the establishment of the Interim Commission of the House of Representatives to draft a bill on censuses, households and apartments in Bosnia and Herzegovina 2011; 32. Giving consent to ratification: (a) Agreement between the BiH Ministry of Foreign Affairs and the Federal Ministry of European and International Affairs of the Republic of Austria on Co-operation in the field of development, (b) Contract on a loan for a project to build a facility for the desumporisation of fuel gases for the Ugljevik thermal power plant between the Japanese Agency for International Co-operation and Bosnia and Herzegovina, (c) Loan and project between KfW, Frankfurt on May and Bosnia and Herzegovina and the Republic of Serbia and the Republic of Serbia and the Republic of Serbia – Water supply and sewerage in the city of Banja Luka (component 1: water supply), (d) Funding agreement and project between KfW, Frankfurt on the official work of the Republic of Serbia and the Republic of Serbia and the Republic of Banja Luka – City 27 water supply and waste management system in the city of Banja Luka Luka (component 2: Water Management Systems for Water Management of the Republic of the Republic of the Republic of the Republic of the Republic of Bosnia and the Vlada federativan Bosnia and the Republic of Bosnia and the Republic of Croatia, the Republic of Croatia, the Republic of Croatia, the Republic of Croatia, the Republic of Croatia, the Republic of Croatia, the Republic of Croatia, the Republic of Croatia, the Republic of Croatia, the Republic of Serbia, the Republic of Serbia, the Republic of Serbia, the Republic of Serbia, the Republic of Serbia, the Republic of Serbia, the Republic of Serbia, the Republic of Serbia, the Republic of Serbia, the Republic of Serbia, the Republic of Serbia, the Republic of Serbia, the Republic of Serbia, the Republic of Serbia, the Republic of Serbia, the Republic of Serbia, the Republic of Serbia, the Republic of Serbia, the Republic of the Republic of Serbia, the Republic of Serbia, the Republic of the Republic of Serbia, the Republic of the Republic of the Republic of the Republic of Serbia, the Republic of the Republic of the Republic of the Republic of the Republic of the Republic of the Republic of the Republic of the Republic of the Republic of the Republic of the Republic of Croatia, the Republic of Croatia, the Republic of the Republic of the Republic of the Republic of the Republic of the Republic of the Republic of Croatia, the Republic of Croatia, the Republic of the Republic of the Republic of the Republic of the Republic of the Republic of Croatia, the Republic of Croatia, the Republic of Croatia, the Republic of Croatia, the Republic of the Republic of the Republic We're moving on to the realization of the agenda. Point one, Ad. 1. The adoption of the 70th session of the House of Representatives You've got the record. Any objections to the record? I'm opening a debate. There are no reports. I'm closing the debate. Moving to point two, Ad. 2. Parliament Questions (a) Comments on answers received
ParlaMint-BA_2010-02-03-0.u32260	I'll try to be very brief. I asked one question in writing, when we agreed to do so in writing, and I asked the Ministry of Civil Affairs – because of the inconsistency of the Statute of the University of Tuzla with the Framework Law on the University, what should be done to bring the 28th Statute in line. I got an answer that deeply disappointed me and I got... in which the Ministry tells me that it's only competent to monitor implementation, and that there's no way to influence, other than looking for certain formations, which is, in other words, the member who's always in the law says that this law requires that the lower instance be aligned within 60 days, in fact, not respected. According to this response and the answer I received about the Public TV Service, it says that this point, meaning, mandatory harmonisation of lower laws with the law passed by this Parliament, has remained irresponsibly irresponsible – who is obliged to do so, what are the responsibilities in this regard. I'm satisfied with the answer, but I'm not satisfied with the quality of the answer because it puts me in a position to think here that, in fact, all the laws we've passed represent nothing, because there's simply no right to intervene in the harmonisation of these laws, the lower laws, or to blame. In that sense, I will ask a question in this second point on this – Who is in charge of this realization and what are the responsibilities for not implementing this law. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-BA_2010-02-03-0.u32261	No more.
ParlaMint-BA_2010-02-03-0.u32262	No microphone turned on
ParlaMint-BA_2010-02-03-0.u32263	Is that a new question? Answer, comment?
ParlaMint-BA_2010-02-03-0.u32264	No microphone turned on
ParlaMint-BA_2010-02-03-0.u32265	Here you are, Ambassador Azra Alajbegović.
ParlaMint-BA_2010-02-03-0.u32266	Dear Chairman, colleagues and colleagues, ladies and gentlemen. At the 21st session of the House of Representatives, which was 13.2.2008, I asked a question that was raised, for a reminder – how many of the funds of the BiH succession came into account and how many of them with today's account. I got an answer that was, in fact, kind of just a reminder of the law, without any concrete indicators and inadequate entirely. So I repeat the question because the answer states that the grant was received from 2003 to 2009, amounting to 170 million, that this was regulated by the Law on the distribution, use and use of financial resources obtained under aneks C – an agreement on the issue of succession declared by the High Representative, that the Law was published in the "Official Messenger of BiH" from 28.9.9. Actually, I didn't get the answer. So I repeat the question completely and ask that my question be answered the way it was asked. Thank you. 29
ParlaMint-BA_2010-02-03-0.u32267	Thank you. (b) New parliamentary questions First Deputy Chairman, Mr. Niko Lozančić. Please report to the others.
ParlaMint-BA_2010-02-03-0.u32269	Thank you, Mr. President. I have two questions of which one is shorter, one is a little longer. I'll start with this longer. One introduction, so the story goes about like this, that during the past year one of the courts of one of us neighbouring and supposedly friendly countries issued a court order ordering the application of so-called. Special measures or peopleally said listening to a BiH citizen's phone, and his phone numbers are the numbers of one of the bh, whose wiretaps were made. Telecom operator. It's supposed to be a bug and it's been done for a few months, and it's one fixed and one mobile phone. To make the story more interesting, the landline is not owned by the person to whom the measures were applied, but owned by his girlfriend. The mobile phone is neither its property nor its mother-in-law's property, it appears that the apparatus and the number of ownerships of BiH, i.e., is one of BiH's institutions. And to be clear, the court of another state has issued a warrant to the telecom operator of this state to listen to citizens of this state and to the official phone of one of the institutions of this state. This is all supposed to be. I ask the question to the BiH Council of Ministers, i.e. to the ministries of the BiH Council of Justice, Foreign Affairs, Security, Transport and Communications, and to all other authorities in this area, as well as the OSA, SIPA, to be clear, the Intelligence and Security Agency, the SIPA Agency, the Court and the Prosecutor's Office of BiH. Number one question – Has it ever, and especially during 2009, any of us neighbouring countries submitted any request to the BiH authorities for the application of this measure on BiH territory, and if so, how many cases and under what international contract or law has it possibly been approved? Question number two. – If the answer to question number 1 is by chance negative, then the following – do these same institutions, or any of these institutions to which this first question is referred, know that in this country the people of this country are being tapped by the order of the courts of other countries? If my findings are found to be true – what will the same institutions do to sanction themselves and prevent such opportunities in the future, if they are contrary to the applicable laws of BiH and international agreements and conventions ratified by BiH? To all of whom I have asked a question here, I publicly declare that I expect an urgent answer, and if the knowledge is confirmed, the hasty action of all the competent ones, i.e., to prevent such or similar occurrences. 30 Also the question – What are they planning to do on an international basis in order for other countries to behave like this, if they were and if they are illegal, prevent and condemn and sanction? The message – I will not be satisfied with the answers that they have no knowledge, can only be the resignation of the competent if they have no knowledge because they are incompetent. Secondly, the question goes to another institution. According to some of my information, the Federation of BiH Constitutional Court has for a long time emptyed the positions of three judges of the Federation of BiH Constitutional Court, one in the order of the Serb and one in the order of the Bosniak people. The fact that, in the composition of this important constitutional institution, there are one third of the total number of prescribed members missing significantly makes it difficult for the Constitutional Court of the Federation of BiH to function. The issue goes to the High Judicial and Prosecutorial Council – Why does the High Judicial and Prosecutorial Council of BiH obstruct the completion of the Federation of BiH Constitutional Court and when will the competent authorities of the Federation of BiH submit lists of qualified candidates for these vacant positions? Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-BA_2010-02-03-0.u32270	Thank you. Dear Ambassador Sadik Bahtić, the question. Here you go.
ParlaMint-BA_2010-02-03-0.u32271	Thank you. Dear chairman, respected colleagues and colleagues, members of the BiH Council of Ministers, distinguished guests, I warmly welcome you all. My question is for the Ministry of Transport and Communications, I wish the minister were here, but he's gone, and that's what it is – which is why so far, in accordance with the Annex of the Dayton Agreement, is not the establishment of the Postal Transport Corporation at the state level? Reason: Annex IX of the Dayton Agreement obliges us to do so, an agreement on the establishment of public corporations where, I quote, it aims to contribute to the reconstruction of infrastructure and the operation of traffic and other capacities which are of particular importance for the resuscitation of BiH and the smooth functioning of its institutions and organisations, the management of joint public capacities, these are traffic, postal, municipal, energy and other capacities that are relevant to both entities. That would solve the functioning of international postal traffic through... mail that would be at the level of a state corporation. Because of the lack of a corporation, there are problems in the field. ...mail now goes through, international traffic... goes through BH Mail. So BH Post is giving up income. Here, so we'll remain in the interest of the state, we suggest it go, because the other two operators are trying to get an international code... which means... and destabilisation and state. So, I think... the corporation is very important at the state level. And to welcome this question from my colleagues, Lozančić, he's absolutely right. And I'm a member of that OSA Commission. And I'm being followed by both legal and illegal... service and all. I'm not afraid, what I'm saying is I'm going to tell them in public in all the media. ...was a criminal. Thank you. 31
ParlaMint-BA_2010-02-03-0.u32272	Thank you. Dear Ambassador Sefer Halilović. Here you go.
ParlaMint-BA_2010-02-03-0.u32273	The Honorable Chairman. I have one parliamentary initiative and one parliamentary question. The MP's initiative is – The BiH Parliamentary House of Representatives College of the BiH Parliamentary Assembly is tasked with asking the BiH Council of Ministers for complete information on the state of the BiH Armed Forces, which in 2010 brings out a contract and a proposal for a solution for the same, so that the next session of the PSBiH House of Representatives discusses this important issue and decides. It's an initiative. And the parliamentary issue was addressed to the BiH Council of Ministers, more specifically, the minister of civil affairs, Mr. Sredoje Nović. The question is: Did the Management Board and the Faculty of Law in Sarajevo pay the employees at 14.5 salaries in September-December 2009 to all employees of the Faculty of Law? Explanation: According to a lot of reliable information, management and the Faculty of Law Supervisory Board in September-December 2009, in addition to regular salaries, employees were paid an additional 3.5 salary, most likely as some kind of stimulation or for these religious holidays and New Year's compensation. In December, in fact, in 24.12.2009, eight more salaries were paid to all employees under the company's work on a project. This means that employees at the Faculty of Law received 14.5 salaries in September-December 2009 in three months. In this country where the crisis hit the widest layer of population and in which the widest layer of population lives in poverty, the Law School should serve as an example of justice and justice in this country, not as an example, if this is true, corruption and crime in this country. Thank you.
ParlaMint-BA_2010-02-03-0.u32274	Thank you. Dear Ambassador Selim Bešlagić. Here you go.
ParlaMint-BA_2010-02-03-0.u32275	Dear Chairman, dear colleagues and colleagues. I said I got business answers in which I got the answer that, in fact, our laws, and it's a particular member who says that they have to agree to lower statutes with this law, they don't respect and simply can't realize that point. I got the answer when it comes to framework law for, let's say, high school. And secondly, I got an answer on the question of the Public TV system where we were again told that the FBH... television and RTRS did not comply with their laws with the law that we passed and therefore cannot enter into the creation of this corporation. In that sense, I'm asking one question. In all the laws adopted in the BiH Parliament, which states that lower-level laws should be brought into line by a certain deadline – Is this an obligation and who is responsible for the implementation of that obligation, as well as what sanctions for those who have not implemented that article? I ask the question of the College of the House of Representatives of the PSBiH and ask the answer in writing.
ParlaMint-BA_2010-02-03-0.u32276	Thank you. Dear Ambassador Azra Alajbegović. Here you go.
ParlaMint-BA_2010-02-03-0.u32277	Dear Chairman, colleagues and colleagues, ladies and gentlemen. I have one very short question to the BiH Council of Ministers, and it reads – How many processed applications for the granting of BiH citizenship and why is it not decided on these requirements on a timely basis, not entering, of course, the specific gravity of the decision? And as part of this question to answer me, how long is the longest demand, how short is the average of waiting for a decision on the assignment of citizenship, because I have information that there are processed demands that wait for a long time and do not resolve. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-BA_2010-02-03-0.u32278	Thank you. Dear Ambassador Lejla Klokić. Here you go.
ParlaMint-BA_2010-02-03-0.u32279	Dear Chairman, distinguished colleagues and colleagues. At the 32nd session of the Joint Commission on Human Rights, the rights of the child, youth, immigration, refugees, asylum and ethics, they discussed point 4. A report on monitoring the implementation of the Action Plan on Roma Educational Needs and other national minorities in BiH. Among other things, the report said that the BiH Council of National Minorities, in order to contribute to the process of revising the roma Educational Plan and other national minorities' educational needs in BiH, sent a letter to the refugee and human rights ministry asking one representative from the National Minority Council to participate in the task force. However, the answer to this suggestion has never been delivered, so I am interested in who are members of this working group led by the BiH Ministry of Human Rights and Refugees and to explain to me the reasons why this Council of National Minorities has not been answered so far. Thank you very much. 33
ParlaMint-BA_2010-02-03-0.u32280	Thank you. Dear Ambassador Rifat Dolić. Here you go.
ParlaMint-BA_2010-02-03-0.u32281	Gentlemen chairman, colleagues and colleagues, distinguished guests. I have two parliamentary questions. The first question is the BiH Council of Ministers – What legal incentives do today's economy, entrepreneurs, BiH producers have at their disposal in trying to maintain and increase production and exports and preserve jobs in this recession time that makes the same despair for employers and for those who are in daily danger of losing their jobs? To ask this question, I am encouraged to learn from daily conversations with businessmen, entrepreneurs, farmers and workers who are equally desperate to fight how in this recessional time to maintain or increase production, sales, exports and employment and do so in the belief that they are left to themselves, to the mercy of the market and recession, and are in an unequal position with those who, in the face of the consequences and impacts of the crisis and recession, are specifically and generously helping the state. These talks give the impression that businessmen, entrepreneurs, farmers, trade unions and others are not sufficiently informed about the symbolic incentives of production, exports and the preservation of jobs available in BiH in this recession time. For this reason, I ask the BiH Council of Ministers to make a summary of the incentives that, in accordance with current state, entity and cantonal regulations, are available to all in the fight to maintain and increase production, sales, exports and employment in this recession time. Also, I ask the media to devote more space to informing potential users of these incentives and procedures of their use. The second question is to the Minister of Finance and Treasury of the Council of Ministers of BiH – Is the funds collected for humanitarian purposes, by calling certain phone numbers, paid to VAT or commission operators? If that is true, I suppose, is there a possibility and what is the procedure for the collection of funds for humanitarian purposes of VAT release and an operator's commission, or for this part of the funds to be allocated as part of their participation in the humanitarian action? We are witnessing frequent humanitarian actions which, at the call of the number of the citizens, donate funds for some humanitarian purposes. The last in a series of such actions is the "Help for the People of Haiti" action to tackle the effects of a devastating earthquake. According to the knowledge that I have, this kind of collection of funds, therefore, is paid by VAT and even by the operator's commission often, and it turns out absurdly that for the state and the operating networks this kind of management of humanitarian actions, instead of humanitarian action, is actually business. At the very least, it would be normal for such actions to be released from VAT and commissions or for the state and operators to deposit these allocated funds as their participation in supporting actions. Thank you very much. 34
ParlaMint-BA_2010-02-03-0.u32282	Thank you. Dear Ambassador Vesna Šain. Here you go.
ParlaMint-BA_2010-02-03-0.u32283	The Honorable Chairman, ladies and gentlemen. My question is this – I ask the Regulatory Agency for Communications to answer me when they will call a competition for the assignment of radio frequencies? The Dervent municipality since November 2001 has not been able to broadcast a radio program from a study in Derventa. All attempts by the Communications Regulatory Agency to get a radio frequency that allowed the Doboj programme to be broadcast had no effect since the Derventa programme could not be monitored because there was no range.
ParlaMint-BA_2010-02-03-0.u32284	Thank you. Dear Ambassador Momčilo Novaković. Here you go.
ParlaMint-BA_2010-02-03-0.u32285	Dear colleagues and colleagues. In the BiH Ministry of Foreign Trade and Economic Relations, there is a Customs Policy and Tariffs Sector within which the Customs Regulations Control Department is. Media recently provided more information on the abuses of the Customs Tariff Act. With that in mind, I ask for an answer to the following questions: 1. Does the Department, or the Customs Regulations and Customs Control Sector, exercise this control regularly and regularly? 2. How effective is this control, i.e., is the budget inflow increased on the basis of its work? 3. What cases have this department controlled and what are the results? 4. What has been done in cases of possible irregularities? 5. Is the equipment donated by CAFAO to this department effectively used and what equipment is it? I ask the question to the BiH Council of Ministers, i.e. the Ministry of Foreign Trade and Economic Relations of BiH.
ParlaMint-BA_2010-02-03-0.u32286	Thank you. We don't have an MP named Adem Huskić. The next one is Ambassador Nermina Zaimović-Uzunović. Here you go. 35
ParlaMint-BA_2010-02-03-0.u32287	Dear colleagues and colleagues, the Honorable Presidency. I come from a city where all the questions are pollution. And for two years we have been working intensively on how to solve this problem, i.e., I would first of all ask the question here – how to prevent such problems from occurring elsewhere? I know very well that the sum of competencies in the field of ecology and aero-pollution belongs to the federal ministries. I also know that part of jurisdiction belongs to the cantonal ministries. And somewhere in between, I saw that there is also a state-level, within the framework of the BiH Ministry of Foreign Trade and Economic Relations, the Energy Sector within which there is a Department of Ecology, i.e. the Department of Ecology. I'll, with that in mind, ask two questions. In fact, we of some of these policies that we want to attract foreign investment do not worry that the state should not become a dump of old technologies and become a dump in Europe and the rest of the world. So I ask the following questions: 1. What has the BiH Ministry of Foreign Trade and Economic Relations done in the area of environmental protection against pollution resulting from the work of investors in the entire BiH territory? An example of Arcelor Mital and similar companies. 2. Did the BiH Council of Ministers' mechanisms, i.e. this ministry, provide protection from investors who come to BiH with dirty technologies? Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-BA_2010-02-03-0.u32288	Thank you. The following has been reported by honourable representative Adem Huskić.
ParlaMint-BA_2010-02-03-0.u32289	Thank you, Mr. Chairman, dear colleagues. I have one question for the Council of Ministers of BiH, which reads – why does the Public Undertaking "The Official Messenger of BiH" not apply amendments and additions to the Law on the Official Journal of BiH published in "The Official Journal" No. 103/09, and especially in view of the provisions of the Law on Freedom of Access to Information adopted by this Parliament, which are published in Official Journal No. 102/09? I'm just going to remind you that we've voted for amendments to the law that mean access to information to be free of charge. Unfortunately, here I am today... it's still not enabled, I don't know for what reasons. Just to remind the public and all of us here that, under the Freedom of Access to Information Act, one who does not give information commits a crime and the penalties are quite high. And as Majkl Mur did, I call on all BiH citizens to sue the "Official Messenger" for denying them the information they are obliged to give for free. Thank you. 36
ParlaMint-BA_2010-02-03-0.u32290	Thank you. The next is Remzija Kadrić, a respected representative.
ParlaMint-BA_2010-02-03-0.u32291	Thank you. I have one question, also briefly, to the BiH Council of Ministers, which reads – Is it also how much so far has been initiated by judicial and other legal protection proceedings for the return of property and property rights in accordance with aneks g to the sporazum on the Sucession of the former SFRY?
ParlaMint-BA_2010-02-03-0.u32292	Thank you. The next is distinguished representative Husein Nanić.
ParlaMint-BA_2010-02-03-0.u32293	I thank you, Chairman. My colleagues and fellow MPs. I would like to ask today a parliamentary question for the BiH Ministry of Transport and Communications, and this is the next one. Since there are several initiatives from my constituency, from the municipality of Buzim, which is supported by the municipalities of Velika Kladhu and Bosanska Krupa, for the retegorization of the regional road Velika Kladuma–Bužima–Bosnian Island in the masteral, as well as the request, also, the municipality of Tomislav City for the retegorization of the road by Karlov Han-Prisca in the main road... Given the existence of a number of requests for retegorisation, and the real need for new road categorisation, I ask the minister – will the Ministry launch a single criteria for the categorisation of the highways at BiH level? And the next thing I want, not to ask a question, but to get an answer today, if there is someone here from the Council of Ministers of BiH that can give us, is an answer and a comment on the report on the remaining requests of the European Commission left to BiH for the visa-free regime. They're nine. (Many of them are said to be in progress, saying), monitoring comes next Monday, so European Commission representatives to look into this situation. I, indeed, call on someone, does the Council of Ministers of BiH have any information on these nine remaining obligations to inform us about this issue now? I'm not asking for a written answer to this question, but I'd like it to be said here now, if there is anyone.
ParlaMint-BA_2010-02-03-0.u32294	Thank you. If any of the members of the BiH Council come forward, we'll give him a chance. The next is Honourable representative Željko Kuzmanović. 37
ParlaMint-BA_2010-02-03-0.u32295	Thank you, Deputy Chairman. Dear colleagues. My question is addressed to the Board of Directors of BHRT and the Ministry of Transport and Communications. Please the Board of Directors of BHRT and the Ministry of Transport and Communications to provide me with information on the donation of Saudi Arabia, I think that the Kingdom of Saudi Arabia was, for the digitisation of the public service broadcaster in BiH and an explanation of the potential intermediate role of the company "HA MEDIA" from Zagreb in the realisation of this donation? Reason: Written media has been increasingly speculating lately on the donation of the Kingdom of Saudi Arabia to close the entire financial structure for the digitisation of the Public TV Service. A figure of about $35m or euros is mentioned, I don't know what currency is now, so I think it's time for the BiH Parliamentary Assembly to be informed about this broadcast donation. Thank you.
ParlaMint-BA_2010-02-03-0.u32296	Thank you. The next is Honorable Representative Halid Genjac.
ParlaMint-BA_2010-02-03-0.u32297	Thank you, Chairman. Dear colleagues and colleagues. I have a question to the Director of the Communications Regulatory Agency – What is the Agency for Communications, therefore, the Regulatory Agency for Communications has taken over or will take action to respond to a large number of dissatisfactions who have protested about the broadcast content in the latest episodes of the series "lud, Confused, Normal"? The law on freedom of religion and the legal position of churches and religious communities, which we have adopted here in the Parliamentary Assembly of BiH, in Article 5, attitude 2 prohibits disdaining... or disdaining and also mocking any religion. At the same time, the Law on Public TV Service and Public TV repairers establish a very clear and explicit obligation to respect different traditions and their members, as well as to exclude and categorically eliminate offensive interpretations of content and facts. It is quite possible that it is not a deliberate error, a deliberate provocation on one emitter, but this emitter cannot give an answer – it is not offensive or it is offensive. The believers know what is offensive to them. It is also an unacceptable response from the author or one of the authors of the series, we have offended the members of one confession, so we have offended the members of the other confesionation. That is why I think that in the interest of this servicer, the public broadcaster, it is in the interest of the entire public that the Regulatory Agency for Communications takes what is its legal obligation and informs the BiH Parliament. Thank you.
ParlaMint-BA_2010-02-03-0.u32298	Thank you. We don't have any more applications to ask questions. We don't even have the answer to the question, and I'm closing item two on the agenda. We're going to the third item of the agenda, Ad. 3. Proposal for a Law on Mine Action in Bosnia and Herzegovina – Proposer: Council of Ministers of BiH (second reading) At the 57th session of the House, held in 8.7.2009, the Law was adopted in the first reading. At the 62nd session, the House did not adopt a negative report, and the law was returned to the commission to deliver a new report. The competent Commission for Human Rights delivered the report 1.2 with 6 amendments adopted. I'm opening a debate on the draft law in the second reading. Dear Representative Šefik Džaferović.
ParlaMint-BA_2010-02-03-0.u32300	Mr. Chairman, colleagues and colleagues, ladies and gentlemen. I'm glad Minister Nović is here, and I think it's time to clear up some things when it comes to this law. There is a claim, and a very serious claim, that if we adopt this law, as it has been proposed and as it has passed in the Commission, we will not have the support of donors for the process of demining in BiH. So far, BiH has not singled out anything for demining the budget, so the state level does not single out anything and the funds invested in demining come from international donors. Donors warn, and especially those great, therefore, seriously, that this text of the Law is a text that will prevent them from continuing with the demining programme in BiH. The main reason for this is the concern of a possible non-transparent process in the process of demining BiH itself. This is a very serious matter for us, and if this is as it is, then we cannot support the text of this law because it is better to remain an existing legal solution and continue the process of demining in BiH, rather than adopt such a law and put the process of demining at risk. I would ask, for the sake of the general public and all of us here, Minister Nović, I know that he has been engaged in intensive consultations and talks, and by those who grant us a donation, I am in the course of the complete process, to look at this issue, to give the BiH Parliament reasons why this law, why, why is the demining commission being abolished? Why is the demining commission being served as one of the key regulators in this process of demining, transparency of the process, etc? Why is inter-resor activity abolished because the demining process went with this inter-resor coordination? Is it possible for the Ministry of Civil Affairs to do this together? And what are the guarantees that this process will continue to be such that it will not break the flow of international donations to BiH? That's it, thank you. 39
ParlaMint-BA_2010-02-03-0.u32301	Deputy Chairman, Mr. Lozančić.
ParlaMint-BA_2010-02-03-0.u32302	Thank you, Mr. President. Ladies and gentlemen of the MPs, distinguished members of the BiH Council of Ministers. I haven't seen a smaller law in a long time, and more lobbying for or against. Unfortunately for me, I am a member of this committee who has been assigned to the jurisdiction of this law and I must say that I have been impressed by the tenacity and patience of many who have been committed to assure us of their truth, to convince us that what has now been offered by the Council of Ministers of BiH is a disaster. I must say, I don't know how many... they didn't scare me, but they tried to scare us into this law, so what three people have been doing so far called the Demining Commission, so this activity goes into the power of a ministry that has a lot more than three men and a Council of Ministers, that the system falls, or that, if it comes out of this commission, the donors don't believe that it will be transparent, they only trust these three and no one else. Maybe it's all like that. And I am aware that this country needs funds to demining. I am aware that there is still an awful lot of surfaces in this country to be demined. I am aware of what has been done so far, but I cannot accept that anyone convinces me, no matter how well-intentioned I am, that I trust more to one commission than to my entire government. More to one commission than to all one ministry. And I don't even know who to trust anymore, and I want to believe that we have to start believing in our own institutions. And I don't see any reason for anyone to be afraid. I don't see a particular reason why the donor's fear is about to become untransparent. Well, I'm just expecting the other way around. I think it will be much more transparent through the BiH Council of Ministers and more people will be involved. So, more people, it automatically reduces the possibility of non-transparentity. And I haven't heard, I have to say, except for this fear of many that it's going to go all wrong and the fear that he's not going to give us any more money if it's not how they think, I haven't heard the argument about it. So, I'm responsible for saying, on the committees that I've been on, I haven't been on the last one when it's been reconsidered, I'm not even sorry that I haven't been, to be honest, I'm a little sick of the debate on this subject, because I haven't heard any arguments, but, as we're afraid, I don't need to, and I'd like to ask the Minister of Civil Affairs to say if it really is, whether it's really going to be closed, whether the minister himself decides how that money is going to be spent or has some more transparent system. Do we really have the capacity within the Ministry, the Council of Ministers of BiH to take over this part of the tripartite commission. If we do not, then I will join those who assured me that it is better to remain a three-member commission than to move everything into the authority of the BiH Council of Ministers and the competent ministry. Thank you very much. The next is Remzija Kadrić, a respected representative.
ParlaMint-BA_2010-02-03-0.u32303	I thank you, Chairman. 40 I will shortly trace what Ambassador Džaferović and You and Lozančić said. So, we received the Joint Commission Report in the material, there is this final sentence in which it stands – The Joint Commission, after the debate in which it received assurances from Minister Sredoje Nović that the proposal for a law on anti-mining action in BiH will be without prejudice to the Agreement, the Memorandum of Understanding between BiH and the Republic of Slovenia, above all regarding international donations to the process of demining in BiH, with 5 votes for and 3 against the proposed law. So, this is the position of the Joint Commission, this is the opinion of the Joint Commission, and therefore, indeed, here is an opportunity for Minister Nović to confirm ourselves in some way under this law. Thank you.
ParlaMint-BA_2010-02-03-0.u32304	Thank you. The next is the distinguished representative Azra Alajbegović.
ParlaMint-BA_2010-02-03-0.u32305	Dear Chairman, colleagues and colleagues, ladies and gentlemen. I will try to discuss the Anti-minal Action Act in BiH very briefly at this stage of the parliamentary procedure, as we know that the committee responsible has made decisions on the report on this law on several occasions. On our last commission on which, behold, Mr. Chairman and the current chairman was not, we gave a positive opinion on this law and on the Federation of BiH and I, as a representative of the BiH Party, voted to make this report positive, my reasons are next and I would like to draw Dom's attention to some statistics that I have. A total of 1,694 people were killed in BiH since 1992, up to today 5,033 and in the post-war period, 495 people were injured, 533 people were injured, 646 people had no data on their deaths. As for the demining accidents, the record of demining accidents since 1997 led to today by MAC, and later, as successor, BH MAC, during this period in BiH, 103 deminers were killed, including the death outcome of 40 deminers, 37 deminers with severe injuries and 26 deminers with minor injuries. These are some statistical indicators that say, in any case, that it is absolutely absolutely necessary to regulate anti-mining action in BiH in a good way, since we know that this is a very ambitious project that stems from the fact that we have a significant number of leftover mines from the last war. The proposal for this law is concerned that we will actually be left without donor funds, given that the demining is mostly financed from donations, (which is, in fact, in some way), according to how I read this law and how much I have done the talks and how much I have informed myself, I believe that this bill provides better and wider solutions in terms of financing anti-mining action in BiH compared to the current Demining Act, which was published in Official Messenger No 5/02, which is currently in force, the Demining Act is regulated by Article 15 in which it is said – the Committee of Donors was established as a body 41 which supports the work of the Commission and BH MAC, and consists of representatives of UINDP, OHR and other donors. The Co-chair of the Committee of Donors shall appoint a High Representative for BiH and the UN. Representatives of international organisations, governments supporting the mine removal programme, will be invited to be members of the donor committee. Members of the Commission shall participate in the work of the Committee of Donors. The BH MAC Director may, as appropriate, be invited to submit a report to the Committee of Donors. The donor committee will exist as long as members consider it necessary. In addition to the Committee of Donors, other international bodies may be established to participate in the demining process, which will be regulated by the relevant acts. It is clear from this article that the now applicable Demining Act partially regulates the financing of anti-mining activities, i.e. to mention only donor funds without regulating funding from funds at the level of BiH, entities, cantons and municipalities. It is also clear that the entire system of organisation of the donor committee is very complex and complicated, as it is envisaged that the donor chairman appointed a High Representative and a UN, which is absolutely problematic in some way. Finally, in the current Demining Act, the UINDP, in a way, is a central foreign body involved in financing and organising anti-mining activities in BiH, which has not worked in this way for two years because they have withdrawn from active participation in this direction. The proposal for a Anti-minal Action Act provides funding regulated by members 19th and 20th, which said funds for financing mine action are provided from the BiH budget, donations and loans, as well as from the entity and Brcko District budgets, and cantonal and municipal budgets, which absolutely creates wider and better opportunities for the overall anti-mining process in BiH. The proposal of the Anti-minal Act does not restrict in any part the possibility of funding from donor funds, but rather gives donors additional security in their own actions, since it also prescribes mandatory funding from budgets at all levels. As the only state institution in this jurisdiction, the organisation, management, control, issuing of the anti-mining control in BiH, I believe that, in some ways, the Mine Removal Centre built the Anti-mining Action Strategy in BiH for the period 2009-2019, carried out an analysis of the interest of traditional anti-mining donors in BiH and in some ways made it clear that the contribution over the next five years will be unchanged, and that there will be a gradual decline in the interest of the traditional anti-mining action donors in BiH in all levels of government. The draft law provides for the establishment of full jurisdiction in anti-mining activities by the Ministry of Civil Affairs, and in this sense the current Mine Removal Centre would improve its status at the Ministry's Agency, so that the Demining Commission would, in some ways, wish, by my personal court, retain the status quo. Following a genesis of regulatory development that was established in 1996, the anti-mining structure in BiH, it is quite clear that the Demining Commission was established in 1998 to coordinate entity MACs and later as a transitional solution to improving functions within BiH institutions. The bill leads to a target state when the commission becomes, in some ways, unnecessary and its functioning questionable, and which is in agreement with the organisation of the administration, since administrative organisation does not know the concept of professional service, which BH MAC is for now. 42 In that sense, I find it unacceptable to obstruct, in a way, the adoption of such a law and my reasons to define myself, as a member of the Commission for Human Rights, the rights of young people, refugees, asylum and ethics, and to support this bill at this stage of parliamentary procedure, were for these above reasons. Especially given the fact that the procedure and alignment of law adoption takes a very long time, so that we can say that we have, in some ways, the consequences for the security of the deminers and for the safety of the citizens of BiH. At the same time, I believe that the failure to adopt the proposed law also slows the process of BiH's Euro-Atlantic integration, as its qualification as a country extends to highly polluted mines, as well as extending the risk to the entire population, especially those living near risk areas. So, in fact, most of the content of the proposed law refers to the technical solutions offered by the Law in terms of the security of the mines and citizens, and to the establishment of stable financing, quality financing, organised funding and, in some ways, by my own court, I believe that the Law is approaching BiH to countries where there are and in which world standards, world conventions in the field of demining are respected. And these were the reasons that set me up to vote on the Human Rights Commission for a positive opinion on this law. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-BA_2010-02-03-0.u32306	I thank the honourable representative. _________(?) [[no microphone turned on]] Or wait, here, we have another registered representative. Dear Representative Bakir Izetbegović.
ParlaMint-BA_2010-02-03-0.u32308	So, about everything has already been made, I'd just focus on donor funds, since, I think, over 150 million so far has been given from the international mining community... We didn't plan anything this year, they're planning 28 million. Therefore, this law should have taken that into account and adapted to the fact that there is an international community that so generously helps the process of demining and that it has its methods, way of working. So she didn't start with BiH, she spends money all over the world, she has a very good organisation, she has principles based on which she works and on which she trusts. She doesn't give... she wants control over what's being demined and how the job stands. And it should have been very much in mind and this law should have been very tailored to that fact if we wanted that money, and he ignored it, he set it pretty tightly. So I think, if it comes to the fact that the law doesn't pass today, that in the next proposal, please, you have that thing in mind and you adapt it to that fact and the method of working those who give and the principles of work of those who give funds for demining. Thank you. 43
ParlaMint-BA_2010-02-03-0.u32309	Thank you. The word has been given by the honourable minister, Mr. Sredoje Nović.
ParlaMint-BA_2010-02-03-0.u32310	Dear Mr. Chairman, honourable MPs. I join, too, that I'm a little surprised that this law, and it's a good thing it did, caused interest. But here, you see, what confuses me is, to this moment, I don't know what's controversial about the law. I'm so sorry. I, or my ministry, is according to the BiH Council of Ministers, the BiH Council of Ministers unanimously adopted and headed for parliamentary procedure. You have on two occasions extended the amendment phase and to this day I don't know who of you has come to this ministry and said that – and that, and this law is not good, we propose that and that amendment. I will not bring forth out of my dignity, from my own land, and from those who have passed on to me, and from those who have traveled, that I may bring forth here what has been passed on to me, in a far country, who is and why and what there has been sought. I don't want to do it for a lot of reasons, because I'm keeping my dignity, but I'm also keeping this home's dignity. But I want to remind you this, this is not the law that Sredoje Nović is interested in, (this is not the law that each of you should just be individual). This is a law that should serve the citizens of BiH, to eliminate the entire area of BiH as soon as possible. Why did the amendments to this law come, or the adoption of a new law? I want to remind you of a few things. First, we adopted the Demining Strategy in BiH last year in 2009-2019. It is a strategy that must have been adopted under the Otva Convention and where we have made every effort for experts, experts, which the domestically speaking, to determine exactly what hodogram it is that BiH would finally, unfortunately, only in 2019 be cleared of mines. And according to the strategy, BiH needs 35m euros to clear itself of mines annually. It's a huge asset. And imagine now one Minister of Unserious who would say and allow himself to say – what do I care about demining, let's pass a law in which we will reject all BiH donors. I simply cannot believe that such a sits, not on this or any other post, but in BiH at all, if there were a BiH citizen who would allow it, not to use an ugly word. But what's the difference between this and the last law? Here, I'd like to hear it. I think that's correct to say. It is correct to hear what is the problem of this law. Why did we choose to bring a new one? For another reason, therefore, one is a strategy. Only on the basis of the strategy can we plan budgets in the Budget of BiH. In order to plan budgets in the demining budget, we need to know who will, how we will spend those funds. That's what this law has to regulate. So, above all, the budget that BiH separates from its citizens, which will separate, must be known how it will be spent. And what's more normal than saying that the funds that BiH is disbursing in the budget will be used through the Ministry of Civil Affairs, which, according to the Public Procurement Act, will be implemented and spent. I don't know next time. Maybe there is, I'd like to hear it that way. So that's the other thing that made us choose to be. Third, I received several ambassadors who asked me – can you receive donations directly, not through the IT fund, we do not want to go through the IT fund, we want BiH to donate funds directly to the budget. I said, we can't take 44, or we can't spend it because I don't have a way to do it. That's what this law so far doesn't allow. Why? Because it's 12 or 11.12'98. BiH signed with the Government of the Republic of Slovenia a Memorandum of Understanding, where it is said that, starting from partnership co-operation, they have agreed to co-operate as an equal partner in removing the consequences of the recent war, etc., they have agreed that all foreign countries, donors who want to do so, can donate to demining through the IT fund, the Slovenian, which was founded, not only for relations with BiH, but which has now grown into a much wider fund and from which part of the demining in Croatia, Kosovo, Serbia and the countries in the environment is being financed, and the issue of Avganistan is now being considered. What kind of cake we get, it's now a matter of donor arrangements and, of course, those sitting on the donor board. So, I don't know what's going on here. That memo I'm talking about is a memo that we don't question, in any word we're not in the law, I'd like to have someone suggest it if there is, where it's said that we won't respect that memo. Even if we say it in the law, you are very enough and legal and political, not to say, educated, that you understand that international regulations, or contracts that one country makes with another, are above domestic legislation. So this memorandum was concluded then for two years and it is said, it will take up to two years and can be extended. And he went on every year. So, two years later, by somewhere in the middle of last year, when it was also necessary to extend this memorandum and where we were having talks with the director of the IT fund, then Mr. Gačnik and agreed that two delegations meet and see what else needs to be changed in this agreement, because something from this memo was never even implemented. Why? Why have we not always fully implemented what the Memorandum predicted? And we agreed in the end (not in '98, not even the names of numerous institutions the same today that BiH has). Mr. Gačnik, meanwhile, left the post, came in second, and this ministry sent one letter proposing that we meet and continue the talks, to conclude, or continue the co-operation on that. So, what's the big deal? When you talk about the commission, I just want to remind all of you of point 5. A memorandum saying -- the BiH Council of Ministers will be presented on the Slovenian Fund Advisory Committee in the same number as representatives of Slovenia. So, the BiH Council of Ministers will decide who will be sitting there, and no minister will decide, regardless of whose name it is. Of course, I don't want to say anything bad, it's up to you, as MPs, to determine whether this act is good or not, but ask me to make sure there's going to be a donation interruption or not, I don't think it's okay, because imagine, can you give a guarantee, as a BiH Parliament, that something will be respected? I'm not in charge of such a guarantee, nor am I allowed to, nor do I want to take the right to do so, but I am doing everything I can to make sure that this law does not endanger such relations with the IT fund. The IT fund is too serious a fund to question. Through the IT Fund, BiH receives huge funds. If you have, gentlemen, someone who has met with the responsible or I don't know which people, here, I am really at my disposal to see which amendments can be intervened, changed, so at least I haven't shown, to say, stubbornness or obstruction to come to an even better law. So (in my place), or I don't see what others see, that some of the provisions of this law will compromise the process of demining. But if someone for some other reason, someone from the donors, thinks the time has come when donations will no longer go as they go, so someone should be guilty, it's something else. I don't want to speculate, I don't have the right to. I am obliged to act according to what I have in front of me. I am standing, therefore, at your disposal to all of you, the BiH Parliament, 45 if you make any decision, I will consistently implement it. Whether it will be passed law, will you extend it, will you draw a conclusion in which you will say, regardless of this law, that the relationship between BiH and the IT fund will be at risk, I, here, offer all these variations. But you are Parliament, and I will truly respect your every decision without any burden. Thank you.
ParlaMint-BA_2010-02-03-0.u32311	I thank the Honorable Minister. Replica, distinguished representative Šefik Džaferović.
ParlaMint-BA_2010-02-03-0.u32312	Dear Chairman, colleagues and colleagues, Mr. Minister Nović. The international organisation with which I have communicated and which has its head office in BiH is called the UNDP. So, I'm going to say it openly and it's the communication that I had and I've had communication with the representatives of the government of a country, I'm not, of course, going to speak the name of that country, but the country that gives the most funds for demining in BiH. The Commission's Defence College, which our College didn't give this law to jurisdiction, but at the Human Rights Commission, we talked about it last time, I'm not going to talk about it right now, it's been traveling and it's been in the government headquarters of a country that's a donor, which gives money, and it gives the most money. So we've been communicating with an international organisation that's also in charge of the government of the state that gives the most funding. No matter how much they give, that country gives so much alone. We were told that this was a problem. So the problem is in procedures that donors and obligations they have to comply with according to their bodies, parliament, there is no donation directly to the government or to demining. The donation goes according to these rules, these funds or through these funds. And because of that, it has been said that there is serious doubt whether this project will be continued or not. We don't know if he will. If the existing legislation remains, it will continue and we will have demining. Last year, over the AITF 28 million dollars, I think. If this law is passed, we don't know. It'll be estimated if that's what pleases those who give us the money. BiH in its state budget this year has singled out a zero for demining zero. Now, you have to understand, I understand you, you want to introduce the system and I respect it and I am about you, as a minister who wants the system, I've already spoken here several times and I will always say it. But you have to understand me, as an agent who comes into a position to talk to representatives of an international organisation called the UNDP and representatives of the government that gives the most funds for this fund, and then gets this information, I am speaking publicly about them here. And then they say they're gonna get in touch with the ministry, they're gonna make some amendments, and then we get in a position that none of that's changed, and we all know there were contacts. I'm glad that you want to introduce the system and I respect it and I like this one at the end of the finding, that you don't mind sitting down, so, you, if you need representatives of these international organisations who are interested and who else needs to sit down and see what it is that needs to be built into the law, that we guarantee, when I raise my hand here, I want the law, 46 I am not against the law, but when I raise my hand to the law, that I know that my country will get that money and that they will be spent and better, in a better way than they have ever been spent. I suggest that we postpone the plea today, get this back into the commission phase, we have such customs, whether, we had it, and sit down, so that the Human Rights Commission knows who they need to talk to, please nicely, who they need, the minister to come to the commission, to come to those people who claim it, and to see what it is satisfactory. I will vote for any solution that is satisfactory to continue the demining process in BiH. That's it, thank you.
ParlaMint-BA_2010-02-03-0.u32313	Deputy Chairman, replica.
ParlaMint-BA_2010-02-03-0.u32314	Well, I don't mean to rephrase to anyone in particular, but I'm thinking of replicating the views that I tried to explain in my first address. What Mr. Džaferović is proposing, another delay. We can postpone, we're at least masters of delay... so it won't be the first or last time we've put off something infinitely long, and we've put this off by now. All those who would possibly be sitting with someone here, including me, including each of you, I think it is best that we invite them to a session of the BiH Parliament. Because I'm not sure if they're sitting with me that you're going to accept what I'm told. They sat there, they had the opportunity to sit at the sessions of this committee that was considering this and they didn't convince me, or they didn't offer me any arguments other than fright. I'm glad to hear from you that you haven't heard any arguments, nor a proposal for a new solution, but a fright. And I'm going to remind you, in the context of this topic, it doesn't have to do with it, we've formed a commission in this home, before I know how much time, about half a year or so, which I hope to do something, and we've given it the task of dealing with all the benefactors of this country, or anyone who donated something to this country. And we today, not wanting to minimize the help we've been getting, not wanting to be ungrateful, so I want to thank all those who have helped in any way this country. But I have to say first, when I hear in this country it's said, some say, seven billion, some say 10 billion, some say 15 billion something. If the mark is a lot, if the dollar is even more, if the euro is even more. I'd really like to know once how much of all the benefactors have gotten into this country. If it's much less than what they're saying, this country should be gilded by now. And, normally, skillfully manipulated, then we, me, complain about how we're thieves, because if we hadn't stolen that money, everything here would be honey and milk. A little tomorrow. So far, no one's asked me, and now I see this, so I'm against this lobbying, so that's why I'm against, no one's asked me, all those funds have been spent without me and without my consent, that donated. For they said to me, "What do you want to ask? This is our money? We have run them." And I'm in need, considering that I need that help, just like I do mines, and I chat my ears, and I accept it, so they build me a house that crashes in half a year, because they haven't even done the foundation, but they showed it well that they paid for it. And don't let them build us houses that will collapse and show us where we stole that money. Don't do that again. 47 If we do so and give it to the Ministry of Civil Affairs, or to any ministry, or to the Council of Ministers of BiH, then I will rightly ask both the Minister and the President and the other Minister – what would happen to these demining money? I can ask him. Can I ask someone today, of all the demining donors, what's up to now and how it's been spent? Do I have that option? And it's about my country, it's about a very important job in my country. I don't have any insight. I've got what they tell me so descriptively, and all I have left is to believe or be dissatisfied. I would like to be and be satisfied and want to repeat again – with all due respect, with all the help that BiH has given, all its peoples and citizens, I would rather trust our institutions than all the benefactors. Those who are well-intentioned, who want to help this country and its people, I see no reason why they doubt our institutions in advance, and, behold, they trust only themselves. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-BA_2010-02-03-0.u32315	Thank you. Dear Ambassador Husein Nanić, a discussion. Here you go.
ParlaMint-BA_2010-02-03-0.u32316	I thank you, Chairman. Indeed, the Minister’s discussion has helped me greatly to understand certain situations relating to the law regarding the need to pass a new law regarding the situation with the old law. However, what we know here in the Parliamentary Assembly is that we have brought Budget for 2010 and in it about 7 million marks for 189 employees of the Demining Agency, MAC as it is called, BH MAC and zero fening for the jobs that the agency is supposed to do, means, for what it is primarily founded, it means for the process of demining. At the same time, we also have the minister's claim here that if he gives up his way of funding so far, no one can guarantee whether these donors will remain consistent with their way of working and supporting the process of demining BiH. And we have this situation that we have zero fening in our budget. I believe, and until now, the minister has indeed shown, it should also be publicly pointed out everywhere, that he has shown a correct, good, normal relationship with the BiH Parliamentary Assembly, according to the regulations that came from this ministry and can indeed be commended about the minister's relationship with the problems of this jurisdiction, from the ministry's jurisdiction. However, if I were really in your position, I don't know if I could represent such an attitude and whether it's good just to push such an attitude, that in one way that, here, we get information from those biggest donors that it's a questionable way, that I still insist on it and that on the questionnaire I know or I don't know whether this process of demining will continue or not. Although we have a strategy, it says 35 to 40m euros a year in..., by 2019, it should be invested to make the process happen. Here they are, I think it's really the same goal for us, that it's of interest to us, and through this law or former law, the process of demining to continue, that it gets even stronger support, that it gets the support of BiH institutions and international donors, etc. And to get it one controlled way, how to do it in BiH, that what Mr. Lozančić said doesn't happen that way. This is the case in all parts (that donors) and certain malfeasances have been proven, however, you are in a position to take what you are offered and to keep quiet, right? And in that sense, I think it's a good idea to try and find a way, if possible, for both systems to exist. Because if we had 28 million dollars of demining funds in 2009 through the fund that went through, and if you say you had a conversation with certain embassies from certain countries, if it's symbolic support, and if we lose significant support, if it's a request from those embassies, it's really minimal, some of them who, well, want to participate, or maybe it's beyond, or maybe it's twice as big, or I don't know how much, relative to these assets that we have, are really issues that we should honestly and clearly consider. (Not that there is anything to be said) someone there talked to someone, some delegation, etc., but that we, in the interest of the citizens we represent, should make the best solution to the process of demining. In that sense, I think you'd be good at this process. We will not lose anything, we have a law that exists, a process, so it can continue to go, to exhaust all these possibilities, all this information to face and to make the best solution, perhaps to bring both of these processes in transparently and clearly into the process of demining in BiH. In that sense, so I support this proposal to give these talks one more chance and the possibility of these two options being incorporated into this law.
ParlaMint-BA_2010-02-03-0.u32317	Thank you. Minister Sredoje Nović has a word. Here you go.
ParlaMint-BA_2010-02-03-0.u32318	I really didn't say one word, nor do I have the right, no matter what kind, not to say, to take or leave the ultimatum. It is up to you to decide, and ultimately, the responsibility is on us, as the Council of Ministers of BiH, whether the law will be passed or not. If you make this decision, once again, to adopt or not to return, I, as a resolute minister, am at the disposal of everything you suggest, through the amendment phase, that together with you, it is not the first law, we agree and that there is a solution. So that's my perfectly clear view. And with regard to the UNDP, I must say to the honourable MP, you see, on 19 November 2008, Mrs. Kristina Meknev, the UN resident coordinator in BiH, writes on behalf of the UNDP -- "I thank you for having made an insight into the proposed Demining Act. According to our understanding, this draft puts responsibility for the overall demining management of your Ministry. In our opinion, it is a very progressive step that is likely to get the support of interested NGOs. This will undoubtedly include a certain capacity-building within your ministry, and I would like to remind you that the UNDP remains willing to continue helping" etc. "Our feeling is that it would also be good for BH MAC directors to work only with you and your Ministry, and that all demining issues can reach the Council of Ministers only through you or the representative you designate." You may not have had this letter at your disposal, but it wasn't us, and for who knows which time I'm talking, so stubborn that we won't accept all your suggestions and comments if they're going in the progressive direction, which I don't doubt is our common goal.
ParlaMint-BA_2010-02-03-0.u32319	Thank you. 49 No more reported. I'm closing the debate. Moving to point four, Ad. 4. Proposal for a Law on the Protection of New Plant Varieties in Bosnia and Herzegovina – Proposer: Council of Ministers of BiH (second reading) At the 69th session of the House, held on 12.1., the Law was adopted in the first reading. The competent Commission for Foreign Trade and Customs submitted the report in 27.1.2010 and adopted the text of the Law. I'm opening a debate on the draft law in the second reading. There are no reports. I'm closing the debate. We're going to the fifth point, Ad. 5. Proposal for a Law on Amendments and Supplements to the Customs Tariff Act of Bosnia and Herzegovina – Proposer of the Council of Ministers of BiH (second reading)
ParlaMint-BA_2010-02-03-0.u32322	The Honorable Chairman. Here's a chance to say that this law is the best indicator we should be dealing with, that these difficult questions, of course, will come to the agenda, we can't delay them, but this law, by my assessment and assessment of the members of the Commission, is one of the best laws, I won't say in the last 10 years, but, here, two years as it was in the procedure, or three, was he before. So, what's going on? This law will help ours, not to say failure, but to a fallen economy, well, here, and agriculture, to stand on our feet and produce what we can sell. We can't produce chips or televisions or satellites, but we can produce what just solved this law. And I want here, without any false modesty or any advocacy, to say and to commend both the Resoring Minister and the Resolute Ministry, including the Council of Ministers of BiH, the only thing I'm going to say now is that we should have brought it before, but it's never too late and this is a good opportunity to show, not a good will, but a determination to help those people out of what, not they live, but what we all live on. 50 This proposal for a law has received support from the Commission. Of course, I hope not, but I expect 100% of it to be supported by this House of Representatives and set out in its realization. He covered it, not one heading number two or three, so let's argue if someone, not to say it again, I'll start laughing and later cry over various associations to some other tariff numbers, but, here, there's no such tariff numbers that at least anyone else associates with something. Here the truth is naked, the facts, the evidence, that this law solves many problems of our economy, domestic economies, farmers and all structures in that chain. So I want to publicly say here, once again, in this whole chain and to express my gratitude, because here little do we, when we praise ourselves, are the members of our Foreign Trade and Customs Commission who understood this, who insisted on this coming, who, along with the Resord Ministry, worked on this and, behold, I will say patheticly, thank Bog that we got one of these normal laws from which we live. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-BA_2010-02-03-0.u32323	Thank you. I don't have any more logs. Moving to point six, Ad. Six. Proposal for a Law on Amendments and Supplements to the Law on Direct Foreign Investment Policy in Bosnia and Herzegovina – Proposer: Council of Ministers of BiH (second reading); At the 69th session, held in 12.1.2010, the Law was adopted in the first reading. The competent Commission for Foreign Trade and Customs submitted its report 1.2 with a single amendment. I note that SNSD MPs have tabled one amendment, which has been declared untimely due to a two-hour delay. I'm opening a debate on the draft law in the second reading. Dear Ambassador Velimir Jukić. Here you go.
ParlaMint-BA_2010-02-03-0.u32325	Well, here, I'll just, actually, take advantage of this occasion so a little bit of getting to know all of us with what I know. So, first of all, I think it's good and we're going to adopt this law today and some of its solutions are really about improving the solution from now on, and I expect it to give positive effects, because we really need positive effects. If we keep in mind the fact that foreign investment in our country has been constantly falling, for 2008, over a billion marks, in the past year, there are no complete data yet, but it is said that this amount has been halved, some indications for this year, of which it has already been over a month, are also not too optimistic, which we certainly need to be concerned, especially having in this fact that we are living in a time of recession and I would say and a stable economic crisis which in BiH has been manifested to, as we see, a very drastic way, that every day is increasingly unemployed, that it is increasingly unsatisfactory, that the situation is difficult, that a significant number of our citizens are living on the edge, and also 51 significant numbers below one poverty line taken as a standard for calculating poverty in the world. Of course, it's a great chance to at least partially solve this ungrateful, difficult situation, and to increase foreign investment, especially those of the direct or so-called. Greenfield, so the question is, are we doing everything we can with this law? We are certainly taking one step, but I will say not enough, and when I say not enough then I think of the very concrete existence of the reserved funds that have been in existence for a year, some year and a half and have not been used and that the Council of Ministers of BiH and other institutions in this country really need to do everything to make sure that these funds, which we are on and on which we are paying, unfortunately, and interest and foam, therefore on the reservation of these funds, so that they are implemented as soon as possible in order to give that positive effect, not only through investments, but also through that turnover coefficient. So, then, you can count on their full effect. Just two sentences on solutions. We see here that some solutions are quite logical and very pragmatic. Therefore, in Article 3, unless it responds positively or in no way responds to a request within 30 days, it is considered that such investment is also approved and that the improvements in Article 5 which are much better than the existing solutions. I expect this law will make one significant contribution and will make it easier to attract foreign investment with an emphasis that we do not do enough on this... part that is also mentioned here and is partly treated as having to do more to promote what we offer foreign investors, our benefits, that they recognize it as their chances and opportunity to earn here, and, of course, it will be good that we can also benefit from it. So, our support on behalf of the club to this law. I expect us to adopt him, and as soon as we can, we'll implement everything that's written here.
ParlaMint-BA_2010-02-03-0.u32326	Thank you. Dear Ambassador Slavko Jovičić. Here you go.
ParlaMint-BA_2010-02-03-0.u32327	So here's another, Mr. Chairman, law from the economic sphere I was really optimistic about, I don't know what business opportunities are, I'm not expressing and there's no speech on the replica of Mr. Honorable Jukić, but I don't think this law will get support from SNSD MPs for the simple reason that we had a controversial amendment on the Commission that solves many dilemmas, which is about the percentage of foreign investors. A particularly respected colleague..., legitimately right, and, of course, I went all the way to support it, that everyone puts out their position, which is understandable, but a foreign investor will a little decide to buy a firm or anyone if he is not a majority owner. We've expressed this concern that someone will buy our country, so, well, somebody else will rule. So, you shouldn't have done that. I won't be optimistic as a colleague of Jukić. I'm sorry that this law, I say, won't get support today for the simple reason that we just stopped by that one amendment, although the previous resolution ministry has collected all consent, entity, one government and the other government, courts and everyone in the chain, the chambers of commerce, no matter what they consult, and we had it on the table. 52 When these two amendments appeared, of course, the first one, I understand the distinguished colleague Mehmedović why he insisted, so that we should hold off the session for the first time, so that only because of this amendment we can schedule the second one, we did it all. I don't know what business procedure is, and honestly I wouldn't want this law to fall, so what do we do to leave extra time to try to find a chance because it's important. First thing we've simplified the registration procedure, no more going to the ministry, going to court, the court registers, there's going to be software, everyone's going to be tied up. I beg you, is there any possibility that you could give an extra time to try to make sure the law doesn't fall? He's very important to us. It's very important, and I'm in favour of this very economic sphere that at least now we're doing it when we've been waiting for two three years, it didn't work out, it's going now, and I'm asking you to see it, consider what it is for us to do so that the law doesn't fall. But if he stays in this form he'll fall, unfortunately, which I don't want, I repeat. Because of that one amendment, I think, where we could agree to find a compromise solution in that people's, that all the wolves are full and the sheep are numbered, that we are satisfied, and that foreign investors and that this country is benefiting from it. Now, we have the law, here, we've all praised it, and I've talked a lot about it in my first reading, but he can't get support today. And even if he passed the House of Representatives, don't let the House of Nations bring him down. I don't even like to have someone solve it when we can solve it. Let's find some possibility, so whatever it is. _________(?) Do you have a suggestion? I know I can't pull it today, and I don't have the right or authority, but if there's anything else, an extra time, to give us something, to do more. Well, it's better to lose a month than wait six months so we don't adopt it. Believe me, I'm so interested in that so they can say, "Here, this slavuj doesn't talk about politics anymore, here's the economy, it's good for everyone." I'm so interested, believe me, I'm honest with you.
ParlaMint-BA_2010-02-03-0.u32329	Too bad there's no Lazar today.
ParlaMint-BA_2010-02-03-0.u32330	Wait a minute, wait a minute.
ParlaMint-BA_2010-02-03-0.u32331	No, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, Lazar, no, no. No, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no,
ParlaMint-BA_2010-02-03-0.u32332	All right, all right. Are you done?
ParlaMint-BA_2010-02-03-0.u32333	I did, but here I am, waiting for you to be happy or standing. 53
ParlaMint-BA_2010-02-03-0.u32334	You'll get the answer, take it easy. Dear Ambassador Šemsudin Mehmedović, replica. Here you go.
ParlaMint-BA_2010-02-03-0.u32335	Gentlemen chairman, ladies and gentlemen of the council. My replica refers to Mr. Jovičić's exposure in the sense that he was some controversial amendment. I don't know what he's controversial about. The amendment adopted by the Commission consists of the following: to delete the amendment provision and to supplement the Law on Foreign Direct Investments, which allows the foreign investor to own more than 49% of public broadcasters and the dedicated industry. I don't think that can be considered, at least not at this point. When it happens, in a year, two, five, we'll see. But, here, if you want us to paintly show that, let's say, Croatia's TV or anyone in Croatia is the majority owner of Federal Television or, God Bog, of Republika Srpska's RTV, I don't think it would be good because it will promote some other values rather than the values that are for this land of BiH. And, of course, it wouldn't be good for the majority owner to be a foreign investor in the dedicated industry so we don't get any Joce Amsterdami, etc. And that our dedicated industry, which, here, we can raise with stronger support from the budget, take on one very, very, so to speak, questionable way, I don't think it would be good, at least we shouldn't now. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-BA_2010-02-03-0.u32336	Thank you. Dear Ambassador Velimir Jukić, replica. Here you go.
ParlaMint-BA_2010-02-03-0.u32337	More, actually, one question or an explanation. I don't know if it's necessary and necessary, given this fact that Mr. Jovičić announced, which I've never been familiar with before, I think this law is very important and important. There are very good and quality solutions, much better than those that used to be. And I really think it will help make it easier, easier foreign investment to come to BiH, more tempting to them, etc. And we should make such an ambience. This law contributes to the significant improvement of this environment and the attractiveness of foreign capital. As far as the content of this amendment is concerned, what Mr. Šemsudin Mehmedović has now explained, well, be careful, it is not necessary to regulate this law. Why? What you said, and so it's state property. And the owner, therefore, will determine what and to what extent, in what percentage, they will sell to whom, on what terms or to what extent, 1%, 2%, 5%, 10%, etc. So I don't think this amendment is essential, and it's much more important that this law, I'm looking at it like it's proposed, in that whole, and it's going to have, I'm sure, good effects. If we don't adopt it, I'm afraid this trend that exists for the last two years, this year's forecast to continue this trend, it's devastating for all of us, for the BiH economy, to see foreign investments fall significantly from year to year. It is an alarm, I think, for all of us, for the Council of Ministers of BiH, and especially for this BiH Parliament. We are responsible, we regulate this area, no one is to blame for us sitting here and some who are not here, I mean the Council of Ministers of BiH. 54
ParlaMint-BA_2010-02-03-0.u32338	Chairman Živković, replica.
ParlaMint-BA_2010-02-03-0.u32339	Is there any need to you first? Minister Mladen Zirojević asked for it. Here you go.
ParlaMint-BA_2010-02-03-0.u32340	I'm sorry, go ahead, I didn't see it, go ahead.
ParlaMint-BA_2010-02-03-0.u32341	The Honorable Chairman, the Honorable Presidency, honourable MPs. Here's a brief comment about this law, the short bill, about it is less and less everything has been said for a long time. I'm very often in a position to contact potential investors, embassy representatives, ambassadors, here, tomorrow I have three right at my office, and of course there's always an inevitable investment theme and an ambience in which potential investors want to invest. I always say with full right that we have very modern and flexible laws that define the area of foreign investment and this law that is now in force is good, but here is your assessment that it can be improved and this is our attempt to do so. This resulted, among other things, in these regulations, that we have so far registered over 7 billion KM foreign investments. What's best in this bill of law is precisely this controversial provision, I would call it. I recently had, and I said so at the House of Peoples, when, unanimously in the first reading, this law was passed, supported, a meeting with a group of businessmen from Germany who were going to buy one of our dedicated industry companies from Gorazd. It was for sale, the price of good, all satisfied, but the condition was that another company that could only be bought at 49%, precisely because of this restrictive provision, was made available to them at 51%. For nothing, my belief that we have a contract to improve the protection of investment, for nothing else, they were skeptics and they weren't, I don't know, I don't know what the fate of that transaction was, but I think that very restrictive provision resulted in neither of the two mentioned factories being bought. I think, after all, no one will argue that the initiative for this provision, to make this provision, has come from the entity government this way by amending the law. From the government of the entity, both of them. True, long ago, but it came from the entity government. And I don't know what the issue is if we have there in Article 3, it seems to me, the proposed provision that the entity governments decide when and who they approve that they can buy a certain economic entity at a percentage of 51%. If the government is an entity that will allow guys like that, whom you mentioned, Mr. Mehmedović, suspicious pasts buy it, then really fat things don't work out. Let's support this law. It's hard to attract foreign investors at this time of financial crisis and recession. Here, we have a report from the Foreign Investment Promotion Agency that a drop in foreign investment has been seen. This is a concrete contribution to repairing the situation in that segment. That's it, thank you. 55
ParlaMint-BA_2010-02-03-0.u32342	Thank you. Let's take the line of the line. Dear Ambassador Slavko Jovičić. Here you go.
ParlaMint-BA_2010-02-03-0.u32343	So the replica of Mr. Mehmedović's presentation in one part alone. Of course, he expressed his concern that the dedicated industry would now buy everyone, where luck would buy them so that 90% would be the owners and give so much money, by some logic, give us money, people, this is certainly a failure, because they don't buy a healthy factory, but, well. So on the commission, the result was 3:2 vote. What do I mean, 3:2? We didn't need that one vote to challenge someone or to conflict. We were trying to find a compromise, I said in that first presentation, that because of this amendment we just scheduled a session, it's rare to hold a commission, but here, we succeeded. I'm pleading today, so, here, if I have to, I won't say please because I don't have to beg anyone, but I'm looking for a chance to get through this. The second thing, around public broadcasters, Mr. Mehmedović said, God Bog they buy TV from the RS, here, I'll say, God forbid they buy Federation television, that it's a little counterproductive, although I may not have the best opinion about them, but there's no Bog here, here we are. What we have Bog to draw in, Bog forgive me, here, I say and so on. I wish they bought what they needed and ours fell apart. No one's gonna sell TV to the RS, you don't have to. And another thing, I can get rid of other laws. Here Mr. Minister said well, not to defend him, it would always be, the government has given each other consent and they will determine which one will be the percentage. If they say a foreign investor can buy a company and own 30% of the property, where good luck. But if they say it's profitable for a foreign investor to own 63%, let that company go. So the entity governments were left behind, I'll say, the autonomous right to negotiate with investors. So what kind of entity government is going to do that against their own entity? Here, let me ask that logical question. Here, if it's the federal government's interest, and there's the most talk, that it's working against people living in the Federation of BiH, then that government doesn't need anyone, or the RS. If he were working against the citizens, so there's someone, there's a sale, which they would say, just because they're looking for that number, that percentage. This amendment has challenged the whole law, which is why I'm trying to find people, some possibility, because it's all other areas, which is much more important, for other members, solves a lot of things, and where we're lucky to attract foreign investors with this law. That's why I said, of course, that I'll stay at it, that they won't get support because of this amendment. But isn't it realistic, think about it all, let's think about it, if the autonomous right of the Federation of BiH government is left to say that it's a deal, we don't agree, what this law will challenge if this amendment and the opinion of the commission that is like this is. But don't ask this again, don't let our law fail because it's a little thing. The federal government, I repeat, it's logical, the government of the RS, so they won't work against themselves, because they'll fall, they'll get shot down.
ParlaMint-BA_2010-02-03-0.u32344	Thank you. Replica, honourable MP Šemsudin Mehmedović. Here you go. 56
ParlaMint-BA_2010-02-03-0.u32345	Look, I've made two amendments, Mr. Bajazit Jašarević one. Bajazit Jašarević and I gave up one amendment each. I gave up on the second amendment that touched right into the heart of the law, that is, Article 4, or Article 5 of the basic law. And in the explanation of Assistant Minister of Foreign Trade and Economic Relations Mr. Dragiša, it is said not to touch only Article 4 that is the heart of the law, because this law is actually one of the laws that are in this process of making a more favourable environment for attraction, i.e., guillotine rules as it is said to us, and, behold, we have given up two amendments, but it is impossible to give up on this amendment for the reason that I have quoted ahead. And Mr. Dragiša explained that this was actually added to the law, and he doesn't know why either because no one asked for this member to be inserted, except, of course, four or five years ago when they were looking for entity governments. I don't know why that's happening right now. If someone has an honest intention to invest and invest in BiH, he can do it within a circle of the existing firm, here, which has failed, to build a joint venturer company and do the same job and not to say, 70% owner. Therefore, these are not the reasons stated by the minister and, of course, however Parliament declares itself, but at this point I think it is better not to allow a foreign investor to be a majority owner, especially in public broadcasters, and, of course, also in the dedicated industry.
ParlaMint-BA_2010-02-03-0.u32346	Thank you. Dear Ambassador Salko Sokolović, replica. Here you go.
ParlaMint-BA_2010-02-03-0.u32347	Thank you, Mr. Chairman. Well, look, we've been on the committee for a long time...
ParlaMint-BA_2010-02-03-0.u32348	Wait a minute, please, a little patience, a little patience.
ParlaMint-BA_2010-02-03-0.u32349	...we've been on the committee for a long time discussing this subject, here, and canceling the plea. The meeting was the next day, and we brought this attitude as presented by the commission. I mean, I'm saying this for the simple reason that we've gotten into this problem and I think we've made certain analyses for and against, and, here, the attitude is what it is. Please, here, when we get back to life, we go back to our family and we have a winter period and the man doesn't have the money, so he'll decide to sell the cow, sell the sheep, sell the car, sell anything else to survive that winter, just won't sell the wood in front of the house, because he won't be able to go through that winter differently, people said. What do I mean? So he determined what was strategic at that point interesting to survive the winter. 57 I think the time has come for some aspects to be defined in BiH that we know what is strategic at this point, let's say, a resource or a product that will continue to be used, let's say, and economic development and employees, and also have some control. So, we never talked about the energy sector, we didn't talk about any natural resources in BiH, so that we can then access the realization of such a legal solution. Now that a foreign investor enters, when it comes to the dedicated industry, over 49%, I don't think it's good, that it should, through one long analysis, be discussed in another environment. But here I use the opportunity and presence of the minister, let's help the dedicated industry in BiH in a different way, as a state, to get it on its feet. Because if I give myself the right to know this problem, maybe a little more than some, we have in the product range in the dedicated industry a kind of bullet that isn't produced anywhere in the world, everyone comes here. We've got one Igman and other dedicated industry factories that are brand in the world. I don't think we have the right to just sit down so easily, raise your hand and hand this over to someone else. Here's just a few reasons for the extra thought of those who haven't thought about this a little bit. Thank you, Chairman.
ParlaMint-BA_2010-02-03-0.u32350	Thank you. Replica, Ambassador Mehmed Suljkanović. Here you go.
ParlaMint-BA_2010-02-03-0.u32351	Dear Chairman, esteemed colleagues and colleagues. I really cannot understand, in addition to everything that has been positively said about the proposed law, that one position has been taken that this law, which our ministry has drawn up, has simply come into parliamentary procedure under the procedure "take or leave". Turns out no comma can change. I do not see, indeed, that this amendment, which limits itself to 49% of participation, in a limited number of entities, related to the purpose of production and public broadcasters, and in this case this replica would be addressed to my esteemed colleague Jovičić, who, instead of asking the College to help in this part, I think that he, too, could contribute to the adoption of this law today with this amendment, because what will positively be obtained by this law far exceeds any harm that would result in the adoption of the law with the proposed amendment. And I'd really like to ask my colleague Jovičić not to threaten us with the House of Peoples. Here, instead of the House of Nations, you could use Dušanka as well, because he just Dušanka us with Dušanko.
ParlaMint-BA_2010-02-03-0.u32352	The next is the Honorable Chairman, Dr. Milorad Živković.
ParlaMint-BA_2010-02-03-0.u32353	Thank you. Namely, I want here to clear things up and do it all the way. We haven't had a more complete legal document here in the BiH Parliament in a long time. A document that got all the consent possible and went through all the procedures that the legal project could go through. Another thing is that some have given up their original opinion and initiative and that is to be said. That the government of the Federation of BiH 58 has given up the initiative it has written to the ministry that it does not want to go that way, and it is said, literally, that a member who treats the relationship 49%-51% and gives the government of the Federation of BiH and the government of the RS the possibility that, if there is an interest, that percentage will change. And here it needs to be said out loud and clear. And it's okay for someone to change their mind. It should be argued why an opinion has been changed, why this is not and written by the government of the Federation of BiH and said the government of the Federation of BiH has since sent the initiative to change its opinion so far. Especially when we receive letters daily from various companies interested in investing in BiH, a company from the Netherlands, Canada, not to name it, it is interested to co-operate with the dedicated industry in BiH and listed the factories "Igman" d.d. Konjic, ‘UNIS- PRETIS’ branch and artillery ammunition factory Vogosća, ‘UNIS-BINAS’ d.o.o. The factory of the Bugojno grenade, "UNIS-GINEKS" Gorazde, "BNT" The factory of the artillery tools Novi Travnik, as you can see, everything from the Federation of BiH. And after that, there's no interest in going in changing and supplementing the law in this direction. And that's okay to say here. I ask the question, is there any chance of compromise? As far as I can tell, she was mostly concerned that public service, media, could come under this. Can we separate these two things and go to the possibility that, as you can see, there is great interest in determining in this part, separate the military industry, and leave the media service on the other side. Here, it's a compromise we can talk about. If there's room to discuss this compromise, let's put in charge of our ministry that, in cooperation with our commission, try to find... and we can make business amendments, which are about new aspects, to adopt and propose here and get out of this problem. That's the way we can work and look for a compromise. Thank you. Oh, my God.
ParlaMint-BA_2010-02-03-0.u32354	No microphone turned on
ParlaMint-BA_2010-02-03-0.u32355	You don't have any more? You do. Wait, you might need more.
ParlaMint-BA_2010-02-03-0.u32356	No, I don't think so. This Dušanka thing, if I forget, I'm done.
ParlaMint-BA_2010-02-03-0.u32357	Dear Ambassador Slavko Jovičić, second replica. Here you go.
ParlaMint-BA_2010-02-03-0.u32358	You're all here to witness that I'm a man who's not a fighting type. Whoever can't come with me can really see, let him question himself a little. I really respect all my colleagues, respected Professor Suljkanović. I didn't threaten the House of Peoples, but taught by experience, and you know it, I just wanted to remind you that we've passed a lot of laws here and we've fallen there. I don't want this law to fall. And to me, everything may have come to mind at that moment, but the distinguished Mrs. Dušanka Majkić doesn't come to mind for 59 two reasons. First of all, I don't want to fight with anyone. And here's private, which you'll never say, I've lived in a happy marriage for 33 years, and I'm going to fight with my husband, and I'm not going to fight with her. I'm not going with anyone, not her. So, I didn't think of it, dear Professor Suljkanović, I want to have a good relationship with everyone and I have no reason to argue with the distinguished Mrs. Majkić. First of all, we're not in the same homes. Maybe you'd argue there if I were with her. And let me finish. Find, gentlemen, a compromise to pass this law is very important. And, then, you should not be in your mind the Slavuj, the Dušanka, the Šemsudin Mehemdović, or Suljkanović, and I will say everything, these gentlemen, so that it does not go forward, therefore, to adopt this law. There are solutions and options, I really repeat, if the federal government is left with the possibility of negotiating percentages, but I'm afraid it's not another percentage here constantly on someone's mind, because everyone fears those percentages, 49% of RS, 51% of the Federation of BiH. And it's what we're looking for here now, and I don't like it when there's a company, which brings us together to something, but here it can be a percentage of 96%, and it can be a percentage of 20%, if whoever buys the company says that I have so much money. So, the matter of a personal contract. And whoever didn't get into this law, at least today it's clear to him. Let's leave the possibility that the federal government, the RS government, is agreeing with potential buyers as much as it will give them a percentage. Whatever they agree, they will succeed. If they can sell the company, I'll applaud them, they haven't succeeded, they're guilty and responsible, and what's there, people, the problem. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-BA_2010-02-03-0.u32359	Thank you. Dear Ambassador Slavko Matić, discussion. Here you go.
ParlaMint-BA_2010-02-03-0.u32360	Thank you, Mr. President. Dear colleagues and fellow MPs, honored guests. I have applied for the debate even though most of what I am about to say can also be viewed as a replica of what has been said in this debate so far. As I see it, the fundamental intensities of this law that we are talking about are, above all, enabling, facilitating and attracting new direct foreign investment. When I say new ones, I look at them as foreign investors' investments that will bring their capital and invest it, not to say, on the ice. And the whole series of disputes and debates are being led into privatising the remaining state property and the remaining state-owned enterprises. In addition, the law itself and the original text of the law and these amendments and additions speak about the policy of direct investment, about politics, and we are intruding into completely operational concrete things that I personally hold to regulate at entity level, since privatisation of state property and taking place at entity level, whether I or someone else is glad or wrong, but that is so. Whether these laws on the privatisation of state assets at entity level need to establish relations as far as a foreign investor can buy state assets or not, I think it is quite enough to decide on that state level of government which manages state capital in a specific enterprise and which, when tendering or other ways of privatisation, will determine exactly how much of this will be given in privatisation. It would be a great shame if the law that needs to be facilitated, to enable new foreign investment, to direct foreign investment, today to fall, because we mixed the privatisation of the remaining state property with this part which, not that it doesn't matter, but still it's not an intensity, at least it's not the fundamental intensity of this law. If we can't get out of this dispute today, the biggest damage would be to bring down 60 laws. If the way of the solution is to simplify it with a conclusion it is much better than to dispute now, whether, this amendment, is something that will bring down the law, whether the SNSD amendment is late and is not acceptable, then it is best to offer a conclusion and to pass and give to our competent commission to try again a common solution that would be acceptable to the majority that is sufficient to adopt this law in the BiH Parliament. Thank you.
ParlaMint-BA_2010-02-03-0.u32361	Thank you. Minister Zirojević. Here you go.
ParlaMint-BA_2010-02-03-0.u32362	Well, here, just a few more words about this law. I repeat again, it is becoming more difficult, both because of the financial crisis and because of some of our difficulties, to convince anyone that BiH is a favourable investment environment. This law is what we do. I repeat, too, that the entity governments four or five years ago, you said, were looking for this, both government and government. What's been waiting so long? How do I know? You've known since I've been doing this duty. What was the tobacco law waiting for, waiting for small and medium-sized enterprises and many other legal projects that are now coming and coming? Don't ask me that. Let's also think about the possibility that the chairman mentioned, let's just not drop this law. It's used by this law, there's a lot of people interested in this industry and don't let us close their doors. That's what, I don't know, I mean, I really didn't expect there to be such a dispute because at all stages, and in the Council of Ministers of BiH, everyone welcomed this law. And on the House of Nations with one accord, beware, in the first reading.
ParlaMint-BA_2010-02-03-0.u32363	Thank you. No more reports. I'm closing the debate. Moving to point seven, Ad. Seven. Proposal for a Law on Amendments and Supplements to the Law on Bosnia and Herzegovina's Public Television System – Proposer: Council of Ministers of BiH (second reading); I suggest that, together with the Law, at point 8. – The Law on Public Radio Television Service of BiH is considered a joint debate. 61 Ad. 8. Proposal for a Law on Amendments and Supplements to the Law on the Public Television Service of Bosnia and Herzegovina – Proposer: Council of Ministers of BiH (second reading);
ParlaMint-BA_2010-02-03-0.u32368	Mr. President, distinguished MPs and MPs. Here, you have a really extensive legal document, that is, a proposal for a law on bond relations. I am absolutely certain that, at least in this term, you did not have a more extensive 62 laws, and I believe so far in the parliamentary procedure, at least in post-war BiH. It's not just that the law is based on its content, I really think this is one of the most important laws, at least when it comes to the resistor that I'm headed for. This law regulates very important relations in our society, free movement of goods, people, capital throughout BiH. In addition, you know that, according to the Action Plan for the Implementation of Priorities from the European Partnership document with BiH, the adoption of the Law on Mandatory Relations is a priority. So far, there are two laws in BiH that apply at entity level, therefore, in the Federation of BiH and in the RS. These are laws that have been taken over from our former country of SFRY, but they differ greatly. The difference is more than 20 articles. Here I'll just mention that the limitation period is 100% different, in RS that deadline is 10 years, in the Federation he's 5 years. So it's about laws that really aren't identical. This law was done with the help of experts, but also with technical assistance, mostly by the German government's GTC, which has provided all technical, but I repeat, expert assistance. Experts from USAID, UNDP, and our professors of Obligation Law, from Sarajevo and Banja Luka, also participated in the draft law. When this law was drawn up, the old law, the SFRY law, was used, it was passed in '78. A year. Then for the first time in the space of the former Yugoslavia, we had this matter codified in one legal text. So now everything is respected in this law, that is, all those solutions that were appreciated to have been good, are contained in this law as well. And here, I would like to point out that this law was passed in '78. The year, which was made for 25 years, respected most of the law that was in force in Switzerland, as one of the most modern laws in Europe at the time. And based on that Swiss law, these institutes are set up in the Bond Relations Act. However, it should also be pointed out that certain solutions were only fully worked out in this law because they had previously been left out of the text of the law as non-relationships, or at that time it was appreciated that they did not fall under bonds. First of all, it was about certain classic contracts, service contracts, gifts, life support, and certain types of liability for damages, such as liability for damage caused by construction, of animals, of falling, of throwing out of rooms, etc. Since no bonding relationship law has been adopted in BiH, we have also used those solutions that were adopted in the successor countries of the former SFRY. In the same way, the EU's rights have been incorporated into this law, so we have fully respected them and incorporated them into the text of the law, given the process of bringing BiH closer to the EU. Therefore, in this law we have followed the principles of European contract law, the principles of international trade agreements, and a number of UN conventions and their bodies relating to bonds and contracts. These are UN conventions on contracts for international sales of goods, the Vienna Convention and published positions of science, profession and court practice. So, in this law, it is really contained and retained, in fact, and so far the concept and uniquely incorporated bond relations, for both natural and legal persons, i.e. entrepreneurs and consumers. The text of this law is much more extensive than that law. This law contains 1,264 articles, i.e. 155 more than the former law has and these provisions are concentrated in basic two parts. So, the first general part and the second part that now bears the title – Individual contracts, bonds, individual contractual bonds and legal relations. And of course, at the end of the transitional and final provisions. The law is divided, so every part, this first part has six heads, the second part 36. And if you read the content, I know that it is, I repeat again, very extensive, you could notice that 63 basic principles have been developed in it, and the bond relations that arise from the contract, the cause of damage, the acquisition of baseless, the management without warrants, unilateral statements of will and other laws established facts. The second part of the law that is no longer called a specific part, but means, individual contracts, contractual bond relations, it regulates individual classical construction and business contracts, and banking transactions. In all parts of the legal text, therefore, the solutions we have appreciated were good solutions, that they have endured practical checks and that they are suitable for emerging socio-economic opportunities in BiH. Despite the time of creation and subsequent minor changes and additions that have completely freed the ideological political content, the proposal for this law has adopted several new institutes that have not existed so far in the Law on Liabilities and several provisions amending or supplementing existing legal solutions. As new legal institutes, only, here, illustrations work, for the first time in the law are regulated issues of delivery of unordered acts, then orders by electronic means, provoking in consumer contracts, liability for advertising, then, behold, I mentioned earlier, a gift contract, a service contract, a partner contract, a life support contract, banking contracts and establishing contracts. All variations of the gift contract are now fully arranged in this law as a concept, subject, sale, form, and responsibility for fulfilling the contract and delay, and in particular a regulated gift with a warrant. Here, just a few more significant notes, and about this law. Some institutes and some contracts that are now in some other laws, for the simple reason that there was, at that time, the Law on Bond Relations, and now, of course, they found a place in this law. And finally, to say that significant here, so equally arranged terms of representation, general terms of formal contracts, responsibility of the manufacturer for the incorrect product, compensation of immaterial damages, sales contracts, etc., etc. And what is equally important to note is that, in addition to the public consultations we have conducted in accordance with our rules, those 30 days to deliver objections to this law, and in a special way we have called, in accordance with Article 6. This Regulation shall enter into force on the twentieth day following that of its publication in the Official Journal of the European Union. The regulations, that we had carried out further consultations, that we had received the opinion of the High Court and Prosecutor's Council, were positive, the opinion also of the Federal Justice Ministry, a positive opinion, but the opinion of the RS Justice Ministry, which they delivered to us on 28.5.2009, did not come out because they said no decision on the transfer of jurisdiction was made. For the sake of correctness, I must point that out. And once again, in the end, I remind you that, indeed, it is our obligation, given the European partnership, to adopt this law at BiH level. Thank you.
ParlaMint-BA_2010-02-03-0.u32369	I thank the minister. I have a warning that right now in the O.R., we don't have a quorum to work and decide. Apparently, the MPs got tired and went out for lunch individually. We now have two options – to give a little break to wait for the quorum to be made or to take a half hour break for everyone to finish the job. 64 [[Common discussion]] I'm afraid the discussion will open other aspects. Is the break until 3:30 acceptable to everyone? [[Common discussion]]
ParlaMint-BA_2010-02-03-0.u32373	Mr. Chairman, colleagues and colleagues. The law on bond relations in each country is one of the key laws and how important this issue is is the fact that, let's say, neither the former SFRY state until '78. She didn't have this law for years. What we have on the agenda today is a modern qualification of the bonds right of reputation for the Swiss qualification, i.e., Yugoslav qualification. All the countries of the former Yugoslavia have accepted this, and I have stood up to welcome the fact that we finally have this law here in the parliamentary procedure, to welcome the fact that this proposal has included some solutions that have never been in the Bond Relations Act and have never been arranged since '78. the year passed by the Bond Act. So now he's one hell of a lot more violent solution than that solution that we have now in place, and in force is, too, this law, the law of '78. In both entity and entity, the difference is in some 20 members. The key difference is in limitations. This law finally introduces order. As for the constitutional basis, the constitutional basis, if for anything there is a constitutional basis, exists for this law, because in BiH, according to the explicit provision of the Constitution, and this is actually one of the greatest values of the Dayton Peace Agreement and the BiH Constitution, there is freedom of movement of goods, people and capital. Without freedom of movement, i.e. without this law, there is no orderly freedom of movement of people, goods and capital in BiH, and this is a key fact for a constitutional basis. The constitutional basis should not be sought in the responsibilities described when it comes to institutions only, but should also be sought in the provisions of the Constitution that speak of principles, and one of the key principles for the establishment and signing of the Dayton Peace Agreement is this constitutional provision that says BiH's internal structure is what it is, but that there is a complete freedom of movement in BiH of both goods and people and capital. As regards, therefore, the constitutional basis, it exists, and as a matter of principle, these are the principles of which the minister also spoke in his opening statement, in fact, principles which are covered by the Yugoslav qualification of '78. A year. That is why I believe that all the conditions for the adoption of this law have been met and I suggest that it be adopted in the first reading. 65 And finally, I would be incorrect if I didn't say this, too, that the Ministry of Justice, headed by Mr. Čolak, had made a good proposal and that this proposal had been processed in the manner that laws should be processed and delivered to parliamentary procedure. This law also contains provisions concerning reasons. From the proposal, i.e., it is clearly evident from the reasons that these are new institutes, what is the fundamental set-up of the law, which are built-up institutes, even talks about some details, and I think that this is how we should do the reasoning of the law. Tomorrow, when it comes to the controversial application of an institute in practice, it will come to the library or archives here of Parliament, when the rule of authentic interpretation will be seen what the legislator meant more than what was written in the norm itself, and that is stated in the explanation. This law fits very well with these requirements. I want to encourage the minister to deliver as many processed laws as possible in the parliamentary procedure. That's it, thank you.
ParlaMint-BA_2010-02-03-0.u32374	Let's move on, Ekrem Ajanović.
ParlaMint-BA_2010-02-03-0.u32375	Mr. Chairman, colleagues and colleagues. I first want to thank the Ministry of Justice, headed by the minister, for sending such an important law to the procedure and writing it this well. There are no representatives of the constituent peoples, nor of others, who, at least once in their lives, will not need this law for his life, because actually this Law of Liabilities is a life process that takes place in a man from birth, so, as it is said, to the death. I am pleased that this law has come because our constitutional obligation to pass the Law on bond relations at the level of the state and those who say that there is no, that there is a need for transfer of jurisdiction, that is a nakarad interpretation of the Constitution and they are wrong. The law is also good because it's written in quality. It had to be passed this law for another reason, because we have in two entities the laws of the SFRY that have been taken over in different texts in courts, on one side of the line and on the other side of the line, when certain doubts arise about bonding relations, then, Bog gives me, the one who judges on one entity, and the other entity or vice versa, sometimes there are problems which are not unique law and uniformly regulated, is not fully harmonised and not applied in the same way. And I felt it myself recently in Doboj when I was in court, not personally, but it made me (only one good law on bond relations), because I can't say that it wasn't a good law on bond relations that was passed and that was taken over by SFRY, because at the time when one of the better laws was passed even in Europe, but time did its part and many things in it weren't regulated or regulated by half, so what the judicial conviction says is how you break it. One court makes a decision for you, decides in your favor by one member, and the other by the same member in the appeal proceedings makes a decision against you. This is, therefore, not a full harmonisation of the law and can be reflected in certain ways of life or life, or, if you want to say, judicial decisions. This is an explanation for the adoption of this law, given by Mr. Minister, I fully agree. The law brings in a lot of newspapers. New legal institutes have been done that have not existed so far, and I would not list them because the minister already said that in his presentation and that's a good thing. It's a good thing, because a lot of things haven't been arranged, and now we're doing this bill 66 and we're getting quality. On the other hand, I have to say, too, that changes have been made, which is also said by the Minister, the completed legal institutes and I wouldn't list them, but I would say here one solution that I particularly like or, let's say, two. This law regulated the futility of a contract that is contrary to forced regulations or good practices, which is very significant, because at a certain point that regulation can cost a particular party who at a certain point sign a contract that is contrary to certain bonds and regulated in the state. This has not been done in so far's law, and I think it's a good thing that's coming up now. I point out here that the law specifically regulates the solution of interest rates, which I particularly like, where, on the one hand, the liberalisation of interest rates has been carried out, but also on the other... so that the one who gives the money did not hinder interest, but, on the other hand, the one who takes the money is, in some way, protected because the ban on the billing of interest on interest in this law is explicitly said, which is very important because this is why we oppose, in fact, certain interest-bearing business that is being resorted to in banks. I am sorry that this law does not fully cover civil and commercial contracts, although in part, what the minister said, partially process it, but not entirely, because as they put it in their settlement, they did not want to go into revolutionary, so they just emphasized in their reasoning of the Law, but they left it to regulate, under quotes, a new treaty, to regulate themselves by special legislation. I do not know in further procedure whether we will be able to do anything about it, but in all of this, I can conclude that this law is necessary for our country, not only are we approaching the EU and that it is one of the EU's conditions to pass it, but this law needs all of us living in BiH. On the other hand, the Law is very modern and, on the third hand, the Law is precisely written, (that many of the doubts that arise under the laws, which are now valid, on bond relations in both entities, occur sometimes in court) and this will certainly, the quality of the trial, the quality of the relations that this law processes, improve. Thank you very much. I support this law anyway.
ParlaMint-BA_2010-02-03-0.u32376	Thank you. Dear Ambassador Velimir Jukić. Here you go.
ParlaMint-BA_2010-02-03-0.u32377	Mr. Chairman, esteemed colleagues and colleagues, members of the BiH Council of Ministers and guests. Here, first of all, let me express my opinion of this law. So, this law has been done in one way, I would say, a very correct and professional way and can indeed serve as an overview of how laws and legal projects should look at the stage when they come before the BiH Parliament. So there is also a beginning of quality, of solutions, explanations, etc., and I can only, therefore, express the words of praise both to the Minister and to the Ministry and to the Council of Ministers of BiH on such a quality law which is very extensive and so far the most extensive, at least from those which I have had the opportunity to follow and read, 1,265 articles, therefore, very extensive, but it is not unusual when we have in mind its title and what it regulates. In fact, he regulates, I would say, the ordinary, everyday life of all citizens in the space for which he is brought. 67 we know that the law of '78 is now in force. years which also, in the opinion and people who understand this much more than I do and are considered a solid solution, at that time even revolutionary and good, however, came the time, for the reasons said, to do a new law and, in some way, what was not possible at that time to include some new institutes and what seems to me also very important and important, which is on the way... to our foreign-political strategic goal, which is the approximation of the EU. This is one of the obligations, therefore, from our commitments to the European Partnership, to adopt state legislation in the area of bonds. So, this is a very clear, very clear commitment, and I expect that, with some reserves coming from the Government of the Republic of Slovenia, however, bearing in mind that this is not about establishing any new institution, and by doing so, as I understand this, nor about transferring any powers, but simply about the need for this important area to be regulated in a unique way, by uniform rules, that is, by a single law. Of course, all these jobs that are scheduled here will be done by those institutions that are still doing these jobs today. On the quality of the solution, here, I don't even want to talk, I just want to say once again that the law is comprehensive, that it is well done and that there must be a significant step forward in bringing our legislation, our legislative standards and our commitments in our partnership with the EU. And I, here, support the adoption of this law, and I think there is a need, if we adopt it in our first reading today, to hold a public debate, because this is a law that concerns a large number of people. I think the public is interested in this, and then possibly in phase two, so, in the second reading, if there is a need, it can also act as an amendment and possibly something that has been missed to add and fix in this law. Thank you.
ParlaMint-BA_2010-02-03-0.u32378	Thank you. The second vice-president, Mr. Beriz Belkić. Here you go.
ParlaMint-BA_2010-02-03-0.u32379	Of course, I also join those who have found that the adoption of this law is very important, that it is a complex law, that this is an obligation, etc., etc. I daren't even approach the debate on professional solutions, expert solutions and I am pleasantly surprised that we in the BiH Parliament have people who specialize in these things. But I answered for something else. Mr. Minister, you said in your presentation that, unfortunately, you do not have consent or support for the law of the Republic of Slovenia. That's how you formulate it. We have heard here from the discussion that there is absolutely a constitutional basis for this law and that this is the original jurisdiction of BiH. I think you would, and I see in the preamble you just called on article 4.4a. The BiH Constitution, you didn't even mention what Jaferovic was talking about, the flow of goods, capital, a unique economic space, principles, but there is no law. Please, in the introduction, you are calling for article 4.4a, nothing more. So, I think that before we conclude this debate and move on, this is a serious project, 1,300 members are at stake, we should hear from you, the Ministry of Justice, whether this is the country's jurisdiction or not? 68
ParlaMint-BA_2010-02-03-0.u32380	microphone not enabled
ParlaMint-BA_2010-02-03-0.u32381	Yes, Šefik, I'm in and I agree with you completely. It's a yes and it's fine.
ParlaMint-BA_2010-02-03-0.u32382	Thank you. Dear Ambassador Denis Bećirović. Here you go.
ParlaMint-BA_2010-02-03-0.u32383	No microphone turned on
ParlaMint-BA_2010-02-03-0.u32384	Thank you. Minister, do you have a need at the end? There isn't. I'm closing the debate.
ParlaMint-BA_2010-02-03-0.u32385	Minister, let us know.
ParlaMint-BA_2010-02-03-0.u32386	No, it's no problem, I was just asking if there was a need. If you're in need? Minister Bariša Čolak. Here you go.
ParlaMint-BA_2010-02-03-0.u32387	I thank you, Mr. President. Well, I may not have called on the article, and in that sense, I accept your criticism, but I think I have made it very clear that this is a very important law and that it allows uninterrupted and completely free movement, both a person, such goods, services and capital throughout BiH. But here, I'm going to quote Article 1, point 4. The BiH Constitution. So, in addition to what is already written in the explanation, given the provision of Article 4(4)a, here, I think that's enough. I did not say that it is explicitly rejected by the RS, but I said that we received from the RS Ministry of Justice a letter saying that the transfer of jurisdiction was not carried out so that there is no legal assumption that they are giving the court, that they are involved in the debate. So that's what I got from the Ministry of Justice of the Republic of Slovenia and I think because of the correctness that I have to say because it wouldn't be correct not to say everything we got during these consultations. Thank you very much. 69
ParlaMint-BA_2010-02-03-0.u32388	Chairman Živković.
ParlaMint-BA_2010-02-03-0.u32389	Thank you. I think it is very important to say that the working groups that have worked on this law, and at the level of the National Assembly, that is, the RS and the Federation of BiH, have prepared an identical work version of the text of the Law on Liaison, and they will offer it to parliament. Therefore, I see no reason why, when they have already agreed all the work versions, it seems now this way here in the BiH Parliament, despite the warning that people have made identical texts, that this violates the BiH Constitution. What has the Ministry of Justice offered to do with this proposal here in the BiH Parliament if a large level of consent has already been made between one entity and another regarding this law? Thank you. Dear Ambassador Šefik Džaferović, replica. Here you go.
ParlaMint-BA_2010-02-03-0.u32390	Mr. Chairman. It is not the Bosnian-Herzegovina entities but the Bosnian-Herzegovina state that regulates freedom of movement within BiH goods, people and capital. And the approach for entities to do so is something that is totally unacceptable and is contrary to the BiH Constitution. Not that it is not unconstitutional what is today in the BiH Parliament, this is fully in line with the BiH Constitution. It is unconstitutional that anyone else is doing it in BiH. So that's one thing. And secondly, if you look at BiH's commitments from the European Partnership, you will see clearly that this is the obligation of the BiH state. And it won't be enough to stand on this alone, not only that entities have nothing to look for here, cantons, municipalities, etc., and BiH won't have much to look for in the future when it comes to this area. This will be an EU-edited area. Because we won't be able to be part of the EU and this is the first step we need to go. And all those who tell you that it is possible to be at the entity level, trust me, colleague Živković, to make you a bear service and to make a mistake. This is the authority of the BiH state. One day, this will be the jurisdiction of Brussels, which we will prescribe here in BiH, to conduct in BiH. That's it, thank you.
ParlaMint-BA_2010-02-03-0.u32391	Replication response, Mr. Živković, chairman.
ParlaMint-BA_2010-02-03-0.u32392	I will not perform as my esteemed colleague and say what anyone will, and what he will not do, nor imperially in this way apply here. In this country there are laws, in this country there is a Constitution. In the event that entities, and here it is that the working group and the Federation of BiH have made the same text, 70 have passed this law, there is a way in this country that this legal project should be directed to the Constitutional Court to say what you are speaking imperially. And I've had enough of the way in which this assembly is imputed to some of the RS that they want to or don't want to talk about this. We have a memo stating what is being done and what is the stage, and let the institutions of this country say who is right. And that's how we can work here, threats and, let me say, other sources or ways are not acceptable to me. Dear Ambassador Remzija Kadrić, replica. Here you go.
ParlaMint-BA_2010-02-03-0.u32393	Thank you. The replica is to you, the chairman. Therefore, look at the content of the Law on Bond Relations and look at it, read Article 1, point 4. The BiH Constitution in which it stands – Movement of goods, services, capital and persons. Freedom of movement exists all over BiH. BiH and entities will not interfere with the full freedom of movement of persons, goods, services and capital throughout BiH. The minister made it quite clear that this is the original responsibility of BiH. And this is right, and he added the Vice-President, so the title, in the introduction of this law, should be added to this Article 1, point 4. The BiH Constitution, therefore, is the direct original jurisdiction of BiH and there are very clear things.
ParlaMint-BA_2010-02-03-0.u32394	Thank you. Dear Ambassador Šefik Džaferović. Here you go.
ParlaMint-BA_2010-02-03-0.u32395	You see, Chairman, I really have no intention of replicating you, but here, that you know well and this isn't anything, don't do this now, as you've said some elevated tone, some threat, something, I want to be completely well-intentioned, just to convey what's going on. We will get into a situation in BiH very soon, if we want to be part of the world, and we want to be in BiH, already do so by countries that are members of the EU and who want to go to the EU, which are candidates, so-called. European, in Croatian, it is said because down at the consultation where I was so spoken, a European arrest warrant or, if we want to translate it into Bosnian or Serbian, it would be a European arrest warrant, I say so... Be careful, another country when it makes a decision to arrest someone, a country that is an EU member and which is a candidate, will do so, who will not, will not be part of it. We'll be in a position very soon to have the European Prosecutor's Office, you'll see something. And Europe is trying to build institutions that will be able to manage that part of the globe effectively. We here in BiH are constantly getting something, if this will be more effective than you're talking about, here, I say agree. But I can't understand that two separate systems in one state where there must be freedom and in which it is guaranteed to be more effective than one system. That's all I'm saying, believe me, I have no intention of convincing you, you have your own attitude, but I just have to say this. That's it, thank you. 71
ParlaMint-BA_2010-02-03-0.u32396	Sure, go ahead. Mr. Živković. _________(?) [[no microphone turned on]] Has he used it yet?
ParlaMint-BA_2010-02-03-0.u32398	Well, I don't think so, but I answered the discussion once, so this is another replica, if you'll excuse me? I don't want to talk about this with my voice up either. I merely cited from the letter which the minister received and the parts that were not read, which is that working groups, at entity level, greatly agreed on the same text of the Bond Relations Act. I do not dispute the need and order of the EU to resolve this issue in BiH. The only question is how will we resolve it, and if we agree and if the Constitutional Court says this cannot be resolved by entities, we will pass a framework law at BiH level that will say that these laws... (entities in the same text). So we're talking here now about the way we can respect what the EU is asking us to do. And don't fight about it right now if we can't find agreement on that by now. Minister Bariša Čolak.
ParlaMint-BA_2010-02-03-0.u32399	Thank you, Mr. President. I really thought I'd said enough for a constitutional foundation or constitutional basis and had questioned it, so would I offer this law at the state level? Secondly, I must say that this is really our commitment from the European Partnership, to adopt state legislation on bond relations. This is literally on page 72, so from word to word, of the Action Plan for the Implementation of the priorities set out in the European Partnership for BiH document. It's the EP3 KP051, you have probably a document, and it's really like that. Here, thank you very much.
ParlaMint-BA_2010-02-03-0.u32400	Thank you. No more reports. I'm closing the debate. Moving to the 11th point of the agenda, 72 Ad.11. Proposal for a Law on Copyright and Related Rights – Proposer: Council of Ministers of BiH (first reading) If you don't mind, I'd like to put the 12th item of the agenda together and bring together a debate on these two points of the agenda that are connected. Ad. 12. Proposal for a Law on collective exercise of copyright and related rights – Proposer: Council of Ministers of BiH (first reading)
ParlaMint-BA_2010-02-03-0.u32403	No microphone turned on
ParlaMint-BA_2010-02-03-0.u32404	Director, are you you, is the director's office supposed to be outside?
ParlaMint-BA_2010-02-03-0.u32405	No microphone turned on
ParlaMint-BA_2010-02-03-0.u32406	Director, go ahead. Please come out here for the stage. Director of the Institute of Intellectual Property. Please, in short lines, what you think is necessary to present to the MPs. Here you go.
ParlaMint-BA_2010-02-03-0.u32407	Thank you very much. The Honorable Chairman, respected and respected representatives of the PSBiH House of Representatives. I am truly honored to be able to present today, in the extent necessary, basically a proposal for these two laws. I would first start with the Copyright Act which is fundamental to copyright and related rights. The constitutional basis for the adoption of this law is contained in Article 4, item 4, point (a) of the Constitution of BiH under which the Parliamentary Assembly of BiH is responsible for the adoption of the laws necessary for the implementation of decisions of the BiH Presidency or for 73 functions of the Assembly provided for in the Constitution and in Article 3, paragraph 1, paragraph (a) of the Constitution which regulates that foreign policy is within the jurisdiction of the BiH institutions. The legal basis is contained in the Law on Foreign Trade Policy of BiH, where Article 30, paragraph 2. The law found that aspects of intellectual property rights related to foreign trade are within the competence of BiH institutions. Also, this article contains an interpretation of the terms of the intellectual property rights aspect relating to external trade under which the provision of adequate standards and principles relating to availability, scope and application of intellectual property rights related to external trade as well as the provision of effective and appropriate means for the implementation of intellectual property rights in accordance with the obligations under the trade agreements in which BiH is one of the parties. The following legal document laying down the powers of the Institute of Intellectual Property itself for the adoption, i.e. to prepare the rules in this area, is contained in Article 7. The Law establishing the Institute for Intellectual Property of BiH found that the Institute is responsible for performing professional and administrative tasks in the field of copyright protection and related rights. Businesses in this section are also defined, perhaps not to elaborate the whole member, but basically all jobs are in line with international conventions, contracts and agreements which have been accessed, i.e., ratified by BiH and the laws and implementing regulations governing this matter. This article also authorised the Institute of Intellectual Property to prepare bilateral, multilateral agreements, conventions, arrangements, laws and other regulations in this area. As for the Proposal for a Law on Copyright and Related Rights, I would like to stress that the Law is in line with international conventions and agreements ratified by BiH and that is basically a fundamental convention, the Bern Convention for the Protection of Literature and Art, which the Government of the Republic of BiH adopted in 1993, a Regulation on the Download and Application of International Conventions ratified by the former SFRY. It also adopted the Brussels Convention, which regulates the distribution of programmes, signals transmitted via satellites. This law is also governed by three basic conventions administered by the World Intellectual Property Organisation. It is the Roman Convention for the Protection of Artists, Artists, phonogram Producers and Broadcasting Organizations, which took effect, for BiH, on 25 May 2009. And two... contracts, it's a copyright contract and a contract for performers and phonograms that also took effect last November 25th for BiH. The harmonisation of the text of the Law has also been carried out in accordance with the documents adopted by the BiH authorities in order to meet all the conditions in the integrated processes according to the World Trade Organisation, according to the EU and the basic document of the European Partnership with BiH, which, among other things, regulates, in fact, obligations relating to the provision of effective and adequate measures, also includes a plan of activities to bring BiH legislation into line with ACQUIS, according to which it is contained in the area of copyright and related rights, that two laws will be adopted – a law governing the individual exercise of copyright and the Law on collective exercise of copyright and related rights, which, following the obligations laid down in this document, and the Institute in this direction, and prepared these two documents. It is also essential that we prepare, and I appreciate that the prepared law is in line with the directives, with eight basic directives that have been adopted since 1991, which regulate different aspects of copyright and related rights and with one directive that regulates, 74 otherwise, intellectual property rights, which is a directive on the enforcement of rights to be referred to and to other intellectual property rights which we call the common name of industrial property rights. The next document on which these two laws are based is the Interim Stabilisation and Association Agreement, which contains obligations under Article 73 of BiH in the field of intellectual, industrial and commercial property rights. What is important with regard to Article 73, which I would now point at, which is in paragraph 3 where it is indicated that BiH will take all necessary measures to ensure, after the entry into force of this Agreement, that the level of protection of intellectual, industrial and commercial property is similar to that existing in the Community, including effective means of achieving such rights. Also, in Section 4. The Stabilisation and Association Agreement has found that, within five years of the entry into force of the Agreement, BiH will have to access all multilateral conventions in the field of intellectual, industrial and commercial ownership. It is also explicitly indicated in this position that the parties accept the importance attached to the principles of the IPR Agreement, which we call a TRIP agreement, which contains a minimum of the requirements that each Member State of the World Trade Organisation must provide in its legislation. I would perhaps just like to report to the esteemed House on the international conventions that currently, of the 25 international conventions administered by the World Organisation, BiH member of the 20 international conventions, and that we are still in the accession process and those other conventions that follow. If I may, only briefly on the grounds for the adoption of two laws governing the area of copyright and related rights. Currently, the Law on Copyright and Related Rights adopted by the BiH Parliamentary Assembly in 2002 is in force. At that time, when the first legislative reform was made in this area, it was indeed one law that contained all the newspapers, primarily referring to those obligations under the TRIP Agreement. The law does not comply with ACQUIS because at that time, and there was no need to comply with the directives. However, the development of new technologies, the form of the use of copyright works, the directive, all of these processes in which our country is involved have really shown the need to approach the root change of the current Law, which does not mean that when we were preparing the text of the Law, we did not respect all those institutes that are in force in the Law, by perhaps doing some new technical harmonisation, improving the quality of a legal norm. And I think the text of the reasoning also indicates that we have kept the quality solutions of the existing law and we have made certain amendments and additions, introducing a lot of institutes that were not even contained in this law. Among other things, these are the rights of follow-up relating to works of art, then the right to repent, the exhaustion of rights, the legal license. And there is something that is important new, which is that we, as a measure of law, have proposed in the Law that copyrights are deposited at the Institute of Intellectual Property, not in order to gain rights, because we have still maintained the basic principle of the Bern Convention that, in order to obtain copyright, no form is necessary anywhere in the world, it is not necessary to apply to any competent institution, but we have clearly appreciated that the experiences of countries in the environment that have such a single system have shown that also the depositing of works for those authors who want to act in such a way in order to provide evidence in the event of future infringement of law, I mean, such a solution has proved truly quality and we have adopted it. 75 The Copyright and Related Rights Act is essentially governed by the rights of the author, the rights of the performer, everything contained in Article 1, the exercise of copyright, protection and scope. I might just make one comment about the area of copyright and related rights. Basically, all copyrights are granted individually and through the power of attorney. One way is collective achievement. So it's just one model of how certain rights that, indeed, because of certain specialities can't be achieved in an individual way, and that was why we chose to do a special regulation that would regulate the model of collective achievement. Which means that the Law on collective exercise of copyright and related rights respects all the legal institutes of the Law on Individual Realisation and is, in fact, in one respect, co-ordination under that law. We have also made in transitional provisions the very link between these two laws and the legal link between the existing law where it stands explicitly, in Article 190, paragraph 2, that the provisions relating to collective exercise of the rights under the existing law will remain in force and apply until the Parliamentary Assembly of BiH adopts and the Law on collective exercise of copyright and related rights. The reason is that, we assumed that we would carry out our obligation, therefore, in front of the Institute, and, behold, now as a Proposer and the Council of Ministers of BiH, at the same time passed two laws, but, in order not to come to a legal situation so as not to adopt two laws at the same time, that transitional provision has reconciled this one legal situation. As far as the Law on collective achievement is concerned, there is a model proposed. I must say that there is currently no directive in the EU that harmonizes collectively the achievement of copyright and related rights, so when we were preparing this text, we did, in fact, a comparative-legal analysis of the model of collective achievement of states in the environment and we appreciated that the model that proved to be modern, efficient, that it was in some way, and in a phase, not to say suggested, but confirmed as a quality model by the international confederate of the author Cisak as an extremely good solution. So these were the reasons why we suggested that they be done in detail on the basis of collective achievement. Compared to the current Law, this model has a lot of important newspapers, a lot of changes and precisely respecting that the concept of such a realization is now completely changed, we have left in the transitional provisions of this law one period of two years, estimating that this will be a reasonable period for existing collective organisations, which the Institute has granted permission, that they have time to prepare, to comply with all those legal obligations for their regulation of legal status and that, I think I can say, they can continue to work, because it all depends on which association they manage to provide all of that and to meet all those conditions that are contained. I'm thanking you. In fact, if I may just not turn out that the Institute has been doing these laws, the laws have been made in the framework of the European Commission project, all the laws in the field of intellectual property. In a two-year period, we with the team of the European Commission, with experts involved in the project, have managed to prepare seven laws that govern the entire chapter of intellectual property. Thank you.
ParlaMint-BA_2010-02-03-0.u32408	I thank the director, Mrs. Lidija Vignjević. You've heard detailed explanations of both laws. We're moving on to the discussion. Dear Ambassador Šefik Džaferović. Here you go. 76
ParlaMint-BA_2010-02-03-0.u32409	Just for a minute, Mr. Chairman. My colleagues and colleagues. The laws have been reviewed by the Constitutional Commission, both laws. We supported them in the first reading unanimously. I suggest that the House do the same. It will be necessary to make some amendments and there will be some of my colleagues, and our colleagues, who will invest the amendments, on this by the time there is another reading. I suggest to the House that the law be not accepted in the first reading. That's it, thank you.
ParlaMint-BA_2010-02-03-0.u32410	Thank you. Dear Ambassador Martin Raguž. Here you go.
ParlaMint-BA_2010-02-03-0.u32411	I thank you, Mr. President. Before I say anything about this law, allow me a sentence on the discussion of the Law on Liabilities, i.e. on Liabilities. With Mr. Lijanović gone, I'll only tell one sentence, one anecdote. When fresh after Dejton asked... the returnee had freedom of movement in BiH, there was a lot of talk about freedom of movement, he said – there is, but there is no freedom of stop. Any similarity to today's debate is random, as far as I'm concerned. And as far as the law itself is concerned, I'm not really going to repeat, I'm also proposing congratulations to the European Commission teams, really, this has been a big deal, but in order for this job to end, in my opinion, it's necessary to do a few things. First, my proposal is also to hold a public debate in the BiH Parliament after we support the Law in the first reading with key interested entities that there are many and whose opinion should be heard, given that this law concerns them directly. So that's the first thing. Two, why is this law passed? I'll only read one sentence from really good reasons. This law was passed in 2002. At that time, it was an ambition that this branch of the legal system, meaning, an area of intellectual property, in the era of new technology and the forms of use of copyright works in the last 10 years, were thoroughly disturbed relations between the rightholders and the users of the subject of protection. Now, how do you arrange for us to balance these relationships? So here we have been given reasons that this is also consistent with ACQUIS COMMUNAUTAIRE and with the directives that are eight, and that this is consistent with all the important conventions, Bernska, Rome, Brussels, etc., which I believe, and what I believe from the superficial review is also possible to see, but it is a question of what the mood of those who are directly concerned in BiH is. This is one serious question, and how has this current law been applied in the first place, and how effective is it in BiH? And there are grades different, so I'm going to tell you a few things that I think would be important to keep in mind. First, the deadlines foreseen here for this law to be implemented are unreasonablely long, so it says, the start of application should run from 2013. I mean, one very important question. So we're passing the law now, and it should be applied in three to four years. 77 Secondly, what are the instruments and do you think there are instruments in the legal system for the implementation of this law? It is according to some analyses and assessments, in fact, the greatest weakness, otherwise, of our system, that we do not have the quality of law enforcement and the application of instruments. And, then, what would be the point of bringing it now if it would only apply for four years? I mean, that's one serious question, especially with Articles 185 and 187. Here, we heard some reason why there are two laws. You have that argument, but also the largest number of countries in Europe, over 90%, have solved it with one comprehensive law. Secondly, there are no small rights mentioned in this law, i.e. public performances which are the main reason for collective achievement. Is that an oversight or a mistake? And many things have been left to the Institute that it solves them by its implementing acts, which is, in some ways, logical, but it's also a matter of law if a lot of things are left to the relevant implementing body that it regulates decisions. I think we're not going to lose anything, this is a big deal, this BiH is getting really one quality legal basis, which we all need to welcome together and make a contribution that this effort that's been put into further detail, and I don't think it would hurt to have a public debate within 15 days, here, we've heard from both colleagues and the amendment, so let's finish this job well. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-BA_2010-02-03-0.u32412	Thank you. Dear Ambassador Velimir Jukić. Here you go.
ParlaMint-BA_2010-02-03-0.u32413	Here, I'll do it very briefly, bearing in mind the fact that, here, it's almost 5:00 p.m., and we agreed today that we'd be working by 17.00 p.m. Well, I'll just say a few words. So I think that this law, that is, these two laws are very important and important and that they are well and well done and that they are, in fact, only part of the law in the field of the Law on the Protection of Intellectual Property and now really, my predecessor, Mr. Raguž, has asked the right question. So what is the construction and training of BiH's institutions to implement these laws? It's a really real question and a key question, because, here, only an example works, tens of years ago, in the United States, biti Gejts began his career as a businessman, as a young man with very modest means and thanks, among other things, to an orderly state where this question was arranged, therefore, an area of intellectual property, he became one of the richest, perhaps the richest, but here last year he was reportedly passed by another man in wealth, but no matter, he became one of the richest people in the world. In our country, that wouldn't be possible. Why? Because we do not have developed institutions that can protect, or enforce, these laws, or protect the intellectual property of individuals. However, I hope that the adoption of this law, i.e. these laws, will be a small contribution to building the necessary institutions to implement these laws. By the time I've heard from you, I'll say just one more thought about some of the solutions in this law, although we're talking about principles today, but still, this is even at the level of principle, that's what I've been saying to the competent commission when speaking here about this part - criminal provisions, so there's an unusually large range of estimated fines from 5 to 200 thousand marks. True, this is a very specific law and problem, but it may take a little more than 78 clarifications in this part, possibly, or to make some kind of structure, so what is it, that a little bit and that... but it's certainly an opportunity in the amendment phase, so if there's a need, of course, we can change that too. Thank you.
ParlaMint-BA_2010-02-03-0.u32414	Here, we still have Chairman Živković.
ParlaMint-BA_2010-02-03-0.u32415	Thank you. Just for a little while. So the SNSD will support the bill in the first reading. We believe that this is extremely complex and important matter, that it is not close enough, nor is our public aware of the specificity of this matter, and therefore we support the proposal for a public debate to be held. So, the proposal for a conclusion – The Constitutional Legal Commission of the House of Representatives is tasked with organising and conducting a public debate on the Proposal for a Law on Copyright and Related Rights and the Proposal for a Law on collective exercise of copyright and related rights to which all interested legal and natural persons from the territory of BiH will be invited through the means of information. It is in line with the Rules of Procedure that the Constitutional Commission is organising a public debate, what is the topic, how much time and how it will do so, so I think we will get as high-quality laws and better amendments. Thank you.
ParlaMint-BA_2010-02-03-0.u32416	Here, just in case we close the debate.
ParlaMint-BA_2010-02-03-0.u32417	Thank you. No more reports. I'm closing the debate. Moving to point 13, Ad. 13. Proposal for a Law on Amendments and Supplements to the Customs Policy Act of Bosnia and Herzegovina – Proposer: Council of Ministers of BiH (first reading) The BiH Council of Ministers delivered the Law to regular procedure 6.1. The Constitutional Commission delivered its opinion on the constitutional basis on 19.1. The Commission for Foreign Trade and Customs has delivered its opinion on 27.1. I'm opening a debate on the bill in the first reading. If there are no reports, I'll conclude the hearing. 79 We move to point 14, Ad. 14. Proposal for a Law on Amendments and Supplements to the Law on the Basicity of Traffic on Roads in Bosnia and Herzegovina – Proposer: Council of Ministers of BiH (first reading)
ParlaMint-BA_2010-02-03-0.u32420	Here, Mr. Chairman, I was thinking on behalf of the Commission to say that if today's law is adopted in the first reading, and I don't really see why it would not be accepted, the Commission has already predicted that a public debate is being held on the 18th of this month. By now, through the media, it has been shown that, regardless of the changes and additions, there are plenty of them, that there is a great public interest and we will, of course, provide the public with opportunities to be seen, and then there will be enough time and time for MPs to, after the public debate, which you will all be invited to, of course, be amended to act on these additions and amendments.
ParlaMint-BA_2010-02-03-0.u32421	Thank you. This may only be a notice to the House that the Transport Commission is opening a public debate, because according to the Rules of Procedure, you can, so it's only one notice. Dear Ambassador Mirko Okolić. Here you go.
ParlaMint-BA_2010-02-03-0.u32422	Thank you, Mr. Chairman. Since the Commission, as Mr Dokić said, has now decided, I came forward shortly before he said they had decided, this is also support to the Commission, that is, to all those who are proposing a public debate, because this law is such a broad application in the public that this public debate is necessary. They have the support for that.
ParlaMint-BA_2010-02-03-0.u32423	Thank you. No more reports. I'm closing the debate. 80 We move to point 15, Ad. 15. Proposal for a Law on Working Time, Mandatory Holidays of Mobile Workers and Road Transport Recording Devices – Proposer: Council of Ministers of BiH (first reading) At the 70th House session, held on 21.1., a request for a shortened procedure was adopted. The Constitutional Foundation Opinion of the Constitutional Commission delivered 1.2. The competent Commission for Transport and Communications in 1.2 delivered its opinion on the principles of the Law. I'm opening a debate on the bill in the first reading. There are no applications for discussion. I'm closing the debate. Moving to point 16, Ad. 16. Proposal for a Law on Amendments and Supplements to the Framework Law on Higher Education – Proposer: Representative Denis Bećirović (first reading)
ParlaMint-BA_2010-02-03-0.u32426	Your Honor, Mr. Chairman. Since at the beginning of the session today, we were looking for answers to some questions and we didn't get them, and the fact remains that in this House, anyone can say whatever they want, not taking care of the code or anything, since we didn't get an apology from Mr Bećirović, and we said that we would have our own relationship. Therefore, we will not participate, nor will we attend the agenda point in which Mr Bećirović speaks and we will leave the session.
ParlaMint-BA_2010-02-03-0.u32427	Let's move on, Denis Bećirović.
ParlaMint-BA_2010-02-03-0.u32428	Mr. Chairman. 81 I, too, did not get some specific questions answered today. Unfortunately, not only are we here in Parliament but many of the victims in BiH have not received the answers they needed, but that is the fact they are. I'll still go back to the agenda and dot that's on the agenda. First of all, I want to thank the Constitutional Commission for supporting the principles of this law. In fact, before I begin to discuss it, I am obliged to draw attention to Article 36 and Article 37. Framework law on higher education. In this law, Article 36 listed four types of rights that students in BiH have, and in Article 37, we have 3 obligations. As rights, the student has the right to attend lectures, seminars and other forms of teaching. _________(?) [[microphone is not enabled]] Wait a minute, here, in front of me they say that...
ParlaMint-BA_2010-02-03-0.u32430	May I have your attention, please? Here you go. _________(?) [[microphone is not enabled]]
ParlaMint-BA_2010-02-03-0.u32431	Wait a minute, wait a minute. Let me, Mr. Chairman, regardless of these comments, I'm not here right now saying what I think about it, I'm quoting what it says in the law that you voted. So, I repeat...
ParlaMint-BA_2010-02-03-0.u32432	I don't know who's contesting it.
ParlaMint-BA_2010-02-03-0.u32433	Please.
ParlaMint-BA_2010-02-03-0.u32434	I don't know what the problem is.
ParlaMint-BA_2010-02-03-0.u32435	There was an intruder, like what I... 82
ParlaMint-BA_2010-02-03-0.u32436	Well, well, leave that later, not the intruder. Here you go, Mr. Bećirović.
ParlaMint-BA_2010-02-03-0.u32437	Okay, I hope not, all right. So, I quote, the law accurately states – that it is the right of students. Further in the Law, Article 36, states that it is the right to use libraries and other services for students, then to participate in the elections for student posts and the right to recognise and transfer points between accredited higher education institutions. It is currently in force in BiH. Now, with this bill of law, this framework law on higher education is my proposal to complement the following rights. That a student has the right to eat at a university, that a student has the right to accommodation in an institution, of course, I will not read everything because it is written, that he has the right to information, publishing activities, to attend lectures, etc. All these are the elementary rights of students who currently do not exist in this law. I, like the other MPs, have received the opinion of the Ministry of Civil Affairs, established on...
ParlaMint-BA_2010-02-03-0.u32438	I'm sorry, Denise, I'm begging you not to come out. We're critical with the quorum. Please.
ParlaMint-BA_2010-02-03-0.u32439	...determined at the 111st session, so, January 13, 2010. And interestingly, the minister of civil affairs and the Council of Ministers of BiH is here, in its report, that the right of students to diet and accommodation, I quote -- is required by increased financial resources in budgets. In translation, we, if we can interpret it as – because it requires increased funding, we will not determine in the Law that students have the right to accommodation and nutrition. For me, this interpretation is, indeed, unacceptable. Next, the ministry of civil affairs points to the fact that the area of education is in the jurisdiction of resolution ministries in Republika Srpska, 10 cantons in the Federation of BiH and the Brcko District. That could have been an explanation 4-5 years ago when this state didn't have this state-level law. Now BiH has this law and has regulated part of these student rights and obligations. Therefore, it is absolutely unacceptable and unsustainable interpretation by which we no longer have the right to correct this law and to insert what is contained in many other countries. It would be enough to look at and do a comparative analysis of BiH in this area with countries, first, here, in the neighbourhood, and then in the EU, so that we can see that this law needs to be introduced and improved in the coming period. I have to say, this law is kind of a test. If it cannot pass in this parliament, to determine what are the elementary rights of students, who are the rights of students in all cities in 83 BiH, then the question is what can be done in this parliament. This law absolutely does not endanger anyone, prescribes rights for all students, even in this case it does not enter into constitutional jurisdiction at all, etc. Entities, cantons and the Brcko District have their rights in this area and they continue to retain them. There's no dilemma here. The question would be, if we don't want to establish in this law the rights of students in this case, so why, let's say, in the Constitution, we've accepted 15 different conventions on human rights, etc., we might as well say there are no financial resources, so we won't have those rights either. I think there is a legitimate need for all BiH students to pass this law. He, I repeat, does not endanger anyone and I, at the end of my presentation, invite the PSBiH House of Representatives to support this bill in the first reading. Eventually, if there are any additions, changes, we have a chance in another reading to fix these things. Thank you.
ParlaMint-BA_2010-02-03-0.u32440	We have one replica. Here you go, Mrs. Malić.
ParlaMint-BA_2010-02-03-0.u32441	Dear Mr. Chairman, colleagues and colleagues. I have a real obligation to react even though I really don't like to replicate, and this time I react and replicate to the president of the SNSD Club, more because of the record, not because of the warming or re-warming of the atmosphere. So, what if they didn't have an alleged apology. You are witnesses, even a few years ago, at the very beginning that your SNSD colleagues said no matter what the SDP club or individuals suggest they will always be against. Okay, that's an illustration of their political maturity, political approach, etc., but I think it's very ugly, when serious things are discussed in our country, to seek an apology in an urgent way. But since I've already spent, here, not a full minute, let me just look again at this argument about the bill's proposal and the necessary procedures for 12 competent ministries and their consent to change anything, so I'm thinking about all these laws that we're about...
ParlaMint-BA_2010-02-03-0.u32442	Who's that replica, I'm sorry, what are you talking about right now?
ParlaMint-BA_2010-02-03-0.u32443	I said nice, if you'll excuse me, I'm using another minute.
ParlaMint-BA_2010-02-03-0.u32444	You want to discuss, please.
ParlaMint-BA_2010-02-03-0.u32445	Just a minute. 84
ParlaMint-BA_2010-02-03-0.u32446	Replication is for the record, it's in. Here you go.
ParlaMint-BA_2010-02-03-0.u32447	Okay. But here, if you'll excuse me, I won't if you don't allow it. I mean, there's a lot of things that we've put into procedure today, and if it's asked for all that consent, all the lower forms of organization, then I'm afraid there's nothing from our European path. And at the same time, we also have today a new point and a commission to do a quality assessment of education – will the commission also have to seek the consent of all cantons or entities in which universities exist because of the jurisdiction or incompetence of the state department within the Ministry of Civil Affairs? We're not going anywhere with reforms, and youth is what we should build this country's future on. If we give them that kind of education, it'll be terrible. Thank you and forgive me.
ParlaMint-BA_2010-02-03-0.u32448	Let's move on. Branko Dokić, discussion.
ParlaMint-BA_2010-02-03-0.u32449	Thank you, Mr. Chairman. I thought after a discussion at one of the last sessions, where they really discussed it, it seems to me, people competent, who have been working with students for a long time or throughout their lifetime, my colleague Denis will withdraw this proposal. No, I'm really surprised that he didn't do it. Because, here, this very thing that he suggests to pass in this law, aside from now the reasoning and jurisdiction, the adoption of these standards of this law could be very dangerous. I'll try to explain that to you. I'm not going to discuss what my colleague Azra was, I think, discussing the last time we talked here about student obligations, not the right students where their obligations are explicitly. So let's split it up. And maybe it's because it stands in the existing law. But, look, if you put it this way – the student has the right to accommodation in the institution for the accommodation of students, it can create a big problem, given that legal standards are often very formal. That could mean next. As far as I know, in BiH, 20% of students do not have the opportunity to settle in those facilities called student accommodation. With this provision of the law, every student who doesn't get a place in a dormitory has the right to sue someone. Who do you want him to sue? It is a similar situation with the provision that the student has the right to diet for students. There's a little problem, but there's also a problem. If the norm had stood here if we had to say that no one but the students were allowed to live in an institution intended for the residence of the students, I would have accepted that standard regardless of whose jurisdiction it is, because unfortunately, we have in practice and cases like that to live in dorms and some others. I think it's only enough for these two to get you to know, to point out, that you're clear enough how dangerous this would be. If it is said here that a student has the right to a student scholarship and has the right to credit, it can literally be understood and that any student can ask someone under this law to provide him with a loan and provide him with a scholarship. 85 So, here, this is my relationship with this question, regardless of whose jurisdiction it is and where adoption is from, here, this law could cost someone both nerves, and headaches, and court proceedings, etc., and let us not go into such risks that are obviously possible.
ParlaMint-BA_2010-02-03-0.u32450	Replica, Denis Bećirović.
ParlaMint-BA_2010-02-03-0.u32451	In the first part, colleague Dokić, we can and must agree when it comes to the rights and obligations prescribed under the law. So this parliament passed the Framework Law on Higher Education. I have this text right here where, in Article 36, there are current provisions in that law, and in Article 37, that's what it stands for. So here's a copy of the Official List where it was published. Now I'm only asking one question here. I listened carefully to this presentation by my fellow Dokić about whether this would cause a headache in BiH and certain problems from the point of view when we put this into law and when someone is able to implement this. I ask one question - if these are the same norms, I stress the same ones, contained in the laws that I have here, the Republic of Croatia, now I am talking about the neighbourhood, the Republic of Serbia-Montenegro, the three countries with which BiH borders, and if they are written in their laws, and if these countries guarantee the students the right, I started first from the neighbourhood, what is the dispute between BiH and its youth, and we all call on that youth to be the future of this country, guarantees this right? I also did a comparative analysis of the legal solutions in the area and in a number of EU countries. And all EU countries have regulated this issue much more extensively than BiH. We have just one question here – will the students in BiH, all students, and those in Banja Luka, and Tuzla, and Sarajevo, and Mostar, etc., have the rights given to their fellow students in Serbia, Montenegro, the Republic of Croatia, in EU countries, or will we continue to have a state-level law without these rights? Maybe someone thinks we should still have a law like this that doesn't regulate these issues for different reasons, but I just want to point out that my motive was to equalise students in BiH in legal rights with students from the neighbourhood and with students from the EU. That's the essence of the story.
ParlaMint-BA_2010-02-03-0.u32452	Replica, Mr. Dokić.
ParlaMint-BA_2010-02-03-0.u32453	Well, I'm not going to say that in other countries this isn't more comprehensively regulated, but the way it's suggested here, I say again, it can be very dangerous, because legal norm, colleague Džaferović knows it better than I do, I've experienced it as an engineer, often too formal. I'm just saying that a formula like this can cause us great problems. If it had stood here, here when we talk about accommodation only, if the student had, every student has an equal right to student accommodation according to, you know what provisions there these student accommodations, I would accept it 86, because then he would point to the inability of discrimination to refuse and fit standards and regulations. It's too open and wide like this. On the other hand, and when I said this so broadly, I would very much like to discuss somewhere whether the state should be so gallant and that it equally enables students who study at state universities and in private to use student accommodation built by the state, which we have. So that's a topic that isn't covered by this law. I would be happy to respond to some discussions on these issues. I point out once again, in a situation where even 20% of the students at state universities have no right to student accommodation, we offer equal opportunities in this entire wide range of universities and universities. Here, I'm for that kind of discrimination. But other questions are just as casual. This doesn't mean, I told you, unfortunately, we've passed a law that's very casual, but that doesn't mean that if we had one law that went the way it did, very inaccurately, that we should now be adding it to its inaccuracy and inaccuracy. Here, I won't answer again.
ParlaMint-BA_2010-02-03-0.u32454	Momčilo Novaković, discussion.
ParlaMint-BA_2010-02-03-0.u32455	I thank you, Mr. Chairman. Dear colleagues and colleagues. You see, an earlier member of the 36th whose provisions have found a place in this new law, especially here, I will read item 3, says – The student has the right to attend all lectures, seminars and other forms of teaching organised under their subjects according to their position and depending on the possibilities and other forms of organized teaching. You know, here's the apriori thing in possibilities. So, the student has the right to do all that, but depending on the possibility, means the institutions are organizing it. That this law states that the student has the right to transport in local, inter-local traffic depending on the possibility, so those who organise it, that's a completely different context and meaning. And I just want to add to this, get involved in this debate that Professor Dokić has entered, and I don't think the Proposer has made any changes to the law in the spirit of the law. So the rights there are quite different, in another context observed, so, observed in the context of possibilities, and here exclusively in the context of rights. Be careful, which means someone has the right to recover and rest at student standard institutions or, I don't know, not to move on now. We, when we passed this law, then we defined some rights concerning space, a single area of BiH, and then we said that, I don't know, the right to recognise and transfer points between accredited higher education institutions, with a clear intention of not having any discrimination. We also said not to participate in the elections, etc., etc. We didn't discuss these questions at the time. After all, the largest number of institutions have regulated these issues in the acts. I'm a little interested, I have to say that I'm a little interested in some universities, and the largest number of institutions have these questions defined in their acts. Of course, whether in a way or approximately this way, but mostly defined through one limiting factor, which is consistent with the possibilities, so that university. Thank you. 87
ParlaMint-BA_2010-02-03-0.u32456	Eh, now we're going to be replicas. I'm moving Bešlagić.
ParlaMint-BA_2010-02-03-0.u32457	Respect, Chairman. We'll be very brief. It is that this is the first reading and absolutely in the proposal of Mr Denis Bećirović, for the addition of this, it is not said to be exclusively... according to the possibilities, which means – if it is considered excluded, in the second stage will be left with that clause and ending. On the other hand, I'd like to ask you not to be underprivileged, so when we bring in the declarations and regulations that bind us, which are financially asking for a lot of funding, because we here have accepted the Declaration on the Protection of Persons with Disabilities, etc. which would cost far more financially than it would cost... although I say according to the possibilities, and so it rules out, we adopted it without taking care that if it applies, if it starts to apply to those to whom this declaration belongs, we are bankrupt. So I'd ask you, either we'll take care of finance anywhere, or, with these changes, which, by chance, would create conditions, we wouldn't be the exception to others. So it's about first reading, and I'd ask if there weren't a lot of discussions. It'll either pass, so in the amendment phase, it'll write it down or it won't go away. Because I don't think we're wasting any time, because we've discussed this the last time.
ParlaMint-BA_2010-02-03-0.u32458	Eh, Selime, it takes at least twice. Here you go, Mr. Bećirović, replica.
ParlaMint-BA_2010-02-03-0.u32459	I think the entire debate so far has been constructive and I want to understand all these suggestions that have been so far, that they have been in terms of correcting the text of this law. And I would first invite all my colleagues, here, and my colleague Dokić, who discussed this, to support this law today in the first reading and to leave the possibility in the second stage that we should also act in amendment, to specify certain things, etc. So we stay completely flexible to get to the best possible solutions. The essence of this law is to prescribe the rights of students and to prescribe the elementary rights of students throughout BiH. I have to say, even this text of legislation that we have in front of us today is much more restrictive in terms of the coverage of student rights than any law in the region or in Europe. And that should certainly be in mind. And I don't wish we were always trying to invent hot water here in the BiH Parliament. Well, at least in some things we could look up to EU countries, countries in the region, etc., because it's very difficult to explain why in no law in BiH, here, we now have a state-level Higher Education Act, we will not guarantee at least a minimum of student rights, and at the same time we have a situation to regulate all other countries in a certain way. 88 Mr. Novaković, the aim of this law is to oppose discrimination and to try to guarantee certain student rights. And I have to say that, I didn't talk about it, that when I talked to representatives of a number of student organisations, there were a lot of objections to this text of the law because they said that much more rights had to be counted, because people know very well today what rights students in other countries have. So I suggest, therefore, if it is possible for us to adopt this in our first reading, the easiest thing to do is to bring down the law, if someone wants to take down, and in the second reading, to leave opportunities for the amendments, possibly if there is a public debate. I'm up for it, too. To support our first reading, let's have a public debate in Banja Luka, Tuzla, Sarajevo, Mostar and all other places, Zenica, Bihaća, etc., wherever there are universities, to hear the opinions of students, to ask the question to students – are you willing to regulate these rights in BiH or not. Let's also hear the opinion of people who are employed in the education system, how much it costs, what's possible, what's not, to hear international experiences about this problem. But, therefore, for one I am a professional, competent, open public debate, and I think it allows us to adopt this text today in our first reading. If we refuse it in the first reading, we will send an ugly message to all students in BiH.
ParlaMint-BA_2010-02-03-0.u32460	Replica, Branko Dokić.
ParlaMint-BA_2010-02-03-0.u32461	I'll just have two sentences. The amendment to this would require an incomparably greater text than the original text. I didn't discuss those things that were discussed last time, in the sense that it's defined here as a student law where it's an explicit student obligation. It will bring us this sort of thing legal uncertainty and diversity in the same way. That's the problem, colleague Denise, is not the problem.
ParlaMint-BA_2010-02-03-0.u32462	Dear Ambassador Mirko Okolić, discussion. Here you go.
ParlaMint-BA_2010-02-03-0.u32463	Thank you, Mr. Chairman. He says, in a rationale, financial means for implementing this law, there is no need to provide additional financial resources in the budget of the BiH institutions, which I cannot fully agree with. If you give someone rights and something to use on the basis of these rights, of course it withdraws certain financial resources. Here, I will be specific, so I will say that financial resources are certainly needed to achieve this law and here in Article 1, I will read it, says – the student has the right to transport in local and local traffic. I ask the question, who's going to give him those benefits? Who will bear the difference between the real price of transportation and its benefits? So, the competent ministry must bear it, immediately, so it is necessary to say here that certain financial resources are needed for this law. 89 Next, he says – students have the following rights, so he says – at a diet in the institution for feeding students, for accommodation in the institution for the accommodation of students, on student credit, on a scholarship, etc., here, not to read any further. I don't know if these rights are now denied to anyone? How is it not defined? If he has a scholarship, it's defined when scholarships are shared. I don't think this has been consistent so far. This is a nice attempt to make progress in this law, but I don't think it's possible in this way that something will have to change here. What Mr. Dokić said here would be too many amendments and more than half the law, so I don't think it's good to go through in the first reading. Let's move on, it says in Article 1. – these rights may be further elaborated in the Statute of the institution. This isn't working out with each other. You say above in Article 1, that the student has the following right, and then again you give someone the opportunity to further elaborate and say that he, we don't have enough capacity, will not be entitled to accommodation, or will not be entitled to food in the cafeteria, etc., etc., which, in my opinion, needs to be defined... He says here, in the reasons for the adoption, the reason for amending the existing Framework Law on Higher Education in BiH is to prescribe additional students' rights. I couldn't find any additional rights here compared to those rights that the student has so far. It is now another thing whether the state and other institutions, which regulate this matter, have the means to provide it. I know that I have the right to send a child to college, and I know that my child is entitled to a scholarship if he has funds, or, if he has a scholarship, if he doesn't, he's free of it. And I think this is just something that's a nice attempt to do something of this, but this needs to be rewritten, that is, a lot of work on this, if you want to put a similar law in the process. Thank you.
ParlaMint-BA_2010-02-03-0.u32464	Thank you. Dear Member Nermina Zaimović-Uzunović-Uzunovic. Here you go.
ParlaMint-BA_2010-02-03-0.u32465	Thank you very much. I feel the obligation and need to report because I've been working in higher education for 30 years and I'm deeply involved in all these processes that are happening with Bolonja. We all passed this law and 12, 13 ministries and ministers signed it, believing that someone else would do it on behalf of this country. It is well known that such processes would take place, budgets are needed and there is a need to allocate a lot of resources to meet the criteria. We'd make Bolonja, but in the Bosnian way. We would have a framework law without there being anything within it. We, if we have already adopted and if we are already building a system of higher education that will be compatible with Europeans, and if today we are choosing board members, if we have an agency that will evaluate this, and I have participated almost in these evaluation processes by European evaluators, then I must say that they have also put some similar remark written, unfortunately, that I have not stated to you, precisely concerning some lack, that is, the failure of all that we have identified. Of course, you can give someone a right that he does not have to use. I may have the right to drive now to Zenica, and I can stay and sleep in Sarajevo. It's my right to drive 90, which doesn't mean that every student will use this and that they have to use something and that they have to allocate funds. But, please, it's a question of standard, of our path to European integration, this is one of the important laws that we talk about a lot. I'm going to take the right to talk to my students at university after this, anything that you can conclude here, I have the right, and I'm going to have a public debate about this, to see what the students think about this. Let me get you a message on this next time. Namely, what is controversial and what should be controversial about the fact that a student has the right to privileges? So when I was a student, a long time ago, I had the perks of transportation in this town. I don't see what it would be like to be here after 30 years of dispute, if we didn't give it a chance. What would be a dispute if we gave free transportation to the students in this town? I am deeply disappointed with the views we have here, and we are declaring ourselves European integration, all the students in Germany have this, and in other European countries that have come seriously and cautiously towards these things. It's not hard for us to start in the cantons of new colleges that require hundreds of thousands of marks, to train staff that no one will need. That's not hard for us. It's enough to have a congregation majority, but it's hard for students, for those who... provide a bus ticket. I think it's embarrassing and I would really appeal to everyone here to accept this in our first reading and to organise a public debate and then to come here with such attitudes, of course, in all the places where they have university centers. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-BA_2010-02-03-0.u32466	The second vice-president, Mr. Beriz Belkić, is a replica.
ParlaMint-BA_2010-02-03-0.u32467	The replica of Denis Bećirović and you, ma'am. So whoever's taking the test, who's having a hard time, who won't, let us know. Here, an hour and a half of talking, we won't, we'll take the test. Tell me who won't. You knock on the open door.
ParlaMint-BA_2010-02-03-0.u32468	Dear Ambassador Momčilo Novaković, replica. Here you go.
ParlaMint-BA_2010-02-03-0.u32469	Thank you, Mr. Chairman. I have to say that I really respect my colleague's right to use a business opportunity to propose laws, but somehow the debate on this law is slowly like some kind of press. And I need to be honest that every proposal we have lately by a fellow SDP turns into some kind of press release. Look, we here now need to come through the debate to plead out who's for students, who's against students, who's for students to have a right and who's against students to have a right. Come on, please, dear colleague, and I've also studied, believe me, there were then state-owned businesses for urban traffic, for urban, etc., so there were benefits. Today they're private companies and someone has to pay them. If someone has to pay them, it's a new cost. So it's not correct for everyone here to comment, it's really not 91 correct to press this way. I'm for all the students to have all these rights and rights. But please... (?) No microphone turned on ...is, all citizens, but apparently, that Communism got away from us, which was supposed to provide it. So, my dear gentlemen, I have spoken, I repeat, I have spoken to some institutions, higher education institutions that have defined these rights in their acts. They have defined, of course, in accordance with the possibilities,... they can regulate in accordance with the possibilities. What does this mean now that we are pressuring the BiH Parliament in this way? I'm afraid because of this press and some sincere intentions, they get a completely different context, if they're honest at all. Here, I'd really like to ask you to stop that pressure, to stop the characterization of those who are against some law, in one incorrect way. It's not right.
ParlaMint-BA_2010-02-03-0.u32471	Thank you. Dear Ambassador Mirko Okolić, replica. Here you go.
ParlaMint-BA_2010-02-03-0.u32472	The replica of Mrs. Zaimović. Given that I said it was impossible to implement this law without requiring certain financial resources, and that Mrs Zaimović, an honourable MP, said in her discussion something that could be misread, which is that I am against, possibly so that it could be interpreted, against it and that it would not be a disgrace for children, i.e. students, to have the privilege. Me, personally, when it comes to me, I'm for them to have free transportation. However, we must understand that there is no longer any possibility as in the past system where it was poured from the fund into the fund, because it was all one state, such an arrangement, that these costs were borne by the state. And that's when the transporters, I know very well, refunded by the state what they gave off on transport in some traffic, whether urban or suburban. That's what someone has to pay for. It's impossible for anyone to pay for it. Therefore, it had to be in this law, i.e. to stand, that certain financial resources were needed. I'm up for it, if we want to open another topic, and it's about the standard of students, whether they need a privilege, whether they need some kind of commercial or student price for housing in a dorm room, whether they need it in the cafeteria to be without VAT food or half... etc., it's already another question that we need to solve through something else, and it can't be solved through this law that's now in the proposal. So, if we don't get it wrong, I'm also, for all possible rights that can be achieved in the state, just asking a question -- who can finance it, which country, someone who proposes it has to say -- the funds will be pushed away from it and that. As I am for the rights of 92 combatants and disabled and foster mothers, for the first, second, third, fourth and fifth children and not to count anymore. We just need to know how long we are, how long we can stretch out, or how long our blanket is. _________(?) [[no microphone turned on]] That's right, whoever takes the right, let him take the power. So I think this is impossible to support even in the first reading, because if we wanted to correct these amendments, there would be more amendments than members of the law. It is generally known in practice that the law should fall if there are over 50% of amendments. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-BA_2010-02-03-0.u32474	Thank you. Replica, honourable Ambassador Vinko Zorić. Here you go.
ParlaMint-BA_2010-02-03-0.u32475	counterpart Bećirović probably tried to whisper exactly what I wanted to say in the lack of replicas. The city of Zagreb has free transportation for all students, students and pensioners. But that's not the result of state law. If that were the result of the state law, then it would be in all cities, and it would not be just in Zagreb. I say it is not the result of the law but the decision of the City of Zagreb. But if I had the ambition as my colleague Bećirović to pass this law, I would try to get as many colleagues as possible to vote in favour of this law. I even threw it at you at one point, I don't know how much my colleague heard, now I'm going to tell the public, you're only missing it at one point, when you said this should be supported, like who doesn't support it, then he's a fascist. That's all you missed. No, I'm serious about this. You're all black and white. If it's not like this, then it's you, if it isn't, if my law doesn't pass, then it's not the anti-fascist majority, if we don't support it. NERMINA
ParlaMint-BA_2010-02-03-0.u32476	/no microphone turned on/
ParlaMint-BA_2010-02-03-0.u32477	kolegica Nermin, and you will come to order, just slowly. I kept my mouth shut when you were talking. I'll take a minute longer. I've been distracted. So whatever doesn't go through mine, this other majority, who didn't vote for it, is marked. That's not good. You need to lobby and try to get the law through. And to you, Mrs. Nermin, you probably shortened this line to your colleague Bećirović, you missed the topic. If I were to evaluate your article, I'd just write an insufficient 1, missed subject. And by the way, you've talked wonderfully. So it's like you're writing, the title is spring, you're writing about snow, etc. So it's all beautifully written, but the subject is missing, not enough 1. 93
ParlaMint-BA_2010-02-03-0.u32478	Dear Ambassador Slavko Matić. Here you go.
ParlaMint-BA_2010-02-03-0.u32479	Here, I'll really try very briefly. My replica refers to several latest discussions by counterpart Nermina Zaimović, directly at her debate and several misdemeanors that were in connection with the debate of fellow Okolić, when he argued that, in the context of the proposal, where financial resources are being discussed, it was concluded that they were not needed additionally, citing that the BiH Institutions' budget is being thought of. We all know that these rights that would be introduced by this law, which everyone reasonable supports, produce considerable and significant financial resources. If they're not from the institution's budget, they're from another level, which means some lower levels. kolegica Zaimović says that Bologna is not being implemented because 13 ministries, among other things, are obstructing financial obligations in the process. And does this law make the lower ministries and lower levels of government participate financially? Whether this law is meant to burden the entity's budgets financially, the county's budgets, to finance free transportation, free housing, etc.? That principle is not sustainable in this law. It cannot prescribe a lower level of rights from which financial obligations arise, rather than saying that this lower level of government will reach these funds. It's simply not a sustainable principle. We see it best at the level of the Federation of BiH what happened. We've prescribed various rights, so we said, they'll pay the cantons, and at the end of the community, they don't have municipalities, they don't have cantons, they don't have employment offices, nobody has any money. And where did we come from? That every second, third day we have demonstrations and protests. Maybe this is what he's trying to do. We don't know that.
ParlaMint-BA_2010-02-03-0.u32480	Thank you. Dear Ambassador Vinko Zorić, replica.
ParlaMint-BA_2010-02-03-0.u32481	Yeah. I wanted to say a little while ago about this funding. It's not true that it doesn't cost this budget. Just in the context in which Slavko Matić spoke, it will pay lower levels, but at the expense of distribution. Less will stay up, less will remain on state level. So they will take the entities and cantons in that division, they will say – because you have imposed these obligations on us. It can't come from anything. Energy is indestructible, it can only go from one form to another. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-BA_2010-02-03-0.u32482	Thank you. Dear Ambassador Selim Bešlagić, replica. 94
ParlaMint-BA_2010-02-03-0.u32483	I don't think these predecessors have even read the financial resources in which they clearly say that the implementation of this law does not require the provision of additional financial resources in the budget of the BiH institutions. Please, it stands, it's a fact. Everyone's talking at the same time.
ParlaMint-BA_2010-02-03-0.u32484	Wait a minute, please turn around.
ParlaMint-BA_2010-02-03-0.u32485	In the Framework Law, you have no budget for this area in gold. Sadik-
ParlaMint-BA_2010-02-03-0.u32486	No microphone turned on
ParlaMint-BA_2010-02-03-0.u32487	Well, stop, Bahtić, you want everyone to take the rights, and no one will commit you here in Parliament right now, and we in Parliament, here I am, and we in Parliament are now taking care of lower levels. We are a state Parliament that should guarantee students, students, workers, peasants, human rights for which we are signatories of all possible declarations. This is one of the human rights. As they will react below, let them learn how they know and know, how they hold firm that they are their real universities, that they are their real schools, etc. Everyone's talking at the same time.
ParlaMint-BA_2010-02-03-0.u32488	Thank you. Dear Ambassador Šemsudin Mehmedović, replica. Here you go.
ParlaMint-BA_2010-02-03-0.u32489	My replica refers, in fact, to the replicas of distinguished colleagues, here, selo Bešlagić and Professor Uzunović. In fact, this law that was proposed could have been much shorter. So we don't have a lot of lines on what all the students have rights to, because I guess the bill of this law wanted to win the love of the students. But if we propose a much shorter law, I think we're going to satisfy the discussions of distinguished colleagues who oppose this law and those who are the legislators of this law, which is just one right to determine for each student, that's the right to six. We'll avoid the costs, and they'll be satisfied with the students, right, these financiers. Thank you very much. 95
ParlaMint-BA_2010-02-03-0.u32490	Thank you. Dear Ambassador Savo Erić, replica. Here you go.
ParlaMint-BA_2010-02-03-0.u32491	How long have we been working, Chairman?
ParlaMint-BA_2010-02-03-0.u32492	So as long as there's a replica and we don't finish the agenda, I can't formulate the conclusion that we're going to vote on as we continue this session. So I can't break the half-line agenda. I'm trying to ask you to finish it, so we can move forward on how we're going to work. Here you go.
ParlaMint-BA_2010-02-03-0.u32493	Thank you. I've been trying all this time to be rational and find a note of rationality, but I'm about to take one 20 initiatives for the next 10 days, 50 points that really won't have a passing point, and I don't really see this much energy from the SDP Lord to impose on us a story and a pace that we need to follow. And what I was going to say is, dispersing a hollow of demagogy and social mathematics, so we got into capitalism, you were all for that democracy, you have to provide money, then make laws. It would be wiser to make an economic story, suggest some smarter stories, and then people will pay for themselves. He won't have this hollow story.../touching the microphone... of which he won't have anything. That's the point. And I'd really like you to cut this story down if we're thinking of doing something in the future. We've been sitting here for five or six hours and we're really bored, and it's been going on for months and it really doesn't make sense. Thank you.
ParlaMint-BA_2010-02-03-0.u32494	Dear Ambassador Mirko Okolić.
ParlaMint-BA_2010-02-03-0.u32495	There's no replica after me, I don't believe.
ParlaMint-BA_2010-02-03-0.u32496	I don't know which one it is. 96
ParlaMint-BA_2010-02-03-0.u32497	It wasn't a replica, it was a discussion.
ParlaMint-BA_2010-02-03-0.u32498	Second, they say second.
ParlaMint-BA_2010-02-03-0.u32499	Second, second, and I keep records. Replication, third call, ma'am, yes, one was a discussion. I only trust the Secretary of the House what he says. Right? Am I right? I did.
ParlaMint-BA_2010-02-03-0.u32500	So we're from... Mirko.
ParlaMint-BA_2010-02-03-0.u32501	The replica to Mr. Selim Bešlagić, which I must fence from. The honourable messenger said that we should pass the law, and let these down on the lower levels do their best to implement it. That, in my opinion, is unserious. The State MP can't say that, he can't put himself in trouble at lower levels. That's what I'm building on.
ParlaMint-BA_2010-02-03-0.u32502	No more reports. I'm closing the agenda. In consultation with the other deputy, our proposal is, since it's far 17th, and today we can't just vote on what we're done with, because, I remind you, we're left with appointments of other commissions, bodies, ratification of contracts, so that we can continue at 10:00 p.m. It's Wednesday next week, if he answers the MPs, and we have to put it to a vote. Please, we're voting on stopping the session and continuing on Wednesday, February 10th. Prepare to vote. You can vote now. For 22, it wasn't, two abstentions. I'm guessing we decided it's Wednesday at 10:00. Session aborted at 1745 hours.
