ParlaMint-BA_2010-04-21-0.u34301	Ladies and gentlemen, fellow Members of Parliament, distinguished guests, I am opening the 76th session of the Parliamentary House of Bosnia and Herzegovina. My fellow Members and fellow Members, the distinguished guests, today we invited regular guests: the chairman and members of the BiH Presidency, the chairman and members of the Council of Ministers of BiH, representatives of the OHR, the OSCE, who are monitoring the work of our House, as well as representatives of certain NGOs and associations who have asked to attend today's session when the agendas they are interested in on the agenda. We also invited representatives of the Ombudsman, the Central Bank, the Post Office and the Governing Board of BiH Radio Television to discuss the report on the work of those institutions. I welcome all present MPs and guests, as well as media representatives. According to our service, there are currently 36 MPs present. Ambassador Sead Jamakosmanović announced a delay, and the absence was justified by honourable MPs Jerko Ivanković and Savo Erić. I find the session has a quorum for full-time work and decision-making. As part of the previous questions, I'd like to inform you of the following. Members of the SNSD Club delivered a resolution on the recognition of genocide against Armenians, in accordance with Article 148, paragraph 2. Rules of Procedure. The House should be made known on the previous issues whether to refer the resolution to the committee responsible. If Dom adopts this proposal, the resolution will be addressed to the competent commission. Otherwise, it will be included in today's session agenda. Please prepare to vote. You can vote now. So we're voting to refer the usual procedure to the commission.
ParlaMint-BA_2010-04-21-0.u34302	Is there a debate?
ParlaMint-BA_2010-04-21-0.u34303	These are the previous questions. 2
ParlaMint-BA_2010-04-21-0.u34304	Previous questions and these are questions that may need to be discussed.
ParlaMint-BA_2010-04-21-0.u34305	We haven't discussed any previous issues so far. So far, it has been common for resolutions to be referred to a commission phase, but Dom can make a precedent this time and discuss it. I don't mind, if you want to discuss it. But if we discuss it, we can discuss it if we put it on the agenda. I ask you that, as we have done so far, here, we will repeat the vote. We are voting on whether Dom agrees that the resolution is headed for the commission phase. Please prepare for the vote. You can vote now. For 11, versus 24, abstention 1. I konstatovati that the House has not decided to send the resolution into the commission phase and it automatically enters today's session agenda, at paragraph 25, after the appointment of an ad hoc commission, and before the ratification of the agreement. _________(?) [[no microphone turned on]] Take it easy, there's no rush. As for the changes in the agenda, I want to introduce you to the agenda that we added item 4. – The request of the Council of Ministers of BiH to consider the Proposal for a Law on the adoption of the Law on Amendments and Supplements to the Law on the Court of Justice of BiH, at the urgent procedure and point 5, the same name or identical request, and this is the Law on the Prosecutor's Office. On the previous agenda, point 4. - Proposal for a law on copyright and related rights. It is a reformation of the agenda point, it is a statement by the House on the setting of a new deadline for submitting the report to the Constitutional Commission, after the Constitutional Legal Commission twice had an extension to submit the report. It is also the same point of point 5, and it is the Law on collective exercise of copyright and related rights. Point 6 is – Proposal for a law on the application of the results of analysis of deoxyribonucleic acid in court proceedings and the Proposal for a Law on Amendments and Supplements to the Labour Act in BiH institutions due to the untimely delivery of the report of the Constitutional Legal Commission. These two laws won't be on the agenda today. I'm opening a debate on the proposed agenda. Dear Ambassador Šefik Džaferović. Here you go.
ParlaMint-BA_2010-04-21-0.u34307	Mr. Chairman. 3 So, just one little addition to what you were talking about, correctness for. If you read this the way you wrote it, it's off the agenda because of the untimely delivery of the Constitutional Commission's report. Well, then, what you said today, after two times the deadline for the Constitutional Legal Commission is extended, it would be your turn to tell the House and the Bosnian Herzegovina public what is, in fact, true, because it can be concluded from this that the Constitutional Commission is asleep, although this is one of the most active commissions, by definition, in the BiH Parliament and you should have rightly said that these two copyright laws are removed at the request of the BiH Council of Ministers. We supported their request because there are 200 amendments to two laws and have not yet sent us a statement. That is, therefore, the complete truth. And with regard to these two laws -- the Law on Labour and the Law on DNA results, one law was submitted about 40 amendments, and all the time there was communication with the Council of Ministers of BiH and a report was made on Monday. Reports were made and there was little goodwill, as in some other cases, it could have been on the agenda today, but it wasn't, but the reports were over. And it's not because of the failure of the Constitutional Commission and the untimely delivery, but because the laws were prepared as they were prepared, after 40-50 amendments to laws that had 40-50 members, each had to be collected. The Constitutional Commission has been working all along, and that's the real truth about all this. That's it, thank you.
ParlaMint-BA_2010-04-21-0.u34308	I wasn't talking about the truth, I was talking about facts, and the fact is that these laws are down because, according to the Rules of Procedure, we can't discuss them. Dear Ambassador Husein Nanić. Here you go.
ParlaMint-BA_2010-04-21-0.u34309	I thank you, Chairman. Here, I wanted within this item of the agenda, so, in accordance with my initiative, which I submitted at the previous session with a request for the next session, this means today, to include the agenda point, and given the conclusion that this House has made, and several conclusions before that, which we have entrusted to the Council of Ministers of BiH to provide us with information on the activities to address BiH institutions' accommodation related to the problem, so on. the problem of the lease. I'd like to get information on these previous issues on the state of that point, my agenda initiative. I wouldn't insist, but I would like to have information in which state my request is to put on the agenda of that agenda.
ParlaMint-BA_2010-04-21-0.u34310	I think it's a question for an extended college. Had the issue been asked at the Extended College, information would have been given that the forms that were sent to the BiH Council of Ministers were still being filled in. We have received a few forms for these rooms, that this item of the agenda will be on the agenda of the BiH Parliament's session when we get all the information. So there's a part of the agenda in preparation. Dear Ambassador Momčilo Novaković. Here you go. 4
ParlaMint-BA_2010-04-21-0.u34311	Thank you, Mr. Chairman. Dear members of the College, members of the BiH Council of Ministers, colleagues and colleagues. I would like to propose for today's meeting of the PSBiH House of Representatives one item on the agenda, a new item on the agenda, which is – the responsibility of the BiH presidency members to conduct BiH foreign policy in light of the latest statements made by individual members of the Presidency. I believe that for a long time already, almost since the formation of this BiH presidency, some members of the presidency are breaking the BiH Constitution. This proposal on the agenda is, in fact, the continuity of my dealings with this issue. Namely, to remind only my colleagues that I have repeatedly insisted, too, on the debate over the situation in the DKP network, about shutting down certain consulates. That I submitted an initiative at the previous session to bring the positions in the delegations' performances into line, means not permanent but occasional delegations. And, here, because of the last, I say, the last statements that, in fact, just initiated my intention or accelerated my intention, I think we really need to determine to what extent, and I am sure that, to what extent and for what reasons and motives the BiH Presidency or individual members of the Presidency acted in the way they did and what damage BiH was really done. Namely, I have some documents here, and I can, if adopted to have this on the agenda today, give it to my colleagues, namely, to multiply for all my colleagues, but it is clear that the responsibility of the BiH Presidency is the conduct of foreign policy rather than the competence of individual members of the Presidency, which is more than evident, means that the BiH Presidency must agree on this and that the presentation of the co-partisan and personal positions in the function of the Bureau members is a harsh violation of the Constitution. Of course, I have a document here – General Directions and Priorities for implementing BiH's foreign policy, where, too, the main direction in foreign policy is to establish – the improvement of co-operation with neighbouring countries of the Republic of Croatia, Serbia and Montenegro on the basis of basics, neither do I, mutual respect, etc., etc. I also have here a copy of the Rules of Procedure on the work of the BiH Presidency which correctly and clearly speaks about the responsibilities of the BiH presidency. And, of course, I only have one part of the big statements here, etc. I'd just like to say that I've been preparing this point seriously, and that's why I suggest that it be on today's agenda. I don't have a suggestion when, of course, if adopted, let the Kolegijum decide. Thank you.
ParlaMint-BA_2010-04-21-0.u34312	Replica, Reverend Halid Genjac. Here you go. Wrong. Mr. Novaković, I am thinking whether you should give these materials to multiply in view of the commitment of the MPs to accept your agenda, and then only those materials would, in practice, be photocopied for free. But if you'd agreed to put the agenda item in place, then I'd have the services photocopy those materials that you've prepared, but it certainly means you have materials for this item on the agenda. Dear Ambassador Branko Dokić. Here you go. 5
ParlaMint-BA_2010-04-21-0.u34313	Mr. Chairman. I, of course, support this initiative by my colleague Novaković, but I don't think it's realistic that we're discussing it today. I want to remind you that this house has adopted one of my initiatives, and I think there is more than half a year, in which the BiH Presidency is asked to submit a written report to this house and to speak orally about BiH's relations with our neighbours. It hasn't been realised yet, as you know. I think this is an opportunity, this initiative, to urgently request from this home one such report and within such a report to find these topics that counterpart Novaković thought he was talking about, and probably others to have elements to talk about. It is evident that some members of the BiH presidency are behaving destructively in terms of BiH's interest, but here it is my opinion at the moment. I'd really like to discuss it in their presence, because it can only have an effect. But I didn't even answer for this, so here's what I took the opportunity to do. Mr. Chairman, today, the Interim Committee on Making the Census Act should adopt its report and it will be on the first break, so I hope that at least we don't have a lot of disputes about it, and then that would be good, maybe even at today's session, to be a part of the agenda. I personally don't insist on it, but I think it's a chance for the MPs to get to know each other until we get to know each other and possibly a chance is then, if there's something to be done about this, to do something about it. This will result in this commission both formally and essentially completing its work. But here, not knowing whether or not the point will be included, I want to tell you that we are failing to finish our work. I stress this because someone is more pleased to say, therefore, this commission has failed to complete its work, because it will provide you with material in which two positions, i.e. one position in two members, are not in line. So, we don't have two sentences in the List Act, and we want to do these reports with our own infamous business.
ParlaMint-BA_2010-04-21-0.u34314	Thank you. I prefer that you specifically suggested that we take a half-hour break so that the commission could complete the report, so that we could present this report to the MPs. Can MPs read the report if they receive it during today’s session? I don't think it's possible to do this today, so I think it would be a good idea for you to finish the report, deliver it to the MPs, and we can open a debate about it. Dear Ambassador Drago Kalabić. Here you go.
ParlaMint-BA_2010-04-21-0.u34315	Mr. Chairman, distinguished colleagues and colleagues. For the SNSD, there is no dispute over this proposal Mr. Novaković spoke of and supported by Mr. Dokić, but since we do not have materials, I do not dispute that the proposal has prepared materials, and in this discussion it is said very generally, some members of the BiH Presidency are mentioned as having 17 members. So, we'd like it to be better explained, given that in the Presidency, all people have their own name and last name and, if anything, all the shops know who is when and what moves they make and that we know little more specifically. There is a Serbian, Croatian and Bosniak member of the BiH presidency, there is a name and 6 last name and that we can prepare for the debate, not slow down, means the right to specify which actions and moves are thought of. Are these the bad moves of the entire BiH Presidency, whether the entire Bureau is running a bad policy, whether one member, two members, a name and a last name and what things are thought of, even though we believe in each variant that this point should be on the agenda and that we think we support it. The SNSD, as we will also say in the discussion, has clearly and accurately identified problems in the BiH presidency and we know who is leading a destructive and dangerous policy in BiH. But we expect the proposer to help us a little, who was he referring to under this "some"?
ParlaMint-BA_2010-04-21-0.u34316	Thank you. The reply was given by Honourable Ambassador Momčilo Novaković, right? Here you go.
ParlaMint-BA_2010-04-21-0.u34317	You see, I have said in the proposal that one of the documents that I propose for insight is also a copy of the Rules of Procedure on the work of the BiH Presidency, which, of course, I have made quite clear, that with the part where I said in light of the last statements, I have clearly directed the debate towards, not the debate, but I am initiating the debate, therefore, on the latest statements of the BiH presidency, Mr Silajdžić. However, the BiH Constitution has defined that the BiH presidency is responsible for the conduct of foreign policy and therefore, the point and must vote, quite logically, means, the responsibility of the BiH presidency to conduct foreign policy, and in the context of the debate, it would likely be differentiated whether it is responsible as a collective body or individually as the chairman, I don't know what he did in terms of harming foreign policy, so it was initiated by the latest statements of BiH presidency chairman, Mr Silajdžić.
ParlaMint-BA_2010-04-21-0.u34318	Thank you. Replica, honourable Ambassador Husein Nanić. Here you go.
ParlaMint-BA_2010-04-21-0.u34319	I thank you, Chairman. The replica is, in fact, my request that Mr. Novaković and Mr. Kalabić make the request more clearly at this point of the agenda. Are the ambitions for us to discuss in the BiH Parliamentary Assembly a report on the work of the BiH Presidency or on statements by members of the Presidency or on some of the latest statements, etc. So it would be nice to explain this, what ambitions this home has to do with the BiH presidency.
ParlaMint-BA_2010-04-21-0.u34320	Thank you. Dear Member Azra Hadžiahmetović. Here you go. 7
ParlaMint-BA_2010-04-21-0.u34321	Thank you, Chairman. Here, I mistakenly reported the discussion even though I had more intention of correcting the wrong allegations and eventually giving some clarifications. First, there are no Serbian, Croatian and Bosniak members of the BiH presidency, but members of the presidency from the order of the Serb, Croatian and Bosniak people. Secondly, Mr. Kalabić doesn't know who he's talking about. I'll just say, of course, but it's not HDZ. Generally, you see the situation we are in, when the highest legislative authority does not have legislative initiative and legislative work, then it comes to initiatives to discuss the responsibility of a legally elected body in this country for leadership, for example. foreign policy. So, what is the constitutional authority of the BiH presidency. In addition, in the proposal, in the oral evaluation of counterpart Novaković, we had that debate in the presence of the BiH Presidency, so here I am asking the question – what if they do not respond to such a debate, because we, the BiH Parliament, cannot oblige members of the Presidency to come. And besides, here's a suggestion from a colleague named Momčilo that he's going to give material to his colleagues in this House, so I'd like to ask him to give it to his colleagues. Thank you.
ParlaMint-BA_2010-04-21-0.u34322	Thank you. Dear Ambassador Drago Kalabić, replica. Here you go.
ParlaMint-BA_2010-04-21-0.u34323	Yes, normally, I understood what the esteemed colleague said, not the neck, but the neck. It would probably be good if we could present it here that it was chosen by citizens and that they were responding to the citizens and that the citizens were wondering about their choice and the like. And good thing, we've heard those stories. And if they won't come and say something. It's important here to say. And if they do what they do and it's important to say even though we may not be able to influence it. Here, I've now received a proposal from the agenda point and we from the SNSD are agreed to have it put up like this, but we've been looking for, in an explanation that the whole story and a million problems in this country are because of one man. We wanted from the promoter to hear what the motive for this point is, and it's inevitable to formulate itself like this, I totally agree, but it's clear who's real, what people would say, whiteness and destruction, and we're ready to absolutely participate, in accordance with the provisions, in the debate. But we want it to be clearly identified, so it's not about the stuff that's stuck and the darkened stuff, it's about things that are well known by name and name, and that's how we identify them. And everyone about them will take their stand and mine was just a request to be precise because we're talking about the arguments of a point that will just be on the agenda and that everyone knows its formulation and that they know the motives for its inclusion on the agenda. Nothing else.
ParlaMint-BA_2010-04-21-0.u34324	Replica, the second deputy chairman, Mr. Beriz Belkić. Here you go. 8
ParlaMint-BA_2010-04-21-0.u34325	I very much appreciate and I am very pleased that Mr. Novaković is closely following the statements of the BiH presidency members, and that is good. And when it comes to that, Mr. Kalabić, to know who is the greatest destruction in this country and against this country, it is indeed known. You really know that.
ParlaMint-BA_2010-04-21-0.u34326	Dear Ambassador Sadik Bahtić, replica. Here you go.
ParlaMint-BA_2010-04-21-0.u34327	Here, I need the same replica. I consider this the beginning of an election campaign in the RS. Apparently, some of them were afraid of choices. I am pleased that you have located Dr. Haris Silajdžić as... because this man speaks with his heart and heart and true of the state of BiH, and for him is the state above all else. It is those who want to tear it down and who daily make anti-Dayton statements that demand this debate. You have no chance, the BiH state has been a thousand years, and there will be after us, gentlemen dear, there have been many stronger faces and generals and war criminals who have tried and failed, so neither will these here, as they say, little mice. Thank you.
ParlaMint-BA_2010-04-21-0.u34328	Replica, Honourable Ambassador Momčilo Novaković. Here you go.
ParlaMint-BA_2010-04-21-0.u34329	Oh, please, colleagues, I don't know what really is now the intention of colleagues who are trying to say, okay, the debate on this point will turn into a debate about responsibility, I don't know, or I don't know, about the existing situation, about this and about that. I've made it perfectly clear here that this is about responsibility for foreign policy. If you think that a member of the BiH presidency and the chairman of the BiH presidency is not responsible for taking foreign policy now, and the constitution says what it says, then I don't really know, I don't know, then how it is possible that we are in any way discussing this issue. Look, maybe the man will be here, and maybe he won't be, in our opinion, responsible after the debate. But it's obvious that it's a violation of the Constitution. I think the least we can conclude is that the BiH Constitution has been violated. It's the least we can figure out. I do not want to enter into a debate at all now and in conflict, (well played by the party's tandem for BiH and the SNSD, now to enter into this debate). I suggested it was clear, so the responsibility of BiH presidency members following statements by Mr Silajdžić. And there have been earlier statements, not true, and Mr Komšić has made non-diplomatic statements to the neighbours. There's a document adopted in 2003, there's nothing else that talks about basic directions. And I don't see, really, why we're having a debate in some other direction right now. There's nothing to argue about. If colleagues do not want to accept this item of the agenda, I will turn it into an initiative that will never come to the agenda, as did Mr Dokić. She hasn't come in six months, she'll never come. Because members of the BiH presidency have not even come to this parliament for their term of office. Nor are they seen as responsible citizens of the 9th country, but they consider themselves responsible for themselves and their parties. Not even your own parties. I claim that at least 50% of the members of the BiH Party do not think what their boss is saying. I even think he doesn't mean what he says sometimes. But that's what I think now, it doesn't matter, it's not about discussing responsibility for foreign policy, it's about having a relationship with a man named Haris Silajdžić.
ParlaMint-BA_2010-04-21-0.u34330	Let's move on with the replicas. Dear Ambassador Remzija Kadrić. Here you go.
ParlaMint-BA_2010-04-21-0.u34331	Under the BiH Constitution, the BiH presidency is in charge of foreign policy management. Therefore, what Novaković suggests, with his proposal, as he formulated it, wants to take away the BiH presidency's right to lead foreign policy. Therefore, the Presidency is competent and responsible for the conduct of foreign policy. Therefore, he does not have the right to confiscate the presidency's right to lead foreign policy.
ParlaMint-BA_2010-04-21-0.u34332	You don't think we can put this agenda item to a vote at all, do you? Dear Ambassador Zlatko Lagumdžija. Here you go.
ParlaMint-BA_2010-04-21-0.u34333	I thank you, Mr. Chairman. First, I take the opportunity to thank the ministers who are here and it's a really rare opportunity for us to have so many ministers here and I thank them. I especially thank Mr Ahmetović because this initiative for the agenda point makes more sense then. In fact, 3.2., not 2.2., but 3.2. the initiative was launched in this House, 2.2. happened, we all know, and the next day an initiative was launched to provide us with complete information about an operation called "Sacredness". On 25.3. we received a memo that the BiH Council of Ministers is familiar with the conclusion of the BiH Parliamentary Assembly. Watch what it says, 25.3. They're familiar with our conclusion. And they immediately adopted the Security Minister's information and immediately reached a conclusion, as soon as they met, they immediately concluded that it was good information and they tasked the minister to send us... In 31.03, the Ministry of Security sent this information to the BiH Parliamentary Assembly and, behold, at last 6.4 in the BiH Parliamentary Assembly, that information was received. Today is the 21st, so today we have a session of Parliament where we do not have that information. I am aware from the means of information that there is something wrong with that information, even among the ruling parties, which is a great progress since that information is not right, but it is a special topic and we could say something about it if this was the point of the agenda. So, Mr President, my question to the Minister of Security and to you – Why is this not put as a part of the agenda because there is a conclusion of the BiH Parliamentary Assembly? In the end, to inform us, you, if you've agreed something, to inform us what you've agreed on and see what's going to happen. That's one thing. 10 Second, 10.3. So before, here, the 40th one was yesterday, in Parliament I started to inform ourselves about that famous terrorist list that was sent to the UN. What's going on? On 26.3., at one of the extensions of our session, which, 23.3., was then 13 days later, the Minister of Security, since he had not delivered that information to us in 7 days, 23.3., told this speaker that we would give him 7 days, because he was about to. And then we said it was okay, so we'd better get that information and discuss it. Unlike this first "Light" when 2.2. it happened, this 10.3. we still... Minister, and you told us here after this speaker that it's somewhere in the Foreign Ministry, it's here, so we're about to, we still don't have it.
ParlaMint-BA_2010-04-21-0.u34334	Time.
ParlaMint-BA_2010-04-21-0.u34335	I, therefore, would ask, Mr. Chairman, to do the lifting of this house... and again thank the Minister for being here, I expect that he will complete our agenda today with these two points of the agenda, because it was his promise that he had, and in the end, we better end it here, however he does himself, than never, (against others) who don't deserve it. There, thank you very much.
ParlaMint-BA_2010-04-21-0.u34336	Thank you. Regarding your first request, I will remind you that at the 14th plenary session, together with both homes, we adopted the conclusion that our joint commission should first discuss this information, and they discussed it, and I received information that they returned that report, that it should be completed. When our joint commission finishes their work with a report, which they consider appropriate, then we continue the 14th plenary session of this home, so we discuss each other's agenda, as this home has concluded. On the second point, no, no, no, that's how it's agreed, and so that point of the agenda has grown to the point of the plenary session agenda, I'm talking about the follow-up of the 14th plenary session. On the other problem you were talking about, distinguished Minister Sadik Ahmetović wanted to give an explanation. Here you go, Minister.
ParlaMint-BA_2010-04-21-0.u34337	Dear colleagues, honourable MPs. So, when it comes to information, this first one, Mr. Živković explained mostly. I, as a minister, have information from police agencies and nothing added, nor taken, sublimated, and the power of the ministry is in such a way that the information of the operational services, which have operational jurisdiction, sublime and send it to this Parliament and I have done so. 11 What, therefore, brings me into a dilemma, is an active case at the BiH Prosecutor's Office and probably the BiH Prosecutor's Office, because of an ongoing investigation, cannot come out with more information and probably when all these procedures are completed, and this parliament and the public in BiH will know more about it and that information (can be obtained) from the competent institutions. When it comes to the second part of this list of 45, I am, this parliament has adopted the conclusion that the information first goes to the Council of Ministers of BiH, then to the Parliamentary Assembly of BiH, I signed the information and sent it to the BiH Council of Ministers. The Council of Ministers hasn't discussed it yet. So I neither draw up the agenda of this Parliament nor the Council of Ministers with this regard (?). When the procedure is completed in the BiH Council of Ministers, it is likely that the same procedure will also be delivered to the BiH Parliament. Thank you.
ParlaMint-BA_2010-04-21-0.u34338	Thank you, Minister. We're moving on with our applications. Dear Ambassador Sadik Bahtić, replica. Here you go.
ParlaMint-BA_2010-04-21-0.u34339	I have to replicate to counterpart Novaković when he said he thought half of the party's membership for BiH did not mean as a member of the BiH presidency, Dr Haris Silajdžić. To remind him that a member of the presidency, Dr Haris Silajdžić, received 300,000 votes in the last elections and that the Party for BiH received twice as much. Not only does it mean that they do not support the views of the Party for BiH, but many other and other political options, and I am glad that it is an indication that it is enough for those who care about the state, but for those who would in some way tear it down and degrade it. Thank you.
ParlaMint-BA_2010-04-21-0.u34340	Thank you. Replica, dear Ambassador Zlatko Lagumdžija. Here you go.
ParlaMint-BA_2010-04-21-0.u34341	First, I thank the Minister for finding it appropriate to say anything. And about what he said -- Mr. Minister, we know that the BiH Prosecutor's Office is working on "Lightness". We know that from the means of information. However, we did not ask to be a court, we even said, even we needed information from the point of view of the overall political implications, given the huge things that were said that day and what had become divisive after that. And we wanted, I repeat once again, to be like the BiH Parliament, or to support the end of the matter, if there are grounds for such a thing, or if, indeed, some institutions, which are clearly, as things are now standing, have messed up in all this, to place them in their place, including individuals from those institutions. And because, as you can see, one such action, here, yesterday I read again in one media, the only thing that has been found so far is that children have been abandoned, some of them found there, and that really wasn't enough reason for one of these actions. For these reasons, I believe that you have 12 right not to give that information because you are tolerated by most, but I don't think it's correct that you brought us into this. And as for this other information that you say you signed, you told us last time, it's not about you, it's about the full information of the BiH Council of Ministers that includes, you even referred to the fact that the Ministry of Foreign Affairs sent you information that's very important, but that you need to unite it and that's why it doesn't seem any further. And finally, Mr. Sadiković, Ahmetović, I apologize to Mr. Ahmetović, Mr. Ahmetović, I think you are, as far as I know, the deputy chairman of the BiH Council of Ministers. If by any chance you weren't here, I'd ask Mr. Čolak on behalf of the Council of Ministers what's going on. But don't you know, on behalf of the Council of Ministers of BiH, when your information will be on the Council of Ministers and when it will be united, that's something that is discouraging. In the end, there is nothing left for me but to regret that you are objectively doing your job below the expectations of a large number of people, and your Council of Ministers of BiH, thank Bog, has long been undeniable to do so and there is nothing I can do to make you respect this parliament. I'm just surprised that other colleagues are letting the BiH Council of Ministers and individual ministers simply disrespect us. But I owe myself to say it and thank you anyway.
ParlaMint-BA_2010-04-21-0.u34342	Thank you, too. Dear Ambassador Drago Kalabić, discussion. Here you go.
ParlaMint-BA_2010-04-21-0.u34343	Well, here, the position of the SNSD Parliament Club has always been to try to define the agenda at the Extended College, and neither have we proposed agenda points and often and (we did not support the enlargement of the agenda) (?Because we think that's where it is. Only when we felt that there was one high degree of consent to let the point in, did we support it, if they are all agreeable, therefore support this proposal by Mr. Novaković. It was initiated in the public statement by the SDA, which has been directed against the BiH presidency, Mr Silajdžić, in recent days, and that statement has told us that there is general agreement, because, believe me, we have never written such a statement against Silajdžić either. And we felt that there was a majority necessary for this kind of debate. It was a motive today for us to support it, if that's true, because it's enough, who read that statement, to see what people wrote, because in other ways we differ, everyone stands in some of their positions and it's initiated by something else. However, after this, we felt that this was enough and that there was a general consensus to discuss the responsibility of the member, i.e. the current chairman of the BiH presidency. Whether or not the SNSD is correct to itself, since the agencies say yesterday that 52% is at this point in the SNSD and that it is enough for it to form its own government, I cannot lie, that it has a good contribution from Mr Silajdžić and now I am thinking whether it is correct for us to criticise him or, in some way, to accept it. We've never stood better than during Mr Silajdžić's reign and I don't know what we're disrupting now or, I don't know, which, in some ways, we're spoiling. But, here, we can't, if he's not responsible for this 13-state thing, we are and we can't support this point, I mean, there will be things after us and after him. And that's one of our motives to support this point of the agenda. As for this list of terrorist organizations, I rather have a feeling, it's my personal feeling, that it's about expanding it, than it's going to come down, given these arguments and this situation as it goes with deadlines, and with something that's seven days, it's obviously going to be seven months and so on. And that various institutions have brought this parliament into a humiliating position, that is correct, but it is tolerated here and we cannot from this skin. Thank you.
ParlaMint-BA_2010-04-21-0.u34344	Thank you. Dear Ambassador Halid Genjac. Is this a replica now? Here you go, replica.
ParlaMint-BA_2010-04-21-0.u34345	Thank you. I have a need to react, I think that, however, there should be patience and wait for complete information on the action "Lightness", without any unnecessary addition and politicisation of this issue that additional damage can be done, and I agree that there have been damage to that in some aspects. But we can only have a final debate here when all the necessary information is collected. And I think that we should refrain from making a correct statement by the Minister of Security and giving him information on the information delivery procedure, which we rarely face here at the BiH Council of Ministers, to assess that the minister is doing his duty below public expectations. I don't think that's correct. And I think that, however, both patience and will in one intention which seems to me to be good, but that intention should be achieved to the best extent, however, patience. That's one thing. The second thing, if the measure is on the agenda, the SDA statement, I think today should be on the agenda of the RS prime minister, because the SDA issued a very categorical statement on the latest procedures of the commission in Srebrenica, the matter of the referendum, etc. The statements and statements by the SDA regarding members of the BiH presidency refer only to the issues of appearance and individual statements. The SDA's statement on foreign policy and the conduct of the foreign policy of members of the Presidency and the Presidency was not, and I say, if this is a measure, then we should really go that way, so what was really in the SDA's statements was to put it on the agenda urgently.
ParlaMint-BA_2010-04-21-0.u34346	Let's move on. Replica, dear Ambassador Zlatko Lagumdžija. Here you go.
ParlaMint-BA_2010-04-21-0.u34347	I want to tell Mr. Genjac, whom I greatly appreciate, since he obviously referred to what I was saying, and I agree with him and I am glad that he, too, confirmed that it rarely happens here that the minister is here at all and that is why we both commended Mr. Ahmetović. 14 I also agree with him that Minister Ahmetović has procedurally explained to us last time, not only is he there, but he has even explained some of the procedures to us. And that's a big shift. He's not just here, he's also explaining the procedure. However, I really expected, since Mr Ahmetović is the minister of whom I had really serious expectations, knowing him as a man and as a colleague here, it is not enough for me that he is here and to explain the procedure to us. And that's why I really think he worked below my expectations. If he was working according to your expectations, as much as he was present and procedurally explaining to you what was going on, then obviously we have different benchmarks of success.
ParlaMint-BA_2010-04-21-0.u34348	Here, the minister needs to explain his position on the information. Here you go, Minister.
ParlaMint-BA_2010-04-21-0.u34349	I hope that we all know the department's competences and that the ministry has no operational authority in this, the only ministry in Europe that is not there, when it comes to the action "Lightness", the minister could have been uninformed, and that the check could have been carried out, that it should be completed and that the minister should know from the papers. So that's the law we have right now, and that's the truth, and we need to face it. Sometimes, when it comes to asking for information and responsibility, we act as if the Ministry of Security has the capacity of ministers in Croatia or Serbia, and when we have to vote here to give jurisdiction to the Ministry of Security, then we probably get into trouble. So that's it. When it comes to the "Lightness" action, the Ministry of Security can only receive information from its correspondence with competent agencies, which have operational competence. He who receives it and can pass it on to you, but only sublime it and forward it to you. So, you can draw conclusions here what you want to contain information, so I can also serve as a bond, so I can ask the competent law enforcement agencies. We'll see if he answers. So, I'm prepared to do that as a minister. I don't know what is expected of the information, since it is an active case in the BiH Prosecutor's Office and probably the prosecutor at this point, or after an investigation, would have more information or could give more information. So that's what I want to tell you. It is not even a practice in countries to debate active prosecution cases in parliament. So, and we have to face it, and that's our reality, and I can say about it, there are judges and prosecutors who have worked in those positions in the past. So, therefore, I am expressing my willingness to discuss both today and tomorrow and whenever we discuss the information that I have received from law enforcement agencies. I couldn't write any more since I didn't have the capacity as a minister, by law, to be able to write more or to have more information. So I'm ready, I have this information on me, and I'm ready to talk about it today. When it comes to the procedure, that it was not a procedure, or Parliament's conclusion when it comes to the 45-list information, that it is not going to the Council of Ministers, this parliament could say that the minister is going directly to the BiH Parliamentary Assembly. So we could have been here today with that information. Unfortunately, the BiH Parliament's conclusion was to go first to the BiH Council of Ministers, so that when the Council of Ministers completes the procedure to go to parliament. I made up the information, which is very sensitive, you have to admit, so sometimes those seven or 15-day deadlines don't depend on me alone, they don't depend on those who deliver different information. So that 15 information went to the BiH Council of Ministers by the Security Ministry. It is important, however, that we respect procedures in these sensitive situations. There used to be, we had different experiences in BiH, when procedures are not respected, then we have a bigger problem. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-BA_2010-04-21-0.u34350	Thank you, Minister. I think it's a correct explanation. Let's move on. Replica, Reverend Slavko Jovičić. Here you go.
ParlaMint-BA_2010-04-21-0.u34351	Thank you, Mr. Chairman. Ladies and gentlemen, distinguished representatives and members of the BiH Council of Ministers. Replication to distinguished colleague Halid Genjac. I have repeatedly said here in the BiH Parliament that we are talking about the jurisdiction of the PSBiH House of Representatives, I never perform defensively to defend SNSD President Milorad Dodik now, but he is not a state man, so to speak. It has no function at BiH level. If we're going to divorce like that, please, please wait, so slowly, slowly, you can't all come in so loudly, and you don't know what I'm going to say, do you know in advance what I'm going to say, so if we go by that logic, then we're going to discuss here the statements of the cantonal ministers, their deputies. It is simply clear here, the initiative on people, members of the Presidency of this country is launched, and we are all calling for state lawmakers on behalf of the state to be something... You have, gentlemen of the SDA, your representatives at the National Assembly of the Republic of Slovenia, run the initiative there in the right place if you think President Dodik is doing what he's doing. I don't dispute what you think, nor do I know what you think, but you can't run there because you're in a coalition with the SNSD. So maybe (and here you can) because you're our partners. So, there are some people who do not have, simply or we can discuss their activities here, because they are nothing at ground level, in some positions, if you do not think that RS, headed by President Dodik, is much higher than BiH. If that's what you think, I'm signing right now, but it's not like that, I can't sign it when it's not like that. So, please, I've said it ten times here, not to defend Milorad Dodik, don't drag him in because this parliament is not competent to discuss his statements. Start the initiative in a relevant and right place – the National Assembly of the RS, so if you do not finish there, you know what the procedure is. Therefore, it is a legitimate requirement for inclusion. We lost an hour on that if we're going to put it on. We know the fate of what will happen to this, it won't go away and then let's cut the time short. We vote on this, it won't go away, it's over. It's all in advance. When someone says the first sentence, or when I look at what order it suggests, so when I know what club, I know right now that it won't go away, or I know it'll go away, what we're wasting our time here. So let's put this to a vote and see what happens. Thank you.
ParlaMint-BA_2010-04-21-0.u34352	Thank you. Dear Ambassador Mirko Okolić, replica. Here you go. 16
ParlaMint-BA_2010-04-21-0.u34353	Thank you, Mr. Chairman. My replica refers to Mr Ahmetović's exposure and, immediately, perhaps as a question. He's right when he said here that we asked the Council of Ministers for information, and that's the right thing to do, but the question is – why did we get information on the action "Lightness" by the Ministry of Security, not from the Council of Ministers of BiH, and why is it sent as it is? Something here is simply not in line with what we've come to realize and what we're doing right now. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-BA_2010-04-21-0.u34354	We need to be careful how we formulate our conclusions here. Anyway, we've got another one registered for discussion. Dear Ambassador Martin Raguž.
ParlaMint-BA_2010-04-21-0.u34355	I thank you, Mr. President. Here, before I say anything about Mr. Novaković's proposal to supplement the agenda, I would ask some of the distinguished fellow MPs not to exaggerate in praise to ministers, respected ministers only because (sometimes), apart from honorable exceptions, appear constantly at the sessions, which appear constantly at the meetings of the Council of Ministers of BiH, but to bring their grades, as the House that confirmed the council, in line with the results of the work of their ministries at whose head they are sitting. That's what I'm saying because of the integrity of this House. I believe that there is no condition, on behalf of the HDZ 1990, for this point to be put on the agenda today, without denying and respecting the initiative and the right of the MPs to open these issues, because it is often disputed here and the right of representatives and this House to open issues concerning the role of the BiH Presidency. So I will remind us all together of point 3 where the presidency's responsibilities are determined, except for the first one to talk about BiH's foreign policy, you have an e-point that says - that the Presidency is responsible for the implementation of Parliament's decisions. And we often underestimate our position in relation to the BiH presidency. And I think we need to come to a conclusion that a report is being submitted here or that we have one relevant initiative to discuss these important issues, not an ad hoc statement. I finally and do not know what statements from this initiative... should only, as representatives, receive quotes, statements, places, etc., that we can responsibly say whether they have damaged the country's reputation, the country's strategy, the platform established by the BiH Presidency. Certainly foreign policy priorities are, is the most important, relations with neighbours and should take care of what members of the BiH presidency and how they operate in that direction. And I would ask the Proposer to prepare this either for the initiative or for the preparation of it, and for a report to be prepared at the Foreign Affairs Commission, in agreement with the Bureau members, to carry out one relevant debate and to contribute that this, otherwise, hypertrophed situation in this country and society is not further collapsing our ad hoc moves. 17 Thank you.
ParlaMint-BA_2010-04-21-0.u34356	Thank you. Dear Ambassador Momčilo Novaković. Here you go.
ParlaMint-BA_2010-04-21-0.u34357	Thank you, Mr. Chairman. Here, given Mr. Raguž's final discussion, I'm going to ask for maybe two, three minutes just a break, to talk to the club presidents a little bit about this, possibly to rephrase this, if there's no mood today to have a debate about this, that maybe we're not going to vote on whether we're discussing it, but that it's just going as an initiative. But I would pray, so, two, three-minute breaks, with my colleagues Bahtić to answer to something that, I know, was not my intention in this initiative, in this initiative to discuss the contribution or failure of some people sitting in the BiH presidency at all, but if Mr Silajdžić gets the elections again, then we are certainly going to be hopeless. So if the program's a conflict, if the program's a conflict with everyone, then we're going to be hopeless. But here, I'd be begging, so a break of about five minutes to do a little talking to the club presidents, we don't even have to get up, I'm going to approach every club president and then I'm going to take my stand.
ParlaMint-BA_2010-04-21-0.u34358	Thank you. But here, with this proposal, you've caused three replicas, I think, and the proposal to take a break, and then with the proposal for an additional comment and there were three, I think it's a good solution to do it in parliamentary matters, as an initiative. This will come to the College, we will forward it to the Commission and (on the agenda) will discuss the initiative. I mean, I don't know if I need that break. If it's necessary, in front of the club you're looking for a break, I'll take a break, if it's a break.
ParlaMint-BA_2010-04-21-0.u34359	No microphone turned on
ParlaMint-BA_2010-04-21-0.u34360	So, at the request of the Mixed Club, a break of 10 minutes. [[PAUZA]] Comrades and fellow MPs, please continue to discuss the agenda. Dear Ambassador Novaković, outside the club, asked for a break. Do you need an explanation? Here you go. 18
ParlaMint-BA_2010-04-21-0.u34362	Thank you, Mr. Chairman. I've done with most of the club presidents those short consultations that I've said, and everyone agrees that the best thing would be if this point, for the sake of seriousness, were put on, in fact, transformed, means that we're simply not discussing it today, but that it would be an initiative that would be discussed in the usual way, through the commission phase. I accept, therefore, Mr Raguž's proposal and, in order not to report to the next point, practically, I am turning this proposal into an initiative and I would also ask colleagues who have applied for replicas, we will have a chance when we discuss this initiative, not to hold a further debate, if possible. If he's not, of course, I'm ready and we're in the middle of a debate. Thank you.
ParlaMint-BA_2010-04-21-0.u34363	Thank you. I would ask all MPs to consult with the chairman of the clubs in the future, before, to put it this way, an hour-and-a-half-hour debate, and to do what we just did at the beginning. So, let's agree to turn these points of the agenda right into initiatives. I understand, this proposal for a agenda item is, in fact, a proposal for an initiative that, in accordance with current practice, at the point of the agenda – parliamentary questions and answers, is forwarded to the Kolegijum, and to the Kolegiju further to the Commission. Right?
ParlaMint-BA_2010-04-21-0.u34364	No microphone turned on
ParlaMint-BA_2010-04-21-0.u34365	Thank you. Since we don't have a proposal, I'm concluding a debate on changes and changes to the agenda. Please be patient, just to read Agenda 1. The adoption of the minutes from the 75th session of the House of Representatives; 2. Parliament issues: (a) Comments on answers received, (b) New parliamentary issues; 3. The request of MP Niko Lozančić to consider the Amendments and Supplements Act in the Armed Forces of Bosnia and Herzegovina on an urgent procedure, in accordance with Article 127. Rules of Procedure (Law No 01-02-8-24/10, of 23.03.2010).; 4. The request of the BiH Council of Ministers for consideration of the Proposal for a Law on the adoption of the Law on Amendments and Supplements to the Law on the Court of Justice of Bosnia and Herzegovina following a 19th emergency procedure, in accordance with Article 127. Rules of Procedure (Law No: 01,02-02-5-29/10 of 15.04.2010.; 5. The request of the BiH Council of Ministers for consideration of the draft law on the adoption of the Law on Amendments and Supplements to the Law on the Prosecutor's Office of Bosnia and Herzegovina by emergency procedure, in accordance with Article 127. Rules of Procedure (Law No: 01,02-02-5-30/10 of 15.04.2010.; 6. Proposal for a Law on the Holidays of Bosnia and Herzegovina – Proposer: MP Denis Bećirović, Law No: 01-02-9-13/10, from 02.02.2010. (second reading); 7. Declaration by the House on the setting of a new deadline for the submission of the Constitutional Legal Commission Report on the Proposal for a Law on Copyright and Related Rights – Proposer: Council of Ministers of BiH, Act No: 01,02-02-2-5/10 of 18.01.2010; 8. Declaration by the House on the setting of a new deadline for the submission of the Constitutional Legal Commission Report on the Proposal for a Law on collective achievement of copyright and related rights – Proposer: Council of Ministers of BiH, Law No: 01,02-02-2-10 of 18.01.2010; 9. Proposal for a Law on Amendments and Supplements to the Law on the Financing of Political Parties – Proposers: Members Milorad Živković, Niko Lozančić and Šefik Džaferović, Act No: 01-02-4-25/10, of 24.03.2010. (first reading); 10. Annual report by the Central Bank of BiH for 2009 (material No: 01-16-1-511/10, from 01.04.2010).; 11. Financial reports from the Central Bank of BiH for 2009 (material No: 01-16-1-510/10, from 31.03.2010).; 12. Work and Business Report on Bosnia and Herzegovina's 2009 Radio-Television (submission: BiH Radio-Television Management Board, issue: 01,02-50-3-506/10, of 30.03.2010); 13. A report on the work of the BiH Ombudsman for the period from 01.01.2009 to 31.12.2009. (material number: 01,02-10-473/10, from 22.03.2010); 14. A report on the Agency's work on postal traffic in Bosnia and Herzegovina and the 2009 Financial Report (material No: 01,02-29-464/10), dated 19.03.2010.The Bible’s Viewpoint (Sambly), 2 / 15 Report on the work of the Permanent Commissions of the House of Representatives for 2009: • Constitutional Commissions, • Foreign Affairs Commission, • Foreign Trade and Customs Commission • Finance and Budget Commission • Transport and Communications Commission • Commission for Gender Equality; 16. Report on the work of the permanent joint committees of both homes for 2009: • Joint Commission on the Defence and Security of BiH, • Joint Commission on Oversight over the work of the BiH Intelligence and Security Agency, • Joint Commission on Economic Reform and Development, • Joint Commission on Administrative Affairs, 20 • Joint Commission on European Integration, • Joint Commission on Human Rights, Rights of the Child, Youth, Immigrants, Refugees, Asylum and Ethics; 17. Report on the work of the Research Commission for the verification of the alleged distribution of CEMT licences to the Ministry of Communications and Transport of BiH (material No: 01-50-293-8/10 of 07.04.2010).; 18. The appointment of five members of the Independent Commission to monitor the conditions of stay in institutions, conduct and respect for human rights of persons subject to criminal sanctions and other measures imposed in the BiH Court of Justice's criminal proceedings, foreign courts for the crimes provided for by the BiH Criminal Law or an international contract signed by BiH or another court in accordance with BiH law (proposed list of candidates of the Interim Joint Commission both at home since 30.03.2010).; 19. The appointment of the Executive Director of the Agency for the Prevention of Corruption and Co-ordination of the fight against corruption (at the conclusion of the House of Representatives from the 75th session, held on 07.04.2010).; 20. The appointment of three members from the House of Representatives to the Joint Commission of both homes to bring the text of the Labour Time Act into line, the mandatory vacations of mobile workers and road transport recording devices; 21. The appointment of three members from the House of Representatives to the Joint Commission of both homes in order to agree on the text of the Law on Amendments and Supplements to the Law on Foreign Direct Investment Policy in Bosnia and Herzegovina; 22. The appointment of three members from the House of Representatives to the Joint Commission of both homes in order to bring the text of the Law on Mine Action in Bosnia and Herzegovina into line; 23. The appointment of three members from the House of Representatives to the Joint Commission of both homes in order to agree on the text of the Law on Amendments and Supplements to the Law on the Fundamentals of Traffic on Roads in Bosnia and Herzegovina; 24. The appointment of a member of the Ad hoc Committee for the Preparation of Amendments and Supplements as well as the consolidated text of the Rules of Procedure of the Parliamentary House of BiH (instead of the deceased Joza Križanović); 25. Resolution on the recognition of genocide against Armenians – Proposers: SNSD Club MPs, issue: 01-02-12-532/10 since 07.04.2010; 26. Giving consent to ratification: (a) Agreement on financing between Bosnia and Herzegovina and the Commission of the European Communities in relation to multi-user programme 2B, for projects requiring a financing agreement under the 2008 Instrument for Pre-accession Assistance, (b) of the Agreement between Bosnia and Herzegovina and the Republic of Croatia amending the Agreement on mutual enforcement of judicial decisions in criminal matters. We're moving on to the realization of the agenda. Point one, 21 Ad.1. The adoption of the minutes from the 75th session You've got the record. Any objections? Dear Ambassador Denis Bećirović. Here you go.
ParlaMint-BA_2010-04-21-0.u34367	Honored chairman, distinguished colleagues and colleagues, respected present. On page 6. The minutes, where this section is contained on parliamentary issues raised at the last session, I would ask that parliamentary questions be entered in the minutes as they were entered at all previous meetings of the House of Representatives. So here, on page 6, specifically when it comes to the question that I asked, the question is said, but it's not at all indicated who it was asked, and I've asked this question to very important addresses, and I've pointed out exactly who I'm asking the question to. Therefore, I would only ask that in this record, therefore, before the adoption, it should be specified exactly as I did in the written form of these questions, to which addresses are all referred to this question and to whom. Thank you.
ParlaMint-BA_2010-04-21-0.u34368	Looking at this record, the immediate question behind was asked by Ambassador Adem Huskić, who appointed and on the basis of which rules of the Management Board and the management of public enterprises... BiH has not been mentioned who the issue is addressed to. Obviously, the way the record is written is practically identical and it's not just your question defined, but everyone who defined the question. Now, all we can agree on is that the record contains and to whom this question is addressed, but for all. Here's Ambassador Denis Bećirović. Here you go.
ParlaMint-BA_2010-04-21-0.u34369	Well, let's not get too complicated, then, when it comes to this record. Let’s say, if you look at the minutes from the previous session of 74, 73, etc., the questions were asked, i.e., embedded in this report exactly as I said earlier. So I think it's a good practice and there's no reason why we shouldn't be counting that tax. I think the record will be clearer and more complete that way.
ParlaMint-BA_2010-04-21-0.u34370	Thank you. I think the adjustments are in place and the record-writing service will coordinate the way the minutes were written from the previous session and appreciate what you were talking about. Are there any more reported? There isn't. I'm closing the discussion. We're going to, uh, 22 Ad. 2. Parliament Questions (a) Comments on answers received At today's session, the answers to the questions asked were: Rifat Dolić, Lejla Klokić, Željko Kuzmanović of the Council of Ministers, asked at the 71st session of the House, Dokić Okolić of the Ministry of Security, asked at the 73nd session, Slavko Matić of the Ministry of Security, asked at the 73rd session, Remzija Kadrić of the Government of RS, asked questions at the 72nd session and the Council of Ministers of BiH asked questions at the 71st session, Denis Bećirović of the Ministry of Justice, asked at the 72nd session and the Council of Ministers of BiH to ask questions at the 72nd session (5 replies), Azra Alajbegović of the Ministry of Health and Social Protection of the Ministry of Health, the Federal Ministry of Health, asked at the Branko session and the Council of Ministers of BiH, asked the question of Ministers of Ministers of BiH, at the 7nd session of BiH's and the meeting of BiH's meeting of 723. Any comment on the question? Dear Ambassador Azra Alajbegović. Here you go.
ParlaMint-BA_2010-04-21-0.u34372	Dear Chairman, colleagues and colleagues, ladies and gentlemen. I would like to comment on the question that has been raised – are the contraceptives on the essential drug lists and, if they are, which are contraceptives and which are not and when will they be? I asked the question on March 10th, and in some ways I would like to thank the health ministers, colleagues Safet Omerović and Rank Škrbić for their quick response. The answer actually shows that there is a discriminatory relationship between the right to contraceptives in one entity and another, so I would, in fact, by this answer today, set up one initiative, if you allow. It's very short, two minutes, so I don't pick up later.
ParlaMint-BA_2010-04-21-0.u34373	You got it.
ParlaMint-BA_2010-04-21-0.u34374	Thank you very much. So, the initiative would refer to the Council of Ministers of BiH, which is actually addressed to the Professional Council of the Medicines and Medical Devices Agency, which reads – On the essential list of medicines prescribed and issued on the burden of compulsory health insurance and medicines minimum in hospital health care, put contraceptives for the whole of BiH. 23 I think that, in some ways, we would significantly help the project to improve the health of the population and development, in some ways reduce the rates of an entire set of epidemiological parameters related to the population, which is, better birth rates and especially related to intentional abortions and a whole series of problems resulting from such a thing. And I think the goal would be, in fact, an adequate family planning. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-BA_2010-04-21-0.u34375	Thank you. Dear Ambassador Mirko Okolić. Here you go.
ParlaMint-BA_2010-04-21-0.u34376	Thank you, Mr. Chairman. I asked the Department of Security two questions. One question I got to comment on, and another question I didn't get an answer at all, and it's as if I got it, because it's in their memo. The first question – why in the Ministry of Security's 2010 work programme there are no... persons who carry programme activities from the order of the Serbian people, etc. I got the next answer I'm commenting on. In my view, it is not true that the programme operators of the Ministry of Security's 2010 programme activities are the entire management staff of the Ministry in which they are participating state officials from the order of the Serbian people, and the accent has been placed on the assistants of the Minister of Security, i.e. their sectors as carriers. Evidence – from the 2010 work programme of the Ministry of Security clearly shows that the operators of the activities are responsible persons, mostly Bošnjak and Hrvat, for certain areas, chronologically observed by..., I will now state it, i.e., to comment. I am not going to name people or persons who are at the head of these activities, because they are correct because they are not guilty, someone else is to blame that there is no percentage representation of all the peoples here and because we have sought without any great descriptions, but specifically. So, when the area of the law - of the 5 responsible persons, there are none Srbin. Sublegal acts – of the 6 possible, none have Srbin. International contracts -- of 2 possible, there are no Srbin. European integration – of 8 possible, there are no Srbin. Thematic part – of the 7 possible, there are no Srbin. Organizational development of the Ministry and the management of key partner institutions – of 7 possible, 1 is a Srbin but is not a carrier of activity, but is only in this activity. So I didn't get the right answer, or, in my opinion, the correct answer and the detailed answer, and when I comment on this second question that I didn't get, then I'll make a final proposal. 24 On my second question – on the national balance of state officials at the Ministry of Security... of the head of the department and other civil servants,... (not at all gave an answer), nor was I given any other way to know when and how this key issue will be resolved in the BiH Ministry of Security. That is why I ask that my parliamentary question to the Ministry of Security, identically as I asked at the 73rd session, be re-delivered to the Ministry of Security and that these remarks I have now commented on, or comments on, to answer the first question and to answer another question for which I have not received an answer. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-BA_2010-04-21-0.u34377	Thank you. First Deputy Chairman, Mr. Niko Lozančić. Here you go.
ParlaMint-BA_2010-04-21-0.u34378	Thank you, Mr. President. Ladies and gentlemen, MPs, respected members of the Council of Ministers of BiH, honored guests. I asked the High Judicial and Prosecutorial Council, offered a problem in the process of registering one of the business entities in BiH and concerning the problem of registration of Krisaja 1884 from Zavidovic. I am using the opportunity to thank the High Judicial and Prosecutorial Council for the quick answer to this question, on the one hand, for the very quality of the answer to this question. This response shows that the legislation which defines the registration of business entities is not at all encouraging potential investors, or that, instead of making it easier for them, it makes it difficult for them. You've got the answer, so I'll just have one piece to comment on. You have seen that the court responsible on three occasions made a decision on the registration, and that the Court of Appeal on three occasions returned to the Court of First Instance to re-demand the case and apparently that there are restrictions on the number of cases, so that it can last indefinitely. You can figure out how encouraging this is for potential investors in BiH and what it would mean... how encouraging it is for them to invest, when in the registration process they can have this long-term process. The continuation of this issue is particularly valuable, so to speak, and I am using the opportunity to thank the High Court and the Prosecutor's Council once again, which, in addition to the tax collection, gave a broader comment on how the High Judicial and Prosecutorial Council has also concluded that the existing regulations do not provide a sufficiently secure and efficient framework for the rapid and efficient registration of business entities. I will read one part of this response in which it is said – however, we believe that it is necessary to launch an initiative as soon as possible to form a working group consisting of the registered judges from BiH, representatives of the High Judicial and Prosecutorial Council, representatives of the entity ministries of justice, the Justice Commission of the Brcko District and the other 25 relevant institutions. The task of this working group would be to define in real time all problems, as well as barriers, in the process of registering business entities. Furthermore, this working group should draw up amendments and additions to relevant laws to speed up the registration of business entities. We suggest, as one of the modes, that the BiH Parliamentary Assembly proposes to the BiH Ministry of Justice that, within the framework of the Action Plan for Implementation of the Strategy for the Reform of the Justice Sector, a functional working group, column IV – Support for economic growth, BiH plan and implement this activity. The High Judicial and Prosecutorial Council has its own representative in this functional group. So I use the opportunity now to through this response, here, I initiate, I demand that this response be delivered to the Ministry of Justice and I ask that the Ministry of Justice, in accordance with the recommendations and the need to enter into the process of forming this inter-resor working group in order to remove all shortcomings in the business registration process. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-BA_2010-04-21-0.u34379	Thank you. Dear Ambassador Remzija Kadrić. Here you go.
ParlaMint-BA_2010-04-21-0.u34380	I thank you, Chairman. To my question – whether and how much legal protection proceedings have been initiated so far for the return of property, property rights in accordance with aneks g to the sporazum on the Sucession of the former SFRY, I have received a rather insufficient, superficial answer. But from that answer, to conclude that there is really little work to be done on the implementation of this agreement on the succession of the former SFRY. Just to point out, here, in one part – when it comes to possible claims from the Federation of BiH, in accordance with Annex G of this Agreement, it is said, among other things, that there are data on more than 500 properties worth about 800 million KM in the Privatisation Agency Register. So, only possible claims from the Federation of BiH, when it comes to the implementation of this Annex G, therefore, are one huge asset and, therefore, there really is much more work to be done here for the implementation of this agreement. I had one initiative, which was adopted at the Joint Session of both homes, to consider, to discuss this implementation of the agreement as a whole, the Agreement on the Sucession of the former SFRY. Therefore, I expect that if a joint session occurs, this issue of the agreement should be discussed in a more serious way in the next session because it really is of great value located outside BiH, and this property should be recovered in a certain way that the BiH state is benefiting. When it comes to this second question, which I have received the answer to, and this is the question, I asked – is the project cijevni I and II respected all the necessary procedures provided for by the Law on concessions in the RS and other regulations and whether the project envisaged the removal of the trough on the left side of the Bosnia River, on agricultural land... The Bošnjak in the local community of Kotorsko, Doboj Municipality. 26 I've got one answer. I thank you for having received a response within the time limit, which states that all the procedures provided for in the Law on concessions and other regulations have been respected. However, representatives of the Kotorsko local community claim that all the procedures are not fully respected, such attitudes are in favour, and this report, which ultimately states that the company's representative who led the project on the issue from Norway, has been said to have shown readiness in contacts with locals, says the designer, in order to find an optimal solution and through certain changes of the project solution in technical possibilities, to reduce the exemption of quality agricultural land. It is thought of the agricultural land of Bošnjak who object. I expect the ministry, from the RS government, to really find quality solutions to the satisfaction of the citizens of the Kotorska local community, so that there are no possible problems in that part. Thank you.
ParlaMint-BA_2010-04-21-0.u34381	Dear Ambassador Denis Bećirović. Here you go.
ParlaMint-BA_2010-04-21-0.u34382	At the 72nd session of the House of Representatives, I asked all ministers in the Council of Ministers – how many ministries, whose head they were planning to pass the law from January 2007 to February 1st 2010, and how exactly they passed the law at the BiH Council of Ministers' meetings, according to the plan. Most BiH ministers have provided answers to the issue, however, have provided incomplete answers. Namely, they only made a list of laws and did not answer the precise question -- how much they planned, and how much was adopted at the BiH Council of Ministers' meetings. In doing so, I would like to emphasise one fact that the two ministers provided precise answers to the questions asked. It is the Minister of Civil Affairs, Mr Nović and Minister of Justice, Mr Čolak, who responded exactly as requested. However, since others have not done so, I want to renew these questions and, therefore, get the correct answer, as requested. Thank you.
ParlaMint-BA_2010-04-21-0.u34383	Thank you. Dear Ambassador Adem Huskić. Here you go.
ParlaMint-BA_2010-04-21-0.u34384	Thank you, Mr. Chairman. Members of the BiH Council of Ministers, respected colleagues, colleagues, colleagues and guests. I have a question that concerns you. 27 _________(?) Is that a new question? New question, yes. _________(?) These are the comments to the answers.
ParlaMint-BA_2010-04-21-0.u34387	...yet. I know, but I can't even see you having a comment. Dear MP, Šefik Džaferović. Here you go.
ParlaMint-BA_2010-04-21-0.u34388	Mr. Chairman. I got an answer for the last session, but I wasn't at the beginning of the session, and now I want to say what I have to say about the answer to that question from the last session. At first I wasn't, you know I wasn't there. And it's this little atypical situation, I'm not in your papers, and I have the right to talk, is it? It is, therefore, about the answer to my question concerning organised collection of hard waste and the management of hard waste in BiH, an important issue is. I have received the answer that something is being done with the help of the European Commission, regional dumps are forming, something is trying to do in BiH on that plan. I'm satisfied with the answer to the question in that part. I'm not happy with the answer to the question, and I'm not happy with the state we have today, when it comes to cleanliness. I specifically point to the riverbeds and ask if anyone in the BiH Council of Ministers will at least run some coordination in the country, get down to the riverbanks nicely, to clean up those plastic bags. So we're not gonna watch it for the next 100 years here. I'm interested in that answer. And what are we going to do that doesn't happen anymore when they're flooded, that the garbage isn't thrown into the river, until this real way of collecting and managing solid waste is organized in the country? Shall we look at the banks of the river? This is a shame, a terrible thing. I am ashamed to travel through BiH, the banks of the river, especially this when there are no leaves, until the leaves have yet to appear. It's a terrible thing. I need an answer to that.
ParlaMint-BA_2010-04-21-0.u34389	We don't have any more requests to comment on any more questions. 28 c) New Parliament Questions We have reports of new questions. Let's get this straight. Dear Ambassador Sadik Bahtić. Here you go.
ParlaMint-BA_2010-04-21-0.u34391	Thank you. I have received one piece of information about the crimes committed in Agro-Comer velik Kladuša, so my question for SIPA – Department of Economic Crime – What have you done so far and what will you do about alienating Agrokomerac-Comer's assets, the numerous criminal charges by former and current leaders of Agrokomerac-Comer? It's the property of Agrokomerac, tens of millions of KMs, who are incinerated and robbed in front of the eyes of the public and the employees who are on strike these days. We know it's a big asset here, according to the list, we heard in the media the other night, before the war was worth 2 billion assets, now there's a debt of AgrokomeracComerca 180 million KM. I think someone should answer because that debt is growing every day, and the property is being robbed. Anything that can be carried alive is carried away. I ask that this information from the quote be verified and investigated because it is our obligation to protect Agro-Comertz because those workers there are not guilty, individuals are rich, and Agro-Comerc is being Agrokomerc. Thank you.
ParlaMint-BA_2010-04-21-0.u34392	I thank the esteemed representative of Bahtić. The next is Honorable Representative Adem Huskić.
ParlaMint-BA_2010-04-21-0.u34393	Thank you. So, I have a question for the Federation of BiH inspection bodies, the Central Bosnian Canton and the government of the municipality of Bugojno, and the issue is from a domain that has been troubled, in some ways, by a direct colleague Džaferović. The question is: What measures are you taking or intending to take in order to recover a municipal waste dump that threatens to infect and poison, as an unbearably smell that comes from that dump is spreading in certain periods? Thank you.
ParlaMint-BA_2010-04-21-0.u34394	I thank the esteemed representative Huskić. Next is Honorable Representative Slavko Jovičić. 29
ParlaMint-BA_2010-04-21-0.u34395	Thank you, Mr. Chairman. I, as part of the parliamentary issues, am launching an initiative to prepare for the next session full information on the resources that are enormous, which I think is being announced by the media, which is being paid to people who have been released by the BiH Court of Justice verdicts, who have been in custody for a year and two, and now this state has to pay them one-off funds which will damage BiH's budget for several, I cannot bid, so I will ask for accurate information whether it is hundreds of thousands of marks, millions of marks or tens of millions of marks. In this initiative, I am also asking that the High Court and Prosecutorial Council deliver these and your prosecutors who are proud of their profession, whose cases and indictments have fallen to the Court of Justice of BiH, do they deserve to remain in those positions if they will continue to harm BiH, which must extract huge funds for, first illegal detention and detention, then inflicting mental pain, etc. And that's another thing, but I'm saying, you're going to get a written application in writing for the next session of this agenda, but today I'm presenting it as an initiative in accordance with Article 8. The Rules of Procedure of the PSBiH House of Representatives, while everything seems to be prepared for full information from the High Court and Prosecutor's Council, in particular the Prosecutor's Office of BiH and the Court and, of course, our Ministry of Finance – how much funds have been damaged by the Budget of BiH. And we were witnesses to the moaning when we adopted this particular budget, they don't have a hot meal, they don't have to drive, they don't have to do this, and nobody asks the question of what they did. As part of that, of course, and that, of course, there will be, when this item of the agenda comes into discussion, to end the hack from neighbouring countries to certain politicians and officials who are causing enormous damage, including this parliament. Excuse me, Mr. Chairman, which I will mention as a creamworth, to break up with these hicks and to have the BiH Prosecutor's Office and the BiH Court come out with information and say whether they are able, or any institution, to protect the people of this country who are, not in positions, but from an ordinary man, but by circumstances, here I have taken this, because of Parliament and the dignity of the people sitting here. So in writing you will get a proposal from this initiative to prepare complete information for the next session so that we can conduct a debate and say who is to blame. Whoever damaged this country for millions of marks we have to pay out of the budget, no one planned them and how we're going to make up for those funds that we have to make up for from somewhere, and we have to pay people. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-BA_2010-04-21-0.u34396	I would like to thank the esteemed representative Jovičić. The next is a respected representative, Željko Kuzmanović.
ParlaMint-BA_2010-04-21-0.u34397	Thank you, Mr. Chairman. My question is to the BiH Presidency, the Foreign Ministry, as the most responsible institutions in creating and leading foreign policy, and I ask for 30 answers to the question – did these two institutions consider and take a position on the possible introduction of sanctions to Iran? Explanation: Given the expressed lobbying in international circles, which has been increasingly open over the past few weeks, and as regards the possible introduction of sanctions to Iran over their nuclear weapons policy and the role of BiH as a member of the UN Security Council in making that decision, I think these two institutions should get to know the public about BiH's position on the issue. Thank you.
ParlaMint-BA_2010-04-21-0.u34398	I thank the honourable representative Kuzmanović. The next is the distinguished representative Lazar Prodanović.
ParlaMint-BA_2010-04-21-0.u34399	Dear Mr. Vice-President, distinguished colleagues and fellow Members, guests. My question is addressed to the Council of Ministers of BiH, i.e. the Ministry of Civil Affairs, to the competent sector, to provide me with information relating to this – How many in BiH last year, in stationary health institutions, therefore, and secondary and tertiary levels, in hospitals and clinics, were performed medically in accordance with entity health protection laws? Namely, I am encouraged by a very frequent public controversy which, in some ways, disinforms the Bosnian Herzegovic public about the causes of death in a number of cases. I think this is a particular problem that in BiH is almost insignificant number of autopsyes, at least what I am... indicated for medical reasons, therefore, which are not a judicial-medical character, and that the only possible way to deny something is to actually have a competent autopsy by pathologists, i.e. the Institute of Pathology in competent hospitals, so that there is no often word of death that the cause of death is an unorganised system, that the cause of death is the guilt of management or even state leadership. I think we have to deal with this, so we should say what number is in accordance with the law. It is known, therefore, that if a person who is hospitalized in stationary health institutions dies immediately after a 24-hour period, it is necessary to perform a medical autopsy. So it's a legal obligation. Unfortunately, I think these are very rare cases, as are very rare cases of debate based on the expertise done on the causes of death. I think this is a very important issue, because we are often exposed in the media to different qualifications, causes, disorganization of everything that is present, and we should essentially find this. And to find the answer, we'd have to know what the number is, say, just last year, done these autopsyes for medical reasons. Thank you. 31
ParlaMint-BA_2010-04-21-0.u34400	I'd like to thank the esteemed representative of Prodanović. The next is Remzija Kadrić, a respected representative.
ParlaMint-BA_2010-04-21-0.u34401	I thank you, Chairman. I have one question that I am referring to the Government of the Republic of Slovenia, which is – Why is the Government of the Republic of Slovenia pressuring the BiH Constitutional Court in the case of Alijagić, subject number: Ap 775/08 Appelants Salih and Muamer Alijagić? Reason: In public it is known that Salih and Muamer Alijagić of Trebinj have been fighting legal action for more than 13 years to compensate for the multimillion-dollar material damage caused by the robbery of their property in Trebinj. In connection with this, in May 2009, the BiH Constitutional Court confirmed that there is a violation of the right to a fair trial of applicants and the right to compensation for property. However, the RS government holds special sessions to discuss the Alijagić case, requiring the BiH Constitutional Court to review the said decision, and beyond all procedures in the BiH Constitutional Court's handling in such cases. Thank you.
ParlaMint-BA_2010-04-21-0.u34402	I thank the honourable representative Kadrić. The next is a respected representative, Mehmed Suljkanović.
ParlaMint-BA_2010-04-21-0.u34403	Dear Chairman, esteemed colleagues and colleagues, distinguished guests. I have a short question for the Council of Ministers – When will the implementation of Article 29a) of the Law on Amendments and Supplements to the Law on the Ministrys and other bodies of the BiH Administration, "The Official Messenger of BiH" No 105/09 of 30.12.2009? In an explanation, I will only remind myself of the mentioned Article 29.a) which reads – By way of entry into force of this law, the BiH Archives will, in accordance with the Law on Archival Construction and the Archives of BiH, "The Official Messenger of BiH" No. 16/01, take over the archives and documentation of the Board of Geodetic and Property Affairs, and the decision on the status of equipment, inventory, means of work, official premises and employees in the administration will bring the BiH Council of Ministers to the proposal of the Ministry of Civil Affairs within 60 days of the date of entry into force of this law. The law came into force 07.0.2010. (?) the implementation of that member has not yet been carried out. As it comes to people, equipment and other things, I think it needs to be speeded up. Thank you. 32
ParlaMint-BA_2010-04-21-0.u34404	I would like to thank the esteemed representative Suljkanović. The next is distinguished representative Husein Nanić.
ParlaMint-BA_2010-04-21-0.u34405	I thank you, Chairman. Comrades, fellow MPs, guests. I would like to ask two questions to the BiH Council of Ministers today, and this is about the following. So, at the 42nd session of this house, held in December 2008, I asked the question and asked for information on the opening of small-scale crossings in the municipalities of Cazin, Bihac and Velika Kladuma. The same question was answered in April of next year, and the response said the State Commission for Integrated Border Management formed a working group and the working group reached three conclusions and proposed to the commission to implement those conclusions. (That, therefore, these proposals for conclusions are done), the border police are proposing to open the border crossing which is mentioned to take all activities in relation to obtaining local permits, to propose to the Republic of Croatia the holding of expert groups' meetings for preparatory actions and to hold a meeting of a mixed inter-state commission until May last year to determine the date of opening of small-scale crossings. For the above conclusions, the implementation of these conclusions is in charge of the Border Protection Sector, and public order to monitor and coordinate activities. I ask the BiH Council of Ministers and ask for information on the situation in the realization of these conclusions, given that information from the field is that nothing has been done about the opening of these crossings. And another question, too, to the BiH Council of Ministers. Given that this House has adopted the plan of measures needed to address the problems of BiH citizens who have been employed in the Republic of Croatia and this problem has been dragging through this home for 5 years, and the reminders are that some 15,000 of our citizens who have been left completely without the right to work relations and rights arising from working relations are working. I request a reply and information from the Council of Ministers on the implementation of the plan of measures with special reference to the measures of the Ministry of Foreign Affairs which provides for an initiative to hold a meeting of inter-state expert groups in charge of addressing certain open issues and which (?) It would be planned to include this topic in the proposal for talks during the visit of the Croatian President, then Mr Mesić, and now, here we have almost had a visit to the newly elected president of the Republic of Croatia, and a measure by the Ministry of Civil Affairs in connection with the development of the BiH-Croatia Agreement on the resolution of the issue of dismissed workers. Given the new climate and messages from neighbouring countries, in particular the Republic of Croatia, I think these problems should be updated and sought to address these problems. Thank you.
ParlaMint-BA_2010-04-21-0.u34406	I thank the esteemed representative, Nanić. Next is Honorable Representative Mirko Okolić. 33
ParlaMint-BA_2010-04-21-0.u34407	Thank you, Mr. Chairman. The BiH Parliamentary Assembly's House of Representatives, at the 68th session, since 30.12.2009, adopted a proposal for a conclusion under number 01511568/09, i.e. under 0124120/09 of 30.12.2009 -- the Council of Ministers of BiH is tasked with delivering contracts to the Parliamentary Assembly of BiH within 30 days of the current contracts. I ask the College, did they receive the answers, or contracts from the Council of Ministers of BiH, and if they are not to forward my parliamentary question to the Council of Ministers of BiH asking for answers – why, even though the deadline was 30 days, that is, it expired 30.01.2010, we did not get the answer according to the adopted conclusion? I – When will they deliver the aforementioned contracts according to the adopted conclusion? Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-BA_2010-04-21-0.u34408	I thank the esteemed representative of Okolić. Next is Honorable Representative Momčilo Novaković.
ParlaMint-BA_2010-04-21-0.u34409	Thank you, Mr. Chairman. I ask the question of the Office for the Audit of Institutions and the Council of Ministers of BiH, which is – Why did the Office for the Audit of BiH institutions not move into the new space it was assigned and how much was paid for renting the current premises after the conditions for moving? Namely, the BiH Institutions Audit Office has received a brand-new space in a building that some institutions have already moved into. However, this office, or office, did not move into new rooms, but today sits in the rooms for which a very serious lease is paid. The fact is that here is the question of then and the moral credibility of the very institution that just happens should be disclosed through audit reports, criticised and asked not to happen, and here, I don't know whose will or whose wish, it was in that situation. I'm asking this question, of course, and I want an oral answer I can't get, so according to the Rules of Procedure, I'm looking for a written answer to this question. Thank you.
ParlaMint-BA_2010-04-21-0.u34410	I would like to thank Reverend Novaković. Next is Honorable Representative Rifat Dolić.
ParlaMint-BA_2010-04-21-0.u34411	Gentlemen chairman, colleagues and colleagues, distinguished guests. 34 I have two parliamentary questions. The first question is the chairman of the BiH Council of Ministers and the Prime Minister of the Federation of BiH – What do you intend to do as a final act ahead of the loss of Agrokomerac's assets in Belgrade due to the complete indolence and irresponsibility of the BiH and the Federation of BiH institutions and the government, as head of the majority capital in AgroComerc? I am asking this question probably for the last time before the final stage in which the privatisation of Agrokomerac's Agrokomerac in Belgrade was worth more than 3m euros and, realistically, much more, and after the BiH government government, the Federation of BiH, as head of the majority capital in Agrokommerc, did nothing to save it. I remind BiH's home and public that the government of the Republic of Serbia on three occasions extended the deadline for resolving the status of BiH's assets and businesses in Serbia and that BiH's institutions and in the case of Agrokomerac's assets, (the government of the Federation of BiH), and completely ignored the deadlines after which the Serbian government entered the privatisation procedure. I also remind myself that I have personally personally warned in this house about these deadlines and appealed to take action to rescue BiH's property in Serbia, especially to save Agrokomerac's assets because I know the case. With the expression of bitterness, I would like to say that I am a witness that workers of AgrokomeracComerca Belgrade, otherwise Serbian citizens, have written and verbally urged them to be helped to save Agro-Comerac's assets in Belgrade. Agrommerca Belgrade's director has been asking for 6 months to sign an agreement on the regulation of the relations between Agrommerc Velika Kladuša and Agrommerca Belgrade, which is purely formal and which is delaying the sale of Agrommerc's assets in Belgrade. When there was no response to the proposed agreement, I witnessed requests from Belgrade sent to AgrokomeracComerc and the Federation of BiH government to write a single sentence that would delay the sale of AgrokomeracComerc property in Belgrade, which would read – Agro-Comerc Belgrade's Social Enterprise is an integral part of Agro-Comerc DD Velika Kladouda's system and cannot be the subject of privatisation in Serbia. The government of the Federation of BiH and Agrokomerac's management was hard to write this one single sentence, and then it is normal that, after all, Agrokomerc Belgrade two days ago, or more precisely 19.04, was informed by Serbia's Privatisation Agency that the assets of Agrokomerac were on the privatisation line. I simply have no comment on all this more than shame. The second question is a question to the director of the Federation of BiH Banking Agency, for the sake of time, I will only ask the question – What can you do to stop the privatisation of the UNA Bank in Bihaq and what can be rationally taken by the Government of the UN-Sancant or the Government of the Federation of BiH in the direction of interruption of the temporary administration in this bank, at its consolidation and its function as a financial service for the economy and the public sector and the population of the UN-Sancanton. An explanation in writing. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-BA_2010-04-21-0.u34412	I thank the honourable representative, Dolić. The next is distinguished representative Bajazit Jašarević.
ParlaMint-BA_2010-04-21-0.u34413	Your Honor, Mr. Chairman, ladies and gentlemen of the Parliament. 35 I ask two questions. The first question to the BiH Food Safety Agency – When will the meat and meat processing Regulation be adopted, at which stage is the adoption of this Regulation, is the adoption of this Regulation deliberately slowed down under the pressure of certain interest circles? Reason: It is not possible to regulate the market more seriously with meat and meat processing without the adoption of a meat and meat processing Regulation and in order to raise the level of health regularity of one of the most important foods in human consumption. Second question to the Ministry of Foreign Trade and Economic Relations – What will the Ministry do to make meat importers more responsible for carrying out their obligation to buy live cattle from domestic farmers in the case of meat imports? Reason: Due to the reduction of customs duties on meat imports, meat processors, without carrying out the obligation to buy live cattle from domestic farmers, more and more imports of meat are inexplicably low prices, unless the meat is border quality. Thank you.
ParlaMint-BA_2010-04-21-0.u34414	I thank the esteemed representative Jašarević. The next is the distinguished representative Azra Alajbegović.
ParlaMint-BA_2010-04-21-0.u34415	Dear Chairman, colleagues and colleagues, ladies and gentlemen. I would, in fact, like to ask the Council of Ministers of BiH, i.e. the Ministry of Justice to deliver to me the full legislative regulations of pathological, judicial and medical autopsy in terms of the possibility of their implementation, with a special emphasis on the possibility of banning pathological autopsy. What Dr. Prodanović Lazar asked as a question, (in fact, in some way) of the level of health care of citizens in one country, means, the number of pathological autopsy carried out in medical institutions and the coincidence of diagnosis found on pathological autopsy and diagnosis with which these persons died and fired from hospitals and clinics, is actually a quality parameter for the health care of the population. However, as someone who works in an institution where mortality is relatively high due to the specific pathology and disease being treated in that institution, I responsibly argue that in fact this small number of autopsy and inability to perform this analysis is the result of a legal arrangement in a way that the relatives of the deceased are able to ban the pathological autopsy even in situations where it has not been more than 24 hours after death, so that in fact the only autopsy that cannot be banned is a judicial and medical autopsy, and it is an autopsy that is actually sought and initiated by prosecutors when suspected of violent deaths. I think the reason, in fact, is in one of these complex procedures and at the same time in the complexity of health care legislation and (general health care, establishment). In this way, I believe that this legal procedure, which will be delivered to us, and at the same time regarding this issue of colleagues of Lazar Prodanović, we could in some way have some information so that we could possibly make 36 certain amendments to the law, of course, and see what the level of the legislative authority in which these amendments should be made. Thank you.
ParlaMint-BA_2010-04-21-0.u34416	I thank the esteemed representative Alajbegović. We don't have any more applications to ask counsel questions. I'm closing this agenda. We're going to the third item of the agenda, Ad. 3. A request by MP Niko Lozančić to consider the Amendments and Supplements Act in the Armed Forces of BiH on an urgent procedure, in accordance with Article 127. Rules of Procedure MP Niko Lozančić submitted the Law to the parliamentary procedure on 23.03.2010 with a request for an urgent legislative procedure. We're deciding on a request for an emergency procedure. I'm opening a debate.
ParlaMint-BA_2010-04-21-0.u34418	Here, I apologize, Mr. Huskić, the promoter wants a few preliminary notes. Here you go, Mr. Lozančić.
ParlaMint-BA_2010-04-21-0.u34419	Thank you. Dear colleagues and fellow MPs. You have before you a request for an emergency procedure to consider the Amendments and Supplements to the Law on Amendments and Supplements to the Service Act in the Armed Forces of BiH. We have opened the debate on this law, in a certain way, on this subject, on the basis of a proposal from a respected counterpart, Sefer Halilović. And, here, for reasons that are less known, we came into a situation, and also judging, here, myself, that the solutions offered are not complete and would not ensure the truth, I believe, and the correct intention of an esteemed colleague, I have proposed this law with the intention of trying in one correct way to resolve this very sensitive issue. As in the procedure, meanwhile, there were two laws with the same matter, so to speak, the College concluded that the possibility for us to agree, and Honorable counterpart Halilović withdrew his proposal, so today, in the procedure, it is a request for the examination of this law by a hasty procedure. Before I give you a brief statement of the reasons for the hasty procedure, I will ask you honestly to make a statement about the Law today, that is, to make a statement about the hasty procedure. I personally do not accept any form of shortened or some sort of regular procedure. I think these questions are clear enough, I don't think there's too many complex questions. I think we all know what kind of attitude we have about this, and I think we can really decide today on this issue. Apparently, there are a lot of articles that are being changed, but it is essentially three four issues being resolved, so that it also meets that business requirement for simple legal proposals. They're simple legal-technical. They're essentially very sensitive nature, and that's what I've already said. And that's why I don't think it's correct in any way to make it, let's say this way that you don't get me wrong, any tape of this law through some sort of consent procedure, overvote, etc. This is not a question for any of us in this hall or outside this hall to collect any cheap political points. I think that this issue really needs to be determined in line with our beliefs about the correctness, i.e. the failure of the solutions offered. The reasons for the law being passed are already listed in the bill itself, and I don't think there's any need for me to repeat them specifically. You also have the explanation of the proposal in the proposal so I don't want to take your precious time. I'm just going to say a few things that aren't in this written explanation, which I think is very good to know before deciding on this request, and I hope after the law itself. By firing some 2,200 soldiers over 35 years of age, and the defence ministry's plan envisioned by the end of 2010, it would certainly be at risk of fighting the preparedness of the BiH Armed Forces. The reason for such a claim is reflected in the fact that an existing group of armed forces is engaged primarily in ensuring the locations of the BiH Ministry of Defence and Armed Forces, in a way that almost 50% of the soldiers are on site insurance, while the other 50% of the soldiers are on leave after the service. This is without the intended reduction, so training, as a basic task of soldiers in peace, is almost not carried out. This way of engaging the Armed Forces of BiH is due to the fact that the number of locations provided by the Armed Forces in BiH is not reduced, and this overload by the insurance service will be even more pronounced if this category of soldiers is not translated into reserve composition and schedules at the service of military facilities as foreseen by these amendments to the existing Law on the Service of the Armed Forces. An additional reason to worry about the threat of armed forces' preparedness may also be the fact that in exchange for these 2,200 soldiers scheduled for release in 2010. (years, with young soldiers it takes a period of at least two and perhaps three years). It is known that the Centre for the Training of BiH Armed Forces recruits Pazaric can receive and train 300 young soldiers in one cycle, and that during one calendar year it can go up to a maximum of three cycles, only theoretically it comes to the fact that this training will take the new 2,200 soldiers almost three years. There will be a new competition to complete the armed forces. All this is about the justification for the changes and addition of the existing law in a way that activates the active reserves that exist in the organisation-forming structure of the Armed Forces of BiH, which would threaten the threat of combat preparedness, which no one can and must not question, be avoided, and the Armed Forces could be fully engaged in accordance with BiH's commitment in full capacity. 38 I once again, here, thank you for your patience, I think that if there is any need for any clarification, I can give them through debate. I call upon you, please support the request for an emergency procedure. And here, after you possibly support it, let's get to the bottom of this bill's proposal today. Thank you very much. Dear Representative Bajazit Jašarević, replica.
ParlaMint-BA_2010-04-21-0.u34420	Your Honor, Mr. Chairman, ladies and gentlemen of the Parliament. It's hard to find it now, that member, so I replicate it because every time a law like this comes to the House, I need to say that it doesn't meet the business provision that it has to be simple on its own content. So there's no mathematics in this world that laws like this, and so are many others that have been here, because this is where practice is introduced, mostly enough to make it simple, so it meets the conditions that it's simple. He could meet the condition that he's urgent, but if he were simple, we'd have a hard time tricking him. I'm just saying that because I've talked about it before. The other thing that is very difficult, which is also introduced here, is one practice that no one alive will write how much funding it takes to enforce the law. When we do not write how much financial resources are needed, so we have not reached enough responsibilities because the laws without funds cannot simply be passed and I think that in this case the problem is that the law is quite large and we do not have the position of the Council of Ministers of BiH. The Rules of Procedure states that when we have a motion that is not the Council of Ministers, it is mandatory to request the Council of Ministers' position. Of course, that means that regular procedure. So, about this however it's decided, let it decide, but I have a need and that whenever a law like this comes up, it's been here a lot, we just don't have a mechanism to protect ourselves from quick law-making, and that's causing some problems later. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-BA_2010-04-21-0.u34421	Mr. Lozančić, reply to the replica.
ParlaMint-BA_2010-04-21-0.u34422	Thank you. Dear colleague Jašarević, with all due respect for what you said, I must say that the subjective impression is what is simple and what is complex. So we have neither in the Rules of Procedure nor in any other act a definition complex, so let's say the complex is that, that, that, that, that, that, that, that, that, that. Thank you for your support that this is an emergency law. Here, I'm just insisting that we make an urgent statement and I understand that you don't dispute that it's urgent. 39 The procedure of Article 127 does not include a statement by the Council of Ministers, so you know it, I know that you know the Rules of Procedure well, so there is no statement from the Council of Ministers of BiH in this context. So, here, I once again, realizing that this really is about, I'm going to say, more about a complex moral issue, and a very simple legal-technical issue. Replica, the esteemed representative Sefer Halilović.
ParlaMint-BA_2010-04-21-0.u34423	A very short replica to Mr. Bajazit Jašarević. I, as Mr. Lozančić noted, withdrew my law, my draft law from the procedure, for the reason that this bill of law of Mr. Lozančić also contains those elements that I have proposed, and also more complex and lastingly solves this very important issue. I also noted, in my discussions, I think I no longer need to speak of this, that this law, the adoption of this law by emergency procedure, is necessary for the reason that, first of all, we have a moral obligation to adopt this and today, it has a human dimension, and it has a practical dimension, these are arguments that Mr. Niko Lozančić has, because not the adoption of this law endangers the combatability of the Armed Forces. That the BiH Council of Ministers wanted, obviously they will not be declared under this law, because it finally adopted this house, on my proposal, an initiative for the BiH Council of Ministers, i.e. the Ministry of Defence to provide complete and complex information on the problem. And here's the third session of Parliament, they don't bring it. Therefore, the Rules of Procedure do not oblige us to wait for the opinion of the Council of Ministers of BiH, and this problem is so urgent that, in my opinion, any delay today would be very harmful and would cause, I am afraid, would cause consequences that we cannot control anymore. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-BA_2010-04-21-0.u34424	I thank the esteemed representative Halilović. The next is distinguished representative Bajazit Jašarević, a replica.
ParlaMint-BA_2010-04-21-0.u34425	I wanted to replicate to you, not because of this law, so I wanted to because you're in the leadership of the House. Once a leadership will stand in the way that a complex thing and sensitive, in every respect, can't make a quick decision on it, so it's not productive to make a quick decision on it. And we have begged you sometimes before, you will have to let us all know that the 127th great wealth of this Rules of Procedure helps us save ourselves when we have to save ourselves. We use it here in a way that we avoid conducting a decent parliamentary procedure. Saving that speed can also be through those shortened procedures, but that's not why I'm... So, I think the leadership of this home and this can do well to avoid the abuse of this emergency procedure. And I didn't ask for anything else. What will be the vote on 40 laws, that's another topic. Whenever it is, I would, therefore, pray that, as we once decided, not to spread the number of members in amending the laws in amendments, it was once some leadership had decided. And now we respect it until we change it. You will also need to take a position on simple law and emergency law, and on that basis, then, in the future, we propose laws. It's just that, and this isn't what I was saying about this law.
ParlaMint-BA_2010-04-21-0.u34426	Thank you. The following was reported by prominent representative Šemsudin Mehmedović, a replica.
ParlaMint-BA_2010-04-21-0.u34427	Gentlemen chairman, ladies and gentlemen of the council. I wouldn't agree with those who think this is purely formal-technical law, that it's simple. Well, here, if we accept that it's simple and that these are some formal technical definitions in law, but I don't think we should run from the essence of this law. I don't think that it is comprehensively undermining this law, i.e., the consequences that would arise by the urgent adoption of this law for the reasons that the provisions of this law affect and the essence of the defence system, i.e. the defence powers of the BiH Armed Forces. And I don't think we should make this law lightly, regardless of the financial weight of this law, regardless of the urgency of this law, because of the problems we've had. I think, however, that a regular procedure is a better solution for such a law and that we are taking it out of all sides so that, God Bog, we don't make any mistake and that we don't jeopardize the reform, the successful defence reform we had in BiH. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-BA_2010-04-21-0.u34428	Thank you. The next is Honorable Representative Adem Huskić.
ParlaMint-BA_2010-04-21-0.u34429	Thank you, Mr. Chairman. A good part of what I was about to say has already been said by colleagues Jašarević and Mehmedović. I also don't think this is the simplest thing that we could treat it this way, as part of Article 127. And an additional argument which makes me think that's how it is next. In your comment, you've made some analysis that, in my opinion, I'd say, military nature, military political, I think you should get those analyses from the Department of Defense. That's one thing. And another thing, we have neither sought nor received the position of the High Commander of the Armed Forces of BiH in the entire procedure so far, which is the BiH Presidency. So, I propose that, in addition to asking the Council of Ministers for an opinion from the BiH Council of Ministers, we ask the BiH Presidency to see what they, as the Supreme Commander of the Armed Forces, think about this initiative. And that's why I suggest that we do not work on Article 127, but move this into 41 other procedures. I know you don't agree with that. I, believe me, respect you personally and your hard work, but I think here, in this case, are these arguments that I have made. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-BA_2010-04-21-0.u34430	Thank you. The next is the esteemed representative of Zlatko Lagumdžija.
ParlaMint-BA_2010-04-21-0.u34431	I thank you, Mr. Chairman. Dear colleagues and colleagues. I really thought that after my fellow SDA step-up, here's the BiH Party, I would just join those who support what we practically agreed at the last session when we talked about this. I, Mr. Lozančić, really congratulate you and my colleague Halilović on the effort you've made and I think you've done a great job. I thought it would be enough just to find out here that the SDP MPs' club is also joining the support of this law, because I felt that this was, more or less, a general place among us, to get rid of this exactly in the way that you very systematically and legally arranged it. But from what I'm hearing right now, I'm afraid there's a procedure here that tries to push some things onto a dead track. Let there be no such thing as a procedural basis. Those who believe this will not, for what reasons, support it, say we will not support the end. And then we'll go on, talk in a different way. But we all know very well, if this is pushed into the process, that it will be for the next assembly of Parliament. And he was right to be a colleague of Jašarević when he said that this article was used in 127 when something had to be saved. I mean, is there anything more important than trying to save the fate of 2,200 people who, if we push it into the process, will practically be lost? I formally observe, in order to go by article 127, to remind once again, although we all know it well, the law must be a high degree of urgency or not so complex. This children now learn from logic, from mathematics that the word “or” means one or the other. So this law is enough to be urgent or not so complex. I wouldn't want to explain to those who won't understand that this is also not a complex law, so we don't get into unnecessary debates and then, under discussion of this kind, we're practically, like, confused. This law has a high degree of urgency. It's all clear, it's all clear. It's all clear, but it's a good thing, Mr. Lozančić, you got involved in the way you turned on the last time, because now, I say, it's been better cleared out of all this and all the possible misunderstandings that could have been opened, then they've been avoided. Because this law is extremely simple. This only applies to a 10-year extension for regular soldiers. And everything else, these members, working, like this, like that, don't let, over there, is all about cleaning the law so that it can be consistently implemented to the end. So it can't be simpler. This law resolves the fate of 2,200 soldiers who were mostly soldiers who were in three warring armies on 31.12.1995. So, I don't want to open up what's been going on at the Department of Defense for the last few years, which is what's been going on under the carpet. I don't want to open up how people were brought in, and some of them could have stayed if they weren't brought in by someone else. I don't even want to open up how 42 of these people could be requalified, employed in the State Border Service, employed in the SIPA, etc., etc. I don't want to open it because that's not what we're dealing with. (We today, the only way to treat these people honestly and responsibly who, I repeat, are a better part of the reform of state structures in this country.) And in the end, it's incorrect, it turns out that some people here are just worried about how to get rid of the bosses in the army. The bosses are all set, all the bosses are settled. People are made of bosses to be saved. We don't have a right, we don't have a moral right to solve things for the people who did things, not to solve for the common soldier. We have no moral right to do that. And it's simple and urgent, or there's no alternative, and it's not urgent anymore. Anyway, there's just no alternative. So I would like to appeal to you, esteemed gentlemen of the parties who have more MPs, I would like to urge you to really vote in line with the elemental morality, which is to support this law. This law is not for the benefit of any people, of any entity, of this law, and I even thank the people of the Directorate for European Integration who have told us culturally, finely that, as far as European integration is concerned, this is all right. So we don't have anyone who's against it. And finally, I'd like to pray that, too, with this law, I suggest we adopt two conclusions. The first conclusion, therefore, I repeat, is that these are not alternatives, but conclusions, in order to just unwind things in the right direction – it is up to the Council of Ministers to urgently propose the rebalancing of the Budget of BiH, if necessary, to adopt the Law on Amendments and Supplements of the Law on Service in Armed Forces. So, in order not to be a problem, Budget, if there's a need, I don't think you should. _________(?) There's no need. No need, great. They say there's no need, I draw a conclusion. But not because of the budget, we can't adopt this. So, if you have a problem with the budget, here's Parliament's obligation to rebalance that thing. No, that's great. Another conclusion, colleague Lozančić, i.e. Mr. Chairman – is in charge of the Ministry of Defence to prepare, after this law, a plan for the retraining and education of members of the Armed Forces, in accordance with the employment programme with other budget users, with a special emphasis on those financed from the Budget of BiH. So, fine, calmly open one process without any drama, what hasn't been done in the last two three years, that now, however, the Ministry of Defence is in charge, in cooperation with others, that those people who have ambition to go somewhere else into budgetary users, and as members of the armed forces do not have some serious perspective, to enable them to do so. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-BA_2010-04-21-0.u34433	Thank you. Replica, honourable Ambassador Vinko Zorić. Here you go. 43
ParlaMint-BA_2010-04-21-0.u34434	Well, I was thinking of replicating my fellow Lagumdžija, but he's one of the contradictions that I'm replicating myself and I'm going to give up on that part. But, as he thought, I'm going to use these two minutes, as he thought only to give support to this law, here, I'm just going to give support to this law and I don't need to sign up for debate. But I will give support and procedures. And for me, it's not either or, it's for both of us. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-BA_2010-04-21-0.u34435	Thank you. Dear Ambassador Bakir Izetbegović, debate. Here you go.
ParlaMint-BA_2010-04-21-0.u34436	So this law would really save 2,200 people from uncertain fate, people who fought, who went through terrible things. Today they are people who have children, who are in charge of loans, who are likely to find themselves in a hopeless situation to wonder what they needed all along if the state leaves them in suspense. And I don't know why any of us would be against it? Here's why, why would people who were partners with them, wartime military disableds, see, sitting with me in this same order, why would they be against this kind of law? Isn't it nice to press the green one and then come down nice and tell the boys to have a mustache, to break up, that the law was passed, that their question was settled? Why would we do that? Well, because this could jeopardize the MAP and NATO road to BiH. I don't believe any of us, esteeming a colleague of Lozančić, can know this better than professional soldiers sitting in the Department of Defense. We also have the Supreme Command, as my colleague Huskić said, and we have this operational one, and I need their answer, and I can do it by a brief procedure – will this thing endanger BiH's path to NATO? Because then we put 4 million people at risk, and their fate, and their future. So, I support what Mr. Huskić has asked us to hear the opinion of the Supreme Command and the BiH Council of Ministers on this law. I'll back him with both hands if he doesn't threaten the way to NATO. If it threatens, if we cannot pass this law, then I expect from professionals, from the Ministry of Defence to come up with a law that will enable both, and the Action Plan of the Council of Ministers of BiH that will take care of these people, warriors, and not to let us here, amateurs for this matter, get rid of the matter to solve it. So what do we have, the Council of Ministers? So here comes the shortened procedure, but without the opinion of the Supreme Command and the Council of Ministers of BiH, I think it's unserious to vote on this, because we're going to solve a problem, we're going to make it much bigger.
ParlaMint-BA_2010-04-21-0.u34437	Dear President, Dr. Milorad Živković. 44
ParlaMint-BA_2010-04-21-0.u34438	Thank you. Namely, I was talking about it, and when from the honourable MP Sefer was the proposal of this law here, and I will remind all of you again that in 2005, we are together, and the opposition and the position, here all present in the BiH Parliament, in the last term, passed this law. I'll remind you that at least I didn't hear anyone cause a problem with this member of the law. That, on this point, all the members, the great debate, that various committees, with the help of the current deputy High Representative of the international community and all relevant institutions, were working together on this document. And if we did wrong, we did it together. Then we need to make it right together. That they don't share here now on those who want it, and on those who don't want it. If we've done wrong, and now we're getting demands and, let me say, warnings that injustice has been done, then we have to admit that we did it together. And I am aware that I accept part of the responsibility involved in the election of a law that wrongs those who are now required to leave the military service. But I do not accept part of the responsibility in which everyone has escaped and only this Parliament remains on the line to correct this injustice. There is no more international community anywhere, no more deputy high representative, who is here in BiH, and his any memo on what will happen if we adopt this law. There is no memo from the BiH Council of Ministers, nor from the defence ministry what will happen if we adopt this law. There are no memos from the BiH presidency, no papers, what will happen if we adopt such a law, not to say that these days the Council of Ministers is considering the award of the MAP of BiH. We don't even have that memo. And all responsibility or all responsibility has been put on this Parliament and on these MPs to make injustice. And I'm talking, if we pass this law, will we make a new injustice? Are we going to make an injustice for those who have prepared themselves and who have applied for a contest to be in the Armed Forces now with the years they have? Who speaks of this kind of injustice, and how can we avoid this injustice? And so, as a request, I think it should be time to get out of all the relevant institutions these papers on what opinion is, what is this law supposed to look like, what are its good and bad sides? At the same time, the SNSD will not participate in the second round of entity voting to bring down this law if that happens. But we have made our position clear that all responsibility cannot be just at this House, but on all the factors that have been involved in making this, if we can call it, an unfair part of the law. Dear Ambassador Selim Bešlagić, replica. Here you go.
ParlaMint-BA_2010-04-21-0.u34439	Dear chairman, colleagues and colleagues, honored guests. I must say, I seem to have gotten into an awkward situation to be a member of the Defence Commission just when this problem culminated and, behold, on that commission I asked the same questions that you, Mr. Živković, asked the Ministry of Defense, how this would affect, let me say, the NATO Pact and the rest. The answer we got, we all got him here, was that it was maltenes against regulations, or, that we were going to step back, because there it was said that, let's say, soldiers 45 took up to 35 years to be. But then, after that commission session, in conversations with those I could talk to, it was said that it was not prescribed anywhere for how many years. In Croatia, in Slovenia there is about 40 years, etc., etc., which in other words means limit to 35 years we have set up, what you said, Mr. Živković, us who got it here and did so. So, the first injustice is that it's been restricted for 35 years when it's not restricted, let's say, by the NATO alliance. Another injustice in this law is that the reserve of soldiers is 35 years old, which means, in other words, when a soldier is 35 years old, he can't go into reserve because we would have to hire, let's say, young soldiers as a reserve, which is a nonsensical of that law. I'm saying that, just what you said, there are certain mistakes that are, I'd say, mistakes made and that are happening today on what we're talking about. And on my question about how it affects the NATO Pact and everything else, you know the answer I got. This is just about financial issues. So if you move your years to 40 years, if you take (that in the reserve 35 to 40), you've finished the job and I think we've won the team. This is just about financial things that, in my deep opinion, I think I can find, if not in (now, in the budget rebalancing). Because last time we talked about these things, which we agreed to go this law that Mr. Lozančić wrote, and Mr. Sefer Halilović... I would ask that we plead today, that we should not discuss it, that it will plead every way he thinks it should be declared, but that we respect the request of the applicant to vote on this procedure and that we then go to the procedure that follows. Thank you.
ParlaMint-BA_2010-04-21-0.u34440	Thank you. Replica, honourable MP Sefer Halilović. Here you go.
ParlaMint-BA_2010-04-21-0.u34441	I just want to say two sentences here for a little while. So any attempt to transfer this to a shortened or regular procedure is to run away from the problem. It is true what Mr. Živković said, we have made the problem all together and let's make it all right together in one human and correct way. I will repeat again, therefore, the Council of Ministers of BiH and the Supreme Command, had two three months, had time to plead. Despite this parliament's clear demands, they have not come forward, they obviously won't come forward. This Parliament, as the highest legislative body on this issue, therefore, above this Parliament is only Bog, there is no one else, has the obligation to resolve this issue today and any delay in this solution is taking responsibility for the decision as voted. When it comes to amateurs and experts, don't think that if you ask someone as defence minister that he's automatically become the best expert on this or any other issue, or the health minister, don't think that the health minister is the best health expert. He's got experts and he's past the minister. This issue does not endanger BiH's path to the EU, nor threatens BiH's path to NATO. So this is a matter of this Parliament and this is a matter of our responsibility to resolve this issue. And I appeal once again to settle this today as proposed in this law by Mr. Lozančić. 46 Thank you.
ParlaMint-BA_2010-04-21-0.u34442	Thank you. Replica, dear Ambassador Zlatko Lagumdžija. Here you go.
ParlaMint-BA_2010-04-21-0.u34443	Thank you. If injustices were committed on October 05, 2005, when this law was passed and if, then, if someone should feel guilty that on October 05, 2005, he did not think about 2010, then I accept such responsibility. For the past five years, however, the Ministry of Defence and the Council of Ministers of BiH have certainly had a way to solve many of these cases that were now accumulated in 2010. This could be resolved, I repeat, in the way of requalification and qualifications and education for several acts and transitions to other institutions that have been filled with people who have been brought in the way they have been brought in. I now hear for the first time that for these 2,200 people there is a waiting list of some 2,200 new people. If someone took the obligation to hire someone from the family instead of these 2,200 people, some friends and something, so we better make that injustice, that whoever promised those places of these living people, well, let him explain how he promised someone he would hire, and now he can't, Parliament didn't understand and he wronged those new people. If that were the case, if it had been thought of before and it hadn't been done in many cases, there would have been less problems today. And I repeat, I don't want to open it exactly to try to find a consensus here, not to discuss what anyone did when they did it wrong, but how to solve the biggest problem right now, which is 2,200 problems together. I came forward because I'm proposing some kind of compromise that would allow you, which you're not ready to vote for right now, to join us. Namely, you see, let's adopt this here today, and you who claim to be a problem with the MAP, you have the House of Peoples, so let's get to the House of Peoples and get somebody to untangle what happened to the MAP. I responsibly claim, responsiblely here that we will not enter NATO because of this law, but because of the mass of other things that have nothing to do with these 2,200 people. If the issue has been resolved, here, tomorrow go to the BiH Council of Ministers, solve the issue of military property, little constitutional reforms, just enough to see in the MAP that we have one supreme command, solve it, and no one will ask for these 2,200 people, no one will, don't worry about anything. So, don't treat this like something that the haman will stop us on NATO's path. We'd get the MAP in December if things had happened before.
ParlaMint-BA_2010-04-21-0.u34444	Time.
ParlaMint-BA_2010-04-21-0.u34445	So, Mr. Chairman, I appeal once again to you who claim that because of the MAP, you cannot raise your hand, I urge you not to hide from it... that you... believe me, it has nothing to do with 47. And you, I say responsibly, you prove that this has something to do with the MAP to the House of Peoples and you can stop it there, you have most of it, but let this pass today. No Niko, absolutely no one wrote the paper and signed, no MAP with this, no one. You know why no one did? Because no one has the courage to do it, because they know it's not true. And in the end, even in court, you have to prove that something is true, not that something hangs in the air, and then when proven. So whoever wants to do this...
ParlaMint-BA_2010-04-21-0.u34446	Time.
ParlaMint-BA_2010-04-21-0.u34447	...provides the MAP to prove it. And, Mr. Chairman, I would only ask you once more, if at all possible, that you, as chairman, urge others to behave like you, not to stop this. Now, don't just stop us, there's enough of us to take responsibility for the MAP with this law. But don't stop us.
ParlaMint-BA_2010-04-21-0.u34448	Dear Ambassador Momčilo Novaković, replica. Here you go.
ParlaMint-BA_2010-04-21-0.u34449	Thank you, Mr. Chairman. First, I want to replicate those who are passing some kind of responsibility to this House for the adoption of this law. Here, I voted for this bill and I'm not at all responsible for what this article says. The defence departments, entity ministries, also worked for military members, no one participated in this, so that I should be responsible. So I don't feel at all responsible for having this member in this law. I don't feel responsible if this isn't accepted today, let's get along right now. Although I'll vote, I'll say two how in a minute. Look, what's fate for these people, for others is an election campaign here today, it's a fact and it's the right of those... Here, I am part of this process and I will support this law regardless of its consequences. I'm going to support him because I think we need to solve these people's issues, without some big talk, without some big talk. If I knew we wouldn't be in NATO because of him, then I'd rather support him and beg Bog that we don't go to NATO. So, if I knew that's why we're not going to join NATO, I'd rather support him. So, I will support this, but please, I do not feel any responsibility for this member to be found in this law, which we have then all so heartily supported in the BiH Parliament, of course, as a result of a comprehensive analysis and intense debate on every detail of this law.
ParlaMint-BA_2010-04-21-0.u34450	Thank you. Dear Ambassador Drago Kalabić, replica. 48
ParlaMint-BA_2010-04-21-0.u34451	Thank you, Mr. Chairman. Here, you're the biggest part on behalf of the SNSD you've said, but I need to explain, since there are other things coming out here. We specifically asked the Deputy Minister, Mrs. Pendeš, on the Defence Commission, and said that we would follow the Ministry's position. She made it clear and precise that this was destroying the defense system. So, we haven't analyzed at all, we've said that the people who lead there... This parliament has had one, until today, a special relationship to the defence system, because it was thought that NATO and everything else was there, (although people think there is something that this parliament should have supported). It's important for us today that you tell us that it can be different. (We are according to that level of responsibility) We believe that is what the minister said, as soon as the deputy said so, and that is how it is. We didn't even give in to why it was, because it has to be like that. If a different message is sent today that can be different, then a lot of things can be different. You should know that. Then he can do a lot of things differently, then he can, then don't let anyone get up here and say that's NATO's request. If he has a NATO request, we want the minister here now to come and say, if it's a request, I don't know anyone or anyone else's deputy or anyone else who wants to say it. And if you can do this, then you'll have a situation that many other things can do. And we have ten things already in order, all ten of us are going to ask to be installed into the defense system, all ten of us, because it can, now all of a sudden, we're going to make an autonomous decision. And only on this thing. So, the SNSD didn't question this at all, we don't want to argue that this is a problem and that this has to be solved. We wanted to stay on this principle thing. If someone wants a prank, to make an argument why they can't, here, we're going to do it today, they're going to use it and say, "Yeah, you see, they're on their own something that isn't in the system that they've adopted, who they've asked that they can, it's a very complex problem in which everyone participates, and the BiH Presidency, and the Ministry of Defence, and NATO and, I don't know, everyone else. Are we going to admit to ourselves that so far we've been acting like this and swallowing a lot of things because people have said it's the right thing to do and it has to do it. But I'm willing to tell you this because we're opening that story. So then there can be a downsizing of the Armed Forces, there can be demilitarization, there can be a variety of things if we agree here. And we have ten problems that we can very easily solve here if it depends on this Parliament's decision and we don't need to ask anyone. If that's the situation, it'll be clear to us today that we're taking matters into our own hands here. And then there, not that member, there are more members, here, people were saying under what conditions it was adopted. A set of compromises, in a way that not everyone happily agreed to, but agreed to one goal. And it's very interesting that today there's not a single caller to say what's the point. Like us, we're left to decide for ourselves, and we won't have a problem with that decision. And we all the time, and I end up, from the SNSD we focus on people telling us what it means for the system, what it means for the overall position of BiH, what it means for the goals that are agreed on, what it means for the budget, what it means next, all those issues. So we're not arguing at all, what the chairman said, just the job that we're going to be you, but we haven't come to this social story at all. So, in this situation, we're going to be totally clear and just doing our job to prevent us from bringing it here sovereignly, because we see that we're headed in that direction and that we can do it all of a sudden. Maybe we didn't even know what the one says about that motor saw - and he says it needs to work in order to cut it, so, so it's going to burn, here, and it means to us - yeah, it just takes a good will to decide it looks like it can happen from today. 49
ParlaMint-BA_2010-04-21-0.u34452	Dear President, Dr. Milorad Živković, replica.
ParlaMint-BA_2010-04-21-0.u34453	Well, unfortunately, I had to wait for everyone who had a replica to end up, so it would replicate something that was said before. That's how the Rules of Procedure is, and that's how we've done it so far. I want to say that yesterday, the BiH Presidency sat down and that one of the unanimous conclusions was – that this year will be a reduction and a rationalisation of the military in BiH. I have expected from all the members of the BiH presidency, I am also talking about my member of the Bureau who belongs to my party, or your member of the presidency belonging to your party, to explain this here when we are discussing this law. Not to hide behind various committees, the assistants of the minister of commissions come, do not come out loud and clear here in this House to say what they think of this. And then maybe it'd be easier for us to discuss these injustices we talked about here. Because then we are the most responsible, tomorrow we will be the ones who will be called by someone that we have prevented BiH from progressing towards Euro-Atlantic integration in that segment. I have talked about this kind of responsibility, the responsibilities of everyone in BiH, not hiding behind the annual holidays, I hear that some ministers are on vacation, from a statement made by the BiH Presidency or from the presence of committees, rather than attending sessions when we are discussing this today. I was talking about this kind of responsibility, and I'm willing to bear my responsibility, but I'm not ready to worry about how others are hiding behind important decisions in this country. Dear Ambassador Mirko Okolić, replica. Here you go.
ParlaMint-BA_2010-04-21-0.u34454	It's not a replica, I'm giving up, and I'm going to the discussion.
ParlaMint-BA_2010-04-21-0.u34455	First these replicas to finish.
ParlaMint-BA_2010-04-21-0.u34456	No replicas, none.
ParlaMint-BA_2010-04-21-0.u34457	There you go.
ParlaMint-BA_2010-04-21-0.u34458	Well, there is now behind me when you gave me your word. 50
ParlaMint-BA_2010-04-21-0.u34459	Mr. Okolić, you signed up for the line before Mr. Niko Lozančić asked for a replica, so there have already been reported.
ParlaMint-BA_2010-04-21-0.u34460	Now here's the replica...
ParlaMint-BA_2010-04-21-0.u34461	Here you go, replica.
ParlaMint-BA_2010-04-21-0.u34462	...because there's going to be another five replicas, etc.
ParlaMint-BA_2010-04-21-0.u34463	Well, here, you'll get both a word and a replica, all in a row. Here you go.
ParlaMint-BA_2010-04-21-0.u34464	The replica, then the discussion.
ParlaMint-BA_2010-04-21-0.u34465	Come on.
ParlaMint-BA_2010-04-21-0.u34466	Thank you very much. First, let me tell those who said (that this is not just a financial issue), that this is just a financial issue and that there are no other problems in this matter at all, that is, about these amendments and the addition of the law, that this is not true. He can't just be watched. Furthermore, who said there was no statement by the BiH Ministry of Defence and Armed Forces, I have information, and I am sure that the statement came from the BiH Armed Forces, and I think it is also from the Ministry of Defence, but I am not sure if it passed on, but the BiH Armed Forces have forwarded their opinion on all this. Furthermore, what responsibility this is I do not see except what is trying to pre-election now to manipulate these people, whom I feel sorry for, and I don't think this is correct with their fates now to manipulate through any proposals to amend such a law or to adopt or not to adopt, because they are uncertain hopes in all of this. And now I'm going to say why. We're talking about something that went on a long time ago. It's like we're talking in May that we should go skiing and we want to go skiing, and we had November, December, January and February, etc., and we didn't go skiing at all. That's what we let 51 pass by, and then we remember in May that we should ski. And really, if this wasn't sad, it would be funny. Here's why. It has been known for several years that a number of soldiers and officers will be fired under this law from the BiH Armed Forces Service on the basis of contracts signed. We have already discussed this in this congregation several times. We had a report on the Trust fund that passed through here and who said it all, if anyone was reading it. And then it's all going well, and it's all known, and there's nothing going on, and then it just remembers when the train passes. If the train had passed, gentlemen, I'll tell you now, it was 1.3.2010 when 300 people were fired. Here, I'll tell the people or members of the Armed Forces of BiH. It will now be necessary, if these changes are amended and complemented, or if they bring amendments and additions to this law, that these 300 people return, because they can't do that...
ParlaMint-BA_2010-04-21-0.u34467	Time.
ParlaMint-BA_2010-04-21-0.u34468	...I'll be right there, you can't retroactively disrespect it, because you can't leave one and the other not come back that we fired on 1.3. And then I'm gonna have to do this in a discussion, it's for nothing.
ParlaMint-BA_2010-04-21-0.u34469	First Deputy Chairman, Mr. Niko Lozančić, replica. Here you go.
ParlaMint-BA_2010-04-21-0.u34470	Thank you, Mr. President. I tried to avoid getting into the trap of collecting cheap political points, annoying anyone, any irritation, simply believing that we all know what this is about and that this... I am not happy that it's only Niko Lozančić, I wanted to experience that this is our joint project. So, the project of this Parliament. Now, the circumstances aren't so hateful to me, so after all the debates we've had here, sit down and write down what I wrote. So I expect you, here, to appreciate that part at least. And I have to, this is what I'm reporting right now, because I really need to comment on a few things that have nothing to do with relationships. Responsibility, it's nice to call on responsibility on the fate of these people, great. We have a responsibility against four million and some of the inhabitants of this country, where we are fortunate to show that responsibility every time against four million. Don't test the responsibility on them now, so that's the first thing. The second thing, the time, I waited politely, and you heard in the note, if you listened, that I had sent this bill, the request, on 23.03, after the deadline that this parliament gave to the BiH Council of Ministers to deliver its proposal. I didn't want it before that deadline, even though I had a proposal written. Why didn't the BiH Council of Ministers write? Why didn't she honor the House's conclusion? Here's a question for all of us. 23.03, 21.04 a month. If we had considered it then, we might as well be in the regular procedure today. You all got it then, and you and everyone else interested in 52 of this process. Why is someone running away from this? Anyone offer an argument, anyone, which is why we can't adopt this. That there's gonna be damage to that, that, that, that, I haven't even heard from you. They exist for a reason, maybe it'll jeopardize our path as NATO. And I agree with all those who say, if this threatens that path, let them compromise, but I'm sure they won't. There's a lot we all know. Here, some have mentioned it through several dots, what it is that threatens, slows our path, otherwise, both in European and Euro-Atlantic integrations. And it's not safe for these two thousand people, so it's not safe for these two thousand people. And I'm going to read an article that's changing, so it says -- in case of rationalisation and reduction of the number of Armed Forces, then, military insurance, etc., it gets the right to early retirement when it turns 45 and at least 20 years of retirement. Here, I, listening to this morning when I came here, heard on the radio that the BiH Presidency made a decision yesterday to declare this year rationalization. I don't know what they didn't do on December 31st, they probably know that. If the year has been declared a year of rationalization, and the year has already been three months, almost four months, why haven't they done it before. But here, but if they don't think about it, then there are no provisions. When they come to mind after four months to declare a year of rationalization, perhaps someone under these conditions exercise the right. I just wanted to remove any subjectivity in all of this. If we're even establishing the possibility that someone under these conditions can go into early retirement, then it's always, for everyone. Sometimes me or someone, here's the idea of assessing the year of rationalization. So that's one of the motives, we're talking about one concrete change. Secondly, the exceptions, so here we have foreseen in the applicable law that an extremely, etc., if someone in the act is bridging, can be retired under very favourable conditions. I erased it. So I suggest in this law that it be erased. Because it's discrimination, so this law applies to the brigades both generals and soldiers. So if anyone can go under more favourable conditions, then anyone who's in the Armed Forces, not just a general, a brigade or, I don't know, someone else. I find that unacceptable. I respect all the reasons why someone took care of someone as he collected, etc., it is not correct, and I will repeat it the hundredth time, it is not correct to threaten ourselves and the citizens that these two thousand people will endanger BiH's path to NATO. It's not right, it's not fair, it's just not fair. So they're not jeopardizing them, but institutions that haven't done their jobs in good time, and we here and everyone else, let's just say so honestly. And let's not break the car over their backs. I apologize, but I had to do this in this tone, and in this way, I meant really not to talk anymore. And if this is it, I left it for the end, the election campaign, as many said, so I don't want other epithets, so here's to all of us being pre-election campaigns. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-BA_2010-04-21-0.u34471	Thank you. Replica, dear Ambassador Zlatko Lagumdžija. Here you go. 53
ParlaMint-BA_2010-04-21-0.u34472	I thank you, Mr. Chairman. A few things I think we should say, that we would still try to come to a solution. It is true that the BiH presidency yesterday declared a year of rationalisation, not that it is the year of rationalisation in the Ministry of Defence, but the year of rationalisation whatever it means and whatever it is on or not on time. However, to be very clear, first of all, the year of rationalisation is not violated by the draft of this law, because these 2,200 people will not be removed from the budget and released by the budget for 2,200 salaries, but, we have already heard, it is okay to have a new 2,200 that will use the budget rationally. So this has nothing to do with rationalization. And the other thing is, by any chance, it's true that this is affecting the rationalization, so let's not go into rationalization of the Ministry of Defense against soldiers. I guess it would be fairer to start from higher rank and from spending and for more acts, they cost a little more than a soldier. The next thing I think you should say, besides what Mr. Lozančić said, it's not fair or moral, however you want, to tie this to the MAP, besides that, Mr. Lozančić, there's an even more important thing, it's not even true. So it's not true, or we don't have any valid paper signed by a metric person who claims something like that. As for the election campaign, I would even ask you to play with something called common sense and logic. Since I have learned today that there are already 2,200 people, friends, relatives, acquaintances waiting to come to these places, so what is the pre-election campaign to meet these 2,200 people who will stay, when they will be against us, 2,200 people who have already prepared themselves for their place. So, you're free, you can't get anything here, so I'd ask you, don't fool yourself with it, nothing anyone can get that 2,200 people, is they, stay at work, because, look, I see 2,200 people then won't come to that job. Then again we come to him for logic or common sense which he says, whoever thinks this is his election campaign may have played him like this all the time. And the last thing, you see, is not correct, in article 101. The law, i.e. Article 102 of the basic law, which is amended by Articles 38 and 39, is now only proposed to soldiers not to be 35 but 45. Because, according to soldiers, even injustice was committed and not a colleague of Lozančić was committed to the correction and end of Article 101 and 102, the last paragraph, which he said - that the defence minister could leave officers and officers in the service even if they turned 55 and 50. So, another injustice was built on the common soldier. Well, that's not done, we could, at the very least, if it's simpler for you, make a decision that the minister and the soldiers can extend as long as they want, as it can for officers and officers, and then there wouldn't be any problem. We'd like to conclude that he has extended and healthy, goodbye.
ParlaMint-BA_2010-04-21-0.u34473	Time. 54
ParlaMint-BA_2010-04-21-0.u34474	So once again I appeal to you, please, you who are a little abstention, let us do this one correct way. And to truly be one sign of the goodwill of this entire Parliament to the people who will lead us into NATO, and these are the ordinary soldiers, be assured, only if the rest of the society does its job.
ParlaMint-BA_2010-04-21-0.u34475	Replica, honourable Ambassador Drago Kalabić. Here you go.
ParlaMint-BA_2010-04-21-0.u34476	Oh, here we go, one more time, even though we're starting to repeat ourselves. So, we don't have any responsibility issues as far as this whole story is concerned. The SNSD's request is just to turn on the light, to know if this law was adopted against the minister and the deputy minister and against the will of the ministry. That's all we ask to know, it won't affect our decision. So that's just what we know. Is it logical that we adopt the law and that the Ministry continues to claim that this is destroying the system and that everything remains in place? I'm just asking if it makes sense? Here, even we don't mind, so here, we'll make our own decision, we just want it as information, that we know it all over this story. So we want to know, it has nothing to do with our decision on how we vote. And it's just that someone is worthy of telling us if they're going down this road to NATO or not. That doesn't give us a vote. I said what we were up to. But it's important for us to come to this vote to see if we're deciding whether or not we're taking responsibility for it, and in any case we're not setting it up, as well as stories in Tallinn and NATO, it's known who's running it, and if it's serious, you'd be here today telling us -- you can do it, you don't have a problem or you can't, and either way, (whatever you'd say). That's all we ever warned about. The SNSD acted correctly because it felt that around this important thing, when it was a sensitive topic, about the Ministry of Defence and these issues, that everyone should be correct and say their position. If the minister doesn't care about these thousands of people, so there's no courage to come here to say, that's his problem. It doesn't matter to us, these people who are here and who have a problem, so it doesn't occur to us. They'll just understand that before that we're asked to be told, to clarify these questions, and that they know that. If the increase in numbers, the reduction in numbers, BiH has the money to pay these people, there's more than that for Sarajevo's rent, these stories, I don't know either. So that's not the problem. But before that, we want people to either definitely avoid us and tell us that they don't want to, because so far they've always told us very clearly, they've had a very precise attitude, and all of the time we've respected, suddenly there's no attitude. That's all we insist on. In no case will it define our decision, and we will define ourselves and just work to save the SNSD that we're just taking care of the state's interests, so don't, don't think that. If any of these people want to make a splash, we'll have our own attitude about it.
ParlaMint-BA_2010-04-21-0.u34477	Dear Ambassador Bakir Izetbegović, replica. Here you go. 55
ParlaMint-BA_2010-04-21-0.u34478	It's a replica of my colleague Lozančić. So is this law jeopardizing the functionality of the Armed Forces and, in particular, the MAP, the next phase of negotiations with NATO? Mr. Lozančić, here's the appointment here, actually proposed by HDZ, tells us there's no problem. Mrs. Pendeš, a professional named by the HDZ at the Department of Defense, says she does. So we have two controversial answers to whom to trust. We'd be very happy to support this bill, but we have to get an answer. So, from the Supreme Command and from this operation, from the BiH presidency and from the BiH Council of Ministers, we are asking for a shortened procedure, therefore, to resolve this matter in May, and to get answers by then.
ParlaMint-BA_2010-04-21-0.u34479	Dear Ambassador Šefik Džaferović, discussion.
ParlaMint-BA_2010-04-21-0.u34480	Mr. Chairman, colleagues and colleagues. I had no intention of speaking, however, I see from session to session, day to day, this question is complicated. And this is not the first debate on this subject, this is the third document that we are discussing on this subject, the second was the draft law by counterpart Halilović. But we forget all of the one thing that happened last year, it was the first debate, it was the Commission's Defence and Security Report on this subject, when we received the BiH Ministry of Defence Report, also on this topic, which was discussed by the Commission and both of the BiH Parliamentary Assembly homes supported the report. Last year, check out the stenograms, this home, and I think it was done by the House of Peoples, supported a report by our joint commission that supported the defence ministry's views and the BiH Armed Forces Command on the issue. Only when it came to twelve and a minute, then problems started to open up. And a few months before this problem arises, therefore, objectively begin to unwind and open, this Parliament has supported a plan that the Ministry of Defence and Staff, the Joint Staff, have proposed to the Commission, and I was one of those who told the Commission – people, this is such a serious question, don't let this stand on the committee, let this go to Parliament. And Parliament came and Parliament supported it, and you will see the conclusions of Parliament. It is best to speak today, since, therefore, the election year, I believe that some discussions are not even about the elections, I will not weigh them at all, but today is the best time to get up and say – yes, I support this law and solve this problem right now. However, the problem will arise again in two years, in three years, and I think we need to solve this matter essentially in BiH. And we need to get rid of it now, we're essentially going to have to solve it. I think it's a much bigger problem, when we talk about people who are 45 years old, and if we extend to 45 years old, there's going to be a problem where with these people. No one can retire anymore, no more pensions. Because if we continue this way, pensions won't be able to receive those who are 65 years old and 40 years old, who have earned pensions. So, no more pensions. And I think it's a lot healthier and much better, and for this society, maybe for me who's discussing it today, it's not good, and let's not, it doesn't matter, that we solve things when people are 35 years old or 40 years old. 56 We have suggested from the SDA that the minister extends his powers to all those who have started military service since '92. '95. years to 40 years. The answer is that most of it has already been used, that most of them are 40 years old already. What do we do when we're up to 45? Then we'll have this kind of debate again, and in the meantime it's very questionable whether we're going to go to NATO or not. According to what I heard from the defence minister, from the deputy defence minister and from the chief general, therefore, Chief of Štab, this issue is deeply related to NATO's path and we take credit when it comes to NATO's path. Call them here and I ask that all three here be present, both Cikotić and General, Minister Cikotić and Deputy Minister, this Mrs Pendeš and this Milojčić. So let them tell us here in Parliament, and together we'll all bring it along. I think... _________(?) [[no microphone turned on]] I can't hear you. _________(?) Another deputy.
ParlaMint-BA_2010-04-21-0.u34484	Thank you. Mirko Okolić, discussion. Here you go.
ParlaMint-BA_2010-04-21-0.u34485	Thank you, Mr. Chairman. Here, you see, this is about one law, that is, amendments and additions to a law that should be implemented by the BiH Ministry of Defence and Armed Forces, and we have no one present, and that is proof of how much they care about changing this law in terms of the proposed one. I didn't think they were uninterested in lawmaking, but probably interested in making these changes and supplementing, so there would be all those who could contribute to the adoption of the law. 58 It's hard to decide about this. I know, I know, if I weren't in a particular situation, I would, even though I'm not going to say how I'm going to vote, but I would certainly vote for these changes and supplements then because I would think it's a single human act and finish the job. Here, however, there is a question of where to sin more. Do these people who need to leave the Armed Forces' service under signed contracts or do more wrong about the youth there that has already been processed and already known for some part who will be there in the new generation of admissions to the army, i.e. the Armed Forces of BiH. The question now is where the error is greater. Whether these people or those who need to come, or where we will sin more. However, here, I will now say some facts that each of us should commit whether to vote for these amendments and supplements or not. I said a little while ago in this replica of mine, but here I'm going to explain, that we're too late, or that it's too late here with this proposal. I don't have any of this proposal, but it's technically impossible to implement it so easily. And why is that? On 1st03th of this year, the Armed Forces fired 300 people and they were completed in the sense of termination of the contract as they had signed. They are no longer members of the BiH Armed Forces. What happens if these changes happen now? We can assume. Either return these 300 or have court proceedings, etc. Furthermore, what about 296 young people who have finished these days, or who are finishing these days of training and who are supposed to start instead of these 300 soldiers, is 296, because four have fallen off for some health reasons. So we should ask the question of what with the 296 procedures that have been completed, which have been said to be members of the Armed Forces of BiH, which are completing training, with which contracts have been signed? Someone's got to think about it. Furthermore, in 10.05, contracts were signed to start a new generation of 300 people. What about these people? I only ask a question to all of us. Are we too late for this or aren't we? I'm providing the actual data and, please, you can check it out, now that there's someone here from the BiH Ministry of Defence or Armed Forces, he would surely confirm this because these are the data that I got from them. And so I know their position, unfortunately, that it is impossible to respect, or accept these changes and complements from their side. Next, here, Mr. Šefik Džaferović said a lot of what I was going to say, through the adoption of the defence ministry's report, and our commission (which she gave in the debate on fate) of the Ministry... The armed forces, through the Trust Fund and the rest, and here, after our discussions on the commission, were debated... said that it was a big bite for the commission to take the fate of these people, i.e., the Armed Forces only into the hands of the commission, but to discuss it in this Parliament, and this debate is fully accepted. The transformation of personnel has been adopted. And it's a common-known thing. In this time, it is a defence review, which is a key document both with defence and with the Armed Forces of BiH further. It is neither logical nor possible that, at the time of the defence review, as a key document, legislation from the field of defence and security will change (now at the time of adoption of the defence review). I mean, we can take that as something that's not common, which is not normal, because if we want to bring in some kind of act and we want to say on the basis of an act that makes a team of people the most relevant to it, we're going to see what we're going to change, what we're not going to do, what we're going to do about it, etc. And now we'd like to go before that. I don't think that's possible. 59 Furthermore, there are errors here in an earlier period. For the transformation of the personnel and everything we've been talking about, the story has been since 2000. The RS military, who doesn't believe to check it out, almost fully respected it. And that's why he has less problems now than the Federation of BiH Army, which I understand. I feel sorry for these people, but someone at the time felt that it would be possible for the international community and other BiH state authorities to go over it and not have to respect it someday. Now, so far, it's been a pleasure, now it's come, you know, to charge for that cash that was made then, but it's, unfortunately, so. They can eventually be given, if there is no change and addition to this law, to exercise some kind of right when they are employed. In order to achieve this, it is already some other problem that someone would have to come up with, propose to this Parliament and possibly bring it... in what way that they simply have the championship or the right of priority of some kind in employment, etc. So here's the thing: We've already done a lot of things on this matter, so it's all about now. The funds that are being set aside, or saved, are now, for the release of these members of the Armed Forces, being redeployed to the funds of those who will join the army, or, in the Armed Forces. So it's now something that's spilling, but, if it's wanted, it's another question and it's got to be solved in another way, trying to solve the fate of these people who are fired by contract, then it's a whole other topic and it can't be the subject of an amendment and addition of this law. I'm really sorry that the fate of certain people is being debated in this way, and it's hard for them to help, but that's how it is, if I just said it at the beginning of this discussion, it's hard to predict where you're going to be more wrong. So either on one side or on the other, you can't satisfy both sides, I'm telling you. So if we accept this, then we ignore, that is, all these young potential soldiers who have already been trained, who have signed a contract for a new generation of training, etc., etc. So, here, from all this, if I helped, I'm glad, if I didn't, I'm sorry.
ParlaMint-BA_2010-04-21-0.u34486	Thank you. Replica, honourable MP Šefik Džaferović.
ParlaMint-BA_2010-04-21-0.u34487	One brief addition to my discussion, Mr. Chairman, I use the replica because I have no other way. I think it's important that I say this. We in our defense system, in the Defense Act, have a mandatory reserve system that represents half the professional composition. The minimum reserve is half a regular professional composition, the mandatory reserve is 5,000 people. Did we ever get a chance to analyze the mandatory reserve so far, let's see what we can do with these 1,600-1,700 people when it comes to the mandatory reserve? 60 [[Common discussion]] Mandatory, please, what about the mandatory reserve? Let's see what it is when, one is a professional composition, the other is a mandatory reserve. Let's see what we can do when it's a mandatory reserve. So, if there are any legal obstacles, if there are any interferences, if there's anything we're going to do. That's what nobody's ever talked about here.
ParlaMint-BA_2010-04-21-0.u34489	Thank you. Discussion, Salko Sokolović. Here you go.
ParlaMint-BA_2010-04-21-0.u34490	Thank you, Mr. Chairman. Well, well, here we have been discussing this topic for a long time, not just today, but at previous meetings of the Assembly. I don't have the ambition to say anything new about this issue, except to realize that mostly here today through these discussions, we can bid whether or not we can go to NATO, whether in this way or in such a way we can resolve the status of these people, and I think we should resolve their status. We should resolve their status for a number of reasons. It's one of the reasons that entity laws got rid of the status of their parliaments through those layoffs that have been here since 2000. So this number of people remains unsolved. One of the reasons why I personally want to resolve the status of these people is that the constitutional arrangement within BiH does not guarantee that they will find their jobs. So we didn't solve it. If we had a new constitutional, different constitutional arrangement, I might be discussing it in a different way. The example works, people in the Capljina area, Stoca, the Window, in these conditions, yet we Bošnjak are below an unequal people and I'm not sure we can get into a situation to hire these people. And we're going to enter the administration of Stoc and Capljina, and we're going to see that list from '91. It doesn't work, etc. I'm now saying a few things, to break out the illusions of those who think they can handle it very simply, and these are the people who return, these are the people who live downstairs, who have their families and when they run out of this job, then they come back from below. And I wouldn't want them to come back, because I've been working on this project all these years so that they can come back and BiH can live in the way it's supposed to live. Now, nobody's talking about it, nobody's taking care of it or taking care of it. The other thing is, we're talking about the backup system, how we're not talking. The amendments to this law are just opening up space to activate the reserve space, because the old law says that the soldier is both professional and spare up to 35 years. This is where the space opens. And if nothing, that's why we should support this legal solution. Look, I'd like someone to bring me that paper that says what NATO standard is. What I know is equipment and training. What is now a practice is that the other day, lists were made for Avganistan, and all those who signed, they remain in the army. Niko one asked them how old it was. That's my information. So we're no longer talking about the 2,200 figure, one part of the soldier was saved in one way or another through the civilian section, through 61 acts, one small part of the soldier remains. Here, I don't think this pension status is disputed either. Let's give these people a chance, then make a state pension fund. Why don't we make a state, what are we pushing all this on entities? Let's leave something which is the next step in which all the state, all the employees of the state institutions, including soldiers and police, etc., will be dealt with through pension status in that state pension house that no one is talking about, etc. Furthermore, I had information that the Butmir Agreement was a guarantee of the MAP in this area of the Armed Forces and with these soldiers. So there are various ways to balance it and to keep BiH going without being burdened. I disagree with Mr. Kalabić. Eh, I wouldn't vote, Mr. Kalabić, in 2005 for this law, if I were sitting in these parliamentary benches, only in this part, means, (which would certainly have noticed that the reserve composition and professional years), spare and professional years are the same – 35 years, so I would ask myself what the reserve composition means. I'd like to see these people taken care of. This is one fighting population, which has its colleagues who have been taken care of, and in no way does this legal solution open the possibility for these soldiers, the younger ones, who are coming, who are now to be recruited and to be members of the Armed Forces, to use these benefits. These benefits would only be used by those who are... Eh, there's a lot of questions open here now. And maybe the fact is, since we have real time, so, we have time, the guarantee for these people is until July, I don't think it's going to come out, it's not going to win, it's not going to happen to activate their contract. Here, I'd like to ask Mr. Lozančić to see the possibility again, and all those who have discussed it in such a way, to leave these 20 days to solve some of the indiscretions that have been brought here. Here, one's already been solved. The Directorate for European Integration has delivered its opinion and she says – since the issues being regulated by the bill are not regulated by legally binding EU acts, we cannot give an assessment, etc. So let's get this official memo, see what this is essentially about the MAP, NATO standard, whether this army structure can remain that way and see how financially difficult it really is. And here, I suggest right now, if it isn't, if there's a little bit of money missing, here, I'm the first one to give up 10% of the salary, I suggest that all MPs, ministers, all with a coefficient of over 4 give up 10%, that in the budget through the rebalancing, we settle it. But to be together and solve that problem. And then we draw the line and then I say, no more of that category of people, have some other armed forces with some new guys who haven't fought, who can count on four years of being in the army, so the fifth one will come out, but they're educated. 'Cause a lot of guys got into war here, and that's when their schooling got cut off. And if they could have been educated after that, acquired certain qualifications, maybe some of them should have been college-educated, but they couldn't. There were new moments in their private lives, so it couldn't have happened, etc. Here, I'd like, by respecting all the debaters here, to ask the promoter, it's not what sugar says that we might need it tomorrow, so let's use these 20 days ahead of us, to gather more of this additional paperwork that could be a guarantee that it's an undeniable approach to NATO, that there are enough financial resources, so that this is a general satisfaction for all of us. Here, I say, I pointed out one moment in person, which is why I have an obligation here to speak in one way. Thank you, Mr. Chairman. 62
ParlaMint-BA_2010-04-21-0.u34491	Replica, the esteemed Dr. Milorad Živković.
ParlaMint-BA_2010-04-21-0.u34492	Here, fellow Sokolović, to say that it was very difficult to change the amendments already agreed parts of the law and will remember those who were present that only (the reserve composition at the position that up to, or from 50% was a change, up to 50% did not pass that amendment). So then it was very difficult to change anything that was agreed on, because he was afraid there would be no solution. On the other hand, I think we're all responsible here. We are responsible because Ambassador Novaković also said this parliament is not responsible, he is responsible for law enforcement. He is responsible for monitoring the law's implementation, to monitor how the BiH presidency, the other institutions have implemented the law. I find out from unverified information that there's no backup. That no backup composition was formed. The law states that this reserve composition should exist, that it should be up to 50%, and we, as someone who should say, implements the law, or oversees how the law is implemented, have never opened the question in this House why has no law been implemented in that segment. We never even got an armed forces association. Either we didn't get it or I don't know that we got it, never asked to discuss it and that it would happen the way it happened and we'd try to discuss it in these five years since the law was passed. We didn't get any input from our military commissioner. So responsibility for everything, not responsibility just for the individual performance here. I think a compromise should be sought and we are open to compromise. I think that the compromise is in the position of forming this reserve composition and filling that reserve composition primarily from people who are now in a permanent composition of the Armed Forces and who should, by increasing the years that can be in that spare composition, be poured from one formation to another. I think there's a compromise that we can't make in a way to propose a law by emergency procedure, but in a way that we can talk to both the BiH Presidency and the Ministry of Defence and the Armed Forces and try the possibility that the law has already foreseen, the formation of a reserve composition, that we adequately make it and that primarily with these people who are out of work because of the law, we fill it in. Of course, part of the age law is changing. Thank you. Mr. Halilović, you have the right to discuss yet.
ParlaMint-BA_2010-04-21-0.u34493	No, not the discussion. I'll just, like, correct the wrong quote.
ParlaMint-BA_2010-04-21-0.u34494	I'm saying you've used that twice already. 63
ParlaMint-BA_2010-04-21-0.u34495	No, it was a replica. It's like correcting the wrong quote. I just want to tell you one more time, to repeat to you all here, I won't say another word, that we have a moral obligation to these people. The ones we put on in uniform in '91. Years and '92. And now we want to dump them on the street, and instead we want to take those who were born when we put them in uniform, that was why I was there, who made me so persistent. And then we patted them on the shoulder and promised them towers and cities and talked about how valuable gold was and how it would never come into this situation again, and I went through this situation, and I know what it looks like. That's why I'm so persistent here. You mustn't sin against these people. And the other thing is, there's something that's usually right, if we had an army here, and I can see from some information now that we had almost 600,000 members of the military, and we solved everything except this 2,000. I don't think we should question that for a moment. And every one of these distractions is about whether NATO, isn't NATO, is just an attempt to put this problem into another plan. I'm asking you one last time to have this fact in mind, when these people dressed in uniform, these were just born. So now you see who you have more responsibility and more responsibility to.
ParlaMint-BA_2010-04-21-0.u34496	Thank you. Replica, Reverend Mirko Okolić. Here you go.
ParlaMint-BA_2010-04-21-0.u34497	Thank you very much. Replica is Mr. Salka and Lagumdžija and I'm looking for an answer. Be careful, it is not true that members of the BiH Armed Forces, who go on a peacekeeping mission, can be persons older than those who join the peace mission. So this can't be true, that whoever goes on a peace mission, no matter how old he is, if he signed up to go... They have standards, too, and that's information that really isn't true. Furthermore, Mr Lagumdžija said the minister has the right to extend the contract to generals and officers. Okay, but you need to know that he has the right to extend to the soldiers as well. It says, changes and additions, it says, I'm 99% convinced and 1% I give the right not to, but 99% I think so. So if you want, we'll prove it. And finally, if this had been discussed a year ago, I would have certainly supported this for a number of reasons, and for moral, etc. But now I'm just asking a question, to support this, those who thought one way or another, no one answered me – what about these people I just talked about, and that's what with these new 296s that are in the final training, are signed contracts with them, what about those 300 with which the contract was signed that they would come to new training, with, I don't know, in May there, 10.05., here's the exact date. So we need to know what with those 600 people less than four, there. It's just that if I got that answer, I'd be more specific. Thank you. 64
ParlaMint-BA_2010-04-21-0.u34498	Thank you. Slavko Jovičić.
ParlaMint-BA_2010-04-21-0.u34499	The Honorable Chairman. Well, here, I'll leave some for the end of this most important topic. I ask a key question, it may not be an adequate jargon of this word, but it is not more picturesque – who put us all in this? And has this been going on since yesterday, since I was an MP, or do I not know of any other time? And at least this is for some cartoon or I don't know any statements. It's hard for people, we're all here to help them, but this looks like that movie -- the beachkeeper in the winter, when these people came here to strike, when that snow was. So they came, and neither did the beaches, those guards didn't... they ran out of work, etc. So this is one sad, tragic state-of-the-art combination of everything. And I repeat, who really is... so it's not the beginning, the end of the term, who's got us in all of this? The left side is empty, and that's what I've said at least 15 times, and that's what my grandmother would say, when I'm at the pay phone, that the left side is empty. First three chairs, first row empty. Second row, four chairs, empty. Third row, five chairs empty. And not to count further, always empty. And there should be those who need to give answers to what we do. So we're told by the finance minister, the rest of these people without a job, in the budget it's possible to find 100 million, 5, I don't know what the figures are, to pay them to collect this, the one and provide a job for the private business. That's not possible. So then the minister says, the NATO Pact commander or that Secretary General in Brussels says -- the limit is so much, but here we have sympathy for BiH, we want to drag you into the NATO Pact, make an exception to you, so it's not 35, here's 45. But those to whom we give 45 will not participate in the NATO Armed Forces because people are exhausted, so you will give us these new ones that you have received. So this strategy is neither there nor here, we're here to have fun about the misery, so these people who are not guilty say, well, brother, Jovičić, MP, every honor to him, defends us, or the other, every honor, sees this one against him, and I'll tell my neighbors, don't vote for him. It's like it's important, what's important is who's going to vote for who. Can we and in any way help these people, if we don't have the left-hand side to say – the attitude of NATO is a pact, it can't go on. I'll take that right away. It's the budget, there's no money, there's no money. This is the way it is, it's not. But there's a lot from Mr. Lozančić's law, so let's take it. So, we get into a situation, not guilty or indemnity, for nothing is responsible, because I won't accept anyone saying we're responsible. At least we were involved in this process of solving these people that came into existence a few years ago, not today. And it was known that this time would come, but it was waiting for us to solve it, and at least we had the options to solve it. We can make the law, so we've made a hundred decisions here, conclusions, even laws. Do they respect each other? What's their feasibility? And now we're all going to be performing with the thesis here, so this party wouldn't support it, in public tomorrow against these people. Or, they supported these people, and those who have just been admitted, look, they say, they're not letting us get a job. That's what you got on the bridge, lost on the pot. Whatever we conclude, someone will be unhappy. There is no contentment in this country. And those of us who make decisions are completely dissatisfied, we don't know what we're going to do, whom we're going to please, and in what way. 65 So without the left-hand side, people, we can't go any further. Someone has to tell me clearly, they can do this, they can't do that. I didn't negotiate with the NATO Pact so if I knew the position of that general there or when they come here, they won't call any MPs, they'll be a few of you from the Colleges there, they'll read you a reader, but the minister is negotiating. The BiH presidency receives them, they hold talks with them. Well, I guess they know the information, not the messenger Slavko Jovičić, who gets hot potatoes here, so push him to the left, right, I don't know who else to go to. What am I supposed to do now? I want to help these people, how? Based on my discussion, which is smart or stupid. Whatever it is. It's about money. It's about standards. How are we gonna solve this case? We can't, Mr. Chairman, you from the College, dear colleagues and colleagues, and even you waiting for a solution, is most important to you, without the left hand side, nothing to tell me what's possible, what isn't. And that, to end up just in my own style, a wonderful nickname, but I can't fly, and it always bothers me. Celebrate, I do, but I don't have wings to fly. Here's what I want to help these people, how? But I'm not going against myself, I'm not going against them, and I'm not going against the state the least. I'm not going against the state ever. I signed the oath here that I wouldn't go against the country, against the state. The first interest here must be BiH. How can I help these people, and then we can compose everything? But let them write a hundred times in a stenogram that I repeated as a parrot – my left hand side is missing to give me answers to these questions we hear all day long. They're gone. What do we do now? Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-BA_2010-04-21-0.u34500	Thank you. My fellow Members and fellow Members, I have allowed the discussion which has spread since the discussion on the request, to the discussion on the content for the simple reason that, after that, if we vote and support, let's say, the request, we will open the discussion on the law itself. This is how we put it together, so when we make a statement, we'll be able to make it easier to make a statement about each other. Here, in the end, the Proposer of the Law wanted to give the final word. Here you go.
ParlaMint-BA_2010-04-21-0.u34501	I thank you, Mr. President, and thank you, here, for allowing the debate to be opened and the request for procedure, but also the content of the law. And this debate has shown justification for the request and justification for the emergency procedure, given enough arguments that we are all very well, well aware of the subject so that we really don't need some extra time to inform ourselves. We are also informed that we have no position, neither the BiH presidency nor the BiH Council of Ministers, nor the Ministry of Defence, so we know that too. We know, we know everything, but what Reverend Jovičić finally said, we don't know how to help these people. Here, I'll answer right now. Support the request for procedure, Article 127, and support this law. That's the maximum maximum on which you and I can help these people and all of us here. And then we will demand responsibility from the Ministry and the Minister to enforce the law because the Minister and the Ministry must enforce the law, and we have a mandate to pass the law. I don't mean to irritate anyone for extra comments, but it works, here, paper, for a stenogram, I'm going to try to do the most banignant commentary. It is clear to all of you that it has reached 66 limits, that years of age, that these two thousand and some people are not our problem for the MAP or NATO. And it could be concluded through the debate that you're all aware of it. Military property, that's what they don't do. They have a problem, though, because we have a lot of inoperable locations that instead of training, like, guards guarding themselves. And I'm not sure that's according to NATO standards. Someone already mentioned, we need a trained and trained professional army. I'm not sure it's some training to be a guard next to some abandoned warehouse. And I said, and I'm confidently saying that 99% of their activities are a guard service in front of one of the institutions, a prospective or inspective military facility. Excess weapons and military equipment, they don't handle it either. And that's in the jurisdiction of someone else we mentioned today, and that's what they asked, at least me, of the NATO people when I talked to them about meeting the requirements for the MAP and for joining NATO. I think the argument that we're, like, late, that we should've done it before, might stand. But it's just like when the firemen are late. This is a fire intervention, I mean, responsible and frankly, I'm saying that this is a fire intervention, it's nothing else. Okasen and in the village burned five houses, and there are 15 others. He says we won't, when we haven't saved these five, we won't save these 15. I mean, here, that's about an argument about lateness. There's no reason why we shouldn't try to fix what someone possibly missed. I agree that the BiH Parliament had a report, however, I agree that the BiH Parliament is passing the law, so we have a procedure, a whole series of laws in amendments and amendments to the law. Why? Once we bring something, does that mean we can't change anything anymore? Well, it's not like that. We know it's not like that. So, this institute of change and complementarity just exists to address the shortcomings in laws, acts, to make them better, more enforceable, more quality, more humane, more humane, however you like, and to adapt to different forms of norms that are sought by society to which we belong and which it wants to achieve through legislation. I don't see, so the reason we're ashamed, here, is to change one of the laws so we can act morally, not to say anything different. So I don't see any reason. The plans adopted by the ministry, and we know that they existed and that they exist, and we heard that through the answer to the representative question of the respected Minister Cikotić, however, the plans as plans on paper mean nothing to us or to these people. We need to implement the plans. The problem is that the plans aren't implemented, so that's the problem. If the plans had been implemented, we wouldn't have had to discuss this at all today. And not to be insolent, when many of our officials in this country start spending more time in their offices than in airplanes, I believe there will be a lot more problems, including all of us in this room. So, it's not correct to say again, the fate of these people, we call for standards that don't actually exist as standards, that is, here's an imaginary category because we know in conversations with international officials and NATO officials that in NATO countries, which are already, meaning, NATO members, there's a age limit, 45 years, and that it's no big deal, with them trying to train you from 45 years of age, which we would say, as boys of 25. These through the guard service, only in the Armed Forces, will not be so trained, so it's a double aid. We're going to help these people, and we're going to make, if we support this bill's proposal, that the Armed Forces really win at their own quality and at the battle's end. I call on you once again to support the request for an emergency procedure under article 127 because you yourself said through the debate that you understood everything. The only question is whether or not we will support these solutions. There is no dilemma here, there is a dilemma in an article, so that something can change 67, so we can only accept or refuse to offer a solution. I call you, once again, to the question of a respected colleague, Jovičić, if we want to make a quality step, make one quality decision, if we want to help these people, support the procedure and ultimately support the bill. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-BA_2010-04-21-0.u34502	Thank you. I'm closing the discussion and I'm taking a break, since we're asked by a commission to adopt a list report to make a slightly bigger break by 3:30. [[PAUZA]] My fellow Members and fellow Members, the Extended College has made a small meeting, decided to try to do as many of these legal projects as possible, to vote on legal projects and appointments, if we don't finish with the other points of the agenda. We're on point four right now, Ad. 4. The request of the BiH Council of Ministers for consideration of the Proposal for a Law on the adoption of the Law on Amendments and Supplements to the Law on the Court of Justice of BiH under an urgent procedure, in accordance with Article 127. Rules of Procedure and Ad. 5. The request of the BiH Council of Ministers for consideration of the Proposal for a Law on the adoption of the Law on Amendments and Supplements to the Law on the Prosecutor's Office of BiH by an urgent procedure, in accordance with Article 127. Rules of Procedure
ParlaMint-BA_2010-04-21-0.u34509	Mr. Chairman, business, please.
ParlaMint-BA_2010-04-21-0.u34510	Business Ambassador Slavko Jovičić. Here you go.
ParlaMint-BA_2010-04-21-0.u34511	The Honorable Chairman, ladies and gentlemen. Just a few hundred yards from this seat, because of the media, are demonstrations, not for fear that tomorrow the journalists would not write that we here as without any concern keep some session important, irrelevant, whether conditions are created for the continuation of the session, not for our fear, because there have already been 100 special forces, here in the building, so please brief information to say, not because I fear that it will come, because it is not the jurisdiction of this Parliament to solve their problems, but do we have normal, created conditions for the continuation of the session, because it is not happening in Hungary, but 300-400 meters from here? There's already a big mess up there, pepper sprayed, and there's injured ones. That's why I'm looking for complete information that's more important than any of the points of this session's continuation. Not that we're getting out of here, I'm going to be the last one to stay here, because we're not to blame for the fate of these people, but to get to know whether normal conditions are created that this Parliament is working, not like we're sitting here right now and we're sleeping on our own, so something that we're discussing like nothing's happening there. That's where the people are. And it's full of police buildings, 100 cops. That's why I'm looking for that information, and it's more important if we have normal conditions to continue this session. Thank you.
ParlaMint-BA_2010-04-21-0.u34512	I think at the beginning of my address at the follow-up of this session after the break, I said that the Expansive College had set up a meeting, right about these events. That the majority mood was to continue the session and to deal with the laws on the agenda. I don't want to see any reason why we should be discussing now what you've raised the question. If the majority mood to change, what the Expansive College has agreed, we can put it to a vote, but I have transferred the majority position to the College. Dear Ambassador Ekrem Ajanović.
ParlaMint-BA_2010-04-21-0.u34513	There's no need.
ParlaMint-BA_2010-04-21-0.u34514	Thank you. Bakir Izetbegović. Here you go.
ParlaMint-BA_2010-04-21-0.u34515	I'm on the agenda, don't you think?
ParlaMint-BA_2010-04-21-0.u34516	Here you go.
ParlaMint-BA_2010-04-21-0.u34517	So another comprehensive and comprehensive report, the BiH Central Bank's Annual Report. I thank you for this report that really provides information, the one who cares about everything about the global local state of affairs. So, I'm glad to see that the global crisis is escalating, that there are clear signs of recovery that certainly depends on this local one, too, is it, that will be late in a certain sense and in a certain period, relative to global trends, but it will certainly follow those trends as well. And our reaction to the domestic market and the economy to the global economic crisis didn't get that depth and that weight we were afraid of. So, a stable banking sector, good work of the Central Bank of BiH, a stable currency. I thank you, therefore, for the report. I support the report on behalf of the SDA MPs' club and we will support it. Thank you. 71
ParlaMint-BA_2010-04-21-0.u34518	Here, I'm sorry, I'd like to put these two points together, 10 and 11. Ad. 11. Financial reports from the Central Bank of BiH for 2009 A financial report by the Central Bank of BiH and the Annual Report of the Central Bank of BiH, if you are in the mood to discuss and discuss both one and the other reports, I think it would be good to unite these two points of the agenda. Dear Ambassador Sadik Bahtić. Here you go.
ParlaMint-BA_2010-04-21-0.u34520	Thank you. I will also commend the Central Bank's report on the work of the Central Bank of BiH in front of the commission because a few years ago, the Central Bank of BiH's report has always been commended to the Finance and Budget Commission. First of all, also, the Central Bank always receives a positive audit report. This report is good, there is no policy in it, it paints a real economic situation in BiH. In my opinion, the BiH Central Bank's responsible, their public presence, give a positive picture of BiH's economy in the macroeconomic field and believe that BiH citizens have full confidence in the Central Bank of BiH as opposed to individual other state institutions. Also, the commission noted that when it comes to foreign reserves, domestic relations, the central bank is being cautious about policy-making. Central Bank policy, so nothing changes this year compared to the previous year. Only this deficit threatens foreign exchange reserves. We know that the recession... In my opinion, this Central Bank report should be given to all governments, especially the Council of Ministers of BiH, because it is to be introductive (?) in the construction of business policy. Finally, once again, it means to commend this report, because, believe me, on the Commission, all the members of the Commission have given praise. Thank you.
ParlaMint-BA_2010-04-21-0.u34521	Thank you. Replica, the esteemed representative Bakir Izetbegović.
ParlaMint-BA_2010-04-21-0.u34522	So it's not a replica, it's a continuation of the discussion, but I didn't know how to apply, since you've united these two reports. Now, in this second report, the BiH Central Bank's financial report, for me, I'm an engineer, I'm not an economist, one vague thing 72, so I'm going to ask for an explanation. So the total, comprehensive profit of the current year 2008 was 232 million, and this year is 60. What's a drastic fall like this for? _________(?) There's no one here. There's no one here, is there? _________(?) There's no one here.
ParlaMint-BA_2010-04-21-0.u34524	Here, we have information that the Governor of the Central Bank of BiH will join us soon.
ParlaMint-BA_2010-04-21-0.u34525	Nothing, then I'll do it again when he gets here. So we have last year 232, in the last 60 million earnings. Drastic fall.
ParlaMint-BA_2010-04-21-0.u34526	microphone not enabled
ParlaMint-BA_2010-04-21-0.u34527	Well, here, let him say it.
ParlaMint-BA_2010-04-21-0.u34528	I thank the esteemed representative Izetbegović. The following has been reported by the esteemed representative Lazar Prodanović.
ParlaMint-BA_2010-04-21-0.u34529	Mr. Vice-President, distinguished colleagues and fellow MPs. I would like to join the previous views that for the fourth year in a row, since we are in this House's assembly, we have a positive, extremely serious report by the Central Bank of BiH, both on the overall developments and on its financial business. The BiH Central Bank in the past year had quite aggravating circumstances, in fact, we faced the consequences of the economic and financial crisis in the world and one of the reasons was that it was significantly lower than the deputy, vice governor of the Central Bank of BiH, who informed us that, in fact, (deposits were only in safe banks), foreign banks and lower interest rates were the main reason, but they did not go to risk and that they followed, therefore, the recommendations of the Central Bank of BiH Management Board and these structures that decided on it. 73 What concerns BiH last year, after many years, had a negative growth rate - minus 3.2%. That's disturbing. Also in last year, BiH has shown alarming budget deficits of all levels of government. All this arrangement that has been made with the International Monetary Fund will, in fact, help, in some ways, but if public spending is not reduced, we will, I'm convinced, next year, especially in this year's election year, face a much more dramatic state, regardless of possible recovery. Also, production growth has been reduced, negative, which in some respects has had some shifts in some branches, it is worrying that we have had negative trends in construction and in some significant industries, which in some sense does not give some optimism, loss of jobs and all that is followed. Citizens' credits in the past year are also significantly lower, at a lower level, while interest rates, therefore also in these credits for citizens and for business loans, compared to the environment, are still dramatically high. In that sense, I believe that these reports, as counterpart Bahtić said, would have to be the subject of an analysis of all levels of government in BiH and in terms of responsibility for taking on a higher degree of responsibility for creating conditions for BiH's fiscal stability. I believe that this activity of the Central Bank of BiH is extremely positive, because no matter what the situation is, monetary stability in the country has been preserved, therefore, no dramatic expression of any of the other flows, although it is necessary to do more on the citizens' trust in terms of deposits in the armed or short-term savings, with particular reference to the fact that, compared to the end of 2008, it grew, therefore, more citizens' confidence in saving in banks than it was in late 2008. It should also be considered to increase the amount of deposits that would somehow guarantee and be a higher degree of motivation to save citizens. Thank you.
ParlaMint-BA_2010-04-21-0.u34530	I'd like to thank the esteemed representative of Prodanović. Next is Honorable Representative Rifat Dolić.
ParlaMint-BA_2010-04-21-0.u34531	Gentlemen chairman, colleagues and colleagues, distinguished guests. As part of my discussion, I have a few questions, I don't know if it's useful to ask them at all now, since there's no governor. But here, I'll set them up, so if there's nothing else, I'll ask the governor to answer me in writing. So, first of all, I must express my gratitude and my satisfaction that through this report I have received not only the report, i.e. the Annual Report of the Central Bank of BiH, but that I have also received complete indicators of economic developments in BiH. It would make sense that we got these indicators from the BiH Council of Ministers, in their report, but here, and this is proof that the Central Bank of BiH, with all the restrictions it has, is the only light point of the economic and legal system of BiH. I have no, therefore, technical, essential objections to this Central Bank report, but I have a need and I would be grateful for the answers to a few questions, and I am particularly glad that the governor also came in the meantime. 74 The first question is – Is there any thought or initiative that some monetary policy instruments, which are now not available, are being put into operation by the country's economic policy instruments and, in your opinion, would this have any positive effect in the present situation? Secondly, how reliable and strategic is it to make buying and selling conversion marks by the Central Bank of BiH the most significant indicator of monetary developments in BiH? Then – How much payment in euro and other currencies, which are made outside of payment traffic, has an impact on monetary developments in BiH? Are there reliable indicators of the movement of foreign exchange accounts of our citizens from the diasopore, especially those that occur outside monetary authorities, outside banks? How do monetary developments in BiH affect the issue of bonds in the Federation of BiH and the RS and their turnover on the stock exchanges? And the last question – what are the reasons why the record reduction in the interest rate of the European Central Bank and the EURIBOR did not have any practical impact on the reduction of active interest rates in BiH, and that difference was at one time 7.20 percentage points, indicating that business banks in BiH, not only were not in the function of anti-crisis policy, but that they could also talk about certain interest rates. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-BA_2010-04-21-0.u34532	I thank the honourable representative, Dolić. The next is distinguished representative Velimir Jukić, and I am taking the opportunity to welcome the governor of the Central Bank of BiH who joined us.
ParlaMint-BA_2010-04-21-0.u34533	Dear President, colleagues and colleagues, representatives of the BiH Council of Ministers, the Governor of the Central Bank of BiH, respected guests. I want to welcome you and thank the Central Bank for doing one, I would say, and methodologically content quality report, and in fact we're used to getting such reports in the previous years. This report is very important, in fact, giving the most fundamental economic and macroeconomic indicators based on which we can assess what the situation is, not only in the economy, the economy and the BiH economy, but also on what is the general state of BiH in much of the aspects, that is, parts. Here, I'll start with the order of your thoughts. So in the last year, marked by recession and downsizing, a GDP decline of 33.5% was reported. When compared to the environment, it is relatively smaller, so the decline is smaller than in some countries of the environment, and significantly smaller than in some countries it is coastal and central European where it is in some and over 10%. The only two countries that have actually recorded a positive trend are Albania, which is, to us, in some sense, both neighbouring or semi-consistencies and Poland. What needs to be concerned, and this is particularly indicated here, which is that in the last year and part of this year that preceded it, there has been a change in and a distortion of fiscal stability, generally seen in BiH, where we have a situation that, in addition to reducing real income, there has been an increase in consumption. Of course, it can only happen in a way that this consumption is financed from 75 other sources, by responsibilities. And we have a very significant budget deficit that has been expressed here through the deficit in another entity and it can be said that from the institutions of the government, or, from the level of the budget... the BiH institutions have been, I would say, responsible and have not conducted such policies and such behaviour that would result in the deficit. What is worrying is the level of deficits in entities, though there have been speeches and stories in the media that the worrying fiscal stability and liquidity of the budget and budget, in the plurality of the Federation of BiH, is nevertheless seen by these figures that the situation in the budget, or the budgets of the Federation of BiH, is somewhat better than the state of the RS budget, which should certainly be concerned all of us together because the deficits in the Federation of BiH budget are compared to annual revenues somewhere around 15% to 20%, and in the RS, and significantly more. I think this is one situation that needs to be discussed in this House. Of course, this is within the jurisdiction of a newly formed institution, therefore, of the Fiscal Council, which, by its composition, is, again, whether it includes representatives, the most responsible people from entity governments, therefore, prime ministers and resolution ministers of finance, and I expect that, following the implementation of the commitments made by the IMF and the stand-by arrangement, we will sort of resuscitate and stabilise these opportunities. Otherwise, if that doesn't happen, it doesn't seem like a good situation at all. In fact, one more thing I want to mention here, as an interesting thing in this report, is the fact that some data is, as it says, done here, written on the basis of some research, and it's about employment and unemployment data, instead of being, however, just a collection of existing statistical data from institutions, so I mean here and the entity statistical institutions. We, unfortunately, do not have to that extent built statistics, statistics institutions, that infrastructure needed, so we have to have some very important data, that all other countries have because they run them, they keep records in one quality way, we have to sort of, and evaluate them, so that sometimes we have really questionable how much data we can... how credible and reliable they are, because they, here, in some ways, are evaluated. What needs to be concerned, except, here's a significant budget deficit, is about the structure of employees in our country. I don't know, if this is accurate data, then this really needs us all worried, although there's a little contradiction from one side to the other, or, one side to the other table. When it's said that 21.2% of our employees work in agriculture, which is an incredibly large share to me, I think it's still a matter of approach, or, calculated, I don't think so. And the more interesting thing is the trend in employment growth in agriculture. And yet at the same time, according to, again, the data that I say is really often questionable in credibility, the fact that imports, i.e., food production does not increase, or that food imports do not decrease. So if we have an increase in employment in this sector, then we have, then, a reduction in the efficiency of employees, i.e. the overall sector. But well, that's a subject that can be interesting. Azra warns that the Central Bank report... yes, but those reports... I don't see any data but in this report, so unfortunately, it's again a flaw that speaks of the way we report in our country. What I also want to say and I think it's important to point out, which is, directly foreign investment, where we have a report, so the situation so that foreign investments have fallen in recent years and have a drastic decline. So we have that in 2007, there were 1.4 billion marks, one and a half billion marks, to burn in 2009 to only 500 million marks. Although the trend continues to decline, this is what should certainly be concerned about at this time of recession, and here is a bit of an economic crisis. 76 And one more thing, so I won't be long, and that's a little bit about the deficit... account, therefore, of our country's external trade deficit. In the last year, he reduced significantly and significantly, which is good. However, it decreased primarily thanks to reduced imports and slightly reduced exports. But still it's reduced quite significantly, it's reduced by almost 2 billion KM, or 29% compared to the one from the previous year, or 2.7 billion, I'm sorry, I said wrong. So this is one, however, positive fact, positive thing, and here I would kind of comment on the role of CEFTA, as much as we've criticised here, etc. The other day I was on occasion at one of Parliament's meetings for Europe to talk precisely about the effects of the application of this agreement where people show very precisely on the basis of the data and prove that the effects of CEFTA are actually for bh. the economy generally good, not bad. So, also those who often speak the opposite and say that the direction of the BiH Council of Ministers' commitment, when it comes to this, is bad and completely guilty, I think it is not, that it is correct and correct and that the solution for BiH is precisely in the acceptance and liberalisation of relations with our neighbours, and besides that is our obligation under the Stabilisation and Association Agreement, because if we want to be partners, if we want to be a member of the EU tomorrow, we must accept it and, of course, use everything that brings us these integrations as an advantage. Of course, there are certain problems, but our economy, our economy, must adapt to be ready to use all the benefits and benefits of a large market without restrictions, customs, barriers, etc. someday. Here, I really won't be long...
ParlaMint-BA_2010-04-21-0.u34534	And no more, your time is up.
ParlaMint-BA_2010-04-21-0.u34535	... once again I thank everyone and the Central Bank of BiH for, however, here I have criticised the credibility of some data, however, we do not have a more comprehensive report besides this one that can tell us what the general state and movement of these most important indicators in our country is. Thank you.
ParlaMint-BA_2010-04-21-0.u34536	I thank the esteemed representative Jukić. The next is distinguished representative Husein Nanić.
ParlaMint-BA_2010-04-21-0.u34537	I thank you, Chairman. I'd just like to take the opportunity, before the governor comes out, to give his consideration to the question and perhaps this report, on page 37. - 1.2.7.point – Government's external debt. In a few sentences, it tells us, since BiH was found to have risen in 2009, the government's external debt to 5.1 billion and it is higher by 22.6% compared to 2008. And being like this may be a disturbing thing to me, but you need to give certain information about it. 77 And the following, especially as further stated in this section, is that, in view of the finding here that there is a lot of attention to be paid, especially to rationalise borrowing needs and that here in this debt, this is only government debt, that this external debt is not included, meaning, agreed but unengaged assets and that we do not have data here on the debt of the private sector. And the conclusion further that, regarding macroeconomic stability, it is necessary to devote, in a period that is coming, very much attention to borrowing. In that sense, does this mean, in this context, when it is said that the unrecorded funds have not yet been recorded, has this period recorded a new arrangement, a stand-by arrangement with the IMF, the World Bank, etc., is this total debt...? And what is the view of the Central Bank of BiH, i.e. other possibly BiH institutions, of what attitudes regarding the further borrowing of BiH and potential projects and plans in that segment? Thank you.
ParlaMint-BA_2010-04-21-0.u34538	I thank the esteemed representative, Nanić. The next is a respected representative of Azra Hadžiahmetović.
ParlaMint-BA_2010-04-21-0.u34539	Thank you, Chairman. Here, and I'll say, like Velimir Jukić at first, that I won't be longer. But here, of course, all praise the reports we get really, above the usual standards, according to one methodology that provides enough material for all those who want to discuss agriculture. All, therefore, praise the functioning of the Central Bank of BiH. I would open one question perhaps more in terms of and suggestions to the governor to potentially indicate critical areas, potentially critical areas for functioning... points, i.e. the stability of the monetary sector and the banking sector in BiH. In fact, the Central Bank of BiH may be a good example of how, for example, the established rules of independence of one institution and the strict rules of functioning of the monetary arrangement provide good business to the Central Bank of BiH itself, of course, thanks to the Governing Council, i.e. the governor of the Central Bank. However, the circumstances in which the Central Bank of BiH and our stable monetary arrangement can now operate may also be subject to discussion, (the areas decided by this Parliament), which is whether, in any way, because of the risk factors that lead to impaired fiscal stability, reduced signs, a way of reflecting all of this on the reserves, does it possibly not come into question, therefore, the stability of the monetary sector, this parliament can possibly, by changing some laws, allow the Central Bank of BiH to play a more active role? I ask this question for one reason, i.e., I would like to draw attention to the reason why this Parliament had the opportunity, in its own time, to show about certain provisions, amendments to laws that would allow the Central Bank of BiH and the role of the bank of the last haven, i.e. in some way a proactive role that could react in situations such as the times in which our economy and the world economy are currently at the moment. And in that sense, here is a suggestion to the governor – are there risks and how to avoid risks, that is, what this parliament can do to warn, or reduce the risks of future action that could potentially endanger, is stability and monetary arrangement and the function of the Central Bank of BiH? 78
ParlaMint-BA_2010-04-21-0.u34540	I thank the distinguished representative Hadžiahmetović. The next is distinguished representative Bajazit Jašarević.
ParlaMint-BA_2010-04-21-0.u34541	The Honorable Chairman, the Honorable Ladies and Gentlemen Representatives. I ask the Honorable Governor to refer to the operations of the Central Bank of BiH in his presentation from the point of view of foreign reserve management, starting with the principles of investment security. I still don't have to explain, so the question is pretty clear. I keep it very important, regardless of what is written extensively in the report, to make a public statement about it. And another thing I would like to ask to be allowed on page 29, in which the government's finance chapter stands, is that I consider it important in every day, and in today's particular, the fiscal situation in the country was worsened in 2009 and under marked negative pressures. Unlike the period between 2003 and 2007, when fiscal consolidation was present and even the achievement of surpluses, as a consequence, the growth of public revenues, but also the relatively responsible spending of governments in this period, already in 2008, and then in 2009, policies of balanced income and expenditure were abandoned. The reasons are, on the one hand, in the growing current government spending, the result of earlier decisions on social benefits, as well as the increase in salaries in public administration, while, on the other hand, there is no longer a significant increase in revenue from indirect taxes. I find it very important that we have this grade, as a diagnosis of the situation in BiH, from the Central Bank of BiH. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-BA_2010-04-21-0.u34542	There are no more registered deputies. I welcome once again the Governor of the Central Bank of BiH, Mr Kemal Kozarić, and I urge him to address the PSBiH House of Representatives.
ParlaMint-BA_2010-04-21-0.u34543	Honorable Presidency, esteemed MPs, MPs. It is an honor and a pleasure to have the opportunity to address you today and, behold, I hear a series of thoughts about our Annual Report and the Financial Report. I think that in 2009, we spent in a rather difficult, turbulent environment where, of course, the economic crisis had a strong impact on BiH as well, and that throughout 2009, we were mainly trying to fulfill our first task, which is monetary stability, and then, of course, financial stability. You certainly know that our mandate is limited and that we are engaged in monetary policy and that we are working in the system of the monetary committee that gives, I would say, one discretionary monetary policy with a limited number of monetary instruments so that we only had one instrument in our hands, and that is a mandatory reserve, which we used on three occasions to keep the banking sector inequitable, and I would say that we succeeded because none of the banks in BiH, and 30 of them, was indivisible for any day. 79 Also, we had initial anxiety at the end of 2008 and in early 2009 where cca 800 million were withdrawn from banking channels and where commercial banks responded to all their depositors' demands, so that already in the 9th month 2009 cca 600 million were returned to banking channels, which says that trust, which was on one major questionnaire, was still held at one significant level. On the other hand, here, I can immediately say that after a number of years where we recorded, however, economic growth, this is the first year that we had negative economic growth and we had a GDP drop of minus 3.2%. Then, unemployment, unfortunately, is our worst macroeconomic indicator, increased by 0.7% and now stands at 24.1%, so somewhere around 40,000 jobs are lost. Then, one of the MPs mentioned it, we record a 17% drop in exports, but also a 26% drop in imports, and with that, this is also an answer to the question of this reduction in the external trade deficit of 2.7 billion, which is a good indicator in this whole, but it is not a reflection of some economic policy, not some of our specific activities, but simply this situation of the decline in imports that had a direct impact on the external trade deficit. On the other hand, the reserves were pretty stable. We ended a year with 6.1 billion, and I generally think that in this first quarter they had a slight decline, but here, they've already returned to the level of 6 billion, which clearly says that this currency board, although quite conservative, gives us, however, the right to promise to maintain this monetary stability in the next period and that we'll probably stay on that colossal of that conservatism that is the rule, is, I would say, one trend today in monetary policy and other countries in the environment and beyond. On the other hand, I can answer a series of questions right away. I'm sorry I didn't come to the beginning of the discussion, but what I've heard from the distinguished MPs, so can the Central Bank of BiH have more monetary instruments? So, the BiH Parliamentary Assembly, the House of Representatives that I am in today, is the only institution that can give greater or less authority to the Central Bank of BiH, so we may have been, by now, in a limited term, but that is not an accident. So this model that we have, it's being introduced into macroeconomicly unstable areas, and we, unfortunately, are in such an environment today, so on that side, let's say, crediting the state, lending commercial banks, that's all forbidden and we of course didn't do it. But here, perhaps in the next period, conditions will be created, especially what the distinguished representative Azra Hadžiahmetović said, the role of the last resort because we now have some net free reserves where we could accept, let's say, the role played by other central banks. On the other hand, is the only monetary aggregate selling domestic currency? Unfortunately, apart from the mandatory reserve, we actually follow the monetary mass of M1, M2, M3, just like that to see the entrance – the output of the domestic currency by commercial banks, and through them and citizens, and the real sector. On the other hand, the presence of the euro, since it is our official, anchor currency, does not bother the domestic currency and is not prohibited, although under the Law on Payments is the only KM official means of payment, but it is not prohibited if the two sides agree to traffic and the euro, so if we ever get to that Europe, I think it will be a technical issue for us to replace it because all the complete monetary passage is covered by a solid currency. And otherwise this rule, so it doesn't allow you to release your domestic currency without a solid cover. 80 As far as the evidence is concerned, they are somewhere approximately 3 billion and 200 million KM and are, unfortunately, 17%, because apparently our citizens abroad suffer the consequences of the economic crisis and, I would say, are more restrictive and are planning their own personal budgets more carefully, so we have a drop in these figures. On the other hand, when it comes to interest rates in BiH, we know that the formation of interest rates is free and that the offer and demand for funds defines the level of interest rates and I would say that we cannot be referenced to the EURIBOR rate and to the European Central Bank rate because, unfortunately, BiH still has a very high risk of the country. So that risk of a country where, unfortunately, we'd be much better off in another field, but our credit rating is B plus with a stable advert, and that's still a speculative level, where investors, so with one dose of caution, should invest. And this may be the answer to the esteemed representative Jukić who has well noticed that almost 50% of the foreign direct investment is, because in the crisis, of course, everyone is much more cautious than it was before. On the other hand, the fiscal position was threatened in 2009 and we first recorded a deficit of about 4.7% at all levels in BiH, and therefore the Fiscal Council unanimously decided to go to a new stand-by arrangement, and this is the answer and the esteemed representative Nanić, which is why there has been a 21% leap in this public debt because already in 2009 we received the first tranche of the stand-by arrangement, and, behold, we have recently received the third and fourth tranche, which clearly states that the public debt of the country has increased to 5.1 billion and still stands at 22% of the GDP, which is not too large and we are considered to be a moderately in charge of the country. Here, you have examples from our neighborhood where their external debts are almost 100% GDP. So that BiH had no problem serving its external obligations, and I hope that it will not have that challenge in the coming period. When it comes to the challenges or pressures of the board, as asked by prominent representative Azra Hadžiahmetović, it is clear that the level of public spending we have today, which is approximately 45% at the level of BiH, or something less in the RS and something more in the Federation of BiH, is in the long term difficult to finance such a weak real sector. On the other hand, unemployment that is 24.1% is also pressure. And here today, what's happening in Sarajevo is more of a product of what people are unemployed and not having enough work to do than they expect some help, because apparently our budgets can't serve all those who have been admitted to that budget today. The downfall, I mentioned, we have to work with our diaspora, with our citizens abroad, and we can't be permanent. The category that once left BiH, the first generation has a warm relationship with the homeland, and already the second and third generations will have another approach, so that we must motivate them to come as investors, to come here, to create more favourable conditions for them to invest, to take advantage of these capacities, and, of course,... those people who are certainly educated there, and to get some new knowledge and new features when it comes to access to business. On the other hand, foreign exchange reserves, the esteemed representative Jašarević asked, I can say responsibly that we have not had any losses on foreign exchange reserves, and we, I would say, changed investment policy in time and moved all our reserves from commercial banks, which were in the smallest rating of commercial banks 2 minus, to EU central banks, so that they are now located in Germany, France, Luxembourg and, therefore, in 3A ratings countries, so we have not had any fanning losses. And here, you probably noticed that we even made a profit of some cca 95 million. We have already transferred 57.8 million for BiH institutions. 81 What to say next. ... The BiH Central Bank is in full capacity, I would say, an independent institution. Financially, we are making revenues and financing and, behold, we are also forwarding some of the revenue for BiH institutions. On the other hand, human beings, so we must be apolitical, we are not members of any political party and complete leadership is chosen in a special way. On the other hand, legally, we have our law that passes this parliament, so that our work is defined by our law and, behold, it has given us that position to be, I would say, an institution, in the right sense, all BiH citizens. On the other hand, can we do better? Of course we can do better, but surely we should be given certain functions, but I think that still now, especially in this election year, this package should not be opened, probably after the election, to see if the Central Bank of BiH, and I responsibly argue that we are ready, institutionally ready to take on greater responsibility to be in greater capacity and to benefit the citizens of BiH. Thank you.
ParlaMint-BA_2010-04-21-0.u34544	I thank the esteemed Governor of the Central Bank of BiH, Mr Kemal Kozarić, for this quality report and for quality and concise address. I'm no longer in charge of the debate, and I'm holding up a debate on these two agenda points. We're moving to agenda 12, Ad. 12. Report on the work and business of BiH Radio Television 2009 – (subsistent: Supervisory Board of RTV BiH) In 30.03.2010, the BiH Management Board submitted a report on the work. The competent Commission for Transport and Communications delivered its opinion on 20.04.2010 with one adopted conclusion, which reads – The Parliamentary Assembly of BiH's House of Representatives is urging all those responsible at all levels of government to respect the conclusions of the PSBiH House of Representatives relating to the public broadcasting system in BiH. I'm opening a debate on the report. I welcome the present, president and members of the RSVBiH Management Board. Dear Representative Remzija Kadrić.
ParlaMint-BA_2010-04-21-0.u34546	I thank you, Chairman. I just want to point to two things in this report very briefly here. The first thing I'm trying to say is, there's probably a mistake here and she shouldn't be like this to stay in some final report. Here on page 1, in the introduction, it is said among other things – The Working Group for the establishment of a corporation worked intensively on the adoption of corporate statutes where 82 non-compliance of the entity broadcaster law with the RS Radio-Television Act, as a roof law, proved to be an insurmountable obstacle. It's probably a mistake. She can't stand a sentence like this and she should get right. It's probably talking, thinking of the BiH Radio Television Act. So this is probably some kind of printing error or some other kind of mistake that shouldn't... if this formulation were to stand in this final report, it should be corrected. And secondly, when it comes to, on page 6, this fee, it's good to pay the fees employed in BiH's Radio-Television, it's such a positive thing. And the other thing, perhaps a little missing here, should have been said here, at least according to this information that I have, that members of the Management Board receive two basics – (from the Board, compensation and for the membership of the BiH Radio-Television Management Board and for membership in the System Management Board). So these are things that should not be practice and that these board members should have one fee for working on boards. So that's the two things I wanted to say. So this, especially this first sentence should, if it's a technical mistake, and it is likely, to correct itself, not stand as it is written. Thank you.
ParlaMint-BA_2010-04-21-0.u34547	Thank you. Dear Ambassador Slavko Matić. Here you go.
ParlaMint-BA_2010-04-21-0.u34548	Thank you, Mr. President. Dear colleagues and fellow MPs, honored guests. Mr. Dokić, on behalf of the Committee for Transport and Communications, should have said something about this, and since he had certain obligations, asked me to say a few words on behalf of this committee. As Mr Lozančić said in the introduction of this point earlier, the Committee for Transport and Communications accepted this report almost unanimously with one abstention. And I just want to highlight two three things. One is very important, that after several previous reports for the past year, this time the report was reached by the Committee for Transport and Communications and the Parliamentary Assembly of BiH in a way that fully harmonised the view of BHRT's management and the Management Board. What, of course, is not good that the situation on BHRT remains difficult, that there is still a significant financial loss, that there are significant financial claims, above all from the Federal TV and from the revenues achieved by marketing and that it is found that much of these claims are not available in the short term. It is certainly important to highlight the opinion of the Management Board that the management of BHRT on this occasion, and through this report for work and business in the last year, did everything to establish good foundations for a quality recovery plan and financial consolidation in this very important institution, i.e. public house. The conclusion proposed by our commission concerns exactly the part of the problems that my colleague Kadrić had little to say about, because we had information on the currently unconformed parts of the Law on 83 entity public services with the Law on the Public TV System, which was adopted at BiH level, on this commission. The discrepancy came primarily from the law passed by the Federation of BiH Parliament to continue to do so later and through the RS Assembly's reaction, dom, which part is still not sure whether it is in force, since the Constitutional Court is still under discussion. Our conclusion again appeals to all levels of government, above all, is thought of these two entities and their discrepancies in public service laws. We, last year, seem to have adopted one conclusion, when considering one of these financial statements, at the proposal of our Finance and Budget Committee, where we call on lower levels of government to, however, agree with the framework law, that is, the Law on the Public TV System. It hasn't been done yet, this is now just a re-appeal to get something done. Thank you.
ParlaMint-BA_2010-04-21-0.u34549	Thank you. Dear Ambassador Husein Nanić. Here you go.
ParlaMint-BA_2010-04-21-0.u34550	I thank you, Chairman. Here I think for the first time in this term, so in this fourth year we get united and in a simple and very high-quality way presented the work of the Management Board of our service. From this document we can see all the problems you face, you wouldn't repeat things, anyone who's interested can see them. And what Mr. Matić said, those things that I wanted to add, it's obvious that in the past year, the loss of 6.6 million marks was. The consequences of this loss and the possible elimination of the consequences, I think that the Management Board here is bound by hands, that neither the management nor the Management Board will be able to remove the causes of this loss from what has already been said, inconsistencies (e.g. entity broadcasters) with (public BHRT Law). And the next thing I'd be here... so that's what's probably gonna meet us, too, in the next year's report. And that is why it is up to us to launch these initiatives and support these activities that have come from the commission regarding positions on the situation in this system. We have a situation that, here, another one of the institutions that, the members of the Management Board, are running out of mandate, and we don't see the launch of the activity to solve this thing, so to one member, it means, at the 11th month, the term of office has expired and I think that another institution is still... so another institution is opening up, along with the very many institutions we already have, which do not have its own management structures. And the third thing I would mention here, it's not directly related to the work report this year. What the Governing Board expects, i.e. the management and management bodies in the following year, is a digitalisation process for which the Council of Ministers of BiH still has no answer as to how this will be done, who will lead it, how much it costs, etc., so that this is one challenge for this institution that will need to lead it (?) and make commitments through the Council of Ministers, those we have taken over regarding future digitisation projects. Thank you. 84
ParlaMint-BA_2010-04-21-0.u34551	Thank you. Is there a need for any of the board members? The chairman of the board of directors, Mrs. Putica. Here you go.
ParlaMint-BA_2010-04-21-0.u34552	Good afternoon. I would like to thank the honourable representatives for the questions raised and for their expressed interest in the overall business and the situation in which BHRT is located. Indeed, in the opening part, there was a mistake where instead of the public RTD system standing at RTRS and we are in front of the Management Board, I apologize for this error. The following question was raised concerning the question of compensation received by BHRT Management Board members for their work in the Public TV System. I will remind myself that the Law on the Public TV System clearly states that the members of the System Committee have the right to work on the System Committee, which is entirely separate from the work of the Board of Entity Broadcasters. We have not made such a decision on the Board of Directors of BHRT. I will recall that the Committee of the System numbers a total of 12 members and that two boards of directors that were established after us have made such a decision where they receive compensation on this basis and only afterwards have the decision been taken on the Public TV System Committee to evenly receive all 12 members of the System Committee. The following questions were related, i.e., to the financial loss of claims from Federal TV, etc. As for claims from Federal TV, they are really high and seriously burdening the total BHRT business. For example, BHRT has to allocate work fees for 400 BHRT employees who provide services exclusively for the functioning of the Federal TV programme every month. However, we have sued most of these claims as to our right and our obligation, but we also stand at the point of view that we will find all the opportunities for BHRT to maintain its business without in any case denying the services to Federal TV because this would completely prevent the functioning of this public broadcaster. So Federal TV is in a pretty bad financial position and they are not able to meet their obligations, but this is the consequence of BHRT and will suffer for a long time. As for the financial loss, in our report we showed the structure of this accumulated loss. It came before, in the years (before 2006) and unfortunately approached the total amount of 21 million marks. In the report, you also see the manual structure of this loss, and it is clear here that BHRT Management and Management Board have harmonised the situation in their business books, in line with the recommendations of commercial audit and state audit. We are likely to be expected to question, as members of the Governing Board and representatives of the BiH Parliament, how can BHRT overcome these financial problems and get on the path of a more successful business? According to the data I received from the BHRT Financial Service, as the tv tax is collected by entity broadcasters, and BHRT does not have an active function, therefore, according to the data I received from them in the last five years, the BHRT has not entered the amount of RTTV tax in total amount of 42,500,000 marks. So, I've... we've made a few points of contact with entity governments where correction of the Executive Procedure Act would be carried out in order to treat the request for a tv tax with the court as a valid document. 85 A correction of the law has recently been carried out in RTRS, but unfortunately we have no indication that something similar will be done in the Federation of BiH. Therefore, the aid of state institutions to public broadcasters in the more active collection of revenues from the RTV tax and aid from state institutions, at least in terms of the international functions of BHRT, would in that segment significantly improve both the financial position and the quality of BHRT itself. I thank you.
ParlaMint-BA_2010-04-21-0.u34553	I would like to thank the esteemed chairman of the Management Board of RTV BiH, Mrs. Marija Putica. We don't have any more logs. I'm closing the debate. We're going to the 13th agenda, Ad. 13. Report on the BiH Ombudsman's work for the period 01.01.2009 until 31.12.2009 This Regulation shall enter into force on the twentieth day The Law on the BiH Ombudsman, the BiH Ombudsman, provided us with a report on the work on adoption. The respective Constitutional Legal Commission delivered its opinion on 20.04.2010 and proposes to the House to adopt the Report. I'm opening a debate on the report. Dear Representative Šefik Džaferović.
ParlaMint-BA_2010-04-21-0.u34555	Mr. Chairman, colleagues and colleagues. So, on behalf of the Constitutional Commission, let me just say that we have considered this, that we have supported this report and we propose to the BiH Parliament that, the PSBiH House of Representatives, adopt this report. And we will develop a special co-operation with the BiH Law Department, especially after these latest amendments to the laws that we have made here in Parliament in co-operation with them, and perhaps about this way of reporting. I suggest that we accept this because, just to say that there is no confusion, when we carefully read this, let's say, this report, so when it comes to litigation cases, it's said that 1,303 objects were transferred from earlier years, that 473 items were received in 2009, that there were 1,776 cases in total, that 1,233 items were left unresolved. So, when you look at this, the percentage of 69% is a large percentage of unsolved cases, but that's why I said we're going to talk a little bit with both the D.A. and the BiH D.A.'s about how we report. So these are cases that have not been resolved by the courts, not by cases that have been resolved or not solved by the BiH Ombudsman. The D.A.'s office, I guess, did their part of the job, but in the courts, this is what this is about, and it's not settled. Looking back, perhaps actions taken by BiH's Attorney General should be described differently in this matter. There are some other things 86 I could talk about, but here, for this time I suggest we support this report and move on. That's it, thank you.
ParlaMint-BA_2010-04-21-0.u34556	Thank you. The following was reported by a respected representative of Remzija Kadrić.
ParlaMint-BA_2010-04-21-0.u34557	I thank you, Chairman. So, also with the view that this report should be accepted, of course, here it would be good, when it comes to these activities of the BiH Law Department in the matter of booking, a proposal for the recording of state property for the benefit of the BiH State in which BiH's Attorney General has his legal and his jurisdiction, here on the 14th page mentions such activities which..., until now, BiH's Attorney Generalship has led these activities, therefore, in some future report should have such information when it comes to, therefore, recording state property for the benefit of the BiH State before the courts. And based on the Constitution and under the Agreement on the Sucession of the former SFRY. So, this data is missing, and we know that some of the activities in that plan are being conducted, and it would be good, it's a very important thing, if there were such data in a future report. But no matter what, this report is one whole, and I need it, with this extra maybe data, to accept it as such.
ParlaMint-BA_2010-04-21-0.u34558	I thank the esteemed representative, Kadrić. Dear Representative Velimir Jukić.
ParlaMint-BA_2010-04-21-0.u34559	Well, I'm going to take a very short, actually one question, to take advantage of the lawyer's presence, or the lawyer's presence here, to tell us. It is known that many BiH citizens have sued the BiH state of Strasbourg for their old foreign currency savings. Well, here, is there any information about this, what is the latest information, and what is the assessment that part of these verdicts appear to be judged against the state of BiH, and for the benefit of the citizens who sued the BiH state on the basis of their rights, based on old foreign savings?
ParlaMint-BA_2010-04-21-0.u34560	Okay, no more reports, I'll conclude a debate on this agenda point, take the opportunity to welcome here BiH's Attorney-General, Mrs. Željka Klobučar. And the question asked her, here, I understood with her, is not in the BiH Attorney's Office's jurisdiction, but is in the power of BiH's agent to represent the council in Strasbourg. And we can ask them for that information. Moving to the next item of the agenda, 87 Ad. 14. Report on the work of the Postage Agency for BiH and the 2009 Financial Report 19.03. The Agency for Postal Transport shall, in accordance with Article 10(9). The Law on Postages of BiH, submitted a report on work and a Financial Report for adoption. The Committee for Transport and Communications delivered its opinion on 30.03. I'm opening a debate. There are no reports. I'm closing the debate. We're going to the 15th item of the agenda, Ad. 15. Report on the work of Permanent Committees of the House of Representatives for 2009
ParlaMint-BA_2010-04-21-0.u34575	Comrades and fellow MPs, may I have your attention, we're going to vote. First item of the agenda – adoption of the minutes from the 75th session. The vote on the 75th session minutes, which I must point out that we have checked the minutes from the previous sessions, here are the 74th session, and we have not been in the habit of stating who the question was referred to. If this should now be the way the records will be made in the future, there is no problem, but in previous records we have done so – only the question is listed. There's a stenogram, there's everything else where you can check, after all, sometimes at the end of the year we make and which questions are asked and to whom they're referred. But here, if you insist, we can continue in the record, or we can start in the record to write that too. Please prepare to vote. You can vote now. With that supplement to be put into the record in the future. For the 31st, against the 1st, there were no abstentions. I'm guessing we've adopted a 75th-session record. Moving to point 3. – The request of MP Niko Lozančić to consider the Proposal for a Law amending and supplementing the Law on Service in the Armed Forces of BiH by emergency procedure, in accordance with Article 127. Rules of Procedure. We vote first on the conclusion of MP Adem Huskić, which reads, does it need to be read? - Proposal for a law amending and supplementing the Law on Service in the Armed Forces of BiH, MP Niko Lozančić, is referred to the BiH Council of Ministers and the BiH Presidency for a statement on the proposed proposal.
ParlaMint-BA_2010-04-21-0.u34576	Business intervention.
ParlaMint-BA_2010-04-21-0.u34577	Business intervention. Here you go.
ParlaMint-BA_2010-04-21-0.u34578	We can make it very clear, so we have to make a statement about the request, I have a request, it's a business thing and it's impossible to postpone a statement at the request of any kind. If we accept the request, we declare ourselves to the Law, it is only possible by the Rules of Procedure, if we do not accept it, then there can be all sorts of conclusions. In accordance with Article 127 of Regulation (EU) No 1306/2013, the Commission is to adopt Rules of Procedure, we plead first on a request for an emergency procedure and there are no other things. The second is, if we accept a statement about the law, if we don't accept it, what I know is what we're going to accept, but it means, first we're pleading for an emergency procedure, and then we're going to see how we move forward. 93 [[Common discussion]]
ParlaMint-BA_2010-04-21-0.u34579	Wait a minute, please. (Here we were right to do this in several ways), you know that we voted on the conclusion that we do not declare the law, etc., etc., but, here, since most of us are asking to vote on the request for a quick procedure, to vote on it. If he doesn't adopt, then we'll be able to put this conclusion to the vote. So now we're pleading for an emergency procedure under the 127th procedure. Please prepare to vote. You can vote now. For 12, v. 22, abstention 1. I'm guessing we haven't adopted procedure by 127. We are now voting on the adoption of procedure by 126. Please prepare to vote. You can vote now. For 30, there wasn't, abstention 1. I find that we have adopted that this law is treated in accordance with Article 126. Rules of Procedure. We are now voting on the conclusion of MP Adem Huskić. Please prepare to vote. You can vote now. _________(?) [[no microphone turned on]] Well, well, there's a point in heading, we don't have to get any answers from them. [[Common discussion]]
ParlaMint-BA_2010-04-21-0.u34582	No microphone turned on
ParlaMint-BA_2010-04-21-0.u34583	So, we vote yes, do you have before you a proposal to conclude the honourable MP Zlatko Lagumdžija? ___________(?) [[no microphone turned on]] He said it's now a vote. I asked. Please prepare to vote. You can vote now. For 25, v. 1, abstention 8. Home will be informed of the alignment. We move to a vote on the conclusions of the SDA Club MPs. Please prepare to vote. You can vote now. For 16, v. 6, abstention 11. Insufficient entity support. I find that the House will be informed of the harmonisation of the Kolegijum and of these conclusions. Moving to point 4. – The request of the Council of Ministers of BiH to consider the Proposal for a Law on the adoption of the Law on Amendments and Supplements to the Law on the Court of Justice of BiH under an urgent procedure, in accordance with Article 127. Rules of Procedure. We vote on the request of the BiH Council of Ministers for Emergency Procedure. Please prepare to vote. You can vote now. For 23.9 against, abstention 2. Please, there will be a second round of voting. Insufficient entity support. The college didn't agree. We're moving on to the second round of voting. Please prepare to vote. You can vote now. For 25, against 10, there were no abstentions. I'm guessing we haven't adopted this request. 95 We move to point 5. – The request of the Council of Ministers of BiH to consider the Proposal for a Law on the adoption of the Law on Amendments and Supplements to the Law on the Prosecutor's Office of BiH by an urgent procedure, in accordance with Article 127. Rules of Procedure. We're voting on a request for an emergency procedure. Please prepare to vote. You can vote now. For 25, against 10, there were no abstentions. There's no consent in the College. We're moving on to the second round of voting. Please prepare to vote. You can vote now. For 25, against 10, there were no abstentions. I find this request not accepted. Moving to point 6. – Proposal for a holiday law in BiH – Proposer: MP Denis Bećirović. We're voting on amendments that are defended in the plenary phase. We are voting on amendments to the SNSD Club MPs. amandman I.. [[Common discussion]]
ParlaMint-BA_2010-04-21-0.u34591	Last time we asked Dom if we were going to vote individually. 100 We voted individually.
ParlaMint-BA_2010-04-21-0.u34593	Last time, we asked Dom if we were going to vote individually. The House has voted for a single vote. Please prepare to vote. So we're voting on the appointment of Mile Lasić. ___________(?) [[no microphone turned on]] Last time we appointed the Higher Education Agency, we went individually. _________(?) [[no microphone turned on]]
