ParlaMint-BA_2010-04-19-0.u7493	Ladies and gentlemen, honored colleagues and fellow delegates, present representatives of the Council of Ministers and the international community, respected media representatives, I warmly welcome you and open the extension of the 44th session of the House of the Peoples of the Parliamentary Assembly of BiH. Before I go any further, I want to apologize for the delay and thank you for your understanding. There are 15 delegates present at the session, five from the Bosniak, five from the Croatian and five from the Serb people. To continue the 44th session, we have to consider the following points of the established agenda from points 15 to 30. I think you have it in front of you that I'm not reading all these agenda points, because it's already entered the stenogram before when we opened the session. We're going to the 15th point of the agenda. IVO
ParlaMint-BA_2010-04-19-0.u7494	No microphone turned on
ParlaMint-BA_2010-04-19-0.u7495	Here you go. Ivo Miro
ParlaMint-BA_2010-04-19-0.u7496	: Dear President and co-chairmen, dear and respected colleagues and all present today's session of our home, we are witnessing a terrible tragedy that has hit friendly, Slavic and European Poland. Yesterday, the remains of a friend from Poland - the president of the state and the closest associates were buried. Given the great proportions of this tragic act, I would ask for a minute of silence to join the parliaments of the countries in Europe who did so during their meetings.
ParlaMint-BA_2010-04-19-0.u7497	I call upon the delegates to honor President Leh kačinski and all the victims. May eternal glory be to the President of the Republic of Poland, Kačinski, and to the delegation who died in a plane crash. I thank Mr. Jović. Moving to the 15th point of the agenda: Ad. 15. Proposal for a Law on the Promotion of Small and Medium Enterprises and Entrepreneurship in Bosnia and Herzegovina (first reading) – Proposer: Council of Ministers of BiH
ParlaMint-BA_2010-04-19-0.u7500	Thank you, Mr. Chairman. I welcome all those present at today's session, I welcome the gentleman from the Council of Ministers, the guests and the gentleman delegates to the House of Peoples. As you said in the opening section, the Commission for Economic Reform and Development unanimously supported the principles of the proposed "Law on the Promotion of Small and Medium Enterprises and Entrepreneurship in BiH". Bosnia and Herzegovina at the state level has no law that regulates this area. In the world, over 90% of small and medium-sized enterprises are in the EU. As is known, the Council of Ministers has already adopted the Small and Medium Enterprises Development Strategy, and Article 93. The Stabilisation and Association Agreement envisions strengthening and developing small and medium-sized enterprises in BiH, in line with EU rules. This proposed law has, as you can see, 19 members. It is in line with the original EU law. Article 17 provides for... specific activities of the Ministry of Foreign Trade as well as the establishment of a forum as an advisory body which confirms certain activities carried out in small and medium-sized enterprises. In the first reading, as you said a moment ago, the House adopted... the principles of the proposed law, with the conclusion that a public debate was held and that a further procedure for the adoption of this law was continued after the public debate. 3 I propose that this House be adopted in the first reading of the Proposal for a Law on the Promotion of Small and Medium Enterprises and Entrepreneurship in BiH, and that we put in charge of the Commission for Economic Reform and Development, in particular the conclusion, that the same conclusion of the House of Representatives should be reached and that the public debate is held by the end of April. Thank you.
ParlaMint-BA_2010-04-19-0.u7501	Thank you very much. I'm opening a debate. Is anyone answering their word? Mrs. Majkić.
ParlaMint-BA_2010-04-19-0.u7502	Dear colleagues, distinguished present, members of the Council of Ministers, here, we have one significant law today in the first reading and its importance does not allow us to... just quietly vote, meaning that our vote also means the approval of its arrival in parliamentary procedure. We see that it is a small law with only 19 members that regulates the area of promotion of entrepreneurship and small and medium-sized enterprises in BiH. There are several reasons for certain reasons why the Ministry of Foreign Trade and Economic Relations delivered such a proposal in the procedure and the first and possibly most significant is that in April 2009, the Council of Ministers adopted this Small and Medium Enterprises Development Strategy for 2009 and 2011. What's it based on? First, this strategy is based on entity strategies and refers to a three-year period. What was the goal of this strategy? So, firstly, the Ministry of Foreign Trade and Economic Relations is tasked with coordinating the activities of the implementation of the said strategy, and its objective, therefore, is to achieve such a strategy – to improve the environment for the business of small and medium-sized enterprises, and we all know well that if there is any policy task, then... it is an environment to allow the largest number of small and medium-sized enterprises to be established in BiH. The second objective of this strategy is to improve their competitiveness on the domestic and foreign markets. We also know by many estimates that we are also disabled and that much work still needs to be done to achieve competitiveness. And the third goal is to reduce the grey economy and poverty in BiH. Therefore, on the basis of these all established objectives, the annual programme for the development and promotion of small and medium-sized enterprises and entrepreneurship in BiH is under way. What exactly are the basics of having a law like this? First, it is a short-term priority from the European Partnership, the commitment of the Stabilisation and Association Agreement and the European Small Business Charter. What are his basic characteristics? First, several of the most important members of this law. Firstly, in Article 2 which provides for the definition of small and medium-sized enterprises and we see that here for the first time it is clearly defined that these include business entities that employ less than 250 persons per year and have an annual income of less than 95 million or a balance sheet of less than 86 million and are independent in business. So these particulars are clear to me but I don't understand, and I expect the minister to say something about it, these amounts of 95 million, 86 million, etc., through the law I find insufficiently adapted to our reality. The next member is a member of the 3rd to talk about the division of small and medium-sized enterprises, which says they are classified in micro, small and medium-sized enterprises according to size. Micro-enterprises are enterprises that employ nine and fewer persons with income achieved or a total annual balance sheet of less than 4 million. I don't think in BiH I really know if there are companies that have less than nine people, and they do have such a business result. Small enterprises employing between 10 and 49 persons with a total annual income or balance sheet of less than 20 million and medium-sized enterprises employing between 50 and 249 persons with an annual income of less than 95 million, i.e. an annual balance sheet of less than 86 million. These are quite high amounts, and I'm afraid it may be the greatest drawbacks, in my opinion, expecting the minister to find answers why these figures were put into law. There's another important thing that's being regulated by this law, it's keeping statistics that says small and medium-sized enterprises count, but the key position is, or the member is the one that talks about incentive measures. These are the measures to be taken to achieve the objectives of development and promotion of small and medium-sized enterprises and entrepreneurship. So, what does this article 10 say? It speaks of what needs to be done to improve the situation and to allow for more small and medium-sized enterprises, credit under favourable conditions. We know how many representatives told the firm about the need to be credited under favourable conditions and subsidized interest. Giving guarantees for domestic and foreign loans, infrastructure separations, where the state has the opportunity to do something. Elimination of administrative barriers! We know how many administrative obstacles there are to form a company. Aid for increasing employment and a long series, here, mentioned 18 different incentive measures to be applied... when this law is implemented. What should be pointed out is that it is safe to draw attention to the fact that a large number of European funds are intended primarily to encourage science and economy but also to encourage its business. It is known that smaller businesses are economically profitable, which means that more small businesses are able to obtain significant funds from IPA funds. The EU has done well and recognised that the key to the solution is the employment and repair of the economic situation in the country that small and medium-sized enterprises are and it has done a document called the Small Business Charter, which is in different degrees in many European countries. So here is BiH through this law opportunity to do so. So, I believe that, for all of these reasons that I have talked about, it is necessary to support the principles of this law, because this law is in line with legislation and it creates a framework, i.e. coordination of the development and promotion of small and medium-sized enterprises from all levels of government, making access to EU funds, banks, donors and other international institutions possible single classification of small and medium-sized enterprises and meeting the conditions of the European Partnership. So, according to this, I suggest we uphold the principles of this law. 5 At the same time, I think it is necessary, therefore, that given that the House of Representatives has made a decision to organise a public debate, where there is certainly something to be heard, I suggest that the first conclusion is that the House of Nations also supports the organisation of a public debate on this subject. The second, given that a public debate will be held and the House of Representatives will be held afterwards, I suggest that the second conclusion be that the amendment phase lasts 48 hours before the next session of this commission. Thank you.
ParlaMint-BA_2010-04-19-0.u7503	Thank you very much. Anyone else answer for a word? Is there a need for a promoter? Here you go. Minister Zirojević. Here you go.
ParlaMint-BA_2010-04-19-0.u7504	The Honorable Chairman, the Honorable Presidency, distinguished delegates, fellow ministers, ladies and gentlemen, as Mrs. Majkić said, has long been waiting for this strategy and for the adoption of this law. If I tell you that the attempt to adopt a strategy for the period 2005-2007 has ended in failure, then you realize how much effort, contacts, if you will and persuasion it takes, in order to have some political agreement on the adoption of this strategy for the period 2009-2011 and here is this draft law. The law itself, as Mrs Majkić said, was defined by both the SAA and the European Partnership, the short-term priorities and many other obligations of BiH. The importance of the law does not need to be particularly explained if the fact is taken into account that 95% of BiH's businesses are now classified in the category of small and medium-sized, micro-small and medium-sized enterprises. Mrs. Majkić asked why the very values based on which the business entities are being categorized. It is precisely because it is some European standards, European values, and it is something that the European Commission has insisted on, so here, if you will, and this one illogicality: in Article 7, it says, position 1 under 'a', small and medium-sized enterprises with 0-1 employees, which is something that the European Commission has really insisted on. I guess because of the information system, because of the statistics, that's why everything that needs to be a European standard. What does this law mean? This law is significant because it represents a solution to the establishment of administrative and institutional capacity in charge of the management of this issue, to improve the development of small and medium-sized enterprises in the light of the sector at the Ministry of Foreign Trade and Economic Relations, which, among other things, will be responsible for the implementation of operational plans on the basis of which funds will be withdrawn from this famous IPA component... regional development at the moment when the funds and this component, the IPA component, will be available to us. So, by gaining candidate status. I wouldn't go any further, I think Mrs. Majkić already said everything that was meant to be said about this law. I simply invite you to support his adoption. Let it go to a public debate, but here I repeat, it took a lot of effort to put this law in place in Parliament. Thank you. 6
ParlaMint-BA_2010-04-19-0.u7505	Thank you very much. Anyone else answer for a word? If he doesn't answer his word, we can approach the vote. First we vote on the bill. Who Is For? As far as I see it unanimously, no one “against, ” no one“ abstention. ” I find that the proposal for a law on the promotion of small and medium-sized enterprises and entrepreneurship in BiH has been adopted. We are now going to vote on the conclusion Mr. Koprivica made here: to conduct a public debate. I think we can make this second conclusion, Mrs. Majkić. We also have this proposal to conclude that the amendment phase lasts 48 hours before the House session. I think we can adopt that, too. Who is the “for ” and the one and the other conclusion? We can vote together. Is there anyone “against ”? There isn't. "Contained"? I realize we've adopted these two conclusions. Moving to point 16. Ad. 16. Proposal for a law on the application of the results of deoxyribonucleic acid analysis in court proceedings (first reading) – Proposer: Council of Ministers of BiH First there is a debate on the necessity and principles on which the bill is based. You've been given the Constitutional Commission's opinion. The Commission has accepted the principles of the bill. The House of Representatives adopted the bill in the first reading. I give my word to the chairman of the Commission, Mr Ivo Miri Jović. Here you go. Ivo Miro
ParlaMint-BA_2010-04-19-0.u7507	Thank you very much. We have all received opinions from our committee, established that we unanimously supported that there is a constitutional basis, that it is in line with the Constitution and the legal system and that we have supported the principles of the proposed law. I am obliged to inform that, in the meantime, we have organised a public debate, so that we did not have this law in our first reading, so we could not make a decision on 7 public debates, but I would like to inform my colleagues that several of us from the House of People, from the Constitutional Commission, were in this public debate. It has been very useful and I think that in this time of the amendment, we will have opportunities and needs to put in amendments to strengthen the quality of this text.
ParlaMint-BA_2010-04-19-0.u7508	Thank you very much. I give my word to Srđan Arnaut. Here you go.
ParlaMint-BA_2010-04-19-0.u7509	Thank you, Chairman. Dear delegates, operating DNA databases of deoxyribonucleic acid have been established in 26 countries of Europe. Unfortunately, there is no other term that could be used, but it is in greater use of this DNA term so that I will continue to speak the abbreviations. Accordingly, it is necessary for our country, as a member of the Council of Europe and on the road to EU accession, to create legal conditions for the keeping of DNA registers. One reason for the law is also the need for a single fight against terrorism and organised crime, including BiH. During the draft law, Recommendation 92.1 of the Council of Europe on the protection of genetic privacy was respected. Also, the provisions of the law are in line with international documents ratified by our country, such as the European Convention on the Protection of Human Rights and Fundamental Freedoms. The introduction into the case-law of biological articulation through the method of DNA analysis has practically opened up unlimited possibilities for the detection of unknown perpetrators of criminal offences, while at the same time the possibility of eliminating individual suspects as perpetrators of criminal offences. This method is also used to identify the identity of missing persons, identify the dead in general. The DNA analysis is actually already in place in BiH, but the results obtained by this type of art are stored in the internal databases of individual laboratories, although they have served as the basis for lighting up serious crimes in which the perpetrator was unknown. This law provides that the Agency for Forensic Studies and Arts at the Ministry of Security shall establish and maintain a DNA database, analyse and compare DNA profiles, and, according to the order of the Court and the Prosecutor's Office, provide the requested information for the purposes of criminal and judicial proceedings. The law also regulates the availability of DNA profiles to laboratories, availability in criminal proceedings, availability of the court in the out-of-par procedure of declaring a person dead, and availability to the court and the prosecution for the identification of corpses. Finally, it should be noted that, within the framework of international legal assistance, the Agency has the authority to compare the DNA received with the profiles found in the database. Mr. Jović already mentioned that the House of Representatives organised a public debate involving and, as guests, teachers from neighbouring countries. And I must say that neighbouring countries do not have this law so that BiH has stepped forward from the region, trying to regulate this in at least one segment relating to judicial proceedings and proceedings initiated before prosecutors. Thank you very much. 8
ParlaMint-BA_2010-04-19-0.u7510	Thank you very much. I'm opening a debate. Mrs. Majkić.
ParlaMint-BA_2010-04-19-0.u7511	I have a question for the promoter. So I saw that the public debate was of great quality and that they were very quantifiable participants in the public debate. I see here is the visit of Damir Marjanović, one of the leading young experts in BiH in forensic genetics; Dragan Primorac, pioneer of forensic DNA analysis in the region; Oliver Stojković, leading expert in forensic genetics in Serbia; Željko Karan, one of the most famous, if not the most famous court medic in BiH. The unauthorized transcript of the public hearing is on 50 pages. My question to the promoter is: If you had organised a public debate yourself, if it hadn't been for the House of Representatives, do you think that the quality of this law would have been better and if you thought... that this public debate had opened the space for a large number of amendments? Thank you.
ParlaMint-BA_2010-04-19-0.u7512	Thank you very much. Who's next to the word? If no one answers the word, I would ask the motionary to answer Mrs. Majkić's question.
ParlaMint-BA_2010-04-19-0.u7513	The quality of the proposed law could be compared to the laws in the region, and I said there are no such laws. So, really respectable experts from the region who were invited to a public debate have contributed, but we cannot compare what would have happened, because approaches from even regulating the process of analysis of deoxyribonucleic acid for the whole country, then it would certainly be one much wider law. We tried, so to say, to take the first step to regulate the use of DNA analysis and procedures in front of the prosecution, so to introduce DNA registers and to say that DNA is taken in criminal proceedings, i.e. investigation procedures, and what happens to samples when they are entered into the register, how they are destroyed, etc. So that's one segment. You could see from the unauthorized text of the public debate that experts were much broader views, and from that aspect you were right to regulate my complete analysis of deoxyribonucleic acid, not in this segment. So we weren't ready at this point to go on such a broad bite, a team before that question was, I say, regulated in the region. We have also consulted the regulations of other countries but we believe that this one step is, in fact, what we have been facing for several years now, the neighbouring country of Croatia and Serbia. But they have a law in working versions for several years, they don't, because I'm saying, you've seen the dilemmas of experts, university professors, and so I think it's a good idea to make this one step, to set up bases, that they don't exist by some 9 laboratories now, that they're not systematized, and that, in the context of international legal aid, we actually have an address that the other country can address. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-BA_2010-04-19-0.u7514	Thank you very much. If no one ever answers their word again, we'll approach the vote. Who's for the bill in the first reading? I see we unanimously passed the bill in the first reading. Moving to the 17th point of the agenda: Ad. 17. Proposal for a Law on Amendments and Supplements to the Law on Labour in the Institutions of Bosnia and Herzegovina (first reading) – Proposer: Council of Ministers of BiH First there is a debate on the necessity and principles on which the bill is based. You've been given the Constitutional Commission's opinion. The Commission has accepted the principles of the bill. The House of Representatives passed the bill in the first reading. I give my word to the chairman of the Commission, Ivo Miri Jović. Here you go. Ivo Miro
ParlaMint-BA_2010-04-19-0.u7516	Thank you very much. I also want to say, and very briefly, that our commission has considered it a long time ago, i.e. March 5th, text offered. These are the consentes of the BiH Labour Act, which unanimously supported that it has constitutional basis and that the proposed text of the law is in line with... The BiH Constitution and legal system. As it comes to first reading, I wouldn't go into any details. I do, and I would suggest, as we were unanimous, that we be unanimous here in the House today.
ParlaMint-BA_2010-04-19-0.u7517	Thank you very much. If there is a need, I give my word to the Proposer.
ParlaMint-BA_2010-04-19-0.u7518	Thanks again. The BiH institutions' labour law was passed in 2004. It was once changed in 2005. These amendments and additions to this law actually harmonize some of the solutions in the Labour Act with the amended laws, which primarily refers to the Law on 10 state services in BiH institutions and the Law on Salaries and Refunds in BiH institutions. To point out that there are no rules at EU level defining the area subject to this law and with which BiH legislation should be harmonised, except for the area of banning discrimination on persons seeking employment and who are employed. Amendments and additions to this law have defined the issues relating to the employment contract, the precise provisions relating to powers when deciding to accept employment, the precise provisions on the duration of full-time work and the conclusion of the labour contract. Amendments to the law are complemented by provisions relating to... the conclusion of collective insurance, provisions relating to the remaining work capacity and provisions relating to decision-making on the rights and obligations of workers. So far, the State Board of Appeals has decided on complaints from civil servants, and this law actually gives the opportunity to allow this Committee to be held... on appeal when it comes to the working dispute of employees. The law was in its first reading, according to the chairman of the Constitutional Legal Commission, adopted at the House of Representatives. A very interesting public debate has been organised in the House of Peoples, as well as the Board of Appeals, and MPs in Parliament, and trade unions, and I think there have been a lot of amendments (I don't think, but I know that there have been a lot of amendments, most of which have been repeated to some provisions of the law so that there are more amendments than the various MPs to the same provisions of the law). What we did not want to challenge by this law is the opening of a debate on the right to compensation for maternity leave, social welfare issues, the basics of pension and social security, etc., because these rules are not at the level of the state, but in the public debate there has been a lot of talk on this subject. Mr. Koprivica suggested that the right to maternity compensation should not be discussed until a decision by the Constitutional Court, so that a part of the debate was conducted in that direction – ensuring equality based on work in BiH institutions. I mean, we've given the Ministry's vision of all amendments to the House of Representatives and today it's their Constitutional Commission so we'll know what's been accepted from the amendments and what's not, after their session. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-BA_2010-04-19-0.u7519	Thank you very much. Mr. Koprivica answered his word.
ParlaMint-BA_2010-04-19-0.u7520	Thank you, Mr. Chairman. As the Justice Ministry said, this Proposal for a Law on Amendments and Supplements to the Labour Act in BiH institutions on 11. 3. was the subject of a public debate held here in this room. Despite the undisputed values and certain improvements compared to the current regulation contained in the BiH institutions' draft labour law, the public debate certainly showed a lot of the shortcomings contained in the proposal. 11 First of all, this was generally considered controversial by some five or six members – 1st, 13, 14, 16, 25, 31st and 45th. - and the question is, as has been concluded in one part of the public debate, how much can be affected in the amendment phase that these members, i.e. the proposed text of these members, are corrected in the amendment phase. It is clear that it is a special regulation, i.e. lex specialis when it comes to this area, the Law on State Service in BiH institutions and the Law on Bosnia and Herzegovina's Salaries. So there is a problem with the non-compliance of this proposal with these laws. By adopting the law in this text, I think we're going to be collapsing, exactly the one that the public debate has fully shown. As we've been informed, the House of Representatives adopted in the first reading. The amendment phase is under way. A number of issues arise here, not only this question on which the Justice Department gentleman pointed out about the compensation during maternity leave and the issue at the Constitutional Court for the assessment of the constitutionality of the Payments Act. A number of other issues arise here, starting with Articles 12, 13, 14, 16, 25, 31 and 45, and these procedures concerning the appeal deadlines, the jurisdiction to resolve complaints, are directly contrary to the provisions of these civil service laws in BiH institutions, so I don't know how they're going to get out of this situation. So, in principle, I support the adoption of this law, but I am really pessimistic as to how it will come out of this situation if what has been demonstrated by a public debate with a series of these objections is intended to be installed in the proposed text of the law and how we will come into a situation to comply with this law with the provisions of the Law on Salaries and the Law on State Service in BiH institutions, above all, when it comes to these proceedings by appeal. Of course, there are other issues that are controversial, concerning collective insurance where the obligation for institutions to provide collective insurance for all employees is foreseen, it is a matter of significant means to engage on this basis. Also, this issue of maternity leave where, in my opinion, the Constitutional Court of BiH's decision on the Law of Salaries is awaited, and it would be instructive, in my opinion, to return to this ministry and that these remarks that were in the public debate be incorporated, or considered, and to get the Constitutional Court's position in the meantime, so that only then can we approach the adoption of one of these laws. In principle, so everything that's been said in the public debate of this occasion I support again. Thank you.
ParlaMint-BA_2010-04-19-0.u7521	Thank you very much. Is anyone else answering for word? If he's not answering, then we can approach the vote.
ParlaMint-BA_2010-04-19-0.u7522	12 [[no microphone turned on]]
ParlaMint-BA_2010-04-19-0.u7523	I didn't see, I'm sorry. Mrs. Majkić, here.
ParlaMint-BA_2010-04-19-0.u7524	I'm glad that Mr. Koprivica spoke a few words, because I was afraid that Mr. Jović commented that everything was fine, and we have rarely a bad law ahead of us. And now I'm going to say the arguments as to why he's bad. First, the public debate showed. Secondly, the House of Representatives, its Constitutional Commission, which decided to organise a public debate together with the Constitutional Commission of the People's House, did everything by procedure. So she invited all the measure participants who can and have something to say on this subject. So, the Department of Justice as a promoter, and then the Agency for State Service, the Employment Agency, the Gender Equality Agency, so I think about eight, nine institutions are invited. So, all those who were interested in saying their position on the subject. It should be noted, before I go any further, that this is a law that applies only at the state level, entities have their own laws. A large number of remarks have been heard in the public debate, some of which tear down the very essence and principles of this law, but the most frightening thing we've heard is the position of this ministry where one man has made the law, put it on the Ministry's website and waited for an answer as to whether or not someone will comment and since no one has made a comment this law has been released into the procedure. And then we find ourselves in the situation where we are now, that the preambitious individuals in the ministries, who don't think that for... this area should be created by an inter-resor working group that will look at the problem from all aspects, bring us into a position to watch what we do with the law and become aware of all the problems only when the law has already come into parliamentary procedure. So, the Ministry finds... that it has not received any remarks, because imagine, please, it is such an interesting website of the Justice Ministry that it should be watched every day. In doing so, it did not bother to send an e-mail to anyone who was potentially interested in this and to say, "Please look at this website." I quote one of the participants in the debate who said very nicely: 'Consultations on the law are not putting the bill on the website, consultation means sitting down and agreeing.' Well, I think the Ministry should keep that in mind, this and all the other ministries when they deliver bill proposals in the process. So it's obvious that the bill was not observed, there were no objections, it was released in the procedure, he's in front of us now and we're watching what we're going to do with him. Many participants feel that it is so bad that it is not possible to fix it. But I want to draw attention to what we just said, we had a public debate and we heard a lot of opinions. So, when Parliament, when it does some things, then I guess it consults everyone who can help win the quality of the law. We now see more and more that the ministries send us proposals without any consultation, so do whatever you want with them. You're responsible if you don't bring it in, and you're even more responsible if you don't accept it, even if it's no good. This is the same case that we had recently because of which Parliament received, indeed, the unjustly all the salva was headed towards us when the Office of Audit put it in the administrative organisation. And that same ministry, which has not consulted anyone, is doing the same thing to only one man, so we find ourselves in such a situation that we have to defend ourselves for something we weren't responsible for. That was the same thing with the Copyright Act. The problem of the law opened 13 only after a public debate. A bunch of amendments are heading towards the Parliamentary Assembly and I don't even know how we're going to get out of it. I was called by some of the representatives of these institutions... who were called by the Constitutional Legal Commission of the House of Representatives to a public debate and said they had a large number of objections and that they do not know whether many things can be corrected by amendments because they are in the essence. I have a large number of objections, I don't want to talk about all these remarks, but I'd like to make a deal with you. We have two options to adopt such a law as it is: to adopt it in the first reading and to come into a position that we have a mass of amendments with which we will not be able to fix the essence, or not to adopt it and force the Ministry to organise an interresor working group like everyone does for every rejected law and to force them to do the laws the way they should. That all those who have something to say on the subject of this law are organized into an inter-resor working group. So, I would like more delegates to have made an insight into this public debate to see what complex problems the representatives who participated in the public debate are. Thank you.
ParlaMint-BA_2010-04-19-0.u7525	Thank you very much. Mr. Božo Rajić answered the question. Here you go.
ParlaMint-BA_2010-04-19-0.u7526	Thank you, Mr. Chairman. I had no intention of reporting on this agenda point as well as on the previous one, but for principle reasons, actually, for my assessment that it was a violation of the Rules of Procedure, so I ask you, the chairman, why do you allow without having to discuss the principles of a law to turn into a fundamental debate? You allowed it both in this and the previous wheel for no real reason. I suppose you wanted to be maximum tolerance, but I'd ask you not to allow that kind of debate while you're at the session in the future. Secondly, from these debates these two laws, especially now that we're talking about this point, that we're in a rather uneven position here. Representatives from one group know exactly what the minister is doing, what his individuals are, who was involved in something, who wasn't involved in something. I unfortunately have to admit, whether because I am intellectually inferior or in some other way brought into that position, I have no correspondence with that kind of communication, or data to be able to say what I heard from Mrs. Majkić's debate. And it seems to me completely declassified to talk about whether one person, even, was working on the draft law, and if that's true, because the proposer is the official ministry, or the Council of Ministers. On the other hand, it is because we have witnessed that we have had several very important laws in this procedure that have been done by such groups, so they are also welcomed to kick, rejected without a single word of argumentation and explanations why they are not accepted. In fact, they were rejected for some political, 14 deep reasons, not because the law was not agreed in accordance with some principles, with some rules. And finally to look back on something that Mrs. Majkić is partly right when she says the responsibility of the legislator was a matter of status, i.e. the translation of the status change of the State Audit Office. I accept that we could object to this ministry for offering us such a law, but since 57 MPs in both homes, no one has noticed. So at least let's be honest and let's say we missed seeing it. Thank you.
ParlaMint-BA_2010-04-19-0.u7527	Thank you very much. It's a replica, isn't it? Mrs. Majkić.
ParlaMint-BA_2010-04-19-0.u7528	So, as I understand it, the laws are being considered in two readings, the first reading is the principles of the law, I was just talking about it. The new elements I mentioned were a violation of the principles of the law. How much have we been informed? As much as we want to be informed. Someone can go to a public hearing, someone can take a transcript of a public hearing and read it, but the easiest thing I know would be the easiest thing to do to raise a hand and tell us about it and finish the session in 10 minutes. I don't think it's our job, on the contrary, to discuss every law. I may be too ambitious, but I think it's our job to sit here. Everything else is a story that ends as soon as possible.
ParlaMint-BA_2010-04-19-0.u7529	Mrs. Čolo. Here you go.
ParlaMint-BA_2010-04-19-0.u7530	/no microphone turned on/
ParlaMint-BA_2010-04-19-0.u7531	Replica, Božo Rajić.
ParlaMint-BA_2010-04-19-0.u7532	Listen, Mrs. Majkić, with maximum respect for your person and your role, it would still be correct of you not to teach us the work. You take your work results and your medals with you, and let us work on our conscience. It is not the point of participating in the debate in order to speak, but to contribute to the solution. Thank you.
ParlaMint-BA_2010-04-19-0.u7533	Alma Čolo, Branko Zrno. 15
ParlaMint-BA_2010-04-19-0.u7534	... I don't think the solution in Parliament is to make a law to do this by inter-resor working groups. We have the Council of Ministers as an executive authority that has competent people working on lawmaking there. I can't say that now some interresor working group is more competent than the state officials who are trained to prepare the laws. The labour law was passed in 2004, changed on two occasions in 2005, all the solutions that were offered, in my opinion, are better than the ones we now have. We can fix the amendments, Mrs. Majkić, if you think something is wrong with the amendments, we can fix a lot of members and I don't think the law should be withdrawn from the procedure, and I don't think in particular that we should wait for the Constitutional Court ruling when it comes to compensation during maternity leave, because you know that the BiH Constitutional Court is crowded with cases and generally the cases end in no less than two years, so in two years we won't, a year and a half, get a decision on this case. The court has made a decision on a temporary measure, but the metrics decision won't make it fast, so I think we should go today to the adoption of the law principle, we're going to amend what we don't think is right.
ParlaMint-BA_2010-04-19-0.u7535	Thank you very much. Mr. Branko Zrno, then Mladen Ivanić.
ParlaMint-BA_2010-04-19-0.u7536	Thank you very much. Well, mostly on this background, as has been said so far, we are still discussing the principles of this law today. And secondly, I would have warned us all if he wasn't here, this isn't where the procedure begins to discuss it today, this is the procedure that's already going on. Today, the parliamentary working body, meaning the Constitutional Commission, is showing about the amendments. So, this proposal to amend and supplement this law has entered another phase that we... can't follow and follow from the position we are in today, and we would only plead to its principles. I think that today, for us, really should be the measuring opinion of the relevant working bodies of our home, this law should be adopted in the first reading thanks to the public debate. And I also believe that in the amendment phase there can really be a lot of things that can be fixed regardless of what we are very often burdened by the number of amendments, sometimes... and their meaning, sometimes regrettable and pointless, but I think that today at this stage where we are, in the first reading, we don't have to stand in the way of this law, because we're not going to do anything. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-BA_2010-04-19-0.u7537	Thank you very much. Mr. Mladen Ivanić. Here you go. 16
ParlaMint-BA_2010-04-19-0.u7538	I'll support this law in the first reading. I would support Mrs. Majkić's criticism if he knew that the Serbian people's ministers were overvoted. But if they weren't outvoted, if they voted for this, then I think her criticism should have gone to the ministers who, if true, supported this, not us. They're in power, they're behind the law. Or, if they're overvoted, then I accept your views and I will support you, but in order to be clear, we need to know what it is, whether they voted or didn't vote for this law. If they are, then it is no longer the law of the Ministry of Security, but rather the proposal of the Council of Ministers' law and can not be criticised for the bad, if there are bad elements, according to one ministry, but according to all members of the Council of Ministers who voted for it. Now, in order to be able to conduct an adequate debate and quality, we should always have that kind of information.
ParlaMint-BA_2010-04-19-0.u7539	Thank you very much. Mr. Slobodan Šaraba. Here you go.
ParlaMint-BA_2010-04-19-0.u7540	Mr. Chairman, therefore, by observing how the ruling coalition is compatible with this law, I suggest we immediately start working on a new legal text regarding this legal project. Thank you.
ParlaMint-BA_2010-04-19-0.u7541	Thank you very much. I think we've exhausted the debate. We can approach the vote. I'm sorry. Mladen man, did you ask a question?
ParlaMint-BA_2010-04-19-0.u7542	/no microphone turned on/
ParlaMint-BA_2010-04-19-0.u7543	All right, then I'm asking the Proposer to respond.
ParlaMint-BA_2010-04-19-0.u7544	In relation to the more questions that have been asked, let me just say that we have respected that official procedure that was ahead of us and the point is that every home will organise a public debate and extend the circle of faces that participate in the debate on this law. So it's a system law, as already said, passed in 2004, and it's stronger than the partial laws. Regarding what is in conflict with the Law on State Service, just to say that the Law on State Service under this law can be corrected, so there can be an extension of the 17 Board of Appeal's responsibilities, however it does not, and we have responded to the Constitutional Commission to accept that kind of amendment. So, in principle, I'm saying that... in the amendment procedure, part of it we've accepted as far as the insurance of the State Service Act is concerned. As for what was said, we should sit down and negotiate, that's what the union representative said, and I agree that he sits with the union and negotiates what are union issues, not what is the question of adoption of the law. And as far as I know, I'm not attending the Council of Ministers' session, there was no voting over this law.
ParlaMint-BA_2010-04-19-0.u7545	Okay, thank you very much. Can we vote now? Who is “for ” the bill in the first reading? ‘For’ is 10. Right? Who Is “against ”? Niko. "Contained"? I find that the bill has been passed. Moving to the 23rd point of the agenda: Ad. 23. Proposal for a Law on Amendments and Supplements to the Act on the Protection of Secret Information (First Reading) – Proposer: Council of Ministers of BiH This is the first reading. First there is a debate on the necessity and principles on which the bill is based. You have received the Joint Commission's opinion on the work of the BiH Intelligence and Security Agency. The Joint Committee has accepted the principles of the bill. The House of Representatives adopted the bill in the first reading. I give my word to Božo Rajić, whom the Joint Commission has appointed rapporteur. Here you go, Mr. Rajić.
ParlaMint-BA_2010-04-19-0.u7547	Mr. Chairman, I have nothing to add to what you have in the materials on this committee's report.
ParlaMint-BA_2010-04-19-0.u7548	Okay, thank you very much. I give the word to the Proposer, the representative of the Proposer. Mr Mate Miletić, Assistant Minister? Here you go. 18
ParlaMint-BA_2010-04-19-0.u7549	Thank you, Mr. Chairman. Your Honor, I would like to start by saying that this law was first passed in 2005. It's been changed once, so in 2009. The current amendments proposed, i.e. bringing the text of this law into line with EU standards, are the minimum standards that we have been obliged to adopt in these amendments. As you all know, BiH concluded an agreement with the EU in 2006. It also pledged to take over the minimum standards applicable to the EU, which are related to the protection of classified information and exchange. These changes are very important for a number of reasons, firstly, we are now in the signing phase of the agreement on the existing agreement and secondly, if these amendments are passed by the European Commission, we will be able to make the exchange of classified information with the EU for the first time. This law has been on several working groups, meaning several working group sessions. Also, there was a workshop in Kupres where we had representatives of the Parliamentary Committee for Oversight over BiH's work, which was in November 2009. So the law is necessary to continue the work. It is not only amendments to this law but it is about amendments to the sublegal acts adopted in accordance with this law. I've had so much. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-BA_2010-04-19-0.u7550	Thank you very much. I'm opening a debate. Mrs. Majkić.
ParlaMint-BA_2010-04-19-0.u7551	First, I have an obligation to say that we will support this law in our first reading and we will support it in the second reading provided that two amendments that are related to the attempt to transfer competences from the RS MUP to the state level are passed. First of all, we're not convinced. It says that the law is in line with European legislation, and none of the norms of this European legislation are mentioned, not a single number, but is simply said - in line with the legislation. Secondly, since it applies to all levels of government, it would be logical to include representatives of the RS MUP in its design, meaning entity MUPs, which you did not consider necessary and did not include. So only state-level institutions did it, even though you had to do it, since it says it refers to all levels. The third thing is the introduction of a security officer who performs tasks in this RS ministry, in the MUP, and corresponds to the Minister of Security which is absolutely inadmissible, such a way. The second and third is the extension of the jurisdiction of the national security authority in Article 34, which takes over the work of each institution of all levels of government handling classified information, which means that the data of the economic type, therefore for all data, is taken over by the Ministry of Security, which is not acceptable to us. Therefore, Article 35 provides for the introduction of full control of the work of information systems in institutions at all levels of government handling classified information. So far, we've only played such a role under the law when it comes to classified information, now the Ministry of Security would take over. 19 So we will support this law in the first reading, but if two amendments do not pass, which practically erases the decision to make a proposal to transfer... the current entity jurisdiction to the state level – we will be against the law.
ParlaMint-BA_2010-04-19-0.u7552	Okay, thank you. Who's next to the word? If no one's answering, the Proposer's representative has asked for a word again. Here you go, Mr. Miletić.
ParlaMint-BA_2010-04-19-0.u7553	I'm just going to answer some questions that were asked by Mrs. Majkić. So, this task force included all institutions working on law enforcement, with OSCE representatives, with NATO representatives. Also, we've been on multiple deals at the RS MUP regarding these amendments to the law. It also wouldn't be good, I say again, if we'd run a security check these days, we'd got all the security questionnaires from the RS MUP. So there were no concrete proposals and objections to this law. It's about... This security officer institution, I can only say about it. For the first time, it is introduced, meaning, and it is a person, it is not only responsible for us, the Ministry of Security, it is also responsible for the minister of entity MUP, not only of the MUP, but of any institution that conducts the processing of this law. ... The information system was our conclusion, i.e. our proposal was on the Council of Ministers, it was unanimously accepted. So, everyone voted, no one had any objections and suggestions about what you're about... I mean, as far as these changes are concerned, you said this was all about fundamental changes. EU representatives were part of this commission, so I think that everything that was necessary and minimum standards we accepted.
ParlaMint-BA_2010-04-19-0.u7554	Thank you very much. If no one is answering for a word, I'm putting the bill in first reading for a vote. Who Is For? Is there anyone “against ”? "Contained"? There isn't. I find that we unanimously passed the bill in the first reading. Moving to the 24th point of the agenda: 20 Ad. 24. Proposal for a revised BiH strategy for the implementation of Annex VII. Dayton Peace Accords (the Human Rights and Refugees Act of BiH, issue: 01-37-310/10 of 15. 2. 2010) You've received materials delivered by the Ministry of Human Rights and Refugees. You have also received the opinion of the Joint Commission on Human Rights, the rights of the child, youth, immigration, refugees, asylum and ethics. The joint commission adopted the proposal for a revised BiH strategy for the implementation of Annex VII. The Dayton Peace Agreement and concluded that the proposal for a revised strategy follows the basic provisions on legislative activities, i.e. First and second reading. The House of Representatives adopted the proposal for a revised BiH strategy for the implementation of Annex VII. The Dayton Peace Agreement in first reading with conclusions. I give my word to the Vice-President of the Joint Committee on Human Rights, the rights of the child, youth, immigration, refugees, asylum and ethics, Mr. Zoran Koprivica. Here you go, Mr. Koprivic.
ParlaMint-BA_2010-04-19-0.u7556	Thank you, Mr. Chairman. Well, here's to not repeating what you've already pointed out. As is known, the House of Representatives adopted this strategy in its first reading, following a decision by the Joint Commission on Human Rights, which supported the principles of the proposal for a revised strategy for the implementation of the Annex VII Dayton Peace Agreement in BiH. And... on the Joint Commission, it is concluded that, when it is adopted further in the full procedure, the legislative procedure is to be applied, i.e. that this strategy is to be considered just as provided for in the ordinary procedure for the adoption of legal projects. We have unanimously supported this strategy on this committee, we have given the opportunity to consider these conclusions again later after the adoption in the first reading of this strategy and the conclusions... which are adopted at both home and home, that these conclusions are reassessed, that their justification may be assessed and that the final adoption of this strategy is later proposed. As is known, this is the second time this strategy is in front of the BiH Parliamentary Assembly's homes in the process. And here we are now to consider it, to make our own comments and suggestions, to consider these conclusions that the House of Representatives has already established and, eventually, to propose new ones if we have them. To assign this commission to establish and consider later, following the summation of these results from both home and home, the proposals and observations that are made, and to adopt, at last, this strategy that will be ahead of us in the second reading. I don't have anything more special to explain. I propose that, after today's debate, we adopt this strategy in the first reading and allow the Joint Commission later to consider the conclusions of the House of Representatives and the conclusions of this House, in collaboration with the Ministry of Human Rights, and finally adopt this strategy at the next session. Thank you. 21
ParlaMint-BA_2010-04-19-0.u7557	Thank you very much. I give my word to the promoter, Mr. Safet Halilović, Minister.
ParlaMint-BA_2010-04-19-0.u7558	Dear Chairman, distinguished delegates, dear guests! The revised BiH strategy for the implementation of Annex VII. The Dayton Peace Agreement was already in parliamentary procedure half last year. The reminders for the Council of Ministers, held in January 2009, discussed and set out a proposal for a revised strategy after which it was adopted at the 53rd session of the House of Representatives held in May 2009. However, the proposal did not receive the necessary entity majority at the 31st session of the People's House, held in June 2009. After that, at a session held on 7. Seven. In 2009, the Joint College of the Two Houses of the Parliamentary Assembly again updated the issue of adopting this revised strategy and asked the Council of Ministers to make additional efforts to establish a new agreed proposal and, as soon as possible, deliver it to the parliamentary procedure for adoption. Representatives of the Ministry of Human Rights and Refugees attended all sessions of the BiH Parliamentary Assembly's homes and working bodies where the strategy in question was discussed and on the basis of all discussions, proposals and suggestions identified the need for a conceptual solution in two specific areas: the essential completion of the return process by 2014 and the access to the rights of refugees and displaced persons to compensation for damages in the context of Annex VII. The Dayton Peace Agreement. With that in mind, the original document has been supplemented by two additional ones, and this Appendix 1. The Framework Programme for Returns from 2009 to 2014 and Appendix 2. The concept of resolving damage damages with the Action Plan, which you've got, is whether. The revised 'Revised Strategy' is in line with the relevant entity ministries, the government of Brcko District,... and the draft was once again forwarded to the Council of Ministers, where, with certain amendments and additions, a new text of the parliamentary proposal was established unanimously. Furthermore, in line with the 34th session of the Joint Commission on Human Rights, the rights of the child, youth, immigration, refugees, asylum and ethics in March 2010, which discussed the proposal for a revised BiH strategy for the implementation of Annex VII. The Dayton Peace Accords, we also submitted a proposal... to amend and supplement what you have in your materials, in order to determine what it is, is it? Resumed, the document in question deals in a comprehensive way with the current situation, identified problems and made recommendations for improving access to refugee rights, displaced persons and returnees within the framework of the work of... working groups, which dealt with the topic in the fields: 1. Reconstructions of refugee housing, displaced persons and returnees, the closure of collective centres and the resolution of alternative accommodation of displaced persons and returnees and social housing, with special emphasis on the problems of displaced persons and refugees and stable care... category of returnees; 22 2. Completion of the process of return of property and residential rights of refugees, displaced persons and returnees; 3. Electricalisation of return settlements and individual housing units of returnees; 4. Reconstruction of infrastructure in places of interest for refugee return, displaced persons and returnees; 5. Health protection of displaced persons and returnees; 6. Social protection of displaced persons and returnees; 7. Achievement of the right to the education of displaced persons and returnees; 8. Rights to work and employment of displaced persons and returnees; 9. Security of displaced persons and returnees and demining of the return area; 10. The right to compensate for the damages of displaced persons, refugees and returnees. In view of the fact that the right to compensation for damages, in the view of individual representatives, was under-processed, special attention in the follow-up was devoted to presenting this issue, resulting in the creation of a special document, i.e. a concept to address this issue with the Action Plan, which you also have in addition to this strategy. Also, at the request of individual representatives, a return programme has been developed with detailed indicators, dynamics and projections of the necessary funds for the essential completion of the BiH process by the end of 2014, exactly after years, is it. I believe that, after more than two years of intensive work on the revision of this extremely important and complex strategic document, a comprehensive operational framework has been developed, which will result in an improvement in the access to the rights of Annex VII. The Dayton Peace Agreement. Finally, let me remind you that the Peace Implementation Council in BiH, on several occasions at its meetings, stressed the need to adopt and implement this document as soon as possible, i.e. these strategies. We believe that by taking effect 'the revised strategy for the implementation of Annex VII. The Dayton Peace Agreement" has provided adequate rights to all categories of refugees and displaced persons, and we propose that this strategy be adopted as soon as possible. Thank you.
ParlaMint-BA_2010-04-19-0.u7559	Thank you very much. I'm opening a debate. Mr. Šaraba, then Ivo Miro Jović.
ParlaMint-BA_2010-04-19-0.u7560	Thank you, Mr. Chairman. Dear colleagues, therefore, I would personally like to express my dissatisfaction with this revised strategy, as the Association of the Association of Displaced Persons, Returnees and Refugees in the RS has expressed its dissatisfaction with this revised strategy. Their basic position is that the strategy is necessary and necessary for BiH but with major changes compared to this text, as well as that refugees and displaced persons want to see the state in action, 23 on this particular issue. There are still many vague, inaccurate and ambiguous terms in the completed and revised strategy. It gives room for future misunderstandings and obstructions in the realization of this document. In addition to the right to return the property, Annex VII has guaranteed a non-refundable asset. However, the issue of compensation that cannot be returned is not precisely regulated. Therefore, the issue, in the Association's view, should be more precisely defined and it would be best if instead of the term 'unreturnable property', it simply says 'destroyed and damaged property'. aneks vi further states that refugees and displaced persons have the right to choose places of life and in this revised strategy many places talk about the principle of volunteering where they want to live and how to make up for their property. Then why is it said in this strategy that the right to compensation only has those who cannot return, and not, say, those who do not want to return? Is it possible that most of them are in RS? Whether it's accidental or deliberate to forget that many have come to compensation, it's plain to say, by fraud. They swore on their way back, applied for a refund, waited their turn to receive just compensation, because they were entitled to it, and then, when they got it, of course they sold it all. Isn't that discrimination against those who have truly believed and expected compensation from the beginning? From the aspect of international law, including European human rights law, the right to compensation is the obligation of the state. This right should be given to all citizens whose property has been destroyed or damaged, who have not otherwise resolved the issue. So this proposal for a strategy is a good basis, but without correction, it would have discriminatory elements, it treats everything the same no matter what anyone had before. It offers only a roof, and life issues of refugees and displaced persons need to be addressed as social issues. How could the creators of this strategy so that compensation could endanger and suspend the return? Well, maybe just one of the people who makes the funds will invest on their return in this way. And at the same time, it wasn't seen that most young people decided to stay in new places of life, because it's actually their place. It wasn't taken care of to help them. Officials at the Ministry of Refugees and Displaced Persons say 45,000 families or about 150,000 people want to return. The people in this association are openly saying it's not true. They applied for a return because they realized that those who simulated it in the past were better off than them and that it was the only way they could get something. Therefore, the compensation issue should be resolved quite differently, in line with the requirements and proposals as set out in the proposal for suggestions that came from the Association of Displaced Persons, Returnees and Refugees in the RS. Thank you.
ParlaMint-BA_2010-04-19-0.u7561	Thank you very much. Mr Ivo Miro Jović. Here you go. Ivo Miro
ParlaMint-BA_2010-04-19-0.u7562	Thank you very much. 24 I will immediately say at the beginning that I will be among those who will vote in favour of this strategy, and from my discussion will be criticised for this document. Don't ask me because I'm going to tell you: how come 40 km from Ostrosac to Fojnica through the valley of Neretvice no renovated house? Don't ask me because I'm going to tell you, how come 40 miles from Doboj to Brod are all ruined, nowhere to be found? I'll tell you, that's where the Hrvat lived. They received 1.9% of the total funding from this country and the international community. In the position of the constitutional in which we are, there is no wallet in our pocket as with the other two so I cannot help the poor, nor return, nor compensate, so also do not be surprised that only two months ago 2 million support in dollars only in four-five municipalities of eastern Bosnia and Herzegovina is granted for the return of one nation. And I'm looking for reasons right here on page 5 of the document that's in front of us. I'm analyzing who was doing this strategy. State-level: Representatives of the Return Fund; at Federation level: Ministry of Displaced Persons and Refugees; at RS level: Ministry of Refugees and Displaced Persons. So, the direct contractors of money, which I have already said is the result, interesting: of 20, no Hrvat. State-level funds, two entity ministries, in the Federation: out of 10, all 10 Bošnjak; in RS: out of eight, all eight are Srbin! When these people are supposed to come back, I guess they need to be waited for security. Even from the Ministry of Security, no Hrvat! So these people should get a job, so at the level of the State Agency for State Service, Agency for Labour and Employment, then the Federation Employment Office, the Federation State Service Agency, so the RS, and none of the Hrvat! Well, those kids should go to school there! The representatives of education and none of the Hrvat! Well, I had to say it, I'll keep saying it, and whoever has the opposite arguments would be happy with me, I wouldn't regret it, and I really have to keep believing, because the other one is gone, that at least through this we're going to bring back some Hrvat.
ParlaMint-BA_2010-04-19-0.u7563	Thank you very much. Mrs Alma Čolo. Here you go. Then Božo Ljubić.
ParlaMint-BA_2010-04-19-0.u7564	The revised BiH strategy for the implementation of Annex VII. I consider the Dayton Peace Accords a strategy that will allow refugees and displaced persons to return to their pre-war dwellings, all those who have so far been unable to return to their dwellings. Well, therefore, what Mr. Slobodan Šaraba said, that the right to compensation for the property, the compensation for the property that cannot be returned should be renamed in the right to compensation for all the destroyed and damaged property, I believe that his remark is not right because aneks vii.. It's about the compensation of assets that can't be returned. Annex VII. First of all, it applies primarily to persons who want to return to prewar dwellings. Such persons should be allowed peaceful and harmonious reintegration, and the parties will create such conditions that will allow them to reintegration in the areas where they lived before the war. It's literally in Annex VII. 25 And the compensation of assets that cannot be returned means those assets that have been destroyed, which in any other way cannot be returned – to such persons this ministry has also taken this right... and worked out in this strategy, so I think we should support this strategy in the first reading. The Commission for Human Rights has made it possible, in accordance with the legislative procedure, by which laws can be passed, to bring in all other documents, and therefore this strategy, so that in the amendment phase, we will be able to act on some of the things provided for in this strategy in this way. But I think the return strategy should be a return strategy, it should be a return strategy first and foremost. So it's not a state that's being held back by force, it's that everyone who wants to go back to the places where they lived in '92. The years return to those dwellings, to allow them to work there, to live. And who won't come back to aneks vii.? It really says that the sides will not interfere with the right to choose a place of life. Everyone has the right to live wherever they want. But the state can't help... just like the ones who want to come back and the ones who chose to live, I don't know, now in New York, so they need to get an apartment there and buy them an apartment in New York. I mean, those two rights are certainly not the same.
ParlaMint-BA_2010-04-19-0.u7565	Thank you very much. Mr. Slobodan Šaraba, replica. Here you go.
ParlaMint-BA_2010-04-19-0.u7566	Well, Mrs. Čolo, in her famous way, continues to give lessons to everyone, even this time. Mrs. Čolo, there really are people who don't want to come back. They were in prison, they were exposed to torture, torture. So people who can't come back for psychological reasons. Well, we have to respect those reasons. What makes you so right? So you're looking at it unilaterally, so that's why you're wrong. You need to take a wide look at things. Take a wide look and put yourself in the role and position of those people who just don't want to go back to the environments they used to be in. And it should be respected by their right to do so.
ParlaMint-BA_2010-04-19-0.u7567	Alma Čolo.
ParlaMint-BA_2010-04-19-0.u7568	Well, I really can't accept that I, as a State MP, vote for an existing state. It means that the financial state supports the staying of someone who went from Sarajevo to Banja Luka and that we financially support it. I'll only support the return. And I'll vote for it. I really don't know why you'd...
ParlaMint-BA_2010-04-19-0.u7569	Okay. Replica, Mr. Ivanic. 26
ParlaMint-BA_2010-04-19-0.u7570	I don't think Mrs. Čolo had to do it exclusively to defend her position on which she was right. And those who remain BiH citizens, had a tragedy, destroyed their houses, it doesn't matter where they are, but they are BiH citizens. The one in New York, come on, I accept that you have an argument, but for those living in BiH, they want to stay in BiH, you have absolutely no argument. And these are BiH citizens, victims of this war. Now, which political someone doesn't respond conceptually, and I can understand that, but you can't condemn them and say that they don't exist. There are, objectively there are.
ParlaMint-BA_2010-04-19-0.u7571	Božo Ljubić.
ParlaMint-BA_2010-04-19-0.u7572	/no microphone turned on/
ParlaMint-BA_2010-04-19-0.u7573	Okay, Mrs. Majkić, replica.
ParlaMint-BA_2010-04-19-0.u7574	I want to say that last time we voted against the proposal for a revised return strategy just because it contained only one principle, it was a return. And that's why we voted against it. Here, now we have this strategy in front of us which means that peaceful integration or the right for people to choose where they live. So the right and return that is equal is also the right to compensation for damages, i.e. compensation to persons who cannot return or restore property. So now we've evened all three principles. And in the original version, there was only one, just a return. So this ministry has made a certain effort, and together with the other institutions that worked in the field, it has completed this job where all three rights under the Annex VII of the Dayton Agreement have been leveled. So we're not talking, if we're just talking about going back, we're going to go back to the first form of the proposal for a revised strategy, so we're going to have a problem again.
ParlaMint-BA_2010-04-19-0.u7575	Okay. Here, it's all a discussion, not a replica.
ParlaMint-BA_2010-04-19-0.u7576	/no microphone turned on/
ParlaMint-BA_2010-04-19-0.u7577	Božo's waiting a long time. I don't know, if you want, I'll make it possible for everyone.
ParlaMint-BA_2010-04-19-0.u7578	Well, the Ministry really put in one add-on, it's 'compensation for property that can't be returned'. But now that bothers too. Here, Slobodan Šaraba won't call it that. And in Annex VII. It's literally what they call it. 27
ParlaMint-BA_2010-04-19-0.u7579	Okay. We've got Božo Ljubić, so we've got Drago Ljubičić.
ParlaMint-BA_2010-04-19-0.u7580	Mr. Chairman, colleagues and fellow envoys, delegates, gentlemen from the Council of Ministers, is not the problem I have been waiting for, the problem is that refugees have been waiting for 15 years. Therefore, at first I would like to say that I welcome the adoption of this strategy. This is too complex a document to be covered by a debate here at the House, and it's also too important to be ignored by this high house, whose responsibility, or thanks to this strategy, is about a year late. Thanks, if we're going to get a better document now; responsibility, because we're one year behind on the implementation of this document. So reading this document, we come up with very devastating facts, so of the 2.2 million refugees and displaced people still more than half of them have not returned to their hearths. And from that we read about how many tectonic disorders this war has caused in this country of BiH. Another devastating fact for me is that over 2,700 families live in collective accommodation today. It's actually not only unacceptable, it's unforgivable in this country that has solved so many problems in these 15 years and, of course, still faces many. Why is it important and why this annex is, in fact, important to me, to stop the war, to implement peace, the most important annex? Because it penetrates the essence of the structure of this country's functioning. We are all witnesses here, so no matter at which level we act as government in BiH – executive, whether we are members of one parliament or another, certain mechanisms for adopting decisions in our homes, including this famous so-called so-called. entity voting – but we return to Dayton and we cannot accuse the creators of this Dejton, including that Constitution that I do not support, or I am sticking to it while it is valid, but I am trying to change it in the constitutional procedure, which was actually counting on refugee returns, so he introduced entity voting institutes as instruments of protection of regional, or entity interests. However, precisely because of Annex VII. It's not realized, we have today, so that institute has turned into an ethnic vote. And today, we have this problem that we have, and today, in some ways, it, I say, shows itself as a stumbling block in certain agreements on the reform of the Constitution. Namely, if there were 250,000 Hrvat who lived there before the war, if at least half of them had returned there to the RS entity, we would have at least one Hrvat here in the House today, at the club from the RS entity, and probably at least two in the House of Representatives, etc. Not only are I talking about Hrvat, it can also be said about Srbin in the Federation entity and Bosniaks and in both entities, etc. What I consider to be another, to say the unacceptable fact from this period that is behind us is one proportion to the realization of return, both to the constituent peoples and to the entities. So here I draw your attention to the data: out of 1,025,000 registered returns, 72% refers to the Federation of BiH, recorded therefore, realised returns, and only 26% to RS. It is even more devastating when, to put it that way, we look at it from a national point of view, so the most recent fact is that only 8.5% of Hrvat have returned to RS. Only 8.5% of Hrvat! Whether or not it's permanent, it's a question. So in one such situation, 28 return, of course, we can't expect a different relationship, even when it comes to constitutional reform, or when we look back at renewed objects. In the Federation of BiH, 25% remained unrenewed, destroyed or severely damaged housing funds... almost 50%, hence the unrenewed and destroyed housing fund in RS. And then it's no wonder, what Mr. Jović said earlier, when you start from Doboj to Brod, you see only, for a time only the chimneys of Doboj were seen, and today you don't even see chimneys. What's the reason? Are the funds allocated, is it because the Hrvat live there, is it because there was not enough funds from the international community to help these people, was there not enough will to do so or to seek funds in the entity? It's a matter of analysis now, but it won't do us much good in the future. And therefore, I certainly welcome the implementation of this strategy, its acceptance, but I cannot reconcile with one sentence from this strategy, which is on page 4 which says: "The essential conclusion of the return process by 2014 and access to the rights of refugees, displaced persons and damages", etc. etc. I'm not for it at all, in a situation where over a million and 100,000 people haven't returned to their hearths, we're talking about a crucial end. As a war crime doesn't get old, so it can't get old with the right to return. So we have no right to say about the end of 2014 return. Therefore, to conclude this debate, I support the adoption of this strategy, I believe that in the implementation of this strategy, especially when it comes to the distribution of funds for return, that we cannot deal linearly with these things, because linearly, as we can see, there has not been any realisation, but that, in fact, those who will be responsible for this, and at the level of state and entity, are treated selectively, and in the first part, supporting the restoration of objects and return where it is least represented, whether it is an entity, whether it is a region. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-BA_2010-04-19-0.u7581	Thank you very much. Mr. Drago Ljubičić. Here you go.
ParlaMint-BA_2010-04-19-0.u7582	I thank you, Mr. Chairman. Gentlemen of the Kolegijum, colleagues and colleagues of this House, gentlemen of the Council of Ministers, other distinguished guests, here we have heard, and I will repeat that the proposal for this strategy is in the process for the second time, and I would say in a certain way that this proposal for a third time comes, I think for the third time, in a certain way, in an optical way. And here's how this third proposal when we got, frankly, I was hoping that we'd go on with this strategy anyway, because this is how we recognized in this third proposal some elements that we could accept this time and that this goes on. And, to really try to solve the problems of this category of inhabitants that are significant and large and burden BiH safely. I'll tell you the truth, we from the SNSD when we've agreed and prepared for this session, and last time and today, and when it comes to this point of the agenda, we have an attitude to support this strategy and we've even negotiated in a certain way and we don't engage in much of the discussion and we simply support it for a lot of some of our reasons, when it comes to 29 of this. But here, the discussion goes the way it goes, so we can't obviously avoid getting involved in this debate. Well, let me say a little something about this proposal. My main observation, rather, is that each time these strategies were treated unilaterally by only one group of refugees and displaced persons in BiH. Here, I will repeat what some have already said and have recognized: essentially, they treated everyone in principle only those refugees and displaced persons who have declared their return, although it is known to everyone, what Mr. Šaraba and Mr. Ivanić said, we are persistently saying that there are other groups of refugees and displaced persons in BiH, and that is the group, here I accept, says, which cannot return to their pre-war hearths but, undisputed, they have pleaded that they do not want to return. We can't get away from that reality, we can't keep running from that fact. We keep saying that in the Dayton Peace Agreement in Annex VII, although we see other interpretations, the rights provided for both, and therefore we asked persistently and expected solutions to rights issues to be proposed in this revised strategy, meaning both. The third proposal, this one now, means this proposal, let me say which second time is in the procedure, i.e. The proposal for a revised strategy differs in some of the elements compared to the previous two proposals. The important difference for me is here in this strategy, let me comment on page 29 in point 1.2. So let me, I'll read it, precisely because I want to point out again that these rights are equally foreseen by me. 'A legal framework reform is needed to ensure equal access to the rights of refugees, displaced persons and returnees in formal status and all those who are defacto displaced. All the competent institutions in BiH, in order to finally and fully address refugee and displaced persons and returnees, will enable all three rights under the Annex VII of the Dayton Peace Agreement, and that – right to return, right”, I repeat,'specially the right to choose a place of life', is no longer just a right for people who have declared that they will not return because their property has been destroyed, people have the right to choose and place of life, this is here and established, 'and the right to compensate for the damages in accordance with Annex VII of the Dayton Peace Agreement." I understand this that the promoter finally had the strength to admit and accept that in this strategy at least in this way all three rights of refugees and displaced persons are found, I repeat, in the Dayton Peace Agreement. The second difference is on page 52 of point 6.1, which we also recognized in relation to the current proposals of these strategies, which refers to the subject matter of compensation, here, even though we had observations and reactions and that question, but here, we recognized that difference. The minister told us, and we saw it with the proposal for a revised strategy, we got Appendix 1 and Appendix 2. The proposal for a strategy in Appendix 1 to the detail elaborates the rights and problems of returnees with a financial proposal and deadlines of solving them to detail, meaning by municipalities, which I have really nothing against, and I would really be happy to find solutions for this second Appendix 2 in some subsequent period also offers solutions for this second group. In Appendix 2 relating to a long group of refugees and displaced persons, differences and opinions in opinions to address issues of refugees and displaced persons who do not want to return have been identified and confirmed. These are evident differences in attitudes and opinions coming from the Federation of BiH and RS. Thus, in this Appendix 2 only this was established and once again confirmed many questions open to which there is no answer (deficiency of laws, regulations in this area, etc.) 30 A large number of persons from BiH, Bošnjak, Hrvat and Srbin fled during the war and went around the world, from Australia, Europe to America, and moved within BiH. We all know that. Many in these areas have regulated their status, started a new life, and I personally think that they will never return to prewar places of life for their own reasons that they probably know, so, and who they are known, I would never get into it. Personally, I think that the positions of the Federation of BiH on this issue and the treatment of this and the thinking will not change and will continue to insist on a 100% return, and this is what we heard today, and we could recognize that, and I at least recognized it in the proposal of this strategy, although we are aware that this will never happen, what I mentioned earlier. Realising that there is a political background in this story, primarily with Bosniak political parties, I don't think that at the level of BiH there will be a compensation fund or a compensation fund and that at least recently at BiH level, this is my opinion and assessment, it will not solve the issues of refugees and displaced persons who do not want to return, so for all these reasons. Let me end up with another part of my commentary. It's sad for me, and there's a big problem in BiH when it comes to refugees and displaced persons, which is that all the time from certain circles in the Federation of BiH is the story that some of the consequences of ethnic cleansing and genocide and others have left their own hearths, not to comment. Someone will think it was nice for them so, as the people say, they didn't know what to do or what to do, so they make up everything. Gentlemen, the truth is completely different. Both of them, I personally think, for the same or similar reasons left their hearths. And while we in BiH and on this issue and on many other issues do not speak differently and discuss differently, I think we will find some of the solutions we need and the ones we need for BiH in the coming period. Thank you.
ParlaMint-BA_2010-04-19-0.u7583	Thank you very much. Mr. Božo Rajić.
ParlaMint-BA_2010-04-19-0.u7584	Thank you, Mr. Chairman. Here, now we come to a situation where this little controversy between me and Mrs. Majkić shows up in action. So, when there is an objective interest in dealing with one topic, then there is no important number of participants and it is not a problem, we can sleep if we have to in Parliament, and this is certainly one of the topics, this item of the agenda that should occupy our attention, even if it were better than it is, and not as it is. So, I'm going to try to get away from the need or the case to repeat the data that's been said, but I'm going to have to remind them of some basic points, though, actually. So, in principle, at the beginning, I have to show myself that I support the adoption of this strategy, and at this point I won't look at her teeth. I will not look at its details, but I will express some views as a possible category of principles, or principles, for making such an important document and expressing concern that the ambiguity of the concepts can lead us to some new temptations and new problems. 31 So, I fully support Mr. Jović's argument, which has been justified, argued so much that no one opposed his claims, pointed to a disastrous strategic attitude towards the return of Hrvat throughout BiH, especially in the RS area where arguments should not be sought. I would ask, here we form various committees – investigative, multi-comfessional, or multi-ethnic, multinational, etc. – to form one that will sit in the car and drive these beautiful parts of our BiH and see what the moon's surface looks like in action. Let's make a contribution to that, and let's go through these parts where there are no people, where they were like bees before this war or what happened. Today, they are gone and determined in fact... and the responsibilities of certain political parties within BiH, especially some Croatian parties, is this a thought-out scenario that by maintaining a deserted month in BiH without people, without Hrvat can continue to exploit the fact that we have blamed ourselves and dissipated ourselves. So here I call, especially my colleagues from the RS, to sit in the car and take a ride with the Bosnian Posavina, and we sit down and walk through the valley of Neretva. So why is it that the Bosnian Sasavina and part of the Neretva Valley, I extremely single it out as areas, looks like a picture from the movie Post Day. And this isn't about how Mr. Ljubić mentioned it earlier, but in some global image, it's not about the space from Brod to Derventa, it's about Brod to Doboj and from Brod to Orsaj. So this whole space is equal to a wasteland, it looks just like the moon's surface. It's an area where they only succeed, and no one touches them, mines. There are mines out there, and they're standing there on purpose so there won't be people. I declare this with full moral and political responsibility – there are mines there on purpose so that people cannot return, because you cannot rebuild the houses when the minefield is below the window, behind the door. But well, 'it's not snowing to kill the world but to show clues', let's see how in this BiH with all the oaths -- global, partial -- we treat the life needs of people who are least guilty of what happened to them and what they can't do to their home. Secondly, Mr Ljubić expressed his position, I suppose, (although we have not consulted on that it will be a unique position of the Croatian Representatives Club in this House),... that we can talk about the dynamicization of the process termed for 2014, so including improving all assumptions for returning and pushing these cars maximum, but we will never agree that there is a term – when the return ends. The return for us remains an open, untouchable, moral and divine right that no one in this country will be able to limit. But we're going to do and we're going to support everything we need to do by 2014 as much as possible to get that back closer to some desired state, that we've done, at least, a good majority of these jobs. I said I'd express some concerns about the terminology in this document. Obviously, from the polemics that fellow MPs have shown in the debate so far, we do not agree on the definition of concepts. First, we disagree on what Annex VII defines. The Dayton Peace Accords are not completely demarcated terms. Clearly, there is no clear distinction between the concepts: a displaced person within BiH, a displaced person within a social political community, or municipality. It is not a clear term, especially not a clear term of 'compensation', i.e. 'the damage to property that cannot be returned'. I honestly say that's not clear to me. What does that mean he can't come back? So that's what the term 'right to choice of place of life' is about. That's true, but I'm not sure if that means choosing places of life and right and supporting financial to change the place of life by my own free will. 32 So, Mr. Minister, if you've registered some of these thoughts, I'm afraid it will be necessary in the second phase, better in the second phase than later, to define these terms, to put on very clear principles. We need to know exactly what rights are set in this strategy and there can be no questions of discussion and guessing and what are the concepts that are being read about in the implementation of this document. It seems to me that in the terms of 'right to choose the place of residence', we will be entitled to 'compensation for property that cannot be returned', and it is not defined what it means, and the definition, which Mrs. Čolo tried to quote, about what 'right to return' means, that it will lead us to some confusion, so I am afraid of some political conflicts that will go to the harm of implementing, or the quality of the implementation of this document. So, if I don't go further into the process, I ask that the applicant, because there will certainly be intervention, amendments, closely monitor these remarks and try to come up with a clearer definition. So it doesn't have to change this strategy, but it can be said in the chapters, the points in the subpoints that, by that definition, we mean that, that, that, so put it in the bracket. I know clearly what I'm talking about. I think Mr. Šaraba is right, because by that means the right to compensate for the loss of property in one way or another and the right to go... with that compensation to live wherever I want, on the trail of what Mr. Ivanić said: remains a citizen, not only a citizen but a citizen of BiH, etc. But it seems to me that this strategy doesn't give us enough ground to believe, it's going to be a flow document. But whatever it is I think this is a step forward and that this should be supported in the first reading, and all reasonable proposals that will go forward in upgrading this document in the second phase I will try in a constructive way to understand and support it. Thank you.
ParlaMint-BA_2010-04-19-0.u7585	Now I give myself my word to say a few words. Dear colleagues, members of the Council of Ministers, the media, here is the proposal for a revised return strategy. It reminds me of those times when I was also an MP at the National Assembly of the RS when, I say, we broke the ice back in '96, '97, '98, '99. Here some were in other positions both in the Federation and in the RS, and we dealt with these issues from property laws, obstructions that were on their way back to security and other problems. It's been 15 years since the Dayton Agreement, and we have these results as we have, and I see dissatisfaction. However, we are all, in a certain way, more or less responsible for these results, because the results of the return are also the results of the policies in relation to the return that existed in those times, which did not just as well as today speak clearly about the return and return possibilities. But what's there is, I wouldn't go in now why these are the results and who contributed to it. We're all somehow more or less responsible for this condition as it is right now. I think we should concentrate on adopting this revised strategy, you know. To make it possible for all those who wish to return, for all those to whom the property has been destroyed or damaged, to give compensation for that property. Because these are the people who, among other things, have lost the most in this war besides all those other hardships and sufferings. It is very important here that all those who wish to return will be made possible, all those whose property has been destroyed will be compensated, regardless of whether he was a Srbin, Hrvat, Bošnjak, etc. 33 The most important thing is to adopt this strategy as soon as possible, you know that 15 years have passed. Now to enter what was, as it was, but coming back, I think the issue of return is also important for the survival of the BiH state, you know, and that we should do everything possible to establish that structure that was before '92. A year. Normally, it's not possible to establish how it was in '92. For years, it's not even after any war that's possible, so it won't be with us either. But let's do what we can do as soon as we can, so we don't delay this strategy any longer, so we don't argue about any formulations of whether a little more money will go to one side or the other. I am for that, here when we talk about coming back, I think we can all agree that the results of the Hrvat return are the worst, the worst, and that it is necessary to help those who want to return to find certain funds, adequate resources, the necessary means for that return. That we have neither here in the valley of Neretva nor, I don't know you, the valley of Bosnia or anywhere else when it comes to other nations. Today is a completely different debate, a different tone of debate compared to the time before. And that's why I also agree with those who say no deadline should be set. As long as there's one man who wants to return, there's no way anyone can limit any regulations, no government, no entity, when it comes to those assets that someone enjoyed and owned before '92. A year. So, here, I'm calling, and I see that's what you've all said, to adopt this strategy in the first reading and to put it in the second reading as soon as possible and to go: based on this strategy to raise the loan of 500 million, we can't isolate it from our budgets, you know. No, all the budgets when we put together, both the entity and the state and the canton and the municipalities, don't carry 80 million a year, we've done some math somewhere. We need a loan, and for a loan, we need to have a strategy and we need to have everything else required to raise the loan, and there's a political consensus to raise the loan for the return. Thank you very much. Is anyone else answering for word? Branko Zrno. I'm sorry, I didn't see.
ParlaMint-BA_2010-04-19-0.u7586	Thank you very much. I've been answering my word a long time ago, although it seems to me now that this story should be brought to an end. What is important here is certainly to accept this strategy. If we are to list from page to page, any page can be a good template for discussion and for our views, but what has been said so far should certainly be recorded. According to this, this strategy, which is ahead of us, must be upgraded and changed by the period 2014 until it has addressed at least part of the problems that should be offered or in such a way that it will be upgraded or changed. I wanted to refer more to one fact, because we often go over very important facts, but here are the colleagues who spoke both Ljubić and Rajić, so in part Tihić respected and mentioned the fact, i.e. I wanted to refer to... what was referred to by fellow Jović. Because what he referred to is not and does not necessarily have to be a factor of good or bad strategy. However, what he referred to is actually real and in any case it is either frustrating or better to state what is going on, which is long. The frustrating truth that is not a strategy, but the state that we have today in one part, and that's what's worrying. This 34 strategy is trying in all ways to solve the problems that have happened, i.e. this strategy is trying to solve the consequences of what happened. And what we're talking about, it's the fact that we are in today. And does this strategy, as it is and what it will anyway receive a passing grade in this home, deserve what is said, which is related to it, and does not directly refer to it? And I think that's what we need, I'm just repeating that we wouldn't forget, that's what we need to take care of. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-BA_2010-04-19-0.u7587	Thank you very much. If no one answers their word anymore, I'm putting this strategy to the vote in the first reading. Who Is For? Who Is “against ”? One “against ” and one“ abstention. ” I agree that we adopted the revised BiH strategy for the implementation of Annex VII. The Dayton Peace Agreement in the first reading. Moving to the 25th point of the agenda: Ad. 25. Proposal for a strategy for sports development in Bosnia and Herzegovina – Proposer: Council of Ministers of BiH You've been given the Constitutional Commission's opinion. The Commission has adopted the conclusion and is proposing to the House its adoption. The House of Representatives adopted the Constitutional Commission's conclusion. I give my word to the chairman of the Constitutional Commission, Mr. Ivo Miri Jović. Ivo Miro
ParlaMint-BA_2010-04-19-0.u7589	"Thank you so much for giving me your word. I can only say what's in the opinion, only you should repeat it. Since we're a little tired of this time and work, I'd like to give up my comment.
ParlaMint-BA_2010-04-19-0.u7590	Okay, thank you very much. Ivo Miro
ParlaMint-BA_2010-04-19-0.u7591	I'd just say, "Let's back it up." 35
ParlaMint-BA_2010-04-19-0.u7592	I'm opening a debate. If no one answers their word, can we vote? Who is "for" this proposal? Is there anyone “against ”? With two abstentions, I realize we adopted this.
ParlaMint-BA_2010-04-19-0.u7593	It's a conclusion.
ParlaMint-BA_2010-04-19-0.u7594	... we are voting on this conclusion proposed by the Commission. Who Is For? That's actually it, I'm sorry. Moving to 26th point, Ad. 26. Discussion on the 2009 Council of Europe activity report - a proposal for discussion: the PSBiH delegation to the Parliamentary Assembly of the Council of Europe They are calling for Resolution 1575 since 2007 of the Parliamentary Assembly of the Council of Europe, which calls on the parliaments of the member states to hold a debate on the subject at least once a year. The chairman of this delegation has submitted a proposal to include this item on the agenda of the session. As a material for this point, you received a report on the activities of the Council of Europe in 2009 with the following contributions: the Monitoring Report of the Committee of the Parliamentary Assembly of the Council of Europe on the functioning of democratic institutions in BiH and, in addition to this report, the Resolution of the Parliamentary Assembly of the Council of Europe 1701 since 2010, the Recommendation of the Parliamentary Assembly of the Council of Europe in 1894, the Report from the meeting and meetings of the Committee of the Parliamentary Assembly of the Council of Europe, which were attended during 2009 by members of the Assembly of the Parliamentary Assembly of BiH in the Parliamentary Assembly of the Council of Europe. The Commission for Foreign and Trade Policy, Customs, Transport and Communications has taken note of this report and proposes to adopt conclusions to the House. The House of Representatives adopted four conclusions proposed by the committee. I give my word to the Chairman of the Commission, Alma Čolo. Here you go. 36
ParlaMint-BA_2010-04-19-0.u7596	Mr. Chairman, I don't know if there are any needs,... but here we have proposed these conclusions because BiH has not fulfilled some post-prepared obligations such as the ratification of this European Charter on Regional and Minority Languages, and we still don't have appointed representatives in the Venice Commission, in the Committee for the Prevention of Tortrum, we are the only country of 47 members of the Council of Europe that has no representative in the Committee for the Prevention of Tortrum, we have no representative in the Committee that addresses the issue of racial intolerance, so we have proposed these conclusions. If necessary, I will be involved in the debate, but this report mainly contains the activities of the Council of Europe in 2009, the activities of our delegation and the activities of the meetings held in 2009 and the meetings of the Committee to which members of our delegation are very rarely going because of the lack of financial resources, and the meetings of the Committee take place between the regular meetings of the Parliamentary Assembly. Thank you.
ParlaMint-BA_2010-04-19-0.u7597	Thank you very much. I'm opening a debate. Mr. Slobodan Šaraba, here you go, then Mladen Ivanić.
ParlaMint-BA_2010-04-19-0.u7598	Thank you, Mr. Chairman. So I'm going to say a few sentences about this report. As far as its content is concerned, this is a very correct report, but this report raises all the problems that really exist in this country and which are due to the poor work of the current government. The questions are quite logical and they are written here, so they are the result of the poor work of ministers and members of the Presidency, and everything can be understood – why has BiH not yet ratified the European Charter of Regional and Minority Languages and why has BiH not appointed its members to the European committees and the European Commission? So it is clear that this is the result of someone's poor work, and I would like the report to say precisely who it really is, although this is the result here: so the Presidency has failed to fulfil its obligations, the Council of Ministers did not refer this document to parliamentary procedure, and that is the essence of all this is written here. This report, in my opinion, only makes it possible for my colleague Ivanić to work well, so there have been no going to meetings or many other failures, but the fact that BiH today is so with this ruling coalition and that nothing can change at this time. Thank you.
ParlaMint-BA_2010-04-19-0.u7599	Thank you very much. Mr. Mladen Ivanić. Here you go. 37
ParlaMint-BA_2010-04-19-0.u7600	First, I must say that, regardless of our political differences, the ambience that exists in our delegation is quite correct. So there's a lot of difference between us, we look at the same things differently, but we're all there as individuals and as individuals, and when we perform, we speak not as a delegation but as individuals, as well as here what each of us carries with us. But what is the shame of this country is the fact that we haven't had a member in the Venice Commission in seven or eight years. It's an embarrassment of this country, but the only reason it's embarrassing is because two, three men, who are once or now sitting in the presidency, can't agree to send three candidates in an equal manner. And we're not going to... seven years is the last time the proposal was and all the mistake was being given one candidate as a preference, and they don't accept it, they choose themselves among equal candidates. And that's why we can't have our own member there and then we have a formal one representation through one of our former members who's there, and in fact there's no function. Well, it's a shame we don't have experts, they're not political figures, these three, four bodies. It's a disgrace, we're the only country that for years, because of its incompetence and lack of interest in competent ministries, has no representatives. We've been embarrassed there for years. And the most basic, minimal thing that has nothing to do with politics anymore, let them choose from the hats who will be from which party, just somebody come to sit in those places once, they're experts, they're not politicians. But it's one general indifference and one only fuss when these people come to get our problems, and when we need something to do here, nothing is done. I really think it's a terrible responsibility of the Presidency and the Council of Ministers for the Venice Commission, and of the competent ministries for these... professional bodies. And I think that one affirmation that BiH could get there is simply, I would say, in a way, and one chance is a little lost. I think it's important that this delegation started delivering these reports. I must say that it would be very interesting sometimes to give some of the documents, which the Council of Europe, which, i.e. the Council of Europe, adopts, informably to the MPs. I must tell you that I think it would be a very useful debate for us, which was in the Council of Europe, under the circumstances I led it, but one debate on the status of the Russian soldiers' monument in the countries that have now gained independence. Because of the associations about our events, what we're going with and what culture, the relationship and the way we're dealing with it, so that it might be very informative to solve some of our inner affairs. And I think that the whole other part, not that we are dealing with the Council of Europe only when it comes to BiH, should be given much more attention. There are so many topics that are important to us, that go by, and we don't really know them. So, at least I suggest that we from this delegation, or the deputies, try and ask each delegate to get, so who's interested, who's not interested in anyone. This is the responsibility of the institutions, please, not these delegations. The delegation can only mention this, we don't choose.
ParlaMint-BA_2010-04-19-0.u7601	Thank you very much. Is anyone else answering for word? 38 If he does not answer, can we take in knowledge and adopt the Commission’s conclusions? Who Is For? Is there anyone “against ”? "Contained"? With one vote "against" and one vote "abstained", I find that we have received the report and adopted these four conclusions proposed by the Commission. Moving to the 27th point of the agenda: Ad. 27. Report on activities on the project Highway to Corridor Vc and Next Activity Plan (the BiH Ministry of Communications and Transport material) The BiH Ministry of Communications and Transport provided these materials. You have received the opinion of the Commission for Foreign and Trade Policy, Customs, Transport and Communications. The Commission adopted the Activity Report on the project Autopute on Corridor Vc and Plan of Next Activities. The House of Representatives adopted a report on activities on the project Autopute on Corridor Vc and Plan of Next Activities. I give my word to the Chairman of the Commission, Alma Čolo, if there is any need. There isn't. I give my word to Minister Rudi Vidović.
ParlaMint-BA_2010-04-19-0.u7603	/no microphone turned on/
ParlaMint-BA_2010-04-19-0.u7604	It's like this in the Rules of Procedure, but here we go, I agree. Perhaps, Minister, that the Rules of Procedure should first be given to the motionary and then open the debate. But what you're saying, Mr. Šarab, is practically better. Here you go. Mr. Šaraba answered.
ParlaMint-BA_2010-04-19-0.u7605	Thank you, Mr. Chairman. So, I'm going to ask a question here and I want to make one of my comments on this information. Since we have this and similar information...
ParlaMint-BA_2010-04-19-0.u7606	/no microphone turned on/
ParlaMint-BA_2010-04-19-0.u7607	Yeah, maybe that too. 39
ParlaMint-BA_2010-04-19-0.u7608	... We hear exposure, maybe there wouldn't be any questions, maybe it would be better that way. [[no microphone turned on]]
ParlaMint-BA_2010-04-19-0.u7609	All right, let's get to the Rules of Procedure. We'll have to get to the Rules of Procedure first. Minister Rudo Vidović. Here you go.
ParlaMint-BA_2010-04-19-0.u7610	The Honorable President, the Honorable Co-chairs, ladies and gentlemen MPs, of course, The Highway to Corridor Vc is the biggest investment operation in BiH and it is logical to be both questions and to inform the country's highest home and more, of course, in relation to what is written in this information, i.e. in this report. This is our regular way of compiling a report for a certain period and this report refers to last year, in conclusion with 31.12. as it is written. And I don't really intend to read or explain the parts of this report here, I believe that you've all read it, but I intend to present to this home the arguments, or the realization of some conclusions, in fact, what happened from 31.12. to today, so after three months, and what progress has been made, and it's not written in this report. So here I can say that one of the most important conclusions, which is at the end of this written report, the third conclusion is in some way fully realized and I would like to inform you about it. Of course, the parallel activities conducted last year by the State Ministry of Communications and Transport, when it comes to the production of project documentation, together with the entity ministries and the Entity Directorate for Highways, are here after these activities that the Federation Government has completed signalled with the county ministries of spatial planning and municipal administrations for the purpose of making, or issuing, the necessary consent for the four shares which are subject to the credit arrangement and synchronising activities for the production, i.e. the execution of expropriation, the exemption of parcels and payment of parcels passing the route. But here's a few words about the activities that were happening, and they're not contained in this report. So, it is important here to say that the Committee for the Control of the Project at Corridor Vc, which was formed by the Council of Ministers, and which was composed of State Minister of Communications and Transport and Federal, then from the ministries of the two Ministers of Finance and Minister of Spatial Planning of the Government of the Federation, somewhere in the second half of January, clearly defined the conclusions resulting from the work of the expert group which last year, so at the 11th month, defined the clear activities that should be done in order to, I would say, the process that was in the stasis phase intensified. And in that sense, after the conclusion of this committee, activities took place in the Federation Government. The Federation government also made a decision in the second month and established and directed the procedure of the draft law supplementing the Law on spatial planning and land use at the Federation level, which was confirmed by both homes. In late March, the Federation government also adopted a Decision on the establishment of 40 proposals for a spatial spatial plan of the area of special plenty important for the Federation of BiH highways on Corridor Vc. Therefore, those decisions were a prerequisite to initiate procedures for issuing the necessary consent, not only of municipal and county administrations, but also of public undertakings, municipal, electricity, telecoms, etc. at lower levels. According to my information from the Federal Highway Directorate, these activities, as regards issuing consent, are under way and that a number of activities have already arrived at the Federal Highway Directorate, and the Federal Highway Directorate will prepare a tender documentation for the opening of an international tender for four shares for which funds have been secured for a total of 65 km. They refer to the Kakanj – Drivuša stock in the length of 16 km, Vlakovo – Tarcin in the length of 19 km, Svilaj section – Odžak 11 km and the shares of Počilj – the southern border of 21 km, i.e. Počitel – Bijača. Here, of course, I would like to say another important fact... that, in fact, for these shares, credit assets are secured from the EBRD, so the European Development Bank and the European Investment Bank on the one hand, on the other hand, the expropriation funds are secured. And the Federation government has agreed to activate and employ these funds, and it refers to the sum of the toll collection for each litre of sold fuel and 10 fening and another source of funds is, Mr. Kupusović will help me, from the toll, so charged for 37 km of highways. In other words, in the Federation government's view, these funds are enough to expropriate parcels through the land through which the highway passes for these four shares. And... at the very end of this additional report, so I believe that after the necessary consent has been collected to complete the issue of building permits, it is, of course, in the opinion of us in this ministry and entity institutions, that, at the end of this year or early next year, the funds could be operational and, in that sense, I believe that until then, an international tender, which must have the character of the international tender, will end. And that, here, at the end of this year or early next year, we could start building highways for these four shares that are the subject of a credit arrangement. I've had so much. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-BA_2010-04-19-0.u7611	Thank you very much, Minister. I'm opening a debate. Mr. Šaraba answered first.
ParlaMint-BA_2010-04-19-0.u7612	Thank you, Mr. Chairman. So... I'm going to make a first comment on this document. I believe that what's written on page 8. And it concerns the commitment to the realization of this project, in my opinion, should be written far more concrete. If there are obligations to be fulfilled during a future period, then it is necessary to place clearly the operators of the activities and deadlines in which such obligations should be fulfilled. Therefore, it is necessary to establish that timely expropriation should be carried out, the establishment of a Directorate for highways as a public undertaking is good. In my opinion, it is not accurate because it is necessary to put on whose obligation it is and who is obliged to fulfill it. In the realization of such an important job, I think that all 41 must know what their obligation is, I think that everyone must know what time period something needs to be fulfilled and who is responsible if it does not happen during that time period. So I understand, Mr. Minister, that you mentioned a part of the stock south of Mostar, so this part of Biach – the vacationer. So does that mean, specifically, I'm asking you, that a problem has been solved on the highway south of Mostar? Thank you.
ParlaMint-BA_2010-04-19-0.u7613	Thank you very much. Božo Ljubić answered.
ParlaMint-BA_2010-04-19-0.u7614	Mr. Chairman, colleagues and fellow envoys, delegates, I want, first of all, to express my satisfaction and to commend this ministry for a very comprehensive report on this project, which is actually one of the most important infrastructure projects BiH has or will have, perhaps, even in the first half of this century. I therefore note this to highlight the importance of this project for BiH's development, not only economically but for its own, I would even say, and full political integration, both internal and integration of BiH, the overall space of Europe, given that Corridor Vc, along the Sava River, is the only pan-European corridor that passes or touches BiH. It is as important for BiH as it is for a large part of Europe from Ukraine to the south of the Adriatic. And economically, of course, BiH is immeasurably important because it is passing through the densest populated part of BiH and is directly gravitating about 2.2 million inhabitants. Therefore, its benefits are far more economical than they are themselves trafficked, not to mention coverage, the scope of public works carried out through this project, on employment, on the funds that will be collected through VAT, etc., especially in this time recession in general, and BiH, of course, is still highlighted by other problems, internal, structural, political and economic. On the other hand, by reading this report and an additional explanation by Mr. Minister, I would also like to highlight this positive co-ordination role of the Ministry which it has achieved in a very complex environment, so two entities asymmetric, county, municipalities etc., etc. We've faced it and there are two problems for me that I'm going to point out here and I'm going to suggest certain, so to speak, proposals that can and have already caused a certain delay in the implementation of this project. In the first row we faced, here in the Federation about a year ago, with one attempt to politicise the project, so there was a significant delay in the implementation of already signed credit agreements in BiH with the EBRD, with the European Investment Bank where BiH, or the Federation, is already paying concretely, so to speak,... it is called penalties or not, for the reserved and unreserved funds without any need, because the closure of the implementation projects would allow us to start construction even before what Mr Vidović said, which is also an optimistic period, so before the end of this year. So,... to put it this way, by pawning everyone here in the Federation, I would firstly like to highlight Mr. Tihić's positive role as president of the SDA, we are today at the threshold of the realization of this project and can only appeal to everyone here to approach the realisation of the agreements already reached and to access 42 construction of this corridor to more locations, from Svilaj to Vukosavlje, from Kaknja to Driveusa, from Tarcin to Sarajevo, from Bijaca to Počil, and to enter these tender procedures. On the other hand, Corridor Vc passes through RS one route from some 45 km, if I remember correctly, and the implementation project is also under way and ends, if it is not already completed. And here again, I would like to highlight one positive role of the government in Banja Luka, which has already installed this route in its spatial plans, in line with the idea project and the faasisibility study. Some equally complex problems have been solved when it comes to cultural and historical monuments for which the route was passing, should have passed. At one point he was collapsing a project with energy projects, so it was also very positively solved. But there is another problem here. That's the problem of financing construction. Or maybe it's not a problem, if it's not a problem, I'll be happy. When I was in Brussels two years ago, then as a minister, and together with the Ministry of Finance, I presented to the World Bank, the EBRD and the European Investment Bank this project, sponsored by the European Commission, asked me how you plan to build a corridor. I said on the principle of private-public partnership, with what's already been done in the Budget of the Federation and what we're going to build out of the loan and the private part of the concession. We already had a plan for the Federation at the time that we would ask the EBRD for loans and the European Investment Bank for the part covering the state, and they asked me what happened to the part that goes through RS. I said, according to my information, the truth is off the record, it's planned to be done on the basis of a concession model and there are already agreements with a single company, or they were somewhere on the threshold to make a deal with Strabag at that time. Then they asked me how the contract came about. Of course, I didn't have all the reliable information at the time, but they said, according to their information, that it was incompetent, so to speak, access and that they can certainly guarantee that no company that has received a tender, or contract to build, no tender, contract that builds will be difficult to obtain loans from any bank. But why am I saying this? I am speaking because this route..., it knows better Mr. Kupusović and Mr. Vidović, and I seem to remember, was according to the faasisability study in priority shares and should be built in 2012 or at the latest 2014. Corridor Vc isn't complete without that route. I would like these conclusions... which the Ministry has proposed as obligations to enter as well so that the Government of the Republic of Slovenia is asked to determine the model of construction, which is more so when I was in Brussels of this same bank, the EBRD and the European Investment Bank, expressed their willingness to credit in the same way and the route through RS as they credited construction 65 km in the Federation. And, of course, I then expressed my readiness on behalf of the state ministry to assist the RS entity in the same way as we have assisted the Federation entity. Because I'm afraid that by waiting longer for the construction model and the security of the funds, we'd be in a position to make sure that one important part of this route isn't finished. But I will remind you that this Corridor Vc is not just our internal thing, it is the obligation of BiH to the European process of BiH and I will remind you of the letter, which is mentioned here in this report, but Mr Vidović did not bring it out here, the President of Hungary and the Prime Minister of the Republic of Croatia who wrote to the European Commission asking that BiH be helped to build Corridor Vc, 336 km through BiH, precisely because it is their interest because the corridor is not without it. And finally one of my initiatives. So, if this debate of mine will not be enough to formally launch the initiative, I will launch it at the next House session, which is what 43 I said already at a Council of Ministers meeting about a year and a half ago: this moment of design and construction of Corridor Vc should be used to make the other projects that are complementary to this route complete. First of all, I mean the gas pipeline that would lead from Ploč to the Sava River, which would connect the plates with the southern during which after the meeting Putin – Kosor, it seems to me, will pass through Croatia, so that what is now happening in Croatia does not happen. The other day, driving from Split Dalmatino to Zagreb, I see machines parallel to the highway where the pipeline is built. What was needed now? There's a new route breaking through to get the machines into place, doing double work, etc., instead of doing it when that highway was being built. So, in order for us not to get into a situation here in BiH if we're going to re-trace the highway again tomorrow, there's a new road for the machines that are going to set up this pipeline, and he certainly needs to connect that one vertical, because we don't forget - all of southern Herzegovina is completely gasless and significant parts of the north. Therefore, I think this House should send this initiative to the Council of Ministers, the competent ministry, I think it is the Ministry of Foreign Trade and Economic Relations that cares about energy policy, because without that vertical, I don't think BiH's energy connection would be complete. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-BA_2010-04-19-0.u7615	/no microphone turned on/
ParlaMint-BA_2010-04-19-0.u7616	A lovely greeting to colleagues and colleagues and all those who follow our work today. I feel the need to say a few words even though I'm well-frozen, even under a mild temperature. You see, it's not a disputed fact that it's been very much, we've done a lot of work, but it's the general impression of every citizen in this country that very little has happened and that very few miles of highways have been made in this country. I will discuss something about this report because, consulting others whose profession, therefore, has made one detailed analysis of this material and at the same time reached one conclusion that here the debate at the BiH Parliamentary Assembly has not ended, this House has not yet adopted this report, nor the conclusions that follow this report, and at the federal level, in the federal government and in the Federation Parliament, some steps have already been taken as if Parliament had approved this report. Compared to this analysis, which has been made and available other available information regarding this Autoroad project on Corridor Vc, it can be concluded that the space in the Federation really wants to be integrated in traffic, which is very good, but it does not seem to me at the same rate at all the shares we have as such envisaged. You see, the Decision adopting the spatial base of the spatial plan of the area of specific characteristics of importance for the Federation on the Corridor Vc highway for this period,... in the 2008-2028 report, defined the position of highway route on the entire corridor except, underlining, for the area of Blagaj and Poc, and for that definition of that position the route is given a period of six months. I saw this from the proposal for a decision that the Federation Prime Minister referred to the Federation Parliament and adopted both homes. Furthermore, given that the position travels around these two places, the Guest and Blagaj, is not known, then 44 this means that the route of the highway on Corridor Vc in the zone of Mostar and south of it does not exist at this time, because we do not know where the bridge is over Neretva near the Holiday. All of what I just said, in a completely different way, in a different virtual rhetoric, is, however, placed in this report that we are discussing today. Next, right now in the Federation, we have an absurd situation, and I'd like someone to tell me, I'm going to say one fact, that I'm wrong. What's absurd? It is absurd that we have two decisions from the Federation Parliament that treat the same space in the Mostar area and are in collegiate with the two decisions. According to one decision, we have a designated highway area in Corridor Vc in the area of special features of significance for the Federation, and this decision is published in the Official Journal of the Federation 56 out of 8. Nine. In 2008. And according to the second decision on the area around the city of Mostar, we do not have the spatial basis of the Space Plan for the area of special feature of importance for the Federation of Highways Corridor Vc. So, the existing documentation of the Autoway project at Corridor Vc has been working for six years, as far as I have information, and now it is predicted that everything will be resolved that, on a proposal from the Federal Government, it has been determined by its decision – in six months. It's kind of inconclusive. And it is interesting to stress that the question of the highway position on Corridor Vc has been troubled through Hercegov's past two years, although the position of the route was known six years ago, I said. In the area of the city of Mostar, the position of the highway is a concept on the trail of the Spacious Plan of BiH, which is in force, you know what, 29 years. That plan was adopted in 1981. Despite the above, if there have been or have been any professional or scientificly justified demands or demands from the population of Blagaj and Pitior for changing the route, then it was quite logical that this microlocation should be trained in hand and that the profession would solve this issue and that we would then go at the same time into solving, so all of these issues, in which way we were warned by every financial house following the financing of Corridor Vc through BiH. I'm only talking about the Federation now. So, nothing seemed to justify the requirements in a professional and professional way, although I have information that, regarding the location of the bridge over Neretva in Poštelje, which should therefore be bound by direction towards Vijača, worked by expert teams and kicked out 12 or 14, do not tie me to the word, various variants, because the measurements were made, so the very complex processes, which I have seen, examines the ground where this route should go. So, something was done and some working groups were formed, it also formed a resolution ministry run by Minister Rudo Vidović, and, as Mr Vidović's resolution ministry, the people in the Federation, formed a working group but could not agree. Now, the question is when are they really going to agree on some of these problematic points related to Mostar, to Blagaj, to the bridge over Neretva near the Holidays. This fact that I am now talking about is contained in the accompanying material on page 3 of point 3 and it is very interesting that the creation of a spatial plan of the area of special features of importance for the Federation of BiH highway of this corridor is uncertain. The creation of a Space Plan in the Federation is also uncertain, according to the material. If that's the case, then it's personal concern to me that we would also accept the suggestions for conclusions that follow this material. Activities on the implementation of the project in the Federation, I quote, 'the creation of a spatial plan of the field of special features for the Federation is uncertain' and can be very easily questioned, because of this uncertainty, can be brought about by our political dances, which we know to play 45 phenomenal whenever we want to, so it can be very easy to question the realization of the entire project of building the Corridor Vc highway in the Federation of BiH. On the basis of the EBRD contract, it is already due to the unpreparedness of the projects, especially unprepared spatial planning documents, already said by someone from the predecessors, paid and very high funds, somewhere less than 2 million marks and is expecting us to soon pay a new cash amount on the same basis because of unused funds. And now it would be convenient to hear the answer to the question: how many more of these commissions will we (as it is called, Dr Ivanić is looking at me, I guess it's a professional name)... for unused appropriations in this country and does anyone have that information in relation to all the possible dances I've been talking about, which are very, very certain, and here is the political game already played? I think I've opened your eyes enough. In the report on the activities of the Autoway project on Corridor Vc and Plan of the following activities, key and real problems... as if they were placed, as our people usually like to say, under some carpet and measures and activities proposed by the Ministry of Communication and Transport are insufficient and are not based on the results of the multiannual work of experts. I examined them, I saw them, it was done by very reference companies and very respected experts..., some of them were even 50 years old, they were still alive and healthy, teachers were at various universities, one of them was Professor Pržulj from Slovenia who was involved in our needs for expertise of certain issues in relation to this matter. In order not to get into one situation, at least we people who are looking at the complete route through all of Herzegovina, throughout Bosnia and Herzegovina, so here's what goes through the Federation and through RS, so in this direction to make a statement: so that we don't knock on why nothing is going on in Herzegovina and around Herzegovina, I, for all of this, propose that the House of Peoples of the Parliamentary Assembly today accept this report that we are discussing today but that the conclusions that I am about to read to you. That's one conclusion that has four points. I think that he is a little more moderate, that he has in mind and another fact which was spoken of by the esteemed Minister Vidović, which is a session of the Committee on the Control of the Implementation of the Corridor Vc project from 27 January of this year, where from that meeting, he mentioned the minister who was already here, all of which is true, so he sent the conclusions and mandated the Government of the Federation to return the Decision on the acceptance of the spatial basis of the spatial plan of a special feature of the area of importance for the Federation of Highways at the Corridor of Vc Ministry, therefore to yours, Mr Minister, and in accordance with the conclusions of the expert group meeting since 4.11.2009, especially when it comes to the location of the bridge near the town and the route of Blagaj. So I suggest we also accept this report but accept this conclusion that I will read to you now. I've got it, and I can share it if something's unclear, it's very clear. Under '1. To give support to the Council of Ministers and the Ministry of Communications and Transport to continue their activities in developing the necessary project documentation and thus create an accelerated highway construction on Corridor Vc through BiH. 46 2. The Council of Ministers, Ministry of Communications and Transport and the Committee for the Monitoring of the Implementation of the Corridor Vc project is tasked with resolving the position of disputed parts of the route in cooperation with the competent authorities in the Federation of BiH in order to issue consent and permission to build priority shares, as well as the Zvirovići-Pocitel section on the route of the Corridor Vc highway. 3. It is up to the Ministry of Communications and Transport to provide for further activities to provide professional assistance in order to adopt the spatial basis of the Spatial Plan of Areas of Specific Characteristics for the Federation of BiH highways on Corridor Vc for the period from 2008 to 2028 for the entire route of highway at Corridor Vc that passes through the Federation of BiH. There will be no shares, no space isolated in traffic, but at the same time will work throughout the Federation. 4. The Council of Ministers and the Ministry of Communications and Transport is hereby tasked with continuing negotiations with the competent authorities of the Federation of BiH on the conclusion of credit agreements with international financial institutions for the purposes of Corridor Vc." Thank you very much for your attention.
ParlaMint-BA_2010-04-19-0.u7617	/no microphone turned on/
ParlaMint-BA_2010-04-19-0.u7618	I don't know how we're going to treat this... is it, like, a replica or as support for conclusions because new conclusions have come to light, so here's no answer from the debaters. I must say, therefore, that these arguments made by Mr Filipović stand to a considerable extent. The truth is, therefore, that the Federation Parliament, its two homes, adopted on its session course, was then I think seven months 2008, i.e. the special features on the Corridor Vc route passing through the Federation. But the truth is what I said, so at one point there was a politicisation of that project and we faced a blockade and, of course, after that, the Ministry went into the process of looking for a solution. So what I'm saying is that the entire southern route is not in the same position. The route south of Mostar or better to say Mostar north (the border of Croatia) is the subject of the Implementing Project but the subject of the loan is only the part that goes from Bijače to Počilac, and it is of course important to resolve immediately the Počitelj, because according to Parliament's decision of the Federation, which is quoted here, it seems to me that it was published in the Official Journal in 2008, it is possible to change the course, but within a range of about 500 m if geo-search works or dictation of space, so to say, the plan dictates, but not in a larger way. To be honest, I don't expect anything more important to change than that 500 meters, but of course I leave it to this ministry, to the Council of Ministers and others. I have carefully tried to listen, so these conclusions Mr Filipović made, frankly, have not been consulted about them, but I could support them. I think they give, to put it this way, an additional task to the Federation authorities to adopt appropriate documents, but also if we want to fulfill our role as a state home, the House of the Peoples of BiH, then of course we must include in the conclusions, in an appropriate way, this route that goes through RS. But here, I'm 47, and I'm leaving this department to suggest, when it suggested these conclusions, a conclusion on that, if it considers it necessary.
ParlaMint-BA_2010-04-19-0.u7619	Thank you very much. Mr. Ilija Filipović wants something else.
ParlaMint-BA_2010-04-19-0.u7620	Thank you very much. I'm sorry, but I have one more fact to say. It will not change the views of those who think differently from the location of the bridge over Neretva in Poštelj. But that bridge limits further work on making the Main Project connected to the link, the main point of the link at the Bijač node. We all know that, so it's nothing controversial, but it would be good to know his place. I'll be free to tell you now, I mentioned one respected professor of Pržulj, just three sentences to read what a profession, a man who is a 50-year-old designer, who has a very, very many papers behind him, poetically said it, would be nice to hear how, in which way a man looks at an object and a city and how one city and one bridge should be viewed and saw as an architectural work. He says: 'An unforgivable injustice would be done to the historic town of Pocitel if it were isolated from the views and presence of travellers and tourists, excluded from active life and condemned to die.' He calls it dying if that bridge wasn't seen from the Restor. 'Examples of connecting old historical cities and objects on public roads illustrate it best,' he says, 'in Istanbul, in Genoa, in Venice, Roman cities and facilities in the Provenza. The customer must not become exclusively an oasis of individuals but well for the benefit of all citizens. For 50 years I have watched, studied and built bridges and have not yet seen or experienced in the encounter with well-intentioned people that some bridge or viaduct has reduced the value of the natural space of the neighbouring settlement or town'. Only some examples are listed in this quote and there are others as 'the historical core of Bratislava, London, Vienna, Prague, etc. There is no expert evidence that the bridge below the Guest will destroy and destroy the Guest." It is the end of the quote by the esteemed professor from Slovenia, Professor Milenko Pržulj. And I have one more piece of information, I'd like to hear from the minister whether it's true, so the waist, the absolute waist, the experts who worked, who were properly paid for a particular job, are opposed to moving that bridge beyond 500 meters. If that's true, then we're here somewhere if we're going to respect the profession, if we're not going to take some other arguments that will lead us in another direction. I'm sorry about this depression, but I know it's a problem of the south route and it's been embossed by crossing through Neretva. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-BA_2010-04-19-0.u7621	Is anyone else answering for word? Ivo Miro Jović. Here you go. 48 Ivo Miro
ParlaMint-BA_2010-04-19-0.u7622	Thank you very much. I would like to say very briefly that this report that we have, and in a special way complemented by Mr Filipović, should not be a problem today for all of us to finally support the realisation of the approximation of the communication BiH to Europe. And I would like to ask the minister: 'On page 8, we have that on September 25th 2009, it has practically become an operational loan with the EBRD. When do they start spending 180m euros? When is it around to expect?'
ParlaMint-BA_2010-04-19-0.u7623	Is anyone else answering for word? Branko Zrno, right? Branko, come in.
ParlaMint-BA_2010-04-19-0.u7624	I'm sorry, I was just going to suggest, because here, let's not forget, we have one initiative.
ParlaMint-BA_2010-04-19-0.u7625	I know.
ParlaMint-BA_2010-04-19-0.u7626	Which should follow, of course we know why, for saving money. So, we can make clear on this report with the proposed conclusions and especially on the initiative of counterpart Jukić. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-BA_2010-04-19-0.u7627	If there's no one here, I'd like to take your word for it. I would like to say first of all that I support this report on the activities of the Autopute project on Corridor Vc and the Plan for the upcoming activities of the Ministry of Communications and Transport of BiH. I know that there are always certain problems on one of these projects that arise and have to be solved. Some of these problems are partly solved, others are not solved. I think there's a will to resolve and this question is headed for the part of Corridor Vc in the area of Blagaj, the area of the Restors. But I'm not sure how many of these conclusions we could adopt right now. As much as I could track, you know, if the House of People can borrow, I don't know you, the Council of Ministers, the Federation, some ministries about solving some specific issues, I don't know if it's 500 meters up, 1,000 meters, or if it's still a matter of certain institutions, so to speak, certainly experts dealing with these issues. Well, I'm afraid now with some concrete notes, I haven't been able to follow up to 49 at the time of Mr Filipović's presentation, and I haven't been made particularly controversial, but I'm afraid they don't have any jurisdiction over other institutions, that the House of Peoples can't commit these institutions, you know. It's kind of controversial to me. We also have this initiative that Mr Božo Ljubić also submitted in the context of this debate that we should also have an attitude from the RS so that this initiative, these writings, perhaps it would be best not to conclude this issue, this point of the agenda today but to return to this commission to review these issues and these initiatives and adopt it at one of the next sessions. Here, it's hard for me right now to decide whether or not I accept conclusions. I believe that other delegates are probably not ready at this point to make such a decadent statement, here, and about this initiative regarding the RS, so maybe we should leave it, go back to this committee and open up and discuss it again at the next session of the House of Peoples. Thank you. Perhaps we should ask the minister once more to comment or leave it behind. If you agree to return to this committee and be back in the next session. Who Is For? Is there anyone “against ”? "Contained"? There isn't. I find that we have adopted this proposal as a conclusion. Moving to the 28th point of the agenda: Ad. 28. Report on the work of the parliamentary military commissioner for the period October – December (the parliamentary military commissioner material) You have received the Work Report as well as the opinion of the Joint Commission for Defence and Security of BiH. The Commission has adopted the Work Report and is proposing to the House its adoption. The House of Representatives adopted the Work Report. I give my word to the chairman of the Joint Commission, Branko Zrn.
ParlaMint-BA_2010-04-19-0.u7629	Thank you, Mr. Chairman. I mean, there's not much to say here. It is a unanimous acceptance of this report on the appropriate committee. I must stress, although no act by the BiH Parliamentary Assembly has required our commissioner to submit the report, he did so himself. It's about a quarterly report on his work. I thank him. Here, now again on behalf of the Joint Commission, I urge you to make a positive statement on this report. 50
ParlaMint-BA_2010-04-19-0.u7630	Thank you very much. I'm opening a debate. Is anyone answering their word? If no one calls, if there's nothing new to say, I'll put it to the vote. Who is “for ” this account? As far as I can tell, unanimously. No Niko “against, ” no one“ abstention. ” Moving to the 29th point of the agenda: Ad. 29. Report on the work of the Citizens' Appeals Committee on the work of police officers in BiH police bodies for the period September - December 2009 You have received a report on the work as well as the opinion of the Joint Defence and Security Commission. The Commission adopted the Work Report. He's proposing to the House his adoption. The House of Representatives adopted the Work Report. I give my word again to the chairman of the Joint Commission, Branko Zrn. Here you go.
ParlaMint-BA_2010-04-19-0.u7632	Everything I said earlier, I repeat, this is all about the Committee of Appeals of the Citizens. It was all the same.
ParlaMint-BA_2010-04-19-0.u7633	Thank you very much. I'm opening a debate. If no one answers the word, who's in? I find that we have adopted a report on the work of the Committee of Appeals of citizens on the work of police officers. And the 30th, last item of the 44th session, Ad. 30. Proposal for measures to improve business conditions in BiH's agricultural production and food industry You have received the opinion of the Commission for Foreign and Trade Policy, Customs, Transport and Communications. The Commission is proposing to the House adoption of the proposal for measures to improve the conditions of 51 agricultural production and food industries, as well as the adoption of conclusions. The House of Representatives adopted a proposal for measures to improve the conditions for business in BiH's agricultural production and food industry with a conclusion. I give my word to the Chairman of the Commission, Alma Čolo.
ParlaMint-BA_2010-04-19-0.u7635	She's gone, she's out.
ParlaMint-BA_2010-04-19-0.u7636	Here's her report. I'm opening a debate. Is anyone answering their word? Adem Ibrahimpašić. Here you go.
ParlaMint-BA_2010-04-19-0.u7637	Thank you, Chairman. I just want... So this was done on 30 November 2009. I don't know if we're adopting this or whether this is the adoption of the Council of Ministers. But, well, if we adopt this now is March 19th, so it's been about four months. And I will only insist here (so, in the first proposal, it is time for him to do it in February 2010, the second deadline in February 2010, the third very interesting) so to determine whether producers are cheating on us at the border, so whether or not... the goods and then the smaller VAT is accounted for. There was a continuous deadline, and I'm saying they're cheating on us, because here I have invoices that show that some goods are cheaper than our goods, without VAT, or, say, taxes for 3 stamps, and in retail they're more expensive for 2 stamps. Therefore, the fourth period of December 2009, the fourth measure, the fifth measure, the fifth measure, on January 2010, the sixth measure, on April 2010, the seventh measure 31st. 12. 2009, 8th measure 31. 12. In 2009, March 9, 2010, here's why I'm not making it up to you, not to read it to you. Only three measures were last, they said it was a continuous December 2010 and 25 measures of the 2012 deadline. What am I trying to tell you? If we didn't have in this ministry capacity... They're not bad, they're not out of their minds, they're measures that should put out the fire in these two industries, but people don't have the capacity, they've now made some group out there, I think they're... for the agricultural and food industry. So, this ministry isn't capacitated, there's no people, there's no knowers for this. I don't think this has anything to do with it. Thank you for your effort. And you did it by force because the House of Representatives forced you to do it. I'm afraid there's nothing out of this, and there are no bad measures to be taken. And if we don't capitulate that ministry, or we don't build a agriculture ministry, no matter how angry anyone gets, one term should be, like in Belgium, the Minister of the Republic of Slovenia of Agriculture should be him and the Minister of State or the other time the one from the Federation, etc. - We won't be able to fight with all these possible scams that our neighbors have made, and especially the neighbors have to say, they're throwing. We all know that, and all those measures are made up of, mostly, that they don't cheat on us so that we can produce and sell something. This is how we destroy the basis for survival because there's no one here to take care of this at the state level. 52
ParlaMint-BA_2010-04-19-0.u7638	Thank you very much. Mr. Mladen Ivanić answered. Here you go, Mr. Ivanić.
ParlaMint-BA_2010-04-19-0.u7639	If I understand correctly, this has already been adopted. And these are the measures
ParlaMint-BA_2010-04-19-0.u7640	I think it's adopted, we have an excuse.
ParlaMint-BA_2010-04-19-0.u7641	which the Council of Ministers has brought, and this is only for us to know. Therefore, I have no intention of having a discussion about this, because these measures will be nothing. This was just a little run away at one point, one pressure due to a bad result,
ParlaMint-BA_2010-04-19-0.u7642	And now it's bad and worse.
ParlaMint-BA_2010-04-19-0.u7643	And of these measures there will be nothing. The measures will only take place when subsidies are increased. And that's the only way we can compete with production in the environment, because high subsidies from Croatia and Serbia, and not speak to the EU in three years when it falls, in accordance with the Stabilisation and Association Agreement, customs on zero, will only solve us. But what we could do, and we can't do: why when our people come into a position to export, they are strictly subject to phytosanitary, inspection controls, after seven days, for 15 days their trucks are standing there in neighboring countries, and we get it in without a problem and no one... works. If they can hold our truck for 15 days with some products, why can't we keep theirs?
ParlaMint-BA_2010-04-19-0.u7644	/microphone is not enabled/
ParlaMint-BA_2010-04-19-0.u7645	That's what we can do, and it's not a matter of jurisdiction or anything but of will and business. But that's not going to happen, and that's why they're going to have cheap imports, cheap goods and a lot of our people who won't have anything to work with. And the real solution to this problem is the subsidy, the subsidy that entities, states, and they don't have to, they can work, they have the means, but they don't work. So here's one piece of information, we've heard what the problems are -- none of this is going to happen. 53
ParlaMint-BA_2010-04-19-0.u7646	Thank you very much. Mr. Slobodan Šaraba. Here you go. Please, I apologize, Mr. Šarab. Here's a replica of Adem Ibrahimpašić, I didn't see.
ParlaMint-BA_2010-04-19-0.u7647	Here, I wouldn't agree that subsidy is the only thing. Our... subsidies could be much bigger than in Croatia and Serbia, so we can get in the parity. And here, please, why doesn't someone who deals with this business, here I say to the Directorate for indirect taxation, check the credibility of the prices of the goods being imported? Why are these prices allowed to be underestimated and then the salaries, the state's pay lower VAT, make us uncompetitive on our own market. There, and that's one measure that can be written here, and it's not the only measure. And one more thing, these measures are not the essence of it. And the bottom line is how to make our manufacturer competitive except for the subsidy. We have the smallest property in the area. We need to open up the property pooling process. We need to find some policy that I don't know anymore, the manufacturer, I don't sow three or five acres than to sow or store cows at 200 acres, and that's not impossible, and it's not out of my mind, nobody's dealing with it.
ParlaMint-BA_2010-04-19-0.u7648	Okay, thank you. Slobodan Šaraba, please, and Ivo Miro Jović.
ParlaMint-BA_2010-04-19-0.u7649	Mr. Chairman, distinguished colleagues, therefore, I disagree that this is information. So the point in the agenda is set up like we're adopting it. So here is not information under the programme of measures and so, but rather the proposal for measures. So it's set up, although not precisely,...in a direction like we're adopting it. If that is true, then I don't know why this agenda item didn't appear in January or December when it was supposed to appear if it came to Parliament on 30 November and adopted. So we're in a really, really specific situation here. It would be logical for us today to discuss the effects of the measures adopted in December, if they were actually adopted. And like this, six months later, we get this programme of measures when many of these measures were to be implemented and to give results, we get one information in a way, or we get one item of the agenda, inaccurately set up in a way that we don't know here today whether we're really adopting it or whether it's information.
ParlaMint-BA_2010-04-19-0.u7650	Thank you very much. Mr Ivo Miro Jović. Here you go. 54 Ivo Miro
ParlaMint-BA_2010-04-19-0.u7651	: I thought that this point would take a shorter, I think, shorter time, understanding that this is one of the most important issues and that really these measures that are proposed inside are exactly in that relationship that we have heard here what this should do. And so my proposal would be to agree with the headline that we are receiving the proposed measures in order to get to know further, I think we should commend the person who made these measures and made it up. They'll be useful to this country if they're respected, and there's a lot of homework in there. So I would suggest to my colleagues that we don't waste our strength but to define to support this material that we've received.
ParlaMint-BA_2010-04-19-0.u7652	Thank you very much. Alma Čolo, come in.
ParlaMint-BA_2010-04-19-0.u7653	Chairman, I apologize. I had to get out at first. You've received this report. ... I don't know if anyone said that this proposal for a measure to improve the conditions of business in agricultural production made up the Ministry at our request. So at the request of both the House of Peoples and the House of Representatives, you know that. And they're suggesting here, they're saying in November they made it up, it was standing in the House of Representatives, they were in a dilemma whether at all they were going to go to the House and then they adopted this in the House and then it... it opened the way for us to consider our commission and propose adoption to the House. We suggested that it be adopted, but that these deadlines be corrected. We should now move them all mostly by three months, because the first deadline was February 2010.
ParlaMint-BA_2010-04-19-0.u7654	It seems December 2009 to me.
ParlaMint-BA_2010-04-19-0.u7655	December 2009. Then all deadlines should be moved, to be recommended to this ministry to move the deadlines. That's what we suggested in our report, so that's what I'm talking about. [[Common discussion]]
ParlaMint-BA_2010-04-19-0.u7656	Well, you see, obviously it was here... Here's Mrs. Čolo said that we adopted here a conclusion and tasked the Council of Ministers to develop measures to improve the situation in agriculture within 60 days, especially measures to increase the coverage of imports by exporting agricultural products. And they did these measures, and that was January 8, 2010. There seemed to be a dilemma about whether it should be at home at all, or whether it should be shared with the MPs just to take 55 into account. And then at one point, the House of Representatives put it on the agenda and adopted it on March 23rd. And we, on the principle of automation, put what passes here on the agenda. Maybe it's more right if we let this know, simply, not adopt. Because based on our decision, they don't work, they work without our decision. So we'd better adopt what our commission has proposed and not run anymore... Who Is For? Is there anyone “against ”? With two votes "against" and one "abstained", I realize we also adopted this report and this conclusion by our commission, too. This is how the 44th session of the House of Peoples ended. The seat is closed at 3:20 p.m.
