ParlaMint-BA_2010-01-21-0.u6910	Ladies and gentlemen, honored colleagues and fellow delegates, present representatives of the Council of Ministers and the international community, respected media representatives, I warmly welcome you and open the 42nd session of the House of Peoples of the Parliamentary Assembly of Bosnia and Herzegovina. At today's session there are all 15 delegates present. For the 42nd session, I suggest the next
ParlaMint-BA_2010-01-21-0.u6913	Dear colleagues, respected members of the Council of Ministers, other guests, I have a proposal to actually ask our colleague Šarab to withdraw the laws under points 9, 10 and 11 from the agenda of today's session. The explanation for this is in the next one. The BiH Constitutional Court Act, a debate on it at the House of Representatives, is currently taking place today with the negative opinion of the committee in charge. Point 10. Proposal for a law supplementing the Law on State Service in BiH institutions was rejected at the House of Representatives at the 63rd session; since 4.11. The constitutional committee of the House of Nations gave a positive opinion. And the draft law supplementing the Council of Ministers' Law was also rejected at the 63rd session of the House of Representatives on 4.11. and we received a notice for both. Since the delegate may be an authorised promoter, we have never had such dualism that both MPs in the House of Representatives and delegates in the House of Peoples propose the same law – and what has happened now? We have a problem that these laws that have fallen, practically the House of Peoples should not even consider them; and those laws that the MP proposes pass in the House of Representatives, come to us as a proposal from the House of Representatives. So, in order not to discuss this, I suggest that my colleague Šarab withdraw these laws, especially these laws that have fallen. In that sense, there's no point in repeating the story of the House of Peoples, because something like this hasn't happened to us yet. Also, under Article 99(2), the House of Representatives is obliged to inform us and they have done so. So, all procedural forms are fulfilled so that these laws, a colleague of Šarab, would withdraw from today's agenda if it were possible in any way not to violate the integrity of this home by discussing the laws that had already fallen in the House of Representatives. Thank you. 3
ParlaMint-BA_2010-01-21-0.u6914	Mr. Slobodan Šaraba. Here you go.
ParlaMint-BA_2010-01-21-0.u6915	Thank you, Mr. Chairman. Dear colleagues, respected members of the Council of Ministers, esteemed guests, I accept the proposal made by Mrs. Majkić today in the expectation that today these laws, which are under discussion at the House of Representatives, will receive support, therefore, in the expectation that these laws will be held here at the House of Peoples at the next session. So I wanted to suggest one thing, and it concerns inclusion in the agenda of today's session of the new agenda, which is: "A consideration of the conclusion of the Joint Commission on Human Rights, the rights of the child, youth and immigration." I sent that memo to Kolegijum 15. 1. to comply with Article 58. The Rules of Procedure of the House of the Peoples of the Parliamentary Assembly shall include a point on the agenda which reads: 'The Parliamentary Assembly of BiH shall be asked to launch an initiative to review all decisions of the High Representative which have been removed from certain persons or that the High Representative shall make a decision to delegate this authorisation to the Ombudsman Institution.' It is clearly stated in the explanation how this whole story moved about this proposed agenda point. Because he's High Representative 6. 9th responds to the College’s letter, and it was conditioned to declare to the home that this was concluded by the Joint College in his letter, which was sent to 2. Six. In 2009. So I'm just asking that the procedure initiated by the Joint Commission be respected and that this point be placed on the agenda of today's session. Thank you.
ParlaMint-BA_2010-01-21-0.u6916	Okay, thank you. Just this before... when it comes to these agenda points, do you withdraw the laws from the procedure?
ParlaMint-BA_2010-01-21-0.u6917	Yeah.
ParlaMint-BA_2010-01-21-0.u6918	From the procedure completely, I'm asking you that.
ParlaMint-BA_2010-01-21-0.u6919	No, I'm just asking them to remove themselves from today's session until the procedure is completed at the House of Representatives for these two laws.
ParlaMint-BA_2010-01-21-0.u6920	The procedure has been completed. 4
ParlaMint-BA_2010-01-21-0.u6921	What?
ParlaMint-BA_2010-01-21-0.u6922	The two laws are over, and we must have a final decision on each proposal. If you withdraw then the law is still alive, it still stands in some procedure. And we need to have a final decision, and today we can pull it out of the process and out of the agenda. Here's Mrs. Majkić wanted something.
ParlaMint-BA_2010-01-21-0.u6923	Comrade Šaraba, I don't think there's any need to maintain the two laws that fell in the House of Representatives. Their procedure is over. Today, the proposal for a constitutional court law with a negative opinion of the committee in charge will be declared. So it's the fate of that law and it's very specific. In order not to be unnecessary, it is easier to withdraw it than to vote for that law not to get an opinion negatively. So, I think that would be more correct if we had gone into this unnecessaryly, you two colleagues who at the same time let on both homes the same laws.
ParlaMint-BA_2010-01-21-0.u6924	Here you go, Mr. Šarab.
ParlaMint-BA_2010-01-21-0.u6925	Dear lady, me and Mr. Novaković together proposed these laws, then we got a notice that we couldn't be joint promoters, so we showed up separated in one home and another. So what has now appeared as a consequence of the requirement addressed to us that we cannot as proposings appear together. So that's the basic essence. So all I'm saying is I'm taking the laws off today's session, and that's my final decision.
ParlaMint-BA_2010-01-21-0.u6926	Okay. Mr. Ljubić, please.
ParlaMint-BA_2010-01-21-0.u6927	Dear Presidency, colleagues and fellow envoys, we also discussed this at the club. I'm actually taking my personal opinion here and first and foremost. I think that here we all support the motives and goals that were meant to be achieved by these two laws, I'm not talking about the Constitutional Court Bill, I'm talking about the proposals of the State Service Act and the Council of Ministers. However, it is obvious, therefore, that even if they were adopted, they cannot enter into force and I think it would be useless to discuss it today. So, I address first row fellow Šarab, but I think we could, if that's okay with the procedure, adopt the conclusion: To ask the Council of Ministers to propose to Parliament, so both at home, a set of laws whose aim will be to introduce responsibility in the 5th functioning of the Council of Ministers. But here, I will say, it will be necessary to set out that set must contain at least three laws: the Council of Ministers Act, the Law on State Service and the Law on Audit, even, which should also be amended in order to be able to ask Mr. Šaraba for increased responsibility. So, if perhaps Mr. Šaraba can agree to replace it with this conclusion, I think that would be the way out. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-BA_2010-01-21-0.u6928	Okay, here's the guy who's proposing right now and I'm going to propose. If you'd like some more, please.
ParlaMint-BA_2010-01-21-0.u6929	So, Mr. Ljubić has reached his conclusion, I fully agree with him. And in the event of this conclusion, I would withdraw my laws.
ParlaMint-BA_2010-01-21-0.u6930	You see, we are now in the agenda process. Eventually, some other initiatives should be within the specific agenda. Here you go, Mr. Mladen Ivanić.
ParlaMint-BA_2010-01-21-0.u6931	Well, I think it's clear from what's been said that the proposer won't withdraw the law. He suggested today that today not be on the agenda and I suggest that the Kolegijum do so, not ask him to withdraw the laws yet. Will he pull him out after hearing what was at Representative's or not, let's leave it for a while, but not to be in session today, to see if there's any agreement on one such conclusion at the next session, which I'm guessing isn't... _________(?) [[no microphone turned on]] What?
ParlaMint-BA_2010-01-21-0.u6933	It's supposed to be an initiative.
ParlaMint-BA_2010-01-21-0.u6934	Let the initiative be put in place, but it is obvious that today should not be on the agenda, and that the MP will decide whether the law will be active or not. He's right, he can put the same law every other day, no matter how many times he falls, we leave it to him, but today we're not going to discuss it, but we're going to take it off the agenda and he's going to decide what he's going to do later. And even if what Mr. Ljubić said could be interpreted as an initiative and, if so, he himself said he would say immediately afterwards.
ParlaMint-BA_2010-01-21-0.u6935	Here comes Mrs. Majkić again.
ParlaMint-BA_2010-01-21-0.u6936	Laws that fell in the House of Representatives!? _________(?) [[no microphone turned on]] It takes six months for the same law. Well, don't, we have business regulations. So the laws that fell in the House of Representatives can't be active anymore. So, even if we did, let's imagine the situation to bring, that we all vote yes, the law didn't pass because it wasn't adopted in another home. I understand this attitude that he withdraws from today's session of the Constitutional Court Bill, and let's see what fate he has today at the House of Representatives, but these two laws must be withdrawn. There's no other choice. And there's no point in keeping those two laws that have fallen in the House of Representatives alive with us.
ParlaMint-BA_2010-01-21-0.u6938	Well, look, let's get this debate over with. Mr. Slobodan Šaraba has proposed these laws, we have put them on the agenda, he is now withdrawing this, and his right and we realize that points 9, 10 and 11 are no longer on the agenda. Right? So, we're done arguing, when they're going to, if they're going to go, we're going to leave that, about that, then. So now it's not, we have yet, Mr. Šaraba has suggested that this initiative be included in today's session regarding the High Representative's decisions. We discussed it today at the College, we started the debate, we'll continue the session of the College later, so I suggest we leave it for the next session, just before the House of Representatives discussed this, if Mr. Šaraba agrees. Thank you very much. Since we adopted the agenda with these changes, namely the withdrawal of the 9th, 10th and 11th points of the agenda, we move to the 1st point. Ad. 1. Answers to Legislative Questions and New Legislative Questions The answers to the delegate's questions were raised by delegate Zoran Koprivica at the 39th session, delegate Slobodan Šaraba, who was asked at the 38th session and delegate Hazim Rančić on the issue asked at the 39th session. 7 Are Delegates Satisfied by Answers? Mr. Koprivica. Here you go.
ParlaMint-BA_2010-01-21-0.u6940	Thank you, Mr. Chairman. I welcome the present delegates of the House of Nations, the gentleman from the Council of Ministers, the guests, the representatives of the information funds. At the 39th session of this house, I asked the Ministry of Justice: "When will bilateral amendments and additions to the Agreement on mutual enforcement of prison sanctions be signed between BiH and Croatia, and BiH and Serbia, in order to permanently prevent convicts in these three countries of the region from avoiding penalties that have been imposed on them by law?" I received a legal answer to this question from the Justice Ministry, where it is decidently said what the ministry did on this matter, or the Council of Ministers. These procedures are ongoing. I am pleased with the answer and thank the Justice Department for the response.
ParlaMint-BA_2010-01-21-0.u6941	Thank you very much. Delegate of the Slobodan Šaraba. Here you go.
ParlaMint-BA_2010-01-21-0.u6942	So, I'm happy with the answer.
ParlaMint-BA_2010-01-21-0.u6943	Delegate Hazim Rančić.
ParlaMint-BA_2010-01-21-0.u6944	The Honorable Chairman, distinguished colleagues and colleagues, members of the Council of Ministers, respected guests, was my question: 'What are the Council of Ministers and Resort Ministries doing to protect old foreign savings and, of course, persons who have had such savings and non-domestic banks such as the Ljubljanska Banka, Invest Banka Belgrade and other non-domestic banks, because they are obliged under the Law on Old Foreign Savings, then, according to the Constitutional Court and one conclusion of the Council of Ministers?' That's where I put it all exactly. The Council of Ministers has answered me in a way that they repeat all this to me as it has been observed in one previous issue and in these acts, and they do not say exactly what they have done on this issue. The only news is in the last paragraph where I am informed that the Council of Ministers adopted a strategy and the modality of how to resolve old foreign currency savings at the Ljubljanska Banka, Invest Banka Belgrade and other non-domestic banks at the 84th session. 8 Since they do not write exactly what they have done, I am not satisfied with the answer and ask that they deliver to me and all the other delegates a strategy of the modality of how to resolve old foreign exchange savings at the Ljubljanska banka, Invest Banka Belgrade and other non-domestic banks and, with the delivery of these strategies, write exactly what they are and what measures and modals have taken to protect our citizens, and about the old foreign currency savings in non-domestic banks, so I ask that the answer be completed. Thank you.
ParlaMint-BA_2010-01-21-0.u6945	Here, thank you very much. Any new delegate questions? Hazim Rančić.
ParlaMint-BA_2010-01-21-0.u6946	Thank you very much. So my new question concerns and I submit it to the Council of Ministers, the Ministry of Security, the Ministry of Civil Affairs, the SIPA, the Border Police, the Directorate for Direct Taxation, the Foreign Affairs and the Independent Committee. The question is, will all remaining conditions of the Roadmap for visa liberalisation be met in advance of the visit of the European Commission expert committees? Reason: Although in the media in recent days we have heard good news of meeting BiH's remaining requirements from the Roadmap, due to an updated assessment of the implementation of the Roadmap for the visa liberalisation of BiH since 27.11.2009, several more unfulfilled requirements remain. Since the European Commission's expert committees are coming to BiH in the second and third weeks of February 2010, and there is little time left to meet the remaining conditions, please oral response will the remaining conditions be met within the deadline? So I want this little remaining time to be used to meet the remaining conditions. And in this updated evaluation of the implementation of the Roadmap, there are nine groups of these conditions, and these institutions are the ones that I have counted. Of course, there is also a condition here that is obliged to meet the entity parliaments and Parliament of the Brcko District regarding the harmonisation of their criminal laws after, I hope, today we adopt amendments and additions to the Criminal Law. So, I would ask if one of the Council of Ministers or of these institutions is able to answer these questions precisely: Are we going to meet these conditions and before the expert committees arrive? Thank you.
ParlaMint-BA_2010-01-21-0.u6947	Okay, here I would ask the representatives of the Council of Ministers if they were able to come up after asking and other questions give an answer, and now they would give an oral answer. If not, we'll go to the pen. 9 Now I would like to give my word to the delegate, drag Ljubičić.
ParlaMint-BA_2010-01-21-0.u6948	I thank you, Mr. Chairman. Gentlemen of the Kolegijum, colleagues and fellow members of the House, gentlemen of the Council of Ministers, other distinguished guests, I ask my question and direct to the BiH Missing Persons Institute. The Association for the search for captured fighters and missing civilians from Brod reported to the Institute for Missing Persons of BiH tombs with the remains of people from the previous war, located in the town of Koliba and Vrela, the municipality of Brod. Accordingly, I ask myself to answer the following question: 'What is the reason that after 60 days of the arrival of the tombs in the Kolibas, the Municipality of Brod, representatives of the BiH Missing Persons Institute have not exumed the remains of the remains in some tombs on the surface of the same?' Reason: About half a year ago, the same association from Brod reported to the Institute for Missing Persons of BiH the remains of one person in a tomb in Vrela that were unprotected, which were not exumed and were missing in the meantime. In order not to do the same with the remains of the Koliba tomb, I ask this question to the BiH Missing Persons Institute and I expect it to react urgently and exhume the remains of the mentioned tomb. The Association for the search for captured fighters and missing civilians from Brod is still searching for a number of missing persons from the municipality of Brod that disappeared and died in 1992. Representatives of this association assume that the mentioned tomb contains the remains of Serb victims from the previous war and blames Institute director Amor Mašović for ignoring Serbian victims and obstructing the exuming of all graves that could contain Serb victims from the previous war. I beg your answer in writing. Thank you.
ParlaMint-BA_2010-01-21-0.u6949	Okay. Thank you very much. Mr Ivo Miro Jović. Ivo Miro
ParlaMint-BA_2010-01-21-0.u6950	Thank you very much, Mr. President. I welcome you, co-chairs, distinguished colleagues and all present today at this session. Here's a question for the government of the Federation and the Federal Attorney's Office, which refers to military housing. I explained it in writing, and for today, I would just point out that part of the short thing that I'm interested in. 'With what number of military apartments did the Federation have, so from '92 to today? Of that number, how many apartments were assigned from '92 to today? On what basis has the assignment of dwellings been carried out, have these regulations been applied, which I stated in the explanation 10? How many people bought apartments by April 1992 and registered as owners? How many apartments were assigned after 6 December 2000 on this basis? How many outstanding housing items are left, and how many dwellings are available for assignment under the Law on return, award and sale of dwellings?" I would briefly just say in the explanation that there really are things in this problem that are not in line with the law and that, I would say, is a big problem that burdens regulations and laws and areas of housing in the Federation. And it seems to me that a large number of apartments have been allocated outside of those regulations that are from this matter, so it makes me very clear whether, in addition to these regulations, some lex specialis with a legislative relationship, this problem is solved. And I think I'm going to get a good answer in an explanation by whom I've referred the question.
ParlaMint-BA_2010-01-21-0.u6951	Okay, thank you very much. Mr. Slobodan Šaraba.
ParlaMint-BA_2010-01-21-0.u6952	Thank you, Mr. Chairman. My question is very brief, and it says: "What amount of the Council of Ministers plans to help the territory of Herzegovina as well as other areas in BiH that hit catastrophic floods 15 days ago?" The area of BiH, as we know, has been affected by the catastrophic floods that have been most severe in Herzegovina in the areas of the municipalities of Trebinja, Ravna, Capljina and Bileca, which have been hit very badly and suffered very badly. A large number of residents of these areas have even been evicted from their homes without being able to return to their facilities, so I believe that the Council of Ministers should and should, and the seas, and the expectations of people in those areas are to get help and support from a wider community. So, in the end, I finally expect that after Haiti – who should have been helped, I welcome that decision – there is also a need for Hercegovina to help her. Thank you.
ParlaMint-BA_2010-01-21-0.u6953	Okay, thank you very much. Mr. Božo Ljubić.
ParlaMint-BA_2010-01-21-0.u6954	My colleagues and colleagues,
ParlaMint-BA_2010-01-21-0.u6955	Please turn on the microphone. 11
ParlaMint-BA_2010-01-21-0.u6956	So, I propose that 'the House of Nations ask the Council of Ministers to prepare amendments and supplement the Council of Ministers Act, the State Service Act and the Law on the Audit of Institutions and Other Laws, possibly, which it concludes is necessary, with the aim of improving the responsibility of the institutions from the Council of Ministers, through ministries, including responsible persons in ministries and other institutions, in such a way that the status of ministers and deputies, inter alia, binds to the results of the audit, in a way that also gives the Minister greater responsibility and competences... and the replacement of responsible civil servants, including chief secretaries and assistants,... including the amendments to the Law on Audits, in a way that they seek de-decidated views positive or negative, so that they can also practice the responsibility of ministers and deputy and management of state officials.' I apologize, this is doctor's handwriting, so where it was possible to decrypt, I'll help. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-BA_2010-01-21-0.u6957	I guess that's kind of a question, is the Council of Ministers going to do that, too, right?
ParlaMint-BA_2010-01-21-0.u6958	It's a fellow initiative.
ParlaMint-BA_2010-01-21-0.u6959	But I don't know if it can go under this point of initiative.
ParlaMint-BA_2010-01-21-0.u6960	All right, all right.
ParlaMint-BA_2010-01-21-0.u6961	Okay. Mrs. Majkić.
ParlaMint-BA_2010-01-21-0.u6962	I have a little initiative, one question. Therefore, the initiative is addressed to the Professional Service of the House of Peoples and I ask the Secretary of the Joint Service to submit an overview of all the delegates of the House of Nations for the next session of the House of Nations. I've seen that there are a lot of questions that we haven't gotten an answer to, and since we obviously don't have a record of who is and who isn't, and we don't have a mechanism to force those we're telling questions to and answer those questions. Here, this may be the subject of discussion at the next session. So that's one initiative. And the following question is addressed to the Foreign Affairs Service. According to data that could be read recently in the media, 474 foreign citizens have been expelled from BiH in the past 2009. In addition, there is knowledge that there are a large number of foreign citizens who have not yet been discovered, and should be expelled from BiH. The measures to banish foreigners from BiH relate mainly to persons who pose a threat to the security of BiH, to persons who are legally convicted and persons who have crossed the state border illegally. I ask the Director of the Foreign Affairs Service to answer the following question: 'How many foreign citizens are in BiH at this time who have been declared a threat to the security of BiH, which should be expelled and which have not yet been discovered? What kind of origin are your citizens? What crimes led to BiH's security threat? How many foreign citizens are assigned BiH citizenship in the DKP network of BiH? Are the allocations of the citizenship covered by the audit, and how many citizenships have been annulled?" I beg your answer on the written path. Thank you.
ParlaMint-BA_2010-01-21-0.u6963	Thank you very much. Mr. Mladen Ivanić.
ParlaMint-BA_2010-01-21-0.u6964	I would have one question for the indirect taxation administration: 'The information has appeared that the management has retroactively released the payment of VAT from a number of companies operating in free zones. I would ask the management to answer that question: is it true and if it is true which companies, which is also the basis for each individual enterprise for such a decision?’ Because it seems to be a very significant amount of free VAT.
ParlaMint-BA_2010-01-21-0.u6965	Okay, thank you very much. Mr. Ivo Miro Jović again. Ivo Miro
ParlaMint-BA_2010-01-21-0.u6966	: I find it instructive, Mr. President, in any case, to recognize the efforts made to propose these laws, which we had today, but I would like to ask that we give the initiative of a respected colleagueŠarab Ljubić, to support this initiative, to, I would say, strengthen this initiative with the Council of Ministers, if they are colleagues for it. To support this House initiative.
ParlaMint-BA_2010-01-21-0.u6967	Let's see, I'd have to open up a debate about that initiative, right, then. Is there anyone who would like to report on this initiative by Mr. Ljubić? If he doesn't, then we could put it on a plea. 13 Who Is “For ” This Initiative? Is there anyone “against ”? There isn't. "Sustained"? There isn't. I find that Dom adopted this initiative by Mr. Božo Ljubić. We're going to the second item of the agenda: Ad. 2. The adoption of the minutes of the 40th and 41st meetings of the House of Peoples Is anyone answering for a word? Mr. Rančić.
ParlaMint-BA_2010-01-21-0.u6969	/no microphone turned on/
ParlaMint-BA_2010-01-21-0.u6970	It's a microphone!
ParlaMint-BA_2010-01-21-0.u6971	So the point is to get an oral answer right now to this question that I asked and that those who haven't possibly done everything on this matter to take advantage of this time until the expert commissions that are going to control this. The written answer I'm going to get, maybe, I don't know in February or when, Bog knows, after the expert commissions won't have that much power.
ParlaMint-BA_2010-01-21-0.u6972	Okay, thank you very much. I was obliged to ask the present members of the Council of Ministers if anyone was able to now respond orally. As far as I can see, then, here I believe this question will be passed on to those who can give an answer and, above all, who can do something by the time this expert group arrives. We move to item 2 of the agenda - adoption of the minutes of the 40th and 41st session of the House of Peoples. Is anyone answering for a word? We're talking about the 40th session. If no one answers, we can vote. Who Is For? Is there anyone “against ”? There isn't. "Sustained"? There isn't. I understand that we unanimously adopted the 40th session of the House of Peoples. 14 We now vote on the 41st session. Who Is For? Is there anyone “against ”? There isn't. "Sustained"? There isn't. I also find that we have adopted the 41st session. And we move to the third item of the agenda: Ad. 3. The request of the BiH Council of Ministers for consideration of the Proposal for a Law on Amendments to the Law on Classification of Activities in Bosnia and Herzegovina under a shortened procedure, in accordance with Article 121. Rules of Procedure of the House of Peoples In accordance with Article 121. The Rules of Procedure on the request for consideration under the shortened procedure of the House shall be decided after the hearing. The House of Representatives adopted the Council of Ministers' request for the draft law to be considered under a shortened procedure. I give my word to the legislator of this law, if he is present. I'm opening a debate. Is anyone answering their word? Mr. Koprivica, then Šaraba.
ParlaMint-BA_2010-01-21-0.u6974	Thank you, Mr. Chairman. I believe that the Council of Ministers' proposal to consider the Bill on Amendments and Supplements to the Law on Classification of Activities in BiH is fully justified by the shortened procedure, because this is one of the laws that this country urgently needs for the reason that the adoption of this law is related to preparatory activities regarding the census and housing in BiH. I therefore fully accept this proposal and consider it a valid reason for this law to be passed by a reduced procedure and I propose that it be adopted by the House. Thank you.
ParlaMint-BA_2010-01-21-0.u6975	Okay, thank you very much. Mr. Slobodan Šaraba. Here you go.
ParlaMint-BA_2010-01-21-0.u6976	/no microphone turned on/
ParlaMint-BA_2010-01-21-0.u6977	Will you just turn it on? 15
ParlaMint-BA_2010-01-21-0.u6978	...if the promoter is present here to hear the reasons for the adoption of this law by a shortened procedure. I don't understand the reasons. So we're talking about the census, and the law is gone, it's not adopted. So, the reason why this law is proposed is completely unclear to me, so I'd like to hear some broader explanation. Thank you.
ParlaMint-BA_2010-01-21-0.u6979	I offered the promoter, I don't know if he's present, if he wants, he can do it now. And let's see if anyone else picks up? If he doesn't answer if there's any need... There's no proposal. We are voting on whether the proposal for a law will be considered in a shortened procedure, in accordance with Article 121. Rules of Procedure. Who Is For? Is there anyone “against ”? There isn't. "Sustained"? With one voice “abstained, ” it has been adopted that we consider this law in a shortened manner. We're going to the next item on the agenda, that's Ad. 4. Proposal for a Law on Amendments and Supplements to the Criminal Law of Bosnia and Herzegovina (second reading), Proposer: Council of Ministers of BiH This is a second reading. The second reading discusses amendments and votes on the draft law. You've received a report from the Constitutional Legal Commission. The Commission has adopted the draft law with two amendments that have become an integral part of the text of this law. The House of Representatives passed the bill with two identical amendments. I give my word to the president of this neighborhood to Mr. Ivo Miri Jović. Here you go, if you want to, and you think there's something else you need to say. Okay, thank you very much. Now I give my word to the legislator of this law if he wishes and believes he should. You don't have to. Thank you. I'm opening a debate. Who's answering for a word? Mrs. Čolo.
ParlaMint-BA_2010-01-21-0.u6981	Thank you, Chairman. I don't know if the House of Representatives today is considering this law in a second reading or whether it has already been adopted in a second reading. If the House of Representatives passed this law, I do not know if 16 is adopted and this conclusion is passed by law, but I propose the same conclusion in front of the Club of Bosniaks in the House of Nations to be reached at today's session, and this is what it says, I will read it if you have nothing against: 'It is the Council of Ministers of BiH's duty that, without delay, it is also referred to the parliamentary procedure of a legislative solution which, in an unequivocal manner, is sanctioned by any denial, reduction or approval of the crimes of the Holocaust, genocide or other crimes against humanity. The proposal must include the fulfilment of all obligations that BiH has under UN General Assembly Resolution on the negation of the 25th Holocaust. 1. In 2007, the Additional Protocol with the Convention on Cybercrime and Crime of the acts of racist and xenophobic nature committed by computer means, the Convention on the Prevention and Penalty of the Crime of Genocide, and the Convention on the Elimination of all forms of racial discrimination. The proposal also needs to cover the good practice of the democratic countries of the world on this issue as well as the obligations of BiH on all other international legal documents." Thank you.
ParlaMint-BA_2010-01-21-0.u6982	Okay, thank you very much. Who's still answering for this point? Mr. Božo Rajić.
ParlaMint-BA_2010-01-21-0.u6983	Mr. Chairman, good afternoon, everyone, I welcome you all. I'm a little confused right now, at the same time we're talking about amendments to the BiH Penal Code. If the elements of what Mrs. Čolo is talking about are not accepted and we're going with the initiative at the same time, I'm confused, I don't really know how to define myself. And on the same side, neither the constitutional committees nor the other home have accepted the elements that Mrs. Čolo is talking about, therefore, by not entering into the grounds for the introduction of these elements into the law or not, that we are going with the initiative to assign the Council of Ministers to do so again some version in which these criminal acts will be involved. I'd really like someone to explain to me how to behave in this situation, because I'm confused.
ParlaMint-BA_2010-01-21-0.u6984	Okay, thank you very much. It's Mrs. Čolo again.
ParlaMint-BA_2010-01-21-0.u6985	Well, I don't know, I mean, we all know that the adoption of the Criminal Law is the obligation of BiH from the Roadmap to liberalise the visa regime. To establish this crime, meaning to punish for the denial of holocausts, the crimes of genocide and other crimes against humanity, is not necessary at this present stage of amendments to the Criminal Code, and here we are, 17 agreed to compromise. It's the only compromise under which we can accept criminal law without this crime. So there is no crime in the law now to get visa liberalisation, which does not mean that we give up this crime in the BiH Criminal Code, as well as the entity laws and laws of Brcko District, or that we give up this crime in some particular criminal law, because we know that crimes can be prescribed not only by criminal law but also by special laws that regulate certain areas. Thank you.
ParlaMint-BA_2010-01-21-0.u6986	Okay, thank you very much. Mrs. Majkić.
ParlaMint-BA_2010-01-21-0.u6987	Just for real information, so I'm holding in my hand a notice from the House of Representatives informing us that the same two amendments have been adopted by our commission without any conclusion.
ParlaMint-BA_2010-01-21-0.u6988	Here I asked the secretary to check if the House of Representatives was adopted and the conclusion, you know, and bring, since we have two different versions. Alma. Here you go, Mrs. Alma.
ParlaMint-BA_2010-01-21-0.u6989	Please, here on today's session agenda of the House of Representatives under point 18 is the Commission's Report on the Proposal for the conclusion of the SDA Members from the 69th session. So they're pleading today on this conclusion.
ParlaMint-BA_2010-01-21-0.u6990	Today, yeah.
ParlaMint-BA_2010-01-21-0.u6991	The law was passed, that's the conclusion. The law was passed at the 69th session.
ParlaMint-BA_2010-01-21-0.u6992	Mrs. Majkić, you probably want to reject that conclusion and, I mean, I understand your intentions. 18
ParlaMint-BA_2010-01-21-0.u6993	All right, don't make any noise. Take your word for it, and we'll take every one of you. Now we have a proposal for a conclusion. Mr. Drago Ljubičić. Here you go.
ParlaMint-BA_2010-01-21-0.u6994	I thank you, Mr. Chairman. On behalf of the Serbian People's Club, I'm looking for a 10-minute break.
ParlaMint-BA_2010-01-21-0.u6995	Thank you very much. All right, I'll take a break from 10 minutes. [[PAUZA]] Please take your seats, continue the session. The Serb people's delegates asked for a break, and here's the break. If they think they should say something, go ahead. Mr. Drago Ljubičić.
ParlaMint-BA_2010-01-21-0.u6997	I thank you, Mr. Chairman. The reason why we asked for a break is simply to check the allegations about this conclusion that Mrs Alma Čolo commented on. We received information that this conclusion did not receive support, and that was the reason. And let me simply, when I have answered for the discussion, I suggest that we conclude the debate on this law, to plead on one issue and another.
ParlaMint-BA_2010-01-21-0.u6998	Thank you very much. Is anyone else answering for word? If he didn't answer, I'd close the debate and put it to a vote on both the law and this proposal to conclude. First, the law goes with this as accepted by the Commission, with two amendments, i.e. as it has been in the House of Representatives. Who is “for ” this law? Is there anyone “against ”? One “against. ” "Sustained"? There isn't. I find that the proposal for amending and supplementing the Criminal Code was adopted, with one vote "maintained", in the same text as at the House of Representatives. 19 I now propose Mrs. Čolo's conclusion. Who's in favor of this conclusion? Six, right? Six votes are "for". Who Is “against ”? Seven votes "against". "Sustained"? Two votes "abstained". The conclusion didn't get the required majority. Moving to the 5th item of the agenda: Ad. 5. Proposal for a Law amending the Law on State Service in the Institutions of Bosnia and Herzegovina (second reading), Proposer: Council of Ministers The second reading discusses amendments and votes on the bill. You've received a report from the Constitutional Legal Commission. The Commission adopted the draft law in the proposed text. The House of Representatives adopted the bill in the proposed text. I give my word to the chairman of the Commission, Ivo Miri Jović, if he wishes. Ivo Miro
ParlaMint-BA_2010-01-21-0.u7000	Thank you very much. Very briefly, we did not have an amendment to the proposed law on the Constitutional Commission. We accepted it unanimously, as we suggest to Dom.
ParlaMint-BA_2010-01-21-0.u7001	If necessary, I give my word to the legislator of this law. No, thank you. I'm opening a debate. Is anyone answering their word? He's not answering. We're voting on the bill. Who Is For? Is there anyone “against ”? "Sustained"? There isn't. I find that the Law amending the Law on State Service in BiH institutions in the same text as the House of Representatives was unanimously adopted. Moving to point 6. Ad. Six. Proposal for a Law on Amendments and Supplements to the Customs Tariff Act of Bosnia and Herzegovina (first reading), Proposer: Council of Ministers 20 You have received the opinion of the Commission for Foreign and Trade Policy, Customs, Transport and Communications. The Commission has accepted the principles of the draft law and proposes the adoption of the Conclusion. This is the first reading of the bill, article 100. First there is a debate on the necessity and principles on which the proposal is based. The House of Representatives passed the bill in the first reading. I give my word to the Chairman of the Commission, Alma Čolo, if he wishes.
ParlaMint-BA_2010-01-21-0.u7003	Here's a short... The Commission has obtained the Opinion of the Directorate for European Integration, resulting in the proposal for a law in line with Commission Regulation 1214/2007 of 20. Nine. In 2007 and the Interim Trade Agreement, which came into force in July 2008 and, in fact, the law is a reduction of customs rates for certain products, which will allow our importers to lower the prices of repromation and, in fact, make it easier for BiH producers for the products listed in this law.
ParlaMint-BA_2010-01-21-0.u7004	Okay, thank you very much. Now I give my word to the bill promoter, if he's present. Here you go. Minister Zirojević. Please, there'll be a debate later.
ParlaMint-BA_2010-01-21-0.u7005	The Honorable Chairman, the Honorable Presidency, the Honorable delegates, fellow ministers, actually here I am alone. You know that the bill stems from the conclusions of both Houses of the Parliamentary Assembly, which have been entrusted by the Council of Ministers, i.e. the Ministry of Foreign Trade and Economic Relations, to make a bill that would make it easier for our businessmen, especially those export-oriented. We are consistent with the deadlines defined by the conclusions and completed the job and referred the bill to the Management Board of the Direct Taxation Board. You know that everything that implies a correction of the tariffs implies and requires obtaining the opinion of the Management Board. And for who knows which time, what's not supposed to happen happened. The law was very much awaited by the Board of Direct Taxation, and thus by the businessmen. We are in direct contact and in collaboration with the Foreign Chamber of Commerce have contacted economic operators. They delivered their demands, I called it a wish list, about 61st product that were classified in just as many tariff lines as customs tariffs. At the Foreign Trade Ministry College, we discussed the proposed requirements. About half of these demands were considered unrealistic and we did not include them in the draft of the law. Why? Because it was about lowering customs rates for goods of commercial character. All that went and led to the reduction of the rates for goods that are repromaterial, raw materials that will greatly help our businesses we have established and included in the draft law. 21 Mrs. Čolo has indeed said and mentioned that this relief will not only be achieved here by our businessmen. This corrects certain errors that occurred in the negotiations phase with the European Community, when negotiated on the very text of the Interim Agreement, as a trade part of the Stabilisation and Association Agreement. In fact, at the request of a farmer, a mistake has been made. They included in the text of the Interim Agreement a tariff number that did not correspond to the goods they intended to import. It is about domestic pigs intended for breeding, and the tariff number they have designated, signed, (we have this letter in the Ministry of Foreign Trade), refers to wild pigs. And when people started importing that kind of stuff, thinking it was all right, the IRS came in and saw that a mistake was made and they went with a later payment. That's where the problem came from. E, this bill corrects this error in such a way as to grant a 700-ton quota of that type of goods. Unfortunately, there were also irrational demands, I guess in ignorance and lack of knowledge of customs regulations. Namely, at the request of the textile industry undertaking, for goods falling within headings 410711 and 410712, they requested that the customs rate be aligned with the European average, i.e. the European tariff, which means raising the customs rate by 1.5%. So they'd make things difficult for themselves. Of course, if we didn't want to hurt them, we'd turned down that request and it'd remain at the level that it's been up to now. I think these proposed tariff lines are well identified and will again, I repeat, help our businesses in further business. That's it, thank you.
ParlaMint-BA_2010-01-21-0.u7006	Thank you very much, Minister. Mr. Božo Ljubić came forward, did I, as far as I could tell? All right, let's move on.
ParlaMint-BA_2010-01-21-0.u7007	The Honorable Presidency, colleagues and fellow MPs, so I will briefly look back at these amendments and supplement the law at this stage alone. Therefore, although the proposal clarifies that the objective is therefore to adapt to the actual needs of the producer in a way that allows them to import re-competitions in order to increase their competitiveness, I do not think that by retaining customs duties, even if the reduced targets will be fully achieved. I believe that all raw materials and repromated materials that are built into a domestic product, whether it is for export or for domestic use, should be free of customs duties in full. Namely, domestic use products, which contain import repromaries, also substitute the import of these finished products into BiH. Therefore, I propose that the proposed products of Chapter 41, 43, 54, 56, 58, 59 be replaced by a rate of 0. The same goes for chapters 72, 76. I have also noticed in those products for the production of non- BiH cooling devices, only the components are installed, I also propose a zero customs rate and a new customs tariff with a rate of 0, and not 2.2. 22 However, what is still here, in my opinion, I therefore respect this minister's explanation that there have been many more demands, but they have proved unrealistic, but at least I will ask this as a question so that I can then react in a second phase in an appropriate manner. Therefore, the rationale under Roman III states, I quote: 'Addjustment of the tariff rate rate for goods, (revealing) – raw materials used by domestic processors and which are not available at all or not available in sufficient quantities on the BiH market or in the markets of the countries with which BiH has concluded free trade contracts, so they are preferable to obtain these raw materials outside the CEFTA countries and outside EU countries.' So it's a quote from this proposal. Now you see, from "Aluminium" Mostar has come a warning that they import Al-T illegal ingots, heading No: 7601100000 and Silicon... tariff code number: 2804690000 outside EU member states, outside CEFTA by tariff code 5% plus 1% customs registration. Therefore, it is not clear to me why these tariffs are not included in the amendments and additions of the Law, because these products are also used as a re-promaterial, i.e. raw material. So here, instead of 5%, I suggest rate 0 and there's this letter "Aluminium" that explains it. And in the end, I know about the argument so that a complete suspension of customs duties would reduce revenue in the budget and, if there are no other arguments, this one is insufficient for me. Why? In fact, the total elimination of customs duties would certainly encourage production, increase exports and employment, and this would in particular increase consumption and collection of VAT and multiplier those benefits that would eventually be lost by non-gathering customs duties. Of course, so I'm asking this as a question and, of course, if no one can reason with me in these views, then I'm going to respond properly in phase two. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-BA_2010-01-21-0.u7008	Thank you very much. Nice to Ljubičić you. I recorded how they applied, so here.
ParlaMint-BA_2010-01-21-0.u7009	No problem. I thank you, Mr. Chairman. I thank Mr. Minister for his presence and for his explanation when it comes to this law. The proposed amendments and additions to the BiH Customs Tariff Act relate, we have seen, to several chapters and tariff codes. Respecting the reasons and objective of the proposed amendments, and we have seen that, in essence and mainly, they refer to domestic producers, we will support today the principles of this proposed law. I particularly support the position and intention of the Council of Ministers expressed in an explanation, which refers to the following. Let me just read briefly: 'The BiH Council of Ministers, depending on the situation on the domestic market, can change certain of these ratios, and if it is necessary to abolish tariff quotas for certain products as soon as conditions are created that these products can be obtained in BiH. The Council of Ministers of BiH may repeat the fixed quotas at a maximum twice a year according to certain tariff codes." In this way, it wants to stimulate and increase domestic production, because conditions will be created for the positive effects listed in this explanation, which I particularly support and I hope that the Ministry of Resorship and the Minister who has shown 23 so far the will to do so when it comes to domestic producers to maintain a continuity in monitoring, simply, their needs and that they will likely come into contact with this. Thank you.
ParlaMint-BA_2010-01-21-0.u7010	Thank you very much. Mrs. Majkić.
ParlaMint-BA_2010-01-21-0.u7011	It seems to me that since the last term we have been waiting for this law to be passed and here we finally have something that will allow for the protection of domestic production and to increase its competitiveness. And we can really be satisfied. But what I'd like to say is what I'm more pleased about is that the way and the form of the consultations that were made in the making of this law is such that it makes it impossible for us to say anything the other way around. So I watched who all the consultants in this process were and we saw that they were both represented and commercial chambers and manufacturers and all those whom this law touches in a certain way. So, accordingly, I only want to read one sentence from the Ministry of Agriculture, Forestry and Water Management of the Republic of Slovenia which says "this law is a direct contribution to the protection of domestic production, as well as an increase in productivity, and customs rates are in line with the EU nomenclature and are related to those re-romitries that are missing on the BiH market and in its environment". And accordingly, we will uphold the principles of this law.
ParlaMint-BA_2010-01-21-0.u7012	Okay, thank you very much. Mr. Adem Ibrahimpašić.
ParlaMint-BA_2010-01-21-0.u7013	Thank you, Mr. Chairman. I'd just like to remind you. Two years ago, the Foreign Trade and Customs Commission of the House of Representatives, on the one hand, and I, on the other hand, proposed in this House an amendment to the Customs Tariff Act in a way that would eliminate all customs duties on raw materials and repromary in order to help the domestic economy. Then it was possible because we were sovereign, we could bring it so. However, it was rejected because there would be no money in the budget, hold on, though it was a weak argument. Meanwhile, we sign a Stabilisation and Association Agreement. We are no longer sovereign, we are practically part of the European market. And when we voted on this sugar, which you're talking about, to import it without customs, it was a promise, because we asked for as much help as possible and received the promise that within 15 days, it would be a practical proposal to reduce customs and customs rates that are more than the same in the EU. 24 So, we had a situation where our producer who buys re-romantics and raw materials that are not available in the EU must pay a higher customs duty. Let's say, that was true in sugar, because it's from Brazil, it pays more customs than the EU producer pays, and that makes us incompetent to our manufacturer. So, we can't anymore, I'd very much like to vote for what Božo is talking about, but we can't anymore, because he's not going to give us those from the EU that we are now flying out and reducing some of our customs duties for goods outside the EU, and that they're letting it go, because they have tariffs that are the way they are. This is about 33 products that our producers paid more expensively, so the larger customs duties paid on these products when they bought them and they were all out of the EU than the EU producer paid for with this reduction to zero or to 2.5, or I don't know either, we practically order our customs tariff with customs tariff, at least for this part that requires with the EU customs tariff, and there's nothing we can object to. We can't say it now - we won't, now we're going to say it all to zero. What we were looking for when we were sovereign and we could, it was rejected, now it's gone. The only thing we can do is what this ministry has proposed, and I support this, because we're going to have a situation that our producers are now... I'm, like, having a terrible pressure on Bire, she's got three or four products that paid more expensively, and it's slaughtered them. Now I'm glad, I couldn't explain why for two years,...how many, seven months there are, why it's not 15 days as promised, I've heard now what's on the dream and, my people, this should react faster. Now you see how much damage these producers of ours have suffered. And if I told you, if we sued the state, we'd get that dispute. There, thank you.
ParlaMint-BA_2010-01-21-0.u7014	Okay, thank you very much. Mr Ivo Miro Jović. Ivo Miro
ParlaMint-BA_2010-01-21-0.u7015	: Thank you very much and very briefly. In the light of the bill's proposal, it is good to take this step when it comes to determining the quota of raw materials. However, paragraph (2) of the proposed law refers to natural and artificial fur, but also fur products. Since the product of fur is finished material, and in light of urgency in all countries, I would say to this Western European.... States (a fight similar to what we had by adopting the Animal Protection Act): if we become a market in which we can freely produce fur in this way, and in certain countries, the urgency is to prohibit the wearing of products that have the origin of natural fur, from the rate 10 to 0, I don't know what we've been doing. The second thing I wanted to say was in paragraphs (10) and (11). For all other amendments, however, we do not have a customs duty at all for these two. Excuse me, that's all in paragraph (10). The rate of 2.2 is introduced without reason whether there was any customs duty on these products at all, especially me, come on, I don't have to mind, but I'm surprised by the nuclear reactors, I don't know if they're the subject, but who and when and when they're going to import these types of goods, but they're introducing 2.2 customs and 2.2 when it comes to the use and manufacture of circuits for car turbo-compressors, as it says here. 25 And what bothers me is in Section 3, arguments under (Roman) II. During the negotiations between BiH and the European Community, concerning the Interim Agreement on Trade and Trade..., there was a mistake. We have a big and difficult job ahead of us, right in this area of negotiating those real negotiations with the EU. It would be very good competence and willingness not to make mistakes, because then we won't be able to correct them.
ParlaMint-BA_2010-01-21-0.u7016	Thank you very much. Mr. Koprivica, please.
ParlaMint-BA_2010-01-21-0.u7017	Thank you, Mr. Chairman. I, given that this is about first reading and that we have a positive report from the Commission and the Commission's Opinion on the principles of the Proposal for a Law on Supplements to the Customs Tariff Act, I propose that we do not now and there is really no need to discuss certain members, certain provisions of the laws proposed here. We will have an amendment phase and an opportunity to make concrete statements on all these issues, or we propose amendments and additions if we have them. So I suggest we conclude the debate and give our position on this issue.
ParlaMint-BA_2010-01-21-0.u7018	Okay, thank you very much. If no one answers the question, I'll conclude the debate and we'll vote on the bill's proposal in the first reading. Who Is For? The way I see it unanimously. There is no one “against, ”“ restrained. ” I agree that we adopted the Amendments and Supplements Act on the Customs Tariff of BiH in the first reading. And now we have to vote on this conclusion of the Commission on Foreign and Trade Policy, Customs, Traffic and Communications. You have received material that reads: 'As the House of Representatives of the BiH Parliamentary Assembly has not yet completed the procedure of adopting the Proposal for a Law on Amendments and Supplements to the Customs Tariff Act, the amendment phase for this proposal is being extended until 48 hours before the meeting of the Commission on Foreign and Trade Policy, Customs, Transport and Communications of the House of the People of the Parliamentary Assembly of BiH, which will be discussed.' Can we also adopt this conclusion? Who Is For? Is there anyone “against ”? "Sustained"? There isn't. I realize we've adopted this conclusion. 26 I, we move to the 7th point of the agenda: Ad. Seven. Proposal for a Law on the Protection of New Plant Varieties in Bosnia and Herzegovina (first reading), Proposer: Council of Ministers of BiH You have received the opinion of the Commission for Foreign and Trade Policy, Customs, Transport and Communications. The Commission has adopted the principles of the proposed law and proposes the adoption of the conclusion. This is the first reading of the bill, article 100. First there is a debate on the necessity and principles on which the bill is based. The House of Representatives passed the bill in the first reading. I give my word to the chairman of the Commission, Master Alma Čolo.
ParlaMint-BA_2010-01-21-0.u7020	Well, I'll do it for a while. We had a question from reporters in this home the other day: 'Is BiH not more important to work than to deal with the proposal for a law on the protection of new varieties of plants?' That's what they asked us as to who was caught by the MPs. So I would just say in front of this commission that BiH has this law that was passed in 2004, and that is one of the laws that is a condition for joining the World Trade Organisation and at the same time the EU. We all know how important it is to join the World Trade Organisation for BiH and in accordance with the International Convention on the Protection of New Plants, our Plant Variety Directorate has passed the 2004 Law. The Secretariat of the International Union for the Protection of New Plant Varieties, which has made a series of objections to the existing law on its compliance with international documents relating to this area, so that a new law has been drawn up that has been brought into line with international documents and BiH, of course, should adopt this law that is one of the laws that is not necessary for us to join, as I said, the World Trade Organisation. Therefore, it is not insignificant law, as presented in public. Thank you.
ParlaMint-BA_2010-01-21-0.u7021	Okay, thank you very much. I give the word to the bill promoter, if he's present. Here you go. Please introduce yourselves for a stenogram.
ParlaMint-BA_2010-01-21-0.u7022	Good afternoon. Milad Zeković, director of the BiH Plant Health Administration. Thank you, Mr. Chairman. Dear delegates, Mr. Minister and others present, as Mrs. Čolo said, BiH has a Law on the Protection of New Plant Varieties, but the sekretarijat... estimated that this law should be revised because most members do not comply with the 1991 International Convention, an act. We launched the initiative and a new law was made. 27 international experts, entity experts from the administration institutions, participated in the draft law. The law has received all the necessary opinions, positive opinions from all relevant entity ministries and BiH institutions. The essence of the law is the protection of intellectual property, the protection of the processing rights of breeders. He doesn't have anything controversial in him. It is in line with the BiH Constitution, with international directives, is in line with the.....convention, with TRIPS. And most importantly, he is in a set of laws that are a condition for BiH's accession to the World Trade Organisation. I don't think there's any reason, no objection that's not respected. There has been a public debate over the great interest in this law and there is therefore no small matter that this law is not adopted. Thank you, Mr. Chairman.
ParlaMint-BA_2010-01-21-0.u7023	Thank you very much. I'm opening a debate. Mrs. Majkić.
ParlaMint-BA_2010-01-21-0.u7024	I would like to say, as for this previous law, that given that the widest debate has been organised and that the remarks provided by the Ministry of Agriculture, Forestry and Water Management of the Republic of Slovenia have been incorporated into this law – we will support it.
ParlaMint-BA_2010-01-21-0.u7025	Thank you very much. Mr. Božo Ljubić.
ParlaMint-BA_2010-01-21-0.u7026	So, I support the adoption of this law for the reasons set out in the reasoning. But that doesn't mean that he's ideal, that he can't be better. At first, I want to say, so I don't want anything pretentious, so I also plead to know this area, but I consulted before this session with the professionals and, of course, my debate is short, based on these consultations. So the issue of varieties, as experts know, is regulated by two laws, the Law on Seeds and Fruitous Materials of Agricultural Plants of BiH and the Law on the Recognition of New Plants. The first regulates the description, the list of varieties, and the second is the protection of varieties of agricultural plants and processing rights. To become a member of UPOVA, therefore, appropriate legislation governing the protection of plant varieties is needed, an administrative professional institution that will take care of that. And, according to my information, no appropriate sublegal acts have been adopted in BiH which would mean the implementation of the laws already passed, so the question could therefore be asked in some way: why, I say, is the priority of amending and supplementing the law, therefore the new law, and is not implemented even through sublegal acts? 28 However, it is clear from the reasons that this is a condition for the WTO, that this is a condition for the EU and therefore I, of course, support the adoption of this law. However, of course, when we enter the text of this law, and I myself have witnessed it, so it seems a little bit like it was done quite a bit, let me put it this way, with a literal translation of the relevant laws available in the international community, so there are certain, so to speak, technically, linguistic awkwardness. But there's one other thing I want to point out, and here's what the promoters will do if they think it's obvious and obvious. For example. Article 15(2) reads: ‘In the course of the examination of the conditions laid down in Article (1) of this Article, the Commission may, by trusting an authorised accredited laboratory to cultivate the relevant variety or carry out other necessary tests or to take into account the results of the tests in BiH and other countries.’ So it's a quote from the law. As you can see, this article contains a lot of language and technical irregularities, the most important of which is that the laboratory cannot grow plants or perform any productive Polish studies. Therefore, what is important to me is that entities should therefore give consent or propose institutions or administrative organisations of the type of institution to which these examinations will be entrusted. So here it is now – after all, I do not want to reconsider whether it will be done, but I would not like the answer to that – whether the laboratory can perform these production activities or if the laboratory is just there to control it. Thank you very much. There are other things, of course, that I wouldn't be going into right now, and for the amendment phase, it can be applied. But I support the principles and I will uphold this law.
ParlaMint-BA_2010-01-21-0.u7027	Okay, thank you very much. We vote, no one answers their word anymore, right? We're voting on the bill's proposal in the first reading. Who Is For? ‘Non’? "Sustained"? There isn't. I find that the proposal for a law on the protection of new varieties of plants in BiH was adopted in the first reading. Now I suggest we make a statement about this conclusion by the Commission, just like last time, you got it in the material, related to the extension of this deadline. Who Is For? Is there anyone “against ”? There isn't. "Sustained"? I realize we've adopted this conclusion as well. Moving to the 8th point of the agenda: 29 Ad. 8. Proposal for a Law on Amendments and Supplements to the Law on Direct Foreign Investment Policy in Bosnia and Herzegovina (first reading), Proposer: Council of Ministers You have received the opinion of the Commission for Foreign and Trade Policy, Customs, Transport and Communications. The Commission has adopted the principles of the proposed law and proposes the adoption of the conclusion. This is the first reading of the bill, article 100. First there is a debate on the necessity and principles on which the bill is based. The House of Representatives adopted the bill in the first reading. I give my word to the chairman of the Commission, Master Alma Čolo. Here you go, Alma.
ParlaMint-BA_2010-01-21-0.u7029	The policy law on foreign direct investment, we have '98. the year when foreign investors in BiH had to register their individual investments, at the same time, with the competent authority of the state and with the competent authority in the appropriate entity. The law was amended in 2003, so foreign investors in BiH are said to register their individual foreign investments with the country's competent authority. According to the ministry's reasoning, these changes are heading towards simplifying the registration of foreign direct investment in BiH. We had little dilemmas on the Commission, given that the European Integration Directorate has delivered the Opinion, that there are no relevant provisions of the acquis communataire on which the provisions of this law can be referred, so that we will try to remove these dilemmas in the amendment phase, if they are of course shown to be justified. As for the principles of this law, the Commission has proposed that the principles of this law be supported. Thank you.
ParlaMint-BA_2010-01-21-0.u7030	Okay, thank you very much. I give my word to the legislator of this law, if he wishes. Minister Zirojević, please.
ParlaMint-BA_2010-01-21-0.u7031	Well, as has already been said, it is an amendment to this law which is anyway a very modern regulation that defines the area of foreign direct investment, which is responsible, which has resulted in more than 3 billion and 600 million euros in registered investment in BiH, which seems to be even better and more accessible to foreign investors. In fact, the Council of Ministers of BiH, with the help of the World Bank, launched a pilot project to assess the effects of the change... showing interest in approaching the world's best practices, including a new regulation system by the EU. A revision of the Law on Foreign Direct Investment Policy in BiH was carried out with the help of modelling. Basic amendments to the current law 30 are reviewed in that the preamble is absolutely deleted on the grounds that it does not comply with the single rules for the making of legal rules in BiH institutions. The amendments to the deadlines set in accordance with the ZUP, the Administrative Procedure Act, shall also be specified in certain terms, and all shall be in accordance with clearer definitions, such as the terms of direct and foreign investments, foreign controls, public information. And what is most important to me is the possibility that entity governments can assess which are economic operators dealing with this activity that can, with their approval, be sold at a percentage of 49%. I personally witnessed when a group of businessmen from Germany came to my office alive interested in buying one of our factories in Gorazd, a fantastic price, all satisfied. However, their condition was to buy one that is closely related to the activities of the one that is the subject of the purchase. I encouraged them to have an agreement with Germany on improving investment protection, to have modern laws, but for nothing, the dilemma remained and the problem is I can't buy 51% and these other factories. Eh, I hope, i.e. the initiative is the government of the entity to go into amending the law in this way, now it will be made possible and conditions will be created for customers, similar to the one I mention, to decide to buy these business entities. The paper is also of course that the process of registration of direct and foreign investments in the Ministry of Foreign Trade and Economic Relations is completely deleted. It will now be done in district courts in Banja Luka and Sarajevo, registration courts, and they will report on investments made by the Ministry of Foreign Trade and Economic Relations. I think the law is good, quite certainly this valid improvement and makes it even better and more accessible to foreign investors. That's it, thank you.
ParlaMint-BA_2010-01-21-0.u7032	Thank you very much. I'm opening a debate. Who's answering for a word? Mr. Adem Ibrahimpašić.
ParlaMint-BA_2010-01-21-0.u7033	Thank you, Chairman. I was confused when this was on the Commission because only investment in the establishment of a company was treated here. What is the investment and acquisition of shares of a company? What's up with that? So how is a state body that I think has to have information about what's being invested in the country, it has to have them to manage these processes, it doesn't say anywhere here that they're going to report it? I'm not about to approve now, not approve, it's written if you don't answer or react in... Ten days, it's a registered investment, just so you know what's being invested in this country, not only in a new company, but in existing companies where you buy a stock on the stock market, and you're either the owner of this, or the owner of that kind. So, and it's an investment and it has to be kind of reported, not to say registered. And this is only if you expect the courts to have a reaction to the company's registration and they're informing you, I'm asking, that's my clue, but come on, I'll back it up, this is the first reading, but let's see how we're going to do it, so all the investment is being reported here to a state body that might then be able to handle the total of these investments. There you go. Thank you. 31
ParlaMint-BA_2010-01-21-0.u7034	Okay, thank you very much. Božo Ljubić.
ParlaMint-BA_2010-01-21-0.u7035	My colleagues, my fellow envoys, Mr. Minister, it is clear that this law has been and has been in the function of removing barriers to direct and foreign investment in a more favourable investment environment and therefore I welcome its progress, and therefore I am on this committee and today I will support the adoption of this law. However, I also have some questions and certain proposals that could be incorporated, therefore, through the second amendment phase, and I am using this brief debate to encourage the proposal's representative to take account of these issues and possibly help to make this law even better for the amendment phase. First, in Article 2(2) relating to the definition, so under quotes, direct foreign investment which I think is incomplete, and I quote: 'direct foreign investment means investing in a newly established economic society and investing in an existing domestic economic society that can be in money, things and...' In my opinion, direct foreign investment can also be a public sector, e.g. Health, schooling, and if they were to remain in the existing definition, then it would be excluded if it were therefore accepted that the public sector would enter into the definition, then, of course, it would require the harmonisation of some more articles, inter alia Article 3. Furthermore, in Article 3 of the amending and supplementing the Law on Foreign Direct Investments in BiH, I propose that the change under f be deleted because the above changes create the possibility of certain, perhaps harshly said, manipulation of the amount of ownership. This is the case, I recall, of the proposal, to quote: ‘The Government of the Entity may take a decision if it considers it justified that the role of a foreign party in certain companies referred to in paragraph (a) of this Article shall not be subject to the restriction referred to in paragraph (a) of this Article.’ And this article in basic law, and I asked today to pass a basic law, reads: 'Article 4. (a) Regardless of the policy of free and direct foreign investment in BiH, in Article 3 of this law, a foreign stake in the main business dealing with the production and sale of weapons, ammunition, explosives for military use, military equipment and public information will not exceed 49% of this major in the company.' Now, if we were to adopt this restriction through this... we would adopt, that is, that would mean that a foreign investor would be allowed to gain control of this production through ownership rights, which could certainly have implications for the security of the state. So I couldn't support this change, but here's what I needed to say today in the debate. Thank you very much. 32
ParlaMint-BA_2010-01-21-0.u7036	Thank you very much. Mr. Koprivica, please.
ParlaMint-BA_2010-01-21-0.u7037	Thank you, Mr. Chairman. I'll do it for a while. I think the position and opinion that this law has the support of delegates prevails. Since it's about first reading, I'm not going to go into details or comment on any of the provisions of that law. I just want to say the fact that these are data coming from the FIPA, or the Agency for the Promotion of Foreign Investments in BiH: that in the previous years foreign investment in BiH, and that only thanks to the fact that a significant amount of funds has been invested in the ship's RS refinery by foreign investors... these data are about 30% lower than in 2008 so that one such law will certainly remove those obstacles that exist in order to boost foreign investment in BiH. So I'm not going into commenting on certain provisions, and I suggest we also make a statement about this law, given that it's first reading, and that we talk about these details and comments later, in phase two. Thank you.
ParlaMint-BA_2010-01-21-0.u7038	Okay, thank you very much. Is anyone else answering for word? He's not answering. I'm closing the debate. We're voting on the bill's proposal in the first reading. Who Is For? Is there anyone “against ”? There isn't. "Sustained"? There isn't. I agree that we unanimously adopted the Bill on Amendments and Supplements to the Law on Foreign Direct Investment Policy in BiH, in the first reading. I now again propose the Commission's conclusion as well as the previous point. Who Is For? Is there anyone “against ”? "Sustained"? There isn't. I realize we've adopted this conclusion as well. Now we're going to the 9th point, earlier the 12th, that's 33 Ad. Nine. Consideration of the Annual Information and Security Policy Platform, with the opinion of the Joint Commission on Oversight of the work of Bosnia and Herzegovina's Intelligence and Security Agency, Proposer: BiH Presidency Note: Last session during this debate on this agenda item, it was objected to the words 'dating data to help resolve open issues of the state border, BiH's right to go out to the open sea', etc., which is on page 4. This Regulation shall enter into force on the twentieth day following that of its publication in the Official Journal of the European Union. After the debate, the People's House adopted a conclusion asking the committee to reconsider the formulations of the above-mentioned words from the text of the Annual Platform in Intelligence and Security Policy. With regard to the House of Nations, it unanimously decided to return the Annual Information and Security Policy Platform to the competent commission for review and delivery of a new opinion. You have received a new opinion from the Joint Commission on Oversight over the work of the BiH Intelligence and Security Agency. The Commission has not given a positive opinion on the Annual Information and Security Policy Platform. The House of Representatives adopted the Annual Information and Security Policy Platform. I give my word to Božo Rajić, whom this commission has appointed as rapporteur in the House of Peoples. Here you go, sir.
ParlaMint-BA_2010-01-21-0.u7040	Thank you, Mr. Chairman. As you yourself have said, the Opinions delivered show that the Joint Commission for the Control of Labour Legality of the BiH Intelligence and Security Agency failed to reach agreement at the request of the People's House of the Parliamentary Assembly of BiH to draft and deliver a new opinion. There were two suggestions, as you can see here. One was that the text which was the subject of the debate at the House of Nations was cleared of some words, some additions, because it did not pass. Then was the second conclusion that he gave a positive opinion, he was changed in the text, which he also did not pass. And now we have come to the situation that this commission comes before the House of Nations with the condition that it cannot offer any answer: it neither supported the Annual Platform nor corrected it as suggested. Let's see what we can do next. Thank you.
ParlaMint-BA_2010-01-21-0.u7041	Okay, thank you very much. I now give my word to the promoter of the Annual Platform if he is present. It's not. In accordance with Article 101. The Rules of Procedure of the House of Peoples, the House declares itself on the committee's opinion after it has received an explanation from the opinion-makers. 34 Meanwhile, we got another proposal. If anyone answers their word, let's see it first, or we'll vote right now. Okay. I'm opening a debate. Niko one's answering for a word. Mr Filipović, please.
ParlaMint-BA_2010-01-21-0.u7042	I welcome all my colleagues and colleagues and all those who follow our meeting today at the House of Peoples. Since no one has reported for the debate, and how I, through the manual, divided the proposal one which, in accordance with Article 101(3) of our Rules of Procedure, I am therefore offering a solution to get out of this crisis to which we have entered the second opinion of the Joint Commission or the Committee for Oversight over the work of the BiH Intelligence and Security Agency. As Honorable counterpart Rajić put it, there was a debate here on the request of the People's House on a syntagma that was first page in the fourth row, the paragraph of this Opinion bolded, and it turns out that there was no agreement when it voted on this recommendation to the House of Nations when we did not accept the Annual Platform, so the first conclusion was to vote on the Annual Platform by having it re-delivered to the Presidency, but there was no support for the Committee. The second conclusion was to give a positive opinion to this year's Information Security Policy Annual Platform, but there was also no agreement on the Joint Commission. I, in accordance with the provisions of the Rules of Procedure, propose to the House of Peoples that we refuse to accept a negative opinion and return to the Joint Commission the Annual Platform to review, but at the same time I propose that we set new guidelines at the House of Peoples of the Joint Commission for the Control of the Work of the Intelligence and Security Agency of BiH in the sense of eradicating part of the text on page 4 in Chapter IIa). In this way, the act The Annual Information and Security Policy Platform would also be acceptable for the Croatian Club in the House of Peoples of the Parliamentary Assembly of BiH, and the Annual Platform would continue to contain the text, it is hospitalized here in my proposal, collecting data to help resolve open issues of the state border but, therefore, without entering and giving details because it is the tasks of the state bodies, the authorities in which it is relevant. So, I think this guideline could open new discussions on the Annual Platform on the Joint Commission. So there might have been other ideas, but it would have been after the consultations that we had as a Croatian Club with other clubs, there were some other ideas to add here, not to be touched by what I'm saying, maybe all these ideas can be found on the Joint Commission and then let the Joint Commission deliver a positive opinion that we will discuss here at the House of Peoples. So this is all I propose in accordance with the provisions of the Rules of Procedure of the House of Peoples. Thank you very much. 35
ParlaMint-BA_2010-01-21-0.u7043	Okay, thank you very much. Mr. Rančić answered his word.
ParlaMint-BA_2010-01-21-0.u7044	Thank you very much, Your Honor. Dear colleagues and colleagues, therefore, it is true that we had the Annual OSA Platform in the last session. We even praised that this was the first time since the establishment of the OSA and the work and the Council of Ministers and the Presidency and Parliament, and then during the debate we came to the position that we said - let it return to the committee in charge. On the committee responsible, here's unfortunately, the outcome of the vote was what we were informed of. So we are also talking about a negative opinion on this occasion, as well as a proposal from counterpart Ilija Filipović. I want to point out once again, so some of the facts that we all know, that BiH is a sovereign state with its territorial integrity and international subjectivity, and I want BiH as a state to fully comply with domestic and international law. So we're not looking for anything that BiH doesn't belong under international law or under domestic law. And we demand that all its institutions, both legislative and executive authorities, work to achieve these objectives of legal, legitimate, and in accordance with international law and domestic regulations. Also, on the other hand, I confirm, advocate, fight, here I am declaring that our neighbours, all the countries surrounding us are sovereign, that they have their territorial integrity and that they also have their international and legal subjectivity which I do not want anyone by BiH and its institutions to question. So, I advocate, declare and confirm that our neighbouring countries have the same rights as BiH, of course, both by international law and by their domestic regulations that are in force. So I don't want BiH and its institutions to get in the way of these issues in any of our neighbouring countries. I also want to remind all of us that the Intelligence and Security Agency as one of the bodies in BiH has jurisdiction on these issues and they are prescribed in Article 1. The Intelligence and Security Agency Act, which says "is responsible for the collection, analysis and distribution of intelligence to protect and security, including sovereignty, territorial integrity and constitutional order of BiH". Also, Article 3 speaks of the Agency's competence in the whole of BiH, and Article 5 reiterates that 'the Agency is responsible for the collection of intelligence related to threats to the security of BiH, both inside and outside BiH, their analysis and transfer to authorised officials and bodies related to analysis, use' etc., etc. So this right that we advocate to be and to stand in this document, and what should be obligations and other institutions, so we are looking for BiH's right to go out to the open sea. So it's about law and legal procedures and standards, and no violence or, Bog forbid, entering any sovereignty or question of their territorial integrity. 36 And finally, therefore, I support the position of all colleagues not to accept the negative opinion of the committee responsible, because accepting negative opinion means that we do not have this platform. I want us to have this platform, and it results in the obligation prescribed in Article 7 of that law, and it knows exactly who does it: the Council of Ministers, approves the Presidency, and we, of course, adopt as Parliament. So I can't accept my colleague's proposal because it's legal, legitimate BiH law. We're not looking for anything that doesn't belong to us. And we are not authorized as the House or Parliament to delete something that BiH belongs to as an international legal entity. What we might be able to discuss is not to accept this negative opinion, let the Council of Ministers and the Presidency also be referred to, of course, after being on the Commission and have them reconsidered, let the experts in this area take it and let them say whether BiH belongs to this right. If it belongs to us, we do not have the right to give it up, but we are obliged to do everything possible to ensure that BiH as a state is internationally recognised, sovereign and with territorial integrity achieves all its functions in the interests of its citizens. Thank you.
ParlaMint-BA_2010-01-21-0.u7045	Okay, thank you very much. The replica was answered by Mr. Ilija Filipović. Here you go.
ParlaMint-BA_2010-01-21-0.u7046	Thank you very much. So, a small replica relative to a single syntagma, to one point today, to one conclusion that, if applied, perhaps I do not respect BiH's sovereignty with this view. Bog didn't give me much care, so it can be concluded because what you're fighting for is to stay inside, I don't think it's, it doesn't belong to this reading. So, it doesn't belong to the Annual Information and Security Policy Platform of BiH, because I think this is about something that maybe we haven't examined enough. I, withdrawing this issue and preparing for this session, consulted the best experts on international law, public law, especially those dealing with the law of the sea. And I call upon you who think differently and that I'm wrongly speaking, which is why I advocate that this syntax come out of this, to consult the UN Convention that was born for 10 years and was born in 1982 in the UN Convention on the Law of the Sea, which does not know two words. He doesn't know the word 'corridor' and he doesn't know the word 'exit', but he knows something that's never been prevented by any country that has to go to the open sea across the territorial sea, which is the sovereign territory of a state, in this case what's between Peljesac and between Klek in the middle of a drawn line in accordance with international rules, so two waters are being touched where they end and the state-law territory of another country begins. Nowhere has it ever happened that those countries respecting the UN Convention on Law must be sailing and sailing, whether commercial, whether tourist ships, whether other vessels and other vessels in coastal areas or in other countries' ports have been limited. There is no country to this restriction through which territorial waters are passed. That's why I suggested that it be deleted because there are a lot of open questions. This is one of the open issues regarding BiH and requires it to enter into one document, one law that has not yet been defined. There is, I will also remind my colleague Rančić and return you to thinking about this issue of International Public Law, there is a signed Interstate Treaty between BiH and 37 of the Republic of Croatia on the demarcation at sea. It was signed on 30 July 1999 and signed by President Tuđman and BiH Presidency President Izetbegović. The contract is in effect and the contract is in effect until another contract is signed. This contract that I'm talking about contains one map of exactly that distinction I've been telling you about, and it's done in accordance with the legal practice of how many waters of state and territorial other countries have diverged, when it comes to the free navigation of people, things and all the vessels from one to the other state finger. So I'm just asking you to take it and accept it, check it out, so we can find this as a fact now. So, I didn't argue with the way it stands in the opinion, I didn't advocate erasing all this stuff that's boeded on the first page of opinion, this is a hoax to me. I don't want to swallow that prank. I don't find it controversial to collect data that will help resolve open issues of the state border. Well, please, I'm a Hrvat and I believe that's what every Hrvat thinks. The Croatian national interest is indivisible and let me think this way so that there are no new misunderstandings between my two countries. If anything is going to stand in this document, be it with support, not only with the presidency's wish. And while I'm at it, therefore, I don't want us to prejudge anything that is the issue of the ILO, which is the issue of international public law, which is a matter of the UN Convention on the Law of the Sea. So I'm on that track and there's no one here, I think, no one can object to anything. And as for the act called the Annual Platform, it is a proposal from the Presidency as well as any other proposal from any state body decided only by Parliament. And what passed in the House of Representatives, and no one noticed it, so it did not prevent it; as if something had passed in the House of Representatives and we had fixed it. We can fix something, which means we can leave something behind, so we can write something down. And I love this thinking, too, Mr. Rančić, which you just said, that maybe instead of this individual question, because we have a passage through Neum, so we have a Kostajnica Rica, so we have others, we have a 10th, not to count and not to waste your time and mine, this is one of the questions that's already been regulated by some things and let us not get into new traps and misunderstandings with our neighbors. The thing is, if this is a question, this is really a matter of interstate agreement. If that's what we're looking at, then it really isn't the place here, but maybe it can be about these things that you've been saying that, in accordance with legal and international legal practice, international legal norms and domestic legislation, it can be installed on the Joint Commission instead, and we've solved everything. It was not then lost,...and it is there and it will come to Parliament the moment it is devoured by state relevant bodies, and it will come to Parliament for ratification. It won't be the end of the story without us in Parliament. Thank you very much for your attention.
ParlaMint-BA_2010-01-21-0.u7047	The replica was answered by Božo Rajić, first of all, so we have... Ivo Miro
ParlaMint-BA_2010-01-21-0.u7048	I've got the wrong quote.
ParlaMint-BA_2010-01-21-0.u7049	All right, then. There's a wrong quote before, so I'm saying. 38 Ivo Miro
ParlaMint-BA_2010-01-21-0.u7050	: Dear colleague Rančić said this was for the first time the Bureau sent this kind of document called the Annual Security Platform. However, in accordance with the Law on Amendments and Supplements to the Law on the Intelligence and Security Agency of BiH, it was found: that the BiH Presidency is delivering to the Parliamentary Assembly a platform on the intelligence and security policy no later than 1 November, 1. 11, and this Annual Platform is 24. 11th only from the Bureau was sent, so it is not true that this was sent in due time and that this was for the first time. Secondly, I also want to say, on several occasions, a colleague said it is a sovereign right and belongs to BiH's right. Well, it wouldn't be slow then. We wouldn't be discussing this at all, if that's the right thing to do. He's right as much as two people agree. And this very proposal by a respected fellow Filipović contributes to this subject through the sentence 'gathering data that will contribute to resolving open border issues', and that is what it is contained in, and not to single out just one detail in this way, I don't think it's good.
ParlaMint-BA_2010-01-21-0.u7051	Okay, thank you. Mr. Božo Rajić.
ParlaMint-BA_2010-01-21-0.u7052	Thank you. A colleague Rančić opened it, and then Mr Filipović or his colleague Filipović referred to something that we were trying to avoid all forces on this committee, which is to get into the measure of things, to deal with the determination of rights and even judgment. That's not our job. It's not even a job at home at this stage to discuss this document. This House, as well as the second House of Parliamentary Assembly on these issues, on the law, on international law and conventions, etc., may speak of agreements of states in the phase of ratification of the agreement. And this is all another political bargain, an attempt to capitalize a political stance. So, I was, and there was a majority opinion not only of my opinion, most notably majority, but there was not enough representation of the constituent people on the Joint Commission, so I was of the opinion that we should not discuss this issue of the Annual Platform offered by the BiH Presidency, that it fully satisfies the integrity and all interests of BiH if it is said that the OSA and other intelligence sectors in BiH will serve to address the issue of borders, not borders, but borders as a whole. And we, I really think, without bidding with false patriotism or patriotism that wants to capitalise in some way that it satisfies the interests of both the BiH state and every of its people and every citizen of BiH and we also wanted to avoid not only the debate on the essence of the matter, that is, the issue that is still open, I will not say it in dispute but openly, we also wanted to avoid those qualifications that would mean prejudicing a solution from either side and which would mean a possible violation of not particularly good relations with neighbours. And now we're coming into this situation to open the debate in a way that we have an interstate agreement, so now we're talking about whether it's in line with 39 of our understanding, whether it's in accordance with international law or not. It's not our job, I say, not today at this home, not especially at the Committee. And I answered, not to replicate, but in a certain way to polarise this proposal's conclusion. So, I support this conclusion, but we will come back to the Committee, we will have the same ratio of political will, and we will turn forever at it, because we will not get the consent of the constituent peoples in the way that we want to achieve it. And since I am the first deputy chairman of that committee, I assure you that we will not achieve anything on this trail, and we will meet again at the next session with a negative opinion, or with the opinion of the non-existent, no opinion of this committee, and we will return round again. Either someone has to make a constructive concession on this text that's controversial or we'll spin round, we'll never achieve anything.
ParlaMint-BA_2010-01-21-0.u7053	Okay, thank you. Mr. Rančić was looking for a possible replica, back on the line.
ParlaMint-BA_2010-01-21-0.u7054	Well, I don't want much, so I don't want to waste any time. Not one word of my own, I didn't want to go into the metrics with discussion. I spoke in principle about standards, international law, the same rules that apply to both BiH and our neighbours, so for all three countries surrounding BiH. So what is in force and what should apply to BiH, the same rules and the same standards, here, in this case and towards the Republic of Croatia. So I'm not asking for anything more or less in favour of BiH than I am of our neighbours. And so it was my proposal, but with it I will end up with, and here's a fellow Rajić, so I didn't go into the metrics, I don't consider myself an expert, but with all due respect to all my colleagues, I don't think that any of us are an expert on this area, so there was no need for another mention of certain rules in this area that I know for sure, here I respect these professor titles, etc., but I know that only people from the profession and sciences closely specialized in this area can talk about the metrics. It is a bit of an unusual replication of a respected colleague, Jović, who claims that I incorrectly said that this is the first time the Annual Platform has come as it is, nature. _________(?) [[no microphone turned on]] I said and I thought it was about us and the last time we said that the Annual Platform here was the first time we came into a position to adopt it in time, in December, to be like a planned OSA framework document in 2010. So far as we have adopted this mandate, it has been over the year or at the end of the year. Understanding the rights as 40 colleagues, Ivo Miro Jović, of course, is incorrect, the law is not what they agree on, it is possible to be part of it, but the law is something much wider than just one agreement. The deal can be right, and I know that in many things the sides can agree and that it is the right thing to do, but the law is something much wider than that. And finally, here's what my colleague and Filipović said, only that part, I will say, that the attempt to provide the instructions to the competent commission in this way, as suggested by counterpart Filipović will not deliver the results, as confirmed by counterpart Božo Rajić. That is why I am asking and I have also suggested that we vote negatively, therefore against the Commission's negative opinion, and that we return to this committee with a proposal to return the Annual Platform only in this sentence, in this section, to consider also the Council of Ministers who are preparing and the Presidency, with the consultations of relevant experts in this area and that when everything is back to us and that we adopt it as soon as possible. Thank you.
ParlaMint-BA_2010-01-21-0.u7056	Okay. Drago Ljubičić answered for his word.
ParlaMint-BA_2010-01-21-0.u7057	Mr. Chairman, written gentlemen, I hope that my discussion will not cause any replica or discussion regarding false allegations. But here I'm going to try, and I'm going to join one part of my thinking when it comes to the Annual Bureau Platform that we've got here this time and this year for as many times as before. I think that, at least today, we should try to find a compromise and get out of this situation that we've found ourselves in. I'm taking my personal opinion. I think by leaving part of the text where the border is mentioned, and I think that's where we should look for a compromise, it can also refer to what the gentlemen, so the Hrvat, have responded. I think there should be a compromise here, and if there is a compromise and a solution and what Mr. Rančić has suggested when it comes to our statement on the Commission's opinion that, in this context, he is trying to find a solution and that from this situation where we have found ourselves, we simply need to consider it to find a solution. I don't think it would be a good idea for us now to come into a situation with our House statement just now that the Annual Platform is experiencing one fate if we hadn't adopted it as we had the situation in previous years that this platform wasn't half a year or until the end of the year, etc. Now let's not put this document in a position as simple as the Intelligence Agency has to work without this document. We know legally that the obligation is that this platform exists. Thank you.
ParlaMint-BA_2010-01-21-0.u7058	Mr. Adem Ibrahimpašić. 41
ParlaMint-BA_2010-01-21-0.u7059	Well, I'm gonna say that I've had this idea from the beginning that it's become some kind of problem. I think we're wasting our time on nothing. So this is not a question of borders, this is not about us wanting some of Croatia's territorial waters. This is not a dispute between Croatia and Slovenia. They, and you Hrvat yourselves, say, "Here you go, you Slovenac, but this is our territory." So it's not about the border at all. As it says here, "and the right to go out to the open sea." Through what? Through the territorial waters of Croatia. So, I've understood it so much since the beginning, and I don't see what we're doing here at all. You could have written here when you were thinking in that commission 'right or going out to the open sea in accordance with the international law that regulates this area', and finished talking. That is why I say the same thing: we should vote to reject therefore the Commission's negative opinion. Here are these ideas for you to see on this committee: if you can make a deal, make a deal; if not, vote and let it go to the Presidency and make it any way it pleases. And we obviously can't go any other way around here... So, from the beginning, I've been looking at this thing this way. And the fool knows there's so many of those islands that we can't have some sea of our own... except in that part that they signed, say, Izetbegović and Tuđman, that's the only thing we can hold on to. Access and exit are the same thing. If he does, then something can come, he can't leave.
ParlaMint-BA_2010-01-21-0.u7060	Okay, thank you very much. Mr. Božo Ljubić, then Dušanka Majkić, then Brano Zrno.
ParlaMint-BA_2010-01-21-0.u7061	My colleagues and fellow envoys, we here have this Annual Platform of Presidency and it is adopted by Parliament. I do not see this problem, or do not think, in fact, that Parliament must adopt to the word what the Presidency has sent, without being able to change anything, because then it would be the worst for this platform, because it would be adopted or not adopted, and our goal is to adopt it. It means that we have a document indicatively on which the Agency will be able to work at full capacity, although I think it has its own work description and its activities and it will work with this platform without this platform. However, what I notice here from these discussions, in fact, although we may differ in size, but it seems to me that there is no significant difference in the way out of this situation, neither in Mr Filipović's proposal nor in Mr Rančić's proposal, and I think we should go that way. None of us here are experts in matters of the rights of the sea and borders and I believe Mr Ibrahimpašić thought so. I'm not sure everyone in this room is interpreting this sentence the same way. Therefore, according to my understanding of BiH's right to go out to the open sea, that would mean, therefore, this definition, to say the BiH border, I don't know either, in Neumski Bay... or somewhere near Peljesac, but somewhere behind Vis. No one here, let me put it this way, is slow, there's never been a dispute, so a smooth passage and sailing, and no one can even ban it. In the end, I talked the other day, accidentally touched, not on this particular issue, but on another issue, so sea, onion, etc. Mr. Inck, High Representative. 42 You know what he says: three lands and four ports compete over which Austria will make available its port to Austria, which has no even one metre of the sea, Rotterdam, Trieste, Kopar, the River. So, you don't work here, I mean, no one can stop a smooth sailing through territorial waters, if that's what they are, and probably they are. However, leaving such a formulation could indeed lead to problems and deny the continuation of this sentence, which reads: 'which will contribute to improving overall relations with neighbouring countries'. So it could even complicate, it would be in the same sentence that we have a contradiction in our efforts. Therefore, it is no problem for me to return it to the Presidency in an appropriate procedural manner so that the Presidency will come up with another formulation, taking into account the debate at the House of Peoples or even I do not see the problem that we today do not adopt the Annual Platform with this amendment proposed by fellow Filipović, quote: 'collect data which will contribute to resolving open issues of state borders'. I'm even ready to say "in accordance with international law." Therefore, there is no problem. And then we adopted this intelligence community platform with this one formulation that involves everything that, here I think here, we may in different ways understand. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-BA_2010-01-21-0.u7062	Replica, Rančić.
ParlaMint-BA_2010-01-21-0.u7063	The controversial part of the sentence in this second position on page 4 reads: 'which will contribute to resolving open issues of the state border' (point-point). So it's one question of all the issues of the state border. Secondly,'BiH's right to go out to the open sea', that is the second question, 'and the data that will contribute to improving overall relations with neighbouring countries.' It's about three things. The question of the state border cannot be identified with this issue of going out to the open sea. Why? Well, here's why. Simply, there are open border issues, perhaps with Montenegro and Serbia or perhaps upstairs in Shamac or Brod, and this issue will be resolved. But the question of going out to the open sea cannot be brought up with the issue of boundaries in those areas, but it is known exactly where that question is being brought, whether it is, and will be or will not be achieved. So here I could agree to say, 'which will contribute to resolving the open issues of the state border, BiH's right to go out to the open sea, in accordance with international law'. If it belongs to us, we'll get it. If it doesn't belong to us, we won't get it. I'm not looking for any violence. I'm looking for a right in accordance with international law. Nothing else.
ParlaMint-BA_2010-01-21-0.u7064	The replica of Božo Ljubić again, here we go.
ParlaMint-BA_2010-01-21-0.u7065	Here, I am asking questions and, in fact, from this discussion of Mr. Rančić, it follows that he accepts that there are other open issues of the border, but they are not clearly listed here. Why does 43 state a question that is supposed to be open? On the other hand, who goes out to the open sea, Bosnia and Herzegovina or Bosnia and Herzegovina's ships? It's a matter of different understanding now.
ParlaMint-BA_2010-01-21-0.u7066	/no microphone turned on/
ParlaMint-BA_2010-01-21-0.u7067	Well, that's another thing. But we don't speak here who goes out to the open sea. Does Bosnia and Herzegovina go to the open sea or Bosnia and Herzegovina's ships? You know, it's, and ultimately, if anyone here has answered the question of whether it's an open question at all. Is this question currently open in any institution, institutionally? And here it is implicated, or not implicated, explicitly states that this is an open question. And here it's listed as if it's the only open question, and certainly not. Therefore, I think itinerates the definition of "data collection that will contribute to resolving open issues of the state border, in accordance with international law", and nothing more. He doesn't mention anyone else, or Kostaninica, or me, or Save, or Drina, or anything, etc. So that's it.
ParlaMint-BA_2010-01-21-0.u7068	Here, Mrs. Majkić. I apologize, only Božo Rajić, again.
ParlaMint-BA_2010-01-21-0.u7069	Well, Mr. Chairman, I don't want to deepen the debate or spread it, but it's obviously from Mr. Rančić's point of view that we're not going to agree on this. Because if, as a lawyer with experience and knowledge, it is not acceptable for him to formulate "resolve BiH's border issues, in accordance with international law", then he has other intentions, and I will not participate. It's absolutely for me, because I understand well what the term 'access to international waters, going out to the open sea' means. I know it's a territorial principle of ownership and let's not play games. We have learned enough from the example of Slovenia and Croatia to know what is the way out to the sea, we know what free passage is, we know what territorial waters are, we know what contact is with international waters. You know these games, we don't have to get involved in that, or that's our job. As a member of this committee and parliamentarian, I am absolutely pleased that there is a solution to the border issues of all, so not only one in accordance with international law. If there are other models beyond international law, I will not participate in this story.
ParlaMint-BA_2010-01-21-0.u7070	Again, Rančić, here's the replica again on the replica and the incorrect quote. 44
ParlaMint-BA_2010-01-21-0.u7071	It is an netačan allegation of a respected fellow Rajić that I have spoken and claimed ever, even this time and by any word, that I have aspirations towards the state of the Republic of Croatia, Bog forbid. Let's take a look at the stenogram of my original presentation where I've defined it and said that neither I, here's our club, nor any of our institutions should have aspirations in territorial terms towards any of our countries surrounding us, nor those surrounding us, so to any country. I specifically said that I support both sovereignty and territorial integrity and international-legal subjectivity and BiH, but also our countries that surround us, and that for BiH alone I seek one of the rights that I believe belongs to it under international rights.
ParlaMint-BA_2010-01-21-0.u7072	Here's Mrs. Majkić. Here you go.
ParlaMint-BA_2010-01-21-0.u7073	I'm watching this session take place, and I'm getting a little bit more and more caught up to see what the agenda is, and I'm thinking for a moment whether or not we're ratifying the border agreement. So obviously not. So then I see that the document is called the Annual Security Security Policy Platform. So then I look at a chapter where there's a controversial text called Intelligence Data Collection. So what's OSA gonna do? Which segment will they collect the data in? So I see that they will collect... for BiH's NATO accession to the alliance and the EU. They will seek, participate in checks on the legitimacy of foreign entities and verify the credibility of foreign businesses, among other things, and will address this issue of the state border. I think there's a clear misunderstanding here, not in the presidency, but in the Council of Ministers. It is the Minister's advice that prepares the Annual Platform. He's sending it to the presidency. The Bureau approves. It sends it to the parliamentary assembly that adopts it. So where do I think the exit is? I think the way out is that someone from the Council of Ministers who is the creator of this platform can make us not talk about something we're not going to agree on ourselves. The Bošnjak position is clearly what it is that it is a fateful question for them. The Hrvat attitude is what it is. As far as we're concerned, I can tell you that we're quite indifferent to that question. And I don't see any reason why this kind of panic is taking place, except that I only support those who feel that I should return it to this committee, that this commission should be called upon by the creator of the Year's Platform, which is the Council of Ministers. And I think he's the only one who can tell if it can be thrown out or not. Because we're not talking about the border, we're talking about what OSA is going to do. And get out more of that dead end. So, I suggest he return to the Commission, call someone from the Council of Ministers and solve this problem. Otherwise, what's going to happen, we can be without this platform. There were years when this parliament had no platform. What's better? That those three sentences that don't solve the issue of the border fall out of this text and that we have the Annual Platform or that OSA works without this platform? Now, that's the question every club needs to make. 45
ParlaMint-BA_2010-01-21-0.u7074	Okay, thank you very much. We still have Mr. Branko Zrno. Here you go.
ParlaMint-BA_2010-01-21-0.u7075	Thank you very much, Chairman. I hope I don't finish this debate. I've reported myself a dozen times, though.
ParlaMint-BA_2010-01-21-0.u7076	I'm sorry.
ParlaMint-BA_2010-01-21-0.u7077	No hand was seen, I guess. You need to raise your hand a little bit better. I was really going to find out that we went too far in our story about a simple act. If there's a problem, I don't think it's a problem. Because this is not the time of any measure nor can I speak of it, nor the conclusion, not even the raise of hands, because we will raise our hands once we ratify interstate agreements as in some other cases we do and do. It is a clear wish for all of us to bring this platform back to the Committee. With this platform, it's logical to go and act that came as a proposal, which is protocold. That's supposed to be our obligation. However, this commission or committee as the working body of this Parliament will discuss and decide again on its own. If it's a request for an opinion, I also believe it's not about the Presidency, it's about the Council of Ministers. Because the Annual Platform was created in the Council of Ministers, probably passed through the Bureau, and no one had opened it, certainly, or examined it, or seen what it says. In fact, it should write what a police agency should do. And when I think about what you should write in it, then there's still an awful lot of surpluses in this platform, I guess it's gonna be a lot more scrawny, richer, sometimes a ghost, and sometimes a head more comfortable and more comfortable, but we don't need to get out of this moment, I'm saying, I'm saying, I'm saying, it's just practically doing what we are now, getting out of this, we have exits. Whether it will be an invitation to whoever offered this platform in the Council of Ministers to respond and offer a solution or be an act that will be asked by the Council of Ministers for a new indication, but only on this part that is here today disputed, it is quite aware. I suggest that we do this, not accept the existing opinion of the Committee, return the Annual Platform to this committee with a hand-proposed proposal and ask this committee to, we know who is sitting, it is the Joint Commission... to find an agreement and get out of this situation. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-BA_2010-01-21-0.u7078	Okay, thank you very much. Anyone else answer for a word? If he's not answering, I'll conclude. 46 We today have the opinion of the Joint Commission. If the House accepts the opinion of the Joint Commission, the proposed Annual Information and Security Policy Platform is considered rejected. If he does not accept the Opinion, we can ask that a new opinion be drawn based on these guidelines which are presented on both sides and on both sides and that, within a certain period, it may be up to the next session...
ParlaMint-BA_2010-01-21-0.u7079	/no microphone turned on/
ParlaMint-BA_2010-01-21-0.u7080	Okay, here's Mr. and Filipović, and I think everyone has suggested that this negative opinion be rejected. Well, let's vote on that proposal first. Or we have to vote first on this commission's proposal. First, here's the vote on the Joint Commission's opinion. Who is "for" the Commission's opinion? There is no one, one is "for". Who Is “against ”? Who is “abstained ”? Other meanings are “against. ” We now have a proposal here by Mr Filipović and others to reject the opinion and to ask for a new opinion in line with this and today's discussions that we had and I think it is good that Mrs Majkić also suggested that the Council of Ministers be involved in the development of a new opinion.
ParlaMint-BA_2010-01-21-0.u7081	With my guidance that I suggested.
ParlaMint-BA_2010-01-21-0.u7082	Here is definitely your guideline and guideline here is the Rančić or which they gave. Can we adopt that? Who Is For? Is there anyone “against ”? There isn't. With one vote "abstained" we have adopted this conclusion now, an opinion. We're going to 13. Actually, now it's not the 13th point of the agenda, now it's the 10th point. Ad. Ten. Information on the authorisations issued for the transport of arms, military equipment and dual-use products in 2008 47 You have received information as well as the Commission's opinion on defence and security. The Commission has received information and is proposing to the House the adoption of conclusions. The House of Representatives is considering this information at today's session that is under way. I give my word to Branko Zrn, chairman of the Joint Commission. Here you go.
ParlaMint-BA_2010-01-21-0.u7084	Thank you very much. Mr. Chairman, given that this is about Information, not the report, means the Joint Defence and Security Commission of the BiH Parliamentary Assembly, the information has been made known, however, some shortcomings in the Information have been observed, so we have reached conclusions. Here are the conclusions offered that we are reporting in accordance with the legal provisions, because the law there says twice a year, although the law has experienced changes and additions, so now, but so far this has been one time, and that we are informed and that we have data on the really realised exports and imports which cannot be read from the information offered. Furthermore, to have full information and on the denied applications for authorisation and the reasons for refusal of such requests. It's always a bit of an intriguing and interesting matter, and that's why here goes with these conclusions. And in order for the information to be complete, it is also necessary to satisfy what we have covered up with the conclusion of this committee. I suggest that the House also blow up the Infomacija, take it to the knowledge and accept the conclusions of our commission. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-BA_2010-01-21-0.u7085	Okay, thank you very much. Now I give my word to the Proposer Information if he is present and if he wants to say anything. There's nothing, thank you. I'm opening a debate. Is anyone answering their word? Hazim Rančić.
ParlaMint-BA_2010-01-21-0.u7086	So I fully support the Commission's proposed conclusions. I just want to add one more time, so let's confirm it one more time so we don't have to hide. In fact, according to the existing law, they were only wrong, which I know, not twice and in time, and they wrote a report the way this existing regulation and regulation did. However, we have spoken there and I think it is clear to them and I want them to hear it once again, if these views on the full, comprehensive, full, accurate reporting of Parliament by the ministry on these important issues, means that it is necessary to make changes to the Law on Import and Control of the Movement of Weapons and Ammo, 48 then that, since it does not say here, that they realize that it is necessary to do the first thing in that article to predict that the precise data is due to be delivered to Parliament, otherwise we do not have complete and real control in this segment. If we are talking to ourselves that we have achieved in this area of democratic control of the Armed Forces, then Parliament must have precise information on this issue, not only about the permits issued and these amounts but also about those realised and then precisely where what is exported, what kind of goods, services, etc., etc. Then it can be understood as complete control, otherwise we don't have complete control. And we are not the only ones, there is someone else who is authorized to exercise this control, of course, is the international force present in BiH. When they are reported, then it is complete and Parliament is not fully reporting. We demand that Parliament also have complete information. Thank you.
ParlaMint-BA_2010-01-21-0.u7087	Okay, thank you very much. If no one answers their word anymore, I'll put the information to the vote. Who Is For? Is there anyone “against ”? There isn't. "Sustained"? One. I find that the information on the authorisations issued for the transport of arms, military equipment and dual-use products in 2008 has been received. We are now voting on a proposal for the Joint Commission's conclusions. Who Is For? Is there anyone “against ”? There isn't. "Sustained"? I find that we unanimously adopted the conclusions of the Joint Commission. We move to the next item of the agenda, that's the 11th point: Ad. 11. Giving consent to ratification of the Sixth Additional Protocol with the Constitution of the World Postal Federation You have received a report from the Commission on foreign and trade policy, customs, traffic and communication. The House of Representatives at today's session, which is under way, is considering giving consent. I give my word to the Chairman of the Commission, Master Alma Čolo, if necessary. You don't have to. No Niko's answering for a word. 49 We vote. Who Is For? Is there anyone “against ”? There isn't. "Sustained"? There isn't. I find that a unanimous agreement has been given to ratify this Convention. Moving to the 12th point of the agenda: Ad. 12. Giving consent to the ratification of the Revised Complementary Agreement on Technical Assistance by the International Atomic Energy Organisation (IAEA) Bosnia and Herzegovina
