ParlaMint-BA_2010-01-21-1.u31700	Ladies and gentlemen of the Parliament, honored guests, I am opening the 70th session of the House of Representatives of the Parliamentary Assembly of Bosnia and Herzegovina. As in our work so far, we invited our regular guests from the BiH Presidency, the chairman and members of the Council of Ministers, representatives of international organisations monitoring the work of the House, as well as certain NGOs to this session. I welcome all present MPs and guests, as well as media representatives. According to service information, 31 MPs are present. The absence was justified by the honourable MP Azra Alajbegović, and MPs Zlatko Lagumdžija and Vinko Zorić announced a delay. I find the session has a quorum for full-time work and decision-making. Before we move to a debate on the agenda, in the context of previous issues, I would like to introduce you to the fact that from the Central Election Commission, 15.1., we have received a decision on the termination of the term of office of late MEP Joza Križanović, as well as a conviction of the mandate of Mrs Nermina Zaimović-Uzunović-Uzunovic. This decision became a forceful one in 30.12.2009. Mrs. Nermina Zaimović-Uzunović-Uzunovic signed a statement on the acceptance of the mandate. Therefore, in accordance with our usual practice, a new MP should make a solemn statement in order to take over parliamentary rights and obligations. I call on Mrs Nermina Zaimović-Uzunović-Uzunovic to make a solemn statement.
ParlaMint-BA_2010-01-21-1.u31702	Declaring
ParlaMint-BA_2010-01-21-1.u31703	Declaring
ParlaMint-BA_2010-01-21-1.u31704	that I will knowingly perform the duties I have been entrusted with, 2 NERMINA
ParlaMint-BA_2010-01-21-1.u31705	that I will knowingly perform the duties that I have been entrusted with,
ParlaMint-BA_2010-01-21-1.u31706	I respect the Constitution of Bosnia and Herzegovina, NERMINA
ParlaMint-BA_2010-01-21-1.u31707	I respect the Constitution of Bosnia and Herzegovina,
ParlaMint-BA_2010-01-21-1.u31708	I fully implement the General Framework Agreement for Peace in Bosnia and Herzegovina, NERMINA
ParlaMint-BA_2010-01-21-1.u31709	I fully implement the General Framework Agreement for Peace in Bosnia and Herzegovina,
ParlaMint-BA_2010-01-21-1.u31710	I protect and stand up for human rights and fundamental freedoms, and protect the interest and equality of all peoples and citizens. NERMINA
ParlaMint-BA_2010-01-21-1.u31711	I protect and stand up for human rights and fundamental freedoms, and protect the interest and equality of all peoples and citizens. APPLAUSE
ParlaMint-BA_2010-01-21-1.u31712	As for the changes in the agenda, I'd like to introduce you to the next one. On the proposal of MP Rifat Dolić, who you received this morning, the Kolegijum in the extended composition decided to include the 19th item on today's agenda – the conclusion on the allocation of the day-long salary of the House of Representatives from January to assist Haiti's citizens. Also, on a proposal from the Kolegijum of this House, which you have also received, the Kolegijum in the extended composition decided to include the 20th item on today's agenda – the conclusion on the allocation of financial resources to mitigate the consequences and the elimination of flood damages during January 2010 on BiH territory. I don't think I need to read the conclusions, you got them. 3 And I would like to introduce you to the fact that we have added point 21 – Amendments to the membership of the House Representatives' Committees and Joint Committees of Both Homes (a) Dear Member Lejla Klokić is appointed as a member of the Joint Commission for Human Rights, Rights of the Child, Youth, Immigration, Refugees, Asylum and Ethics and the Foreign Affairs Commission of the House of Representatives, instead of Sadik Ahmetović, whom he suspended his term of office as Minister of Security of BiH and Deputy Chairman of the Council of Ministers of BiH. I'm opening a debate on the proposed agenda. Dear Ambassador Denis Bećirović. Here you go.
ParlaMint-BA_2010-01-21-1.u31713	The esteemed chairman, distinguished colleagues and colleagues, esteemed media representatives and guests. On the basis of Article 65, paragraph 1 is replaced by the following: Rules of Procedure of the House of Representatives, I submit a proposal to supplement the agenda of the 70th session of the Parliamentary House of BiH. I propose that we put the next item on the agenda – Considering the information on the sanctioning of perpetrators of verbal and physical abuses against journalists in BiH, with special reference to the proposal for measures aimed at preventing verbal and physical threats to journalists in BiH. In addition to the proposal to include this item in the agenda, I also submit the minutes from the 55th session of the House of Representatives held on 10 June 2009 containing the precise conclusions of this House on this issue. In fact, we should have considered this issue a long time ago, but I did not deliberately update it since we know what problems and changes we had at the head of the Ministry of Security were required to deliver this item within the deadline, as indicated, of 30 days to this Parliament. But here, it has been almost six months without Parliament's agenda. So I suggest we put this in today's House of Representatives session. Eventually, if you assess, I leave the possibility of this being a point and the 71st session of the House of Representatives. In doing so, I suppose, Mr. Chairman, you can say why you didn't propose to the College yesterday, but we agreed within the SDP Club yesterday that, because of the importance and delay in this issue, we would still start this issue today at the beginning of the session to strengthen this point, because it is, therefore, the conclusion of the House of Representatives, and not of any other body. I'm delivering you a complete proposal in writing with the zapisnik and conclusions on this.
ParlaMint-BA_2010-01-21-1.u31714	Thank you. I will not say and remind the chair of our agreement yesterday, because every MP, in accordance with the Rules of Procedure, has the right to propose a new agenda. However, my question is whether it is the only conclusion that has not been respected so far and what information about the 4 respect for this conclusion can be obtained at today's session. It is a matter of material that is needed and necessary to consider this item of the agenda. Here you go.
ParlaMint-BA_2010-01-21-1.u31715	Here, very briefly. So today we have two options. The first is to reach a conclusion that re-binding the BiH Council of Ministers, specifically the Ministry of Security, to realize the conclusion of the BiH Parliament. And another possibility is that, as I left it in this memo, we leave the possibility of considering this issue at the next session, and eventually the College directs a new emergency to the Ministry of Security in the sense that the Ministry of Security realizes the conclusion of the House of Representatives.
ParlaMint-BA_2010-01-21-1.u31716	Thank you. We at the College agree to send an emergency, if that's enough for you, for the next session. Thank you. Dear Ambassador Halid Genjac. Here you go.
ParlaMint-BA_2010-01-21-1.u31717	Wrong.
ParlaMint-BA_2010-01-21-1.u31718	Wrong. There are no more applications for discussion. I'm closing up. Dear Ambassador Momčilo Novaković, is it a replica, or is it an accident?
ParlaMint-BA_2010-01-21-1.u31719	Wrong.
ParlaMint-BA_2010-01-21-1.u31720	Wrong. So according to what we have just agreed and the request of MP Denis Bećirović, we will send an emergency, and I will conclude that for the 70th session of the House we have the next Dn e v i r e d 1. The adoption of the minutes from the 68th and 69th sessions of the House of Representatives; 2. Legislative questions: (a) Comments on answers received, (b) New parliamentary issues; 5 3. Request of the Council of Ministers of Bosnia and Herzegovina to consider the Proposal for a Law on Working Time, Mandatory Holidays of Mobile Workers and Road Transport Recording Devices under a shortened procedure, in accordance with Article 126. Rules of Procedure; 4. Proposal for a law on censuses, households and apartments in Bosnia and Herzegovina 2011 – Proposer: Council of Ministers of BiH, Law No 01,02- 02-9-78/09, from 2.9.2009 (first reading); 5. Proposal for a law on preventing conflicts of interest in the institutions of Bosnia and Herzegovina – Proposer: Council of Ministers of BiH, Law No 01,02-02-9-122/09 of 24.12.2009 (first reading); 6. Proposal for a Law on the Bosnia and Herzegovina Judicial Police – Proposer: Council of Ministers of BiH, Law No 01,02-02-5-124/09 of 31.12.2009 (first reading); 7. Proposal for a Law on Amendments and Supplements to the Law on the Public Television System of Bosnia and Herzegovina – Proposer: Council of Ministers of BiH, Act No: 01,02-02-3-97/09 of 16.10.1909 (first reading); 8. Proposal for a Law on Amendments and Supplements to the Law on the Public Television Service of Bosnia and Herzegovina – Proposer: Council of Ministers of BiH, Act No: 01,02-02-3-98/09 of 16.10.1909 (first reading); 9. Proposal for a Law on Amendments and Supplements to the Communication Act – Proposer: Council of Ministers of BiH, Law No 01,02-02-3-99/09 of 16.10.1909 (first reading); 10. Proposal for a Law amending and supplementing the Law on Classification of Activities in Bosnia and Herzegovina – Proposer: Council of Ministers of BiH, Act No: 01,02-02-7-121/09 of 23.12.2009 (first reading); 11. Proposal for a law supplementing the Criminal Law of Bosnia and Herzegovina – Proposer: MP Denis Bećirović, Law No: 01-02-5-100/09 of 30.10.2009 (first reading); 12. Proposal for a law supplementing the Law on the Court of Justice of Bosnia and Herzegovina – Proposer: Ambassador Azra Hadžiahmetović, Law No: 01-02-5-118/09 of 15.12.2009 (first reading); 13. Proposal for a Law amending and supplementing the Law on the Prosecutor's Office of Bosnia and Herzegovina – Proposer: Ambassador Azra Hadžiahmetović, Law No: 01-02-5-119/09 of 15.12.2009 (first reading); 14. Proposal for a Law on the Constitutional Court of Bosnia and Herzegovina with the Opinion of the Constitutional Commission – Proposer: Member Momčilo Novaković, Law No 01,02-02-5-93/09 of 13.10.1909; 15. Proposal for a law supplementing the Law on the revision of the institutions of Bosnia and Herzegovina, with the opinion of the Commission for Finance and Budget - Proposer: Member Momčilo Novaković, Law No: 01,02-02-4-95/09 of 13.10.1909; 16. Information on the permits issued for the transport of arms, military equipment and dual-use products in 2008 (subsistence: Ministry of Foreign Trade and Economic Relations of BiH); 17. The Commission's report on the effort to reach agreement on the proposal of Parliamentarian Vink Zorić from the 68th session of the House, held in 30.12.2009, which reads: "700,000 KM will be allocated from the budget reserve for the top results of athletes. The funds will be available by the BiH Ministry of Civil Affairs, or the BiH Council of Ministers, according to clearly built criteria and 6 can be obtained by alliances registered at BiH level whose teams have achieved success in international competitions. The funds are allocated over the year when a good result is achieved. The Ministry may also support international teams-level competitions’; The Commission's report on the proposal of the SDA MP from the 69th session of the House, held on 30.12.2009, which reads: "The Council of Ministers of BiH is in charge that, without delay, it also sets out in the parliamentary procedure a proposal for a legal solution which in an unequivocal way sanctions any denial, reduction or approval of the crimes of the Holocaust, genocide or other crimes against humanity. The proposal must cover the fulfilment of all obligations that BiH has under UN General Assembly Resolution on the Denial of the Holocaust of 26.1.2007, the Additional Protocol with the Convention on Cybercrime and Crime of the acts of racist and xenophobic nature committed by computer means, the Convention on the Prevention and Penalty of the Crime of Genocides and the Convention on the Elimination of all forms of racial discrimination. The proposal also needs to cover the good practice of the democratic countries of the world on this issue as well as the obligations of BiH under all other international legal acts’; 19. A conclusion on the allocation of one-day income from January's House of Representatives to help Haitian citizens; 20. Bringing conclusions on the allocation of financial resources to mitigate the consequences and the elimination of flood damage during January 2010 on Bosnia and Herzegovina's territory; 21. Changes in the membership of the House of Representatives and Joint Committees: a) Lejla Klokić is appointed as a member of the Joint Commission on Human Rights, Rights of the Child, Youth, Immigration, Refugees, Asylum and Ethics, and the Foreign Affairs Commission of the Representatives' House, instead of Sadik Ahmetović, whose term of office as Minister of Security of Bosnia and Herzegovina and Deputy Chairman of the Council of Ministers of Bosnia and Herzegovina; 22. Giving consent to ratification: (a) Agreement between the Council of Ministers of BiH and the Government of the Federal Republic of Germany on Financial Co-operation in 2008, (b) Revised Additional Agreement on Technical Assistance by the International Atomic Energy Organisation (IAEA) Bosnia and Herzegovina, (c) The Sixth Additional Protocol with the Constitution of the World Postal Union. We're moving on to the realization of the agenda. Let's go to point one, 7 Ad. 1. The adoption of the minutes of the 68th and 69th session of the House of Representatives You've both got the records. Any objections to the record? I'm opening a debate. If there isn't, I'm closing the argument. Moving to point two, Ad. 2. Parliament Questions (a) Comments on answers received
ParlaMint-BA_2010-01-21-1.u31723	Thank you. Mr. Chairman, dear colleagues. As you said, I have received an answer to my two parliamentary questions. One was sent here to our house. Here, I can express my satisfaction because I have received the answer to the parliamentary questions by the end or at the end of this month will be available on the website of 8 Parliament, which I think is a significant contribution to the transparency of the work of this House. I think it's very useful to the public. The second question referred to the number of persons convicted of illegal forest cutting pending execution in prisons, and in the second part of the number of persons convicted of serious crimes awaiting the execution of a prison sentence because there are no accommodation facilities. In fact, there was a perception in the public that there was some manipulation. I express my satisfaction with this answer from which there is no, I would say, abuse, that all those who are convicted of serious crimes are going to suffer punishment, means that there is no waiting because there is no place in prisons. It's only a little interesting that here, for example, in the Mediterranean and in the Women's-Dobby Canton, we have a significant number of persons convicted of cutting down forests compared to other regions. I don't know if it's the law or the law, but that's another thing. Thank you.
ParlaMint-BA_2010-01-21-1.u31724	Thank you. Dear Ambassador Martin Raguž. Here you go.
ParlaMint-BA_2010-01-21-1.u31725	I thank you, Chairman. I had two questions on which I received answers from the BiH Council of Ministers. The Council of Ministers established this at the 110th session, held on 30.12., means the last working day of last year, and referred to the revised strategy for the implementation of Annex VII of the Dayton Peace Agreement and the insurance of returns for about 200 thousand refugees and displaced, i.e. to the reconstruction of 45 thousand housing units. And regardless of what has obviously been done in the Ministry of Human Rights and Refugees, and by the Council of Ministers of BiH, it is said in one of the answers to the question – it is clear that without the intervention of the Parliamentary Assembly of BiH and as soon as possible, the revised strategy for the implementation of Annex VII will not be possible to resolve these issues. So, we have been warned through answers to parliamentary questions that the BiH Parliament should intervene. I think that the Council and the Ministry should have come to this House here with (requirements which are raised in the Revised Strategy) and what is required of the Parliamentary Assembly of BiH, to finally be adopted as a prerequisite and to provide additional funds, as is said here, and otherwise to lead the whole process further. And regardless of what is said here, for 22.12., it was scheduled for a meeting of competent ministers, entity, state, Brcko District, we still do not have an exact time when it will be adopted and delivered to this home for consideration. So I repeat my question, this time with a precise deadline when it will be delivered to us. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-BA_2010-01-21-1.u31726	Thank you. 9 Dear Ambassador Sadik Bahtić. Here you go.
ParlaMint-BA_2010-01-21-1.u31727	Thank you. Dear colleagues and colleagues, esteemed guests. I've been waiting for an answer for two years and I've got a totally undefined answer. So I'm not satisfied. I'll repeat my question again today. My question was, I asked to be answered – Is it true that the MP Zlatko Lagumdžija gave powers in the war to raise funds throughout Western Europe, that is what certain media have announced, is there this seal, these powers and how much money has been collected on account? I was answered by the Ministry of Security just a description of their affairs, their jurisdiction. So I'm not interested in that. There's an institution that... So I will repeat my question to the BiH Council of Ministers. And here, meaning, given the above-mentioned legal authority, the BiH Ministry of Security, the answer to your parliamentary question is not in the ministry's jurisdiction. And they just answered their jurisdiction. So that answer didn't satisfy me. I will repeat that to the BiH institutions and the BiH Council of Ministers, those who have that competence. Thank you.
ParlaMint-BA_2010-01-21-1.u31728	Thank you. Dear Ambassador Husein Nanić. Here you go.
ParlaMint-BA_2010-01-21-1.u31729	I thank you, Chairman. My colleagues and fellow MPs. I got an answer from the Foreign Ministry on two questions I asked. One of them is the issue of issuing biometric passports in diplomatic and consular representations. And unfortunately, what I got in response is a very bad situation with that process. We all know that the number of biometric passports issued is one of the conditions, one of the criteria to be considered when visiting a monitoring team related to liberalisation, i.e. visa-free regime. In response, 14 diplomatic and consular representations are said to issue biometric passports. As far as I know, the 54 diplomatic and consular representations of BiH are abroad, and this is one defeating data, with three more planning to open, are in preparation, and 30 are planned to open overall, the possibility, means that 30 diplomatic representations do so. I would like to express my dissatisfaction and appeal to the Ministry of Foreign Affairs, if there is anyone present here from the Ministry, to speed up the process so that citizens, in particular 1,300,000 Bosanac around the world they have, can get a better biometric passport and the possibility of visa-free regime. The second issue was also for the foreign ministry and is related to the assignment, i.e. the appointment of BiH's honorable consuls in the world. And I got the answer that so far there have been seven honorable consuls and that at a certain stage there are 30 items. I want to point out here a process that, unwarrantedly, is hard to find the right word, takes a long time. I would also like to appeal to the foreign ministry for the process to be shortened, because after 10, indeed, after 5-6 years, the process of appointment of ambassadors, i.e., honorary consuls, BiH citizens, lasts through the procedure of the foreign ministry.
ParlaMint-BA_2010-01-21-1.u31730	Thank you. Dear Messenger Mirjana Malić. Here you go.
ParlaMint-BA_2010-01-21-1.u31731	Thank you, Mr. Chairman. My colleagues and colleagues. At the 62nd session, I asked the BiH Council of Ministers for jurisdiction of any state-level institution to prevent the erosion and disappearance of all cultural institutions in BiH. Since that wasn't so long ago, I don't have to remind you of the rest of the text, relative to the shutting down of renowned theatres, the closure of libraries, the infunctioning of museums, etc. I have received an answer that is very short, very clear, very spottable and very devastating. So I have no comment on the answer, but on the state that results from that answer. Given that I, asking the question, said it would only make sense if the BiH Council of Ministers found a way to react spotily to this situation, not just to answer my question. I must say that, unfortunately, the conditions that provide for the necessary work of cultural institutions are not in the jurisdiction of the state but in the jurisdiction of the founders, i.e. the entity and cantonal ministries of culture. For any of us in this room, it's not a novelty, as it's not news, nor is it that we all at all institutions are very much in favour of obtaining ingenuity, and then nothing that's out of obligation under these powers we don't do. The ministry of civil affairs, said in response, is publishing a competition once a year for the award of large funds that are being assisted or co-financed by the activities of BiH's cultural institutions for its programme activities. So if we're a state without authority for any cultural intermediaries(?) or cultural institutions, let us at least do in some way responsible for those levels of government organisation in this country to do what they have done as their obligation and to fulfil their obligations as founders of cultural institutions. Not to be too long, I cannot ask the Council of Ministers for a better answer because it is true and because it is exact, but I do not think we can reconcile with the fact that the fate of cultural institutions and cultural MPs in our country is left to the benefit of the so-called founders. Thank you.
ParlaMint-BA_2010-01-21-1.u31732	Thank you. Dear Ambassador Lazar Prodanović. Here you go.
ParlaMint-BA_2010-01-21-1.u31733	Dear Mr. Chairman and all present. 11 I have received two answers to my two parliamentary questions. One was set up at the 52nd session at the end of April last year, and it was related to how long it came with the drafting of the Law on Salaries and other fees of members of BiH's judicial and prosecutorial institutions. I must say, I am dissatisfied with the time that should have passed to answer this question. I am pleased, too, that at least I received the answer that it is working on the text of this law and that it will be addressed to the Council of Ministers of BiH, i.e. then to parliamentary procedure. I draw particular attention to the problems faced by this institution, which is that it is necessary to address the issue of wages and other fees as quickly as possible, since, unfortunately, because of some of the responsibilities taken away, such as travel costs, separate life costs and the costs of a warm meal, do not belong to these holders of these functions and duties, which, in a certain sense, has a significant impact on the violation of adequate national representation at all levels of BiH's judicial and prosecutorial institutions. The second question referred to my request – What does the Foreign Ministry do about BiH's membership activities in the Security Council (for non-permanent membership), for this period of two years. First of all, I want to say that this coordination team, for its great pleasure, has done, I mean a significant activity for BiH, and in this sense I congratulate everyone. I also received an answer from the ministry that four additional diplomats at the UN headquarters in New York will be hired in the coming period, but I believe that in BiH, it is necessary to make sure that this plan is filled out as soon as possible that the foreign ministry, in co-operation with the BiH Presidency, has done so in order to have adequate representation of very high-quality diplomats in this period of two years. And one more thing that I think is very important that all levels of government in BiH should be done, given this significant result of the secret voting that we have received, (that is, to do so as quickly as possible) of all obligations that would be extinguished, i.e. stop being OHR in BiH, i.e. transform into the Office of the High Representative of the EN, because it is illogical that we have such a significant function in the UN without having full capacity, full sovereignty, primarily in all levels of government in BiH. Thank you.
ParlaMint-BA_2010-01-21-1.u31734	Thank you. Dear Ambassador Mehmed Suljkanović. Here you go.
ParlaMint-BA_2010-01-21-1.u31735	Dear Chairman, esteemed colleagues and colleagues, distinguished guests. In 4.6.2008, I sent an initiative to initiate the procedure for amending and supplementing the Law on the indirect taxation system in BiH, quoting members, and also led by the fact that there were extremely many objections to this law and the need to adopt amendments and additions. I've instructed, I say, this initiative and I can express my pleasure at the expedition, because after 19 months, I've received an answer, which shows that the expeditionivity is really high. But at the same time, the part where I have to express my dissatisfaction, it's the timing of getting this answer. Namely, the answer, which says that the initiative, by the Ministry of Finance and the Treasury, is addressed to the Management Board of the Direct Taxation Board, I think it is hypocritical after that absurd decision we made at the last 12th session, which rejects the minimum amendments to the Law on the indirect taxation system in BiH, where it has tried to limit the period within which it must respond. I think it was also hypocritical to send this initiative because the answer after this decision at the last session is known and it is quite clear after this that in the Law on indirect taxation in BiH, at least in this term, not a single point can be changed. Thank you.
ParlaMint-BA_2010-01-21-1.u31736	Thank you. Dear Ambassador Remzija Kadrić. Here you go.
ParlaMint-BA_2010-01-21-1.u31737	I thank you, Chairman. To my question – was the opposite of the law a public competition for the election and appointment of the director and deputy director of the BiH Agency for Labour and Employment, which was published on 16.12.2009, I received a scheduled response from the BiH Council of Ministers, which is probably the response prepared by the Civil Affairs Ministry. After several of these arguments in this response, and finally the Council of Ministers of BiH answers me in a final statement saying – The following is an answer to the question asked, a parliamentary question, that a public competition for the selection and appointment of the director and deputy director of the Agency for Labour and Employment of BiH has been published in accordance with the Law on the Agency for Labour and Employment of BiH and the Law on Ministerial Names, the appointments of the Council of Ministers of BiH and other appointments of BiH. So I here declare that this contest is published directly contrary to Article 7. The law on the BiH Agency for Labour and Employment. Thank you.
ParlaMint-BA_2010-01-21-1.u31738	Thank you. Dear Ambassador Velimir Jukić. Here you go.
ParlaMint-BA_2010-01-21-1.u31739	Mr. Chairman, colleagues and colleagues, esteemed guests. I asked the question at the 30th session, which was 4.6.2008, and the answer was now, therefore, a year and a half late, unlike my predecessor, fellow respected Remzija Kadrić, who received a response on time, therefore, within the deadline provided for by our Rules of Procedure. I'm partly satisfied with the answer, and I'm not. I'm glad I got the answer after such a long time, because I've lost the last bit of hope I'm ever going to get it. And the question was – What is the BiH Council of Ministers doing to curb the spread of brucellosis and the eradication of this infectious disease, and the recovery of the damage caused by it. 13 So, it is known that at this time when this question was raised, a year and a half ago, in BiH was in one large expansion, this infectious disease that had resulted in huge damage to our producers' stages, when BiH was declared the focus of this disease, which caused great damage to our farmers because its meat, milk and milk products could not be placed on the market. Due to the gravity of this issue, it was logical that the time of the answer would be a little longer, however, not this long, yet there is no justification for this. And it is said, in this response, that the goal is to declare BiH an area free of brucellosis through the implementation of this recovery plan and the fight against brucellosis. It's still, from this answer you can see, not done. So, yet the main goal and most important goal has not been achieved, and I expected this answer to be inoculated with the extent to which the percentage of this objective is realised, this task. I think, however, what has been done has been done a lot, somewhere, as it says here, 80 to 91% of cattle are vaccinated which is one important prevention, however, the question is what is with the remaining 10 to 20%. And it wasn't given here in response, nor was the assessment to which this disease was stopped from spreading and to what extent it was, in some way, solved, or this problem solved. The last meeting was held on this subject, as it says in response, a month ago, or month and a half ago, so it's also logical that perhaps the results haven't been summed up yet. Still, I expected more precise answers to what was done. Because I will repeat here, often at our sessions, the topic is agriculture, agricultural production, food imports, etc., and it is really important whether the state does and creates assumptions necessary for the development of agriculture and the reduction of food imports and imports. This is a typical example that the state and state institutions, I mean here on BiH institutions, entities, county and municipalities, did not do everything they needed to do and made assumptions that in this sector of agricultural production, assumptions are being secured and that our agricultural producers can be sure that there will be no more imports of this disease to BiH, what is here to be effectively, in some way, solved, cured and then we have assumptions for their smooth and quality work. This is no single producer, however strong, can solve this, these are assumptions that the state, state institutions, must provide to work. Here's so much, thank you for the time, and also for the answer that came a year and a half after I asked the question.
ParlaMint-BA_2010-01-21-1.u31740	The next is the Honorable Chairman, Dr. Milorad Živković.
ParlaMint-BA_2010-01-21-1.u31741	Thank you. My fellow Members and fellow Members, ladies and gentlemen. My answer is to repeat the issue of creating bilateral agreements or agreements with countries where BiH has its citizens. And in that answer, I practically got something that I didn't ask for, which is that the Ministry of Civil Affairs is in charge of the conclusion of these agreements, not the Ministry of Foreign Affairs. And it's clear that we have a problem in which, we've seen before with ratifications, except that they're a few years late, we have a problem and initiatives, who's in charge of initiating various agreements. Of course, in this series, of the 14 BiH Presidency, the Council of Ministers of BiH, the Resoring Ministry and the BiH Parliament, everyone has a role and a task. I specifically asked – What did the Ministry of Foreign Affairs do to make it happen? With no answer to my question twice, this time I ask the BiH presidency and the chairman of the BiH Council of Ministers – How many bilateral agreements have been made, with which countries and whether there is a plan for the next two years with which countries to open talks on the conclusion of bilateral agreements? It seems to me that this issue does not want to be opened and that we will be in... in which by 2012, we will have few countries concluded and we will have to put our citizens of BiH in a position to choose between the BiH citizenship and the country they are now in. Thank you. (b) New MPs' questions So, we have two MPs reported for new questions, three, please report to the others. Dear Ambassador Slavko Matić. Here you go.
ParlaMint-BA_2010-01-21-1.u31742	Thank you, Mr. President. Dear colleagues and fellow MPs, honored guests. I have a question for the BiH Ministry of Defence – What measures and activities has this Ministry taken or will take to help care of persons who are being fired from the Armed Forces of BiH this year and for the sake of the age legal provision? A brief explanation: It is known that around 2,500 people from the Armed Forces of BiH will be fired for old age this year. And since they don't meet the legal requirements for retirement, they're actually going to be on the street, or out of work. How many of these people can stay in the civilian section of the Armed Forces, that is, the Department of Defense? Is there any kind of severance for fired military personnel? What are the possibilities of retraining or schooling? Is there financial assistance from NATO programmes or other international sources and programmes? Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-BA_2010-01-21-1.u31743	Thank you. Dear Ambassador Šefik Džaferović. Here you go.
ParlaMint-BA_2010-01-21-1.u31744	Mr. Chairman, dear colleagues and colleagues. I have two questions, both for the BiH Council of Ministers. One question I have been thinking for a long time about asking, in relation to these important political issues that we have in BiH. Maybe that's not such a big question, but believe me, I've decided to ask him, because I can't take more than 15 shames. And the question is -- What is the BiH Council of Ministers doing to join the synchronised action in BiH to put down and destroy hard waste (possibly), in order to finally start protecting the environment in BiH? Is the BiH Council of Ministers planning to launch a wider action to clean up the water flow after the latest floods in BiH? Anyone who drives by car or goes by the waterway, especially after these floods, will see one disaster on the waterways, on a plant that is on the banks of the waterway, I am ashamed when I move BiH. I can only imagine how a stranger feels when he enters BiH and walks through the valley of any river or any waterway. It's a picture of us, and if there's nothing we can do in this country, then we can, I think that's our best interest, to clean it out of the trash. And I think in that direction, it's free to do this, I once started action in the Zenic-Dobby canton, it was once cleaned up, but it's done on the other side, this has to be an organized action throughout the country to put down and collect waste and, after all, this cleaning. I had to ask this question, I said, I just can't take any more than shame without asking it. The second question comes to the third high school student's initiative here in Sarajevo, and that is, therefore, the issue also to the BiH Council of Ministers, the issue of protection, protection and management of temporarily seized goods in the appropriate procedures, so, in a criminal, criminal procedure in BiH, it is not properly resolved, because of this, many of these goods are failing, and the state either pays damage or pays for their destruction. – And what is the BiH Council of Ministers doing to ensure that these goods, while they are in the regime temporarily seized, are managed in the best way? Last year, temporary goods worth 50 million KM were seized in BiH, and by then there were already goods on the lagers, according to some information that I have, about 90 million temporarily seized goods, in that value. These goods, due to the expiry of the deadlines, due to the length of the proceedings, are mostly lost, are misjudged by them. If the one from whom the goods were taken away, the state must pay for the damage, and if the goods are taken away, it fails, the state must pay for the destruction. I think that in BiH we can deal smarter with this issue, pass the law and manage this property smarter, for the benefit of course, all of us in BiH, of course, by respecting the rights of all, because no one is guilty until the proceedings prove that he is responsible and that his goods have been legally taken from him. That's it, thank you.
ParlaMint-BA_2010-01-21-1.u31745	Thank you. First Deputy Chairman, Mr. Niko Lozančić. Here you go.
ParlaMint-BA_2010-01-21-1.u31746	Thank you, Mr. President. Ladies and gentlemen of the Parliament, distinguished guests. This Regulation shall enter into force on the twentieth day following that of its publication in the Official Journal of the European Union. The Law on Medicinal Products and Medical Devices of BiH was established by the Agency for Medicinal Products and Medical Devices of BiH, and in accordance with the provisions of Article 137 of the same law, the Agency launched a procedure in accordance with the request of the Council of Ministers of BiH to give its consent to the Proposal for a Regulation on the Internal Organisation of the Agency for Medicinal Products and Medical Devices, along with the delivery of previously obtained opinions from competent ministries and other institutions. Although the timely failure of consent 16 to the Regulation slows down and prevents the full implementation of this very important agency and this very important law, compliance with the Regulation is not given even after the Agency's more emergency according to the BiH Council of Ministers. My question is: Why has the Council of Ministers of BiH not met its legal obligation to give its consent to the Agency's Internal Organisation Regulation and when will it finally give the same consent?
ParlaMint-BA_2010-01-21-1.u31747	Dear Ambassador Momčilo Novaković. Here you go.
ParlaMint-BA_2010-01-21-1.u31748	Dear Chairman, colleagues and colleagues. I also have two questions at today's session. The first question is to the BiH presidency, and it reads – What is the position of the BiH Presidency in relation to the statement of the President of the Republic of Croatia, which concerns the sending of the Croatian Army to BiH? As we know, a great deal has been raised these days over a statement by the outgoing president of the Republic of Croatia, and the least we can expect is that the BiH presidency has taken some kind of stance according to that statement. Since I have failed to find in the media that any position taken by the presidency, apart from individual steps by some members of the BiH presidency, I expect the presidency to give me a position on the matter. The second question is addressed to the BiH Council of Ministers – Will quotas be approved for importing sugar into BiH in 2010 and, if they will, in what way? And what are the effects of previously adopted changes related to the import of sugar? The new Customs Tariff Change Act did not provide for quotas for imports of sugar in 2010. According to some information in the media, however, this will happen, so I would ask the BiH Council of Ministers to give an answer to this issue, especially when it comes to the effects of the earlier decision. In fact, I was in a dilemma whether to propose an amendment to this law that would require the introduction of sugar quotas, since the proposed earlier law on positive effects is so written, that I do not understand that we do not need these positive effects in 2010. Thank you.
ParlaMint-BA_2010-01-21-1.u31749	Thank you. Dear Ambassador, Martin Raguž. Here you go.
ParlaMint-BA_2010-01-21-1.u31750	I thank you, Mr. President. 17 Here, on the agenda today, we have a proposal from the College on assistance both the BiH Council of Ministers and the BiH Parliament should, and I am convinced that we will, to help citizens at risk of floods. My question is addressed to the BiH Council of Ministers, i.e. the Ministry of Foreign Trade and Economic Relations. Last year, on the initiative I launched about the floods in Popo's field, the flat and the area of the municipalities of Trebinja and Ravna, this home, exactly half a year ago, adopted precise conclusions. I'll just read two of them, remind us of what we adopted half a year ago and ask the Council of Ministers for what was realized by these conclusions and to report here to this House. So, then, we are in charge, and subsequently the Council of Ministers of BiH, the Ministry of Foreign Trade and Economic Relations, by the end of last year, in cooperation with the competent entity ministries of agriculture, water industry, forestry, as well as entities' agencies for water, electricity, to define, establish, intensify existing monitoring and continuous exchange of data relevant to the work of existing facilities. These are: water stops, hydropower plants, streams, species, deadlines, etc. We have commissioned them to work with the competent entity ministries to establish permanent cooperation between the agencies managing the water systems, especially during the high water supply period in the area... And look what's happening to us now. Last year, a maximum quota of 239.5 metres was reached in Ravno, which was planned according to water studies, a 1984 Study of the Institute of Water Management of Sarajevo, once in a hundred years. This year, that water supply was over six meters, it's one of the largest in a hundred years. And now let me not explain to you, many of you, some of my colleagues last year have tried to challenge this argument, and now it is clear that there has really been nothing, no politicisation, no intention, because all the representatives of the parties who came and visited, I thank them once again, could be convinced that there are no real problems, because this country has no real instrument of monitoring and management of this important resource. I think we should imagine ourselves today, it's not easy to single out one diary, but these are the consequences where all citizens suffer. Here, we see criticism about the management of the Trebišnic trebišnjica plants, coming from the RS, not just from the Federation of BiH. To be realistic, then, there are objective problems and this deserves, in my opinion, a whole point of agenda and information that we will, and I will personally ask, but I think we should all, from the BiH Council of Ministers, on the state of floods in general, the consequences and these realized measures that we have also brought to the BiH Council of Ministers. Thank you.
ParlaMint-BA_2010-01-21-1.u31751	Thank you. Dear Ambassador Sadik Bahtić. Here you go.
ParlaMint-BA_2010-01-21-1.u31752	Thank you. 18 Two questions for the BiH Council of Ministers, a brief, clear one. – Are the talks of the entity governments on borrowing, which I learned through the media, agreed at the state level and in accordance with the procedures for the conclusion of international contracts? We had a chance to read, they're in Washington, they're negotiating with the World Bank, and some of them are announcing a loan from the Czech Republic. And the second question, so I repeat, I ask the BiH Council of Ministers to answer me – Is it true, as some media have announced, that MP Zlatko Lagumdžija has given powers in the war to certain persons collecting funds across Western Europe, is there this seal and these powers and how much money has been collected at the expense of the BiH state? From the competent institutions, state institutions, I expect a concrete answer, not a description of the jobs that are in their jurisdiction. Thank you.
ParlaMint-BA_2010-01-21-1.u31753	Thank you. Dear Ambassador Adem Huskić, question. Here you go.
ParlaMint-BA_2010-01-21-1.u31754	Thank you, Mr. Chairman. I have one short question for the Council of Ministers of BiH – When will the Council of Ministers stop violating the provisions of the Stabilisation and Association Agreement and the conclusions of this House on administrative prohibitions on imports of passenger and freight cars and buses from EU countries, justifying this to imaginary reasons such as the lack of an authorised type-approval house, because no one is working now, and the vehicles are being imported? I think this is about corruption, I think the Ministry of Foreign Trade and Economic Relations is under a terrible pressure from this import lobby that is now importing new and used cars and that is the main reason to break both the international contract and the decision of this home. Thank you.
ParlaMint-BA_2010-01-21-1.u31755	Thank you. Dear Member Nermina Zaimović-Uzunović-Uzunovic. Here you go.
ParlaMint-BA_2010-01-21-1.u31756	Dear Chairman, colleagues and colleagues. I'd like to start right away, given that I've accepted my mandate very late due to the unfortunate circumstances, I'd like to start with one of my questions that I've put together by reading and surfing in the media. 19 So media reported that for the purposes of the "Official Journal of BiH" business space was purchased in a building in the island of Sarajevo. It is also said that the square meter is paid at a very high price. Accordingly, I would like to ask the next parliamentary question – Who has approved the purchase of office space for the above purposes, has the procedure been implemented in a legitimate manner and how much business space has really been paid? I would like the answer to this question in writing, so I would like to refer it to the chairman of the BiH Council of Ministers, Mr Nikola Špirić and the BiH Finance and Treasury Minister, Mr Dragan Vrankić. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-BA_2010-01-21-1.u31757	Thank you. Dear Ambassador Lazar Prodanović. Here you go.
ParlaMint-BA_2010-01-21-1.u31758	Mr. Chairman, distinguished colleagues. My question is to the BiH Foreign Ministry. Please submit an answer – What is Ministry i.e. BiH's competent diplomatic and consular representation has taken over the problems of BiH health workers referred to temporary work in Libya by means of various agencies? Thank you.
ParlaMint-BA_2010-01-21-1.u31759	Thank you. Dear Ambassador Remzija Kadrić. Here you go.
ParlaMint-BA_2010-01-21-1.u31760	I thank you, Chairman. I ask the BiH Council of Ministers, in relation to certain initiatives, according to my knowledge, about the launch of a tender for the purchase of 9,000 computers worth around 9 million marks of conversion marks, and for the purposes of certain institutions, I ask the question – Is this need for the purchase of computers analysed in competent intituations, from which the funds would be financed by this procurement and who would be the bearer of the job, and who is the intermediary in this business?
ParlaMint-BA_2010-01-21-1.u31761	Thank you. Dear Ambassador Mehmed Suljkanović. Here you go.
ParlaMint-BA_2010-01-21-1.u31762	Chairman, esteemed colleagues and colleagues. 20 I have a very short question. It is directed to the Ministry of Security, and the question is – When will the regulation be passed that regulates the destruction of seized intoxicating drugs? And a brief explanation: The law on the prevention and prevention of drug abuse was passed in 2006, and so far, according to information I have, no regulation has been adopted on how to destroy seized intoxicating drugs. Thank you.
ParlaMint-BA_2010-01-21-1.u31763	Thank you. Dear Ambassador, Husein Nanić. Here you go.
ParlaMint-BA_2010-01-21-1.u31764	I thank you, Chairman. Allow me today to ask one parliamentary question for the Mine Removal Centre in BiH, or BH MAK. Since BiH's institutions for 2010 and 2009 are not planned for demining, for the demining process itself, it remains unexplored from which funds are otherwise demining in BiH. I therefore ask the question and ask for information on the funds collected and spent for demining in 2009, as well as plans for 2010, with a list of sources of funds and amounts of those funds. Thank you.
ParlaMint-BA_2010-01-21-1.u31765	Thank you. Dear Ambassador Rifat Dolić. Here you go.
ParlaMint-BA_2010-01-21-1.u31766	Thank you very much. Gentlemen chairman, colleagues and colleagues, distinguished guests. I have two questions. The first question, through the Ministry of Civil Affairs at the Council of Ministers of BiH, was addressed to the Rector of Bihaq University – Who, in the last two years, ended on 20 January 2010, at Bihaća University received... calls from a doctor, an extraordinary professor, a professor and an emeritus? How long before that, were the voters carrying a previous calling, and what year and where did they defend the doctoral dissertation? To ask this question, I am encouraged to know that in the last two years, at Bihaq University, in several cases, the choice in these calls has been made illegally, and only in the last two months more than 20 of such illegal elections have been reportedly made. The situation at Bihaća University is otherwise chaotic, and the illegal choice in calling is only a small part of the arsenal of crime, corruption, nepotism and politics that have become a predominant model of the functioning of some universities and professors at the university. 21 The second question is the foreign minister in the BiH Council of Ministers – What are BiH's plans and what are the priorities for opening the BiH Embassy in Algeria, given the fact that it is a country with close to 40 million inhabitants, with significant economic potentials, which was also a traditionally grateful market at the time of the common state and which can today be a significant economic partner of BiH? To ask this question, I was encouraged to meet with a group of Algerian businessmen who had come a very uncomfortable way to get an entry visa into BiH, who had the opportunity to do so in our consular, diplomatic representations in France and Turkey, and who did not speak at all commendably about the professionality of our embassy staff in Turkey, where they waited for several days on the visa. All our neighbours have embassies in Algeria and it seems that the only ones in BiH are not the priority economic criteria for making decisions to open diplomatic representations. Personally, if I had been in a situation to go through what my Algerian counterparts have been through to get an entry visa into BiH, I would certainly have given up on such a trip and it is a miracle that under such conditions anyone comes to the country. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-BA_2010-01-21-1.u31767	Thank you. I guess this is a mistake with Adem, he was asking questions. I'm closing this agenda item. Moving to point three, Ad. 3. The request of the BiH Council of Ministers for consideration of the draft labour-time laws, mandatory breaks of mobile workers and road transport registration devices under a reduced procedure, in accordance with Article 126. Rules of Procedure The BiH Council of Ministers delivered the Law in parliamentary procedure 8.1.2010, with a request to be considered under a shortened procedure. Today we're discussing a request. I'm opening a debate and I'm asking from the Council of Ministers if there's any need to explain the request? The second vice-president, Mr. Beriz Belkić. Here you go.
ParlaMint-BA_2010-01-21-1.u31769	Dear colleagues and colleagues. So, I'm going to stay in the debate on the procedure and, in fact, my debate will be more of a question. So, both in the accompanying act and in the explanation, and in Article 2 of this law itself, it is said that some, to say the critical term is 16.6. until when this replacement should be provided, when it comes to these tachographs, are therefore, to be digital instead of these so far analogue ones. And it was also said in an explanation and accompanying act that full implementation of this law takes a year. I may be wrong and it would be very important, so you're looking for a shortened procedure, we'll be 22 behind it, it's not an absolute problem, but I'm afraid it's practically not going to come to full implementation of the law. And now I'm interested in the promoter saying does that mean that since 16.6., vehicles over 3.5 tons, that don't have this digital tachograph, won't be able to cross the border? And then who's really responsible, what's been waiting until now, because we, and if we wanted to say today, here, by emergency procedure, can practically theoretically not be realized. And I created a request for clarification.
ParlaMint-BA_2010-01-21-1.u31770	Thank you. Transport Minister, Mr. Rudo Vidović. Here you go.
ParlaMint-BA_2010-01-21-1.u31771	Thank you, Mr. President. Honorable ladies and gentlemen, MPs and MPs. So, the law that we're discussing today, in fact, the procedure and the need for a hasty procedure, is basically all said. But I feel the need to add just a few words, just to answer the question that Mr Belkić asked – why 16.6. and is it even possible to do sublegal acts, if the law was passed these days. So, 16.6. is the last deadline for new vehicles. I can't register new vehicles for international transport without this law and regulations that will define... and for a year it means that existing vehicles that have analogue tachographs, during their registration, so, continuously as the deadline expires, actually, do the process. It is a basic prerequisite with the help of our car carriers to travel around Europe without a problem. For these reasons it is said that it takes a year, and these next 2-3 months, if the law passes in such a hasty procedure, it would actually be enough to do sublegal acts, rules, etc. I'm asking you to really appreciate this explanation. Thank you.
ParlaMint-BA_2010-01-21-1.u31772	Thank you. Dear Ambassador Husein Nanić. Here you go.
ParlaMint-BA_2010-01-21-1.u31773	I thank you, Chairman. Here, I answered before the minister explained, and some of the dilemmas I had about these deadlines, he explained. Although, here, indeed, I join all those who, if they did, have noticed that this agreement came from 1970. So, Minister, I know, you're the new minister, the mandate is short and this is immediately on the move and you see certain results of the accelerated answer and the parliamentary questions, let me say it myself, etc. However, it is really unacceptable for you, as Parliament, to put us in a position, the Council of Ministers of BiH and the previous Minister and You now, to mean that because of this relationship and because of the late drafting of the bill, we are in a position to deal with these things this way. And these concerns that 23 are, don't let us have the air carrier protests again, that we have, so the situation that this kind of business, which is small, is because of this situation that people can't do their jobs and they can't, anyway, a little bit of these export-oriented companies that we have, do their jobs. In that sense, I am giving full support to adopt this law as soon as possible, but I express my disdain in the way it has been done and the deadlines that have been delivered here to Parliament.
ParlaMint-BA_2010-01-21-1.u31774	Thank you. Dear Ambassador Branko Dokić. Here you go.
ParlaMint-BA_2010-01-21-1.u31775	Mr. Chairman, colleagues and fellow MPs. I urge, first of all, that we adopt what is proposed, this procedure for this law. We need him. As far as I'm concerned, it's all agreed on the content of the Law, but I'm asking the Proposer, the Council of Ministers of BiH, which is why, here, by a proposal for such procedures, where the process should be completed as soon as possible, is actually slowing down. If this had gone in the regular procedure, we could have discussed it in our first reading today and finished all this work at the next session. So, with the proposal to go according to this procedure, they delayed the statement of this law by at least 15 days. Here, I'd like to ask that in the future, if there's already been a failure here, take care of these things, especially when it comes to fully harmonised bill proposals.
ParlaMint-BA_2010-01-21-1.u31776	Thank you. There are no more applications for discussion. I'm closing the debate. We're going to the fourth item of the agenda, Ad. 4. Proposal for a Law on Census, Households and Apartments in Bosnia and Herzegovina 2011 – Proposer: Council of Ministers of BiH (first reading) As you know, at the 60th House session held on 16.9., the House did not accept the negative opinion of the competent Commission and the law was returned to the Commission for a new opinion. The Joint Committee for Economic Reform and Development, in charge, delivered its opinion in 12.1.2010, and this time supported the principles of the law. I'm opening a debate on the bill in the first reading. Dear MP, Šefik Džaferović. Here you go. 24 I remind you that the Law is in the first reading, and that today we are only discussing principles. Here you go.
ParlaMint-BA_2010-01-21-1.u31778	Mr. Chairman, colleagues and colleagues. The census in BiH, a multiethnic state, is not the same as the census in monoethnic states, because here, except that the census serves for the purpose of statistics, economy and development, in BiH, as a multiethnic state, the census also serves as a measure to calculate the participation of constituent peoples, citizens and others in BiH authorities. And that's why the list in BiH is more than a list in other countries, and that's why this issue has to be brought to a special account. When I look at the 1991 SFRY Law on the census, so when I look at the laws of the countries in the environment, from Croatia, from Serbia, and look at this law that has been proposed to us, then I feel free to conclude and say that what we are proposed is actually an attempt to legalise ethnic cleansing in BiH, and that is why this is unacceptable for me. I cannot understand that our Law, under European standards, suggests that only those who are plus or minus a year in place on 31.3.2011 should enter BiH as a reference date. All those who have been there for more than a year, and those who have left, but who have not passed a year, will be considered residents. All those who have been expelled or left in one way or another will not be the population of that territorial unit, that is, BiH. This is an unacceptable thing. There has been violence against ethnic structures in BiH, and it is not possible to overwrite the matter with rubber, and it is not possible to legalise it by law. And it simply can't, I hope, pass here in this House. We have to do something if we want to have a census in 2011, when it's being carried out in Europe, if nothing, then we have to resolve this question -- who we're listing, what we're writing, and what we have to solve is the question of calculation when the government is in the process. To support my surprise with the solutions offered, I'll just quote you a few sentences. It says, in our proposal delivered to us, it is said – the total number of inhabitants for each territorial unit is obtained by addition of the number of persons who have the usual place of residence and are present, as well as those who have the usual place of residence, but are temporarily absent. So these are the people I was talking about. Our Law does not speak of BiH citizens and our Law does not refer to residence as a key category for the census. The law under which a census was carried out, including in BiH, hence the '91 SFRY Act. the year says – the census will include the citizens of the SFRY, foreign citizens and stateless persons who have residence in the SFRY, regardless of whether they are in the SFRY or abroad at the time of the census. So, at that time, they are included in the list of all those who were citizens and have a place of residence, regardless of whether they are in BiH or abroad on the day of the census. A number of Bosnian-Herzegovina diaspora, as well as a number of people currently living in one or another entity in BiH, have residence and ID cards in BiH and elsewhere compared to where they now live inside BiH and these people would not be listed, and this is the greatest danger and it is actually an attempt to legalise ethnic cleansing. 25 Why does this offer us, when, for example, the Census, Households and Apartments Act 2011 tells Serbia this - in Article 2. The law of Serbia is said to include citizens of the Republic of Serbia, foreign citizens and stateless persons who have a residence in Serbia, regardless of whether they are in the Republic of Serbia or abroad at the time of the census. So, citizens to their residence, whether they are in Serbia or abroad. The law of Croatia of 2000, i.e. in 2001, says this - the list will include the following units of the list, Article 2, persons who are citizens of the Republic of Croatia, foreign citizens and stateless persons who are resident in the Republic of Croatia, whether they are in the Republic of Croatia or abroad at the time of the census, and persons who are resident in the Republic of Croatia. Why BiH, whose ethnic structure has been violated, despite the 1991 Law. in the year, the law of Croatia and Serbia, so the countries in the environment that offer standard forms for the census as it was in '91. year, why is BiH offered a mutant? Why? There's no answer to that question. This is not a European standard and I cannot support this law. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-BA_2010-01-21-1.u31779	Replica, the Honorable Chairman, Dr. Milorad Živković.
ParlaMint-BA_2010-01-21-1.u31780	Thank you. Apparently my suggestion that it was a law in the first reading did not come across approval. I have to make a replica and get a stenogram of this debate that we had when this agenda point was on one of these sessions. We can go from a to d, what Mr. Džaferović has just said, just read what the MPs from the SDA or he himself said in the past... don't do the same job several times. Because then you're in a position for me to say the same thing now, what you were talking about has nothing to do with European standards, with EUROSTAT, with comparisons with other countries, that these are definitions, that it's a methodology of the list. Why are you making me say the same thing I said in the last session? If you're not interested in the list, say - you're not in the list, let's move on. Can't get a passing grade in first reading, let's move on. Don't let us lose three today by repeating what we repeated last year when it came to this law. Thank you.
ParlaMint-BA_2010-01-21-1.u31781	Replica response, distinguished representative Šefik Džaferović.
ParlaMint-BA_2010-01-21-1.u31782	Thank you, Mr. Chairman, for suggesting that I should discuss it, but regardless of your efforts, allow me to determine what I will and when I say and to answer for it. That's it, thank you. 26
ParlaMint-BA_2010-01-21-1.u31783	Thank you. Dear Ambassador Momčilo Novaković, replica. Here you go.
ParlaMint-BA_2010-01-21-1.u31784	Here, I will respect the president's remarks and will not report for discussion, or I will give up the discussion, but I must say that from the very beginning it is evident that there is no will for this law to be adopted and that there is no will in BiH at all to make a list. If that were the case, says the Budget Proposal for this year in which they are not, not that they are not envisaged, but there was no debate at all, it could not even be seen from that explanation there that any proposals had been made either to take certain steps towards the census, regardless of what it meant or how it was listed. They're going to list some list committees, some people are going to do it, it's going to cost some money, whatever's being listed. Unfortunately, no funds are provided and it is clear that whatever is written here in this law, there is no will to carry out a census in BiH by 2011. I am sure, that is, according to what the people who understand themselves a little bit more, that there is no time left, and if we adopt this law, that we cannot make quality preparations to carry out the 2011 census. So the essence of this whole story seems to be power, so it is division of power and unfortunately there is no agreement. What would really be very interesting, if we were to say, here, for centuries, the government in BiH will be listed in '91. year, would we then pass the law? Here, I think it would be good for us Srbin to say for centuries there will be power on the '91 census. For years, because after birth, things will go in another direction. I'm sure even then we wouldn't run the list, even if we said so. Thank you.
ParlaMint-BA_2010-01-21-1.u31785	Replica reply, Honorable Chairman Dr. Milorad Živković.
ParlaMint-BA_2010-01-21-1.u31786	Dear counterpart Novaković said a lot about what I agree with, except for the item in Budget. You know as well as I and you have suggested on several occasions that it be an item in the budget. There used to be an item in the budget, so no stamps were spent and it was said by the auditors that we couldn't put items in the budget when the law wasn't passed. And that's the only reason you don't have those items in Budget. And on the other hand, I've called, not the ones who answered for the discussion, but all of us, not to repeat the discussions that were said here. If they have new moments regarding this law and possibilities and the will to pass it in the first reading, let's talk about it. To give each other back the question and the answers that we've defined here in three hours of discussion since last time, I don't see the purpose of it. And so I invited everyone to, if they have new moments about this law, let's talk about it. Because it creates the impression that the SNSD is satisfied with the law. We are not satisfied, we have observations on the members and the 6th and 17th powers of the Agency and on what is listed, or what is the composition of the list form, and very serious objections to that. 27 So we ask that the law be approved or released in the first reading, and then to talk about individual members and see where we can fix the legal project. Thank you.
ParlaMint-BA_2010-01-21-1.u31787	The second vice-president, Beriz Belkić, is a replica.
ParlaMint-BA_2010-01-21-1.u31788	Here, all of us that replicate, we immediately say that we have no intention of making things more complicated. Here, I'll say it too, but I'm not sure, of course, what it's going to cause. So, Mr. Živković said most of what I wanted to replicate to Mr. Novaković, in terms of inaccuracy, so when it comes to financing this job. I would also add that the Statistics Agency, as far as I know, is working to prepare the list, so it does these organisational-technical jobs. I answered the most, it's not true, Mr. Novaković, that there's no will to list. So, you've claimed that we're not for the census. We are in favour of the census, when it comes to the stranka for BiH, but in a way that he respects and treats recommendations and treats those mandatory elements by European institutions and world institutions dealing with these matters, because we simply think that optional elements are not necessary at this time.
ParlaMint-BA_2010-01-21-1.u31789	Thank you. Dear Ambassador Remzija Kadrić, replica. Here you go.
ParlaMint-BA_2010-01-21-1.u31790	I thank you, Chairman. Just an addition to this. So, honourable Ambassador Novaković Momčilo said that we would not accept this bill whatever it says. So, we will pass the law, and we will not accept what it says in this law, because what the MP, the esteemed Šefik Džaferović, has been trying to legalise ethnic cleansing through this law. There is one, for this term of ethnic cleansing, there is one real and legal name, an ethnic cleansing term for the legalization of ethnic cleansing. Ethnic cleansing, it's not a term used in international law, it has a real name, and it's genocide. Ethnic cleansing, genocide or ethnic cleansing, not just ethnic cleansing.
ParlaMint-BA_2010-01-21-1.u31791	Dear Ambassador Mirko Okolić, replica.
ParlaMint-BA_2010-01-21-1.u31792	Thank you, Chairman. 28 Replica is to Mr. Remzija Kadrić because he said that they would, in fact, accept the law but would not accept what it says in the law. I'm asking through that replica and what's that supposed to mean? If they accept the law, and they don't accept what it says in the law, it's, in my opinion, a bit of a strange thing, so in that sense, I would refer this replica to myself.
ParlaMint-BA_2010-01-21-1.u31793	Thank you. Dear Ambassador Drago Kalabić, replica. Here you go.
ParlaMint-BA_2010-01-21-1.u31794	I thank you, Chairman. Well, here, obviously these appeals don't come across reception, let's try, in a way, not to repeat the debate, while at the same time sending very ugly messages. When it comes to the census, Honorable counterpart Džaferović said it concerns the division of power and the impression is that we only need a list for reasons because we do not know how we are going to share power in BiH. It's one of a hundred things that needs a list. I think there are a lot more important things that require a list of the power-sharing itself, even though it's wet, but we're sending a message, here, we won't be able to share power after the election if the list is like this and like this. And then anyone would do him right, but then they use the hard words, as Mr. Kadrić said earlier. How can a clerk who works in accordance with standards legalize ethnic cleansing? How you send a man who's doing that shop so hard an accusation to him that he's legalizing ethnic cleansing, it has nothing to do with common sense, and that the implementation of this law is some kind of genocide. If you want that termology, so I think ethnic cleansing is hiding in those 10 billion that were stolen, that didn't allow people to go back to their homes and live normally, that's ethnic cleansing, that's legalization of ethnic cleansing. If you send a waste tractor to Srebrenica under a new company from which a man has no use, it is a legalization of ethnic cleansing, it is an influence that this man leaves his place where he lives because the government has given him a piece of junk, and under the company 20-30 thousand marks, if you want what is legalization of the right of ethnic cleansing. The implementation of a law that needs to be passed by this Parliament, in one way or another, that such heavy accusations go, I think... Also, this law will not and cannot be the legalisation of ethnic cleansing, but also, this law will not be a means to achieve some unsatisfactory goals, either. We have tried here in this House, through various laws, to end the political picture of the country, to end the constitutional arrangement, it has failed and I don't think it should work through this law either. He needs to respect the standards that apply in all normal countries and nothing else. And I don't think that about the list that, on the one hand, is the technical thing that we can do about that list in this way and through it achieve other difficult political goals that are not realistic through this law in any way. There will be a debate on the Constitution and there is a place for all other things, political topics and others to be resolved in this way.
ParlaMint-BA_2010-01-21-1.u31795	Fellow Members of the Parliament, please try to direct the debate on the legislative project, not on the subject that is not on the agenda here today. I beg you, and at the beginning when 29 first speakers said and caused a storm of discussion, application and replicas, and then came out, to point here at today's text of the Law and see if we can discuss it in a way that we can abide by the law. I will not take away anyone's ability to apply to the Rules of Procedure for discussion, for replication, but I warn that these discussions have already been seen and that we will lose three hours on that. Dear Ambassador Lazar Prodanović, replica. Here you go.
ParlaMint-BA_2010-01-21-1.u31796	I respect that, Mr. Chairman. Dear fellow Remzija Kadrić - I would not like to raise tensions and a nationalist story, to be happy to listen to the citizens of BiH, the mad citizens of BiH with our views, but I will say only one thing. I belong to the order of the moderates, I think at least so, the people around it and I try to keep the maximum of what we'd like to burn and start a story about what's right for my people, what happens to other people, but I want to tell them -- and the most reasonable member of two of the three constituent peoples will never accept a model of a list that would not fulfil basic human rights. It is the right to, in addition to EUROSTAT standards, it is the right to a national, religious and language definition. So, at least he never was a list, without this BiH can't exist,...it's a basic human right. So we'll never accept, you'll never find a single vote to support it. And the second story is that it's the legalization of this, that it's a simple demagogue story that absolutely... and at the same time I would never agree to abuse these specifics in any way except as statistical data and for the implementation of the constitutional arrangement of BiH. Here, I'm totally up for it, I mean, totally... so. And the story of a Bosnian Srbin, Bosnian Hrvat, Bosnian language, is a story that makes us a lot more, and a Bosnian nation, is a story that absolutely distances us from the story of this country. So you will never get a vote for the Census Law if it does not have these specifics as an optional part of a declaration by every BiH citizen. That's it.
ParlaMint-BA_2010-01-21-1.u31797	Thank you. Replica's reply, Ambassador-in-Office Remzija Kadrić. Here you go.
ParlaMint-BA_2010-01-21-1.u31798	I thank you, Chairman. Therefore, the legalisation of genocide would not be carried out by law enforcement officers, but the legalisation of genocide would be carried out by a legislator if such a bill were adopted. Therefore, these things are quite clear and for these reasons it is not acceptable, in principle, to propose this law.
ParlaMint-BA_2010-01-21-1.u31799	Dear Ambassador Salko Sokolović, replica. Here you go. 30
ParlaMint-BA_2010-01-21-1.u31800	Thank you, Mr. Chairman. The replica to Mr. Kalabić and Prodanović in the sense that no one mentioned the ethnic moment here, but the story started just for the essential reasons, which on the day of the census, from the threshold we have, we have in fact records of those present, and we even have records of the type of roof-covered building, but we have no records of the citizens of BiH. We have no record of those who are in that moment for over a year outside BiH's borders. I think that's the point, this is the rest of us, though, we can work it out.
ParlaMint-BA_2010-01-21-1.u31801	Dear Ambassador Slavko Jovičić, replica. Here you go.
ParlaMint-BA_2010-01-21-1.u31802	The Honorable Chairman, ladies and gentlemen. It's a replica of my colleague Kadrić. For many times, when there were some other topics, and even this when it was in the procedure, I said, "What we fear to declare is national." The second thing is, do we realize that the BiH Constitution is based on the consistency of three peoples. If there are no constituent peoples, of course the others, there is no Constitution. Is it fine to write in the Constitution of BiH three constituent nations. Who makes three constituent nations? Bošnjak, Srbin, Hrvat and ostali, of course. If that's not there, we don't have a Constitution, people, what are we discussing, what are we afraid of? Which makes someone afraid of the list and the data we're going to get so we can do the parallel data from '91. Year, or '92. - where someone lived, where they live today, so that more about some ethnic cleansing, don't today, there's little time, we have a peaceful ethnic cleansing that lasts 20 years before the war. Eklative example of Ilidža – on Ilija is in '71. 44.6% of Srbin lived on the list, 32.3% of musliman then, of course, talk about the national definition, a small number of Hrvat because there were no Otes and others. In 20 years without a bullet, without a war, without anything, the demographic structure has changed completely. What are we afraid of? The other thing, we could not all bang, so I often do that, in public – it's been killed this much, it's happened this much. Let's get the data and we can compare it in '91. For years, let's see where these people have been, where they are today. Many embassies have exit visas and entrances that went there, and not like this, we're talking, there's been this many thousands, tens of thousands, and so is this genocide story. Well then there were stories and it was said, it was about Srebrenica, the court ruled and don't go back in the process. If someone wants to expand it to BiH level, it's an insult again, it's a denial of Srbin, it's a denial of this, that. So, people, we're going round and round and I'm staying at the finding -- there's no Constitution this country unless there's three constituent nations. How constitutive peoples will be if I don't say it publicly, and I mean, I'm a Srbin, as I respect every man if he's going to say that Bošnjak, if he doesn't, it's his human right to say what he's going to say. Why are we afraid? Of course it bothers someone and it's quite clear what's bothering them because you'd see who it really is. I am proud to have some more time to return to Prijedor, which returned 25,000 Bošnjak, which returned to Janu 96% of Bošnjak, which returned 5,000 to Foč. Give me a place in the Federation of BiH where 20 Srbin returned. No, they're moving out of Sarajevo today, and they're moving out today. Is that fear supposed to be around the list, what he's going to say? The data is inexorable, the statistics are that. But I agree with my colleague, Prodanović, that this is not being abused, as has been abused for 20 31 years, only Srbin have performed ethnic cleansing. Let's see how long he lives today in the Federation of BiH Srbin. Thank you.
ParlaMint-BA_2010-01-21-1.u31803	Thank you. Further replicas. Dear Ambassador Adem Huskić. Here you go.
ParlaMint-BA_2010-01-21-1.u31804	Thank you. I'm going to do a really short replica of my colleagues to Prodanović. I'm sorry he came out. Listing some of the specifics that I don't think will be mentioned at all, such as Bosnian Srbin, Bosnian Hrvat, etc., he, I believe unconsciously, mentioned Bosnian language and thus insulted me, because Bosnian language is not a newly invented category, and I don't bring it into the context of Bosnian Srbin and Bosnian Hrvat. So that's why I'm replicating. And another thing. I think that, if we will, we really want a census, I ask you, here, he mentioned that no representative of the two nations will accept a law in which they will not be able to declare themselves national, religious, religious, etc. Belongs, here, I ask you, as a Bošnjak, to try to understand our motives, why we think we shouldn't put it this time. To accept what a European standard is, where we have so far, hundreds of laws that we have adopted here, taken a minimum of what a European standard is, here, to do so and now and to adopt the law and to cut the whole story short. I'm sure we can pass the law if... this is a matter of spite. Thank you.
ParlaMint-BA_2010-01-21-1.u31805	Thank you. Dear Ambassador Martin Raguž, replica. Here you go.
ParlaMint-BA_2010-01-21-1.u31806	Replicated representative Slavko Jovičić. He said someone here should set an example of where 20 Srbin even returned to the Federation of BiH. So, here for the sake of the public, because of the stenogram, all it has to say is that almost 10,000 Srbin returned to the Drvar municipality area, which in the Federation of BiH, as part of the County of Hercegbosan, which I welcome, worked as a federal minister at one time without speaking in the area of the entire county, from Glamoc and beyond, all the way to Mostar. So there's absolutely no record of that. A significant number of Srbin have returned and should continue to return and Bog forbid so many Hrvat have returned to RS in total, such as, say, that one municipality. There you go. Thank you. 32
ParlaMint-BA_2010-01-21-1.u31807	Dear Ambassador Husein Nanić, here's a replica.
ParlaMint-BA_2010-01-21-1.u31808	I thank you, Chairman. The replica refers to Mr. Jovičić's presentation of concrete data, his return to Predvor 25,000 Bosniaks. I don't know, Mr. Jovičić, how did you get that information when Prijedor still has about 3,000 missing Bošnjak. The return of Srbin to Bosnian Petrovac is almost fully implemented, there from the electoral unit where I come from. In Bihaq, it's also such a case that I don't list any further cases, what you've caused. Do not misuse, or present false information. And this session where it's headed, these things I've really been on the line once he checked in, so I pulled the line, some things I can't keep quiet. And don't cause such stories of a replica that can't really be kept quiet. And you can't talk, what I kept quiet when Mr. Novaković said – no matter what text he was not going to adopt here. We, the U.S.A., are clear on the census, maybe first. If there are some meters to measure how much more anyone is for a census, however, there are certain things that we need to fix. And I'm really surprised by Mr. Prodanović's discussion when he says, "We're not going to do this," so what are we talking about? That we're going to do something today when he says it's just gonna be like this or it has to be like this and it's not going to be any different, then you really can't expect any compromise on this law.
ParlaMint-BA_2010-01-21-1.u31809	... Mesić before the end of the term. Dear Slavko Jovičić. Here you go.
ParlaMint-BA_2010-01-21-1.u31810	Thank you, Mr. Chairman. Well, here, if I'm wrong, if no one's right, here, the list will tell you who's right. Here's the list, let him say, here's everything that I've done wrong. And the Cosarac has returned, Mr. Nanić, to see from your representatives who have returned there, who go public and who say so. I didn't say, they told me and you and you read it in the media. Mr. Raguž, you are absolutely right to return the minimum number of Hrvat to the RS. Calling on religious leaders, political leaders, to return people has no effect whatsoever. That's what you see. It's been a long time. The other thing, you mention the Tree, you mention Glamoč, it's quite clear in the Tree is before the war in '91. 98.6% of Srbin lived on the list and it is logical for people to return there. And I'll tell you honestly, they'd never go back there if they had anywhere else to live. So, they didn't have anywhere, the collective centers crowded, there was nothing to live on, of course they took advantage of the opportunity to return to their centuries-old hearths where they would be, again I stress it to you, the majority that was neglected in the Federation. You last term of four years have not been able to establish a Council of People in the Federal Parliament. Why? No Srbin, no Srbin. You can invent 33 of them, ask for oil, make them such or such Srbin, and Bosnians, and I don't know what kind. There is no prefix of a Bosnian Srbin, there is no Hungarian Srbin, there is no Chinese Srbin, the Srbin is a Srbin, lived in New Zealand, Sarajevo, Pazaric or, I don't know, any other planet if there are already... there. Maybe they exist there, too, because we're represented everywhere. And another thing, you mention, Mr. Nanić, the Petrovac. Well, before the war in Petrovac, there was a vast majority of Srbin such as the vast majority of Bošnjak in Sarajevo, but not in this percentage. There were 46% of Bošnjak living in Sarajevo. Today he lives in Sarajevo... a number of everything in his head, no one has, which is why we're talking about what we want the list to say exactly how many places he has. That's why we're asking for a national plea. And now you're telling me that there are no 95% of Bošnjak living in Sarajevo, are you saying? Are you going to tell me that today, there are 160,000 Srbin living in Sarajevo, which was the second Srbin city since Belgrade in the former Yugoslavia. Let's write down who's a Srbin, who's a Bošnjak, who's a Hrvat, if people want to make a statement, so we can really see that my data is not accurate, and yours is even less accurate. What are you afraid of? And I just told you -- the Constitution of BiH does not exist unless there are three constituent peoples. Well, three constituent nations know who they are. They're not, I repeat, other nations, so that I don't have an international scandal attributed to me, as I mention to the Kineza what's most of them, has nothing to do with it. But let's see how many of us are out there, let's see if we can see any other data, which we can do in parallel, how many people are killed, how many are gone. Not people are numbers, people were living beings, unfortunately, many are gone. I agree with you that many Bošnjak have been killed in Prijedor. Why doesn't anyone mention how many Srbin died, at least one, here. At least, here's one. But, well, you won't, you won't. Mr. Prodanović did not ultimatively say neither will we. We must respect the Constitution.
ParlaMint-BA_2010-01-21-1.u31811	First Deputy Chairman, Mr. Niko Lozančić, replica. Here you go.
ParlaMint-BA_2010-01-21-1.u31812	Thank you, Mr. President. Ladies and gentlemen of the Parliament. This is a replica of many of you who have so far debated and one request. First, a replica to all those who praise their merits for the return of the people from other groups to a place under their control. Don't lie to yourself or to the people. Niko one has helped anyone, and whoever could have prevented others from returning, and those who returned, they returned, and they know how they returned, and they are not the subject today. When we discuss the revision of the strategy again, about the return, we can discuss it on the subject. Today we're talking about the census. The census is part of the statistics and the Statistics Agency has prepared a proposal on solutions in the law that no one discusses. There's no need to use these heavy artillery, I don't know what to call anymore, language formulas to prove that something's wrong, that we disagree with something, and I don't think we should freak out on each other. Let's talk about the essence of the law itself. There are solutions in the law that I don't like either, there are solutions in the law that I stand for, there are solutions in the law that need to be fixed. Let's see if we can get to the real population list, and we can make sure that all the assumptions are made. So, the list doesn't go to prove 34 of us to each other who has expelled whom more, who has brought whom back or never returned. The census is done for the future, for the planning, for the statistics. So let's just see where we are, what we are, how to plan something, and we're aware of all of this and let's try to look ahead, without these hard words, because we're not going anywhere like that.
ParlaMint-BA_2010-01-21-1.u31813	Dear Ambassador Milica Marković, replica. Here you go.
ParlaMint-BA_2010-01-21-1.u31814	Thank you, Mr. Chairman. I want to say first that I believe that, given that there are this number of participants reported, after several discussions and replicas, it is quite certain and clear that this law cannot be supported and I think that we are going to waste two or three of these now leading to a variety of discussions and we are going to end up at the same end again. But, of course, I'm not going to suggest anything to anyone, I just want to say that, as far as SNSD is concerned, fellow Živković has already said, that we are not satisfied with this content either, but, starting with the principle that someone has to give in and that he has to make a certain compromise, President Dodik himself said, we will accept that the list that has been done since 2011. All those who think that by insisting on abolishing the provisions in the census, someone will not declare themselves on a religious, national, or language basis in place that the list will never be. And I guess it's clear to all of us here and give it to you guys, to be honest and open, to say whether we're gonna do it or not. I believe most of you know that on January 26th, at a session of the Council of Europe, there will be a debate on the monitoring team's report on BiH, where, in a resolution, of eight points, one of the points is required to carry out a census in BiH 2011. And all those who today say they can't support this content because there's a national policy, there's a language, there's a religious... in some of the previous situations, just us from the SNSD and the MPs from the RS have persistently called, let's pass the laws, let's have some tolerance threshold, that, you know, should be due to the European path of BiH. Well, we should do this now, too, but, well, we don't want to know. We don't want to know that, and we don't care. And then, if this isn't going to work, then probably, not even the revised return strategy, it's not going to work, so let's see where we are and what we can tell tomorrow to the people and voters. However, when it comes to SNSD MPs and in general RS MPs, they insist -- these are laws that must be adopted. And here, and this is one of the important items that the EU is asking to see about BiH and no one has said from the EU that the category of religious, national and language expression is not a European category. Yes, in many European countries. Anyone who doesn't want to make a statement in the chart doesn't have to plead on that basis. But if I were to say that I am a Srpkinja, to speak Serbian, to be Orthodox of religion, no one can deny it to me, as it is absurd and absurd that today someone here insists, says, it should write down the condition that once was. So if you want to go to one city, here, I'm going to take Bijeljina for an example where it lived before the war of 30,000 Muslims at the time, today Bošnjak, to write them down that there are 30,000 when people abroad, live in the Federation of BiH, have gone to other continents and never think of going back to that city. 35
ParlaMint-BA_2010-01-21-1.u31815	Time.
ParlaMint-BA_2010-01-21-1.u31816	...someone contests the Census Act because someone won't, they don't want it at all, because those who wanted to come back, they've come back by now.
ParlaMint-BA_2010-01-21-1.u31817	Thank you. Dear Ambassador Vinko Zorić, replica. Here you go.
ParlaMint-BA_2010-01-21-1.u31818	I've really been avoiding replicating lately, but, colleague Jovičić, if you've replicated or responded to Mr. Raguž's replica just to be last, then it's really not right, because you've spent three minutes of precious time. Namely, you said in your debate that there was a municipality where 10 Srbin returned, and Mr. Raguž found a municipality where a thousand returned and you then needed to replicate again just to possibly be the last. Please take a stenogram of your discussion, the replicas of Mr. Raguž and your reply to the replica, and you will understand. But if you continue to insist on being the last, then, here, ignore my replica, as if I haven't replicated at all, and you'll be the last.
ParlaMint-BA_2010-01-21-1.u31819	Dear Ambassador Husein Nanić, second replica. Here you go.
ParlaMint-BA_2010-01-21-1.u31820	The other one is. Here, I really want to be clear here with my replica, and it again refers to the data Mr. Jovičić made available. I want to be responsible for the data I'm talking about. He mentioned Prijedor, a village in Prijedor – Kozarac. It's '91. In the year, the president of the Municipality of Prijedor – Bošnjak was killed. The majority of Bošnjak had in the Municipal Council, today there are three out of 30 Bošnjak in the Municipal Council of Prijedor. You're talking about the return of the Bošnjak to Prijedor. There were 33% of Bošnjak in Banja Luka. Today, there are two Bošnjak from 50 council members in the Banja Luka municipality. And you're talking about coming back. I just wanted to make these things potent and say, I was in the constituency where, what Mr. Zorić and Mr. Raguž are saying, Bosnian Grahovo and Drvar are in the constituency that I come from, I talked to the commissioners about the problems a few months ago. In both cities, there are Srbin chiefs and they have some other problems that are not related to these issues that should be treated by the law. Go around the field and talk to these people, you'll see what their problems are. 36
ParlaMint-BA_2010-01-21-1.u31821	Dear Ambassador Sefer Halilović, replica. Here you go.
ParlaMint-BA_2010-01-21-1.u31822	I really didn't mean it, but I have to rephrase the first deputy chairman, Mr. Lozančić, on the claim that no one has helped anyone. I argue that at the time of the Alliance government, where I was for a short time the minister of labour, social policy and return, the first village we had completely arranged and prepared for return, secured the return of the village of Cipuljici, the Serb village next to Bugojne. Ask for more information at Mladen Lonić, he is now an MP at the Federation of BiH's House of Representatives, and you will hear from him how much we then supported the return of Srbin to Bosnia Krajina, from Bosnia Krupa to the south. You see how and how Srbin are, ask the current Minister for Labour in the Federation of BiH, Mr Radovan, he was then president of an NGO that supported the return of Srbin to Sarajevo and the environment. You see with the Guardians on Guccia Mountain and Plehan as much as we are... the Acid and Varesh and other places, how much we helped the Hrvat back then and then you'll see that there was good will. And, of course, Bošnjak wherever they wanted to go back. And then you see how good there was then a good will for people to return to the entire BiH area. I think that here we should bring down the political tensions and this temperature and try not to compete in nationalism, but to see, we should look for solutions in which way and how those who want to return to them, to ensure both material and legal assumptions return, because I say, let's say, by changing some federal laws, we can do more on the return to BiH than with a loan of 400,000 marks, and, of course, I think that we should change the credit and the law, change the law and credit and a lot of other activities that people return to wherever they want.
ParlaMint-BA_2010-01-21-1.u31823	Thank you. Replica, honourable MP Bakir Izetbegović. Here you go.
ParlaMint-BA_2010-01-21-1.u31824	Also, Mr. Niki Lozančić. I can't agree that we're all the same, that we've all been advocating that we want to bring people back and stop them from leaving. It's not just like that, it's really not like that. Therefore, the SDA has proposed a decision on the constitutionality of the people. On the basis of it, by law on proportional representation, every time we fought to be a larger fund of the return budget, to adopt an innovative strategy, we proposed a loan to be taken back. Furthermore, I witness, indeed, that at the time of Sarajevo's integration, when Srbin were leaving Sarajevo, that we asked them to stay there. Their army drove them out of those apartments. I mean, I'm sorry to recycle these things a little bit, that was it. So, honestly, we persuaded people to stay. The city suffered five or six dead every day from snipers from the hills, here, not to speak the name of the army, etc. When two girls were killed by our snipers on the other side, then I witnessed people being arrested. There was resistance in our army, because some things stop with revenge. The Fojnica when it fell, when the HVO took 37, two Fojnica were killed and a lot of Bošnjak were killed on that occasion, but the people who killed those two friars were arrested, they insisted on it. And then I was present, and I watched the resistance our army has in persecuting our murderers. We are not all alike, Mr. Lozančić, was one minority of people who, however, preserved the idea of some common Bosnia, and return, and integration, etc.
ParlaMint-BA_2010-01-21-1.u31825	The first vice president, Mr. Niko Lozančić, responds to the replica. Here you go.
ParlaMint-BA_2010-01-21-1.u31826	Thank you. This is a response to the replica of the distinguished representative Sefer Halilović and Bakir Izetbegović. You obviously didn't understand what I was saying or you don't want to understand what I'm saying. And since you don't want to understand, I understand what you're saying, so I'm going to start speaking your language now. You know what you're saying to me. You want me to trust you more than with your eyes, that's what you're telling me. And I know well how much you and your party, Mr. Izetbegović, have helped return the Hrvat to Kaknja. So don't tell me, do you know how many Hrvat are employed in Kaknja, do you know how much they have been helped, and do you know how much they have been given and what was done to them to return, and many have returned and have left Kaknja again? And don't tell me, Mr. Halilović, that you know it much better. I didn't want to discuss it. It's hard for me to discuss it, I'm avoiding that debate, you know, but I don't give a shit and my hypocrisy makes me angry. Everyone here swears they've done something to get the minority people back into the space that's under their control. No one did anything. Don't lie to the world. And we know it, and we keep trying to say it - we're not the same. Who helped any people who went back to where most of them were? It's nobody. And no party, can an individual... speak, neither party nor policy that has helped systematically to allow people to be where they went from, here, to someone else's will. So, even today, the moment I speak here, I know what the situation is. To hire a Hrvat in Kaknja, I have to call 16 addresses and intervene, which is not correct. They should be accepted in the contest, but they have no chance of being accepted into the competition. Not even 20 years after the war today, and don't convince me that...
ParlaMint-BA_2010-01-21-1.u31827	Thank you. Let's go, next set of replicas. Dear Ambassador Drago Kalabić. Here you go.
ParlaMint-BA_2010-01-21-1.u31828	Maybe he and Remzija already did it. 38 [[Common discussion]]
ParlaMint-BA_2010-01-21-1.u31829	Well, here, there's too many speakers, and here's Mr. Lozančić gone, although perhaps with some part of his discussion I can agree with. There's this truth, and I think we should really respect this appeal, that we don't talk about all the other things today, but this law. Everyone here uses their arguments, that's quite clear. Here, although I do need to replicate to Mr. Izetbegovic, because none of what he said is true, but I will not go into details, even if there was someone's effort, the results of that effort are catastrophic. The scale when you have at 2.04 every jump below 2,03 doesn't do a dot, someone jumps 1.60, someone 2,03, but they're all down below. So, the results are a disaster, even respecting that someone... and about your efforts, Mr. Izetbegović, the books are written, you know. Thousands of people wrote about this effort, what was offered to them, and in some ways I think this really needs to be interrupted because everyone's using... And then you see when we send messages they look in segments. Mr. Nanić told his part of the truth, but he did not say that today the president of the Municipality of Prijedor Bošnjak, he kept it quiet, but he said his part that suits him. He said what Mr. Jovičić said, he says, you know, it's a village. He didn't say it was a village with 7,000 people. You have a village with 10 people, you have a village with 7,000 people. Mr. Jovičić didn't say Kozarac or anything like that. And there's no end to it, I think, here, you take these couple of unfortunate municipalities where the exact data he was talking about, here, Mr. Raguž, but what does that mean by that poor woman, according to Zenica, according to Mostar. I expected Mr. Raguž to talk about Mostar, but he kept it quiet, easier to talk about Grahov and Drava or about Sarajevo.
ParlaMint-BA_2010-01-21-1.u31830	No microphone turned on
ParlaMint-BA_2010-01-21-1.u31831	Well, I agree, you're mathematically right, but you know essentially you're not. Because I wish you'd talked about Mostar, but I don't think you should talk today, and you're right, and that's where I support you. I think we should interrupt, because here this is going to go any way further, and it's not a topic, and then look at when you single out in segments, in a way you come that everyone in their own way is right, and basically it's right in one piece Mr. Lozančić, essentially that it's not good, or that we need that list technically to see where we are, if anything else to see where we are.
ParlaMint-BA_2010-01-21-1.u31832	Dear Ambassador Azra Hadžiahmetović, replica. Here you go.
ParlaMint-BA_2010-01-21-1.u31833	Thank you, Chairman. Here, after more than half an hour of waiting to discuss, I haven't given up the discussion, I don't know who took me off the list of debaters, and now I'm just applying for a replica. Here, I had a need, as maybe someone who understands a little bit more about what the population list data is for, to replicate, well, here, everyone, and this lost time, and to all the debaters and 39 polumists here who have proposed a census bill, and this debate about the principles of this law, brought down the story of a return. Well, here, I have a need, chairman, to perhaps ask you and all of us here a question in which way, to answer me, indeed, how will this Law on a list of someone possibly prevent him from returning? I'd like to hear it here, to point out exactly this failure of the subject in the debate on this point so far. And I, the chairman, ask you to warn everyone to come back to the topic because of the missing topic. Here, I will refer to several debaters and replicators today, first of all, my colleague Kalabić, who, when speaking about this law, mentioned in one of his replicas today, among other things, that standards should be respected as in other countries. So let's act like it. Indeed, if we talk about the principles of the Census Act, we respect standards as well as in other countries. Absolutely missed, indeed, topics about whether this law denies basic human rights, etc. Here, we can also talk about this subject, whether it is really possible to distance distance from some of the provisions or principles defined in this law meant denying basic human rights. The question is, of course, here treatment of such data, what they need to serve for. I am particularly pleased to hear from my colleague, Milica Marković, who is also my colleague at the Parliamentary Assembly of the Council of Europe, that, among other things, I have called on the provisions of the Council of Europe. Well, here, when I finally have the right to discuss, probably after an hour of replica, the chairman, I will, among other things, refer here to the Council of Europe's views when it comes to both call and recommendation and the census in BiH. But, here, I ask you once again, all of us here, let's ask ourselves, really, the Census Act will stop anyone from coming back? If we all think like I do, I mean, when it comes to that question, all the replicas so far have been missed. I ask you to return to the subject of the principle of the Census Act. Thank you.
ParlaMint-BA_2010-01-21-1.u31834	I don't know, at the beginning of this debate I appealed twice, spent two replicas, the only thing I can do is take away the word of those who start talking about what's not a topic. If that is the way and method, and we have not done it here in Parliament so far, of course, and we will use it. Dear Ambassador Bakir Izetbegović, replica. Here you go.
ParlaMint-BA_2010-01-21-1.u31835	The chairman, therefore, I have no one to replicate, is Mr. Niko Lozančić, and you've removed me from the list of speakers. So I was after Mr. Ekrem Ajanović, I don't know if you'll let me talk to him now, or will I wait?
ParlaMint-BA_2010-01-21-1.u31836	I recommend that you preserve the replica, and return to the place that is written here, only automatically when someone reports for the replica, is removed from the discussion site. 40
ParlaMint-BA_2010-01-21-1.u31837	Well, it's not okay.
ParlaMint-BA_2010-01-21-1.u31838	Well, I didn't say it was okay, yeah, it's such a system. Dear Ambassador Sefer Halilović, replica. Here you go.
ParlaMint-BA_2010-01-21-1.u31839	I'm really sorry there's no Mr. Lozančić. I don't see it.
ParlaMint-BA_2010-01-21-1.u31840	And ye shall keep the line, and it may come.
ParlaMint-BA_2010-01-21-1.u31841	Let me say it for the record, who knows if I'll do it later.
ParlaMint-BA_2010-01-21-1.u31842	Here you go.
ParlaMint-BA_2010-01-21-1.u31843	So I've provided very exact data, and if he sees something hypocritical in this data, then that's his problem. I spoke very specific data, because it was then a policy, an official policy, to particularly support the return of those, to the academically speaking, minority peoples. And we've been working on it, I've brought very specific data here, and I understand its frustrations when it comes to government in the Federation of BiH. Unfortunately, the way the government behaves in this territory where, conditionally speaking, the Bosniak majority behaves in the same way as the government where he is one of the participants in the government and where he creates such a policy in BiH.
ParlaMint-BA_2010-01-21-1.u31844	Thank you. Dear Ambassador Denis Bećirović, replica. Here you go.
ParlaMint-BA_2010-01-21-1.u31845	I have a collective replica, as an opposition MP, of all MPs from the ruling parties. And the first question I want to ask is, what was the goal of those who referred this issue today to parliamentary procedure? It is totally incomprehensible, inexplicable that such an unserious way can be accessed at all by such an important debate. Well, look, at this 41th moment and during this debate, there is no chairman of the BiH Council of Ministers, there is no Proposer of Justice, not a single minister, no deputy minister at this time in the hall. From all parties, some speak, it's very important, etc. Now, they show us how important this is for BiH and that is why I ask the question – what is the aim of this groundless, at some point, debate? I must say that, and that is recognised by the MPs of individual ruling parties here, I literally quote - we are wasting time and this will not pass. Because SDP MPs have been constantly warning in the BiH Parliament for more than three years, they suggest, suggest, however you will, that at least 50% of the coordination that existed at the moment the government was educated, when the ministerial and other functions in this country were divided. I really have to ask the question – why is there no coordination and why do you even propose agenda points for which, here, you say yourself, they are failing in advance in this House? The opposition can propose laws and they can not pass, but those who propose within the ruling coalition would be good, not to say it is a rule in democratic countries, to try to bring those laws into line with their partners before they do. This, indeed, is a waste of time without saying that we are erasing the border between the position and the opposition and in some way destroying the alphabet of parliamentary democracy.
ParlaMint-BA_2010-01-21-1.u31846	Thank you. I'll read the discussion list now. So, distinguished MP Azra Hadžiahmetović, Rifat Dolić, Halid Genjac, Vesna Šain, Bakir Izetbegović, Ekrem Ajanović, Zlatko Lagumdžija, Savo Erić, Mirko Okolić and Martin Raguž. ___________(?) [[no microphone turned on]] If there's any complaints about what's written here, you're welcome to say so. _________(?) [[no microphone turned on]]
ParlaMint-BA_2010-01-21-1.u31849	We really need to get an answer, here, a lot of MPs are responding to that fact, I signed up for the debate an hour ago. And I was in this current order of the third in a row that should be given a word. After the replica, I was completely erased, etc. The same thing happened to some other colleagues. It was not a practice in the past three years and we should get an official interpretation of what is now. 42
ParlaMint-BA_2010-01-21-1.u31850	It's not business...
ParlaMint-BA_2010-01-21-1.u31851	Well, it's not until now...
ParlaMint-BA_2010-01-21-1.u31852	It's not a business provision, it's a technical provision, I'm asking, if this can be technically solved to get rid of, I'm not erasing, please, I'm not erasing here. The first is Ambassador Azra Hadžiahmetović, the discussion. Here you go.
ParlaMint-BA_2010-01-21-1.u31853	Thank you, Chairman. Here, finally, and without any dispute for all those who have technical problems, and I'm so wiped out, but without dispute, I was really the first to report for a discussion on this list that's been waiting a little longer. Here, let me also state the position of the BiH Party when it comes to the census after all these discussions and polemics and advertising and members and the Party for BiH MPs' Club. We have been paying special attention to the issues of the census, aware of the specific weight of the moment, i.e. the fact that we have not already had the elemental data for a number of issues that are important to BiH for more than 15 years. I may particularly highlight those concerning economic issues, including the production of per capita, including, therefore, the calculation of general national accounts, including per capital income, the number of unemployed, the share of individual sectors, etc., the percentage of urban, non-urban population, age, educational structure, etc. And, of course, is aware, as a country that is chronically hungry for fresh capital, the fact that Bosnia threatens the danger that, unless it has data of this kind, it remains without the basic resources, i.e., to be denied, among other things, the right of participation in the use of EU funds, when it comes to regions, as regards certain issues concerning, among other things, basic development. I would particularly like to stress that the BiH Party has been managed by the fact that the census should be, but provided that such a census is carried out according to EU criteria, i.e. EUROSTAT and the UN Population Fund, i.e., criteria that make a clear distinction between the mandatory content of the census and the optional content of the census. Among other things, to mention that, for example, these data, i.e. these criteria, specify that data on ethno-cultural characteristics, such as nation, religion, race, origin, language, etc., are not relevant for demographic needs. Chairman, I refer to EUROSTAT standards, not how it sounds to someone, and as such they are left exclusively as an option, therefore, of the state that implements the census. We, among other things, handled the exact and precise criteria that define mandatory, i.e. optional elements of the content of the list. Here, if anyone is interested, we can refer to that, but what I want to mention specifically is that these criteria clearly stress that ethno-cultural characteristics are found in a group of optional elements. 43 I would also like to remind myself of the statements made by many officials, both the EU and the UN, which specify that the population can be listed without these characteristics. These officials also mentioned that Bosnia should follow examples of European countries dealing with the ethnic, cultural and linguistic issue differently, not with the census. Therefore, the position of the Party for BiH is that BiH should carry out a census, but that the census can and should be covered, i.e. it should be implemented exclusively in line with EU and UN criteria, first of all, focusing on mandatory or corporal features, and leaving aside optional, i.e. non-cor characteristics. I will only remind you of the EU regulation, i.e. the European Parliament, which is relevant and Council of Europe Regulation No 763 of 2008, i.e. 9 July 2008 more specifically, 2008 on the census, which also lays down a common rule for the delivery of data on the census, i.e. households and regulations for data submission, data source, data transfer and quality assessment. What we would like to recall in particular is the text of the report of the Monitoring Committee of the Parliamentary Assembly of the Council of Europe, which, among other things, was referred to by a fellow member of the Milica, but in a very different way, which really surprised me, because it was a resolution, or document adopted at the Parliamentary Assembly of the Council of Europe on 30 September 2008, where, among other things, a recommendation from the Council of Europe, I repeat, the adopted report by the Parliamentary Assembly of the Council of Europe, that the census of the population be carried out, among other things, using the methods of separated data. On the request, which we had as a party and while this document was on the working stage, and also on my question during the discussion, what can be seen in the minutes with the debate in the Parliamentary Assembly of the Council of Europe, the answer we received was to explain, therefore, what is meant by the methodology of the separated data, says that it is recommended to use this term to mark, or to propose a list of populations in which the ethnicity of those who correspond will not be taken into account, so as to avoid the designation of ethnic changes in the population structure that have occurred in the last 10 years. I'm sorry, this is a 2008 document, so we have a bit of a flow of time. Among other things, he says that the census should be organised (in any way not to prevent refugees from returning), or legitimateise the effects of ethnic cleansing. So, the recommendation and the Council of Europe, among other things, is to avoid the list by ethnic criteria. What do we have in the document that's in front of us? So, the Council of Ministers of BiH, which discussed and referred to the parliamentary procedure of the draft law, i.e. today we are discussing its principles, established a proposal based on a document established by the expert group. Here is the director of the Statistics Agency who has done well and has participated in this, in the drafting of this document, which has mostly included some of the items that have been highlighted through the controversy today, some of the dilemmas or some of the insistences that are defined under the definitions which, among other things, refer to these documents relating to common criteria, and in good part are discussions, i.e. their content is relevant for today's debate. However, I would like to draw attention to what will, among other things, define the position of the Party for BiH when it comes to this bill, and these are the provisions of Article 6 of this Law, where, among other things, it is defined that the census will cover the following topics, and then lists the topics and, of course, optional topics, including ethnic, or national membership. Furthermore, Article 9 of this same law states that the obligations of the person to be entered are to give complete, i.e. correct answers to all questions in the lists. So, you owe me all the questions to answer. To make a 10. 44 said that persons covered by the census are not required to declare national, ethnic and religious membership. So here we also have a contradiction between Article 9 and Article 10, and the contradiction is referred to an item which is an integral part of Article 6 and which I remind again, in non-binding elements of the list, and also to those elements that the Council of Europe referred to when it recommended that we do not include them in the list. And, finally, let me mention that the Party for BiH cannot support these principles of the law. For what reason? It is completely unclear, therefore, that both the expert group and the BiH Council of Ministers were managed when they defined these members and included these criteria. Not denying, therefore, a specific weight, some other data that might give a picture of BiH's multiculturality, a picture perhaps, or even data on national minorities, which is particularly important, for some documents, i.e. some policies that may be important in the coming period, but remains an open question that has been managed by the Council of Ministers of BiH to position a non-binding element like this and treats it so contradictoryly in this law, which, of course, opens the question of treatment in general that we will receive tomorrow, their applicability. I don't mean what it was about, but the use of those purposes for which, among other things, they collect data from the list. So, what was the key, because this bill cannot determine what was the principle of the BiH Council of Ministers' leadership when it defined it this way? And, here, let me mention that this particular issue, which is also the most controversial issue, which we have largely and strayed from the content of this law, and discussed at an increased temperature today, and in previous discussions, non-binding, therefore, the question, we appreciate that it deserves a special answer from the BiH Council of Ministers. Because it can happen that the really principle that is invisible here is so important that there might be a need for it, so maybe we could change attitudes. This is how, from the standard of standard for both the EU and all international, relevant institutions and documents that regulate this matter, we see it nowhere. Thank you.
ParlaMint-BA_2010-01-21-1.u31854	Thank you. First of all, I want to apologize to Mr. Džaferović for asking him, and everyone else, not to repeat the discussions we already had here last year and consider that application no longer applies. Secondly, most often those who warn the Rules of Procedure, they break it, and so this discussion has been much more than 10 minutes, and since there is no quorum, I am giving 15 minutes break. [[PAUZA]] Comrades and fellow MPs, here we go. There's a quorum coming in and we can keep working. I ask you yes, in the College, we've been considering how we're going to end the session today and limit the discussion to five minutes. I ask you not to repeat the discussions that we had regarding the 45 legislative projects that are on the agenda, no one will be limited to speaking except that the discussion will take five minutes. Dear Ambassador Rifat Dolić. Here you go.
ParlaMint-BA_2010-01-21-1.u31856	Gentlemen chairman, colleagues and colleagues, distinguished guests. I have tried to make my constructive contribution in the debates so far on the issue of the BiH census, and I will do so briefly in today's debate on the principles of the law. I must say this time that the issue of the census, as well as many other things in BiH, is unnecessaryly politicised. In such situations, instead of professions and rights, says politics or rather nadripolitics. In this country we produce divisions obviously on all sides, and divisions have become some model of power conquest and restraint in power. The BiH census and discussions on the issue are a classic example. Please, what good are we doing for the citizens of BiH if we say in the 21st century that BiH does not need a census and that this is supposed to produce a number of negative consequences. In bh. The public has created an atmosphere, which communist comrades would sometimes say, political differentiations to those who are against the list and against the list, where they are some bad guys for the list, and those against the list of patriots, national protectors and saviors. Without intending to derogate any right of opinion, I think those who see a patriotic and rescue mission for anyone in BiH in opposition to the census, I think this mission is politically triangulated and spent. I am not at all proud that BiH is the only country in the world that has already skipped a ten-year census period and that BiH today is the only one in society with Somalia and Libanon in which the 2011 census is still uncertain. I'm not proud of the fact that we are, in this regard, in the company of these countries, and that in the 21st century, I don't know how many people my country has. For me, therefore, there is no dilemma whether or not a census should be carried out, because today is a civilization issue. I guess we know that this is also the obligation of BiH as members of the UN and a condition that is understood when applying for a UN membership bid. I don't think it is reasonable to explain to anyone that the list of conditions for BiH's participation in international, development and other projects whose bases require measurement data. I do not want to disrespect or ignore certain specificities of the BiH census, after all that has happened in the near past, but these specificities must be the subject of political dialogue and consensus, not the reason for obstruction and new divisions around the census. The binding and non-binding standards in the census today are clearly defined and well-known and today it is five to twelve to show willingness to respect these standards. Let's at least agree today on those standards that are binding and that we have a non-binding dialogue. I don't know what fear of facing the truth after the results of the list, because of the truth, whatever it is, we can't escape. Truth and facts can be disappointed in one way or another, but truth and facts are the best arguments for both political dialogue and therapy for the treatment of society from disease division, mistrust and dirty rhetoric. For me personally, the principles of the Census, Households and Apartments Act in BiH 2011 are a good basis. First, this issue should be regulated technically and quality in the 46th stage of the amendment, and then reached political consensus on issues that can be shown or proved to be controversial. In the end, I have to say, there's no such thing as how many people we know, but we don't know where they are. The truth, unfortunately, responds that we don't even know how many residents we have and we don't even know where they are. Citizens who are willing and willing to return to their hearths will not be helped by the thesis that the census will officialize the results of ethnic cleansing, but the census can be a good basis and a motive for more concrete and stronger actions towards creating conditions for the return of those who want it. So I will support the principles of this law because it is our obligation, because it is a civilization issue and because it is a strong step on BiH's European path and a good basis for political dialogue in BiH. It would be a terrible auto goal for BiH to skip this list of people who are doing the whole normal world and who is a significant barrier for BiH today, unfortunately, in many segments and international and development policies. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-BA_2010-01-21-1.u31857	Thank you. Dear Ambassador Halid Genjac, discussion. Here you go.
ParlaMint-BA_2010-01-21-1.u31858	Thank you, Chairman. I will, as usual, during my discussion and some replicas, because I think it's more practical and productive. Well, today it has been said that actions carried out in accordance with European standards cannot be an instrument of ethnic cleansing. That's right. So there was a claim that there was supposed to be fear... cultural features, I don't think there's any fear. In order to bring about what we have done and what else we can do, I think that these European standards are relevant, and they are collected in a book prepared by the European Economic Commission of the UN and the Statistical Office of the European States in 2006. Full methodology, guidelines, how to run the list are given in that book. It is common and immediately to say, let's say, some principles, that book does not address the question, let's say, of refugees and displaced persons, because European countries, fortunately, did not have those experiences, so we cannot refer to those experiences on standards. On the other hand, let's note that ethnic characteristics and so on. The data is not binding, it is a fact, but in BiH it is a major political issue. And given that there is a expressed political will to get rid of that too, I think it can be solved, but with the necessary measure of compromise, the will needed and the way to really get an ethnological picture, in a way that is objective. In this regard, I do not consider compromise if it is said that the results of the list will apply in 2014 because they can never be used before and can never be used. In 2011, when there is a list, only 2013 will be the final results. Therefore, only in 2014 can they be used so that it is not some compromise. I think there's room for compromise on other sides. I will therefore focus on the rule of law, on the principles of law, on discussing them, on where we have the dispute. All the laws begin with a provision, both in the region and 47, which defines the main citizenship, citizens who have the citizenship of a particular state to be listed, are covered by that list. In our Law there is no definition and immediately in Article 5 goes to the total number of inhabitants. And this total population consists of those who have the usual place of residence, the usual place of residence and are present. Those who have this usual place of residence and are temporarily absent for up to a year and a civilian on temporary work abroad who are away for less than a year. In translation, that would mean, say, that someone who came from China and worked here for more than a year would be covered by the total census, and displaced or avoided a person who hadn't visited his house for a year would not be covered by the total number of inhabitants. I think that when we stand for the principle, we must be honest and principled to the end to advocate the principle. The other thing about it is the question of who it is and what it's going to determine who's been around for about a year, or less than a year, or more than a year. The Law does not make it clear in any way how it will be determined. Does a temporary worker abroad who visits the country on vacation or doesn't visit, is he losing his right to enter the total number of residents or not? Did he avoid a person who could not, or perhaps had no means to visit his home for more than a year, is that off? Whether a displaced person, who has status and has not visited his home, is excluded from the same area where his normal place of life is. Furthermore, in connection with this, Article 9 states that personal data on absent members, in this sense less than a year away, will be provided by a full-time member of the household, and that the censuser will enter those data. And this is where we come to – who, on what criteria and how.
ParlaMint-BA_2010-01-21-1.u31859	Time.
ParlaMint-BA_2010-01-21-1.u31860	I'm really sorry, I'm...
ParlaMint-BA_2010-01-21-1.u31861	I'll take one of your lines, go ahead.
ParlaMint-BA_2010-01-21-1.u31862	Take my line, I really think it does, I've been waiting for a long application and I think these replicas that have been all along, yes, I've respected it, but I've waited really long to discuss it. In Article 6, where population data is discussed, it is stated, for example, to say whether the person was a refugee. Don't talk about who's a refugee now, what's wrong with him. Anyone who has the status of a displaced person is said to be listed, whether he intends to return, is not told whether to enlist in a '91 place. years, etc. 48 Furthermore, Articles 17 and 18 discuss the agency's affairs and talk about agencies and jobs, talk about the business of entity institutions. It was said very clearly that the agency co-ordinates jobs, prepares for the organisation and implementation of the census, and entity institutions organises and conducts the list. Therefore, he performs the tasks of preparing, organising and implementing the list. It has implications for some later solutions in the article, which I'm going to talk about. In fact, Article 20 speaks of bodies – census bureaus, commissions, central census bureaus, listing agencies, entity bureaus, cantonal census committees, municipal census committees. And believe me, in all these bodies, those who are categorically for the ethnic census have allowed... only in the lists of local self-government committees is the provision that the national structure of local self-government censusors will maintain the national population structure of '91. years, if that's possible. Cantonal census committees, entity bureaus and all other bodies don't have to satisfy. So who's going to evaluate if it's possible, who's authorized to assess where it's not possible, why wouldn't it be possible in all municipalities? And finally, why don't all the bodies maintain the national structure because of the political sensitivity of this problem and this issue? Now I'm going to try to get a little down on the discussion about this time limit, although I'm not very excited about that restriction. For example, Article 41 says that detailed preparation, organisation and implementation of work on the ground, entities and Brcko District will be further regulated by their regulations, and earlier it is said to be passed by law. It can be said here that he will only handle the sublaws. It is very important, given the sensitivity of the issues introduced here in this principle, and all that was the chronology of events, and the strategy, and the means that were to be secured, and it is very important how this law came about and I wish that there was a representative of the Council of Ministers here to talk about it, because there was no hearing there to try to find a political compromise to make it easier for us here. We've got something here that's been created under very specific circumstances and that's why we have this difficulty. That is why we at the SDA Club have discussed this, and we will propose a conclusion which comes down to the formation of a parliamentary group, an ad hoc commission, which would try to bring these remarks into line within 10 days and these large issues, which are mainly mentioned, which are still, and I think compromise is possible, and that only after that, we declare ourselves in the first reading of the Law. Thank you.
ParlaMint-BA_2010-01-21-1.u31863	Thank you. Dear Ambassador Vesna Šain, a discussion. Here you go.
ParlaMint-BA_2010-01-21-1.u31864	The Honorable Chairman, ladies and gentlemen. The census is not a political matter and it should be clear to everyone. So it's a matter of statistics and a technical question. Isn't it normal for an EU country to know how many people it has and what its structure is? What the promoter has clearly set here, it is a binding methodology by EUROSTAT and non-binding terminology by EUROSTAT. Let us argue most about the binding terminology by EUROSTAT, which is the total number of 49 people. So it doesn't depend on this Parliament or on our goodwill or on our desire to rephrase what it is. It is clear what the total population per EUROSTAT standard is. We can also make different lists, to list and diaspora for some of our internal use, for our records, but what's binding by EUROSTAT, it's the only total population, so the place of stay is 12 months. And that's clear. I don't know why we talk any different when the promoter calls for EUROSTAT. It is important that the country has statistics, it is important if we want to have access funds, it is important if we want to be part of regional and global planning. If we don't, then we don't have to waste time here on such discussions. What is optional under EUROSTAT is Article 10, where it is said that one who does not want to be listed by religious, national and language membership does not have to do so. And why are we talking if it says that the non-binding methodology is by EUROSTAT. So it's clear you don't have to. Anyone who doesn't want to, doesn't have to write it that way. It's constitutional law, and whoever wants to use it, let them use it, whoever doesn't want it, doesn't have to. And in all multinational, multilingual and multicultural countries, it is recommended that it be declared according to these specifics. The most normal thing is to plead if we want to represent BiH as a multinational state, because the population is an integral part of history and therefore it is important to know the structure of this population.
ParlaMint-BA_2010-01-21-1.u31865	Thank you. Dear Ambassador Ekrem Ajanović.
ParlaMint-BA_2010-01-21-1.u31866	No microphone turned on
ParlaMint-BA_2010-01-21-1.u31867	I apologize because the professor is on this list that I have a secretary. The next is Ambassador Bakir Izetbegović, and here I read that list. Here you go.
ParlaMint-BA_2010-01-21-1.u31868	Excuse me. So Halid Genjac said about everything he had to say on behalf of the SDA. We need a list, we won't be able to reach the funds, then we won't be able to join the EU without a list. On the other hand, BiH has experienced in recent history what they have not experienced, thank Bog, other European countries so that we cannot make a standard list. We need to make specific, we need to find specific solutions in terms of, slightly speaking, a specific history of BiH in the last 15 years. Half of our people, half of the Bosnian-Herzegovina nation is forced off the threshold and are now in refugee or displaced faces, etc. And they should be allowed to be part of the list. It's going to be very difficult and it's going to cost a lot and it's complicated, but without it, we couldn't make a list. Also, the results of this list could not be applied until after the 2014 elections. Furthermore, the SDA's views as far from Prudo were that we must strongly support the implementation of Annex VII, therefore adopt the Innovated Strategy and support it with a loan of about 400-500 million KM. These two things have been stopped for now. The strategy has been downed, and a year there is a 50 decision on borrowing that has not been implemented. The SDA is asking for both of these to be operational by 1.7 this year. So, both the Innovated Strategy and 400 million loans available, so that we can accept a list that will also talk about the nation, religion and language. In that sense, we ask that the vote be postponed in the first round, to form the commission Mr. Genjac spoke of, which will: 1. Consistent with the provisions of the Law that ensure that the census includes refugees and displaced persons, that is, all BiH citizens. 2. Consistent with the provision of the Law by which the census results apply after the 2014 general elections, then agree to other disputed solutions in the Bill's proposal, and in a precise and clear way to define the obligation, dynamics and method of implementation of the Council of Ministers' obligations to provide additional funds from around 500 million KM to return to the middle of the current year. After the commission wraps up its affairs and submits a report, the House of Representatives will declare a bill on censuses, households and first-reading apartments. So this will be a condition of the SDA to continue the story in the first reading, otherwise we will vote against. That's the conclusion. Thank you.
ParlaMint-BA_2010-01-21-1.u31869	Thank you. Please submit those conclusions in writing, and we will vote on them before the plea. Dear colleague, Professor Ekrem Ajanović. Here you go.
ParlaMint-BA_2010-01-21-1.u31870	Mr. President, thank you for... because otherwise, I very rarely get the expression because I'm the youngest in this room. This, gentlemen, is a bad copy of the failed Prudic agreement, and this copy of the BiH Council of Ministers has led to the BiH Parliament that we are gnawing on each other. Here, some discussions remind me of 1991 when my wife's rickety-nanny died and now, I went to Doboj to get it up, because it could have been off the funeral book, and then that director told me, you can get 150 marks because she's muslimanka, it's cheap funerals, and if you're Catholic or Orthodox, then you could raise 500 euros. That is how some here want to convince us that they are one for the list that is necessary, which is good, which should be done, and that others are against that list because they do not know what the EU needs. _________(?) [[microphone is not enabled]] No, no, because they don't know what's in the EU. I've never seen a man here say he's against the list. But here we need to figure out what's in the law to write down. And that's 51 all the dilemma we're discussing today. And this law is discriminatory, and that is why I'm going to suggest that we reject it and return it to the Ministry for consideration, because it has sent a law that discriminates one third of its population. A third of BiH citizens are being discriminated against. Not Bošnjak, not only Srbin, not only Hrvat, but BiH citizens as nationalally committed. It has nothing to do with nationality, it's... This can be on definitions that are catastrophic, someone will say, these are definitions that are used in standards, in world standards. Well, I will answer you immediately, gentlemen dear, in the doctrine of heart attack treatment, a metoplases costing 2,000 euros is used. And now who's using her in BiH? Niko. Because he'd have to pay for a man who can't pay it, because he doesn't have 2,000 euros, and the health insurance funds, and the governments don't have to bear it, and then they adapt to the conditions they have, and they get rid of the infrared successfully with the conditions of who has them. That's why politicians have to adapt, and even those in statistics have to adapt and see the real state and the real state and make a definition in this real state. The example works, since I'm a doctor, by nature, we're practitioners. We settle things or we don't solve things. Here, I now tell you that there are over 10,000 people who live in Doboj, who have returned from exile, or if you want from refugee, call them whatever you want, and who come home every day, sleep, their families sleep, and they are led to live in Doboj-South, Doboj-East, constipation so that they can achieve certain... So these people live in their homes, and they can't be listed by this definition. Well, that's bullshit, please. They can wear all the titles you want, that they're statistical teachers, that they're this, or that they're scientists, or that they write, but they didn't do the job right. And that's why this law needs to be brought back. And let's not talk about this any further, to individual members. I don't want to talk, I'll just mention one more member. And when that definition is characterized and said by someone who's fishing, or who's on vacation, or who's on the Alps, he can be listed, but whoever's defacto lives, say, in Derventa, because his property was in Derventa, because his house was torn down in Derventa, because everything was in Derventa, he can't be signed up, although he's a BiH citizen, he can't be listed as living in that country, and he didn't go by his own will, I won't say that someone sent him away, he's driven away by war. Therefore, we cannot give up our citizens and our people now. We have to, and ultimately, if the population is listed according to this, I will not talk about nationalities, but if the BiH population is registered under this law, there will be no 3 million people. They'll have it under there, I guarantee you. I'm in the business of amateurism, demographics and about demographic calculation, and that's what statisticians know, which is statistics, that you demographic methods can come up with some kind of figure that I'm not going to mention this time, because it's not my goal to sharpen, but it's more my goal to prove some of the things that... You can't, then, let a fisherman, a man who's on vacation, a man who's on recreation, a man who goes skiing, etc., allow himself to be listed in his home country, and you can't list the person who lives in Sweden because he's forced to live there, because he can't go back to his place because he's not filled with the Annex VII of the Dayton Agreement. So, at this point, what can be done? It can be done to make a census according to what my colleague Azra Hadžiahmetović said and I think there would be no dilemma. That's the thing we need to suggest, to get back to the Council of Ministers so they can pass another form of the Census Act that we'll all support together. Otherwise, this is one law that is inconclusive and, therefore, it should be rejected as such. Thank you very much. 52
ParlaMint-BA_2010-01-21-1.u31872	I was counting, Professor, on the replica. Dear Ambassador Zlatko Lagumdžija, discussion. Here you go.
ParlaMint-BA_2010-01-21-1.u31873	Respecting the fact that you've shortened your time, after we've talked needlessly about the past, I'd like to use five minutes to say something concrete about the law, a few principles. I believe, under one, that the BiH census, no matter what year, is not a census unless it lists all those who are citizens, and hence also BiH residents. Principle number one. Principle number two. I believe that this law is contrary to the decisions of the international community on the application of the decision on the constitutionality and equality of the people in the entire territory of BiH in 2001, i.e. the amendment(?) The entity constitutions in line with that decision of the BiH Constitutional Court, which is seven years old and, I have already talked about it in the BiH Parliament last time we had similar discussions on this, that by adopting this law, we are violating the decisions of the High Representative and we are violating the entity constitutions which clearly said that the data and results of the next census cannot be applied and that they are valid until further results of the '91 census. until it is officially declared by the competent international institutions or the relevant BiH institutions, that Annex VII has been applied or that there is nothing left to do. If such a law were to be passed, I would like to inform you that BiH's SDP, using its legal and constitutional capabilities, will launch a process at the BiH Constitutional Court because we believe this is unconstitutional, unless it is respected because it is contrary to both entities' constitutions, and I am therefore surprised by those who defend entities always here, as is the contrary to international community decisions. And then you'd be amazed at those who want the international community to stay here. The third principle. I believe that the law has never been so far, so it can't be defined by a member of a law as to what the population data is, Article 6, and then the detailed capital issues that we're discussing are left to the director of the agency to prescribe them. Namely, the law must state very clearly what the constitutional category is, and these are Bošnjak, Srbin, Hrvat and others. The decision of the director cannot throw out the constitutional category of the Others, because there are political tendencies here that the rest of them come down to national minorities and make fun of them. That is why the law must..., even if the ruling coalition has agreed to throw the others out, which will again lead to you having another case before the BiH Constitutional Court by the SDP. Fourth thing. I believe that in Article 10, and I am fully in agreement with what my colleague Prodanović said, that no one should be banned, nor is it forbidden to be national and religious. But it's my suggestion that if you agree on other things, that Article 10 turns the matter around so that people who want to declare their national and religious identity can be allowed to do so, not that it's certain, unless the censusor explains otherwise. So I think we've put important things into each other's plane. So what EUROSTAT prescribed is that, and what the Bosnian State has prescribed without EURO, that is, if it is Bosnian specificity, and that 53 we do not lie. The national and religious definition, I disagree with those who have now decided to remember European standards, is a European standard that does not have to, but the Bosnian Herzegovic standard is that. And we need to find ways to respect that fact, therefore, that national and religious determination is also registered. However, we all know very well, and that is why the fifth principle, I suggest, therefore, (yes, respecting the Constitutionality Decision, respecting the population list that should be, and I don't think it's a matter of Bošnjak, Srbin, Hrvat and others that needs to be avoided, but I believe that, with respect, in order to resolve these previous principles, that the matter of the law can be a transitional provision that says that the application of the '91 census will be. the year is valid even after this list is completed until the BiH Parliament decides that the process is over and that we can move on. Let me be very clear, I don't think we're going to support a law like this. We find it inconclusive to support such a law with the intention of correcting it in the amendment phase. I think it would be better, and I agree with those who talked about it, yes, by respecting what is said here, we ask the Council of Ministers of BiH to try to reconcile what we talked about today and then the next time they come along with this law, and see who is actually behind this law. Otherwise, it will be a perfectly legitimate accusation, not only of the opposition, but of the public, that the ruling five agreed not to agree on this and that we're actually doing this all to argue about the past, not to change the future. We think it's a matter of going back, and I want those who talked about it, under the first question of goodwill, then political will and ultimately material resources. What counterpart Halilović was talking about, I don't want to repeat, but to be very clear, no one here has a full right and that without a dose of remorse is saying that he has done everything to bring people back to the entire BiH territory. I come from Sarajevo, we in Sarajevo, in the Sarajevo Canton, have repeatedly started processes, because Sarajevo is not what Sarajevo should be, the capital of BiH. It is better than other places, but those other places tell us that BiH will not... and we have no right to identify with them then. The city of Sarajevo, Canton of Sarajevo, must be the mirror of BiH. In the Sarajevo Canton, it was not done on the return of what was to be done. That's a fact. And we don't have to run from it, but it's done a lot. It's done, it's tried, but it's not done enough for Sarajevo to be an example and to teach others lessons. And, with all due respect, I don't think we're going to go far if we tell each other that our people in minority territory are being harassed, and that our people, as they are, are wonderful in majority territory towards others. That's not true. And that's where we need to be honest, and we don't need to talk about the list, and in fact, we don't need to talk about the list, because these facts aren't gonna... Don't be angry, gentlemen of the SDA, I mean, if someone promised you 500 million, that wouldn't mean anything at all that the matter would be resolved, if there's no goodwill, if there's no political will. In the end, the entity's constitution seven years ago prescribed an obligation, both in Sarajevo and in Banja Luka, that we have people on the '91 census in public institutions, so neither in Sarajevo nor in Banja Luka. Where better, it doesn't justify whoever lives where, as they say, is better. And so, let's be honest, don't go any further in this. I respect the suggestions from the SDA that are coming, to try to find some compromise, but I think that's better. Now, let this five without strangers meet to see, here's what we're going to do and try to hear, or from you to hear your leaders say what's been said in this House. If a deal can be reached here, let's move on. Otherwise, let's get this election campaign past this. It's fairer, it's fairer, there you go. 54 I apologize, colleague Živković, for not interrupting me. Right to tell you, I was just saying not to believe that you wouldn't interrupt me. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-BA_2010-01-21-1.u31874	Thank you. Dear MP Denis Bećirović, as scheduled. Here you go.
ParlaMint-BA_2010-01-21-1.u31875	Thank you, Mr. Chairman. This schedule wasn't on display, was it?
ParlaMint-BA_2010-01-21-1.u31876	Three in front of you are not present in the O.R. If you want to give up the discussion, which I would be very grateful for, I will continue to call.
ParlaMint-BA_2010-01-21-1.u31877	Thank you. The census is a regular and normal activity in EU countries and there is no dispute. However, there is also no dispute that this is not a simple question in BiH. I'm afraid this issue hasn't been approached honestly, and that's how it confirms the fact that some want to present themselves as someone who wants a list, others as if they don't want to, etc., etc. We need to figure out, when we open this topic, that this is not the country where it's been going on, in the last 15 or 20 years, normal political, social, economic, and demographic flows. Something happened here that didn't happen in other countries. In that sense, the list, if possible to reach it, as a developmental, statistical and economic category, for such a thing I'm always ready to say yes. However, the list to concreteise divisions, the SDP's response is always not there. The European Parliament's July 2008 regulation, which speaks of the census, prescribes data submission, data source, data transfer, and quality assessment. However, I return to this that BiH is a specific state. In the course of the debate, we've heard a lot of debates who want to take advantage of this list to say, I'm a Srbin, I'm a Hrvat, a Bošnjak, etc. I am absolutely for respecting both national and religious, and every other identity, but it seems to me that we overemphasize these identities too often without saying that we abuse them. Because we are a specific country and because we overemphasise some things and do not work in democratic countries, perhaps our list could also be specific and in a way to introduce a new category, so that we can list the number of poor kitchens in BiH that have certainly increased. When you look at this law, not repeating everything that's been said so far, I'm just going to look back at this article 6. It says that the census will cover the following topics. Analyzing the laws of other countries, I ask the question, but unfortunately, there is no minister of justice, there is no one from the Council of Ministers of BiH, because I would like to hear the answer from them to this question now – 55 Why is there no BiH citizen in Article 6? Every country that worked on the census says the census will cover citizens of the country, foreign citizens and people without citizenship. There's no such thing in this law. And I'm afraid there's a much deeper background for why there are no BiH citizens in this law. In particular, the question is why some insist that we have in this list a provision that speaks of ethnicity and nationality, religion, etc. This law cannot be voted by heart and smart people must try to find out or predict what the motives are, what the goals are and what the long-term consequences are if we adopt one of these laws. I must say, and I wanted to ask the minister of justice, however, he is not here, as no one from the Council of Ministers – is it possible to explain everything that happened in the first half of the past decade as migration, especially as internal and external migrations, as the Minister and Council of Ministers stated in the light of this law. There was no migration in BiH. We all know very well what happened here. The International Court of Justice ruled on this, and we do not need to have a big debate about it now. There were a lot of debaters, especially from ruling parties, who said this law should be rejected by stating, above all, the reasons of the past. I'm inclined to say that this law should be rejected, not because of the past, but because of the future. Why? In this act, when we reject such a proposed law, we should long-term discourage all potential future creators and war criminals and genocide performers in BiH, regardless of which side, they could possibly come from which people. Today, we must say that genocide and war crimes cannot be conducted, and then, after 15 years, the results of such crimes cannot be counted. That's what we need to say for the future, so someone doesn't remember 2020 again, '30. Or some years to do something like that, and then, in 15 years, someone doesn't want to list again what he did. I think it would be good if there was a consensus within, above all, the ruling coalition to do this list according to EUROSTAT's recommendations, not to insist on those things that clearly make differences here and within the BiH Parliament, and to try to reach a compromise, if possible. I must say that here I have a proposal for the conclusions of the SDA and I am surprised by the provisions of these conclusions signed by the president of the SDA Club, Mr Izetbegović. The conclusions offered by the SDA to the BiH Parliament today state that it is necessary to bring the legislation applying the census results after the 2014 general elections. This is the fundamental difference between the SDP and the SDA, and this was discussed both by the MP and the president of the SDP. The SDP has a very clear view. Until the BiH Parliament decides that Annex VII has been implemented to the benefit of all citizens and peoples in this country, then we can use the results of the census, and not like this, in my opinion, hastily propose one conclusion which is, in fact, exactly what Dodik was talking about, and here is a fellow Genjac earlier, that, in fact, this list cannot be valid before 2014, so there is no compromise.
ParlaMint-BA_2010-01-21-1.u31878	Thank you. First Deputy Chairman, Mr. Niko Lozančić. Here you go. 56
ParlaMint-BA_2010-01-21-1.u31879	Thank you, Mr. President. Ladies and gentlemen of the Parliament, distinguished guests. Here, before I begin this presentation, I want to apologize to everyone for a slightly more emotional statement, but here, please understand. We today have a law that, as on many other issues, has more political than essential, I would say, opposing. It cannot be said today in BiH that any law can, as I say, exclude a significant dose of political, so to speak, from the debate on the proposals for a solution, to say the impact on possible solutions. And in the light of the law, we have reasons, we have goals, and we have principles that are numbered, based on which the bill was made. According to these arguments, the legislator has generally stated that he respects or respects European standards in the making of this law, although in one place, perhaps not too prominent, each country says that it is primarily carrying out a list for its own needs. So, I stress, the list is done primarily for its own purposes. Defending European standards or protecting beyond European standards to avoid writing down something which, here, I will say, since I am not an expert, I am not an expert on statistical issues, and even for a census, by nature things should be listed. I must agree with all those who agree that the BiH census cannot bypass the BiH census. It's just something that's not going, I mean, what are we gonna list? We'll list everything but our own citizens, it's illogical for me, so we'll be in a position to have more citizens than residents. I may, as a layman for these things, experience the notion of a resident, even with the notion of a citizen of a country, possibly, I say. I think that, if we avoid fierce politics, a solution can be reached that will satisfy the needs that make it clear that one of the fundamentals for the adoption of social, development and economic policies is. So, to determine the real state of things that we have, which we have in BiH, the basis of which we could make any plans, and here, three are listed here, so to speak, policies – economic, social and development policy. Now, I'm only going to stay on one of these policies called social policy. How will we make social policies if we do not have in these statistical indicators BiH citizens who are not in BiH today? We cannot ban any act, not by any development programme, from restricting the right of these citizens to decide in 30 or 50 years to say, to come to their heads, I am going to live in BiH, however. We must predict that in our social policies. So if we don't predict it, it'll never happen. We'll get to the point that one day maybe we'll ban it, that we'll say OK, who's not here, he's gone. So I don't think it's an uncompromising question with European standards. I think it's two things that make it more peaceful. If we say that we are doing, first of all, a list of BiH citizens, and then we can separate BiH citizens who are constantly resident, the category is constantly inhabited, give it a definition of what is the definition, but are citizens of BiH who, for any reason, do not belong to the category of permanent residence in BiH, because they are citizens of BiH, regardless of whether they are not constantly resident in BiH. I think it's just something we need to know about planning. The second question that seems to be irrelevant, but it seems to me, it determines a lot of things and the content of the law itself, is the question of the name of the law. The name of the Law reads – Law on Census in 57 BiH. We, if logically interpret the title of the Law now, then it turns out that we should only list what is in BiH. I'm deliberately simplifying this to you, so to speak. So, if the law, the name of the law, were changed and said the Law on the BiH census, I think we would rule out, maybe, I don't know, maybe I'm reading wrong, but in order for anyone to never misread this law, there is no, I mean, need to burden this possibility, to say, to misread what the goal is and what the need of this law is. To be honest, I have to say, these last few discussions, without a doubt, were agreed by me or someone with the debates, they finally started talking about the law itself. So, I think, too, if we were to discuss the law like this, we, regardless of the seemingly great conflict, can pass this law, whether, I'm not sure I'm honest, through the amendments to the existing text of the law, maybe that, but I think there's going to be a lot of them. Or through the possibility of leaving for a while, based on these discussions that were today or which might still be, it will likely be heard in another House of the Parliamentary Assembly of BiH, that one might try to make a solution which, I say again, seems to me that the thinking is not as opposed as it may be from the very reasonings of some discussions to conclude here. I don't think anyone should mind writing BiH citizens, I don't think anyone should mind writing those who are displaced, I don't think they should mind writing down those who are constantly populated. These kind of household categories, they're standard categories, so it seems to me, there's a lot more about which we can achieve agreement than what rules out such an option. Well, here, I don't have a concrete proposal, but I call on everyone to think, so maybe until the end of the debate on this law, or by the end of today, we come up with some smart solutions, some compromise ones, so we can really pass the law, and we can make a list of the population that won't lead to anything we've mentioned today as potential dangers. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-BA_2010-01-21-1.u31880	Thank you. Dear Ambassador Savo Erić. Here you go.
ParlaMint-BA_2010-01-21-1.u31881	Thank you, Madam Chairman. Dear colleagues and colleagues, esteemed guests. I'm really gonna try to be brief. After three hours of politicizing, if we keep politicizing, we're not going to pass the law and we could have knocked it down, so, through a few sentences, every club should turn around and keep working. So that was a smarter story. If this politicization has resulted in this law being complemented through amendments, so we'll have more debate, I'm joining that team, and I really think the law is necessary, if we're looking at the future. If we want to go back in time, then we'll come back easily. You see how skillfully we do it, and then we lose three hours of empty talk. And what's evident, everything you mentioned, both Europeans and countries in the environment, means they have a census and they know how many residents they have. And we know, every municipality knows how many people there are, how many Srbin, Hrvat, Bošnjak there are, and we can collect that in 24 hours from the field and have that information if we want to. But since we won't, I guess that's the problem. 58 In order for me not to open this empty story of the future now, I would turn my attention again, and last time I said, we need the population number, now to write them down because they'll run away until the next round a lot more here, and when we realize how much they owe, and we're going to owe the population to the head, there will be many more. That's one question. Second, those who are abroad will not think to return, and most of them have checked out. You know they're not BiH citizens, but they've taken the citizenship of America, Canada, etc., but it's a little bit of a problem that they're still on the ballots, so I guess we're going to kind of go through it this year in October, so we're going to try to find another story. And for that reason, I'm joining the law with the amendments we've been talking about. I think it's our only way and we wouldn't have come into a position if we hadn't done anything, which we should have. And you promised, if you remember, two years ago we talked about this topic, that we would pass the law, and that we would definitely come into a position per capita to design an economic story and debt that should be discussed most, maybe three sessions should be scheduled to discuss it because our children will not be able to discuss it later. Thank you.
ParlaMint-BA_2010-01-21-1.u31882	Thank you. Dear Ambassador Mirko Okolić. Here you go.
ParlaMint-BA_2010-01-21-1.u31883	Thank you, Mr. Chairman. Since I was justifiably absent and if I hadn't followed the debate, I wouldn't be able to take the discussion, so I'm going to give up. Thank you.
ParlaMint-BA_2010-01-21-1.u31884	Thank you. Dear Ambassador Martin Raguž. Here you go.
ParlaMint-BA_2010-01-21-1.u31885	Thank you. Not to repeat enough of the debate that was, I will try to focus as much as possible, if we really want to get the law, a very important law that should serve to identify the real situation, to define strategies and to apply to very important funds without which this country cannot, and that is a very important condition, I know. However, as usual, on any sensitive issue, legal solutions are used here for non-transparent political positions and the articulation of certain policies, so this law may be most drastically seen. So I suggest, if all those who loudly advocate the adoption of this law, what should be welcomed, of course, and do everything possible, if they sincerely care to use this List Act in this respect, then, in the principles of this law, it should be very clear that the results of this census will not be applied to the establishment of authorities at all levels in BiH until a new Constitution is adopted and a thorough constitutional reform is implemented. It's an honest offer to everyone in the RS, and to these... and to the state, and to the people, and to the refugees, and to capture all citizens no matter where they are, what we've heard from colleagues before and from clubs, no matter where they are in the world, these are people who can't be around. And here's the deal. The rest of the profession, EUROSTAT, rules, principles, we cannot escape even from the character of this country, it is multiethnic. Now I mean, we can't just say rhetorically that this is a multiethnic country, and when we need to determine the true state of multiethnicity, we avoid bringing it in here. I don't think it was, that's the quality of BiH, that we both know that dimension and item, how many people who plead, of course voluntarily, no one should be forced. But no one can or should be denied that possibility. And I think we're close to a solution. Everything else would mean, (always open the possibility) to say that this project will legally be used to legalise the existing state with which some are satisfied, some are not. I'm not going to go into reasons or apply now, but the fact is that it would be a way out of this situation and open up the possibility that this country is going to complete the return process. Here, we couldn't, we're not going back, we're not going to politicize, we heard in the debate today, I'm not going to do any negative political... I'm not talking today, I'm just talking numbers, I didn't say why these people came back, or why they didn't, etc. But the fact is that over 200,000 people are still waiting for their return. These are official data from the BiH Council of Ministers' Ministry of Human Rights and Refugees. The fact that 50 thousand housing facilities, the fact that we've come to the conclusion that we've additionally secured 500 million KM funds to give this process real content, not just to talk about it. And under these conditions, I don't think it's a bad idea to put this back and form, if we have to, and the ad hoc body here by representatives of all parties, not to break the law, but to allow these basics to be incorporated into the law and to go towards solving things, rather than further tightening. But I think that we, HDZ 1990, can only be included in this clause that will clearly define what they can reflect and apply the results of the list, under these conditions we can support further entry into the procedure. Thank you.
ParlaMint-BA_2010-01-21-1.u31886	Thank you. Dear Ambassador Sadik Bahtić, discussion. Here you go.
ParlaMint-BA_2010-01-21-1.u31887	Thank you. The proposed law, in my opinion, is bad, discriminatory because it ignores all categories of population and does not comply with European standards and principles, and contrary to the BiH Constitution, Article 3. In this proposal for a list law, there's no list of bh. Diaspora. Apart from the diaspora, all BiH citizens who have been out of BiH for more than a year are excluded. The census law should cover all categories of the population in '91. years, and that means all BiH citizens no matter where they live, outside or in BiH. My colleague said that the country in the world is disowning its population, except BiH, and apparently there are certain goals behind it. And I am in favour of the list, I understand the importance of the list from the aspect of statistics, project planning, access to funds, but I am not for the ethnic principle because these are not the views of EUROSTAT which clearly says that ethnic criteria are not mandatory and BiH does not have to apply them. If this law was passed, as proposed, then Annex VII would be abolished, and we know how long it's been implemented. I would also look back on these conclusions of the SDA Club that are unacceptable to me. I also have “9 in front of me. The regular session of the SDA General Board in Brcko is the date of 20 September 2008, so, a year and three months ago, where they reached their conclusion, it is their largest body – the SDA supports the census with all relevant economic and social indicators and without a declaration of ethnic, religious and linguistic specifics. He literally adopted it on the Brcko main board. And here, I fell for my eye, yesterday was a session of the Presidency, today we read in the press conclusions of the Presidency where it is said that these three conclusions, that the list includes refugees and displaced persons, i.e. all BiH citizens, which I think is OK. To ensure an additional 500 million by the middle of this year. It's inconclusive first, and there's no money, and if it were an effect, it'd be also very bad, small. And the census results apply after the 2014 general elections, and says the full implementation of the Annex VII Dayton Agreement. Here, they changed their minds after a year and three months, and since yesterday they've changed their minds, now they're giving us the conclusion where they kicked this out -- and the full implementation of Annex VII, it's not in these conclusions. So it didn't last a day, changed its mind. Thank you.
ParlaMint-BA_2010-01-21-1.u31888	Next is Ambassador Slavko Jovičić, discussion. Here you go.
ParlaMint-BA_2010-01-21-1.u31889	The Honorable Chairman, ladies and gentlemen. First I'll start with one fact, and the fact is the only truth. Never has any BiH institutions, and the only one responsible for the BiH Parliament, verified the results of the '91 census. years, never. And this country has been existing for 20 almost years right on the '91 list. A year. Whatever we were supposed to pass, some law or constitution, change, amendment, this, that, it was all about the '91 census. A year. But if I didn't play with words so someone misread me, it's not true what I want or what I think, or what someone else wants, and I don't think it is, and he thinks that I don't think like him and that would tie the circuit, but this is a fact. It's a '91 census. For years, no one has ever verified and he would, according to all the normal international ones, as we always say, be invalid with some oatmeals, standards. What do we do now? 20 years have passed, lived by it, today I found invalid. I've established. But that's right. Now, are we even taking care of deadlines today? If the list is going to be in 2018, I think we're going to get to this. Do we know what kind of work it is, do we have to run a test list, do we get technical possibilities, all assumptions, machines, people, this, that? This isn't a 61-year-old student list in elementary school, and it's not ten days away, it's a class. This is a huge job. I'm not a pessimist or an optimist, I'm always looking to be realistic. Someone mentioned today, it seems to me Mr. Erić, I agree, we lost three hours. If we'd lost 15 sessions on this subject, we'd probably have repeated the same story today. This is not a waste of time, but it is obvious that we are spinning around and are constantly looking for the application of some European international regulations, which is not applicable here. It is easy to apply in Germany a list, when they are a one-national state, so there does not ask whether you are a citizen of the BIH or not, you respect the Constitution of Germany and there are mostly most Nijemac, and here they are not, there are no people of the majority. And maybe that's luck. Secondly, when I was talking about those census results, I know, maybe, here I am going to take myself for granted almost every municipality, maybe I'm wrong about that data, but today Mr. Nanić said '91. The year in Banja Luka was 34, it seems to me, since musliman, when I speak of national determination, today, of course, Bošnjak, which I have great respect for. That's not true. Of the 198,000 censused Banjalučan, there were 15.1% musliman and 15.2% Hrvat and 16 others. Someone was talking about the others here today. Niko one ignores it, but in all of BiH, 1.2% were national minorities, others. Of course, there were those who were undetermined, so there was, you know, a lot of things about not reminding you. But today there cannot be a national minority unrecognized in the Constitution, a Bosanac, and it is the Bošnjak. What companies are here in Sarajevo, not to speak now. And it's all a list. BH TV, for which we have been fighting for years, 11.2% of Bosanac are working, and all Bošnjak are. And who are they going to cheat on? Us, is it someone else? But you can't play like that. I agree with all the discussions, with all my colleagues, let's, as I keep calling, to respect each other, to be honest, and even if we disagree, I am proud that this is a tolerated parliament. I've never seen anyone throw a shoe, I guess he's sorry for his shoes, of course, on me. And if we disagree, let's make a deal. Let's form everything possible, commission, home, Council of Ministers of BiH to include, but let's see. But I'm going back to that. Are we going to get to these deadlines? Here's the director here, the agency, we're not gonna make it to the deadlines, and we're gonna get the law maybe somewhere before the end of the term, or maybe by June, we're all late. So what do we list? When do we get there? So, to come back for this little time, gentlemen, I'm neither pessimistic nor optimistic, to have another hundred sessions about this we won't agree on, but we need a list. We need it because, I repeat, no one repeats it, it seems to me, we don't have people, the Constitution of this country if there are no constituent peoples. So you fight as much as you don't want to sign up, but let me write down how I want to and someone else. Can we do that? The other one will say no, and we keep calling the '91 list. years, and I've already told you he's invalid. Invalid, no one verified it. What do we do now? Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-BA_2010-01-21-1.u31890	Thank you. Dear Ambassador Ekrem Ajanović, replica. Here you go. 62
ParlaMint-BA_2010-01-21-1.u31891	I'm going to replicate this predecessor for a little while. It's not true that there's no checklist from '91. A year. I was an MP at the time and he was fully verified and even verified in Yugoslavia, where I was also an MP. And secondly, that census is... _________(?) [[no microphone turned on]] ...wait, wait, slow, slow, that census was also the basis of the Lisbon Agreement signed in Portugal.
ParlaMint-BA_2010-01-21-1.u31893	Thank you. Dear Ambassador Velimir Jukić. Here you go.
ParlaMint-BA_2010-01-21-1.u31894	Thank you, Mr. President. One part of this debate I was away, so I apologize, but I had an appointment. Still, so I missed hearing everything that's been said here, however, I'm going to say about this law, no matter what it may be already said. Since '91. In the last census of the population of Yugoslavia and BiH, which has been done, it has been a long time and indeed, bearing in mind this fact, the need is imposed, as well as standards in most countries of Europe, including the world, that every 10 or 15 years, and usually 10, the census is conducted. The need for a census and what is still listed is not to be spoken of. I absolutely agree that it is necessary to do so in BiH. But what is a fact, we all agree here, which is that since the last census in BiH, significant changes and violent changes in the demographic structure have occurred, in certain parts of this country very drastically, but there has been a change in the structure of the population throughout BiH as a state. Of course, because of this fact, this question is particularly sensitive. We heard it here from the debates, and that's why I believe that the shortcomings of this law, these solutions in the law, are precisely not respecting these very important facts. And that's why, here, even a little bit in the dilemma is it possible to accept these solutions that are offered at the level of principle. Why? Because here some things are, in fact, being solved at the level of principle, and only then are these principles being worked out through certain solutions in order to have their feasibility and to respond to that basic purpose and purpose, which are determined by principles. And here I think very specifically of an important principle that is not even mentioned here, where the principles are not mentioned, but it is understood, which is the principle of coverage, or what people are, citizens who are included in the list. And that seems to be the most important question. I don't think this solution is good. In fact, here we introduce instead of two concepts of two categories, which are 63 citizenship and residence which are the basis in most countries in the environment, in all countries, but also in Europe. We don't have those categories at all. We have no concepts like those of basics, who are they, who are citizens being listed, not to say that they are objects or subject to a list. So this needs to be introduced and it really needs to be a first condition, or standard, citizenship of BiH. So we list the citizens of BiH and others who live here, but primarily the citizens of BiH. Secondly, the same question here is the usual place of residence, etc., so a little description of what it is and so, I think you should, you can say it that way, but so far it's been called the residence and this term, as a category, needs to be specified and said what is the residence, which is proven to be, or what is being challenged, etc. Of course, in this section when it comes to citizens, it also includes our citizens who are temporarily not living in BiH for various reasons, especially those who, contrary to their will, are driven out of BiH and are not living in BiH because of the force of opportunity. And I think that one of the essential preconditions that we'd like to have a quality and this little bit colder conversation about this issue is that we also discuss the question of fulfilling Annex VII, that is, the return of refugees to their pre-war addresses. And I think that it is also necessary to inform here what stage an innovative and revised return strategy, the extent to which it is realistic to expect and how quickly the funds needed to implement this strategy can be provided. And of course that's a very important assumption that in the coming years this list could be realised in part and in quality, so that those who want to return would return to their addresses. Here, I won't be long, I'll only comment briefly and the proposed conclusions of the SDA Club. I think in this part where we talk about application, we're talking about the fourteenth year of this list score, I don't think this is good, it's not acceptable. The applicability of these results should be linked to the completion of the Annex No. VII implementation, therefore, of refugee returns. Here it is already said, I will only repeat that even today a significant number of people who have been exiled want to return to BiH to their addresses, to their property, and it would not be good for us to have a general position, and it is being read from this text of the Law, that we care about being as few as possible of those who will be listed. And I think it should be the other way around, you need to find a way to capture all those who are citizens and who want to be listed to be guided and registered as BiH residents. And the vice-president, Mr. Lozančić, was well noticed and I agree with this thinking, so the text of the Law itself seems to be in some sense reducing, so he says, in BiH, and I think it should be BiH. And the text of the Law shows that it is actually a better name, because BiH residents and those who do not always have to be in BiH, but are citizens of BiH and who are considered to be living in BiH can live elsewhere temporarily, but they are BiH residents. Here, I conclude with this, thank you for the given word and, bearing in mind the fact that the time has already passed, I thank you for... the time.
ParlaMint-BA_2010-01-21-1.u31895	Thank you. Replica, Reverend Halid Genjac. Here you go. 64
ParlaMint-BA_2010-01-21-1.u31896	Thank you. I think for the first time in my line, I'm going to tell my colleagues they're right. Indeed, a reasonable warning, the conclusion of the SDA Presidency, is that the law will apply after the general elections and the full implementation of Annex VII from a simple fact because these are the amendments in the constitutions. And that correction can either be made by default or we'll make an correction, so we'll deliver the corrected conclusions, which stands, a valid remark. And the second thing, as far as the 500 million insurance deadline is concerned, we are aware that it's very difficult by the middle of the year to secure the funds, we didn't mean to secure it, but to report what was prepared to secure those funds. Thank you.
ParlaMint-BA_2010-01-21-1.u31897	Thank you. The next is the Honorable Chairman, Dr. Milorad Živković.
ParlaMint-BA_2010-01-21-1.u31898	Thank you. If the Party for BiH had not said that it was against this law, that the SDP Club did not say that it was against the principles of this law (and that, in the event that they pass, that it would be in the Constitutional Court), that it did not say that it was against the principles of this law and gave these conclusions which, in my opinion, look more like blackmail, rather than compromise and which SNSD would not support, I might have talked here about the law and tried to say once again the arguments that we have (and which are obviously mixed and policy and profession, where this law is in line, because it was written by experts, with all the provisions of EUROSTAT, with all the definitions of EUROSTAT, even those definitions that are in Article 4(2), if they were not mentioned in the law that it would apply. And I would try to convince our colleagues that the issue of the total population is the principle of EUROSTAT and something that we cannot, in any committees, negotiate and negotiate, but someone in the international community, in front of BiH, try to change these principles of EUROSTAT. And we can also compare the lists that other countries make and compare those lists with our list, so for example, we say that we do not trust one Sweden that lists all citizens in Sweden and where all BiH citizens are, and we accept that they are a slightly more orderly country than we are and that we accept how many BiH citizens we have in Sweden. Because these are EUROSTAT principles. The other thing is if we want to talk about the specificities of BiH and say how far they go from EUROSTAT principles. Then let's talk about the specificities of BiH and see what are the specificities of BiH that came from yesterday or 15 years ago. It is not likely that the specificity of BiH is war, ethnic cleansing, genocide from 15 years ago. I think that these specificities of BiH are much further in the past and, if we say some years, let's agree on what year we're going to make, and then talk about whether we're going to apply that year. And let's talk about specificities, whether all the countries around us, from the former Yugoslavia, ethnic, national, language principles, are putting into their list. Let's see which country hasn't put it in since the former SFRY, even Albania put it in this list. And we're talking about that we're not going to do it in BiH, that 65 we're talking about the tradition of the BiH census, and we're saying that we've been doing it every time, but here, this time we're not going to do it. So, I'd like to talk about the fact that the party colleagues I listed said they were for the law and that we could talk about it in the amendment phase. Since they were said to be against this law, I can only say that time will prove and show all the ethnodemographic manipulations, which obviously in BiH has the most, that the list is necessary and that the truth will come out, because it can be covered up, but cannot be hidden. We're taking a break to three o'clock for lunch. [[PAUZA]] Comrades and fellow MPs, please take your seats and proceed with the agenda. We're at point five, Ad. 5. Proposal for a law on preventing conflicts of interest in the institutions of Bosnia and Herzegovina – Proposer: Council of Ministers of BiH (first reading)
ParlaMint-BA_2010-01-21-1.u31901	Thank you very much, Chairman. Dear members of the PSBiH House of Representatives. Let me just say that the Law on the Prevention of Conflict of Interest in BiH Institutions was done at the conclusion of both the Representative and the House of Peoples, which actually asked the BiH Council of Ministers to form a...a briefly suspended recording... which would make the Law on the Prevention of Conflict of Interest and deliver it to the BiH Parliament in an appropriate procedure. I would remind you that in the Interresor Working Group there were representatives of the BiH Parliamentary Assembly, i.e. the House of Representatives, then the Central Election Commission and several ministries, and that the result of their work was the Law that you have before you. The law, to put it this way, has caused a lot of public attention and interest, but what is important to note is that certain legal solutions are actually the result of a previous experience and an attempt to adapt the law and to define those solutions that may have been controversial so far, 66 such as the question of the roles of the CEC, penalties etc. The legal solutions themselves contain general provisions, which is the only competent authority to conduct the procedure. The complaint of the CEC's decisions goes to the BiH Court of Appeals, and the transitional and final provisions also regulate the possibility of the CEC working under entity laws, if they are authorised by entities. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-BA_2010-01-21-1.u31902	Thank you. We have already been reported, honourable MP Šefik Džaferović. Here you go.
ParlaMint-BA_2010-01-21-1.u31903	Mr. Chairman, colleagues and colleagues, ladies and gentlemen. The issue of the Law on the Prevention of Conflicts of Interest is the issue we have been dealing with since 2002 when this law was adopted in BiH for the first time. He was imposed by a high representative, and was later adopted by the House of Representatives and the House of the Peoples of the PSBiH. And then, on several occasions, we made changes to that law and, behold, we formed this Interresor Working Group which, through the Council of Ministers of BiH, practically proposed the text of this law. I belong to the category of MPs who think currently existing solutions in BiH are such that they must be reconsidered, especially when it comes to sanctions. And I think that's where you have to look for an appropriate way out. But I also belong to the category of those who believe that the solutions offered by the amendment and the supplement, which is the subject of this debate today, are pre-liberal when it comes to BiH and that appropriate changes should be made at this amendment stage. Here, first of all, I think that this text needlessly covers a few things in relation to this main matter of sanctions itself, and I'll talk about it later. I think the proposal should exclude the possibility for members, that elected officials may be members of the Management Board of Public Enterprises. It's a vague thing, because it turns out they can be these public, but they can't be private, but they can't be public or private. And I think that this thing needlessly burdens the existing text of the law and that we should exclude it in the amendment phase from the law. I believe that the issue of the involvement of close relatives who do not live with the elected official in the family household should also be excluded as an opportunity to be in conflict of interest. Therefore, an existing and valid solution should be maintained, not divided into those in the family household and those not within the family household. I think the question of sanctions, as it is set here, is that fines are pre-liberal, because the possibility of forgiveness of a fine, if a conflict of interest is removed, I don't think there's any sanctions. Penalty is punishable and must be paid if an offence is committed, that is, if a conflict of interest is established. And finally, the thing that is also very important. Under the basic law, which is now in force, there is an obligation between the entity and the Brcko District to pass their laws, but they must comply with the state law, and until they pass their laws, they will apply state law. This is a valid solution and this solution must be maintained. An existing solution that says they are obliged to comply with 67 of their laws only when they authorise the CEC to apply their laws, I think the reduction is relative to the existing state. As far as sanctions are concerned, I believe that what we have today, therefore, is an uncritical statement of the measures to end the mandate and ban the running for office is something that must be properly analysed and a different solution must be found. There are several possible models in that direction. One model is that the fine remains a base penalty and in this context needs to be corrected by this law, so the proposal that lies with us today, and in the event that the elected official, after paying the fine, does not remove the conflict-of-interest situation, then the Election Commission can be authorised to withdraw his mandate, and I would agree to that, therefore, in such situations. There's been a lot of talk here about the opinion of the Venice Commission. The Venice Commission once manifested itself in the text of our current Law and, in view of this termination of the mandate, it was said that only then, if it was seriously injured, the public interest could, therefore, not be opposed to European practice and international standards, could the mandate be taken away. No problem, as far as I'm concerned, it is possible to provide for such a provision in the event of a serious breach of public interest, that, for example, the BiH Constitutional Court would thus protect the dignity of elected officials, but also protect the public interest, may, on a proposal or at the request of the CEC, withdraw the term of office. These are some of the possible modalities that are now out of the law, which, in my opinion, have to be installed in order for the Law to definitely be adopted. The law, in a text like this now offered, definitely, so finally, in the second reading, I, as a representative, will not be able to support unless there are any of these changes that I have talked about and these modalitys that we can discuss. There's been a lot of talk about the Venice Commission's opinion, and I think some things have been manipulated in public. I'm sorry it happened. The constitutional commission is placed in a central position when it comes to the law. The Constitutional Commission has an obligation to process every law that's on the agenda. The law was put on the agenda and the Constitutional Commission processed it, we had no authority to do anything except give our position and inform the House. As far as I'm concerned, I'm willing to wait for the opinion of the Venice Commission and I think that would be best, I think it would be best if we didn't speak in the first reading, wait for the opinion of the Venice Commission. They'll be here in 14 days, 20 days, to vote afterwards, if we have to have a public debate, to have a public debate, to clear up once all of these possible dilemmas. Manipulation at least corresponds to elected officials in this situation and to us who need to make a decision. We don't need any manipulation, we need an honest law, a law that will really prevent a conflict of interest in BiH. And for me, I'm not running away to have any public debate, to have everyone come, to say, to sort things out and to say what it is that BiH needs right now. I think, in relation to this solution that has been offered, these few things are a condition, they have to be corrected in order to ultimately, therefore, definitely, as far as I'm concerned, support. That's it, thank you.
ParlaMint-BA_2010-01-21-1.u31904	Thank you. 68 Dear Ambassador Halid Genjac, discussion. Here you go.
ParlaMint-BA_2010-01-21-1.u31905	Thank you, Chairman. We will all agree that so far we have had a rather rigid law with sometimes very inappropriate solutions, solutions that even made it possible to retaliate, as colleagues say, in certain cases. In addition, the Venice Commission itself noted in its opinion since last year that some solutions in the existing law must be built against the weight of the work, and that each act cannot be the same sanction. And what does that mean in practice, we've had a chance to see for ourselves here. Therefore, the idea of forming an interresor group is justified and it is necessary to respect the efforts of this interresor group and the need to change the law and, of course, should be prepared to find better solutions, to find better solutions than the interresor working group did. Some solutions that have been offered confirm or contribute to the the thesis that have gone a little too liberally, that some solutions have still remained unclear and that some solutions have been kept from the upcoming, which contain possible misunderstandings. I would talk about this law, however, and a little bit in the context and the EU's Progress Report on BiH in the integration process and in the context of visa liberalisation. Last year's Progress Report noted that BiH has made very modest progress on corruption and the fight against corruption, and that there is the possibility that some of these problems could be resolved by the Law on conflict of interest or by preventing conflicts of interest. And then the Expert Group for the liberalisation of the visa regime for block III, the internal security, which was in BiH in the middle of last year, found that in the Law on the conflict of interest, the Institute for the Application of Property of Selected Officials was not adequately set up because there is no institute for monitoring the property, change and property and no sanctions for false display of property. And it's in the Map of Ways directly asked of us to do it. So these were the observations of the Expert Group on the existing law which, as I said, is very rigid and very strict. In this law that has been made, a monitoring institute has been established, reporting changes in assets, however, sanctions for misrepresenting property are not foreseen at all. So, we didn't meet that condition, that's one thing. The second thing, of course, we should create our own laws, but also respect the fact that we are a member of the Council of Europe, and that we will join the EU, and that we are a member of the OSCE, etc. We can't listen blindly to everything we're told, but it doesn't make sense to ignore everything we're told. All these four institutions warned the BiH Council of Ministers that before delivering this law in the procedure, they would request the opinion of the Venice Commission who, as I said, had found very correct remarks in the sense that it was too strict a law (as would be very correct in considering this law). The BiH Council of Ministers lays down the law and delivers it in a procedure without the opinion of the Venice Commission and states in an accompanying act, it is recommended that the BiH Parliament seek the opinion of the Venice Commission. I think it's completely unnecessary, I'd say it's not even correct. Why? The BiH Council of Ministers knows very well, because they lead the team, the Interresor Group for visa liberalisation, that in the second or third weeks of February, expert evaluation teams, final assessment of blocs II. and III. on visa liberalisation. On the agenda of this expert group, this law was laid down, a report, what about the law, what's the law? And as chairman of this 69 European Integration Commission, the BiH Council of Ministers called on me to present the Law. The easiest answer for me would be to say that we asked for the opinion of the Venice Commission and that the law would be agreed with the opinion of the Venice Commission. So that would be the easiest answer, which would be respectable, and I'm afraid we make unnecessary things out of cash veracity, because this law is not urgent, it's not necessary at this point and there's time to avoid any implications of the law. It is possible, of course, to change some members during the amendment phase, however, it is quite certain and obvious that the opinion of the Venice Commission will also help us in this business. For this reason, given all this in mind and all the circumstances that are really significant, I suggest we adopt the following conclusion: - A statement on the bill on preventing conflicts of interest in BiH institutions in the first reading is postponed. The College of the House of Representatives will request the opinion of the Venice Commission on the proposed law or, if it is already requested by Mr Belkić, it will be given the opinion, and after obtaining the opinion of the Venice Commission, the House of Representatives will declare the bill's proposal in the first reading. Thank you.
ParlaMint-BA_2010-01-21-1.u31906	Correction of the false allegations, the Honorable Chairman, Dr. Milorad Živković.
ParlaMint-BA_2010-01-21-1.u31907	I just want to say that the opinion of the Venice Commission cannot be a condition, and my opinion is that there should be no practice in the parliamentary procedure either. We can adopt this law in the first reading, according to the Rules of Procedure, we can open a public debate, according to the Rules of Procedure and bring all opinions, any experts of the international community and all those who want to talk to us about it, but we cannot ban or tell the BiH Parliamentary Assembly to wait for any opinion, including the Venice Commission, without challenging the expertise of the people sitting in the Venice Commission, but do not introduce us in the parliamentary procedure that for legal projects, and we could do so for all legal projects, so here now and the Census Act, we are looking for the opinion of the Venice Commission. Where will this process in this House lead us? We have sufficient business opportunities to respect all opinions, to work towards our conscience and according to the Rules of Procedure and the Constitution, that this Parliament adopts laws as provided for in these procedures. At the same time, in the very explanation of the Council of Ministers of BiH, which unanimously adopted, together with our interresor working group, this law, says there is no official legal act at EU level defining the area covered by this law, which would eventually be harmonised by BiH legislation, and that there is a common EU principle in this area, which, through the provisions of the Law on Conflict of Interest in BiH Institutions, is not waived. What does that mean? Not to believe what the BiH Council of Ministers wrote and what is here before us? And, here, and after that, we from SNSD are in favour of discussing this law. That's why we're even going to a public debate and we're not running away from any controversy, but don't be conditions for this parliament to have anyone's opinion, including the Venice Commission. Dear Ambassador Halid Genjac. Here you go. 70
ParlaMint-BA_2010-01-21-1.u31908	Of course, it should not be introduced into the practice of parliamentary life to demand any opinion on all laws, but this law differs significantly from other laws. The difference is that four institutions, for us very important and for our claims very important, have asked us to request the opinion of the Venice Commission before the law is in motion in the procedure. We can respect that fact and ignore it. I think it's more logical to respect her, that's all. Of course, it's everyone's individual opinion of how we're going to define ourselves.
ParlaMint-BA_2010-01-21-1.u31909	The Honorable President, Dr. Milorad Živković, responds to the replica.
ParlaMint-BA_2010-01-21-1.u31910	I just want to write that it's about time. In April, OHR sent an opinion, in June, the legal chief of the Department of Legal Affairs sent an opinion to our representative in the Interresor Working Group, Mr. Novaković, on individual members of this. Let's discuss the members, let's open a public debate and that, if someone is already asking for the opinion of the Venice Commission, it comes in the meantime. Why stop the procedure? Dear Member Azra Hadžiahmetović. Here you go.
ParlaMint-BA_2010-01-21-1.u31911	Thank you, Chairman. Here, briefly, in a way, I also profite from the position of the Party's MPs' Club for BiH. Before reminding you that BiH was one of the first countries to institutionally regulate this area by law, which, as Mr Genjac said, is rather rigid, he probably meant no to rigidity in the right sense of words as to strictness in terms of sanctioning certain provisions. However, he also mentioned that there are inadequate solutions, perhaps a solution that has little time passed. But in any case, the law that was first in the countries in the region was passed and also mentioned in neighbouring countries as a model and served as a model for regulating this matter and (which will serve, among other things, and as a model for regulating this matter.) The law has already been given its opinions by the Venice Commission, not by accident by the Venice Commission. We had a debate earlier on about the census, but no one thought of talking about the EUROSTAT criteria, or the UN Population Fund criteria, to seek the opinion of EUROSTAT or the UN fund on the law. But it's not quite by chance that the Venice Commission is listed here, because it deeply penetrates the human rights segment, which is, among other things, the key area of the work of the Venice Commission. In fact, the proposed law, in the opinion of us from the Party for BiH, has gone into some regulations forward, and if one step has been taken forward, five steps back has been taken. So, the solutions that may have existed here in BiH before, if there were any, (i.e. how certain segments referred to some relations 71 within the matter regulated by this law,) but this step, under quotes, which this bill made in some things went a long way back, bringing us back at a time of unregulated matter or even very weak, to say, sanctioned conflicts of interest. Therefore, let us mention that, if this parliament is not possibly defined, that, in the course of the procedure, the Council of Ministers has proposed, therefore, in the course of the parliamentary procedure, the opinion of the experts of the Venice Commission, the Party for BiH, should, therefore, not adopt the proposal for a conclusion, here, I am also putting it previously prepared in the procedure, which is in line with the Council of Ministers' suggestion, we are not prepared to support such solutions. The reason, here's a brief explanation, we appreciate that in these returns, let's say, backwards, this law, among other things, has opened a number of doors of suspicions. Because we appreciate that, in a way, we don't need to close the door and before the public sees certain elements or segments, to say, that regulate this matter, especially at this time when this question, instead of going in the language of the profession step forward, is a little bit more politicizing. Therefore, here is a proposal from the Party for BiH MPs to postpone the statement on the proposal for this law until the Venice Commission's opinion on the proposed law, which is, after all, the Council of Ministers' suggestion that, during the parliamentary procedure, we are already under way, waiting for the Venice Commission to show. Thank you.
ParlaMint-BA_2010-01-21-1.u31912	Thank you. Dear Ambassador Momčilo Novaković. Here you go.
ParlaMint-BA_2010-01-21-1.u31913	I thank you, Mr. Chairman. Dear colleagues and colleagues. I, I don't even know how, found myself at the head of an Interresor task force working on this bill. And I must say that in this discussion I will also try to make a sort of report of us MPs who were members of the Interresor Working Group in front of the House of Representatives, there was Mr Bakir Izetbegović, in front of the SDA, so he was Mr Vinko Zorić from the ranks of the Croatian people and I was from the order of the Serbian people. In the beginning, we had a position that we had a law that was in force, which, according to its characteristics, is the most restrictive law in Europe. So we had a law that had solutions, which were not European practice, better say solutions that no European country had. Furthermore, we had solutions that were very discriminatory from the point of view of the European Convention on Human Rights. The CEC's special right to ban candidacy in the elections, which the Venice Commission, when the last, when previous amendments were made, analysed and gave the opinion that only the Constitution of a country could define itself. I'm talking about a ban on running, I'm not talking about sanctioning the end of the term, so just in the part that's talking about a ban on running. We had a situation of completely different practices in BiH. A practice defined by the Law on conflict of interest at the level of BiH, which was accepted by the Federation of BiH and the Brcko District and the practice of the Law on the conflict of interest of the RS, which is far more liberal than this law, according to its solutions. So that was the position we had at the beginning. 72 The Interresor Working Group unanimously accepted the text of the law in the proposal after all these many meetings. I underline unanimously, therefore, with MPs from the SDA, HDZ, with ministers from the BiH Party, the SNSD, with members of the CEC, three members of the CEC. The proposal that we, i.e. the working material that we sent to the Council of Ministers of BiH was the result of a unanimous statement on the Interresor Working Group. Then came various stories of legal solutions, some based on the text, and some even unfounded on the proposed work material. People were discussing something they didn't even read. What was our ultimate goal? So our goal was to make a law that does not differ significantly from other countries' practices, especially countries in the environment. And our goal was to avoid conflict with the European Convention on Human Rights and Political Freedoms. You see, today to say that something is backwards or forward, it's possible that some solutions, in the opinion of some colleagues here that I respect, are a step back. Step backwards just needs to be defined by what. They are not a step back from European practice, we have a practice of European countries where our MPs and ministers are at the same time both MPs and ministers and members, I do not know how many boards of directors. We have a practice of the countries where the MP goes to the minister and returns for the MP, has the right six months to declare whether he will return, will not return. We have practice where sanctions are purely moral, etc., etc. So the working group then thought that it was not a step back, but a step forward towards approaching European practice, some European countries, there is no European practice here. It's obvious that some, some thought this was, and they think today, are a step back. Of course, I don't mind, right now to understand, when we speak, here, I am now expressing my personal position here, so I voted like all the other members of the Interressor Working Group for this text, but I have no objection, if this Parliament and the public of BiH, through this Parliament, thinks that the problem is membership in one Management and Supervisory Committee, I am in favour of it not being. But let's not say it's a step back. It's not a step back, it's a step forward that doesn't go. Let's go back and keep the current solution. It's not true, I've even heard statements from some NGOs, in the style that this is contrary to the interests of the citizens. Look, I don't know who's invited here to speak on behalf of the citizens, us sitting here or NGOs, some NGO. I guess I'm saying something on behalf of the citizens, some citizens. And that's where we come up with the next problem. In fact, we have a situation today for the CEC to give a measure to the minister and MP, that they are complaining to the court, that the court rejects their complaints, that the Central Election Commission should give the MP a measure of termination of the mandate, and not give the minister an explanation that it did not, therefore, pay attention, please, to the explanation that it did not assign the mandate to the minister, but to the BiH Parliament, and as I did, grant the CEC mandate. It wasn't the people who assigned me a mandate, it was the CEC. And she can take my mandate, when I say to me, I mean all of us here, and she can't take the minister. We have the case of Jovan Hadži Mitrović and the case of Mr Sven Alkalaj, which we have today in this session. Of course, it's a full-on interpretation of the legal provision that gives us a mandate here. We wanted to avoid that variant, but I don't mind the combination Mr. Džaferović spoke of. That someone, I'm also into it, that someone who doesn't want to, when the Central Election Commission tells him to step out of the conflict of interest, doesn't want to do it, to give him such a measure. But it must be given to all elected officials, cannot be said to one and not said to the other, such as today's 73 interpretation of the CEC. It would be a step forward, not a step back, if we did, and I support it. We may not have been able to find that measure, Mr. Džaferović has an idea, I will be very happy if he finds that measure through the amendment, meaning that we resolve it, that all of us elected officials are equal, therefore, both ministers and MPs and committees etc., etc. Completely equal. And that was our goal, immediately to understand, the Law has suffered certain changes in relation to the working material of the task force and to be clear, it has adopted some remarks by Transparensija and some others, so it is not literally that work group material. Different practice, I was talking about, more liberal solutions. Of course, we have, on the other hand, also a very clear view that entities need to office, have the right, in fact, to regulate this area by their law. Some entities have exploited, some have not, the RS has used it, the Federation of BiH has not, it has accepted to apply the provisions of this law that we adopt here. And that's why we have different solutions. We have analyzed solutions in every country in the environment, and there are not as many restrictive measures as there are in our current law. I repeat, it can't be a problem for the law to be passed, it shouldn't be a definition of whether or not it's on the board of directors or supervisors. It can't be a problem if a close relative is who lives in a joint household or not, that's not the problem, if most in this House thinks it shouldn't be the solution that was proposed there, I'm also for it. Because we had these dilemmas in the task force, so it's not just us, we've been spinning around these solutions all the time, which is positive and what's not, which is more of a lack of what's more of a positive thing and we've suggested some solutions here. Now that it is not understood that I defend, I apologize, I will finish, I will see that it has passed these ten, that no one thinks now that I am defending this material, so I am now saying what I would say and that I was not the president of the task force. I think there's a way for all these remarks to be respected here, but I'm not prepared to delay our first reading. Look, we have time for a public debate, so, we're going to have to do that ten-day deadline now, which we said, he would move when we make a decision on a public debate, we should say that we need the law, by first reading, to support him, to get the opinion of the Venice Commission as requested by the second reading, and if not requested, I am in favour of looking for him today, to reach the conclusion that we are looking for him, not to enter the second reading, into the debate in the competent commission until we get him. In doing this, of course, we will also have a public debate and then come up with a solution, I repeat, which will be the first equal for all officials, the second for all in BiH, approximately the same, and the third, of course, in accordance with the European Convention on Human Rights and Political Freedoms. And on that background, I think that we could get solutions today, and that's why I would ask my fellow Genjac and counterpart Hadžiahmetović to reshape this conclusion in a way that we can't finish the second reading without these conditions they said. I think it is also correct according to the Council of Ministers of BiH, it is also correct according to the working group which, I repeat, has done it unanimously and correctly according to the law itself, so if you want to according to those letters that we received here, which did not say that should be stopped at the beginning, but that we should provide it by the end of the debate. Here, I think, too, that it should be provided, but in that next phase. I apologize for these two-and-a-half minutes, Chairman, this is more of a report, so here are the three of us that worked in that task force. 74 Thank you.
ParlaMint-BA_2010-01-21-1.u31914	Nothing, nothing, it's one replica used. The second vice-president, Mr. Beriz Belkić.
ParlaMint-BA_2010-01-21-1.u31915	It's not a classic replica, it's an explanation, so, not to say, a famous story about the opinion of the Venice Commission. So the Venice Commission's opinion was requested. The second thing is what anyone thinks about whether or not that institution should exist, when Parliament assesses, that is, people who have the opportunity and the right to seek it. So that doesn't mean that we should have a discussion. And, here, to take advantage of the opportunity when I got out, I won't answer again, I don't see what the problem is right now. So there's a huge consensus that we need to change some things. That could've been done on the commission, you could've gotten a negative report right away and put things back to square one, but, well, we can fix it now.
ParlaMint-BA_2010-01-21-1.u31916	Dear Ambassador Azra Hadžiahmetović, replica.
ParlaMint-BA_2010-01-21-1.u31917	Thank you, Chairman. Here, my colleague Momčilo Novaković mentioned different European practices and it is good to take into account different European practices. I will just remind you that some European practices are far behind Bosnian Herzegovina's practices and they have also been mentioned in public, and in some EU institutions, and recently over the big events that have been happening in our neighbouring countries, when, among other things, good practices have been sought, and then an example of the regulation in BiH is also mentioned. So, here, I'm deliberately not going to mention it, but if I have to, and I'm going to mention what country it's about. Secondly, I'll just remind you, in a number of different practices there are good practices, so we can focus on some legal solutions to go for example. as is the case with the election of commissioners in the European Commission. So just remember, here these days, both our and foreign media have been passing on what kind of barbeque, under quotes, are passing on, let me say, any future commissioners, or candidates for future commissioners, some of whom have given up because of some of the things that concern the issues of conflict of interest, have given up the candidacy. So there are different European practices, but there are also good practices. We can now say here that good practice is this, that it is better it, etc., but, here it is... precisely and for the reason that we are no longer fooling ourselves or, in a way, we are making arguments for and against. It is also the reason why we believe that we do not have to declare principles, not denying, indeed, and the progress that has already been made, but also, in our opinion, and the backs of various things, to delay the statement to obtain the opinion of the Venice Commission. 75 And secondly, I replicate part of the discussion, also of colleagues from Novaković, in cases of such regulation, the elected and appointed officials differ. We are all here in parliament elected officials. We are concerned with one practice, under quotes, and regulation, and to appointed officials sometimes some different solutions. Thank you.
ParlaMint-BA_2010-01-21-1.u31918	Thank you. Dear Ambassador Ekrem Ajanović, replica. Here you go.
ParlaMint-BA_2010-01-21-1.u31919	Mr. President. I'll be very brief since it's a replica. I think, first of all, that in the situation in which BiH is and in which we have the degree of corruption we have, I do not think that the excessive liberalisation that has been made in this law is in favour of either Bosnia or of resolving these issues. I'm particularly against it, and I've talked about it on the Constitutional Commission, and I haven't voted for this law in any case, and I'm particularly opposed to those solutions where it's said that at the same time both in the executive and in the boards of directors... which, in my opinion, would have caused even more problems, because that practice we had for a time, maybe ten years ago, and turning back, in any case, wouldn't have been good. And another thing, Živković said, that the Venice Commission has condemned this law so far, believing that human rights are being violated in some way. If a man who is removed can be rerun, I am not for such solutions because I believe that there is also a criminal law, when certain decisions are made, that a man, regardless of his human rights, is limited by certain human rights. And if we were to leave it in the law to run again in the next election, it would be a precedent for me and I don't think such solutions are good. In any case, I support this solution to leave(?) The opinion of the Venice Commission, then let us plead.
ParlaMint-BA_2010-01-21-1.u31920	Thank you. Dear Ambassador Halid Genjac, replica. Here you go.
ParlaMint-BA_2010-01-21-1.u31921	I have to answer to my colleague, Belkić. So it could be solved on the commission, agreed, etc. According to the Rules of Procedure, the Constitutional Commission, as competent in this case, has adopted constitutional law, compliance with the system and the principles of law. And only she could do it in this reading, nothing more, within a deadline that was very clearly prescribed. So she just could do it and nothing else. Six MPs, members of that commission were in favour, several were detained. If they were against it, they'd be 76... because most of them in the commission were for the principles of the law. And I remind you, I stress, the Constitutional Commission could only adopt the principles in the first reading and she did so. In the second reading, the committee responsible, in this case, is ustavnopravni, may decide to open a public debate under various circumstances. And that's all. So, I mean, there's no reason for any... right?
ParlaMint-BA_2010-01-21-1.u31922	Dear Ambassador Momčilo Novaković, replica. Here you go.
ParlaMint-BA_2010-01-21-1.u31923	I just need to read a sentence here to honor my colleague, Hadžiahmetović. Namely, when I spoke about how the law applied in different ways. So, depending on whether someone was elected or appointed and I was, or the whole task force thought it was wrong. I still don't think that's right today. Maybe my colleague Azra thinks she's okay. To avoid that, we introduced the concept of a public official. And if you've read the Law, you've seen, there's no elected or appointed, but there's a public official, and in definition, a public official has been defined to be an elected and appointed official, and an executive and advisor. Therefore, all of these are public officials and it is logical that the law applies equally to all public officials, not to be more restrictive for one, but to others more liberal. So, I still don't think there are any obstacles to the adoption of the law in the first reading and to further to the competent commission doing all this as well as counterpart Belkić, the esteemed deputy chairman, said. So he asked for an opinion and that's what he'll get. So it's true, fellow Genjac, but the Constitutional Law Commission has said six votes to, three abstentions. So, without a vote against her, she supported the principles of this law, what we're deciding today, so no votes against. Of course, I don't mind this solution either, look, I'm not here to defend this law, I'm not in front of the Council of Ministers here, but I'm not bothered by this solution either, but I don't think this solution makes any sense if we're going to do it until the second reading and the amendment phase anyway, unless we don't think we need the law. That's another thing, be careful. Then we'll stop him, we can stop him at the first reading. If we think it's so bad that it can't be changed in the amendment phase, then I would accept what these proposals are, so bad that it's impossible to change. But I think he's not so bad that it's impossible to change him and that some of these remarks that colleagues have are less important than those things where the law has made progress. So those steps back, which they say are steps back, are much smaller than steps forward.
ParlaMint-BA_2010-01-21-1.u31924	Thank you. Dear Ambassador Šefik Džaferović, replica. Here you go.
ParlaMint-BA_2010-01-21-1.u31925	Deputy Chairman, distinguished counterpart Beriz Belkić. I've been thinking for a long time whether or not to say this, but I can't say after these two reactions of an esteemed colleague, I have to add to this 77 that Dr. Genjac was talking about. So, everything I said today at Parliament, I also said at a session of the Constitutional Legal Commission, just like this, and voted in favour, so that I could come to a position that I could build the law that BiH needs. I could be against it, it would be 5-3-1, 4-5-3-1, I could be held back, it would be 5-4, so the law would be back here today, but I was in favor of the motivation that I brought to the commission today. As far as the Venice Commission's opinion is concerned, I don't think it's correct to transfer it to the Constitutional Legal Commission that the Constitutional Commission should have sought solutions or given a negative opinion. I think there was a procedural possibility that this would not be on the agenda of the House at all, so it would not be on the Commission, and not put it on the agenda of the House, it should be agreed on. We in the Commission see that it is on the agenda, we have deadlines, and in the Commission we must... process. It could've been done that way. I needed to say this. That's it, thank you.
ParlaMint-BA_2010-01-21-1.u31926	Replica response, second vice-president, Mr. Beriz Belkić. Here you go.
ParlaMint-BA_2010-01-21-1.u31927	Mr. Džaferović, I don't think I'm counting or suggesting who's going to vote. I also absolutely understand that people in different circumstances can understand and commit in different ways. I just wanted to say next and repeat. As far as the request for the opinion of the Venice Commission is concerned, that thing is over. Neither do I speak plus, nor minus, nor know what kind of opinion we're going to get, nor when we're going to get. It's just, I thought it should be done and it's done, that thing's done. Therefore, it is not necessary to propose a conclusion asking the College to ask the Venice Commission for an opinion because it is requested, unless you think that it is not enough for one member of the College to ask for it. So far, here's the second time I've looked and won, I get answers. So we'll get an answer. And as far as I'm concerned, I respect that, everyone has a right, of course.
ParlaMint-BA_2010-01-21-1.u31928	Dear Ambassador Remzija Kadrić, replica. Here you go.
ParlaMint-BA_2010-01-21-1.u31929	I thank you, Chairman. So one more question to the promoter -- here's the president of this task force, why wasn't it thought to amend and supplement the existing law, not to go like this, to propose this new law? So we could do with these changes and additions to this many things, and not in this way, that maybe in the weather we could talk about such an important issue. So here is for Novaković – was it possible that only amendments and amendments to the law were being made, or did the promoter go with this variant of proposing a new law?
ParlaMint-BA_2010-01-21-1.u31930	Thank you. Dear Ambassador Mirko Okolić, the debate. Here you go.
ParlaMint-BA_2010-01-21-1.u31931	I didn't think I should report at this point because the law is in the first reading, but it seems that we would have made it easier to judge and decide to go to another reading, I had to answer. This law, according to me, needs to go to another reading because there's no reason why we shouldn't let it go to another reading. Another reason is that the existing law is such that most of us have criticised it and rated it not as it should be and is not a law that could satisfy what it should serve right now. The amendments to the law are,...the new law has been done for a long time and I don't think there's any need for us to let it go to another reading now, to have a public debate. If we don't support him today, it means another new extra time to talk about this law at all, which wouldn't certainly be good, because this existing one is certainly such that there should be a new law. Furthermore, I would like to comment on the conclusions that have come here about, that is, the proposal for conclusions on this, before they are voted on, which is that the proposals for conclusions may be made out to draw conclusions or to reform them and not propose to delay the statement today. Furthermore, the second point of Mr. Halid Genjac's conclusion should be a point that no longer needs to be in this conclusion at all, because, behold, we have heard from Mr. Vice-President that the opinion of the Venice Commission has been requested and there is no reason why it should not go through the first reading and then we are just going about the supplemental, the change, through the amendment phase, through the public debate, for the second reading. Next, we can draw one conclusion, here's what I suggest, which is that the second reading of this law doesn't go until we get the opinion of the Venice Commission. Then we made sure there wasn't gonna be another reading unless he had the commission's opinion. Furthermore, I cannot agree that the same work can be sanctioned differently. It may be possible, here to say something, I will be tolerant, perhaps a different punishment, but for the chosen and appointed cannot be made so much a difference, it cannot be deafened by any act chosen or appointed. We now have the case, what Mr. Novaković said, that for the same act, one perpetrator gets the end of his term in parliament or the job he deals with without anything else happening. I agree, there may have to be different penalties, but it can't be that one can be processed at all, that the other won't be processed. This would be best if we named Hadži Jovan Mitrović as some minister because he can be a minister, there are no distractions and that's all right. Then I would suggest that we put in place such a practice. If anyone here has any such interference, we immediately find him some place of director of an agency or an institution, or a minister, and that's how we handle it. He further says here the Law on preventing conflicts of interest in BiH institutions. So isn't the Council of Ministers of BiH an institution of BiH?- I'm sorry. Then we should have said that it was the Law on the Prevention of Conflicts of the Interest of MPs, so indicate who we want, and end such a law, and then that's it. We can't, it seems to me, that's exactly how one population is directed. And I think we should support this in our first reading, that we need a public debate and, here's this conclusion that I suggested we make. 79 If anyone thinks or fears that there will be no second reading without the opinion of the Venice Commission, let us conclude that it does not go to another reading until the response comes from the Venice Commission, and until then we have time for a public debate and for everything else we wanted through the amendments. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-BA_2010-01-21-1.u31932	Thank you. Hey, big Momčilo, you wanna wait or what? Here you go.
ParlaMint-BA_2010-01-21-1.u31933	There's no need to wait. Indeed, I don't want to defend the law, but there was one question here from my colleague, Remzija Kadrić. I must answer that, that is to say, at the 29th session of the PSBiH House of Representatives held in 4.6.2008, this House launched an initiative to create a new conflict of interest law. And it has nothing to do with chairing the task force whether it will make changes or make a new law. So we brought it here. And I will read on -- which is based, therefore, on the new law, which is based on the positive experiences of EU member states, that is our conclusion, as well as the experiences of the CEC of BiH. So I didn't realize that the experience of France is a negative experience of the EU, where you can be both Minister and MP, and we didn't suggest it. So, I wasn't, or anyone from the Interresor Working Group, in the position of deciding whether the task force will make changes or a new law. That was the mission, and since I was in charge, I guess because I wasn't the only one in that constitutional session, so then they took me to the presidency. I guess the others sitting there didn't want to take the presidency. [[Common discussion]]
ParlaMint-BA_2010-01-21-1.u31934	Thank you. Dear Ambassador Bakir Izetbegović. Here you go.
ParlaMint-BA_2010-01-21-1.u31935	So, they say it's not in politics what it is but what people think it is, so this really got one dimension that doesn't deserve this thing, as if this thing could make a big contribution against corruption or corruption with this law. This is not one change of what needs to be done to prevent corruption in BiH. The other thing, I think we should have a public hearing, not to rush this, not to push this up to the public's nose, I think we should have a public debate. 80 I wouldn't be in favour of waiting for the Venice Commission's opinion, but we should walk alone once. But we want to go to Europe, we can have a problem with GRECO, we can have a problem with... Therefore, if we want to go there, then we need to follow the rules they set. And again, I would be patient and wait for the position of the Venice Commission. So I think we should find some compromise between what our colleague Genjac has proposed and what Okolić and Novaković have proposed. Eventually see if it's a first or a second reading, but somewhere around here, if we want the law at all, we need to find a solution somewhere to leave the law alive, to correct something. As far as the law itself is concerned, I think we should change it, people. I entered this commission because I think he's humiliating to us. So, you're guilty, you're already wearing that tag in advance of someone who's potentially corrupt, you just need to find out why. You see, there is no such law anywhere, not in the environment, not in the EU. This is the most rigid, worst law we have in BiH. We can't be an example... of how you should do it, how you shouldn't... because when you get a free ticket, did someone buy you in office, that you didn't pay for your lunch? You know, you have to pay your lunch in the future, so you know that thing. Just let it be heard that someone paid for your lunch, you may have a problem. Did he ever invite Bundestag to go upstairs, like he invited me and all these MPs here, so he paid us a trip, and a night and everything. Well, that's all the reason you're either being removed from here with a four-year mandate ban, or that you're not allowed to go into state service for four years. So where's that? You get 30-40-50 thousand votes from the citizens because you have some reputation in the middle and then some clerk, like this, can outsmart you. And if you knew, (half of this here), half of us, at least, would be removed if that law were rigorously applied. All the heads of the club MPs would immediately... Here, I'm saying it out loud now, because we went to Bundestag at the expense of the German state and they paid us everything, and that's forbidden by this. You know what this law looks like to me? You have a cardboard box that's hollow on the other side, but you put that lock you can't make, there's those codes, etc., that's the law, and on the other hand they can take whatever they want. So the head of the Development Bank, the Investment Bank here in the Federation of BiH, the director, and then in that loan commission, and then the private firm that approves, is it all right, and they ask you if someone paid you lunch, did you get a ticket to the football game free of charge. So I think we should change that. I don't think we've had a lot of running around here. We let you, so you can't be on one board of directors, say in Potocari upstairs, say at a bottle club where no one pays you for it. In Croatia you can be at three where you are paid. And we tried this thing against the masquerade and the relatives. So what must he suffer, what is called, my Badge, my career plan, narrow down, reduce with regard to some of my political ambitions and careers. We've done these things the same way we did in Slovenia. So, in Slovenia it is a household, members of a narrow household are only those who live in one apartment, sons, father, along this vertical line and horizontally... live in the same household. The second thing, if they find that they are in conflict of interest, they have a month, in Slovenia, here, Slovenia is one country that belonged to the country we belonged to and we, which quickly caught a strike with the EU and quickly became a solid European state, its solutions are such, so when a commission finds you, first of all, it is not the CEC but their parliamentary one, that you are in conflict, they give you a month to fix it, and then you have no problems. But here's one civilization solution that won't insult us as MPs. Thank you.
ParlaMint-BA_2010-01-21-1.u31936	Thank you. Replica, Ambassador Azra Hadžiahmetović.
ParlaMint-BA_2010-01-21-1.u31937	Thank you, Chairman. Here, first I read it in the paper, that we were in conflict of interest, the heads of the club MPs, and, now, I hear it here by colleagues who also stayed in Germany at the invitation of Bundestag, when the heads of the club of MPs were invited. I just want to mention that none of us went there incognito. Germany sent a memo here and called on the heads of parliamentary groups in this parliament to stay on a working visit to the German Parliament, the College approved such a trip and we went on an official trip and returned. So I don't think we've done any conflict, that we've been in conflict of interest or that we've done some incriminating act. I expected one of my colleagues to say so, because I'm asking you in the future, I'm already used to reading something that may not be entirely true, and in the media of some interpretations, but if I hear it here, for this parliamentary speaker of those who were also staying there, that we did some crime, I'm really asking you to react. Thank you.
ParlaMint-BA_2010-01-21-1.u31938	Thank you. Replica reply, honourable MP Bakir Izetbegović. Here you go.
ParlaMint-BA_2010-01-21-1.u31939	I didn't say, Azra, that we did a crime, but it is just a problem that this law is so rigorous that even such a logical thing is considered a conflict of interest. You must never let anyone pay your bill at the restaurant again, never take a free ticket to the game again, never again, never again... (?) No microphone turned on ...no...you can't, who knows what he wanted with that, you know. That's how you have the law. I wanted to underline what kind of law we have.
ParlaMint-BA_2010-01-21-1.u31941	Thank you. First Deputy Chairman, Mr. Niko Lozančić. Here you go.
ParlaMint-BA_2010-01-21-1.u31942	Thank you, Chairman. 82 I must say, this law that we have before us today is the result of the conclusion of this House and the House of the Peoples of the Parliamentary Assembly of BiH which asked the Council of Ministers of BiH to make a proposal for a new law. And let me remind you that this conclusion came after the failed attempt of an earlier inter-resor group to make a proposal to amend and supplement this applicable law. And it's obvious that we're not going to do this matter. Before I say anything about the law, I will address one of the members of the Interresor Group appointed by this parliament, I think it was also Mr Novaković who stepped up most about this law, in the context of his statement that he does not wish to defend this law. I don't think that's acceptable. First, we chose you to make the law and defend that law here in front of us, to convince us that what you did, what we paid you neatly, is fine. Therefore, do not say now that you will not defend what you yourself have done. I personally think that this and these laws are one of the most common public fraud fogs that, behold, all elected officials are prevented from any form of abuse of public functions in the private interest. And he hasn't met that need yet, because the public obviously doesn't believe that. The public is not satisfied with the solutions in the current law that we have heard from many that one of the region's most rigid, in the region is safe and perhaps in Europe. And then the question is rightly asked how, with such a rigid law, BiH would be on some kind of top of a corruption scale. How is that possible? Because one of the tasks of this law should be exactly the opposite, to prevent corruption. So he obviously didn't do his basic job. I must say, you, probably like me, have received letters – one of the OHR, one of the NGOs that I do not want to deliberately advertise here because of inappropriate advertising methods, which in one daily list threatened the general darkness in BiH if, God Bog, representatives today or tomorrow the House of Nations, I know when they discuss this, adopt this, Bog forbid the law. And I have to say, maybe it's one of the forms of public opinion influence on us elected representatives, I can say that I am experiencing it as a kind of pressure on elected officials in the conduct of their constitution-defined function. If, God Bog, I would order such an ad for that organization tomorrow, it would probably be a nonsens, and it would probably deserve to deal with my fate from all the democratic institutions of this world, because I would be declared someone who is rigid, who puts pressure on freedom of public opinion, on freedom of expression. All, in the end, by that logic have the right to freedom of public opinion, freedom of public expression other than those chosen by the people to speak freely in his name what they think they should say. And again we come to the question, what did the writer mean, all this talk – what's the point? This law is not a criminal law for elected officials. A lot of people want to introduce him like that, but he didn't even have that function. We have the Penal Code and BiH and the entity that is for all citizens of this country. Therefore, there is no problem. In no segment in those laws elected public officials, officials, call them whatever you want, are not excluded. What's the problem? Why must there be a special law for elected officials, literally special law? When in one society you estimate that a certain value is compromised, especially threatened, significantly endangered, then you pass special laws to cut it in the root and to solve this wound cancer as quickly as possible... I conclude that democratically elected institutions are the biggest problem of this country, because if they were not there, without this Parliamentary Assembly, we would not have any problems in this country. Everything would be great, democratic, orderly, valid, there wouldn't be 83 corruption, there wouldn't be crime, there wouldn't be nothing, there wouldn't be anyone in the conflict of interest. I have to say that I belong to the category of those who have too many other people's opinions on what's good for us. And I don't like it when they convince me that they love me more than I do, that they know what's good for me, in the broadest context, I don't mean personally, I mean the good in this country, because it turns out that everyone knows better about this country than we do for ourselves who live in this country and from those who chose us. Because they don't know, they pick the wrong ones all the time, because they should pick someone else and then it'd probably be okay. But we have every four years of elections. What are we going to do after these next choices? Maybe this hasn't been good so far. We have the first articles, the first few articles,... 1st and 2nd, in my opinion, is something that is, here, civilized and more like an ethical norm quite enough for one of these laws. This law regulates the prevention of conflicts of interest of public officials in the conduct of public office, I am absolutely up to it. The conflict of interest, there is a situation where... there is also a private interest that affects and can affect legality, openness, objectivity, impartiality, etc., I am absolutely for it. A public official in the conduct of public functions must act in the interest of the citizens, I agree. In the conduct of a public function, he must not put his private interest above the public interest, I agree. A public official in the conduct of public functions must act legally, effectively, impartially, honorably, and adhere to the principles of responsibility, honesty, awareness, openness, and agree with that. And I agree with all these views, not to bother you any further, in Article 2 of this law. So he's absolutely and clearly saying what it is that's inappropriate for a public official to act as a public official. And for all other cases, there is a Penal Code for all other forms. And now you have a situation – we argue here whether the elected official should be a member of the board of directors of something. Look, I mean, like, totally different. If I could influence that, I wouldn't allow the minister in charge to appoint one of his supervisors at the head of the Supervisory Board to do what needs to be done on his behalf, but I'd put the minister in that position and be in the right sense responsible for what he's doing there. Then we would certainly prevent abuse. This way we have the possibility, we give the ministers, we don't know either on this line or on that line, the possibility that we'll influence who's on the board of directors, we're like nice, we're not in conflict of interest, and there's someone on our behalf or without us who can't even sign a letter. It's a reality. So, if we really want to prevent a conflict of interest. But this law creates an apparent... we're talking about it now, we're looking for whether this Venice Commission is going to enlighten the mind and say, if this can, this can't. I personally think, and I will conclude that I no longer shower you, a provision in the current, still valid law, that the body chosen by this Parliament is taking away the mandates of those chosen by the people, I think there is no such thing anywhere in the world. It's nowhere in the world. We have chosen the Electoral Commission and we, like her, believe that she will do it correctly, and we do not trust ourselves. Everywhere in the world... commissions exist that deal with this issue. Then why don't we trust ourselves? Again, we trust the remote control over ourselves, or we avoid taking our own responsibility for making such decisions, if there is a reason for such a thing. It's just something we have to agree on if we want to make decisions. So, this law, I will agree in one part, is not a step back, in my opinion is not a step back even though it could have been a lot more steps forward to really be a law that would define what conflicts of interest are, and there is another legislation that sanctions those who make something that is illegal under this law, and in conflict are of interest. Thank you very much. 84
ParlaMint-BA_2010-01-21-1.u31943	Thank you. Dear Ambassador Slavko Jovičić. Here you go.
ParlaMint-BA_2010-01-21-1.u31944	The Honorable Chairman. Mr. Lozančić, thank you very much, precisely show these three years and more mandates in the BiH Parliament, not that you have performed an indoctrination on me, where you have stopped now I am continuing, and I have applied before. So, I'm known as a man who gives support to NGOs, but from this Transparensi, I get a more transparent rash, and I'm not allergic. They write those letters and they wouldn't say tomorrow that we don't respect their opinion, here, I'll talk about them today, because they'll talk about us tonight, tomorrow, and the day after tomorrow, and every day and whenever they have reasons, and these media are looking forward to letting them go. And they say so -- that the adoption of this Law on Conflict of Interest would go against basic democratic standards and not say any of these standards. What standard? Well, then they continue to be a direct focus against citizens' interests. There, they're like dams. Now I'm asking a question that's a group, because 20 or 50 of them out there don't have any members, but they're all executive directors, and they give themselves these functions that no one in the country has anywhere. Imagine what he says – the chairman of the board of directors, the board of directors, so there are still some on the board of directors, I've never heard of it, but here they have invented that function for themselves and now it's the chairman of a board of directors. I've never heard of the board of directors, the director is the director, at least I know it. Well, then they write like this, and they're looking for sanctions, and they're still small, these bills are provided for in the law, so as they know, so I guess they should have some powers to arrest and close, so there's a criminal law. Do they know what they write? Well, then, if I didn't read all of this because you're buried with these texts too, and they keep sending it, I'm asking a question, I'm going to be, I'm going to start an initiative really to see how many of these, dozens, not tens, but thousands, maybe one 10,000 NGOs, I'm saying I support them, but whoever's working in this country's interest, and they come out with a statement, just these are in conflict of interest, they're the most, this Transparency of BiH at 123rd place by corruption. They have no proof. And all those foreign happy investors, welcome to us, every day I call them, they drive them away, and they think well, better to this land than I am chosen by the people. And tonight I'm enjoying myself, and I'd like them to listen to me online now to say that I'm supposed to attack them, that they attack me, because this law doesn't make me do it for themselves. Whatever provision he has, whatever member, I will never be in conflict of interest. I can only be in conflict with myself if I'm not protecting my interest, that I'm constantly talking, that they can't turn me on with any nonsense that they're sending over the Internet, so someone like this, how else, I can't read all this, but just amazing. I repeat, a group of them, 15, I don't know, maybe there are 20 who live at the expense of the international community, which they finance(?They're taking huge money, so they're not in conflict of interest, and I am what the people chose me to be. And I'm looking for some law, let's make it up, that they have the authority to relieve me, that no one else but to be relieved by them, this Transparensi cheers. My people, really, I repeat this key sentence up here, that they wrote me a single word that we're breaking standards, one single word to say -- here, that's the standard you broke from this country, so you set an example of 85. I'd tell them right away from 20 other countries if they were standards we respect, we'd go ahead of those countries. But he won't. But tonight, the prime dates of all the shows – Parliament, so what they add to those prefixes, of course, what falls into their mind, refused the law, voted for themselves to be further, under the supposed signs, engulfed in some management committees, to still be arrested, to steal more. I'm transparently giving them a message from here that this letter will never read again what they send.
ParlaMint-BA_2010-01-21-1.u31945	Dear Ambassador Lazar Prodanović. Here you go.
ParlaMint-BA_2010-01-21-1.u31946	Mr. Chairman. So, in a certain dilemma between what we have right now and what the proposal is, I want to say some of my impressions about this law. So, I think the current law is more rigid, i.e., that this proposal is more flexible and objectively more favourable for elected officials. There's one problem, so different approaches to this matter exist, and I wouldn't agree if there were banishing because of the banal things, objectively. Whether there was a discrepancy over serious things, that's another question, that I'm... convinced of. This raises the dilemma of whether it is the right place for an institution that implements the electoral process and sanctions it. We also have a code of conduct here in the BiH Parliamentary Assembly, and not just officials, I am convinced that it is very often broken. On the issue of the Law of Conflict of Interest, we should strive to reach the European level. But I don't know, here I am for 14 years an almost elected official, or appointed to various institutions, I don't know any single case in BiH that someone has resigned at any place because at some point he's doing some jobs that are an absolutely clear conflict of interest and that are supplying, say, material benefits to someone. So, none, from the committee to the state presidency, I don't know any. In that sense, we differ from many European countries of modern democracy. If, in a European country, the Prime Minister resigns because of a seemingly story that might be like that, I don't know, that his wife had an affair with a teenager and something like that, we don't have such processes here. By liberalising this law, not because of... a question, we will not have an institute of resignation in response to the public responsibility of the elected official because he has violated in a particular case the law. Another question for me, too, is the dilemma. If we sanction someone with 10,000 KM, and he gets, say, funds or profits that, say, hundreds of thousands of marks, is that the right solution? I agree, the big legal question is how will someone whom the people choose be taken away from their mandate. But if I win a term at the expense of that and I get more benefits, then what do we do? We literally criminalize miles. So these are my personal dilemmas – how to solve this to be acceptable. I think that we, wanted not to, independently of the opinion of anyone here in BiH, have to open up a debate about this and say openly, I am convinced that no mandate for any lunch will be taken away, so don't let it..., therefore, open a debate on what a measure of taste is allowed and overrun some position of elected official. Whether it will be a public debate, whether it will be a face-to-face with professional institutes, whether, in any way, to separate this sanctioning position from the electoral process, whether what some have noted, which I also agree there should be courts around 86. But if we choose 21 from 42 in this way, we have neither the rule of democracy nor the rule of law. So, if we have absolutely no way of affecting it, we'll already be conducting machines, we'll also be conducting machines, what was said before, if you give the appointed official the possibility of representing his whole or, (I don't know what he's called, in some, say, managerial structure, someone there or in the management structure,...in that). So what I think – we need to open up completely, we need to give the public an insight of what Lazar Prodanović signed in this country, why he received money from whom he had received money and what he had done. It's no longer a secret, it shouldn't, or it's not impossible not to have. So all our accounts should be open and available. And then, when I break that story, (and not what someone's going to explain to me now because I'm in a situation that I don't know, I'm doing a job exclusively out of the profession, and now someone's telling me I can do one, and it's identical to that, and the others can't because it could happen that institution is doing business with a budget user.) So, I'm in favour of us opening up this debate and dealing responsibly with this, otherwise we're going to have a situation of full criminalisation in terms of protecting democracy from the local community to the state. That's it.
ParlaMint-BA_2010-01-21-1.u31947	We've got a few more reports now. Dear Ambassador Bakir Izetbegović has a replica, Halida, you have two replicas already.
ParlaMint-BA_2010-01-21-1.u31948	No microphone turned on
ParlaMint-BA_2010-01-21-1.u31949	Business intervention. Here you go.
ParlaMint-BA_2010-01-21-1.u31950	Oh, I'll try, indeed, therefore, for me is a very relevant fact that a member of the College has asked for an opinion. I didn't have that official information. And of course, the second point in the proposal is deleted. I ask you to keep in mind, however, that teams on liberalisation are coming in February, and a recommendation from the European Commission is expected in March. We have a proposal to postpone this until we get the opinion of the Venice Commission, we have a proposal to postpone the second reading until we get the opinion of the Venice Commission. After all, there is no big difference, but first, it may be that this law in first reading does not get enough support without this waiting opinion of the Venice Commission, that is one thing. And secondly, it wouldn't be a 87-good fact that we passed the law in our first reading when we came in February by a security block expert. Believe me, folks, I'm asking you to have the understanding to support the proposal, to get the opinion of the Venice Commission, to continue the procedure, we're not losing anything by waiting here, but because of this fact, in March, a recommendation is expected for BiH.
ParlaMint-BA_2010-01-21-1.u31951	Thank you. Dear Ambassador Bakir Izetbegović, replica. Here you go.
ParlaMint-BA_2010-01-21-1.u31952	Explanation to fellow Prodanović. So we had this thing in mind that a man can do a bill like this – come on, I'll get on a couple of boards and that's 100,000 marks for me, I'll pay 10 and 90 again. And then we had one subcommittee, so, Mr Zorić, me and Mile Kudić from the CEC, we suggested for cases like this, meaning, a rigid violation of the provisions of the law, so that in that case we could impose the penalty of confiscation of office. And then they told us from the CEC that we can't do that because it's a violation of the Convention on Human Rights, European. And we gave up. So now this matter is resolved by Article 18, paragraph 4, where it is said that, in addition to paying 10,000 marks of fine, a public official is obliged to return things, rights or property benefits that he has obtained by violating the provisions of this law.
ParlaMint-BA_2010-01-21-1.u31953	Thank you. Dear Ambassador Selim Bešlagić. Here you go.
ParlaMint-BA_2010-01-21-1.u31954	Dear Chairman, colleagues and colleagues. I'll try to be very brief. When we discuss the laws, we now get the impression that someone has imposed on us an Electoral, that is, the Law on conflict of interest, and we have passed this law in the BiH Parliament. On the other hand, we said it was a rigid law. So who brought it? We passed it as a rigid law. I think we have a responsibility to break that law or not to break that law, which criticises us, it's our fault that we brought it here. We could have passed a law that, behold, is similar to these other laws (and in that sense today would be...) but I want to highlight one thing. I had a case when, as an election man, I was proposed to one of the boards of directors of a private company, and there came to me an observation from one another who said it was a conflict of interest. Interestingly, that's when our commission said it was a conflict of interest, the CEC, and I resigned from that position of the board of directors and performed my post. Please, do you, here, we're all elected, we're all elected, do you know how long it took you to fill out a list of candidates for MPs or MPs in parliament? Is that a list of one 20 pages, father's name, mother's name, single birth number, brother, sister, uncle, then 25 knees, then where you do, what you do, then horizontal line, mother-in-law, mother-in-law, etc., and what's happening now. I thought it was a data that would be my responsibility if I participated 88 in some kind of, I would say, illegal, illegal... which is in conflict of interest, etc. I think the Election Commission should have... and when we agreed to come in, I assumed she had checked that there was no conflict of interest. And when I got the certificate, I thought I fulfilled that obligation. When it started, I would say, taking down MPs in this House, when the new Election Commission came and when Mr Hadžimitrović here after 2.5 years of office was taken down because they came, after 2.5 years, to the conclusion that he was in violation of the Law of Conflict of Interest... I think that this law should be changed in terms of explaining what conflict of interest is, who gives a grade, knows who chooses us, and on the other hand, I don't think we should give the Electoral Commission an assignment to punish, it should be arranged so that whoever breaks this thing, can answer criminally and let it all answer there. Taking my term of office, the moment I run for office, let him check in and warn me, not when he's already giving me a certificate and then he's making me an ass and she's this strong now. And that's what we're causing, I'd say, one climate that all MPs are thieves, and the Electoral Commission made a mistake when she gave consent to me to meet all the conditions. I think that there should be something to do and that this law should be amended, but in spirit, I would say, creating criteria that would tell what a conflict of interest is, that the Election Commission, at the beginning of consent, that there is no mandate after that if someone violates, by criminal law, to sanction its part and eventually take this part. (I don't see that possibility here... so...)
ParlaMint-BA_2010-01-21-1.u31955	Thank you. Dear Ambassador Velimir Jukić, replica. Here you go.
ParlaMint-BA_2010-01-21-1.u31956	It's more of a false quote from a respected colleague, Bešlagić. So now the current Law on conflict of interest in BiH institutions is imposed law, and we have only done one small amendment and addition, but the law, it is essentially that law. Now I'm only going to say two sentences on the rules on that law. Namely, this law, when it was done, when it started, had two assumptions, at least I think so when I read it, which is one assumption that elected officials are very suspicious and with a very large percentage that they are corrupt and prone to various machinations etc., and that the Election Commission is unquestionably highly moral, professional, professional, professional, etc. and, therefore, with that assumption are given solutions, and solutions are such that they have no right to do anything, that they are suspicious, with a lot of unnecessary data, etc., and the Election Commission is infallible, it will perfectly, correctly and quality do its job. And let's say that it was a time and I won't even comment, but I'll just say that in this time that it's past has shown that those excessive restrictions haven't proved justified, at least I haven't seen it, and we've seen that such rigorous, rigid solutions haven't given the expected results, at least I think, and that, although they're contradictory, or much more rigorous than the practices of most countries in Europe, perhaps even of all, they haven't given the expected results. I think we really need to make changes in a way to pass a new law. 89 In my opinion, in this law, I do not know at all what is so unacceptable, although, frankly, there is no reason to defend this law specifically as a solution, but I think it is really much better and better quality, with all its solutions entirely, than what we now have as valid. About the role of the Venice Commission, I think it is an important, respectable commission often dealing with BiH, the situation and issues in BiH, and I really think it is good to hear their opinion as well. And especially those who are very fierce these days, I would say, with the lack of arguments criticise the solution of this law, that they also say very specifically what it is that is very bad and that will produce bad results in the application of this law.
ParlaMint-BA_2010-01-21-1.u31957	Azra, you've spent your replica. You've had a replica twice. Only business can get you out. Come on, business.
ParlaMint-BA_2010-01-21-1.u31958	Here, there's really going to be a business intervention. Among other things, let's say, it can be found probably in the Rules of Procedure for this, we were kind of talking about the Venice Commission, like they're gonna be there for us, like there's a foreign body that we're going to send something to us as strangers, being obvious to us. Let me remind you, as a member of the Council of Europe, BiH, and the Venice Commission has special institutional ties to the Parliamentary Assembly of the Council of Europe as an independent committee on democracy, and I don't know the full name now as it is, we are a full member of the Council of Europe. We have a member of the Venice Commission, so that's our commission, that's our... _________(?) [[microphone is not enabled]] Well, the current term is up, I think, but aren't we a member? _________(?) We did.
ParlaMint-BA_2010-01-21-1.u31961	The next is the Honorable Chairman, Dr. Milorad Živković.
ParlaMint-BA_2010-01-21-1.u31962	My colleagues and fellow MPs. I need to say that they are not guilty of any NGOs, international community or anyone else, that it is our own fault. We simply allow everyone in this country to humiliate us, to tell us what to do. (and what they're telling us and what we need to do.) An eclectic example will be the points of the agenda that are somewhere near the end, if we reach them, where we will see that we are the only ones who have remembered that we need to give from our diaries and salaries to Haiti, to try to give both the water industry and the floods that have occurred in the past, we are helping because we have some burden of our previous inconsistencies here in Parliament, something called public pressure, NGOs and international organisations. I'm specifically referring to the Law of Payments where we consciously came out of that law, even though we didn't have any real reason for it, and it was seen to be a big mistake. We failed to withstand the burden of what's called a parliamentary job and what you think you're right, which in the end proved you were right. That's how it's gonna happen with the Law of Conflict of Interest. It is indisputable that we need this law, which we did not adopt but was imposed by the High Representative, and we just confirmed here, that we need to change it and that constantly, when someone imposes legal regulations here on us in the international community, we have long-term consequences in this country. We play experimental rats or mice in whom? any good or bad practices shown in the next period apply (?) in Europe. Instead of applying or accepting those good practices that are in Europe, we have these practices here every year and see and then use in Europe what is good, what is bad, and we are told that we do not need to do it. It's our fault, not the NGOs, not the international communities. And if the proposal does not pass, which has already come to us before a hundred of the Party for BiH and the SDA, I suggest that after the vote, we also consider all these conclusions which it says - that the Constitutional Legal Commission of the House is invited to open, in accordance with Article 114. Rules of Procedure, a public debate on the Bill's proposal to prevent conflicts of interest in BiH institutions that would include interested bodies, professional institutions and individuals. If they come next month to the European Commission and their monitoring team, we will be in a position to say that we are in a public debate on this law and that we are going to say that we have come seriously to this problem, not to hide behind some opinion given by the High Representative in this country, which should be, and less should be, the High Representative, (to date that opinion should be given to us and give it to us) (?). Apparently, in this country, he too does not do his job that he should do and who expects this country to do it. Therefore, do not hide behind any opinions, let us take into our own hands the work and the task ahead of us and show that we are responsible and that we also trust our people who have worked unanimously on this committee and all these problems that I know have met with them daily, because I was in a working group in a previous term when we discussed this law and I know that these problems are great, that they are constantly having doubts and that you have no one to refer to in European practice because these practices are diverse and they are not the same systems. Therefore, let us stand behind our and our colleagues who are from (Parliament and House of Nations), but also behind our ministers who were in this group and behind the CEC, because they unanimously stood behind this legal 91 project, and I do not see any member who, if we do not give reasonable consideration, could not be changed to the Constitutional Commission. This is the way and the way in which we will preserve this Parliament's dignity, and show both the international community and NGOs that we are not working under pressure, but only with arguments. Thank you. Dear Ambassador Martin Raguž. Here you go.
ParlaMint-BA_2010-01-21-1.u31963	Well, I've been talking about this law a lot in the media these days, and I've been thinking about it a little bit of some of these, so if I didn't say it again, I'd just say two things about our role here. So this law was attacked by some of our colleagues before we could even discuss it here. I think we need to protect our integrity here and the BiH Parliament. We all need to hear the opinion of everyone, both the Venice Commission and the NGO sector and the OHR, but the laws are passed by this House, that is, this Parliament. And it's not a problem in the law, gentlemen, in this country, so I answered my word. The law that is now in force may be the most restrictive in Europe. I have had the opportunity, and you, to visit the polite, democratic parliaments in Europe, etc., so that you can see that there you can be the province's prime minister and minister and representative at the same time in the Bundesrat, defend the interests of the province you represent and functionally respond, which is logical and appropriate and responsible, and be in public corporations, all one man. And that's not the source of corruption there. So there's something else to say here. We have a bad law, we have a bad law, it's a source of corruption, and for 10 years there's nothing we can do about corruption in this country. And I called it, all the beauty is in the expectation that one day this country will come into dealing with corruption, and it will last, it will last. Let's just say Article 12, some of us, either of you, or all of you together had the opportunity to be members of the board of directors, I've never been a member of a board of directors for 20 years of politics in any of the boards of public corporations, I was mostly either a culture, or a sport, where I need to push a little bit, put my back in order to make something, so on and so forth. Well, you can't be in the board if it's 10,000 or 50,000 marks. What does that mean? This means that there is no one to lobby for these institutions that we see at this time the state of organisation, the willingness, the lobbying, because everywhere in the world people use it for the foundation and for the foundations, and for the fight, and for the contribution, etc., not to limit, but to extend the way to help. We're prevented from working on it at all. Well, hold on a second, guys, hold on a second. Wait a minute. Let's imagine. Which is the commission, which is the representative of the international that can these solutions experimentally here all the time... Stop once to get to the wall, a little bit to question where we are with the fight against corruption. We have the most restrictive law, we have the highest corruption rate. Well, it's no longer a legal issue. The problem is that independent judicial, executive and legislative authorities do not function separately and independently and that we know how everything works, intervenes in that space and see where the problems are. I think we should have a public debate, invite everyone, and the NGO and the venecijanski... everything, everything, but it's up to us, man. Once we realize that once 92 we can pass laws for these citizens and this country and get our heads under the sand and see where the real problems are.
ParlaMint-BA_2010-01-21-1.u31964	Thank you. I'm closing the debate on this agenda point. Moving to point six, Ad. Six. Proposal for a Law on the Bosnia and Herzegovina Judicial Police – Proposer: Council of Ministers of BiH (first reading) The BiH Council of Ministers delivered the Law to parliamentary procedure 31.12. The Constitutional Foundation and Principles Opinion of the Constitutional Commission delivered 19.1. I'm opening a debate on the bill in the first reading. I ask the BiH Council of Ministers if there is any need? There isn't. Dear Ambassador Vesna Šain. Here you go.
ParlaMint-BA_2010-01-21-1.u31966	Thank you, Chairman. This law would create another BiH-level institution. So, the BiH Court of Justice would be in charge of managing the work of the BiH Judicial Police, which means centralisation of authorities, ignoring entity authorities. So, inspecting all of those security institutions that already exist at entity level and doing this job. Article 5th of this law, which describes the affairs of the Judicial Police, clearly shows that it is the ignoring or possible abuse of power by the Court of BiH, where it stands – the Judicial Police, for the purpose of operational support, can, by order of the court, request the assistance of the Federation of BiH, the RS Judicial Police or the Brcko District of BiH, the State Agency for Investigation and Protection, and the internal affairs authorities of the Federation of BiH, the authorities of the interior offices of the RS and the authorities of the Brcko District of BiH that are obliged to provide the same. So he can ask, which doesn't mean he'll ask. So, this BiH Judicial Police may in any entity, in any city, at any time break into an institution, take the cases, hear, confiscate property or bring in any witness she suspects. So there is no limit to having to seek the opinion of institutions that are already performing their security functions. So this would be the seizure of power, the possible abuse of already existing security institutions in entities. And I don't think this bill has been completed. It is Tendeciozan, with one goal to ignore the existing institutions of government. Practically, this BiH Judicial Police Office represents a federal sheriff who can do anything without consulting anyone and any existing security institutions. So the question arises and the law on criminal proceedings would be done by the BiH police. 93 That's it.
ParlaMint-BA_2010-01-21-1.u31967	Dear Ambassador Remzija Kadrić. Here you go. It's a replica, isn't it?
ParlaMint-BA_2010-01-21-1.u31968	Replica, yes.
ParlaMint-BA_2010-01-21-1.u31969	Okay.
ParlaMint-BA_2010-01-21-1.u31970	So, although there is one here, I believe there is also a legislator who can respond to this finding, in fact, to correct these allegations. There's no new institution being created here. She, therefore, just, here in the light of the Law stands, in the five-year work so far, the Judicial Police have functioned as part of the Justice Department. Now it does not function within the Justice Ministry but only moves to function within the BiH Court. So, it's no new institution, but only it is part of the BiH Court. So there aren't any new institutions here but just crossing this institution into composition... Here the promoter can, I think Srđan can explain even more professionally and quality that, therefore, it's not about any new institution, but only this institution is about to go to court as it should be done.
ParlaMint-BA_2010-01-21-1.u31971	Thank you. Dear Ambassador Šefik Džaferović. Here you go.
ParlaMint-BA_2010-01-21-1.u31972	Dear Chairman, colleagues and colleagues, ladies and gentlemen. I believe that this law needs BiH and that, when it comes to the Court of Justice of BiH's judicial police, I think that would be the real name, should be approached by this change, because the essence of this change is, as can be heard here, that the Court of Justice Police of BiH is not under the jurisdiction of the Justice Ministry, therefore, the executive authorities, but under the authority of the judicial authority, and all the problem is that. And all the point of changing the law is because the entity judicial police are also in the system of supreme entity courts and are, therefore, the judicial authorities, not the executive authorities, not the justice ministries. And that, in fact, is the legislation of this change, it can be seen from the law itself, and everything the BiH Court of Justice Police is doing today, which is under the jurisdiction of the Justice Ministry, it is intended to work and when it is under the authority of the Court of Justice, nothing less and nothing more. Therefore, there is no reason, no one here takes jurisdiction, no authority of the entity is taken. And as for the BiH Court of Justice and the BiH Prosecutor's Office, there are certainly crimes where they react to the entire territory of the country, as well as the SIPA. So are we one country or not? Are we gonna be one country or not? Of course we will, yes. Well, then 94 will answer to the BiH Court of Justice, and then the prosecutor will prosecute before the BiH Court, and then the Judicial Police will go there and execute the warrants. She's not listening to anyone, you know, she's fulfilling the orders of the BiH Court. Nothing more. It protects security and executes the orders of the BiH Court, and that's her job. The SIPA's job is to question BiH's prosecutor's office, etc. That's it, thank you.
ParlaMint-BA_2010-01-21-1.u31973	Dear President, Dr. Milorad Živković.
ParlaMint-BA_2010-01-21-1.u31974	In 24.1.2003, the Law declared Paddy Ashdown, and in June 2003 the Law passed the Parliamentary Assembly of BiH, until we had yet to pass the single rules in 2005, when it was not possible to act on the law of the High Representative until it was confirmed here in the Parliamentary Assembly. I am pleased to mention the positive activities that are happening in entities and that some examples are trying to place themselves at the level of the state, however, the Supreme Court in entities is not the Court of Justice of BiH and it cannot be measured by that, as the police cannot be given, especially cannot be given out of the hands of the Ministry of Justice to the President or the Presidents of the Court of Justice for which, as you all know, we do not have to say specifically how we from the RS think it works. This is the additional authority of the Court ripped out of the Ministry of Justice and further, let me say, strengthening an institution that, I read the way it was formed, doesn't deserve to get it, and we from the SNSD won't vote for that proposal, because at this point, if we can't do it differently, it's best to keep it the way it is now. Dear Ambassador Šefik Džaferović. Here you go.
ParlaMint-BA_2010-01-21-1.u31975	Just for a moment, Mr. Chairman, let me tell you, here's someone else's replicating it while I was standing here, it should have been said then by the chairman of the BiH Council of Ministers that these people from the Justice Department are not suffering there, that they are not making them, that they are not writing us the law. This is a requirement put before BiH when it comes to building a judicial system and it is not here to ask whether someone will accept or accept something because it is the boss or not, but it is simply the way it should be in BiH. And as for the Court and President of the Court of Justice of BiH, Mr. Chairman, as you are to her and me chairing the House of Representatives of the Parliamentary Assembly, yours and my state, so is Mrs. President of the Court and of you and me, and all of us, the President of the Court of State of BiH. Those are the facts, I beg you. Regardless... we're not talking about personal solutions. You've been here for another two months, another man will come, and then he'll go, and then somebody else will come back, and so things change in BiH. Let's, therefore, build a system that we should be building, not tailoring it according to who is now in a position in which an authority in the BiH state is. That's it, thank you.
ParlaMint-BA_2010-01-21-1.u31976	Can I get a reply to the replica?
ParlaMint-BA_2010-01-21-1.u31977	Replica response, Honorable Chairman, Dr. Milorad Živković.
ParlaMint-BA_2010-01-21-1.u31978	Several times, Mr. Džaferović, you said you wouldn't replicate and I don't see why you're up and now you've taught me a lesson about the state of BiH and who the president is. That's not what I was talking about. I was talking about whether we were satisfied, MPs from the RS, when there were topics concerning the work of the Court and the Prosecutor's Office of BiH, with the work of those organisations, and whether or not we had thought to strengthen such institutions as we were not satisfied with during this term. That's what I've been talking about, and don't, please, be more lectured and better informed about it and how the chairman of the BiH Council of Ministers voted on this law because he was against this law. Dear Ambassador Drago Kalabić, replica. Here you go.
ParlaMint-BA_2010-01-21-1.u31980	Very briefly, I did not understand Mr. Džaferović, does he dispute our right to say that we are dissatisfied, that we are dissatisfied with the President of the Court and her work. I don't think he can argue with us and it needs to be challenged, and that's the point. She is where she is, but at the same time, we've shown on several occasions why we're unhappy and why it's not good what she does, it still doesn't change her position. But neither will we give up our arguments, and I know that in one part of the arguments, you will agree. And as for your concern for this efforts of the BiH Council of Ministers, the same cost was also being done by the Census Act that you are today... So if they were suffering over the List Act, let them suffer again about this. Don't make it one principle in the morning and another in the evening. I mean, there's no point, there's no need, it's all in the same bag, and I don't think you should treat yourself that way. So, I think you're still in good shape to (forget your 11 o'clock discussion at this time). I mean, just work is a matter of principle.
ParlaMint-BA_2010-01-21-1.u31981	Replica, Reverend Vesna Šain. Here you go.
ParlaMint-BA_2010-01-21-1.u31982	Here, I will read here a sentence concerning my replica – In the previous five-year work, the Judicial Police have functioned as part of the BiH Ministry of Justice and the work can be assessed as successful. If it was a successful work, why take away those powers and transfer them to the BiH Court? 96
ParlaMint-BA_2010-01-21-1.u31983	Dear Ambassador Remzija Kadrić, replica. Here you go. Or you'll let Mr. Arnaut go, he answered.
ParlaMint-BA_2010-01-21-1.u31984	Come on, then I'll do it.
ParlaMint-BA_2010-01-21-1.u31985	Thank you. Deputy Minister, Mr. Arnaut. Here you go.
ParlaMint-BA_2010-01-21-1.u31986	Dear Chairman, honourable MPs. Let me just say for a moment, it's not a question of establishing a new institution, it's not. So, the Judicial Police exist. The judicial police are acting within the Justice Department. The judicial police are not within the framework of police structures, but is a specific organisational unit that executes the court's orders and executes the duties of the prosecution which are.../a brief suspension of the recording/... of the court's activities. So, the Judicial Police can practically not do any of the warrants on their own. There must be a written order from the court, a written order from the prosecution, and that, therefore, is not disputed. What this is about is that this organisational unit is transferred to the jurisdiction of the court, such as in the jurisdiction of the entity's court, whether it is the RS, whether it is the Federation of BiH. So, the court police in RS are in the jurisdiction of the court, not the justice ministry. As to why we proposed this law, I must say that on the Joint Commission for the Defence and Security of both homes, the truth was not the conclusion, that you do not get me wrong, but were more suggestive that, because the operational judicial police were working on the order of the court and the prosecution, it would be more logical that it was also organisationally within the court. Here, all other solutions are completely, therefore, identical to the existing law, at least as far as authority, uniforms are concerned. All that matters is that the Judicial Police are identical, except that they are logically located where they actually belong, which is the Court of BiH. Thank you.
ParlaMint-BA_2010-01-21-1.u31987	Thank you. Dear Ambassador Remzija Kadrić, replica. Here you go.
ParlaMint-BA_2010-01-21-1.u31988	This isn't a replica of Srđan Arnaut, Deputy Justice Department, it's a replica... (?) microphone not included 97 ...and you, it's not special to you, so the replica of Kalabić. So, yes, you're right, you've shown dissatisfaction with the work, as you said, of the President of the Court. That's perfectly legitimate. But there's one other thing. Your party boss went a little further. Not only did he show public dissatisfaction with the work of the President of the Court but he showed public and dissatisfaction with the existence of a general court and other judges working there, therefore, dissatisfaction with the existence of a court. And in that sense, about your observation and the fact that this court should, in some ways, be viewed by the effectiveness of this work and by the existence of this judicial police. Therefore, things here are quite clear. So this is no new institution, the BiH Court should function in one effective way and (the existence of this judicial police). And the other thing is political motives that you are dissatisfied with both the court and the president.
ParlaMint-BA_2010-01-21-1.u31990	Dear Ambassador Drago Kalabić, respond to the replica. Here you go.
ParlaMint-BA_2010-01-21-1.u31991	I didn't think we'd go that far to the bosses, but while we're at one, we'll go to the other. In his hundred percent story, there is neither court nor clerk nor petty preferable. In a hundred percent story, he told us there was no room for us, not just to deal with judges. So it is that you have now left that story and you have thrown it away, but it is still ringing in your ears, in a hundred percent story, we are none, not just judges, but others. So, when you get to the bosses, then you should always, it would be correct in this parliament to adopt at least a rule to start each of your boss, and then unload a few arguments, because I can't tell my colleague Džaferović because we had some bright moments this year with Mr. Tihić. Then what he does, you and your boss black out, and what little they make deals, so it's not good about the bosses. There were thoughts on the Joint Commission, but not conclusions. I respect the discussion of people who said they thought it was the right thing to do. Mr. Džaferović was tried in the system when there was no judicial police, but all and one convict was found in a rat hole. How did that work? It worked without the court police. _________(?) There was no democracy. Well, it doesn't matter, it worked. But here, the international community has tried various experiments here, so, among other things, one to try to parainstitize one of these institutions. You remember the time here when the police are being ruled by the army, by the territorial defense of the army, so if there's going to be some kind of new security and police agency, then I don't think that's good. It then goes towards the abuse of the new institution, especially by the high representative as he imposed it. It can serve its purpose, but if, even in the present state, we feel that it is going and having other intentions with it, 98 it is not good. And we became sensitive to the fact that certain institutes in these areas were knowingly pushed by the international community, one to abuse, and today we have problems, and one didn't allow them to develop because they didn't develop in the direction that was right for them. That's why we're sensitive when it comes to these things and these issues, because there are currently judicial police, but the fact is that they can be replaced by current police agencies in BiH and do all the work she does. Someone came up with a solution that, here, maybe it's more effective that in certain things the Judicial Police can do, but nowhere does it stand to replace them, like in some systems or some states, that other police agencies do. So there's no question that there's no life without the Judicial Police, I mean it doesn't stand.
ParlaMint-BA_2010-01-21-1.u31993	Dear Ambassador Azra Hadžiahmetović, replica.
ParlaMint-BA_2010-01-21-1.u31994	Well, here, just to say, this really doesn't deserve any replica. Thank you.
ParlaMint-BA_2010-01-21-1.u31995	Dear Ambassador Šefik Džaferović.
ParlaMint-BA_2010-01-21-1.u31996	You see, I don't think things should be banalized to that extent. However, we are talking about the BiH Court of Justice, we are talking about the BiH Judicial Police, we should try. The other thing is whether there's a political here or not. The SNSD won't support this today, what we can do now. I can't do anything about it right now. If I walk on my head, I can't change that. But they're getting the right messages out of it. But I want to say this, so these are all our institutions. The BiH court is neither Meddžidin nor Dragin, nor Barišin, nor the Judicial Police, nor Šefikov, that is all of us, about four million of us living in BiH. And I want to build such institutions in BiH. And that's the only way they can be and let's treat them as such, please.
ParlaMint-BA_2010-01-21-1.u31997	Dear Ambassador Mirko Okolić.
ParlaMint-BA_2010-01-21-1.u31998	Thank you very much. I'm not going out of this box. They say the reasons for passing this law are as follows. The court police were founded by the Law on the BiH Judicial Police, the official messenger and that, etc. I am now asking the promoter and all of us – what is the reason why the new law has been proposed, if it only changes organisationally, when it comes to this judicial police? Here it was possible to go with 99 amendments and additions to the law and say that the judicial police are no longer in the justice ministry but that they are at the Court of Justice and that would be one member changed on one paper, with one explanation and would probably pass. However, what this was about was, or perhaps through, something else was going to happen, and this may not get a passing grade. However, something else is important here and perhaps positive in all of this, that we have started to harmonise once and the laws at BiH level with the laws of the entities, because they have proved to be both good laws and that entity laws can be good and that they need to be brought into line with the state law. Therefore, make sure that everything from the entity is no longer transferred as jurisdiction to the state, but that what is positive can be used and left behind. Thank you.
ParlaMint-BA_2010-01-21-1.u31999	Thank you. Dear Ambassador Slavko Jovičić. Here you go.
ParlaMint-BA_2010-01-21-1.u32000	Thank you, Your Honor. (Well, I know, from the past system, if anything, I've been through a lifetime until I became a politician), in security structures they think I know something, now I don't know. Up until now, the Judicial Police, not her name, has been guarding the building, the prison, and has not been driving with cars that have huge letters of "Court Police". _________(?) [[microphone is not enabled]]
ParlaMint-BA_2010-01-21-1.u32001	Please don't throw it away.
ParlaMint-BA_2010-01-21-1.u32002	So it was called the Prison Guard then, and now we've given her the name "Court Police". _________(?) [[no microphone turned on]] Okay, it's two different institutions. We've got some SIPAs, some entity, some cantonal MUPs, a little Brcko District, a little agency for some others, and now we've got this agency. Which one? Under the proposal of this law, amendments and additions, he has the authority to enter somewhere. Now the President of the Court will decide where they're going to enter. Whether they break into the house, take the paperwork or beat up a priest at the Palace, or I don't know anyone else walking anywhere else, that's what the President of the Court will decide. And the SIPA will, meanwhile, remain on the sidelines, which 100 is the only one in charge of doing these jobs, so from the police structures, the agency that, well, works that way on the FBI principle, as I call it, because they have entity MUPs, I said, and cantonal, now this police are going to do it. Now I ask, when he gets a warrant from the President of the Court or the Prosecutor's Office, this Judicial Police are about to break in somewhere, and someone wants to get some information before, and he's racing, so the SIPA goes in, and now they're fighting who's supposed to break in. They were both sore and they didn't do anything, and they beat each other up. Because I like information, information is the most expensive product today. The market sells wartime tapes, they have a huge price. Now who's gonna be in charge of saying, you're not me? The President of the Court of Justice of BiH should probably be bigger than the head of the SIPA, so he'll say SIPA, don't get involved there, I'll tell you where they're going. Now that is the introduction of a non-cut business body into a new system of social self-defense, as it used to be called. That's what it was called, that's what it was called. Now, when all this comes to fruition, this court police will call the SIPA intervention because they don't have those "maricas". Now we have to get the Justice Police to bring in those civilian cars. Now, my people, we're masters in the accumulation of these institutions, and no one asks what their really functional activity is, and if they have the results of us rewarding them from the budget, to give up our one monthly salary and say, bravo, you're working in the interest of citizens' safety, this is a safe state, you're guarding the border, the security system, the normal people, that it doesn't happen anywhere in these... Now, seriously, if I'm in my next term, and I'm going to be chosen for sure, to continue this practice, I'm really afraid of what legacy will remain behind this call, who's doing extraordinary work? This House is doing a great job. But tonight's information, of the predicted 120 laws, adopted 14. And no one knows someone pushed this on us. Where am I gonna adopt this, where am I gonna accept this? So, Mr. Džaferović, in order not to replicate later, this is not the SNSD thing. This is a matter of sound logic. Let's not pile up without the connection of institutions that are unnecessary. We're taking the SIPA's intel, and we want to strengthen SIPA. So what do we do? So let's strengthen the agency that will deliver the result, not the one that will prevent SIPA, and SIPA will stop them. Now that's the point that this can't really get support and what this is proposing to us and who's proposing all of this, I know how it's coming, but, I don't want to insult anyone, I have one syntagma, I am, people, I've been in a camp, you all know, but I haven't been in a madhouse that I can accept any stupidity. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-BA_2010-01-21-1.u32004	First Deputy Chairman, Mr. Niko Lozančić. Here you go.
ParlaMint-BA_2010-01-21-1.u32005	Thank you, fellow president. Well, I thought, I must say, this law will pass without any debates, to be honest, and that's why I answered even though I thought, when I see the reasons now, I have to say that I don't understand the reasons for the opposition. That's why I answered, no matter what, I don't mean anyone... everyone has their opinions. But indeed, some of the floscules that don't stand are used, they have nothing to do with the law that's in the proposal. First, the institution we're talking about already exists, so it already works, it works, and it will work whether we pass this law today. Second, she's still called the Judicial Police today. 101 She still performs the tasks of the BiH Court today, not the minister of justice, only within the justice ministry. I, too, am experiencing a proposal to amend this law, i.e. the adoption of this new law only as the removal of an absolute illogicality, that one institution operates in the composition of the ministry, and that it performs tasks for a completely different institution that acts equally on the basis of the law. And I must, for the sake of correctness, the judicial police are not acting by order of the President or the President of the Court, but by order of the court, i.e., in the particular case of each council, judges, etc. I mean, there's no reason, we can vote this law, we can bring it down, but I really don't think it's worth it on this law that, in my opinion, one illogical situation brings into one logical state, that any instruments are being spent. I think it's more correct to support this law, and if there are any objections, here, in the second reading, through the amendment phase to influence it to be even better than it already is. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-BA_2010-01-21-1.u32006	Chairman Živković, incorrect allegations.
ParlaMint-BA_2010-01-21-1.u32007	Article 4 of the proposed Law – President of the Court of Justice of the Court of Justice, under 1. Under 2. – For the operational work of the Judicial Police, the Head of the Judicial Police responsible for his work is the President of the Court. A drastic difference compared to the previous one in which he responded to the ministry of justice, submitted a report, (Justice Ministry, in the Council of Ministers' assembly), the difference drastically. The President of the Court isn't in anyone's system and we can't accept that right now.
ParlaMint-BA_2010-01-21-1.u32008	Replica reply, First Deputy Chairman Mr. Lozančić.
ParlaMint-BA_2010-01-21-1.u32009	It's not a reply to the replica, it's a response to the alleged correction of an incorrect quote. I will quote the provisions of Article 5, in which he says – The Court of Justice executes the orders of the Court of Justice of BiH. I said it and it says it in the law. Therefore, the Court Police, in accordance with the provisions, assists in co-operation with insights, etc., all by order of the court. So I didn't say anything else, and it says here, so I don't think it's problematic.
ParlaMint-BA_2010-01-21-1.u32010	Šefik, you have a discussion, two replicas, do you have a need?
ParlaMint-BA_2010-01-21-1.u32011	microphone not enabled
ParlaMint-BA_2010-01-21-1.u32012	Okay, thanks. We're closing the debate. Moving to point seven, Ad. Seven. Proposal for a Law on Amendments and Supplements to the Law on the Public TV System of BiH – Proposer: Council of Ministers of BiH (first reading) At the 64th session, the dom did not accept the Commission's negative opinion, so the law was returned to the commission to deliver a new opinion. The competent Commission for Transport and Communications delivered its opinion on 29 December 12 and this time supported the principles of the Law. I'm opening a debate on the bill in the first reading. Dear Ambassador Slavko Matić. Here you go.
ParlaMint-BA_2010-01-21-1.u32014	Thank you. Here, I will, on behalf of the Committee that you mentioned, given that I was on the occasion of chairing the session when we discussed these laws again and in order to speed up this session, Mr. President, if you and the others agree to this, I suggest that the joint debate on points 7, 8, and 9, because it is absolutely the same topic, the amendments and additions to the three laws that aim at one and the same thing, which is to ensure gender equal representation in the governing bodies, i.e. in decision-making bodies in these institutions and in these areas. At the re-session of the Committee on Transport and Links on this subject, we gave a positive opinion because, in the meantime, the doubt we had on the Committee and on the occasion of the debate at this House of Representatives was resolved, whether it is possible to ensure that Article 30(2) could be implemented. The law on gender equality in all laws, in a way that changes the Law on Gender Equality and that is an imperative obligation for all others. We have received the answer that this is not possible, that it is only possible through changes and additions of the laws in question when they are considered. This time we are considering these three, which came to the proposal and initiative of the Council of Ministers of BiH, but also of the initiative and of our Committee on Gender Equality, or the Gender Equality Agency. And at the Committee, we have also concluded that, in addition to the positive opinion and, I suppose, the acceptance in the first reading of these laws here at the PSBiH House of Representatives today, we propose to make sure that all future amendments and additions to the law, which will be discussed by the Parliamentary Assembly of BiH, are kept in these amendments and complements and changes and additions which will go in the direction of ensuring gender equality as regulated by the Gender Equality Act Article 30(2). Thank you very much. 103
ParlaMint-BA_2010-01-21-1.u32015	I thank Mr. Matić. He reminded us and gave us very useful information on what it was about. I suggest that first of all, in a way, do you agree that the debate on points 7, 8, and 9, we conduct ourselves uniquely. Of course, when we declare ourselves, we will declare each amendment and the addition of the law in particular. If you don't mind, then consider us having a unique debate on points 7, 8, and 9. Ad. 8. Proposal for a Law on Amendments and Supplements to the Law on the Public TV Service of BiH – Proposer: Council of Ministers of BiH (first reading) Ad. Nine. Proposal for a Law on Amendments and Supplements to the Communication Act – Proposer: Council of Ministers of BiH (first reading) So it's all about amendments to the law in the direction of gender equality. Here, let's go to the press releases. Branko Dokić. Here you go.
ParlaMint-BA_2010-01-21-1.u32017	Thank you very much. Because Slavko said a lot of things I wanted to say, I'll just say three sentences. Since even in the first debate, and also in the second debate in the commission that discussed it, there was no disputed need for this to be incorporated into the law, it was only a dilemma whether it was necessary by this general law, or, behold, through special laws. Slavko said and the dilemma was resolved and my suggestion is that we don't waste much time on something that we seem all agree to go on. Thank you very much. So, a recommendation to support these three laws.
ParlaMint-BA_2010-01-21-1.u32018	Thank you, Mr. Dokić. Here, I have Mr. Novaković's report. Here you go, Mr. Novaković.
ParlaMint-BA_2010-01-21-1.u32019	Here, I'll take Mr. Dokić's suggestion and I'll take it very briefly. In fact, some of the dilemmas, here are the president and the gentleman from the Commission, trying to clarify how it is possible that at one point the commission votes with 3 votes in favour, 3 against, and the next time unanimously supports the same principles of the same law? It's not exactly this argument that's very convincing. I must say that the commission probably had, either in mind, or the members of the Commission could have taken into account the fact that it is not really possible by one law to order, practically ultimately, the application of a provision in other laws, because, in the end, it is said in the Law on Gender Equality. 104 However, I find it interesting that the Council of Ministers of BiH has chosen the laws from which the provisions of the Gender Equality Act will begin. I'd like to know if the rest of the laws will come together, why just these three and why not everyone else? Here's why in the Judicial Police, it was just before the Law, it's not meant for there to be cops and women and men alike, 50-50. If we're talking gender equality. Why don't we apply in all... why we chose... here, I'd like to know from the Proposer, no, ma'am... you're not the Proposer, the Proposer is the Council of Ministers of BiH, I'd like to know why he, here, accepted the suggestion to come from these three laws, why not from some other laws. Look, I think we're out of line, so that's my free opinion, in some of this stuff. Finally, we came to closed lists just to choose the appropriate number of women in parliament. It seems that we will come to that, not to provide quality personnel here in this House. Of course, I know that with this I'm going to cause certain replicas and I'm fully aware of it. But here, I want to do it on purpose, so I took it on purpose to talk this way because I expect we'll get to see why CEMT licenses are shared in a way that doesn't respect gender equality.
ParlaMint-BA_2010-01-21-1.u32020	Please, sit in your seats, the session is in progress, you've turned your back on the chairman and you're talking. Mr. Jašarević, it doesn't really make sense.
ParlaMint-BA_2010-01-21-1.u32021	Here, we could ask for gender equality with CEMT. Maybe in a different way, in fact, I wanted to ask a question. And the question is much simpler. Can we provide all the laws in this country with something that voters do not want to provide with their votes, those who close behind that screen and circle and who have the opportunity to round up in one way or another? I'm putting this as a dilemma, of course, and I know what kind of answer I'll probably get. And finally, look, here, now I'm interested, I'd like to make no mistake. Article 44a) – In identifying functions, titles and titles will be used a gender sensitive language. I wouldn't want to make a mistake and use a gender insensitive language, but I'd like to know what that means? I'd like someone to explain to me now, I just wrote a conclusion so some people called the directors of directors, agencies, etc., did I do it right or should I have called the directors and directors and MPs and MPs? Which means, then, the gender sensitive language or I obviously need to go to some training, so to send me with these more beautiful sexes to some seminar where I... (?) But he's paid. ...paid, of course, where I would learn what a gender-sensitive language means and some other expressions here. 105 Thank you.
ParlaMint-BA_2010-01-21-1.u32023	You went to the finish line, but, well, you promised Momo you wouldn't, but, look, you did two lines. So, Mirjana Malić, replica.
ParlaMint-BA_2010-01-21-1.u32024	Mr. Chairman, colleagues and colleagues. I really thought that today, at least as far as these three points of the agenda are concerned, there wouldn't be any issue, but I really do. Describing both the Commission and the debate in this House, the reasons why the Commission on Gender Equality initiated these amendments, the agency prepared, with its legal service, the BiH Council of Ministers, and they adopted as their proposal, and I said, as part of its activities last year, our Commission had a number of public hearings, i.e. public debates on certain issues. One of the first public debates that we have held, which is about the media, is, in fact, why for the media, here is the answer to Mr Novaković's suspicion just posted. He says, can we provide our own laws in this country with a change of voter views? Well, it is precisely the task of those who are fighting for the equal position of women in the Bosnian Herzegovina society to build, with the help of a proper presentation of women's opportunities and women's activities, and in public opinion, a different idea of women's participation in political life, even among voters, if not among the elected current officials, as we now want to say. It is precisely the way of our country's organisation, the structure of the level and the intelligence of the authorities that has given our Commission the opportunity to discuss with the representatives of the electronic media, which make up public service and the public system, that we have come to the conclusion that one of the sets of competencies at the state level is also these three laws. And that's why it started... And I wouldn't go any further, about the jender sensitive language, about the meaning of the word jender, I've already had an attempt to explain to Mr. Novaković, but I know that he's well-intentioned and that this is just a well-intentioned provocation, that we don't go to extremes. Don't be afraid, because I'm telling you that there are equally high-quality and women in the Bosnian hergic population as I believe there are high-quality and responsible men and we can't be competition with each other. We could just be each other's support.
ParlaMint-BA_2010-01-21-1.u32025	Azra Hadžiahmetović, replica.
ParlaMint-BA_2010-01-21-1.u32026	Well, here's a colleague of Novaković's who mentioned earlier that the closed lists, related to the previous debate on the Law of Conflict of Interest, are in the interest of women. Well, I mentioned earlier that he might have taken one step forward, but that's why a few steps back. So regardless of these 106 small shifts, there are many more who question the whole process for which, of course, the proposal is whether, for the opinion of the Venice Commission. I wouldn't comment on the gender, as you said, sensual language, but I would suggest that we, who live in parallel with the Law on Gender Equality, already know the basic alphabet, but I would suggest that you not go to this training with fellow Members of Parliament, but that you go with colleagues from Parliament.
ParlaMint-BA_2010-01-21-1.u32027	Mirko Okolić, replica.
ParlaMint-BA_2010-01-21-1.u32028	Thank you, Mr. Chairman. Mrs. Malić, an honourable Member and colleague, said that we believe that we should believe that there are equal quality women, in this case a woman is said, although here we are talking about less represented sexes. He could be a man and a woman. He's got the same quality, but the same men, and you said the woman. However, no one slowed it down or I slowed it down. But I ask another question – Is there a law somewhere or regulation that women are discriminated against by that law or men in some others, in the military? Because they're mostly men. Why, mainly when war is men, is there anyone to ban a woman from being a soldier then, or is there now some law that forbids a woman to be at any level of responsibility at the means of information or at any other level in BiH? If that were the case, I would raise both my hands if that law changed and the law regulated equality. And like this, it seems to me that a quality solution should be imposed, of course there will be something else to express, and in the election (it is known to be a solution to the quality of thinking of the voters themselves), etc., etc. Thank you.
ParlaMint-BA_2010-01-21-1.u32029	Let's move on. This has opened nicely. Denis Bećirović.
ParlaMint-BA_2010-01-21-1.u32030	I'll be very brief.
ParlaMint-BA_2010-01-21-1.u32031	I know you won't, but there you go.
ParlaMint-BA_2010-01-21-1.u32032	After these discussions of colleagues, I understand why AFZ concluded in 1947 – without emancipation of men there is no emancipation of women. 107
ParlaMint-BA_2010-01-21-1.u32033	Thank you. So it was all very, very interesting and constructive. Finalising debate on points 7, 8 and 9. We're moving on to Dot 10, Ad. Ten. Proposal for a Law on Amendments and Supplements to the Act on Classification of Activities in BiH – Proposer: Council of Ministers of BiH (first reading) At the 69th session, we adopted the motion that the Law be considered in a shortened procedure. The Constitutional Legal Commission delivered Opinion 19.1. The Joint Commission for European Integration also delivered its opinion on the principles of the law. So, I'm opening a debate on the law in first reading. I don't have any reports, those who hesitate, if they're willing to sign up. There isn't. I'm closing the debate on point 10. Moving to point 11, Ad. 11. Proposal for a law supplementing the Criminal Law of BiH – Proposer: MP Denis Bećirović (first reading)
ParlaMint-BA_2010-01-21-1.u32036	Dear Chairman, colleagues and colleagues. Here, let me give some initial explanations to the Social Democratic Party's proposal to amend and supplement the Kiwi Law and the motives that led us to build this proposal in the SDP. 108 As you could see from the Opinion that came from the Council of Ministers of BiH, as you could see from the Opinions that came from the Directorate for European Integration, in the extreme line and from the proposal and the explanation of the amendment and the addition of the law that is now before us, it is, in fact, the need to write penalties for the founders of fascist organisations, for those who serve symbols that speak of racial, religious and other forms of hatred and spread such ideology and in the end line do not choose a place or time, from public sports competitions to public manifestations, i.e., it is our opinion that this part, so to say, illegal and harmful activities, which everywhere in the world is incriminated or positioned as something that constitutes a violation or criminal act, still does not have an adequate space. As you could see in the light of the Directorate for European Integration, in addition to a clear indication that this is not a binding act regarding the EU, they stress, too, or at least, that if the word is too heavy, that the Council of Europe, whose counterpart, Hadžiahmetović, has just pointed out, is an equal member, in its 2008 Framework Decision, or November 2008, which concerns the fight against certain forms and expressions of racism and xenophobia, through criminal law requires that racism and xenophobia be punished. And that is how they are treated as crimes, and that is exactly what the bill states, the promotion, the spread, the disrespect, etc., and that is exactly what it says. I have something else to say, and that is that, by analysing the legislation of EU member states, there is a claim listed here by the director of the agency, that they... are mostly regulated by constitutional, criminal or special law. However, I find it somewhat illogical that in the same act which states that, apart from Austria that has been resolved by the Constitution, and the Holandija, not the Netherlands, but Belgium that has this special law, in all those countries, from (Austria), Denmark, Spain, France, Germany, the Netherlands, Portugal, all this issue is settled through criminal law. So our basic intensity was to try this with our proposal and, with your participation, install it into the provisions of Criminal Law. It's true, it's... The justice ministry says it is the opinion that criminal law experts should evaluate and define this incriminating operation. We have no intention of contesting the right of criminal rights experts to do so, and they can do so in the next instance, correcting our proposal, will be neither the first nor the last law that will not pass any changes and additions, but we think it is inadmissible that there is no legal regulation in our country and that it is not sanctioned as a criminal offence. Here, for starters so much. I hope there's a chance we can still talk about it tonight.
ParlaMint-BA_2010-01-21-1.u32037	Thank you. So we're at point 11. Proposal for a law supplementing the Criminal Code. As far as I can tell, there are no more reports. Dear Ambassador Drago Kalabić? Come on, come on.
ParlaMint-BA_2010-01-21-1.u32038	I'm sorry, I may have been a little late, but I had, given that it was a very important law, a criminal law, and in every country a revision of the Criminal Law, as one of the so-called so-called. The tough laws, they draw attention and the very change of the score means a lot to experts and experts. And anyone who proposes these changes, I guess they know what they want with these changes and that they know what these changes are all about and that they can explain to everyone, to those who maybe at this point 109 are not immediately clear. Also, I believe that the substance and the proposal to amend the Criminal Law must be so precise that it leaves no room for doubt when it is applied, so I would like some information from the promoter. I asked for it at a session of the Constitutional Commission, however, Mr Bećirović avoided saying, what is meant by these organisations and how it will look in practice. Which works will be held accountable because we must not leave doubt to the judges, so that the judges, the citizens and all others to whom the disputed incrimination will apply, when tried for these acts, everything must be clear to them until the last word. So, what kind of organizations are these, how it's going to manifest, what actions people are going to answer for, etc. I'd like to ask the Proposer to answer those questions.
ParlaMint-BA_2010-01-21-1.u32039	Thank you. Dear Ambassador Momčilo Novaković, discussion. Here you go.
ParlaMint-BA_2010-01-21-1.u32040	Well, I have a quick question. I think I got bored today. In fact, I'm curious as to why the motionary, in addition to these works, did not propose members who condemn those who glorify totalitarian and communist systems? So we know in the previous system what the victims of that system were. And it would have been good if we had taken a comprehensive look at this problem, of course, I fully respect the wish and intention of my SDP colleagues to define this issue, but it would have been good if, in the context of this and with regard to clearing up with the past, it didn't have to be in line with that resolution that I have proposed in my own time, but that they had suggested that the simple expansion of these totalitarian systems, which have brought enough evil, trouble and sacrifice, would also be a criminal offence and that criminal sanctions be prescribed. I can be smaller, bigger, it's now a matter of feeling and the sensitivity of the promoter, but, in any case, to define it as a crime.
ParlaMint-BA_2010-01-21-1.u32041	Thank you. Dear Ambassador Denis Bećirović. Here you go.
ParlaMint-BA_2010-01-21-1.u32042	I would first like to thank the Constitutional Commission for, with six votes in favour and without any vote against, supporting the constitutional basis for the adoption of this law and for realizing that the law is in line with the BiH Constitution and the BiH legal system. I remind you, therefore, that neither at the Constitutional Commission session was anyone against this law. True, three colleagues were abstentions, but not against this law. The Directorate for European Integration has also given its testimony on this law, and it has been positively manifested in this regard. It also calls for the Council of Europe to make a Framework Decision in the fight against certain forms and expressions of racism and xenophobia and notes that the EU countries have regulated this issue in three ways. Either the ban on fascist and neo-fascist organisations in the EU regulated the constitutions of those countries, or criminal laws or special laws. So in one of these three ways, this issue is regulated in the EU, which we are seeking. 110 It is not good that in BiH we still haven't regulated this issue with either the Constitution or the Criminal Law or any special law. I personally believe that the time has come to regulate this important area, because modern Europe is resting on anti-fascist foundations and BiH is resting on anti-fascist foundations and these are the foundations of BiH, the peoples of BiH and the citizens of BiH. In fact, there were several questions in this debate, but the main issue that we, as MPs of the PSBiH House of Representatives, should all ask together today is why the Council of Ministers did not act in line with the conclusion of the House of Representatives. I remind you, two years ago, when I proposed that initiative to pass a special law on the ban on fascist and non-fascist organisations, the initiative did not go through, but you just proposed a conclusion and voted on the SDP Club at that time by tasking the BiH Council of Ministers to make a special law within three months. And as we can see, two years later, the BiH Council of Ministers did absolutely nothing to bring such a single law here into parliamentary procedure for consideration at the House of Representatives. I think it is a key issue, because that conclusion is voted by the will and votes of all MPs here at the House of Representatives. It is important here to remind that this law cannot change our past and this law to us and should not be for the sake of the past. This law needs to be done for our children and for their more certain futures. This law should guarantee in the future any child in this country – Serbian, Croatian, Bosniak, Jewish or other, that there is no danger that in 5, 10, or I don't know how many years from now any fascist or non-fascist organization that came from anyone in this country. And that's what we should be directed at getting the best solutions when it comes to this problem. I would be delighted if I hadn't had to write on behalf of the club this text of the law, that the BiH Council of Ministers did as you ordered the Council of Ministers. But it's not. And it would really be a shame if this four-year term were up to us, and there's still 6-7 months left, and we don't pass one of these important laws for every man in this country. When it comes to what we're treating under a fascist organization. The number of definitions that talk about it is really big. And it's interesting that there are dozens of definitions of fascism, but very little is the definition of antifascism. For example, the Constitution of Italy said what is meant by fascist parties. It says that the fascist party is considered an association, a movement, a group that counts more than 5 members and follows the anti-democratic goals of the fascist party, using force, threatening force as a political method, propagating or advocating the asphyxiation of freedoms guaranteed by the constitution, insulting the democratic order, its institutions and, very importantly, insulting the resistance movement. There are a number of other definitions, but we have very little definition of what an antifascist movement is. One of the most accepted definitions of the anti-fascist movement in most European countries says that under the anti-fascist resistance movement in World War II in Europe, movements that have emerged in opposing the Nazi occupation and the Quislin regimes are understood. And in this catalogue of anti-fascist movements in Europe, what criteria need to be met to represent the anti-fascist movement. So it is said that we would declare someone an anti-fascist movement, he had to provide passive resistance, active resistance to fascism, Partizan struggle and, as the highest form, a massive national liberation war against fascism. If we take and start from these definitions of anti-fascism and what are the criteria to declare someone to be indeed an anti-fascist movement, which I say is settled in European countries, then it would not be difficult, by these criteria, to reach a solution in BiH as well. 111 Of course, I want to remind you this time, I have a transcript here with the 28th session of the PSBiH House of Representatives. And here in that transcript is the full debate we've had on this subject. And I'm not going to quote here, but a whole series of debaters, I'm not even going to name now, he said, in that debate, two years ago, everything's fine with that law, but don't say which are specifically fascist organisations in BiH, because if there's no such thing as concrete, then we would have accepted that law, too. I remind you, the BiH Council of Ministers has not done its part of the job, but here is a second proposal to regulate this matter, which, as it is offered, is a very good basis for me to accept this law in the first reading, that, if we agree, we open a possible public debate. We have a second reading, we can also do a commission, we can possibly specify amendments to some things that are not specific enough for someone, but I will end up with the fact that it is of foreign importance that we, by means of our legislation, resolve this issue as well as the EU countries, from Italy, Germany and beyond, that we do not list other countries. Thank you.
ParlaMint-BA_2010-01-21-1.u32043	Thank you. Dear Ambassador Drago Kalabić, replica. Here you go.
ParlaMint-BA_2010-01-21-1.u32044	We're out of answers again. When we said that BiH and other countries were not the same, where we were lucky that it was the same in technical terms and it would be easier for all of us. You of the SDP often like to play these comparisons, and you ignore the fact that BiH is a specific country and how different things look here than in some other countries. It is quite clear and easy to do in one Germany, we talked about it when the legislator defined it in a very clear way. You've entered the criminal code here. Amendments to the Criminal Code include sanctions for a criminal offence. People need to know, in our law there is no, let's say, death sentences and people have the right to legally stand up for the death penalty, to be in law and to write precisely for those and those acts are pronounced capital punishment and will be executed in that way and in that way. And it must be unequivocally clear for what actions, not the death penalty, so we'll see why. And then that leaves a question to people, they don't know why she's going to say it. In your law, it remains unsettled, which in some cases makes us doubt whether it is for the daily political needs, because you have not read the views of the Ministry of Justice, where people have said – this is such a delicate question that it requires the engagement of a group of experts, and people admit that this is a difficult issue to define. I admire that you tried, but then you have to define until the end, if you've already taken it to propose the amendments to the law itself. And that it is known then, because you've taken to propose the law, which I respect, but then I will, as someone who, who needs to decide on it, or citizens who want to see changes to the law, to know what's ahead of them. So it's quite clear, in Germany, the one who wears Hitler's picture and the cowardly cross goes to jail. Forcibly sanctioned and no dilemma is left. I asked you, to translate to Cyrillic now, so I asked you on the Constitutional Commission, here, as an ordinary citizen, what do you SDP think? Here, Slavko Jovičić is a glory of baptism today, tonight will be sung tonight, can some songs at his glory get him stuck in jail tonight on SDP's proposal? 112 _________(?) [[no microphone turned on]] Yeah, well, I'm asking whoever's proposing the law. So, according to the promoter, will people in BiH, who will carry different versions of chess around BiH, carry different versions of the two-headed eagle with no symbols, I want to hear from you whether these people will answer, is that your position, is that your opinion? Anyone who sings songs about drag Mihajlović, will people be stuck in jail? _________(?) [[no microphone turned on]]
ParlaMint-BA_2010-01-21-1.u32047	Time.
ParlaMint-BA_2010-01-21-1.u32048	And I'm ending up, if you wanted the old SDP tradition of dying big things in the day-to-day political mud, that's what you'll get. But we expect an honest answer from you on these questions and to say – is that why people should respond or not, do you think they are such organizations? And I don't know, since you've already taken that to suggest, which is a problem for you to tell us, you're as a pronoun to tell us your position on whether it should be sanctioned, it's a very serious topic. And I only support it, and that's where I give you credit, that you've caught up with that subject, but you have to push it through now. To know, let's see what's going on and then we can do it, and the cat in the bag offer citizens through Criminal Law, and that couldn't happen anywhere, and no country you were talking about has offered a cat in a bag.
ParlaMint-BA_2010-01-21-1.u32049	Time.
ParlaMint-BA_2010-01-21-1.u32050	The criminal law must be precise and fully clear to the last point.
ParlaMint-BA_2010-01-21-1.u32051	Thank you. 113 Adem Huskić, replica. Here you go.
ParlaMint-BA_2010-01-21-1.u32052	Thank you. I'm replicating my colleague Kalabić. Here, we just passed the law, that is, discussing the laws on the jender sensitive expression, well, I mean, if it can be a cat, it can be a cat in a bag, Drago. But it wasn't my basic motive. In part of his replica or discussion, a colleague said that BiH is a very specific country and I agree it is. But I think sometimes we make it more specific than it should be with our own approaches. I'm convinced that no one in this room, but I'm truly convinced that no one would support fascism or support it. If we accept this law, we will, in that way, I think, demonstrate that we do not support fascism, if we reject it, whether we want it or not, there will be a message that, however, we have some kind of backup to do so. I think that this way we would send a very bad message to both our citizens and the whole world, completely unnecessary and without the intention of doing so. So, I suggest we support the principles, and I agree, if there is some uncertainty or some inaccuracies to repair them in phase two. As far as he's concerned, drago also said, who's wearing a picture of Hitler in Germany that he'll be punished. I think he should be with us too. And now, is it, we have no elements... So, in Germany, he can't wear it, and this way he can. And as for Draže Mihajlović, I think whoever is celebrating him should be responsible for it, because Draža Mihajlović was convicted as a war criminal, an associate of fascism, and I don't think it is controversial. But I suggest we adopt the principles and write the amendments and adopt them. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-BA_2010-01-21-1.u32053	Slavko Jovičić. Here you go.
ParlaMint-BA_2010-01-21-1.u32054	Thank you, Mr. Chairman. Well, when we talked about this two years ago, I followed in the media later, it was a really big face. And I remember well, you can also look at the stenogram, what I said then, and now I'm going to do it again. Srbin have made a huge contribution to the fight against fascism, (not denying) the contribution of other peoples never. I remember what I said back then, I'll do it again. But then, too, I asked who would determine which fascist organization it was. So I quoted, I remember, for example, mentioning, someone now said, fellow Huskić, Draže Mihajlović, the Amerikanac gave him the greatest medal. May I enter a conflict with Obam over Draže Mihajlović whom no bones have found, they do not know where his bones are. If this were to be heard in Parliament, to replicate to a respected colleague, and also to the head of klub Kalabić, it is no longer the song that would make me feel guilty – Rašo, sići, get off the mountain. The man on the plain, in The Hague, is no longer current, used to be until they found him. So, that music won't be heard, I'm, by the way, singing sevdalins, the repertoire's a little going out of Serbia, of course, well 114 I'm singing, because it's the space that's been connecting us musically and it won't bother us, and none of this song will be, and if I have to record all those songs and deliver as evidence, so no one has to worry about what's going to happen. And just to get back to this, colleague Bećirović, so that someone doesn't challenge us tomorrow that we, or I support, don't give Bog, I Fascism, what I will support, so I will fight as long as I'm alive if there's anywhere. But someone has to tell me what a fascist organization it is, that I'm going to go, which I have little of this power left, since I have health problems, but happiness is more important than health today, and I've found that, I said last time, they were all healthy and rich at Titanik, but they were not lucky and what happened happened, so, happiness. Now, tell me, Mr. Bećirović, which is a fascist organization that I'm going against this moment like, not to compare, God Bog, that they're fascists, against this transparenti, but by political struggle, no, I'm stressing because of the stenograms so that there wouldn't be, God Bog I have a mind to compare these two organizations, but to go politically and to say these aren't good at this, and to the fascists that I'm fighting them, but someone has to tell me who they are, which organization. That's the point. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-BA_2010-01-21-1.u32055	Thank you. Drago Kalabić, replica second.
ParlaMint-BA_2010-01-21-1.u32056	Here, he took a colleague, Jovičić, although he could have easily called for glory so that we could hear those songs, rather than him bringing the video. But, well, I did it last night, so I'm... Here, you saw from this debate what a dilemma we have and why the BiH Council of Ministers said it was a delicate question that experts must, historians and others to balance their position and to give it, which we also insisted on last time. And it is critical of the BiH Council of Ministers, I stand behind it, that it has not done its job. People gave an explanation why they didn't, because they think it's a very heavy substance. But since you've already put it in the process, then we need to talk about it, because here's the situation. Now Mr. Huskić said that he believes that's why someone should answer. So we should move on now, I asked for the chess room, I'd like to hear the answers to those questions, those who think they're capable of creating this question completely and offering it. I, you'll never hear from the SNSD that we're against such a law, but when we come to debate the essence, if we see that it's an abuse of daily policy purposes, that it's not based on historical or any other facts, then we have a problem. And that's why there was more and more to talk about until the situation when it was brought here or to answer these questions. Indeed, here are any MPs, whether as citizens I am interested in, because you must allow courts to tell people, because you are putting a member in the law. And that you have this situation whether or not Mr. Huskić said for you, that you think that you should answer for it, but then you have to say this courage -- that for these, for these and these things we think people should respond, for these we don't think we should, we think these are fascist organizations, these we don't think are and, as Mr. Jovičić says, we're saying that. But this is how a cat or a cat in a tied bag push that we create around here every time, I don't think it's right, it's not productive, and you know it well, you knew the outcome of that story in advance, and that's why you're, and you're not the other part that was necessary, the integral part of the amendments to the law that this would be complete and that you might be able to discuss, so you didn't even offer 115, because you know that's a difficult answer to that question. You avoided him. Here, little Mr. Huskić has offered some answers that we have, we have no idea of agreeing. So it doesn't occur to us. That way, if we're going to bid it, now we're sitting in Parliament in three minutes and we write it down there some organizations, I don't feel able to do it now, and I think someone else should do it.
ParlaMint-BA_2010-01-21-1.u32057	Thank you. Denis Bećirović, replica. Here you go.
ParlaMint-BA_2010-01-21-1.u32058	I believe that even in this debate, there is no, at least verbally, fundamental disagreement about this law, and I think that, if there is political will, that he could go through the first reading today, that we could possibly open a public debate and that in the public debate we could present a series of opinions on this issue, and also during the second reading and amendments afterwards fix certain provisions. I've had a stenogram here since 29 April 2008. And here, I've opened up Mr. Kalabić to your discussion. Then you said the following, I quote you – This is a sensitive question and this law could be accepted if it were to be rephrased, it would be good if this law had the name of the Law prohibiting all non-fascist organizations and the use of their symbols, and the point. And here, now you've been offered just like that law in that formulation, and you're now asking in this version to return that first version of which you are, here I read you a stenogram of what you said about the first version. So let's not begin to suspect that we're looking for hair in the egg, to bring down this law. I'm already opening the possibility, this law if it really goes through in the first reading there are a million mechanisms that it can be stopped, but it'll be a really bad message if we take it down in the first reading. The other thing, I expect, is that you are here in one part and admitted, why the BiH Council of Ministers did not pass such a law for these two years, it was mandatory. That is the conclusion of the BiH Parliament, that is what you asked to adopt such a conclusion and, behold, there is no proposal. I've tried to create one basis that we can talk about, I've tried to make that first text so that it can discuss this issue. Besides, it's not just me, or the SDP Club, that we're discussing this, this isn't gonna be anyone's personal law, it's the law of the citizens of this country. Here, I ask you a question, as an equal MP in this House, that you also help me a little bit so you can answer my question – are the Ustasha movements, the hangar division, according to you fascist organizations? If you just give me an answer to this question, it'll be easier for me to supplement this law, because maybe others will give evidence to other organizations. Here, if you can answer only this precise question – are the Ustasha movements, the Hangar Division, something that represents fascism or those who follow neofascism today in BiH? And not to open big stories today, we have already reached Draže Mihajlović, I don't know if you know it but Draža Mihajlović was relieved of the functions of the commander of the Kingdom Armed Forces in Yugoslavia on 29 August 1944 by the decision of King Aleksandar Karađorđević II.. 116 There is, therefore, facsimile, there is documentation, a game of cases, luck or accident, and I was able to look at the original document in the Belgrade archives...
ParlaMint-BA_2010-01-21-1.u32059	Time.
ParlaMint-BA_2010-01-21-1.u32060	...and I can tell you that since 1944 he has been illegal, not only from the point of view of the People's Liberation Movement, but also from the point of view of King Aleksandar ii Karađorđević, who took away his legitimacy in 1944. But for a serious debate, if we want to discuss arguments, we need more time, more public debates, and here I am being warned in time, so I suggest we adopt this as a basis, so that you, here at the session, immediately answer this question about Ustasha organizations, the hangar divisions, and that we continue to try to get even more precise formulations.
ParlaMint-BA_2010-01-21-1.u32061	Comrades and fellow MPs, we are on the 11th item of the agenda. We have a chance to end this if we focus on legal projects, not on each other's accusations. I remind you that we have an opportunity, so now we interrupt the session and continue the 3rd, or we work until some reasonable time and we finish this. _________(?) [[no microphone turned on]] I'm not sure. And I ask the messengers – are you in the mood for us to finish this tonight? _________(?) [[no microphone turned on]]
ParlaMint-BA_2010-01-21-1.u32064	So I didn't answer at all on this point, I didn't have any replicas, I didn't have any discussions, I did have a session of the Constitutional Commission, and there was really a quality debate there when it came to the bill. I expect that... it would be good for us to accept this law in our first reading. Many questions have been raised here, and I expect the promoter, perhaps in this amendment phase, to say, when it comes to who the fascist organisations are, how these things are wide-ranging here, that these questions could be answered here, in Article 1 of this law, among other things, are being said – who establish and establish a fascist organisation, association, political party and group, etc., which are historically confirmed as fascist... So, by the decisions of the international court or of the domestic court, many judgments have been made in history so far when these fascist and non-fascist organisations are concerned and have been established as such, and for these reasons this question of Draža and singing would also be answered, and so we would not be confused about all this. So, we would do well to accept this law in our first reading and we would answer many of these questions if we were to relate to these decisions by international courts, in the history of international and domestic courts on these organisations.
ParlaMint-BA_2010-01-21-1.u32065	Thank you. Dear Ambassador Velimir Jukić. Is it a replica or is it...?
ParlaMint-BA_2010-01-21-1.u32066	No microphone turned on
ParlaMint-BA_2010-01-21-1.u32067	Wrong. Dear Ambassador Martin Raguž, discussion. Here you go.
ParlaMint-BA_2010-01-21-1.u32068	Thank you. Well, here, when certain terms are used, I didn't want to replicate to Mr. Kalabić, an esteemed representative, I don't know if there's any official name that would have the name chess. So what is required of experts, which you rightly warn the legislator, is that experts need to specify these things so that there is no manipulation and abuse for daily and other purposes, then we should use these precise markings that refer to national symbols that are important for all peoples, for every people, etc. So, here, it's like a clagort, it's not an objection to anything, I mean, nothing was negative in terms of intent, but I'm saying that it can be interpreted differently, and in a way devast something that needs to be represented by the national symbols of each of the people who can be abused in certain weather and historical situations, etc. I was not against this on the Constitutional Commission, because I expected that we would get the strength to discuss real and good intentions, to prevent and legally sanction all forms of totalitarian ideology and behaviour that can and act negatively in BiH's premises. But still 118 I see a really reduced curricula approach, I must say, and that's my objection to the promoters, because they insist on the fact that only this reduced approach should be legally satisfied in... If you're looking, here's an analysis of the legislation and the situation from the Council of Europe to all these countries, you can see that it's mostly accessing much wider, more sensitive and more responsible. That they want to sanction all groups of discrimination based on race, origin, faith, beliefs of national, ethical, all forms of totalitarian ideology and I think it would be much more appropriate for this country to have one such legal solution. And I will remind some of you who are members of the Parliamentary Assembly of the Council of Europe, that two years ago the Parliamentary Assembly of the Council of Europe adopted a resolution on the condemnation of all crimes of communist ideology and... It's a European standard, too. And let's go, if we're going to make these European standards, let's go with all these ideologies. I supported this because I know what fascism represented, what crimes and... were committed here, and any resuscitation or attempt to resuscitate should really be sanctioned and I don't think there's any doubt about it. But let's open a really serious debate that will result in tomorrow's non-confrontations of ideology after 50 years, but really certain legal solutions that will be able to meet and withstand these European standards. We'd best have a public discussion about this, including the experts, and get everything involved, so we can do something.
ParlaMint-BA_2010-01-21-1.u32069	Thank you. Dear Ambassador, Selim Bešlagić. Here you go.
ParlaMint-BA_2010-01-21-1.u32070	Dear Chairman, colleagues and colleagues. Let me just say, here's the answer to Mr. Raguž. We really suggested for the first time and something that was, here and in the discussion it was said, at the 28th session, where it was said not to quote organizations. That's when we came to the conclusion that the Council of Ministers... which means we accepted your suggestion not to be, let's say, the ones who are going to propose the law, but that the Council of Ministers proposed that part, which we accepted the suggestions, (and the feeling of this) about which you, Mr Raguž, were saying, not to be the law of the SDP, but to be the law of the BiH Parliament. The problem is that our conclusions, this House, unfortunately are not binding on the Council of Ministers and we always go back to who it is... We believe that this is a very important issue and we repeat it in this regard, by making this proposal. And just to tell you, the proposal that's been made here is a typical proposal, I'd say, the German law on the prevention of these things, where there's neither Hitler nor him standing there, but he's saying exactly who's committing these violations, and it says here, he's going to be punished. Now, you see what you're asking us to do and what all of us are asking for, that we're accurate now, as if we're... so we have to have legal services, we have to have a secretariat, we have to have a Council of Ministers to provide, if necessary, a meeting of all experts to define these things that are identical, I'd say, by identification. So, fascism, so don't get into these things, that I'm supposed to be a lawyer with a lawyer, no talking, that I'm supposed to be a historian with a historian. We had a good will, which we then accepted by your suggestion, not to enter into giving names and last names, we excluded it, we now said this Law, meaning, about the action and establishment of 119 fascist and neo-fascist organizations, the use of fascist and neo-fascist symbols... And we think it's enough that now everything that's supposed to be in this first debate that's going to be, so it could be a round table, it could be debates, that exactly the experts say what should be defined, so we don't get into this dilemma whether this is it or that. I don't know, chess is a normal sign, I say, Croatian people. It's another thing that someone, a two-headed eagle, so I, I don't dream that it's some kind of... Well, the two-headed eagle is not only with the Srbin, he's in Russia, he's, I don't know, still with other peoples, German. So, I don't think that's the sign that should be here... Don't just ask to sing, when, Mr. Kalabić, you greet... to just say attach notes and attach the druid or mole to it. Well, that doesn't make sense. So leave it to the judiciary, leave it to those experts, let them say in the second debate and define it. Therefore, this is an idea adopted by this parliament, which has given its task to the Council of Ministers. Since this has not been done by the Council of Ministers, respecting your suggestions, it means that there is no, I would say, locations that these organisations are, we have made this second proposal, that is, Mr Denis Bećirović has made a second proposal. Here, I have a proposal, if you will, as defined in the German Constitution, it's identical, so there's no calling. But what is fascism, neofascism, I don't think we should put that definition into our mouths. It is a legal matter proven and shown, and therefore it is the only thing to stick to. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-BA_2010-01-21-1.u32071	Chairman Živković, replica.
ParlaMint-BA_2010-01-21-1.u32072	Thank you. Namely, after I invite all the MPs, let me say they contribute, and then a debate is opened that cannot be without participation, and then let me make my own little contribution to this whole thing. It pains me that some parties give themselves exclusiveity that they can propose various anti-fascist solutions in this country. And if we're going to mention history, a nation in this country had a king, so he threw him out and drove him away and brought Communism where antifascism was like the main fluid, and if we can measure by the cantar which people had the most influence and influence in that antifascism, then it can also be measured. And then someone actually gives that people a second group and they say they're in a group of fascists or peoples... when we know well that the former Yugoslavia was an anti-fascist country, unlike Italy, unlike Germany, etc., etc. And don't put yourself for the right and the exclusive that it's just you, and the SDP in particular, who will propose anti-fascist laws, not to say dates, etc., etc. Especially when we know which of the people in the SDP is being led as the most numerous multiethnic party. And to mention also the resolution that MP Momčilo Novaković proposed on the condemnation of the communist regimes and that in 14.7.2008 the resolution was rejected for 8, v. 8, abstention 17. In this same parliament, which is now saying that totalitarian regimes and that party that is loud and clear here, its representative, should be condemned, said that the followers of the Communist Party and all 120 ideas here. So let's avoid politics. SNSD, if this is how it continues to work in this parliament and endlessly propose laws that have fallen four or five times, the next two months will submit all the laws that SNSD has filed here, they have fallen. We will have the closure of this parliament with twenty, thirty legal projects. Gentlemen, if you want this Parliament to work that way, you'll get an adequate answer, but I don't think that's the way this Parliament should work. Mr. Beriz Belkić, replica. Here you go.
ParlaMint-BA_2010-01-21-1.u32073	Mrs. Marković, I'm sorry, it's not malicious, I'm really trying, I've been thinking about what a man should do in these situations. I replicate to all those who intend to do this in this way to replicate. So we simply have to face the fact that there are some questions that we, and in the foreseeable future, cannot reach consensus. We just think differently about some things. And that's a fact, and let's get to it. There's no way I can convince someone to think like me or vice versa. So we're buried on a few things, I can count them right now. We're buried in trenches and no one's gonna give in. And let us not get carried away and sow illusions to one another whether we will persuade one another. We've wasted our time and made people crazy in this country.
ParlaMint-BA_2010-01-21-1.u32074	Thank you. Dear Ambassador Milica Marković, replica. Here you go.
ParlaMint-BA_2010-01-21-1.u32075	Thank you, Mr. Chairman. Well, I'll start my replica with this, continue, actually support what Mr. Beriz Belkić said. It is true that we have each of our views, but no party, so no MPs' club in this House BiH has the right, because someone thinks so or cannot support the position of another club, that it is now boasting that only this club is an MP, I don't know, for condemning all fascist organisations or what is required of these amendments. I want to say one thing, that some MPs from the SDP Club are masters to reverse the thesis, especially you, Mr Bećirović. Give us a lesson here who Draža Mihajlović was, and what he was doing, and when he was resolved, and what happened, as if we hadn't studied history and we didn't have history lessons through our schooling. And what you are asked to do, what Mr. Kalabić asked of you, that as the club that you have taken that move to seek amendments to the law, you are required to provide an explanation, i.e., to give precise definitions of what you are looking for with these amendments. Niko of you are asking you to tell me if this Chetnic Equality Movement is a fascist organization. But you are obliged to define in your amendments to the law, to state what will be the subject of punishment under that law.
ParlaMint-BA_2010-01-21-1.u32076	No microphone 121 turned on
ParlaMint-BA_2010-01-21-1.u32077	So you've made a move and taken that courage and freedom to engage, here, we've heard the conclusion that the Ministry of Justice has also said that it's a delicate question and that you need people who are invited by profession and science to say it, but you've taken your exclusive right to do it. And, here, now you've come to a dead end that you can't, you don't know how to get out of it, you don't know how to answer and then you're banalizing things here, that you need someone to deliver notes along with the lyrics of the song, which is really inappropriate and that's already vulgarizing things. Let me just say one more thing about what made me the most known of this replica, gentlemen, principle is what you're supposed to stick to here. Now it insists, let the law pass in the first reading, to open a public debate, to talk about, to open an amendment phase, and when we talk about a much more important thing for this country like the census, then we don't have to deal with it, and we don't need a public debate, or an amendment phase, anything, we say we don't support it right away, and it won't go away. Now it is much more important in this country whether someone will be punished for fascist statements than whether economic and social plans will be made based on the number of residents living in this country. I mean, you're really getting into it, and here you are, alone in the situation that you can't even get out of there by yourself because you're getting involved and it's better if you don't get involved in such things, that you don't take time away from parliament.
ParlaMint-BA_2010-01-21-1.u32078	Dear Ambassador Mirjana Malić, replica. Here you go.
ParlaMint-BA_2010-01-21-1.u32079	The Honorable Chairman, members of the College, colleagues and colleagues. I owe you an apology. I am not really a person who, by his participation in this House's work, makes it difficult, interferes with the adoption of laws, etc. But unfortunately, given the circumstances, as president of the club, I can't help but react. Mr. Živković, first of all, we haven't given ourselves the right, and I hope we haven't, to propose anti-fascist laws, I hope that the consensus in our country is anti-fascism is something that is our positive heritage and that fascism and neofascism are something that no one in this country is behind. We are in the final line two years ago, trying in one legitimate activity of the MPs of an opposition party, which, at least, cannot be taken away as a right, initiated some laws. Here we have listened to unblessed initiatives that even constitutional law commissions assess outside Parliament's power, so we have listened to them for three hours. It's all a legitimate right of MPs. But I have two things to react to. We do not give ourselves the right exclusivity, nor do we boast, nor have we accused any people of belonging to this other group. I'm sorry, in the bill of law, or in an explanation, the SDP has not come out of its legal authority at any moment. Nor did we say in our conversation about previous points that we would or would not support the first reading. I'm sorry, but here you have to make sure that when it's replicated, it's replicated about the things that are said here. As for the note on the song text, you asked to specify notes, i.e. someone from SNSD, and we did not. It is in this House whether or not it will support 122 proposals from an opposition group, but I ask you to try to assess once objectively what is good intentions and what is politics. And it is inadmissible that every SDP initiative is characterized exclusively as politics, and we spent three hours this morning on politics between allegedly ruling positions.
ParlaMint-BA_2010-01-21-1.u32080	Thank you. Dear Ambassador Selim Bešlagić, replica. Here you go.
ParlaMint-BA_2010-01-21-1.u32081	Well, I almost have nothing to replicate, but I still have to tell you something, Mr. Živković. With no word from the SDP, he did not say what the people were, and Mrs. Malić said so. The other thing, I can't figure it out, but you said something today that I can't figure out. You are in this House position and you want to block this parliament from working. Well, that's nebulosis, I can't figure it out. You, as a position, to us opposition, which we are no one and nothing, threaten us that you will block this parliament by inserting hundreds of laws etc. I must admit that I am surprised because I know you well as the right(?) A man you understand. Therefore, you are the position, you must break it to make this parliament passable. And a third thing. All of you from SNSD. You said this wasn't an exclusive SDP. Here, I promise you, we will cross the SDP, put the SNSD – we will support your proposal. Here, on this, there. So, I don't want that exclusive, I just thought that we were looking for it in our time, that we accepted your suggestions that the Council of Ministers would do it, and now you're accusing us again of what we think should be triggered. Here, we wipe ours, put yours on, and we will uphold this law.
ParlaMint-BA_2010-01-21-1.u32082	Dear Ambassador Mirko Okolić, replica. Here you go.
ParlaMint-BA_2010-01-21-1.u32083	Replica is a respected colleague, Professor Malić, in the sense that she agrees with part of her discussion. And she said that the consensus on anti-fascism and the conviction... exists in BiH, you hope, and I say that I hope and even think so. However, I have something else, what Mr. Beriz Belkić was talking about, which is that we cannot determine what the subject is... We have different visions about it. It takes some definition to make what fascism is, which are fascist traits, what is considered fascism by one nation, what is considered by another. Look, in one nation, there are criminals, for another, they're heroes and vice versa, so I'm not counting any further, so that's our problem now. As far as fascism is concerned, I don't see anyone standing here to protect fascism, but it's just a problem to agree on how to get to that formula to say what it is, what it is, what it is, what form it is, etc. And I think at this point, 123 Mr. Beriz Belkić is right, it will be difficult to pass this law because we have different views and different views. Thank you.
ParlaMint-BA_2010-01-21-1.u32084	Thank you. Nice to Kalabić you. Here you go.
ParlaMint-BA_2010-01-21-1.u32085	I beg you, here's my business intervention on my right to insist all the time (it's become something else). Those who may not have read, we are at the point of the agenda – amendments to the Criminal Law. Maybe someone thinks we're on to something. We're at the point of the agenda that has every assumption that he gets most of it, to amend the Criminal Law. How is it possible that previous amendments to the Criminal Code, where 50 people worked, worked for a year, now we have a proposal from one MP or one club to do it in an hour. That's what I was talking about. And it's unserious to rush me in the sense that we don't pay attention to it. There's a chance for most of us to change the Penal Code tonight. That's why I said, using my parliamentary right to get answers to some questions, it turned into something else instead of giving me answers on such an important issue. Then those who brought us into this, the promoters, invent other things. I didn't propose this law because I don't think I'm an aunt to everyone, I'm not capable. And there's the difference. I'm not an aunt to everything, and if I knew everything, I would suggest everything. But I warned those who brought me here to consider this law that I had the human and parliamentary right to suggest that this was not complete. I stand behind everything and one word I said in the discussion before we discussed it. So I asked for the law, but complete. You've decided to amend the Criminal Code. I've said what's missing here. And this is what Mr. Belkić said, if you had thought about it before, you would have figured out that we have things that we can't solve in half an hour, they're so big, that I'll end up with your desire for the day-to-day political needs of big topics to die in the mud and then maybe even more serious people than us won't get results because we died this in the mud. I was looking for answers to the question the promoter gave. If I had been capable and powerful, I would have come up with that proposal. The BiH Council of Ministers said its dilemmas, also at this time, some MPs. And then he insists, he pushes his finger here, and when we're looking for answers... there's one other thing, and I'm gonna end up with it, we all know enough, we all know enough whose intentions are, we don't need to convince ourselves, and what's behind it.
ParlaMint-BA_2010-01-21-1.u32086	Dear Ambassador Branko Dokić, discussion. Here you go.
ParlaMint-BA_2010-01-21-1.u32087	Mr. Chairman. I thought I wasn't answering, but I answered for about the same reasons as Mr. Belkić, to try, here at the end of this discussion, to call for access to this topic very, very 124 cold heads. I don't want to discuss it because I'm afraid that the exact facts and data on this period that's being talked about would provoke the discussions of some others and I don't want to share us now, after all this time and after our accident we've had. And yet I'm saying, I could give you a series of accurate, exact data, official data, even in percentages. I'm very sorry that after this debate, the impression that members of a nation, I have to say this, however, that they have endured in this country the greatest victims of the fascist regime, will get the impression that the representatives of that people support it. Therefore, I think that we should end this by calling on the Council of Ministers of BiH on their commitment two years ago, and if they did say, and it is true that what they said, is that this is a very sensitive issue that experts and historians working on this issue should give the proposal and the Council of Ministers of BiH, and then to this Parliament, a proposal for a document that will be adopted, I would now not know what it would be called, therefore, to create a re-enquirement to the Council of Ministers of BiH, in due time, no later than a month or two, to create this expert team that will work on this issue. We will not be late anywhere in the EU or anywhere else unless we end up in this mandate, but let us try to create something a little more positive than it is. Obviously, this issue, too, is unfortunately a very sensitive and difficult issue, well politicized and sought to be used for some political purposes. If that's the case, then I'll really have to reach out to the historical facts.
ParlaMint-BA_2010-01-21-1.u32088	Dear Ambassador Denis Bećirović, replica. Here you go.
ParlaMint-BA_2010-01-21-1.u32089	Well, I'm not going to let myself get off the subject of the agenda, so I'm going to keep speaking clearly and with arguments. I must say that I had a great satisfaction with the decisions of the Constitutional Commission and the fact that no man in the Constitutional Commission was against this bill, including a colleague of Kalabić who remained restrained, probably thinking, and was not against whether or not this law was fixed. I expect such an expression to come to light when voting. I must say, this law needs this generation today, but it is much more necessary for all the children of this country. For every child today who doesn't want to be threatened by any fascist organization that threatens anyone, any people and any citizen. It is dangerous when you present certain thesis, such as your colleague Okolić, at a certain point, he says: every nation has its own, like, different heroes. Not every nation has its own hero. Heroes are heroes, and anti-fascists are anti-fascists. For me, for Mirjana and others at the SDP Club, Dr. Mladen Stojanović is a folk hero, Savo Kovačević is a folk hero, and every Bošnjak, who has possibly committed a war crime, and in World War II and in this, is a war criminal and needs to be called by name and last name. I am sorry, colleague Kalabić, that you have not answered the precise question – whether the Ustasha Organisation is a fascist organisation for you. I wonder why you didn't answer that question. I can't get you a bigger argument than your speech, here, I brought here a stenogram of what you were saying. You asked us to make a proposal like this. Your Council of 125 ministers didn't do it. You have a new proposal. Here, now in that proposal you find a grudge, and in the first debate two years ago, you spoke completely the opposite. This is nothing new to me. I wish this was a first reading, but we're going to send, I think, an ugly message. An ugly message that in this term, as there are seven wonders in the world, we have done seven parliamentary miracles here in anti-fascist Europe. First, when we rejected the initiative to pass this law, the second when it was ruined and the unrealised conclusion of the BiH Parliament that the BiH Council of Ministers made such a law, the third when in this House the law on the ban on the denial and denial of genocide was rejected, the fourth when the Srebrenica resolution was rejected in this House, the fifth when we refused even to mark the Holocaust Day in Europe, the sixth when the amendments to the Criminal Law that we should have banned from denying genocide, and this if it fell, it would be the seventh parliamentary miracle in this country that lies in anti-fascist Europe. Thank you, Mr. Chairman.
ParlaMint-BA_2010-01-21-1.u32090	Thank you. Mirko Okolić, replica. Here you go.
ParlaMint-BA_2010-01-21-1.u32091	Replication is to Mr. Denis Bećirović, who set an example that I said something I didn't say. That's why I'm gonna tell him what I said. So, I didn't say that every nation has its heroes, which is maybe true and probably has them, but I didn't say it, and I'm not going to say it now, but I said something else, I said to some people that one person is a hero, and for another people the same person is a criminal. That's what I'm behind. Now, that's what's the problem with us. For someone, a hero is someone, for another people maybe a fascist or a criminal, and so we have a newer history. We have people who will tell Draža or Pavelić that he is a hero, and someone will also say that they are criminals. We've got people to tell Josip Broz Tito he's a hero, someone's gonna say he's a criminal because his wife asked him who you were overnight, he didn't know who he was going for, the wrong guy, and the trap, on the naked island for 15 years, he's been working for example. That's what I said it was hard to reach a compromise with us now, about which I find it difficult to agree and think, and I argue and now that Mr. Belkić is right when he said it was an obstacle to the adoption of this law, and I claim it. Until we do, we won't be able to pass this law. Thank you.
ParlaMint-BA_2010-01-21-1.u32092	Replica, Honorary Chairman, Dr. Milorad Živković.
ParlaMint-BA_2010-01-21-1.u32093	I wish... for all I have to replicate in the end, but I let everything say what they have, and I tell Mr. Bešlagić that it wasn't a replica of you, not a warning to you, but a warning to those who constantly put legal projects that fall here and challenge at least three or four hours of discussion, and every year they are here again. I'm just saying, there are 126 such legal projects in the SNSD reserve, and if that's the way this Parliament works, we are also ready for the BiH Parliament to work. If you put seven miracles in this House, Mr Bećirović, it is your turn to put this 8th miracle where the resolution on the condemnation of the communist regimes adopted by the Council of Europe has fallen, and you, as a great European party, should support the resolutions that are being adopted (here in Parliament in Europe), should also be adopted here. At the same time, your wish, where you read how they voted on the Constitutional Legal Commission all, was not to convince, by further answers to the questions raised here by those people who were restrained, but by your wish to further deepen this problem and to show up, and that is the exclusiveity of the SDP, the anti-fascist struggle, which is absolutely incorrect. And you'll never get an exclusive in this country from us from SNSD, like this project, because you haven't convinced us that it's good and that it has an adequate background, with your answers you won't get any support from us. I thank everyone for the debate. I suggest we move on. [[Common discussion]] Don't you agree that we should move on? [[Common discussion]]
ParlaMint-BA_2010-01-21-1.u32098	I'm thanking you. So here are just one sentence, representatives of the OHR, who every second follow the work of the BiH Parliament and follow and when it comes to this law, and know well what we have proposed. Also, they know which decision the High Representative made. If they felt that this intervention of ours, in both of these laws, we had interfered with the decision of the High Representative, indeed, let them say, let them write a letter that it was a interference in the decision of the High Representative. But indeed, they did not respond to this. So this high representative intervention and our intervention in the law are separate things and we believe that we have not touched the decision of the High Representative at all, but rather two separate things. I consider what I said significant.
ParlaMint-BA_2010-01-21-1.u32099	Thank you. Dear Ambassador Slavko Jovičić, replica. Here you go.
ParlaMint-BA_2010-01-21-1.u32100	Dear fellow Remzija Kadrić, whom I highly respect, as all said one sentence,... ten, but he has a right for another hundred to three minutes, and I will watch for three minutes, really watch the display. So no decision by the High Representative or the OHR, as a State MP, obliges me. He absolutely shouldn't have mentioned it here. But since this is the second project from the Party for BiH, respected professors and colleagues from the club, he came later. That's the guy who forced it. There's nothing we can do about it. When I say that, don't let Bog think... meaning, but his Excellency, the high representative imposed it. He set it up, but it'll never come to life. Now in this new change to extend retroactively, again not valid, all the foreigners escaped, there are two more there, I heard, and they're packing bags, even without our big insistence that they go, they're going alone, they're going alone. So to get back to this, we can't catch them anywhere anymore, there aren't any, thank Bog, I want to raise a question to each other – why are we constantly humiliating our people in this country? We have extraordinary lawyers, every day, I've heard countless times today, and I don't know, I'll see a stenogram of how many times I've reported, and an expert group needs to do something, an expert group will help us. I'm against the words of an expert, I said it bothers me, but when we have so many experts, why should I trust a stranger who's not affirmed in his home, and I wouldn't trust my people who have finished colleges. I'm underestimating the first college, underestimating the distinguished professors, underestimating the students who graduated with a high average, underestimating the judge, underestimating our prosecutors. Well, that's me, and I've never worked before, and now I don't want to. So we have experts better than they are. That's for sure. Why don't we show them trust? I've been following a lot of trials in court, and I know a few, and I don't want to mention the names of the judges that the whole of BiH is proud of. Heads came to criminals, that Gashi group, commendations from all sides. She came, she did everything by law, people are proud. There were few objections to their work, so our domestic people, and too many objections to strangers, and now I have to return them, and they ran away. How am I gonna get them back when they won't come back alone? So, what I'm saying is, this can't get 128 support and don't let us go again – the High Representative, OHR, we, these, they, in the end, no one at all.
ParlaMint-BA_2010-01-21-1.u32101	Dear Ambassador Branko Dokić, discussion. Here you go.
ParlaMint-BA_2010-01-21-1.u32102	My discussion comes down to one question to the proposer of these two laws. So it relates to both point 12 and point 13. Actually, before I ask the question, I'll just make a quick comment. You all know that since '97, when the Bonn Declaration was passed, I've never supported any law imposed by a high representative. Not because I was against the High Representative, on the contrary, I was very good with some, but because I always felt that the way it was confirmed here in Parliament was one harsh insult and a violation of the dignity of each of the MPs. I see now that the Party for BiH, too, because I don't believe this is just a proposal from the club president, came in a similar attitude. So I ask the question – if indeed the Party for BiH has come to this stage to no longer recognise the laws imposed by the High Representative, then I, and the PDP, will seriously engage in the debate over this law, member by member. If they have not come to this, then my assessment is that this is the ultimate politics that should not allow itself to be allowed by a party that is in the parliamentary majority, unlike an opposition that can afford such luxury. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-BA_2010-01-21-1.u32103	Thank you. The second vice-president, Mr. Beriz Belkić, is an incorrect allegation. Here you go.
ParlaMint-BA_2010-01-21-1.u32104	We have indeed shown a good will to end this session today, reminding you of what we have been saying as an argument and why we have asked for an emergency procedure, which, of course, is not supported, so here we have come to a shortened procedure. I say, Mr. Dokić, of course, it's not a moment or a time (each other), and these are questions where we will never agree. You don't respect and acknowledge this court, as an institution, or that prosecution, as an institution unlike me. And that's where we can't agree. So, we think that not only the judges and prosecutors in the War Crimes Department, but also in the Organized Crimes Department, so our proposal, to cut short, our proposal absolutely does not specify the decisions of the High Representative. Our proposal is autonomous and goes on to amend and supplement the Law on the Court and this second to the Law on the Prosecution, and nothing else. But we don't seem to agree here. We think they should still be in the organized crime department and judges and prosecutors, you don't think. It's not a problem.
ParlaMint-BA_2010-01-21-1.u32105	Thank you. 129, let's take it in a row. Replica reply, Ambassador Branko Dokić. Here you go.
ParlaMint-BA_2010-01-21-1.u32106	I'd just say that Mr. Belkić has given himself the right to interpret what he doesn't admit or admit. You've absolutely arbitraryly interpreted it, and I don't think that's good. I say once again that we do not need politics in this House, especially when they come from a party that makes up the parliamentary majority.
ParlaMint-BA_2010-01-21-1.u32107	Thank you. Dear Ambassador Denis Bećirović, replica. Here you go.
ParlaMint-BA_2010-01-21-1.u32108	I wouldn't exactly call this a replica to Mr. Belkić, one more explanation. At the previous agenda point, Mr Belkić said that we have different views on certain issues and that there is no need to waste time, to put it this way, on certain issues because it is impossible to finish them. I'm just saying, Mr. Belkić, here, it hasn't been five minutes you've come in the same position.
ParlaMint-BA_2010-01-21-1.u32109	Thank you. Dear Ambassador Azra Hadžiahmetović, replica. Here you go.
ParlaMint-BA_2010-01-21-1.u32110	Thank you, Chairman. Although part of the parliamentary question was addressed to the legislator of this law, here it is, at the very beginning, that Mr. Dokić removes all dilemmas. Azra Hadžiahmetović, chairman of the Party for BiH MPs' club, is proposing. The whole BiH Party is behind this proposal, so you don't have any dilemmas that you think this is some sort of individual wandering, because we're really a party. Secondly, you say you give yourself the right to judge that Mr Belkić has given himself the right to interpret something. I really don't know, Mr. Dokić, what do you think of the party's policy as a parliamentary majority if it proposes to keep a part of international judges and prosecutors in two key judicial institutions in the organized crime department. What is politics or whose conclusion is politics? Is this your... or is the BiH Party's proposal for politics? Secondly, you say parties from the parliamentary majority, so you were in the parliamentary majority until yesterday, and today you are in opposition part of the party's parliamentary majority club. Ask yourself a little bit. Furthermore, sir, the addition to what Mr Belkić gave in an explanation of your disrespect for two institutions – the Court and the Prosecutor's Office, you showed your relationship with respect or disrespect for the decisions of the High 130 representatives and the parliamentary procedure concerning the laws declared by the High Representative. We are fully aware that, if there is any conflict here between the decisions of the High Representative and the party's proposal, and I will only remind you that the party's first proposal has entered the parliamentary procedure, then the High Representative has declared his decision, i.e. the amendments to the law, after which we have corrected our proposal so that there may be no conflict with the declared decision of the High Representative. And you call it politics, you who are referring to the procedure of including, that is, the adoption of laws declared by the High Representative here, and we know that the procedure for this law to become our property, that we can only change it if we adopt it first. And you who refer to the very beginning by saying that none, in principle, are any such law... I don't know what your politics is, Mr. Dokić. I'm just asking you, here, I'm not going to discuss this further by respecting, since we've already explained the proposal, I haven't taken advantage of it, because I really didn't think it necessary for this House to explain these bill proposals, but here, I'm going to use this replica...
ParlaMint-BA_2010-01-21-1.u32111	Time.
ParlaMint-BA_2010-01-21-1.u32112	...only, Mr. Chairman, to mention that it is one area for which it is very clear that whoever is not for this should not use some arguments on another side as an excuse for not accepting the proposal that foreign judges and prosecutors for another time, until domestic institutions are able to do so, they remain in the Department of Organized Crime. Thank you.
ParlaMint-BA_2010-01-21-1.u32113	Thank you. Replica, Honourable Ambassador Momčilo Novaković. Here you go.
ParlaMint-BA_2010-01-21-1.u32114	Thank you very much. Here, I'll open up a new front, and I'll replicate to Mr. Jovičić. I must say, it is a strange way of not respecting the high representative's decision, i.e. to impose the law by the High Representative. While on the one hand we have clear views that this is unacceptable for the SNSD and that the SNSD does not support it, etc., that it is illegal, on the other hand we have a legitimate institution of the RS – the Ministry of the Interior which assists, means, that it assists in the arrest of war crimes indictees on the warrant of the same prosecution. So, a very interesting way of disrespecting the high representative's decision.
ParlaMint-BA_2010-01-21-1.u32115	Dear Ambassador Branko Dokić, replica. Here you go. 131
ParlaMint-BA_2010-01-21-1.u32116	I think the reaction of my colleague Azra is really inappropriate, not to use a harsh word. In no way did I ask the question whether the individual or party is behind these proposals, but I thought in advance, given that this is proposed by the president of the club, that the party is behind it. That's what I said. Secondly, my question was if the Party for BiH had changed its approach that the laws imposed by the High Representative could only be changed when this parliament adopted them in its procedure, that I would take seriously, if not so, I called it politics here. And not once did you convince me, not once from the BiH Party that if we want to change the law, we must adopt it here first. Now that was my remark that my colleague understood very well, but I think that, and not for the first time, she reacted very inappropriately, not to use, once again, a harsher word.
ParlaMint-BA_2010-01-21-1.u32117	Dear Ambassador Slavko Jovičić, replica.
ParlaMint-BA_2010-01-21-1.u32118	Dear colleague Novaković, that's exactly how you put the dice in that mosaic. But when it comes to me personally, I'm going to say this honestly, as I always do honestly, how anyone likes it is a matter of impression. Believe it or not, I'm not gonna say I wasn't informed, I am, but I'm a little curious about how institutions in Banja Luka work. I am an MP of this country here in Sarajevo. First of all, the closest I get to Pala, I have health problems, so if someone puts me there with a decree, I could hardly travel now, far away from me, the closest I'm there, 16 km away. This year, there's no snow, I could go to pictures or sledding. I don't have a state car, because I'm not a functioner of that rank, I really respect the officials. So, Mr. Novaković, you're right here, but you don't need to mix the RS MUP which he performs. That's affirmative, because it's one of the best police structures in BiH. They have indicators and we had just the information that the realization, by all accounts, of crimes, of these, of those, that the results of the RS MUP are much better than the results of all other security agencies. Well, when you gave me a chance, here's to affirm the work of the Ministry of the Interior of the Republic of Slovenia, to direct my congratulations to the Sarajevo authorities in Banja Luka to continue their work, because they are working effectively, but to directly bind them with the prosecution and the high representative, so if they were to decide everything, I suppose they would immediately abolish that institution. And the other thing, when it comes to this whole project about this recognition and non-recognition of the high representative's decisions, you know there's only a referendum being advocated, but others have taken advantage of the opportunity, wants Banja Luka, wants the strongest party, wants the most popular prime minister, I don't know what they call it, to cut off RS. And the man goes public and says, "We don't have those aspirations." All we have to do is say that this is our country, that we're doing it, not that we're being arranged by someone else. And it is a completely, completely legitimate right for us to decide our fate and say - we cannot accept something that is not in line with the Constitution of this country and with all the other principles. 132 [[Common discussion]] Well, well, here, when Momo left, then let me cut short.
ParlaMint-BA_2010-01-21-1.u32120	You're right. Dear Ambassador Azra Hadžiahmetović, replica.
ParlaMint-BA_2010-01-21-1.u32121	I'm sorry I didn't give a complete answer to the MP's question earlier, but, here, let me just mention it. The Party for BiH has not changed its position and we have always, and especially in the proposals of the law, followed procedures, rules, if necessary and consulted other institutions, etc. So this proposal was no accident at all. The way Mr Dokić presented our so-called Politics, whether the parties of the parliamentary majority have opened up a number of doubts and if they have received an answer that his ears could not hear, then I am sorry. But, Mr. Dokić, here's to tell you, I've referred precisely to the copies of your formulation, from your discussion, and I've just replicated it and nothing else. Thank you.
ParlaMint-BA_2010-01-21-1.u32122	The next is the Honorable Chairman, Dr. Milorad Živković.
ParlaMint-BA_2010-01-21-1.u32123	Thank you. Two things are important for the discussion, which is one of the things that we talked about when we discussed the request whether it was right to propose a legal project that tangs members, according to the standard we used in this Parliament, and that before that, which was imposed by the High Representative, we did not adopt in the BiH Parliament. That's one thing. And I, I must warn or introduce you, met the Office of the Special Representative that such a legal project here in the BiH Parliament has been found in the procedure. And I didn't get any answers about what I could interpret. I will interpret it in a way that suits me to interpret it, which is that those legal projects that have been imposed so far, which are not confirmed here in the BiH Parliament, are likely to be amended and complemented by these legal acts here next week. So we'll also see if the representatives sitting in the office will react through then. That's one dimension of this. And, of course, I have my own vision of what Professor Dokić was talking about, which is that legal experts have said that illegal decisions and (that this Parliament confirms) here are still illegal 133 decisions and no legal fact can be implemented on illegal decisions. So I stand behind what we were doing here when we gave the OHR our hand and asked to work with him in the next period. The second thing is the legislative project that is now on the agenda here and we are discussing, and most of this debate was held when this legislative project came from the Council of Ministers and you clearly know the position and the SNSD, most likely and all, most of the MPs from the RS, and we still don't need to elaborate because we're just going to waste both our time and your time about it, so things are clear here. We wanted to just push out the cleanup and what I was talking about at the beginning in the first principle, now I understand that principle, so I think we can move on as a party and as MPs in the next period according to how the OHR Office behaves and how other parties behave here in the BiH Parliament. Dear Ambassador Branko Dokić, does he?
ParlaMint-BA_2010-01-21-1.u32124	I give up.
ParlaMint-BA_2010-01-21-1.u32125	Thank you. Moving to point 13, Ad. 13. Proposal for a Law amending and supplementing the Law on the Prosecutor's Office of BiH – Proposer: MP Azra Hadžiahmetović (first reading) In the follow-up to the 69th session, held on 12.1., the House adopted the proposal that the Law be considered by a shortened procedure. The respective Constitutional Legal Commission delivered its opinion on constitutional basis and principles (19.01.) ...and delivered Opinion 13.12. I'm opening a debate on the bill in the first reading. Now you can use these replicas, who thought, and the rest. No one will. Okay. I'm closing the debate. Moving to point 14, Ad. 14. Proposal for a Law on the Constitutional Court of BiH, with Opinion of the Constitutional Commission - Proposer: MP Momčilo Novaković 134
ParlaMint-BA_2010-01-21-1.u32130	Thank you, Chairman. I just want to brief in addition to the Commission's reports to draw attention to the following. First, the information with the signing of the minister, Mr Zirojević, ends with one finding – looking at the overall value of the traffic with the licences issued can be concluded that there has been no significant change in the transport of products compared to the previous year. So that's one finding. We will take this into account, and, of course, we do not adopt, but I want to draw attention to one item and one expressed discrepancy when it comes to exporting and importing dual-use products.) And in the structure of these products, it is also very important that imports of pyrotechnic products participate significantly. In fact, exports of dual-use products amount to 9,650 euros and imports of 10,549,299 euros. When looking at the small structure of imports, the majority of imports of pyrotechnic assets originate from countries that have significant restrictions in the use of pyrotechnic means. Both hence and suggestions to the BiH Council of Ministers, i.e. the Resoring Ministry, to pay attention and to the relevant sublegal acts regulate this matter. Thank you.
ParlaMint-BA_2010-01-21-1.u32131	We don't have any more logs. I'm closing the debate. Moving to point 17, Ad. 17. The Commission's report to the College on an effort to reach agreement on Parliament's proposal for the conclusion of Parliamentarian Vink Zorić from the 68th session of the House, held on 30th. 12. 2009 136 The consent report you received. The college didn't achieve consent. Today we will vote in the second round on the proposal for a conclusion. Since there's no discussion, we're moving to point 18, Ad. 18. Report from the Commission to the College on the proposal for a conclusion of the SDA's Club of Ambassadors from the 69th session of the House, held on 30th 12. 2009
ParlaMint-BA_2010-01-21-1.u32135	Gentlemen chairman, colleagues and colleagues. I'd just ask if there's any need to further explain this here? If not, I'll just make this conclusion in writing. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-BA_2010-01-21-1.u32136	We already have all these conclusions. If there are no more applications for discussion, we move to point 20, 137 Ad. 20. Achieving conclusions on the allocation of financial resources to mitigate the consequences and the elimination of flood damage during January 2010 in BiH territory At first, it was also spoken of, and the conclusions were proposed, and I think you have also received from the honourable Member Momčilo Novaković to amend the conclusion. Did you get that? Thank you. Debate, honourable MP Šemsudin Mehmedović. Here you go.
ParlaMint-BA_2010-01-21-1.u32138	Mr. Chairman, ladies and gentlemen of the council. Very short. Me and Mr. Jovičić are members of the Commission on Foreign Trade and Customs, and last year we discussed the problem of the flood damage caused in several municipalities in BiH and I think it would be quite okay and correct to include both recovery and these damages in the course of last year that occurred in certain municipalities. Therefore, I ask that the proposal for conclusions from 1 to 5 do not contain the damages that occurred in January 2010 but during the last year. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-BA_2010-01-21-1.u32139	Thank you. If there are no more reports, we move to point 21, Ad. 21. Changes in the membership of the House of Representatives and the Joint Commission of both: a) Lejla Klokić is appointed member of the Joint Commission for Human Rights, Rights of the Child, Youth, Immigration, Refugees, Asylum and Ethics and the Foreign Affairs Commission of the House of Representatives, instead of Sadik Ahmetović, who ceased his term of office as BiH Minister of Security and Deputy Chairman of the Council of Ministers of BiH We need to make an appointment to these two commissions. I'm opening a debate. If there are no reports, I'll conclude the hearing. Moving to point 22, Ad. 22. Giving consent to ratification of the agreement d) The Agreement between the Council of Ministers of BiH and the Government of the Federal Republic of Germany on Financial Co-operation in 2008, 138 e) the Revised Additional Agreement on Technical Assistance by the International Atomic Energy Organisation (IAEA) Bosnia and Herzegovina, f) the Sixth Additional Protocol with the Constitution of the World Postal Union.
ParlaMint-BA_2010-01-21-1.u32143	No microphone turned on
ParlaMint-BA_2010-01-21-1.u32144	We can. At the proposal of the HDZ Club in '90, we vote to postpone the vote on this. Please prepare to vote. You can vote. So we vote on the HDZ proposal to postpone the vote on this. Please prepare to vote. You can vote now. For 23, v. 7, abstention 3. I propose that we adopt the conclusion that the College is in charge of the reasons for the postponement of the vote, with the proposer of the institution's conclusion. Do you agree with that conclusion? Please prepare to vote. You can vote now. I think it's the height here and there was a problem with the definition itself. For 29, v. 1, abstention 1. I realize we've adopted this conclusion. Moving to point 18. – Report by the Commission to the College on the proposal for a conclusion of the SDA's Club of Representatives from the 69th session of the House, held on 30th 12. In 2009. We are voting on the Kolegijum's izvještaj on the conclusion of the SDA MPs' Club in the second round. Please prepare to vote. You can vote now. For 23, against 11, there were no abstentions. I find the conclusion hasn't been adopted. 23 against. Moving to point 19. – Making a conclusion on the allocation of one-day income from January representatives of the House of Representatives to help Haitian citizens conclude on the allocation of one-day earnings in relation to...
ParlaMint-BA_2010-01-21-1.u32145	No microphone 144 turned on
ParlaMint-BA_2010-01-21-1.u32146	Well, I don't know if it's a day's pay or a day's pay, how's it going? [[Common discussion]] Who's going to calculate that?
ParlaMint-BA_2010-01-21-1.u32148	Accounting.
ParlaMint-BA_2010-01-21-1.u32149	No microphone turned on
ParlaMint-BA_2010-01-21-1.u32150	No more discussion, we're done discussing it. [[Common discussion]] Please, you have the right to give your opinion at the vote. We're voting on this proposal. Prepare to vote. You can vote now. In front of the SDS Club, there's a re-election request, a mixed club, a pardon. Please prepare to vote. You can vote now. For 34, there were no abstentions. I find that we unanimously adopted this conclusion. Moving to point 20. – Making a conclusion on the allocation of financial resources to mitigate the consequences and removing the damage caused by the floods to the College's proposal. Before that, we are voting for the conclusion of Momčilo Novaković's MP. Is there any need for me to read the conclusion? _________(?) [[no microphone turned on]]
ParlaMint-BA_2010-01-21-1.u32155	No microphone turned on
ParlaMint-BA_2010-01-21-1.u32156	Yeah, yeah, I was wrong about that. Here, I am now saying that this is a joint conclusion, namely the amendment of MPs Slavko Jovičić and Šemsudin Mehmedović. Please prepare to vote. You can vote now. For 31, there wasn't, abstention 1. I konstatovati that we have adopted this amendment. And now we're voting on the conclusion of the 20th Kolegijum proposal with the changes that have been made by the adoption of these two amendments. Please prepare to vote. You can vote now. For 33, there were no abstentions. With some little protest, I realize we've adopted this conclusion. 146 We move to point 21. – Changes in the membership of the House Representative Commission and the Joint Committee both at home. We are voting on a proposal for amendments for distinguished counterpart Lejla Klokić to two commissions. Please prepare to vote. You can vote now. For 29, it wasn't against, abstention 2. I konstatovati we voted on the amendment proposal. Moving to point 22. – Giving consent to ratification: Glasmovo under a) Agreement between the Council of Ministers of BiH and the Government of the Federal Republic of Germany. Please prepare to vote. You can vote now. For 33, there were no abstentions. I find that we have given consent to the ratification of the Agreement under a). We move to giving consent to ratification and voting under b) the revised supplemental agreement. You can vote now. For 34, there were no abstentions. I find that we have agreed to ratify the revised supplemental agreement under b). Please, we have another vote to vote under c) of the Sixth Additional Protocol. Prepare to vote. We vote under c) giving consent to ratification. You can vote now. For 32, there were no abstentions. I find that we've given consent to ratification under c. I note, colleagues and fellow Members, that the 71st session is scheduled for 3.2.2010. I thank you for your cooperation and close the 70th session. Session completed at 8.08 p.m.
