ParlaMint-BA_2010-06-30-0.u35741	Ladies and gentlemen, MPs and guests, please take your seats. Ladies and gentlemen of the House of Representatives, honored guests, I am opening the 80th session of the Parliamentary Assembly of BiH's House of Representatives. Ladies and gentlemen of the MPs, you are aware that a few days ago in a terrorist attack on the Bugojno Police Station, Officer Tarik Ljubuškić was killed and I invite you to pay tribute to the late Officer Tarik Ljubuskovic for a moment of silence. /
ParlaMint-BA_2010-06-30-0.u35743	The esteemed chairman, colleagues and colleagues, respected media representatives and guests. I suggest we take point 16 off the agenda today, given the fact that the College took certain positions a few minutes ago, and even before the beginning of this session, we got the material we asked for, so it just stops the need for this kind of agenda today. And the other thing, I would suggest to the proposing point number 22, this resolution that is related to the Casino region, to withdraw this item of the agenda. I would not like to talk much about it now, but at the request and request of Dr. Vera Bukić Bukić, who called me from Ljubljana and personally, we were asked to remove this from the agenda and try to deliver to Parliament a text of resolution that would nevertheless be more comprehensive and clear, and something similar to that of that person, so that similar activity should take place in the Assembly of the Republic of Croatia, as events took place in BiH and Croatia. That is, therefore, the proposal, here, and at the request of the greatest expert on this issue, Dr. Kržišnik also doctored at the Casino Rebellion. Whether or not the Proposer will agree to this proposal, I don't know, but, look, I'm passing on that proposal. 3
ParlaMint-BA_2010-06-30-0.u35744	Thank you. Are there any more reported? Dear representative Nermina Zaimović Uzunović.
ParlaMint-BA_2010-06-30-0.u35745	Dear Chairman, colleagues and colleagues. I'd like to do it on the basis of Article 65, Section 1. Rules of Procedure of the BiH Parliamentary Assembly's House of Representatives to submit a proposal to supplement the agenda of today's session with a point – Considering the purchase of buildings, surrounding spaces and garages that are rented by the BiH Embassy in Berlin. I suggest that this be the point after those proposed in the agenda. The explanation is this: The BiH Embassy building in Berlin is leased at around 10,000 euros a month. Since the building is about 500 square meters, with a surrounding area of about 2,300 m2 and two garages, the property of a German state, there is a real possibility and there is a need for construction to purchase the building with accompanying facilities and surrounding space at a price of about 570,000 euros. It is easy to calculate to pay off the investment within a short period, especially as there is a real possibility that other parts of the diplomatic mission for which the costs of renting space in Berlin are also paid with a small redistribution. We received information about this from our ambassador, but prompted by the previous question I received the answer, I believe this is a very favourable opportunity for BiH to solve the problem of leases in such an important country for our diplomatic mission, because at triple the prices here we had information that we were buying places in Sarajevo for some state institutions. Thank you.
ParlaMint-BA_2010-06-30-0.u35746	I just have to ask if you have a suggestion, do you have any written material for this agenda point?
ParlaMint-BA_2010-06-30-0.u35747	No, no, I only have this one, and I'm taking the initiative to forward this, to adopt this initiative so that it can go to the Council of Ministers of BiH, or the Ministry of Finance.
ParlaMint-BA_2010-06-30-0.u35748	This Regulation shall enter The Rules of Procedure – at the beginning of the session, the MP and each authorised proposer shall have the right to request the absence of an optional item and to propose a new one with the relevant material in writing. So if you don't have any material in writing, we can't put it on a statement. That's why I'm asking. But you, you can, here, if you want to process it, so, within the point of the Representative's question, the initiatives, you can refer the initiative and be processed, so, in regular procedure, the initiative. You can do it as an initiative, not as a part of the agenda. 4 Dear Representative Azra Hadžiahmetović.
ParlaMint-BA_2010-06-30-0.u35749	Thank you, Chairman. I was just about to suggest that this turn into an initiative and I withdraw the discussion.
ParlaMint-BA_2010-06-30-0.u35750	Thank you. Are there any more reported? Dear Representative Remzija Kadrić.
ParlaMint-BA_2010-06-30-0.u35751	I thank you, Chairman. So, what Denis Bećirović suggested to remove this point 22, I think that this proposer here, perhaps Husein Nanić would explain it better, and I don't think that Proposer Denis Bećirović has given enough reasons, enough reasons why this point should be removed. I think this point should remain and for these reasons this point... important and not sufficiently explained the request for download. Therefore, this point should remain on the agenda as such.
ParlaMint-BA_2010-06-30-0.u35752	Thank you. Here I am, although I was going to comment at the end, i.e. give an answer to the distinguished representative Bećirović, so it is, both of his proposals, that is, mandatory points of the agenda so that we cannot take them off the agenda. And in the discussion and statement, here, we will see how the House of Representatives will plead on specific issues. I don't have any more logs. I'm closing the debate. I agree that the 80th session of the Parliamentary Assembly of BiH's House of Representatives has the following Dn e n i d: 1. Approval of the minutes of the 79th session of the House of Representatives; 2. Representative questions: (a) Comments on answers received, (b) New issues of representation; 3. Usual information from the BiH Ministry of Security on the terrorist act of assaulting the Police Station in Bugojn; 4. Proposal for a Law on Copyright and Related Rights – Proposer: Council of Ministers of BiH, Law No 01,02-02-2-5/10 of 18.1.2010. (second reading) – a delayed statement at the 79th session of the House since 16.6.2010; 5 5. Proposal for a Law on collective exercise of copyright and related rights – Proposer: Council of Ministers of BiH, Law No: 01,02-02-2-4/10 of 18.1.2010 (second reading) – a delayed statement at the 79th session of the House since 16.6.2010; 6. Proposal for a law supplementing the Service Act in the Armed Forces of Bosnia and Herzegovina – Proposer: Representatives of the SDA Club, Act No: 01-02-8-36/10 of 21.5.2010 (second reading); 7. Proposal for a Law on Census, Households and Apartments in Bosnia and Herzegovina 2011 – Proposer: Temporary Commission, Law No: 01-02-9-37/10 of 24.5.2010 (second reading); 8. Proposal for a Voluntary Law – Proposer: Council of Ministers of BiH, Law No: 01,02-02-7-41/10 of 8.6.2010 (first reading); 9. Proposal for a Framework Law on Free Legal Assistance – Proposer: Council of Ministers of BiH, Law No 01,02-02-3-42/10 of 8.6.2010 (first reading); 10. Proposal for a Law amending the Law on Administrative Disputes of Bosnia and Herzegovina – Proposer: Council of Ministers of BiH, Act No: 01,02-02-5-39/10 of 4.6.2010 (first reading); 11. Proposal for a law on the achievement of Bosnia and Herzegovina's co-operation with emigration – Proponents: Lejla Klokić, Sadik Bahtić, Husein Nanić and Remzija Kadrić, Law No: 01-02-3-38/10 of 25.5.2010 (first reading); 12. Declaration by the House on the setting of a new deadline for the submission of the opinion of the Joint Committee on Human Rights, Rights of the Child, Youth, Immigration, Refugees, Asylum and Ethics on the Proposal for a Law on the Prohibition of Wearing of Clothing, which makes it impossible to identify – Proposer: representatives of the SNSD Club, Act No: 01-02-9-26/10 since 9.4.2010; 13. Report by the College Committee on the Effort of Consent on the Proposal for a Law on Amendments and Supplements to the Law on the conduct of a judicial examination in Bosnia and Herzegovina (second reading); 14. Report by the College Committee on the Effort of Consent on the Proposal for a Law on Amendments and Supplements to the Penal Code of Bosnia and Herzegovina – Proposers: Representatives of the SDP Club (second reading); 15. Report by the Commission on the attempt to reach agreement on the Opinion of the Constitutional Legal Commission on the Proposal for a Law amending the Law on State Service in the institutions of Bosnia and Herzegovina (proposer: Representative Lazar Prodanović); 16. The Commission's report to the College on the effort to reach agreement on Opinion No. 2 of Representative Denis Bećirović of the 79th session of the House on the Information on the Security State of Bosnia and Herzegovina, which reads: "The House of Representatives concludes that, in the event of lack of information from the competent ministry, at the 80th session, it will raise a question of the responsibility of the Minister of Security in the Council of Ministers"; 17. Report by the College Committee on the Effort of Understanding on the Proposal for Conclusions 2, 3 and 4 of MP Azra Hadžiahmetović from the 79th session of the House on the discussion of information on the determination of responsibilities within the Office for the Review of Appeals, which reads: 2. "We are asking the Council of Ministers of BiH for information on the liability regarding the non-named members of the SGEI during the period from 25.9.2006 to 26.3.2009, for which Dr Amir Pilav was appointed interim chairman of the SGEI, 6.3. From the Council of Ministers of BiH, we ask for information on the disputed provisions of the Regulation which regulate the Council of Ministers to be able to resolve the President of the Service at the written request of the representatives of the Parliamentary Assembly of BiH, a member of the Council of Ministers or a member of the Service (Article 5, paragraphs 1 and 2. Regulation), 4. The Parliamentary Assembly of BiH expresses its dissatisfaction with the non-professional and extremely irresponsible and tending relationship with the Chairman of the Service in the process of adopting and implementing the Regulation on the Internal Organisation of the Service’; 18. Annual report by the High Judicial and Prosecutorial Council of Bosnia and Herzegovina for 2009, material number: 01,02-03-50-3-646/10 since 7.5.2010; 19. Report on the work of the Bosnia and Herzegovina concessions Committee for 2009, material number: 01,02-50-3-758/10 of 9.6.2010; 20. Proposal for the appointment of Ante Matić as member of the Bosnia and Herzegovina concessions commission from the Federation of Bosnia and Herzegovina, material number: 01,02-50-3-753/10 of 8.6.2010; 21. Appointment of representatives of the academic community and the non-governmental sector to the Committee for the Election and Monitoring of the Agency for the Prevention of Corruption and Co-ordination of the fight against corruption, proposal for a list of candidates of the Interim Joint Committee of both homes, material number:01,02-50-1-444/10, since 29.6.2010; 22. Proposal for a resolution condemning the mass violation of the human rights of the civilian population in the Cazin region of 1950 and the crimes committed by the competent authorities of Yugoslavia/FNRJ, applicant: representative Husein Nanić; 23. A statement on MPs' initiative Slavko Jovičić to discuss at the meeting of the House of Agenda "Information on the resources to be allocated from the BiH Institution's Budget in the cases of persons indicted before the BiH Court of Justice, and later by powerful verdicts were released"; 24. A statement on MP Mirko Okolić's initiative to discuss the meeting of the House of Agenda item "Information on concluded contracts for work or work in all ministries, directorates, agencies and other administrative organisations of Bosnia and Herzegovina from 1.1.2007 to 12.5.2010"; 25. Granting approval for ratification: (a) Loan agreement between Bosnia and Herzegovina and the International Bank for Reconstruction and Development – A Waste Water Project in Sarajevo, (b) A loan agreement between Bosnia and Herzegovina and the OPEC Fund for International Development – A project to improve living conditions in the countryside, (c) a loan agreement and a project KFW Frankfurt on May and BiH and the Federation of BiH and the Public Enterprise "Electroprivreda" HZ Herceg-Bosna Mostar, for the project "Vetroelectrica" Mesihnova and d) the Convention on the Law Implementation Centre in South East Europe. We're moving on to working out a set agenda. Moving to point one, 7 Ad. 1. The adoption of the minutes from the 79th session of the House of Representatives You've got the record. Any objections? I don't have any reports. I'm closing the debate. We're moving on to the second item of the agenda, Ad. 2. Representative questions (a) Comments on answers received
ParlaMint-BA_2010-06-30-0.u35755	Mr. Chairman, colleagues and colleagues. It is true that I had previously received an answer to the question asked at the 84th session. I once made his comment, and then two days ago, I got an answer, an answer to my question. And look, now I want to say that I'm dissatisfied with the answers. This is an unserious, irresponsible approach to the question I've asked. So my question was that the official features of the Republic of Serbia were set in the BiH municipality at the beginning of this year, the official inscription of the municipality of Bogatiqi (?I'm interested in who did this, on which basis, what did the BiH authorities do to remove these inscriptions, especially what did the Border Police, the Foreign Ministry, the VH and the RS MUP, what were the reactions of the municipality bodies of the municipality of Bijeljina? In response to the BiH Border Police, I am, and we have all seen, is it so, a sentence that reads – that close to the international border crossing of Pavlovic Most, about 800 8 meters in the interior of BiH, compared to the international border crossing of Pavlovic Most, this board is set up and placed this inscription and mast with the flag of the Republic of Serbia. Then, in order to address this situation, the Slovenian Public Business Roads and the RS Inspectorate Office are required to urgently take measures and actions to determine the responsibility and sanction the perpetrators, remove these features, etc. Since nothing has been done, an emergency has been made. And then comes the supplemental answer from the RS MUP and listen to this. So, it is said -- that the Ministry of the Republic of Slovenia, according to this question, found that in Popovi municipality of Bijeljina, there is a board on which the Assembly of the Municipality of Bogatic, which was placed about 20 years ago at that location. Katastarski, the territory on which the board is situated, belongs to the municipality of Bogatic, the Republic of Serbia and is the result of changes in the flow of the Drina River. So this is something else compared to what I asked. But then he says -- two months ago, members of the RS Police Department recorded that on the part of the main road Bijeljina – the border crossing of Pavlovic Most was set up a board with the same inscription as the Assembly of the Municipality of Bogotic, next to which the mast of the Republic of Serbia was placed. And now he says -- the territory on which these features are set, also, are catastrian to the municipality of Bogatic, and citizens living in that municipality all rights are exercised in the Republic of Serbia. If the citizens of the municipality of Bogatic were to exercise their rights in the Republic of Serbia, that is a very clear thing, I think, and it should not have been written here in response to this question, but it is more than an obvious contradiction in what the Ministry of BiH and the Border Police of BiH say, because, as I said, in a letter from the Border Police, it is said that close to the international border crossing of Pavlovic Most, about 800 metres in the interior of BiH, compared to the international border crossing of Pavlovic Most, this was set up, therefore, in the interior of BiH, and here it is said that this was done in the territory of the municipality of Bogotic, on the part of Bijeljin-Pavlović Bridge. I am asking the BiH Council of Ministers to deal with this problem seriously. I am truly amazed by the RS government's response, i.e. the RS MUP. This is a borderline issue, a border incident that must be resolved in accordance with the rules on how border incidents are handled. That is why I asked for a supplement last time, and I ask that the BiH Council of Ministers deal with this issue in detail so that MPs do not receive such contradictory answers to completely clear questions. That's it, thank you.
ParlaMint-BA_2010-06-30-0.u35756	Thank you. The next is distinguished representative Husein Nanić.
ParlaMint-BA_2010-06-30-0.u35757	I thank you, Chairman. Fellow Members and fellow Members, distinguished guests, members of the BiH Council of Ministers. I would like to comment on the question I have raised regarding the escape of a legally convicted prisoner, i.e. a BiH citizen. I asked the Ministry of Justice, the High Court and Prosecutor's Council, the Prosecutor's Office and the Court of BiH. I received a reply from two institutions, and I thank you for your speed of response from the BiH Prosecutor General and from the BiH chief prosecutor. And unfortunately, these answers found certain facts and facts and actions and the conduct of these institutions 9 on this issue, however, none of these institutions proposed a solution that this phenomenon would no longer occur. Because through that question, I don't care about any name or name. In this case is a particular name and last name, but it is a reason that it is one phenomenon that the convicted persons are fleeing before they go to prison. And therefore, the BiH Court's response that, in particular, to my question of what it will do to make such and similar cases no longer take place, the BiH Court of Justice cannot answer because in each case and each of the defendants is acting individually and separately at the price of the circumstances. The individual circumstances of me, indeed, my motive wasn't individual cases. And the D.A.'s office, also in its statement of regret, which says it is not responsible for the release of the person from custody during the duration of the investigation and the main search... Finally, to conclude, I expected the Court and the Prosecutor's Office, the Ministry and the Police Agency, etc., to have seen the problem, and to offer a solution, that this comment would also cause them to offer a solution to make it impossible as a phenomenon, to amend, whether laws, sublegal acts, the conduct of competent institutions(?) that this phenomenon is disabled for the future period that it is (?) that it is seen as a phenomenon and that measures are taken to prevent this phenomenon. Thank you.
ParlaMint-BA_2010-06-30-0.u35758	Thank you. Are these comments or new questions? Anyone else have any comments? There isn't. Moving to b) New Agents' Issues Dear Representative Azra Alajbegović.
ParlaMint-BA_2010-06-30-0.u35760	The Honorable Chairman, ladies and gentlemen. I have one question to ask the BiH Council of Ministers, which is – What concrete measures have been taken, planned and designed on institutional support for the BiH women's entrepreneurship? At the same time, I am launching an initiative to develop a strategy for the development of women's small and medium-sized entrepreneurship with concrete proposals for the development of female entrepreneurship, particularly from the aspect of the possibility of using European funds which could, therefore, be used if the strategy would bring adequate assistance to women entrepreneurs in the ability to prepare projects with which women could compete on those funds. In an explanation, I would say that in all countries of our region women are the largest unused resource now practically frozen because of the high unemployment rate of women who have a large and 10 education and work experience, but do not have productive, or paid productive employment. The new economic development strategies have set up an imperative for the development of small and medium-sized enterprises, given that 90% of all companies in Southeast European countries are actually small and medium-sized enterprises that are the backbones of these countries' economic development. Because of the crisis that has put many jobs at risk, governments are threatening all their attention, including our government, to focus on large enterprises, to lose sight of the needs of systemic support to medium and small enterprises, and in this process they fully overlook the specific needs of women's entrepreneurship. The implementation of the current strategies of women's entrepreneurship was almost entirely dependent on donations from foreign donors. In our country we have witnessed that there have been many, however, because of the economic crisis and the rerouting of donors to other critical areas, it may already be that projects of medium and small entrepreneurship of women are being shut down because our government in its areas, I do not know whether it has foreseen certain measures to keep these projects. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-BA_2010-06-30-0.u35761	Thank you. Next is Honorable Representative Slavko Jovičić.
ParlaMint-BA_2010-06-30-0.u35762	Thank you, Mr. Chairman. Dear members of the Council of Ministers of BiH, distinguished guests from NGOs, of course, journalists, ladies and gentlemen. Well, I don't know, and it doesn't matter whether it was a year and a half or a year ago, I asked the Ministry of Justice, and I got the support of the House of Representatives, to change 2-3 members of the Criminal Law precisely to the background of these current events, where I asked then to make sure for the most difficult forms and the greatest monsters, including this terrorism, drug dealing, child rape for 9-7 years, it doesn't matter, then trade in white slavery and arms, that, according to our legislation, which provides for maximum penalties, is pronounced up to 40 years. So then I wanted to prevent the Ministry of Justice from preparing changes and supplementing this Criminal Law and not wait for cases to happen like we're going to have this point 3, we're going to have a joint session, we're going to have the state to show its strength. The state has all the mechanisms to stand in the protection of constitutional order, to protect the defence of human rights of citizens. Unfortunately, here's a year and a half, two days, nothing's been done. Was I supposed to, and could I, along with so many people at the Ministry of Justice – associates, assistants, professional people working on these jobs, really not have been able to prepare changes and add only three or four members? But, well, we've only just come to our senses when something happens and we use what we're supposed to do. So, as a clagort, I will only mention it, not because it would interfere with the work of the judicial institutions, that the scandalous statement of the prosecutor who says -- there is a constitutional order of BiH being attacked in Maoci, there it is envisaged to set aside territory, I don't know what, the destruction of this and that, and in three days these people are released from custody. Who made that appointment? If she's made an appointment, if she's scheduled parliament, if we don't have a criminal law that was necessary as a repressive measure that should warn such... so when a man who is 25 today is involved in drug dealing, let him consider getting out of prison in 70 years. The state must not be defeated by mobs and thieves. The state has all the mechanisms to deal with these monsters. And I'm really expressing, no more parliamentary question than my indignation, why didn't we put it in? Who are we afraid of? Whose rights are we protecting 11 human rights? Thieves, criminals and mobs that terrorise the decent citizens and people of this country or, of course, to protect this country from all monsters. That is why I am renewing the parliamentary issue, although it is already the end, I think it will not be realised – What was waiting to be incorporated into the legislation and the Criminal Law of only three, four members and that these maximum penalties..., I am not asking them to be pronounced, but they must be provided for in the legislation. What are we afraid of? Who are we afraid of? What human rights for the mob and thieves? We need to protect the human rights of a decent people and citizens of this country. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-BA_2010-06-30-0.u35763	Thank you. The next is Honorable Representative Martin Raguž.
ParlaMint-BA_2010-06-30-0.u35764	I thank you, Mr. President. Ladies and gentlemen. I refer my question to the BiH Council of Ministers for several reasons. First, until this morning, until the General College session, we had no official initiative that the BiH Council of Ministers would like to inform this House about what happened in Bugojn, and since we have included, on our initiative, a joint, extended College, that item of the agenda, I want to ask this as a question of who will represent the Council of Ministers of BiH during that item of the agenda, so that it can be prepared, or for the next joint session of both homes, and what is it – and has anything taken the Council of Ministers of BiH in light of all the circumstances relating to the terrorist act of attack at the Police Administration and the station in Bugojn? Why is not an extraordinary meeting of the BiH Council of Ministers with a clear message that all the measures envisioning existing laws have been taken by the state, and if they are not sufficient and possibly amending and adopting new laws to ensure and respect the security of citizens, institutions and legal order in this country, because the country's legal order has been attacked? And we who were there, on the spot, could see how it felt in the eyes of people, children, and all those who were there. And is it true that the OSA State Agency, long ago, has provided information to the competent police structures on the knowledge of potential terrorist and other dangers, and if so, why has it not responded in due time and who is responsible? Answers to these questions, if possible today, if not, we will not have a debate during the Joint session.
ParlaMint-BA_2010-06-30-0.u35765	Thank you. The next is Honorable Representative Adem Huskić.
ParlaMint-BA_2010-06-30-0.u35766	Thank you, Mr. Chairman. Dear colleagues, esteemed representatives of the Council of Ministers, NGOs. 12 I have more questions in two groups (?) And I'm going to do it very briefly. The first group of issues concerns the government of the Federation of BiH and the Government of the Middle Bosnian Canton. The question is – Who is the founder of the Center for Medical Rehabilitation "Reumal" in Fojnica? What activity is the Centre registered for? And who and when did he appoint the Management Board and the management of this institution? The second question is for the government of the Federation of BiH – What activities are currently being carried out to repair the fallen part of the waterfall in Jajc, given the fact that further damage is possible with far more serious consequences? Thank you.
ParlaMint-BA_2010-06-30-0.u35767	Thank you. The next one is Commissioner Nermin Zaimović Uzunović.
ParlaMint-BA_2010-06-30-0.u35768	Thank you very much. I thought earlier that it was a parliamentary initiative, however, it would be a parliamentary question, which reads, addressed to the BiH Council of Ministers and the Ministry of Finance – a consideration of the purchase of buildings, surrounding spaces and garages rented by the BiH Embassy in Berlin. So, initiative. And the second parliamentary question, I ask that as soon as possible, that means during the term of office of this Council of Ministers of BiH and this Parliamentary Assembly of BiH respond – at what stage is the Law on the Protection of the Environment of BiH? In fact, the BiH Environmental Protection Act is one of the short-term priorities of the European Partnership for BiH, and the issue of BiH and the EU relations has been raised for many years. The foreign trade and economic relations ministry, more specifically its Environmental Protection Department, runs an inter-entity task force that has long, for more than a year agreed on by individual members of the law, and in the EU, representatives of the EU, in a meeting with the authorities again in January to adopt the law by June this year. As we know, the law isn't even in the draft yet. That is why I am urgently asking to answer this question – Why is this law not made and why has it not come to the procedure when it should have been long ago? Thank you.
ParlaMint-BA_2010-06-30-0.u35769	Thank you. The next is distinguished representative Husein Nanić.
ParlaMint-BA_2010-06-30-0.u35770	I thank you, Chairman. Let me ask the following questions today. The first question is for the BiH Council of Ministers, and this is the next issue. Since the "Official Journal of the SRBiH" issue number 36/90 has been published by the BiH Emigrants Act, and since the Dayton Constitution provides for the continuity of the regulations and institutions until otherwise decided by the competent authority of BiH, I ask the question – on the basis of which rules and which body has put the BiH Emigrants' Emigrants Act out of force, since for a longer period of 13 years the institutions formed by this law have been excluded from the budget and the law does not fully apply in BiH? The next question is a question for the BiH Justice Ministry. It is known that perpetrators of serious crimes and war criminals cannot be legally prosecuted in absentia in front of BiH's judicial institutions for acts committed on BiH territory. Let us remind ourselves that since 2003 a reform of the judicial system has been implemented in which they were imposed, and later parliaments of all levels have confirmed four law on criminal proceedings determining that the accused cannot be tried in absentia. Unlike BiH, in neighbouring countries -- Serbia, Croatia and Montenegro, in their CFSPs, they have acquired the right to stand trial in absentia for perpetrators of crimes and war crimes committed both outside its territory and on BiH territory. Such a scenario forms a close and further future for BiH in which its judicial institutions for crimes committed on its territory will not be able to prosecute perpetrators in absentia in neighbouring countries, while neighbouring countries' judicial institutions are allowed to do so. The question is raised, given that it has already changed 17 times in BiH, why changes have never been proposed in this direction, i.e. The right to trial in absentia and whether this discriminatory legal discriminating reason for fate, both past and future "Jurišić", "Ganić", and thus thousands of other fighters, i.e. citizens of BiH. I ask, therefore, Minister – Is there any intention and is there any initiative for changes to the CAP that would allow for the right of trial in absentia as it is in neighbouring countries? And given the fact that the European Court of Human Rights in Strasbourg, as the highest European court case for 47 Member States of the Council of Europe, has also adopted rulings concerning the absentee trial (and which are also based on the judgments of this court), resulting in the fact that the existing four laws in Dayton BiH are contrary to the European Convention and thus the Dayton Constitution. So the question is for the Ministry of Justice – Are there initiatives and whether to initiate the procedure for amending this law in this direction that I have brought here. Thank you.
ParlaMint-BA_2010-06-30-0.u35771	Thank you. Next is Honorable Representative Momčilo Novaković.
ParlaMint-BA_2010-06-30-0.u35772	Thank you, Mr. Chairman. Dear colleagues. I ask the question to the director of the Agency for Medicinal Products and Medical Devices of BiH and that is – Why do domestic drug manufacturers wait longer than 90 days for the evaluation in the Agency's control laboratory? Namely, by my deep conviction, the provision of the law, which defines that this job must be done within 90 days, is not respected for purely bureaucratic reasons, so I mean procedures, and with very different motives. In fact, the ultimate motive for disrespecting this legal provision is the protection of import lobbys for medicines and medical means, rather than logically protecting domestic production and domestic producers. Thank you. 14
ParlaMint-BA_2010-06-30-0.u35773	Thank you. Next is the distinguished representative Slavko Matić.
ParlaMint-BA_2010-06-30-0.u35774	Thank you, Mr. President. Dear colleagues and fellow MPs, honored guests. I have a question for the Ministry of Foreign Affairs – How much money is available annually on behalf of the rental of facilities for the purposes of our embassies and consular offices? And how many BiH facilities have she bought so far for these needs, and how much has she received through the process of succession of the former state's assets? You know that often at this home and colleague Živković, as well as some other colleagues and colleagues, raised questions regarding the lease of facilities for the needs of BiH authorities, means, on the domestic field. I have a feeling that this problem through the burden of lease funds outside, in destinations around the world for the needs of embassies and consular offices, is even more pronounced than here, but here, here, we'll see it from the answer we got. Allow me very briefly, given that I have not responded to the comments received, just to thank you briefly, and to welcome, and to support all the activities that the Council of Ministers tries to take through the programme of rebuilding and developing the international navigation on the Sava River for the period from 2010-2015. I think it's very positive things, and it would be good if this program were truly respected. Thank you.
ParlaMint-BA_2010-06-30-0.u35775	Thank you. The next is distinguished representative Savo Erić.
ParlaMint-BA_2010-06-30-0.u35776	Thank you, Mr. Chairman. Dear colleagues, colleagues and esteemed guests. In April, I asked the BiH Council of Ministers to give us information on the inflow of VAT with a desire and intention to monitor the inflow and spending of budget funds this year. To carry out this month's analysis and to engage in the saving and monitoring of crisis flows, both in Europe and in the world. Since I have not received that answer, I ask the following question – Due to the severe economic crisis and the growing poverty and responsibilities, both the states and the citizens, I ask you to inform us about the inflow of VAT from 1.1 to 30.6.2010, inform us about the spending and realisation of budgets in all institutions of the Council of Ministers, agencies, ministries with special reference to intelligence and security agencies? And does the BiH Council of Ministers plan any savings by the end of the calendar year? Thank you.
ParlaMint-BA_2010-06-30-0.u35777	Thank you. There are no more applications to ask parliamentary questions. I'm closing this agenda. 15 We move to the third point of the established agenda, Ad. 3. Usual information of the Ministry of Security on terrorist act of attack against the police station in Bugojn The House College in an extended composition decided to place this item on today's agenda, and the conclusion is that no debate is opened. And once we hear oral information on behalf of the College, I will present to you the conclusion on this agenda point. I call on the esteemed Deputy Minister of Security, Mr. Mije Krešić, to address the PSBiH House of Representatives.
ParlaMint-BA_2010-06-30-0.u35779	Honorable President, distinguished MPs. I will brief you on the events that took place in Bugojn on 27.6.2010. So, that day, 27.6., about 4:45, by the NN face, on the street. Dr. Crescent. Vagner in Bugojn, in an official parking lot on the back of the Bugojno Police Administration building, an explosive device of greater destructive power was activated with the auxiliary front door. On that occasion, from the fact that an explosive device was activated, Ljubuškić Tarik, police officer PU Bugojno, was killed on the scene, while police officer Hindić Edin suffered serious bodily injuries and was transported to the University Clinical Medical Centre of the Kosevo Hospital in Sarajevo. Police officers Sanel Hodžić, Mugdin Škandro, Marin Kolak and Muamer Karadža suffered minor bodily injuries. Of the fact that the explosive device was caused by major material damage to the building of the Bugojno Police Administration, as well as motor vehicles parked in the said parking lot, as well as buildings and private houses behind the Bugojno Police Administration. At a critical time, Alvir Josip and Jarežina Branko, police officers of the PU Bugojno, drove a private motor vehicle to the official parking lot of Pu Bugojno, after which they noticed an unknown face next to the white bag next to the auxiliary door of the building Pu Bugojno. After police officers issued an order not to move away from the scene, the unknown face activated the explosives and ran away from the scene. Another number of police officers was sent in search of the NN face at the time, and the area was blocked by members of the Bugojno Police Station and the Middle Bosnian Canton MUP Support Unit. The face was very quickly found hidden under a tree tree near the Industrial Bank in Bugojn, and identified as Čaušević Haris, called Oks. During the search, one of the BRM 75 cashiers was found in the same room, after which he was brought into the official rooms of Pu Bugojno. During the talks, the suspect Čaušević Haris said that Naser Palislamović was also involved in the preparation and execution of this crime by a native of the Key, who went from the scene to the mall where his motor vehicle "Nisan" was parked, white, unknown registration marks. In order to carry out the crime, those persons obtained and prepared a larger quantity of mine-explosives, 2 anti-tank mines and prepared explosives of about 15 kg that had previously been hidden in the bushes in the narrow part of the city. The perpetrators brought the explosives and placed it next to the back wall of the Pu Bugojno building so that Čaušević would then set up an explosive 16 device and activate it on the wall of the Bugojno Police Administration building. As a reason for the installation and activation of these mine-explosive assets, Čaušević cited investigators in the investigation the detention of Rijad Rustempašić and the conduct of criminal proceedings against the same in the Court of BiH, and said he wanted to see the injustices being done against Muslims. In order to enlighten, document and identify motives, as well as to reveal possible tasks committed by the crime of terrorism, an investigative team has been formed under the orders of the BiH Prosecutor's Office, members of the SIPA, the Federal Police Administration and the Central Bosnian Canton Ministry, whose work includes members of the Intelligence and Security Agency. A number of people were detained in the official premises, while they were also interviewed. Some were detained, some were released and the sighting of the scene lasted until 19.30 hours when it was interrupted and until then a rope face was examined, and the found material traces were excluded for art. The insight was continued in the early morning of 28.6.2010, and at the time of writing, the same information is still going on, so yesterday. Since resourceful shops are not finished, material damage can not be estimated from the Pu Bugojno, parked vehicles and surrounding housing facilities. By the time this information is written, in the late afternoon, means 28.6., in co-ordination with the BiH Intelligence and Security Agency and police officers of the Ministry of the Interior of the Ministry of the Interior Canton of Sarajevo, the second perpetrator of this crime, Palislamović Naser, who will be handed over to the BiH Prosecutor's Office after the criminal trial. In the coming period, the investigative team led by the BiH Prosecutor's Office and the above-mentioned police agency, including the Intelligence and Security Agency, will work intensively to shed light on this act as well as documenting activities in relation to those who have helped it to implement this act. As ordered by the BiH Prosecutor's Office, until the end of the investigation, the BiH Prosecutor's Office is the only one in charge of providing detailed information. Here, that would be detailed information on the scene itself and more detailed information about this I believe will be prepared in the coming time. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-BA_2010-06-30-0.u35780	Thank you. As I have already informed you, we have agreed within the Expansive College that today we are not opening a debate on this item of the agenda, and on behalf of the Expansive College, I will only suggest one conclusion on which we will plead when it is time to declare this item of the agenda. The conclusion is that the House of Representatives of the Parliamentary Assembly of BiH strongly condemns the terrorist attack against the Police Administration of Bugojno and asks the Council of Ministers for full information on the event, and obliges the College of the House to schedule a special session of the two Houses of Parliamentary Assembly to discuss this information and information on the implementation of the action "Sacredness". You will get a proposal for this conclusion. I'm closing this third item of the agenda. 17 We move to the fourth item of the agenda, Ad. 4. Proposal for a Law on Copyright and Related Rights – Proposer: Council of Ministers of BiH (Second Reading) - Appointed Statement at the 79th session of the House 16/6.2010 At the 77th session of the House, a conclusion has been adopted which postpones the vote on the Bill's Proposal and returns to the Constitutional Legal Commission for Consention. The Constitutional Commission sent us amendments to the Law Proposal Report and decided to delete the Amendment XVIII from the Commission's Report of 29.4.2010. At the 78th session of the House, the Constitutional Legal Commission was given a conclusion that the Proposal for a Law on Copyright and Related Rights should be reconsidered in the direction of seeking compromise solutions and, in accordance with the discussion held at the 77th and 78th sessions of the House. At the 79th session of the House, a proposal for a Constitutional Commission was adopted to postpone a statement on the Bill's Proposal until this session. In the year 25.6.2010, the Commission submitted a supplement of the Report with the adopted and one agreed amendment. The commission has found that so far the reports remain unchanged. In the plenary phase of the amendment again defends MP Jerko Ivanković, 4 amendments, and asks if he remains with his amendments? He's gone. There is no debate today on the bill's proposal, but we are only pleading on the Bill's proposal and possibly on the amendments of MPs Jerko Ivanković Lijanović. We're going to the fifth item of the agenda, Ad. 5. Proposal for a Law on collective exercise of copyright and related rights – Proposer: Council of Ministers of BiH (second reading) – deferred statement at the 79th session of the House on 16.6.2010
ParlaMint-BA_2010-06-30-0.u35785	Please, I believe that consent has been reached and I'm joining what the Constitutional Commission has brought on its... so I didn't hear you very well... So I'm giving up on everyone because they've agreed on a part of those amendments that I've proposed.
ParlaMint-BA_2010-06-30-0.u35786	So, distinguished representative Nermina Zaimović Uzunović gave up her 20 amendments. The Honorable Chairman of the Constitutional Committee, Mr. Šefik Džaferović.
ParlaMint-BA_2010-06-30-0.u35787	I know, Mr. Chairman, colleagues and colleagues, that there is no discussion, but allow me, as chairman of the Constitutional Commission, to say just a few sentences concerning both of these laws, because I have to admit that in this term we have no longer bothered about some laws like these two laws. And a public debate, and one session of the commission, and another session of the commission, and a third session of the commission. I think we have finally managed to reconcile the positions of collective copyright protection organisations, on the one hand, the media on the other hand, the Institute of Intellectual Property and the Council of Ministers of BiH, here is the director, on the other hand. 19 We have also formed special teams that need to work, and this is the maximum of what could have been achieved. Furthermore, there's no point in any work, but simply voting on amendments, so we'll see. I call on all my colleagues to give up the amendment, because this has been agreed by the entire task force working on it. I needed to say that, thank you very much.
ParlaMint-BA_2010-06-30-0.u35788	Thank you. No more reports. I'm closing the debate. Moving to the sixth point of the established agenda, Ad. Six. Proposal for a law supplementing the Service Act in the Armed Forces of Bosnia and Herzegovina – Proposer: SDA Club MPs (second reading) At the 79th House session, held on 16.6.2010, the bill was adopted in the first reading. The responsible Defence and Security Committee presented the report on 28.6.2010. The commission accepted the proposed text of the law and proposed to Dom the next conclusion – The BiH Parliamentary Assembly's House of Representatives requires the Ministry of Finance and Treasury to deliver an opinion on the assessment of financial resources that would explain whether financial resources are needed in the framework of the BiH institutions' 2010 budget for the implementation of this law. I'm opening a debate on the draft law in the second reading. Dear Representative Bakir Izetbegović.
ParlaMint-BA_2010-06-30-0.u35790	So, yes, I repeat what has already been said, that the Law meets all three aspects, to say this problem, that is, the goal of solving this problem. One has accelerated BiH's path to NATO structures, the other is to take care of people in those years, 35 to 40, so, to which engagement contracts in the Armed Forces stand out, this humanitarian aspect. And finally renewing the army and giving the young army a chance to get a job. This proposal satisfied all three. The minimum pension would be 50% pension in BiH. This year's expenses are 1.65 million. Normally, we didn't do this budget ourselves, we did it with the ministry people. The new army would do domestic service, no payload for past work, so, for this year, it's really about modest means. Here, we're going to wait, I mean, we're going to get the Ministry of Finance's answer, but I've already been in contact with them and I've got an oral response that's pretty much like that, that's one exact bill, so I'm asking you to back this law today. 20
ParlaMint-BA_2010-06-30-0.u35791	Thank you. The next is distinguished representative Husein Nanić.
ParlaMint-BA_2010-06-30-0.u35792	I thank you, Chairman. Here, I wouldn't repeat what's been said here in the law and what the president of my club said. What I would like to say is that I hope that this law will be supported and that we have another category of soldiers who were, in effect, members of military formations in the period of '92-'95. years, and they don't have the condition to have two years in military formations. They are somewhere over 300 soldiers who will not be able to exercise their right, or remain without a contract and remain without existence. In that direction, I would suggest a conclusion and I would ask my fellow Members to support it, that, given the very not active involvement of the ministry in this problem, we should task the ministry to take advantage of legal opportunities, existing legal opportunities related to the resolution of the status of those soldiers who do not have that condition. So, it's about extending the contract to 45 years, because the minister can do it himself, so by his decision, the law allows him to do it, because I've been approached by cases and demands that many of them, because of signing the contract, have accepted to be soldiers, give up their rank, so that, who had the rank of officers and officers, that their next point is the possibility of returning the rank of officers or officers and receiving civil service, because we didn't get information from the ministry what the situation is. And the fourth thing is to form a reserve composition. I think the four things that the law allows, the existing law... does not require any change, enough that most of these 300 soldiers, who don't have this condition for up to two years, who were in the military, to resolve their existence. And I hope it gets support from fellow MPs. I'll suggest that conclusion to the ministry.
ParlaMint-BA_2010-06-30-0.u35793	Thank you. No more reports. I'm closing the debate.
ParlaMint-BA_2010-06-30-0.u35794	I apologize, we have agreed on a Commission for Defence and Protection and have unanimously supported this law, with the conclusion that the Ministry of Finance of the Ministerial Council is being shown today in the Assembly whether there is money for it. I would ask you, if there is a deputy, if he can say it exists, because, I say, on that committee we all unanimously supported this conclusion, so if we can get that answer, it would be very, very correct because of the vote itself.
ParlaMint-BA_2010-06-30-0.u35795	Dear Deputy Minister of Finance and Treasury, Mr Kasumović. 21
ParlaMint-BA_2010-06-30-0.u35796	The Honorable Chairman, the Honorable Chairman, the Honorable Representatives, ladies and gentlemen. The ministry of finance and vaults officially hasn't gotten this conclusion yet, we've got it, so, on other lines, and it's working on it right now. I'll tell you next. So in the last three years, there are 120 million left in the budget this year. I mean, we never spend our budgets till the end. If it's a million and 600 or 650 thousand, it's not funds that can't be secured, but in the extreme version, I'm obliged to say, since we haven't finished that, no matter how many economists make the budget, the budget is a political act, the one that you here need to make and every law or conclusion you make in the executive power is to honor it. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-BA_2010-06-30-0.u35797	Thank you. No more reports. I'm closing the debate. We're going to the seventh item of the agenda, Ad. Seven. Proposal for a Law on Census, Households and Apartments in Bosnia and Herzegovina 2011 – Proposer: Temporary Commission, (second reading) At the 79th House session, held on 16.6.2010, the bill was adopted in the first reading. The responsible Committee for Economic Reform and Development delivered the report on 28.6.2010 without the amendments adopted. In the plenary phase, the amendments re-defended representatives: Azra Hadžiahmetović 3, Remzija Kadrić 4 amendments, Milorad Živković 2, SNSD Club 6 amendments and Momčilo Novaković 1 amendment. Also, MP Halid Genjac has wrongly submitted 1 amendment, so the House will not declare it. I'm opening a debate on the draft law in the second reading. There are no reports. I'm closing the debate. ROMSIA
ParlaMint-BA_2010-06-30-0.u35799	/no microphone turned on/
ParlaMint-BA_2010-06-30-0.u35800	I'm sorry, you're reacting slowly, or I'm closing fast. Dear Representative Remzija Kadrić.
ParlaMint-BA_2010-06-30-0.u35801	I thank you, Chairman. 22 In time, I applied for..., therefore, I would like to briefly explain why I am renewing my amendments to the Bill on List of Populations, Households and Apartments in BiH in 2011. Here I would try to, at least when it comes to this Amendment III which has received support on this Commission for Economic Reform and Development, as regards, therefore, this Article 9. – data on households and agricultural holdings, therefore, I suggest that the word “persons who have land” be added to the words, that the words are added instead: “they were owners either at their disposal or in possession of land.” It would be important that, I think it would be important, given that this amendment and the Commission have received one majority support, that we accept this amendment and it would not harm anyone, it would benefit many households who are not in a position to fully dispose of their land, it is not available to them for a variety of reasons – because of the inability to access the land, because of the unfulfilled return of that land and the various reasons. Therefore, in order to avoid all possible problems and dilemmas about it, I think it would be good to accept this amendment and thus remove many dilemmas, many doubts. When it comes to these two amendments, the first and the second ones, which are related to... I don't know, this commission that did this bill, I think it interpreted the usual place of residence closely. I would like to say that this usual place of residence should be directly attached to the residence, because it is assumed that the person who has a residence in BiH, that such a person has the usual place of residence. Because in this, in Article 1 of this proposal, the law can also go in this direction, so it is said – the usual place of residence, the place where the person lives and usually spends his daily vacation, regardless of the temporary..., the purpose of recreation, rest, visitation of friends, relatives, work, school, treatment or religious pilgrimage. So, many, to be quite concrete, our refugees who are outside and have a residence in BiH, they are absent, temporarily absent, but occasionally come to that address whenever, according to this revised strategy, they will return to their place of residence. Thus, it is his usual place of residence where he should return and is bound to his residence. Therefore, I think it would be good for these two amendments... to be useful, well, at least, if this third amendment, as an amendment, were to be accepted as such and in such a way to dispel many dilemmas, given the possibility of using land, access to that land that has certain issues. Therefore, it is, I had a need to briefly explain my amendments and I think that I should accept them.
ParlaMint-BA_2010-06-30-0.u35802	Thank you. The next is a respected representative of Azra Hadžiahmetović.
ParlaMint-BA_2010-06-30-0.u35803	Thank you, Chairman. On behalf of the Party for BiH MPs, I reiterated the amendments to the law, i.e., the Bill on Census, I reiterated our views once again that we appreciate that we should focus only on binding elements of the census. The reason and argument that comes in our favor, our position, is also the debate and disputes so far most about those 23 elements that are not binding, and thus leave both open and question whether, and the usability of the data obtained on the basis of the list, including such elements. We appreciate that this time BiH should avoid an ethnic census, i.e. a list of these criteria, and three amendments have been proposed in this respect, which are also a premise for the Party's definition of BiH in the vote on the List Law. Thank you.
ParlaMint-BA_2010-06-30-0.u35804	Thank you. The next is distinguished representative Branko Dokić.
ParlaMint-BA_2010-06-30-0.u35805	Mr. Chairman, I was in a dilemma whether or not to report to you at all, but I still feel a need like, I consider myself the most responsible in the name of this group that you have appointed, or, or, which we have appointed, to make the bill, to say, a few sentences not wanting to cause any replicas, or at this point to affect the views of anyone here or any of the MPs' clubs. The fact is, when, in the end, I would like the result not to be a simple sum of so far's views of individual clubs. Because if that's how decisions were made, then we wouldn't need a session like this at all. These sessions also serve to exchange opinions, to hear different attitudes and to come up with that solution that is in the interest of all. I'm convinced, and I'm deeply convinced that we have a law that's in the interest of everyone. A law that does not prefer anyone, a law that is not against anyone, or any entity, or any ethnic group in BiH, a law of general interest and a law that requires that the international community also adopt. And I don't know the results of last night's debate at PIC, but I know for a fact that this was one of the topics of last night's debate. Compared to the previous session, when we had the first reading, we have a new element, we have a adopted strategy on resolving the issues of refugees and displaced persons, here, this gives us hope that in the next few years, or four, five years, we will solve that issue and that the issue will be behind us. So here, that's one new element. I don't think any political option will get any more in these elections at the moment if it shows a lack of readiness for something of general interest, but rather the opposite. So here, if that means anything, my appeal to find solutions in some way, to let this law pass and thus allow BiH to be, as well as all countries of the world, a country that will have a list next year. And I'm sure we'll all benefit from that list. Both the BiH state and all, as I say, grouply, here and ethnically if you will, and it can also be a turning point in solving many issues that were not based on some real assumptions, but on, I would say, often the frustrations that were the result of our unfortunate events in the war that we had behind us. So here's another appeal for anything to think about when we vote and to create conditions for this law to pass. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-BA_2010-06-30-0.u35806	Thank you. 24 The next is the First Vice-President, Mr. Beriz Belkić.
ParlaMint-BA_2010-06-30-0.u35807	I'm not going to repeat our views, we've made it quite clear enough here on many occasions, and that's what the club president was talking about, but here, seeing as there's a possibility that there's a deal between actors who believe this is what we should do, which is what we don't believe, but, here, to be fair, I don't think there's a single failure being seen, so I'm drawing attention to the actors of the deal. So it's agreed, it seems to be listed as an optional national, religious, language specific. Article 8 lists the population that will be listed and mention, among other things, the national, religious, and native languages. Article 11 states that persons are required to answer all of these questions in their list of forms correctly and completely, meaning, both nationality, religious and mother tongue. And Article 12 speaks the following, Mr. Dokić, please follow me, so I don't know if this is an agreement, so Article 12 speaks the following - about exceptions, so he says - the person in Article 11, paragraph 1, it is not mandatory to declare the national, ethnic and religious membership. And the pattern will teach you that. So the language is not mentioned as an exception, he will be required. Imagine the implications.
ParlaMint-BA_2010-06-30-0.u35808	Thank you. No more reports. I'm closing the debate. We're going to the eighth item of the agenda, Ad. 8. Proposal for a Voluntary Law – Proposer: Council of Ministers of BiH (first reading) The proposer, the BiH Council of Ministers, delivered the law in the procedure of 8.6.2010. The respective Constitutional Legislative Commission delivered its opinion on constitutional basis and principles on 25.06.2010. I'm opening a debate on the bill in the first reading. Dear Representative Šefik Džaferović.
ParlaMint-BA_2010-06-30-0.u35810	On behalf of the Constitutional Commission, I propose to the House to support the Law in its first reading. A new BiH area is being arranged, and this has nothing to do with volunteer work related to employment. This has to do with the volunteering institution (or else in the Bosnian Herzegovina state and 25 society), and it is not, that it is not misunderstood, that when someone is employed as a volunteer and then gets points that they can go to work later, so it is not the subject of this law. Volunteering, in the broadest sense of the word, with rights and obligations, and I think this is a good thing that BiH has and I suggest that this be supported in the first and second readings. Second, when there's a vacuum, now about the first.
ParlaMint-BA_2010-06-30-0.u35811	Thank you. I don't have any more logs. I'm closing the debate. Point nine, Ad. Nine. Proposal for a Framework Law on Free Legal Assistance – Proposer: Council of Ministers of BiH (first reading) Proposer, the Council of Ministers of BiH, the law delivered in procedure 08.06.2010. The respective Constitutional Legislative Commission delivered its opinion on constitutional basis and principles on 25.06.2010. I'm opening a debate on the bill in the first reading. Dear Representative Šefik Džaferović.
ParlaMint-BA_2010-06-30-0.u35813	We tried several times to pass this law in the BiH Parliamentary Assembly, unfortunately, it was not working out for us. As you can see, this is now a framework law, which means that other levels of government have their own laws in BiH from this area. The point is, therefore, that everyone in this country, that is the standard, otherwise, of both European and all developed democracies in the world, has legal assistance whether we have the means to do so or not. And that, therefore, is the essence of this law's legion. I suggest that this law be supported. There are some suggestions from an NGO called your rights or something, I said they write it on the Constitutional Commission, so we'll see until the next phase of what it is. That's it, thank you.
ParlaMint-BA_2010-06-30-0.u35814	Thank you. I don't have any more logs. Moving to agenda 10, 26 Ad. Ten. Proposal for a Law amending the Law on Administrative Disputes of Bosnia and Herzegovina – Proposer: Council of Ministers of BiH (first reading) Proposer, the Council of Ministers of BiH, the law delivered in procedure 04.06.2010. The respective Constitutional Legislative Commission delivered its opinion on constitutional basis and principles on 25.06.2010. I'm opening a debate on the bill in the first reading. Dear Representative Šefik Džaferović.
ParlaMint-BA_2010-06-30-0.u35816	A short law that regulates precise deadlines for the administration and courts' handling, especially courts in administrative disputes when it comes to staying foreigners in BiH. So, logical law prescribes rights, obligations and deadlines, precises them, and I suggest that the House adopt them. Thank you.
ParlaMint-BA_2010-06-30-0.u35817	Thank you. No more reports. I'm closing this agenda. We're going to the 11th point, Ad. 11. Proposal for a law on achieving Bosnia and Herzegovina's co-operation with emigration – Proposers: Lejla Klokić, Sadik Bahtić, Husein Nanić and Remzija Kadrić (first reading) Representatives Lejla Klokić, Sadik Bahtić, Husein Nanić and Remzija Kadrić delivered the zakon to regular procedure on 25.05.2010. The Constitutional Foundation Committee delivered its opinion on 08.06.2010. The relevant Joint Committee on Human Rights, the rights of the child, youth, immigration, refugees, asylum and ethics delivered its opinion on principles on 29.06.2010. I also remind you that the European Integration Directorate delivered its opinion on 07.06.2010. I'm opening a debate on the bill in the first reading. Dear representative Lejla Klokić.
ParlaMint-BA_2010-06-30-0.u35819	Thank you, Chairman. Dear colleagues and colleagues. 27 I will only try to explain in short lines why we should need this law on achieving BiH's co-operation with emigrants. Under number one, it could be said because of the population's population in the eviction. There are about 1,350,000 people living outside the country who lead from BiH, which is why our country is one of the most numerous eviction countries in the world compared to the total population. Out of the country lives about 1/3 of the population in BiH, which places us second in the world by the number of emigrants compared to the total population. The second reason is a huge human resource. The percentage of emigration from BiH is 28.6%, so in bh. We have huge human potentials that can help our country develop. Immigrants are young and educated. It consists of the most economically active population, an average age of 41.5 years, which is thought of by the EU, and 30 years in the United States. In the United States, university or postgraduate education has 13.7% of Bosnian Herzegovic emigrants, and in Europe even up to 25%. The third reason would be because of a huge flow of cash inflows. BiH is one of the world's leading countries in terms of monetary income from emigration compared to gross social product. It's second in Europe and fifth in the world. The share of Bosnian Herzegovina's cash shipments in BiH's gross social product has been moving from 10% to 20% in recent years. According to the BiH Central Bank, the value of Bosnia and Herzegovina's emigration money is far higher than the inflow of foreign direct investment in BiH, and several times higher than BiH's aid. Bosnia and Herzegovina's emigration covered a third of BiH's trade deficit in 2004-2007. The savings of Bosnian Herzegovina's emigrants in banks outside BiH are several times higher than the amount of money sent to BiH. It should work to attract this savings in BiH and direct it to the country's development. So this law will create conditions for more efficient use of the diaspora's potential for BiH's development. The law will show that BiH cares about eviction and is ready to co-operate. The law is general and does not enter into political issues, does not touch the organisation and way of organising emigration. The law even provides for the establishment of a Standing Committee on Co-ordination of Co-operation with Immigrants, established in accordance with the constitutional and legal competences of institutions towards emigration, is meant by the Ministry of Human Rights and Refugees and the Ministry of Foreign Affairs, the Ministry of Civil Affairs, the government of entities and the Brcko District. As for funding the Permanent Committee on Co-ordination with Immigrants, its work requires a minimum of 10,000 KM financing, which is insignificant compared to BiH's financial and other contribution to BiH's development. Therefore, respecting all of the above mentioned, therefore, the number, overall human, professional and financial potential with which the Bosnian-Herzegovina emigration is available, as well as the willingness to actively participate in the development of the country of origin, it is necessary to take measures to include emigration in the development of BiH. By passing this law, there will be conditions for co-operation with the emigrants that will produce concrete results, and the huge resources that the emigrants possess will be more effectively used to develop BiH. That's why I, dear colleagues and colleagues, invite you to accept this bill. 28 Thank you.
ParlaMint-BA_2010-06-30-0.u35820	Thank you. The next is Remzija Kadrić, a respected representative.
ParlaMint-BA_2010-06-30-0.u35821	I thank you, Chairman. I have been on this Commission for Human Rights, Refugees, Asylum, Youth and Ethics, and I can say that I was pleasantly surprised by the debate on this committee in which the great contribution to accepting these principles of this law was given to the President of the House, Mr. Niko Lozančić, who spoke affirmably of this law, and I would like to say that I welcome such a relationship with this law. So really this law, when it comes to first reading, would be good to accept it. I was recently staying, when we were a commission in Germany in Berlin, I spoke with many of those representatives of the association and the representatives of the diaspora from neighbouring countries. (Here Serbia is a diaspora, one of the main foreign policy activities, people there), the state gives the diaspora great importance. Many neighbouring countries have their own diaspora ministries, Serbia, Croatia, etc. So we would really do well to accept the principles of this law. So here's what the president of the commission was saying, it's really an exhaustive explanation, so this diaspora, what we can at least give to that diaspora is that we accept this law and through the institutions we link this diaspora with the state and the state with the diaspora. Therefore, I call upon you, indeed, to accept the principles of this law; in the amendment phase, if necessary, to make this law even more quality, to make it and thus to regulate this area. Thank you.
ParlaMint-BA_2010-06-30-0.u35822	Thank you. The next is distinguished representative Husein Nanić.
ParlaMint-BA_2010-06-30-0.u35823	I thank you, Chairman. Here, we have text in the first reading of the BiH Law on Co-operation with Immigrants. I don't think we should repeat the already known facts regarding our emigrants and those data that are listed here in the explanation why BiH needs such a law or a certain kind of legal act. So far, BiH has no legal act, nor has there been a regulation defining BiH's work with emigration. BiH is the first or second country in the world that, by the number of its emigrants... and the third thing, I would just like to say as an argument, that it is officially entering BiH, according to data from the Central Bank of BiH, over 2 billion points, but the data is far higher and moving in an estimate of around 8 billion marks of the money being imported into BiH. And that money pays a clean VAT, so that's over 1.5 billion just from the money that comes and that's the best export product from those segments when we look at it 29. Other dimensions here, not to mention which ones are here but also spoken and which are in the light of the law. What is really a real fact, that BiH is bound by this law and without this law to care for all its citizens, both in BiH and outside BiH, and this law determines that BiH is a country of origin, that BiH has an obligation, as part of foreign and internal policy, to care for emigrants. What is still important here in this law, it is indeed a very small step, but at this point I think it is possible to agree on these things in this assembly of the BiH Parliament and in this political atmosphere, to establish this permanent co-operation committee that has seven members. And the other thing I see, the important thing in this law, is to commit the Council of Ministers of BiH to do a strategy of co-operation with emigrants. These are two things that, in my opinion, are crucial in this law and I hope that this law, the principles of this law, will receive support in the first reading. Thank you.
ParlaMint-BA_2010-06-30-0.u35824	Thank you. The next is respected, the second vice president, Dr. Milorad Živković.
ParlaMint-BA_2010-06-30-0.u35825	Thank you, Chairman. My fellow Members and fellow Members, ladies and gentlemen. Two short questions that came up in the light of this law. The first is addressed to the Ministry of Human Rights and Refugees – Why is it not the legislator of this law and why did this law not go through the regular procedure, which was meant to go through the Council of Ministers of BiH, when it was established by the Council of Ministers programme? And the second question is to the promoters – why didn't they at least honour that this law, which came directly from the Ministiary for Human Rights and Refugees, adapt to the promoters who are here in signing? In fact, only two parts, first on a legal basis, the last position, which states that the human rights ministry's jurisdiction has been established, shows that this is not a law that came from MPs, but a law that came from the Human Rights Ministry, because MPs do not need jurisdiction to propose laws, nor should they state whose jurisdiction it is when they propose those laws. At the same time, in the part concerning the reasons for the proposed legal solutions, which states the name of the law, in the second position, in fact in the first position, it is stated "that the Ministry of Human Rights and Refugees, as a legislator...". And it's not clear to me now whether they're the bill promoter or whether they're colleagues who wrote here. So two questions. One for the Ministry, the other for the promoters, and then we'll give our opinion on this law. 30
ParlaMint-BA_2010-06-30-0.u35826	Thank you. The next is the distinguished representative Vinko Zorić. Here, one of the proposings, if he wants, can answer these questions.
ParlaMint-BA_2010-06-30-0.u35827	Well, I also noticed what my colleague Živković noticed, but I noticed something else. So either it's not a good definition of emigrants or it's not exactly this data that my colleague Lejla was saying, which is written in an explanation. Namely, either the Ministry's data is inaccessible... so here they are, by copying... I am the most concerned with item 2, in the explanation which says – the largest number bh. emigrants live in EU countries, around etc., and are not mentioned in neighbouring countries. No mention is made of neighbouring countries where I claim to live more emigrants than there is available in the ministry, which is 1,350,000. Because the definition says – which have origin and do not even have to have citizenship. I claim that more than this number lives only in the Croatian emigrants. Or your definition isn't good. And I think this law, however, is politically colored, colleague Lejla. I'm sorry, I think so. Thank you.
ParlaMint-BA_2010-06-30-0.u35828	Would anyone like to comment or give an answer to the esteemed Mr. Živković? Here's Remzija Kadrić's esteemed representative.
ParlaMint-BA_2010-06-30-0.u35829	So these remarks that have been made are really technical. We're talking about the principles of the law here, you're now focusing on an explanation. It is the law taken over by the Ministry of Human Rights and Refugees, because the law at the BiH Council of Ministers has not received support. Now, here, they'll only complain about those technical questions, I don't think that's justified. We can, I said, if there are objections to the principles of the law, to some provisions, to do so at the amendment stage as so correct, to fix, etc. I mean, we're just saying, let's focus on the principles of this law. I don't think it's... And this law is not politically colored, this law is necessary. The refugees, the diaspora that belongs to any nation expects this law to be passed, and that is what we can least do for the diaspora. It was a diaspora in neighbouring countries, in Western Europe, etc. So I think we should focus on these things and not on some technical questions to focus on and that, that we're hiding behind it if we're going to break the principles of this law. 31
ParlaMint-BA_2010-06-30-0.u35830	Thank you. Replica, distinguished representative Momčilo Novaković.
ParlaMint-BA_2010-06-30-0.u35831	Thank you, Mr. Chairman. I would like to express my disagreement with my colleague Kadrić when he said this was about technical remarks. Look, if some law doesn't get support in the Council of Ministers, I wouldn't call it a technical question. Maybe it is for a colleague, but I'm sure it's not a technical question. Obviously, the promoters were quick, so they were working, they took over this text without enough, and even reading, because they got through, so let's say a technical question, which is mentioned as the promoter of the ministry and it's not. At the end of the day, the law may have been required, given BiH's structure, to agree on other levels, and only then to propose here. And I'm sure that it was done and that in such a way that the text of the law, that he wouldn't be a technical question today, wouldn't be technical here, in fact, that there wouldn't be any of these remarks and that today would be much easier for me to come to the law. Because the fact is that we all think that certain issues and ties with emigrants must exist and that at some levels they have to work, but I don't think that's how it's done, and not even a moment, is good at proposing this law. And that's why I'm not sure this whole thing is making any sense right now. Thank you.
ParlaMint-BA_2010-06-30-0.u35832	Thank you. The next is distinguished representative Denis Bećirović. _________(?) [[no microphone turned on]] Excuse me, replicated second vice president, Dr. Milorad Živković.
ParlaMint-BA_2010-06-30-0.u35834	Here, most of all, Ambassador Novaković responded to what I wanted to say, but here I will add to that, given that it is technical remarks, under quotes, we will have a technical approach to vote in this law.
ParlaMint-BA_2010-06-30-0.u35835	Thank you. Next is Remzija Kadrić, a replica. 32
ParlaMint-BA_2010-06-30-0.u35836	It's clear you'll have technical access. That's clear. It's not the first time we have a technical approach when it comes to voting on something. So, we are always technically responding to some technical remarks and we are covered by this technical vote on technical remarks. It's a very clear thing and they're not technicians. Therefore, here it is indeed, not to repeat, rather than to focus on the debate on the principles of this law rather than on technical issues, then we will, of course, technically and respond to the vote, by technical voting on technical issues. It's quite clear.
ParlaMint-BA_2010-06-30-0.u35837	The next is distinguished representative Denis Bećirović.
ParlaMint-BA_2010-06-30-0.u35838	Well, unfortunately, here we are, in the fourth year of this term, we can freely conclude that in these four years, two things have mostly reigned in this House. Under number 1 – political destruction, and number 2 – part and political vanity. When I say political destruction, it is the destruction that brought down and brought down all the laws that were meant to build a normal, functioning state of BiH that would speed up the path towards the EU. As that destruction looks like, you saw it in the last session, and here we are today at the vote. Probably on the example of this SDP bill on amendments and additions to the Criminal Law, two readings pass, let's say the commission accepts it twice, and then eventually without any debate, without any objections, without any amendments, people accidentally vote against. This cannot happen in any BiH Parliament(?) and that is what we should imagine in BiH, but those who have made such a constitution and such solutions with us. I think that when it comes to this law, there is a basis for us to support this law today. If there are any objections, etc., they should be invested as they are done in all other parliaments. It doesn't have to be politically vain, so now look because the MPs from some other parties have suggested it, let us take it down, because in 2-3 months, the elections are. Whoever suggests a good solution, then just one day before the elections, I think it is useful here in the BiH Parliament to adopt it. The colleagues should be thanked for their efforts to make one such law, and the real issue should be asked to the BiH Council of Ministers and the competent ministry why they did not make such a law. And now, as the debate has begun, it will be worse for those who have tried to make something, than for those who were obliged to make this law and hundreds of other laws and measures that this state should adopt.
ParlaMint-BA_2010-06-30-0.u35839	Thank you. Replica, the esteemed second vice president, Dr. Milorad Živković. 33
ParlaMint-BA_2010-06-30-0.u35840	It's like some people don't attend when they're discussing this. Here, first I'll start with the false quote. Well, these people didn't make that law. That's the law they got, please. Well, I guess you're all clear here that they haven't changed a point since the law came. And the other thing, about that, and that's the essence of the speech now, I thought I'd end this point of the agenda in a simple way, but obviously, those who are destroying the system in BiH can't bring BiH down. The system is when laws are made to consult those who are put into law, which are entities and District Brcko, etc., etc. That system is broken here, you're not asked. After that, the BiH Council of Ministers brought down the law, and there was a problem. And you're asking for us to be technically... or to talk about the essence of this law. Those who call for the system are constantly destroying the system in BiH are constantly overcoming the problem of respecting the BiH system. And respect for the BiH system is the key to the functioning of this country, not in this detour, constantly complaining about the Dayton Agreement, the Constitution and the complexity... calling for some things. You, who accuse the RS and the MPs who answer your laws that did not go through the system, are guilty of why this country is in this position.
ParlaMint-BA_2010-06-30-0.u35841	Thank you. Replica, the esteemed representative Husein Nanić.
ParlaMint-BA_2010-06-30-0.u35842	I thank you, Chairman. I didn't want to report for the replica at first, since I'm one of the promoters and a few statements that were related to this law... First of all, Mr. Novaković when he says he didn't pass the procedure, and now Mr. Živković. I would understand if you wanted to make a contribution to the adoption of this law, that you might suggest a conclusion on the opening of a public debate under this law, not that you refuse. The second thing, on the BiH Council of Ministers, the law was rejected, according to my information, without any arguments. We don't want that. The third thing is the fact that it really happened that over a million, million and three hundred thousand people have been expelled from BiH, that they are trying constantly, through those regulations that would give a certain link or the possibility to connect these expelled people with the country of origin, that they are not adopted in this home, that BiH does not pass such laws as the Law on Citizenship, so they cannot, in 2013, lose citizenship, all of our citizens, by the force of the laws which, so determined by this law, are not otherwise possible in this House, there is no new law, we know that there have been really several attempts, we cannot pass the Law on emigration. The queen of the emigrants has been completely eliminated, the law is, is not implemented although it is in force, problems in the electoral process, amendments to the electoral law, the possibility of our diaspora voting electronically and in the way possible. You can see here a policy that is against emigrants, against people who have been expelled from this country, that they are an integral part of the state and that they are incorporated into all segments of this society. 34 In that sense, I also understand these polemics, but I was hoping that this level of content of this law would still be supported in the BiH Parliamentary Assembly. And the next thing you know, if it needs to be settled, it would be good to suggest a conclusion to have a public debate and move on.
ParlaMint-BA_2010-06-30-0.u35843	Replica, the esteemed representative of Remzija Kadrić.
ParlaMint-BA_2010-06-30-0.u35844	It is quite clear, it has no dilemma, that Republika Srpska, representatives, will not give consent to this law, it is clear. And there are clear reasons why they won't give consent to pass this law. They will not participate in the concept of this law. Why? It's a very clear thing because the previous authorities, which are in agreement with today's authorities in the RS, are that these people who have been expelled from the RS, who have been expelled, those who have not been killed, who have been expelled from their homes, that these people should never be returned to their homes. That's why RS is against this law. These things are quite clear.
ParlaMint-BA_2010-06-30-0.u35845	Next replica, distinguished representative Momčilo Novaković.
ParlaMint-BA_2010-06-30-0.u35846	You see, as the debate goes on, some things are becoming clearer and it's obvious that everyone in their own way is interpreting this. Look, I thought by this definition the emigrants didn't just avoid and displaced faces. Mr. Kadrić has narrowed this down very closely to that group of people, and of course, in fact, sincere intentions about resolving the issue of emigrantism have put into question. Secondly, if it is clear to everyone that, here, as Mr. Kadrić said, S (?) It's not for this, so why did we propose this? Is that a political motive, if we know something's not gonna go away? Is this suggested from political motives, then, if we know that they will not be supported by Parliament or what is the objective? I didn't discuss it today, I didn't even want to discuss it by counting that mostly today political party representatives who didn't put together the lists, and since we put together the lists, then there's no need for these discussions, but here, because of some replicas, because of some of the things here, I had to answer. Well, it's not like the way we vote is based on whether we have an amendment or not. There are legal solutions that are so bad that you can't fix the amendments. And it is normal to be against such solutions as Criminal Law, that is, amendments to the Criminal Law that are proposed. I think it would be a good idea if the proposings were to withdraw this law in good faith and that this session is really going on and on, so, in the way we started, without getting into some formulations now that can cause a problem here, such as these colleagues, Kadrić, who I don't want to talk about at all today, who's being expelled from, where, for what reasons and for which parts of BiH. If we get into it, and every day I'm going down the road from Zenica to Sarajevo, so I see a lot of broken houses, etc., if I get into that story, then we're going into something the promoter didn't want. I don't think that's what he wanted with this proposal. Thank you. 35
ParlaMint-BA_2010-06-30-0.u35847	Replica, the esteemed representative Denis Bećirović.
ParlaMint-BA_2010-06-30-0.u35848	So I just want to say in the shortest possible terms that I have pointed out the general facts, which is that there is something in this Parliament and in this country called political destruction and political obstruction. When I was talking about this political destruction and obstruction, I didn't even mention parties or people or entities at all. Why did my colleague Živković find himself in that story, recognized in that story, etc., that's not clear to me? And I don't know why he just found himself invited and called to respond to those allegations? I'm really not getting into that.
ParlaMint-BA_2010-06-30-0.u35849	Replica, the distinguished representative of Sadik Bahtić.
ParlaMint-BA_2010-06-30-0.u35850	Thank you. I answered because I'm also one of the promoters. As an MP, I even asked the BiH Council of Ministers why he did not put the Diaspora Act on the agenda, so he was, as we heard, so he was rejected, because for a few years he stood the law. The ministry has sent more acts, however, the BiH Council of Ministers, chairing the deaf, obviously did not care about the law being passed. I'll relate to the story that it's no pre-election law, that we need that law. That's one third of the total population. What country in the world gives up its diaspora? I understand colleagues from the RS why they're against it. This is a huge potential for the BiH state, this diaspora, from the human resources. Two-and-a-half billion of them pay each year... these signs, from the investments that that diaspora has invested. So obviously those who are against this law are not in the interest of strengthening the BiH state. This law would make the BiH state stronger. What kind of message we send to our diaspora, doesn't matter what nation it is, has been expelled from one and the other and third people. I think we should bring this, because that diaspora is coming, I come from Krajina where we have the most diaspora. You can't get away from the car in summer. People are bitter about the state's attitude toward them. I think we should do something in the interest of all people, because we're currently living off that diaspora, believe me. In the time of recession and economic crisis and signs, diaspora and investment, summer everything works when the diaspora comes and then how to treat them like this. Thank you.
ParlaMint-BA_2010-06-30-0.u35851	The next replica, MP Milica Marković.
ParlaMint-BA_2010-06-30-0.u35852	Thank you, Mr. Chairman. My replica refers to the presentation of my colleagues, Remzija Kadrić. Just by listening to him, a man can only wonder if that man listens to himself. And his exposure simply offends 36 common senses in this House. His explanation, which he stated, is why the MPs of the RS will not support, he already knows that we will not support it, and we haven't even said, at least the SNSD Club hasn't said if they will support it or not support this law. But if he hadn't said what he said in his presentation, we might have thought this law wasn't politically colored. But I said this law should be done for people, as he said, expelled, expelled from the RS, and here, of course, alluds to Bosniaks who don't live in the RS today, and no one forbids them to come back if they want to come back. And by the way, Mr. Kadrić, until recently, you know that as well as I do, there were recently reasons why our diaspora will not return to BiH economically, socially and financially. And we know very well that for these reasons, people who have managed well abroad have even paid where they should have given up BiH citizenship in order to obtain citizenship under certain conditions from countries where they are currently living and where their families work. But be assured, even if you don't believe me, but it will convince you of the reality that is happening in BiH and reality, that from a few days ago and a few months ago they are no longer responsible, now this is a secondary economic and financial situation in BiH, the primary reason why they will not return is the security situation in BiH. And don't be in the illusion that those who saw it a few days ago that the Bošnjak began to suffer from Bošnjak in Bugojn, Zenica and other BiH cities, that it would certainly further distance them from returning to BiH. Do not be mistaken that you will draw them to this law that you want to run for office and who you represent as you represent, and by the way you only think of what you mean. You are not interested in those who have been expelled from the Federation of BiH, so Srbin and Hrvat who no longer live in this country today because they were driven away. They don't interest you. In this law, you're interested in what's of interest to you... and maybe if you hadn't said it all and you hadn't made it out, maybe this law would have passed, but now it's obvious and unequivocal that the law is truly politically colored. Thank you.
ParlaMint-BA_2010-06-30-0.u35853	Replica, distinguished representative Mirko Okolić.
ParlaMint-BA_2010-06-30-0.u35854	Thank you, Mr. Chairman. The replica told everyone who had mostly talked about this law in such a way as to potentiate refugees and displaced persons or persons, however you will, during the past war, while in the light of this law, and the intention of this law should probably have been quite different if it were true in this explanation as it is written. It says -- the trend of eviction from BiH continues, continues to take place. We are moving on – and mostly young and educated persons are moving out who confirm the published UNDP data, etc. Is this related to what has been discussed here or has to do with something that should have been agreed on at the level of all ruling parties that can have a critical mass to adopt such a law and that such a law is actually passed in order to prevent our young people from going abroad, and not in this way leading to the story of emigration of young people, but at the same time, by transferring this story to people who have escaped in the past war and exile, etc., as if they were expelled only from the RS, and not from the Federation of BiH, etc., etc. 37 I think this law is to the harm of... being abused... From him, if the Council of Ministers of BiH seriously meant it, those who have a critical mass to adopt this, to turn out to be a good law with a purpose, not to prevent any repression or any other method other than to create conditions for this population being talked about, not to go from BiH. It's the only way this population can be held, not anything else. And until we talk like this, by accusing each other, there's nothing of this law. However, it does not seem to me that it is the aim of the promoter, or of some of the political options of the Federation of BiH, in general, to implement the law, but rather to be another line on one law that was not supported by MPs from the RS. So I suggest, perhaps I should have suggested earlier, that we do a little bit of the same procedure as 15-20 laws that we will know that you of the Federation of BiH will not support, that we then strike lines, or that we better work together laws such as the Law on the List which is important to the liberalisation of the visa regime or to the entry into the EU or something like this casual. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-BA_2010-06-30-0.u35855	Replica, a respected representative of Nermina Zaimović Uzunović.
ParlaMint-BA_2010-06-30-0.u35856	The Honorable Chairman. I really had no intention of discussing this, or of giving anyone a replica, and now I want to give everyone a replica of what they said. In fact, from something that's good, which is positive, and I think it could have been through some amendment phase and a mandatory public debate, that we have a law that needs everyone here, both entities and peoples, because everywhere there are, every people in BiH has an emigration and all of us in families have... I feel it privately like something I personally need in my family. And I volunteered to rephrase to all those who want to make this law out of them now, regardless of whether it was intended by the applicants or those who have explained that they are making it a political law, I want us here to make a law that needs BiH, which will be an integral factor, which will bind our emigrants, because it's obvious that our emigrants better agree where emigration is rather than when we discuss it. And that's why I'd suggest that we support this law, fix it through the amendment phase as much as possible, because it really does, and don't make a story out of it that it's just the ones that left in the war. They're the ones who left before the war. And especially what threatens BiH, which is the departure of our minds. I think that's what we need to point at, and for that, if for nothing else, this law is passed. Thank you.
ParlaMint-BA_2010-06-30-0.u35857	Next replica, distinguished representative Slavko Jovičić.
ParlaMint-BA_2010-06-30-0.u35858	Thank you, Mr. Chairman. 38 Well, when it comes to the proposal of this law, the first question should be asked – who is the diaspora? We are witnessing the fact that there is no, as my colleague Zaimović said, and this is, in my opinion, a false allegation or, behold, a replica and a colleague – where did you hear any country, any city that gives three nations, religious confesions, so whatever you want to define, anything that they did on a joint project? Do they have one? Do they even have a unique organization in a city made up of Bošnjak, Srbin and Hrvat? They don't. To be honest, the proposal of this law was immediately seen, it puts the ethnic component first, and if you want to be honest, I can't get support, and we're aware of the facts, and we saw it, and it happens, that, let's say, one of the strongest emigrant organizations are Bošnjak, who are represented on the Bosniak site.net, who, rightly, produced at least 5 resolutions from the American Congress, from the Council of Europe, from actions in Australia, in London, etc., but it's an organization that represents only one people. There is not a single Srbin in the organisation. So we witnessed their visit here in Sarajevo. So if there were Srbin and Hrvat there, it would be logical for representatives from the BiH Parliament, from the BiH Council of Ministers, from the order of the Serb or Croatian people, not only to be welcomed by Minister Halilović, and I don't know who they were talking to. So it is quite clear that there is no unique organization in the world that would make together these three peoples, who would tie them there on any project (?). It is clear that there are interests of people who act through their organizations in the world and who lobby only for the interests of their people, so I am a witness, as you are, countless statements that go, and that I do not return the old generally known story, most of them are the demands for the abolition of the RS. They won't talk. Like, the only condition is that they will return if the RS is abolished. It's about classic blackmails, so here, I'm saying threats, and also pressures on BiH institutions. And it is logical that such a law cannot be supported by representatives of the Serbian people, so, here, to be more specific, MPs from the SNSD. So to enter, I'd say, in an adventure with a proposal of these laws is not necessary in this time. And I always plead, let's achieve a consensus within this country based on three national collectiveities presented here in the BiH Parliament in such a way and that, if we do so, it is easy for us to take the picture into the world. But to receive a picture from the world that is directed against the Serb people, the RS, by proposing such a law, of course it is counterproductive and will not get support.
ParlaMint-BA_2010-06-30-0.u35859	The next replica, distinguished representative Adem Huskić.
ParlaMint-BA_2010-06-30-0.u35860	Thank you, Mr. Chairman. I really didn't mean to answer for a discussion or a replica, but I have to say this. This is, in my assessment, a classic replacement of thesis by colleagues who are against this law. I, now I've read the law again since it's short, I don't see anything political in it, I really don't see it. It's possible someone else can see it. But the fact that our diaspora, unfortunately, is divided, is unfortunately divided. And now look at the next situation, I think this is the essence of the whole story and I really think so. If someone in that way, in any way, I won't say "insult," if anyone disagrees, I respect that it can be disagreed. But, look, our neighbouring countries have regulated this area legally, so, in fact, the Hrvat who are the diaspora from BiH are tied to the Croatian state, Srbin for Serbia, Bošnjak do not have the opportunity to bind institutionally. And I think it is incorrect to really prevent Bošnjak from having a relationship with BiH. And, of course, here 39 doesn't say anywhere that it applies to Bosniaks, but to everything. And as long as we don't have this law, by law it's perfectly normal that this diaspora will continue to be divided and even more divided and that what counterpart Jovičić said will happen. And that, in my opinion, indeed, in order to avoid this, that diaspora, of course, would have a connection with the country of origin of BiH for all people, regardless of their nation, religion, when they left, etc., if they belong to that category of diaspora, emigration, etc., I think we should make them a legal framework and we should regulate the ways and technologies that we will work with them. So, when we don't have an institutional framework, then there's an opportunity for various Internet portals, for various NGOs, for various associations that work the way they do. But what we're going to do is we're going to do what they do in an organized way. I think the best way to pass the law. And the whole story here that's been going on so far wasn't a story about the law or the principles of the law at all but something else entirely. I really don't see anything wrong with the principles of this law. If a person sees something bad, it is correct to say what is written in the law, not because someone in the reasoning said or wrote it either in the discussion or in the replica. So I urge all of us to really very seriously access the analysis of this law, it's in the first reading. I think it's acceptable and I think it would be welcome for everyone, everyone who wants it, I mean the diaspora, who doesn't want, who's tied to another country, it's their right, their choice, but for those who want to bind themselves to BiH, it's incorrect to take away that right. By refusing this law, we are actually doing it and sending a very bad message, primarily to Bošnjak in the diaspora, but also to Bošnjak within BiH. And I don't think this is going to contribute to any improvement in the atmosphere here or out here. If we want to fix the atmosphere here and outside, then we really need to adopt the law in our first reading, so we need to fix it with amendments eventually. And the worst thing is to reject it with an explanation that it's configured for one side that actually doesn't have any institutional connection to its home country. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-BA_2010-06-30-0.u35861	Replica, the esteemed representative Husein Nanić.
ParlaMint-BA_2010-06-30-0.u35862	I thank you, Chairman. Here, my replica and I believe these replicas so far that, unfortunately, in the past experience, will not change the views of the MPs. But here, I can't keep my mouth shut, knowing that again I can't keep these two things out here. Mrs. Marković, when she says it is evident that the issue of the return of emigrants to BiH is now primarily a security issue. Not now but for 15 years and for a long time, we have indicated that the issue of returning people to their homes is a security issue and we are looking for the safety of these people when they return to their homes. The second finding here, Mr. Jovičić, when speaking, is always very superficially, never in detail, if the elements of the law are looked at, is precisely this law that requires the creation of such a system, among other things says -- that the co-operation holders are the BiH presidency, the Parliamentary Assembly of BiH, the BiH Council of Ministers and the relevant ministries. So, we are giving these capacities to BiH institutions involving all the peoples. 40 Next, the committee to be formed has seven members and is represented by representatives of the BiH Council of Ministers, two ministries – civil affairs and human rights and refugees, representatives of the RS government, representatives of the Federation of BiH government and representatives of the Brcko District. It's enough to see that this law is trying to make a system into which all institutions and peoples and others would be involved in solving problems so that we don't exactly have what's going on, different appearances, and that this one was an attempt to make this thing as united as possible and to show that we have the capacity to bring these things in.
ParlaMint-BA_2010-06-30-0.u35863	Replica, the esteemed representative Vinko Zorić. ___________(?) [[no microphone turned on]]
ParlaMint-BA_2010-06-30-0.u35864	Well, here, as soon as you're done, I'll start. I'm replicating my colleague Adem Huskić. He found out what was real, that emigration was divided. However, I will tell you that I've been to Argentina twice and that we have, by definition of emigration from this law, a very large community of emigrants. And what have we done? We've lifted the embassy. It is not true that these emigrants who ran downstairs to Croatia, to the Croatian Embassy. The BiH ambassador was shoulder to shoulder with the Croatian ambassador at all these Croatian expatriate parties in the church, etc., I made sure of that myself. And we sent them a message – OK, we disown you, we abolish the BiH Embassy, the only one in South America. Then it is said that they need a law so that they may be united. So they have to act in accordance with the laws of the receiving country, not our law, if they're organised out there somewhere. I agree that it should be a law, but, colleague Nanić, you've well-numbered the institutions, it still doesn't ensure that all the nations in that committee or council are represented, no one guarantees. Is that in the law somewhere? I didn't read it, I read it carefully, I didn't read it. I'm saying again, the law is high, I'm not saying the law doesn't have to. Now I'm not going to rephrase to my colleague Adem about the political color of this law, no need, here.
ParlaMint-BA_2010-06-30-0.u35865	Replica, distinguished representative Slavko Jovičić.
ParlaMint-BA_2010-06-30-0.u35866	Thank you, Mr. Chairman. Well, I'm not going to qualify whether someone will evaluate my exposure to the surface or, like this, I'm going to have everyone's exposure here, I respect every colleague. But I said, let someone point out to me, here's a cultural and artistic society in any country and city that they make, let's not count, 20% of these, 30% of these, 40, but let's say if there's a cultural and artistic society of mixed character in any city and country. It doesn't exist. I'm talking about emigration, I'm not talking about Tuzla, I'm talking about outside because the law is about diaspora, it's not about Tuzla. So it's quite clear, when someone tells me or gets information, and I contact people, that there is, here's 41 art colonies, and then on the art colony, well, no, the image is the same, it doesn't matter who drew it, but that they exhibit the Bošnjak, Srbin and Hrvat together. There's nowhere to go. No single event abroad is organised together. So, what kind of law are we to pass here that will oblige some immigrant club in what state and city when they, as counterpart Zorić says, must act according to the laws of that state. They have to organize themselves like that. So, from here to pass the law, so we can't bring the law to ourselves that we respect it here, and bring the law to the emigrants, will they respect it in Chicago where there are 450 thousand Srbin, I don't know how many Bošnjak, and now they're going to organize a picnic and a game together. I was just at that time, having organized a game, fortunately, well done. She played RS, so called the club, against some team presented by Bošnjak, but their laws different and fortunately avoided a major international conflict. Because some Bošnjak has offended a Srbin, but the US law says - so that you do not violate the laws of the United States, the one that insulted the Serbian player, who won some cup, lifts, 5,000 kilometers you will be moved to another city so as not to disturb it. Can we now pass this by law, and say, "Who is in the way of the Bošnjak, the Srbin, the Hrvat in Chicago, Amsterdam, I don't know where, will be moved and settled in Travnik, Banja Luka, I don't know, the Palam and I don't know where else?" Well, we need to break things like this, we can't get the law that we're going to enforce here, and we need to commit the emigrants to how they're going to respect it, how something special is going to happen there if we say it. I said one thing that is true, there is no multiethnic organization, whatever it is called, sports club, cultural, intellectual, literary, I don't know, scientific, which unites three peoples representing BiH in any city, any country in the world. Thank you.
ParlaMint-BA_2010-06-30-0.u35867	Thank you. Replica, the esteemed representative Denis Bećirović.
ParlaMint-BA_2010-06-30-0.u35868	First of all, I'd like to say that I disagree with the particular reasons of this law. This law is a law that should be in the interest of both Bošnjak and Srbin and Hrvat and others coming from BiH and abroad. So I don't think it's very appropriate for my colleague, Huskić, who in one part talked about how the Bošnjak are the home state of BiH. I think these are harmful stories for the BiH state. The Bosnian-Herzegovina Bošnjak, Bosnian-Herzegovina Srbin, Bosnian-Herzegovina Hrvat and other citizens of the country of origin are BiH and the division of those who, by God, have some parent and those who do not have a country of origin is harmful to this country. That's my opinion. Another thing, don't make this opportunity, let's use the debate on this law to represent here a picture of how to God's people hate each other so much abroad, etc. There are nationalists both outside BiH and chauvinists, as there are in BiH. But there are so many bright, wonderful and beautiful people from all nations and nations who, normally, live in Europe, America, Australia and so on. which should not be represented in this light, as you see, they are divided, wider hatred, etc. So there are both people and non-humans, both in BiH and out of BiH and do not represent the wrong 42 images. Not only do we start from our players of different nations, etc., which represent BiH in the best possible way, to business people, students, etc., all peoples and nations.
ParlaMint-BA_2010-06-30-0.u35869	Dear Representative Azra Hadžiahmetović, replica.
ParlaMint-BA_2010-06-30-0.u35870	Thank you, Chairman. Some of the arguments for the replica were given by counterpart Denis Bećirović, but here, I wanted to, I also need to add, especially to the discussion, i.e. the intervention of my colleague Jovičić. Although there is a need to pass laws of this kind that, in any way, regardless of who is in the diaspora, would regulate matter that is subject to such a law, (is contained in this proposal or something like that). But first of all, I replicate that apostrophe of our diaspora's division outside, perhaps more in the context of the discussion that we ask ourselves – and what have we done here to make it not so? I'm telling me, everyone in BiH, from the beginning of the 1990s to today. Did we perhaps take a step closer or perhaps remove some of the barriers they shared? I'm not sure the discussion of this kind of thing that you've apostropheed today in the way that you've apostropheded the contributions to that collapse of those barriers. Although it is not an object, I mention the discussions again, but it is presented in the context of a concrete bill. I think we need to imagine ourselves a little bit and not so critically talking about the division of our people outside BiH, as if BiH and the political situation in BiH and our newer history were completely out of the picture. We must be connected and in the context of, of course, everything that... the subject that concerns our citizens living outside BiH deserves... Thank you.
ParlaMint-BA_2010-06-30-0.u35871	Chairman, Mr. Lozančić, discussion.
ParlaMint-BA_2010-06-30-0.u35872	Thank you. Ladies and gentlemen of the MPs, distinguished guests, I believe that this discussion of mine has certainly been delayed and will not change any of what has already been said, nor have already created the beliefs of most of you regarding this bill. However, given the different views expressed on this matter, and here I am the course of the debate on the proposal for this law, I would like to highlight my thinking, my point of view on this matter, no matter what the outcome today will be at the time of the vote on this law. I must say, I repeat one part of my discussion on this competent commission, when I said – that the bill is good, so well done as if the MPs hadn't written it themselves. So that's what I said, with no intention of saying they did or didn't write it. So they signed this proposal and delivered it to us in a procedure. I must say that I did not investigate 43 why the BiH Council of Ministers did not deliver, if it was standing somewhere in the drawer, why it eventually fell on the Council of Ministers, if it had ever fallen, etc. Bosnia and Herzegovina has an emigration, even if we pass a law today that requires it to be gone. So there is. This emigration was produced through a nearer or further history, mostly under unfavourable circumstances, often through coercion in various ways. In that emigration, unfortunately, too many people who, behold, can be classified in that category as BiH citizens, whether like those who have dual citizenship or as those whose origin binds them to BiH. And unfortunately, this is an indication that here are such opportunities, that we, unfortunately, are such people here, that many because of ourselves, as we are, have found some safer havens at different times. It won't stop working with emigrants if we don't pass this law, but that it can be better, more orderly, more systematic, more responsible, and everything else, it's certain that if we can regulate it legally. And I must say that I was really surprised by the debate about this law, with all apologies to all those who debated and those who were proposing this law. It seems to me that they have refrained from reason so that the law may have a better chance of passing. So there's been a little talk here today about the content of the law. He doesn't prescribe how our emigrants will organize themselves anywhere in the world, anywhere. He only prescribes forms, types of institutional co-operation BiH with our emigrants who feel our emigrants anywhere in the world. No one forces them to co-operate with BiH, but creates an obligation for BiH to co-operate with its people who are somewhere in the world, who want to co-operate with their country, nothing more. It prescribes bodies that should do so on behalf of BiH. Whether they're well-conceived or bad, the thing for a possible repair through the amendment phase, assuming, here, that the law, as I would say, is more welcome here. But here, I don't know if he's going to see the amendment phase. This is one law that does not suffer, he does not, in my opinion, have any ethnic... although some of the signatories of the law gave him the sound, which I think is absolutely wrong, he is talking about the living people who are citizens, who were citizens, who have origins in BiH, who live somewhere in the world and who, behold, would like to cooperate with just not knowing who in BiH. I wish we had abstained today from overly debated the reasoning of the law and focused on the very articles of the law. And I think that this law, as it is, can, as far as I'm concerned and will get support in the first reading, can get support in the first reading, and all those who think that, or want to fix it even more, to enrich it, here, if they want to, then they can certainly do it in the second phase, if we give the law a chance to get to that second stage. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-BA_2010-06-30-0.u35873	Azra Alajbegović.
ParlaMint-BA_2010-06-30-0.u35874	The Honorable Chairman, ladies and gentlemen. I would like to express my personal satisfaction that we have today on the agenda a Law on BiH's co-operation with emigrants and to say several of my personal impressions about our meetings with our emigrants around the world. 44 I believe that at the Commission for Human Rights, which was the committee appointed by the College for the examination of this law and the submission of reports on the draft of this law, we heard from the measuring representative of the Ministry of Human Rights that the overall emigration of BiH... 1,350,000 inhabitants, of which, will allow me to, well, give myself the luxury of making a mistake, we have over 34%, I think, highly educated exclusively young people. What does that mean for BiH? This means that, in fact, in a way,... one intellectual potential and the psychophysical potential of the population – the citizens of BiH in their significant segment lives outside. From an area where my primary profession, which is medicine, I can rightly say that many of our colleagues, or doctors of medicine who went outside, have achieved representative careers. These careers are mostly currently positioned as professors lecturers across the globe, excellent neurosurgeons, gynecologists, cardiologists, cardio surgeons, etc. Meeting colleagues from my home area, it is a neuropsychiatry, at scientific gatherings in certain countries of the world, I can say that in fact this linguistic resemblance or linguistic identity, regardless of which country of the former Juguslavija we have colleagues who come to such gatherings, there is always a certain grouping of people who speak Bosnian, Serbian and Croatian, Slovenian, Macedonian or language that are understood here. At the same time, ordinary people, so these experts show a very high desire for co-operation and great help, at the highest percentage, BiH's assistance and they need an institutional framework for such a type of assistance. Under the circumstances, our higher education health institutions do not have enough resources to send their doctors to expensive education around the world to bring new technologies and new therapeutic approaches, and most of our colleagues are positioned in projects of the World Health Organization and other EU projects, with... some of these are people who can help our young experts to go outside, learn these new diagnostic and therapeutic tests, bring it to BiH and apply it. It is a huge wealth which, in my opinion, is currently impossible to fully calculate, and I think it is very important that this cooperation is institutionally framed. On the other hand, show our emigrant interest in co-operation with them and, on the third hand, to provide that hand of support that most of our experts outside are giving us, and they don't actually have an institutional framework that would be integrated to help BiH. So I think a law like this is imperative, especially one like this, as I would say, flexible and fairly broad law. I support him at full capacity. If we look at the segment of education, then I would say that, since the Bologna Process and the reform of higher education in BiH is under way, and that the mobility of students, teachers and members of the academic community is an imperative of the Bologna Process, then in a way, all of our experts working around the university in the world will be able to open the way for our students and our teachers in the world by networking with the diaspora. I would say that, in fact, at the medical, clinical center of the University of Sarajevo, there is something called the Bosnian Medical Initiative. Every year the Days of the Bosnian-medical Initiative take place, and every two years the Congress of Bosnian-medical Initiatives and actually members of the Bosnian-medical Initiative around the world come to BiH and we have already managed to establish a kind of co-operation with such emigration. I would just like to point out one more example that I received in one of the courses from higher education in BiH, which is that, for example, one of our experts, who is a chemist, shown, in fact, the capacity left untapped in BiH (where does the opportunity come from, in full, what do I say, the possibilities he meets)?(?). One of our experts, for example, is this one of our experts before '92. In the year, our young expert had only two papers published in 45 reference... magazines. Since '92. Until '96. he was in emigration in Germany – then published 19 papers on which he became a regular professor of the Faculty of Natural-Mathematics upon his return to the country. Since '96. Until 2010, he was only able to publish one paper. This, in fact, I'm saying how much we have intellectual potential and how good our higher education institutions were, and I think this is the way to open the way for co-operation with our diaspora, to attract our diaspora. And I'd just like to say one more comment to my colleague, Jovičić, I'm, I don't really know, that is, I'm all the people I've met outside, regardless of the nationality, ethnically, constitutive, religious, religious or not know any other difference, all the people seem to be out there, I think they've been better friends, and they've been better at watching and looking for more than in BiH. Sometimes I came from outside, actually pleasantly surprised by such knowledge and sad when I sat in these benches the day after I returned. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-BA_2010-06-30-0.u35875	No more reports, closing the hearing. We're moving to agenda 12, Ad. 12. Declaration by the House on the setting of a new deadline for the submission of the Opinion of the Joint Committee on Human Rights, Rights of the Child, Youth, Immigration, Refugees, Asylum and Ethics on the Proposal for a Law on the Prohibiting Wearing of Clothing Disabling Identification – Proposer: Representatives of the SNSD Club Representatives of the SNSD Club Law delivered 09.04.2010. The Constitutional Commission delivered its opinion on the constitutional basis on 21/05/2010 and it is negative. The European Integration Directorate delivered its opinion on 29 April 2010. In 1506, the competent Joint Committee on Human Rights, the rights of the child, youth, immigration, refugees, asylum and ethics submitted a request for an extension of the time limit for the delivery of Opinion, and the College set the deadline until 29.06.2010. 29.06.2010 The Committee again submitted a request for an extension of the deadline for the delivery of Opinions. In accordance with Article 104, paragraph 3 is replaced by the following: Rules of Procedure, statements on the setting of a new deadline. The proposal of the College in the extended composition is to make it 26.07.2010. I'm opening a debate. Dear Representative Denis Bećirović.
ParlaMint-BA_2010-06-30-0.u35877	Well, I think I have a better suggestion than the college proposal. My proposal is very simple – that we all together invite the legislator of this law to withdraw this kind of provocative and inappropriate law from the procedure because this really doesn't deserve to be found in parliamentary procedure. I think it's a better proposal than this extension of these deadlines. 46
ParlaMint-BA_2010-06-30-0.u35878	Dear Representative Šefik Džaferović.
ParlaMint-BA_2010-06-30-0.u35879	In the wake of what Honorable counterpart Bećirović was talking about, just perhaps in a different way, it is my impression that this law does not serve the purpose for which the laws normally serve, but that it was made and that it was put into parliamentary procedure to manipulate, abuse,... in some cold regime. I have a question for you, as a College – if the Constitutional Commission has said there is no constitutional basis, then how is it possible to continue to conduct the procedure at all until the House is declared and how is it possible that... is it possible for the competent commission to discuss it anyway? So that's one question. And the second question – Can the competent commission now lead some investigations, obtain the opinions of the ministry, engage in the very essence unless we have said anything about principles here? I fear this has nothing to do with the abuse of what is called the legislative activity of the BiH Parliamentary Assembly and therefore, here, I am looking for answers to these questions. And I'm joining this proposal by Mr. Bećirović, I think this would be the smartest thing about this law. That's it, thank you.
ParlaMint-BA_2010-06-30-0.u35880	Dear Representative Selim Bešlagić.
ParlaMint-BA_2010-06-30-0.u35881	Dear Chairman, colleagues and colleagues. I thought this item was removed from the agenda at the last session, but here it is again. Well, since she found out, then I did my best to find out. Just 60 years ago, on September 28, 1950, at the 8th regular session of the National Assembly of BiH, a law on the ban on the wearing of war and war was passed. Under the Dayton Agreement, laws that have not been laid down are still in force today. I suggest that the motionor or go into the amendment and supplement this law, and then there's nothing to supplement because it's already being implemented, or that it's being evaluated, so we ask that our institutions respect the existing laws that apply in this country. That ended the whole procedure. I think it's correct and that I agree with you that it bothers me too when I see that the existing law that was passed in 1950 is not respected. Good morning, Kolumbo. I think that here we should ask ourselves – are we going to comply with laws that are required under the Dayton Agreement to be respected in this country until these laws are withdrawn or amended? Therefore, my proposal is that, here, the Proposer requires compliance with existing laws or that it seeks amendments and amendments to the law on this matter. 47
ParlaMint-BA_2010-06-30-0.u35882	Replica, the esteemed First Vice-President, Beriz Belkić.
ParlaMint-BA_2010-06-30-0.u35883	I fully understand the motives of both Mr. Bećirović and Mr. Džaferović, however, the addresses are proposing. So don't drag the College into this. The college has to conduct procedures. So, I'm absolutely against this law, if you're interested, but you know perfectly well that we can't avoid procedures no matter what anyone suggests. And as for Mr Bećirović, let him talk to the promoters about it.
ParlaMint-BA_2010-06-30-0.u35884	Dear Representative Ekrem Ajanović.
ParlaMint-BA_2010-06-30-0.u35885	Mr. President, ladies and gentlemen. I am absolutely against the fact that this law is removed from the agenda, that someone is praying to withdraw this law and that someone is asking for a postponement of the debate on this law first of all because this is a discriminatory law, a law that should not, nor has a constitutional basis, to come into parliamentary procedure. Now imagine a man who has the ability to dress up in a woman, throw a wig, put on a lip, put on a bra, put on a dress and go out on the street, and now you must forbid him to act like one. It would raise the entire outside of what is called the extraparliamentary organizations that exist, how certain people are persecuted and denied their rights. And now that someone wants to bring a fess, or a cheetah, or I don't know anything else, then everybody's quiet and quiet, or whatever you want. And they are making, there should be a problem with whether this law should be approved, that someone says he can be put in further procedure, that the opinion of the BiH Council of Ministers is obtained or I don't know anyone else. This is a discriminatory law, a law against the constitution, and today it needs to be declared and, of course, my suggestion is that we totally reject it.
ParlaMint-BA_2010-06-30-0.u35886	Replica, distinguished representative Slavko Jovičić.
ParlaMint-BA_2010-06-30-0.u35887	Thank you, Mr. Chairman. Well, of course there were various laws here in the procedure and... acts that had this or that intensity and of course received certain qualifications. In the light of the bill's proposal, it is only evident that the intention was to identify persons in public places, especially institutions, on the basis of what the identification predicted. So clearly visible cheekbones, eyes, beard, face, that part. This wasn't directed against Islam, this wasn't directed against the religious community, this wasn't against anyone, and that's why I refuse any such performance that 48 is about provocation, as my colleague Bećirović said. There have been other provocations here that we haven't responded to. But here's a perfectly clear procedure that no one should object to, to be damaged, or offended. The law is in the procedure, we will not withdraw it; you will plead; that is, we will all plead together; his fate will be known. After that, Niko one will take hold of their necks, nor will they put a horseshoe on their head, nor will they take off on the streets of a scarf, nor will they do anything else. What the people would say - a clean bill of long love, a finished story, but the law remains in the procedure. Let the BiH Parliament declare it and finish the story. Is he okay? It's okay. Thank you.
ParlaMint-BA_2010-06-30-0.u35888	Before I give you the replicas, I just want to remind you of the name of the agenda point. So, the competent commission is looking for a new deadline. The College has already approved once, the College can no longer set a new deadline, and only the House can be declared. We can plead to extend the deadline, I said what is the proposal of the College, which is the new deadline, we can plead not to extend, but there is no need to, I don't know, bring some other dimensions into the debate about this law, about this item of the agenda. Dear Representative Šefik Džaferović.
ParlaMint-BA_2010-06-30-0.u35889	Business intervention, the chairman, I ask, do not be angry with me, I am obliged to refer this as a question to the dom – Is it possible for the committee in charge to discuss any law that the Constitutional Commission has said is not in accordance with the Constitution or must, above all, make it clear to the House and clarify whether it is in accordance with the Constitution or not? If he can, then we'll go with this procedure and we'll tell you what we're gonna do and how we're gonna do it. If he can't, go ahead, tell us the answer to that question. This is the first time this thing's happened. And then on the committee, watch out, then on the commission, you're making maneuvers and you're looking for -- get a report from this agency, get a report from them. Look, I mean, it's not a problem at all, we need to discuss this here in the BiH Parliament and say what we have, let's say everyone, but don't hide something behind something. My impression is that this is being held in some cold, working regime that the matter might be in Parliament.
ParlaMint-BA_2010-06-30-0.u35890	Who's keeping it, tell us who's keeping it? Who's holding up?
ParlaMint-BA_2010-06-30-0.u35891	berize, Parliament, we are all Parliament.
ParlaMint-BA_2010-06-30-0.u35892	This substance is regulated in Articles 102 and 107. So, Article 102 says – after the Joint College confirms that the Joint Committee is in charge, the bill is submitted to constitutional law committees at home. After the constitutional legal commissions give their 49 opinions, it is not the opinion it is, but merely their opinions that the procedure continues before the joint committee in line with the rules of procedure at home. So no matter what his opinion is. This Regulation shall enter into force on the twentieth day following that of its publication in the Official Journal of the European Union. – when the College of the House receives the opinion of the Constitutional Commission and the competent committee on the draft law resulting from the fact that the Commission has not established compliance with the Constitution and the legal system, i.e. it has not adopted the principles of the proposed law in which the Commission is obliged to explain the reasons for its refusal, the College shall include the draft law with the opinion of the Commission in the agenda of the House session to be held, etc. And it's all in line with the Rules of Procedure. So, the College has an obligation. The second question, when the competent commission asks for an extension of the deadlines, I've already explained it, so in this case we have a matter on which only the House can state what is the deadline that we can and we want to give to the competent commission at its request, here. I hope it's clear enough. Dear Representative Bakir Izetbegović, replica.
ParlaMint-BA_2010-06-30-0.u35893	So, Jovic, what's that clear from what I.D. could be made possible? You put on your hat, put on your dark glasses, let go of your beard, you've covered everything, what's that? What is it, here, in Dr Dabić's clothes and they didn't recognize him as Karadžić? Let's define the clothes he wore so we can ban it.
ParlaMint-BA_2010-06-30-0.u35894	Dear Representative Momčilo Novaković, replica.
ParlaMint-BA_2010-06-30-0.u35895	Well, you see, Mr. Chairman, I think most colleagues discussed something that is not on the agenda today, and you should, as chairman, have warned that we are today discussing something that is a deadline, not something that is the essence of law, principle or I don't know either.
ParlaMint-BA_2010-06-30-0.u35896	If you listened carefully, I warned you, but you're free to warn.
ParlaMint-BA_2010-06-30-0.u35897	The other thing, Mr. Džaferović, when we were doing these amendments to the Rules of Procedure, was one proposal (to be on the commission), if negative opinion is not going to the House, so it is said that it cannot be the commission that will prevent the law from coming to the House. So the thing was, at that time, an assessment that perhaps once the Constitutional Commission could reject a constitutional basis for a solution that was needed and good. And then, with this analogy, it's said no, no, only the Dom can stop the law. And it's not right today then to say whether he could or couldn't. At that time, by discussing it, we practically gave the right for the law to come to the BiH Parliament and when the commission gives a negative opinion on it. And not that he can, but that he has to come to Parliament and that Parliament declares it when it is a negative opinion. 50
ParlaMint-BA_2010-06-30-0.u35898	Dear representative Milica Marković, replica.
ParlaMint-BA_2010-06-30-0.u35899	Well, here I am, Mr. Chairman, going to refer to the agenda item, so an extension is required for the commission's statement. And I, on behalf of the SNSD Club, ask to make clear whether we will extend the deadline or not, for a purely reason to honor yourself as you said yourself, that the Rules of Procedure and how it should be done in this home. And from that you will see again, however the House declares itself on this proposal of the agenda, some things are good, never by chance a waste. It is good that these colleagues who today dispute that the deadline is even extended, that you, too, are making a little statement in the entity vote. What if not, not only must MPs from the RS do so, so you will probably bring it down by entity vote today and challenge it. And the good thing is another thing that is seen from these discussions, that it is those who are full of the mouth of Europe and the EU and that there is something that needs to be done in this country to get the candidate status of the EU as soon as possible... You know well in countries where laws like this exist, laws like this were passed a month ago... the city of Barcelona itself made provisions and decisions that had just been regulated by what is required of this law. [[You can't hear anything.]] And when, so wait a minute, Mr. Bešlagić, I listened to you, I didn't interrupt you while you were speaking, and you were just saying that those laws that weren't abolished by the Dayton Peace Agreement from the SFRY are still in force, they can only be changed. Well, it was in force and the law of the SFRY, and today it is in force for the former Yugoslavia to ban the activities of these fascist and non-fascist organizations, so your club ran it again and asked this parliament to declare the law. And we're not disputing it, you're looking, we're pleading, we're down, and we're almost done talking. So we're asking, so Dom to come clean about this. However it is declared, it is still saying something that we need, and the public, I believe, the wider BiH needs both this kind of information and indicators from this state home.
ParlaMint-BA_2010-06-30-0.u35900	Thank you. The House will certainly be made clear about this, and as it will be made known, it remains for you to be represented. Replica, the esteemed representative Bakir Izetbegović.
ParlaMint-BA_2010-06-30-0.u35901	As my colleague Marković refers to the standards of Europe, here, I remind her that last Wednesday, seven days ago, she attended the session there, adopted this document – islamizam and Islamophobia in Europe, where it is said that women cannot be banned from this right, that it is incurring human rights. So, you came here now, three days ago, from the Council of Europe, where you adopted this document in which it is just called not to ban women, that it is their human right. 51
ParlaMint-BA_2010-06-30-0.u35902	Replica, the esteemed representative Denis Bećirović.
ParlaMint-BA_2010-06-30-0.u35903	First, it should be said that there is no such law in a vast part of Europe. Secondly, it should be said that where procedures are possible and initiated for something similar, it should be made clear in this House who were the proposings, and they were mostly right-wing parties and those extreme right-wing parties. As these SNSDs find themselves in the same line with these extreme right-wing parties, that's the theme for themselves. However, an integral part of the BiH Constitution is the European Convention on Human Rights and Freedoms. So it's part of our BiH Constitution, and we have sworn to honor the BiH Constitution. It is evident that there are people in the BiH Parliament who do not even know the Constitution, and especially not European conventions. And now we should ask for a break, so they can finely copy the European Convention on Human Rights, Article 9, which specifically speaks of freedom of thought, conscience, religion, and then continue the debate, so that we can see whether, in accordance with this Convention, we can talk in this way.
ParlaMint-BA_2010-06-30-0.u35904	Dear Representative Vinko Zorić, replica.
ParlaMint-BA_2010-06-30-0.u35905	Here, I am amazed by the rhetoric of my colleague Bećirović. Either he will propose a resolution to ban the right parties or perhaps a minor resolution to ban them from proposing laws. What a rhetoric this is, you know who suggested it. Everyone in each Parliament has the right to propose laws. Don't use that rhetoric when... why is the left better than the right? I, for example, belong to the center. You're left-handed, someone's right-handed. It's a spectrum. _________(?) [[no microphone turned on]] It's his fault he's left-handed. But I don't think this rhetoric should be used when it's said -- that's where those guys who are, there's a majority of parliament's passed one such law. It doesn't matter who suggested it. If I agree, Denis Bećirović, Remzija Kadrić or Slavko Jovičić with the law, that is another thing. But it is not for the rhetoric to be told – what kind of law it is, it is clear who suggested it. I, for one, don't know in France who proposed that law, and I don't care, I just know it was passed.
ParlaMint-BA_2010-06-30-0.u35907	Dear Representative Slavko Jovičić, replica. 52
ParlaMint-BA_2010-06-30-0.u35908	Thank you, Mr. Chairman. I would like perhaps for the first time in Parliament, here, at the end of the term, to refuse, with the greatest indignity, this attack of the insinuation of the distinguished colleague Bećirović when he says, and that even leaves a question about where SNSD came from in the far right organizations in this way. So, fellow Bećirović, I personally have an excellent opinion about you, about your party I have never said anything ugly about anyone else, but that you take for granted that a political party that has a completely legitimate right to propose a law here, liked him or not, and was also anti-constitutional, so be like this, but that you take it as an even worse question, which is even worse surprise, so I would rather accept that you said – here, they are right-wing, extreme as you said. But he says “where they came from. ” So that's wrong first, so I'll tell you offensively, so it's meant to do political harm to a political stranger that you don't have to love, none of you ask for it, there's no love here. Politics is all about interest. But I'm asking you as a colleague who never said anything wrong with your account, at the expense of your political party, at the expense of anyone and any of your colleagues, where do you get the right to tell you where SNSD came from in extreme right-wing organizations, if it has a completely legitimate right to propose one law? We didn't say someone had to adopt him. We didn't say how he'd get an epilogue at the end. We don't ask at all what his destiny will be. But if you're taking away our right to propose in this House legal projects and then you call the party from which it comes extremely right-wing, do you know which are the extreme right-wing parties? You know what? There is no such thing, at least for me, as far as I know in BiH, that would tear down the country's constitutional ancestor. Right-handed people aren't welcome anywhere the way you see them. But do you see that now the right-wings are taking over many countries in Europe? Here you go, gentlemen, not to criticize Brussels where these bikes can leave the EU and say, "Don't let Belgium fall apart." And there's some right-handed people out there. But if I didn't go there, I would not blame you, Mr. Bećirović, as a man I respect this time, but you really didn't perform correctly if you placed SNSD in an extreme right-wing organization. It's not acceptable for me first, it's not correct on your part, and I'm not courting you here. And I'm not going to say anything at your address ugly or anything, but you really don't have the right to call it one of the biggest political parties here a partner in power. And because you don't like it, it's some other stuff and try to change it somewhere, but it's really not right to call it SNSD.
ParlaMint-BA_2010-06-30-0.u35909	Next is Honorable Representative Mirko Okolić.
ParlaMint-BA_2010-06-30-0.u35910	Thank you, Mr. Chairman. Here, I said earlier that it's not good when the political options from an entity propose laws that they know will not be adopted and that they will, as a result, get certain points to those cartoons, etc., that someone has broken the law. Here, look, if we want to go to the end, here, it's going to happen to you, or it's going to happen to us right now. Here, now we have a reverse situation here, right now from the entity of the Federation of BiH we dispute the proposal, we dispute validity, we dispute everything possible and try, or try to prevent 53 from happening on the agenda. I propose that the future, as I said in the last discussion, be less, and that you propose laws that are more useful now and for the period we need to liberalise the visa regime and to join the EU. These proposals won't get anywhere. Thank you.
ParlaMint-BA_2010-06-30-0.u35911	Thank you. No more reports. I'm closing the debate. VINKO
ParlaMint-BA_2010-06-30-0.u35912	/no microphone turned on/
ParlaMint-BA_2010-06-30-0.u35913	Correction of the incorrect allegations, the esteemed representative Vinko Zorić.
ParlaMint-BA_2010-06-30-0.u35914	So, counterpart Okolić said that representatives from the Federation of BiH are contesting something. I don't know about such an organization of MPs and I don't know if anyone on my behalf has performed. I have not given him any authority to support or not to support this law.
ParlaMint-BA_2010-06-30-0.u35915	Dear Representative Drago Kalabić.
ParlaMint-BA_2010-06-30-0.u35916	The Honorable Chairman. Because of some other obligations, but, behold, I have heard some discussions that various nonsense has been said about this law and some who have intervened in the debate contrary to the motives of the SNSD when it comes to this law. We've explained it on committees, and it's probably been said a few times here. It's interesting how some flirt with some ideas and then try to give us a lecture here, and prove that they're close to those circles. I'm primarily thinking about the SDP that's probably trying to copy that one of our prescriptions into the upcoming elections, so I see you got involved in that debate or about the unnecessaryness of the law. I would remind you that last time there was a story here about the BiH Security Report where it was made clear that there was no terrorism and no terrorist activities, no terrorist organisations. It's completely clear. Some MPs discussed and said that they were pleased to have it written and that it stood. And now you look at the situation we have. So, those who think there's nothing to do in that field. We have official views in the BiH Parliament that everything is OK, that everything is standing and that nothing should be touched, and then we have after that day, a few days, the blackest denial of the situation. Again, the question is raised – don't ask anything, don't ask anything, everything is good from a security point of view, don't let anyone ask the question and ask why and how it happened. Our motive was here exclusively from a security point of view. The fact that some others want to translate it, 54 even past some laws in Western Europe that specifically went to that question and opened that question... I don't mind opening that question, but we didn't have that intention. We asked the question practically on boards and asked that security experts make a statement on this. If they say we don't need to talk about this, we're pulling the law right now. So we're pulling the law right now. If they say that in front of the institutions where there are dozens of security cameras, that each of us can put on a phantom, a mask and get in there, they can take those cameras off. What are they for? Security cameras have discovered three, four of the most terrible crimes in the region over the past year, because some of them are commercial... some have been on fire and have managed to identify some of the faces that, if they were wearing anything else, these cameras, then they need to be shut down. And that was our motive. And I don't know how some people's right to turn it on to something else. So there was no talk of interference at all, God Bog, in any religious customs, and I don't know what, what people should wear in special places, in public places, only in part of public places, so. Only on one piece, then. _________(?) [[no microphone turned on]] No, I don't. I'm talking about public places where security structures will tell which public places are extremely important and important so that they can do their job and how they suggest that it be arranged. So, please, I'm asking you, here, how are you gonna do when I try to get a phantom into this parliament? With a guy on his head. What are people gonna do down at the entrance? Will they let me go? If, please, if I won't be legitimateized... How are they going to legitimize me? How does he know who I am, what I am? How? So I'm asking you? But the President of France, some who called, clearly said some things, don't say that he's, I don't know, a right-handed man or I don't know what, president of one of the cradles of democratic civilization. So, you can, so you laughed like that a few days ago when it was before the Security Service report, you laughed just like that. You were talking the same way, looking forward to it, so we had what we had. You can do this and anything else. So, I repeat, we've said fine on the commission, let the experts come (and the people say), open this question, let them open a public debate and let them say – don't talk about this anymore, we don't care about this, this doesn't matter to us, we're withdrawing the law at the same time. God Bog it has anything to do with religious customs, needs, and I don't know about anything else. But from a security point of view, if you want what the whole of Europe see and what it's trying to deal with, in a way, just so we don't face it, it's not a problem. It's not a problem. We'll end every debate. What do you want us to do now and the story of terrorism, make us attribute it, I don't know, to any people? It's just a matter of work. Well, then it would be a defense mechanism if we were trying it like... but we have to deal with it. And we'll face it. It's not a problem for us to be silent. We're not going to deny Bugojno by silence. We can shut up, here, it's not a problem, but if it didn't happen, or it wouldn't happen any further. So, what carpet in BiH is so big that we can push these things under that carpet, which is it? He's gone. If you have it, say, we'll say all this and, I don't know, what Okolić was saying, don't suggest. What are you not suggesting? So tell me, you find that carpet that we're gonna push these things under. We said to open this question, without any prejudice as to how this will end, what will the final solutions look like, what will it look like in the end? But what someone is afraid to say is, let's see. And I repeat again, nothing to do with faith, 55 with religious customs, with the rights of believers, but only with the views of security structures that, what is controversial, come and say – people, what you have suggested, we are not interested in, this has nothing to do with it, and here, I am telling you, at the moment we are withdrawing the law. What's controversial is that... what, here are all the experts, here someone's going to give a lecture to finish up here and say, "No way, this can't be talked about." Here, tell that, you can't talk. We don't have the majority for this law. Thank you.
ParlaMint-BA_2010-06-30-0.u35918	Thank you. I just want to remind you that we're not discussing the law today, we're discussing a possible new deadline. Replica, the esteemed representative of Remzija Kadrić.
ParlaMint-BA_2010-06-30-0.u35919	I thank you, Chairman. I'll do it for a while. I really didn't hear enough at the beginning when Reverend Kalabić said, when he talked about all sorts of nonsense, I didn't hear if he said he heard, he heard that there was a lot of nonsense here in the law or about the law. I haven't heard that enough, so I'd like her to tell me. If he was talking about all sorts of stupid things in the law, then it was entirely justified by his remark. So, by this law, for these reasons, many people who have said that, when it comes to these deadlines, of course, we should, according to the Rules of Procedure, respect this requirement to extend the deadline and discuss this law. But it's really very difficult, almost impossible, in the amendment phase of this thing that's listed in this bill's proposal to fix, if there's any acceptance of this law. So, you're supposed to be here, if you're talking about a security aspect, so make sure you don't show up what Bakir Izetbegović said, many as one of those main ones who've been hiding under various names and in a deformed face, and then it didn't bother that they... that many others later appear as such. Therefore, it is also necessary to include those persons who have been hiding under different names, hiding for years, and it was no problem, now it's some security... In order to avoid all this, it is really very difficult to accept such a law as such, and for those reasons that they said that this should be terminated and perhaps cut those deadlines in a sense that we immediately declare the proposal for this law. But really, this is a matter of human rights, and therefore we don't need... to tend to something else entirely.
ParlaMint-BA_2010-06-30-0.u35920	Replica, a respected representative of Azra Hadžiahmetović.
ParlaMint-BA_2010-06-30-0.u35921	Thank you, Chairman. I first apologize to you that my intervention will not be a replica and that will also contribute to the deviation from the agenda content. I'll be very brief. Let me just express my satisfaction that although I thought quite differently, here I heard just now that one of the 56 top priorities of the club, or the legislator of this law, is focused on security issues in BiH. I personally do not think that the key issue of security is the wearing of burka and nibbe, etc., so I expect that the SNSD, or the legislator of this bill, will withdraw this proposal and refer to the parliamentary procedure of the Security Act, or security, etc., the state law that will really contribute to strengthening security in BiH. I really thought that your intentions were different, but, behold, after counterpart Kalabić came here at the end of our discussion and apostrophe on several occasions a matter of security, I expect that indeed the promoter in the coming period, as soon as possible, will propose a security law in BiH. Thank you.
ParlaMint-BA_2010-06-30-0.u35922	Replica, the esteemed representative Ekrem Ajanović.
ParlaMint-BA_2010-06-30-0.u35923	Oh, I'll replicate "drag Kalabić." I know that he's been a cop for a long time, that he was chief of police and police department out there, etc., and I also know that he's a lawyer, and I know that too. But to set the law in this way, it's to me, it's neither legal nor security. First, in this country no one can get a ID to take a picture with (the furnace), it has to be discovered. It has to be discovered to get a ID, to get a passport, to take a picture. And so, I'm wearing a stove, and I have a ID, a picture, and now the cops come to me and they say, "Please, I want to legitimize you." Normally, no one forbids him to take off that stove and see who's under the roast. Therefore, it has nothing to do with security. And if you want me to tell you, as a doctor, I've been through it, I won't say hundreds, but at least dozens of women who wore those clothes. Every woman, because a normal doctor won't examine someone if they don't take off their laundry, if... how they're going to examine it, every woman has taken off the stove. Therefore, it has nothing to do with security or this law, it's simply a provocative law. And I personally think it's a law against human rights and the basic thing is, I agree absolutely with... we need to make a statement, whether he will pass or not, that's the thing at home. When, after all, we call it one way or another. And neither the stove, nor the Ferreja, nor the clothes, especially this is not related to Islam, so that we clear ourselves, it's an Arabic custom, pre-Islamic, everyone knows that. Because otherwise, if it was an Islamic custom on Chaba, there wouldn't be a naked face, but it's something that a man wants to do, that I don't explain any further. There are people who are born like a man, and they want to be a woman and he dresses like a woman.
ParlaMint-BA_2010-06-30-0.u35924	Replica, distinguished representative Drago Kalabić.
ParlaMint-BA_2010-06-30-0.u35925	Here, dear colleague Ajanović finally improved slightly, although I expected you to be the promoter of this law. I was expecting, here, you know that I worked, I was, but not in any of the boss's places, so I understand some of this, but I was expecting, since you spent your entire working life as Tito's MP of the communist state in all the structures and 57 you often talked about, proud of how you did it, you know that the system in which you were an MP had such a law. I didn't hear you ever stood up to him. So that's the kind of law that just went to what some others say. In the '50s, the former state passed such a law that... _________(?) The '60s. HONEY In the '50s, if by our rules, the question is, is this law still in use, we never put it out of force, I never heard of you ever confronting it as a violation of human rights, that it is, I don't know, I don't know. You're supposed to keep this quiet right now. You've passed that law. Your colleagues then passed such a law. The second thing, I ask you, Mr. Ajanović that, since you respect the system of legitimacy of that old cop, the street cop, come here der here, get your papers out of your pocket so I can see who you are, what you are, then you shouldn't be talking about human rights. Well, I mean, if five times you were legitimateized here in the square to raise all Parliament on your feet, is that endangering your rights to legitize you every 100 meters. But here, and to disagree, I ask you how security cameras are going to legitimize a man? What do aids and technical achievements do today if we do not allow them to be in their position? What are you going to do, introduce a rule that I keep a personal card in front of every camera so that he zooms in so I can get in. I would remind you, there is no institution in the world today that doesn't have a security camera. I would remind you today that no airport is provided only by the people, but is provided with all possible technical assistance. And when I told you about it, you persistently, even though you said it had nothing to do with customs, I keep talking about the security aspect, I ask, in a way, the question to myself. And I don't understand why you don't let people, we've always had a public debate, we've had people from the profession, we've invited them, I don't understand why you don't let people say a letter about these people. I don't understand. What kind of time is it that you're just not letting people discuss this with me right now? (Even if we were wrong, even if we were in any way, let someone who understands this better than we do, in the midst of all these stories). Because the same thing was, what are we going to charge now with people who have, who drive explosives in cars, that it's their human right to move freely. Don't, which right, to suspect, to stop him, to ask him. Is his human right to drive where he wants to go? Well, please. So, is it necessary for me to remind someone that human rights can reach an extent when they threaten other people's rights? My safety has no right to endanger anyone. And that's where all the rights of others stop, to that extent, no matter what she is.
ParlaMint-BA_2010-06-30-0.u35927	Time. HONEY
ParlaMint-BA_2010-06-30-0.u35928	But who took over, I end up, on myself as an expert here and doesn't allow the ministry to at least think, that people say this is stupid, that this isn't right, come on, stop 58 here because you know that people will support it from a security aspect, not getting into any aspect because we don't allow this story at all about faith, about it, I really don't think of it, we're talking about institutions here, we're talking about security, we're not talking about religious customs.
ParlaMint-BA_2010-06-30-0.u35929	Thank you. Now I'm taking a break to, according to an announcement, so 13:45 is... _________(?) NO ONE [[no microphone turned on]]
ParlaMint-BA_2010-06-30-0.u35930	...I can't predict, as far as I'm concerned, this debate should have been over long ago, but I can't, I'm not psychic that I predict how much longer you'll hear from me later, so... Break till 3:00. [[PAUZA]]
ParlaMint-BA_2010-06-30-0.u35931	Ladies and gentlemen of the Parliament, let's get back to work. Please take your seats. We're going to pick up where we left off. Replica, a respected representative of Ekrem Ajanović without a limit of time.
ParlaMint-BA_2010-06-30-0.u35932	Mr. President, I'm still going to replicate, although I've been thinking whether or not I will, but here I am, not to be mean and not to be misunderstandings. I'm sorry there's no "Drago Kalabić" here to whom, in fact, I need to replicate. I, after this discussion he's been giving me, feel like he's finished the Akšam Shule because I see he can't add. When the Law on the Prohibition of Ferrege and Wearing was passed... I was 10 years old, although I am the oldest Parliamentarian in this House, and I don't believe that anyone at 10 can be an MP and that can affect this or that decision. When, thank Bog, I grew up and was able to influence... certain decisions, I am proud to be in the parliament of that state in 1974, because we passed a law, a new constitution that allowed me to plead as I wanted and how I felt, and not how his people made me feel that I needed to plead. And third thing, when I was in '91. The year fulfilled his desire to break up Yugoslavia, I'm not sorry, it was my wish, it might not be good, but it was my wish, so it came true. I have one more wish, that this country becomes a citizen, and if Bog gives me a long life to fulfill, that third wish. And now, as far as the experts are concerned, it would have been better if he had asked a question because I heard on TV two ministers saying they knew there was going to be a terrorist attack three months ago, why not fight to have them shut down or tell them who banned them from stopping that terrorist 59 attack? And terrorism binds to the fair and the mirage, which means that it offends many Muslims and Muslims who have never thought in their lives they would be terrorists or would want to be terrorists.
ParlaMint-BA_2010-06-30-0.u35933	I'd like to thank the imported representative. I'm out, there's, uh, a respected second vice president, a replica.
ParlaMint-BA_2010-06-30-0.u35934	It's not a replica. Everyone simply has the right to their own opinion, their own desires and their political efforts to implement them in action, so it's not a replica, it's something about a subject that obviously came out of the agenda. We're only talking about the deadline for the extension of the report. But as we often use our wish here in the BiH Parliament to finish the session as soon as possible, let me just say a few words about this agenda point, not wanting to challenge anyone in replication. Namely, the fact is that the Law on the Prohibitation of Borrowing and Feredge, the former Republic of BiH, passed in 1950, and the question is to all those who are calling for the continuity of BiH – will, together with the Law on Holidays, which they consider to have continuity also apply to the Law on the Prohibitation of Borrowing and Feredge? If we are talking about responsible policy and if we are talking about insistence on attitudes, we need to answer whether it can apply in a different way to the laws that come from the former BiH. Also, for those who say that their policy is the continuity of the policy of the previous Yugoslavia, i.e., the Communist Follower, who, among other things, was the main bearer of all political activities, but also the adoption of these laws, should clearly say whether or not they continued the continuity of the policy from the former country. Then some things will be a little clearer and we will probably come up with a common position that each MP has the right to submit legal projects, often inventing the intentions of adopting such projects and that they are accused of not even having the right to do their job, not having the right to propose and to do their job in accordance with the Rules of Procedure and the Law. So the question must be answered, that the legal projects that have been adopted in Europe, and in this sense, is that also a violation of human rights and whether the Court and the Convention on the Protection of Human Rights prevents such laws from being passed, for all those who put Europe under our noses every day and talk about some European standards. Is that a European standard, too? And finally, we can't close our eyes to what's happening to us directly, or back a few days, and in light of what they called security structures in BiH, increased threats from terrorist actions, not talking about a segment of terrorist action and who is a terrorist, and who isn't, by not mixing any faith or nation in this matter, whether or whether this law could contribute to reducing this threat or not? Let's talk to the argument and ask the experts what they think. If someone is against what I have stated, then let them make clear and loud arguments as to why they are against it. But if you don't mind, let's listen to the experts, let's see what Europe is doing and let's put some consistency into our views. 60
ParlaMint-BA_2010-06-30-0.u35935	I don't have any more logs. I'm closing the debate. We're going to the 13th agenda, Ad. 13. Report by the College Committee on the Effort of Consent to the Proposal for a Law on Amendments and Supplements to the Law on the conduct of a judicial examination in BiH (second reading) You got the report. The college didn't achieve consent. Today we decide in the second round on the bill's proposal in the second reading. We're going to the 14th item of the agenda, Ad. 14. Report by the College Committee on the Effort of Consent on the Proposal for a Law on Amendments and Supplements to the Penal Code of Bosnia and Herzegovina – Proposers: Representatives of the SDP Club (second reading)
ParlaMint-BA_2010-06-30-0.u35946	/no microphone turned on/
ParlaMint-BA_2010-06-30-0.u35947	Just sign in, I'm looking at the board here in front of me, that's why. Okay, okay, so you'll get the word just saying this so there's no oversight.
ParlaMint-BA_2010-06-30-0.u35948	The resolution is proposed, a declaration or resolution, in one part is a declaration, in another resolution, I would ask the motioner of this legal act to give us an explanation of 64 of this. Perhaps his opening argument removes certain dilemmas, so that all others who intend to discuss it eventually will perhaps discuss less at the very least than they planned. There.
ParlaMint-BA_2010-06-30-0.u35949	Here's the caller. The word has a distinguished representative Husein Nanić.
ParlaMint-BA_2010-06-30-0.u35950	I thank you, Chairman. Here, since the need to say something has been expressed. So you have before you a resolution, with this name, on the conviction of mass violations of the human rights of the civilian population in the Cazin region of 1950s and crimes committed by the authorities of Yugoslavia/FNRJ. So, the basic goal of this resolution, very short introduction to make, is that after 60 years, 60 years of events related to the Casin rebellion were marked in May. It means, on the basis of documentation, that witness statements of events and the wider political and state role of the then government in respect of events in which basic principles of human rights contained in basic acts, the Constitution of BiH, the European Convention on Human Rights, the Resolution of the European Parliament on Consciousness and Totalitarianism, the two resolutions of the '96 Council of Europe. And in 2006, and they're listed here, so I don't repeat the names and the names they refer to. I think it says here clearly in this call. So, given that the misunderstandings of history, I'm going to spread a little bit of things, which are also related to these mentioned resolutions, so, the misunderstandings of history or history, can be fueled exclusively by policies and by encouraging hatred and racism, since memories of the tragic past must remain alive, in order to honor the victims and convicts of the perpetrators of reconciliation, based on truth and mention, and with the belief that the ultimate goal of detecting and evaluating the crimes committed by the communist totalitarian reconciliation regimes that can be achieved by accepting responsibility, begging for forgiveness and fostering moral renewal. This resolution was made, with the written wording of the text, in order not to cause unnecessary controversy and interpretation and proposed in five points. (Text with this resolution itself, meaning which one is mentioned here). The resolutions state some of the documents and why they are required. The conclusion is that the state government, the party government at the time, improperly used all the mechanisms that it had unlawfully. So there have been illegal murders, convictions, banishment, mostly violations, in the broadest sense, fundamental human rights in the area of the Casin region, against the civilian population. Thousands of people have had consequences. And so here you have the documents of some of the given and specific numbers. What I would like to say here, given the question of Mr. Denis Bećirović at the beginning, when we were establishing the agenda, I have here, if anyone is interested, I did not allow it to be copied, the documents from the scientific gatherings on the Casino Rebellion and has a CD made with the original UDBE documents from the archives, from the Court of Municipal Court of Cassin '48-'50, from the archives of Yugoslavia. So, the events that were. Why am I saying this specifically? Because I'm also in the media, here's something that's been written today, that people, using the truth, have really brought up some things that don't stand. I have consulted absolutely historians, very many people and authors of various books who have done so on this subject, lawyers, experienced lawyers 65 working on human rights protection projects, and offered this text resolution, by avoiding any name in the text, which someone wants to present their name in the text or explanation itself, as some kind of special plight or more... Indeed, this concerned a wider area, meaning, and a greater number of civilian populations, while avoiding, too, any author's names, while avoiding unnecessary calls for resolutions, to some of the resolutions. For example, calling for a resolution on genocide, a resolution on racism and racial prejudice and other matters, if necessary to explain, can be clarified. And that's why this text of Resolution was done and I think it's enough and what's going to be done for the people of the Casin region, the civilian population, and the people who have had certain consequences, is going to be determined by satisfaction, is this Article 5. Resolutions and that the BiH Parliamentary Assembly hereby determines and condemns mass violations of the human rights of the civilian population in the territory of the Cazin region. That's my motive, that's my goal. I reject everything else absolutely, and I want, here, that the BiH Parliamentary Assembly is determined about it. Given that we have heard, these days there have also been a statement by politicians in BiH that certain developments that have been inappropriate in BiH to certain parts of BiH territory and citizens of these territories, and I think the least we can do for the past and for the future, to build trust among ourselves, is to do this in terms of what is going on in the Casino Rebellion, in terms of what is happening on this project itself. If there's a need, I really still have a lot of data here, there's a lot of possible reasons, but at the shortest possible I put this on and I hope this will be appreciated. With one more, here at the end, since it was Mr Bećirović's question... to clarify the situation. There have been some attempts, people think that they can work in Parliament to deliver something and say, this is what you in Parliament have to do both in this text and as it's written, you have absolutely no right to touch anything. Whoever wants to do it like that, go ahead. While I am an MP, I use the business and constitutional provisions that I need, I think this is good for both the people concerned and BiH, and I hope they will get the support of this resolution.
ParlaMint-BA_2010-06-30-0.u35951	Thank you. The next one was announced by Honorable Representative Momčilo Novaković.
ParlaMint-BA_2010-06-30-0.u35952	Thank you, Mr. Chairman. As for me and my perception of this period, of course, it's acceptable for me to condemn all the crimes in that system, but I have to say that we have an objective problem here. Namely, these crimes cannot be defined as territorial or crimes against one nation or one group, etc., it is a model of governance, meaning, a one-party system in which, according to the model of rule, anyone who was against and in any way manifested it came under the influence of that system. That is why I have in my time proposed that resolution on the condemnation of all communist totalitarian regimes, including, of course, the communist regime in the former Yugoslavia, or BiH, and I have not received support here in Parliament. I would very much support this resolution if it had not had this territorial aspect, but if it had been a resolution on the condemnation of mass violations of the human rights of the civilian population in BiH during the communist regime. She would be absolutely acceptable to me. We could say force, I won't say now by intensity, by crime number, by the number of 66 people who are covered (these situations), starting with Informbiro and beyond, as the most prominent, and beyond. There is only my reserve according to this resolution, which is limited spatially, meaning, to one space, and we are all aware that in this period of some 50-years, such phenomena or similar, smaller or greater intensity, were happening throughout the whole area, and not only BiH, but all of Yugoslavia's then. And it would be good if we in this House had the strength to condemn all these crimes with one resolution. To simply put an end to these events, so that we can move on, and in that part I think Mr. Nanić's idea is acceptable, I repeat as an idea, but the wording of the resolution in a way that he only limits himself to one narrow space is a little problematic for me. We are today deciding whether, in final terms, this resolution has passed and the amendment phase, whether what we had in the committee responsible, today we decide whether it is accepted or not, or whether this report is accepted by a committee that is negative or not. I don't know, it's a shame we didn't make a resolution that would in one comprehensive way look at all these events in that period and I'm ready to work together with any of my colleagues on such a resolution to propose it here in the BiH Parliament. I'm afraid it might be a little bit later, that maybe we should have done something earlier. But here, and now, if someone wants us to work together on a resolution that will condemn all the crimes of the communist regime and all the other totalitarian regimes in this space, I'm ready and I'm really at my disposal. Thank you.
ParlaMint-BA_2010-06-30-0.u35953	Thank you. The next is distinguished representative Denis Bećirović.
ParlaMint-BA_2010-06-30-0.u35954	It should first be noted that the Joint Committee on Human Rights has considered this resolution and that the Commission for Human Rights has not supported the text of this resolution. Secondly, when my colleague Nanić now mentioned my name, he showed this CD with documents and with this collection, for those who do not know or are less familiar with this, I also attended this scientific gathering in Zagreb, not as a politician, but as a scientific worker and a congressman of papers with a gathering that had the name Casinska Krajina in the 20th century, people, events etc., will be published now in the autumn. Namely, it was at the rally that the initiative came to pass one such resolution from Dr. Vera Kržišnik Bukić. I think it would be good for a subject like this to be consulted and with the victims, but also with the profession. When my colleague Nanić spoke about consulting books, quoting in plural, the book of the Casin rebellion, then I would ask him to say what is the second scientific book on the Casin rebellion, except for one, except for the one I spoke of. So, the book The Casin Rebellion by Dr. Vera Kržišnik Bukić. It's the only scientific work on that. Did anyone write memoirs, memories, etc., that's a different story. But the only book written on the sources is that book. And it was precisely the intention of the author himself who was the only one dealing seriously with this topic to try to propose a serious text that will be both effectively based and that will pass in the BiH Parliament, as I said today, and in the Croatian Parliament. However, according to my information, and from the talks with the 67 authors concerned, Dr. Vera Kržišnik Bukić called me from Ljubljana and said there was no consultation, and today we see in the press that neither the victims were consulted about this, etc. So there's a series of things that should be clarified, that shouldn't have been a problem, that are presently a problem. I'm not going to do much of an analysis of this text, but I think there's really a lot of things in it that are very debateable, mildly said and disputable. If in the preamble you are calling for measures to break down the heritage of the communist totalitarian regimes, and you are calling for a resolution, the resolution should first be quoted, the exact name it is. It's about the Resolution on Central and Eastern Europe, which has been consciously left out here, so it hasn't been inserted into this text. Another thing, when you talk about inheritance, there is spiritual, there is material heritage. I don't think the author has taken too much care of what this qualification means in preamble, decommissioning the legacy of the former communist regimes. kolega. Nanić, an inheritance, if you already treat this European resolution and the former Yugoslavia in Central and Eastern Europe, which it is not, is also an antifascism. Do you think this is where you're supposed to decompose that legacy? The legacy is also ZAVNOBiH, the legacy is both the statehood of BiH and the description of the population, and the railways and roads and schools and recognitions, too late, the nation etc. As I don't deny at all that there was a violation of human rights, etc. But one of these texts must also indicate what is positive and what is a negative legacy. Because then both your opponents and the souls of this country can read the resolution as they please. I am particularly interested in this presentation of counterpart Novaković, when he said his only problem in this resolution is this territorial principle, which is not covered by the entire BiH territory. I thought his first problem would be this point one, which is in this text, so to speak, quite acceptable. Here in this declaration or resolution it is said – events in the area of the Cazin region were not a continuation of organized structures from World Labour II, i.e. military and political forces, whose motive was the return of fascist formations, organizations, etc. I don't need to talk about Chetniks and Ustashas here first. Whether my colleague Novaković, I'm saying this because of some previous discussions where he denied the fascist character of the Chetnik movement, now he thinks this is no longer his problem, so he said it was just his territorial problem, that's another story. Furthermore, point 2 says they did not have these measures, according to legal basis in Yugoslav laws. For such qualifications, you must read FNRJ Penal Code. True, he has hundreds of members, the basic law on violations, etc., and then you will be able to tell if he has any legal basis or not in those laws. It's a completely different story whether these laws were okay, democratic, etc., but if you're saying there's no legal basis, you have to prove it. Otherwise, you can't say that. So at point 3, I'm just saying some of the things, just to illustrate how missing this text is. It says - it was purely economic. The question is, we have not yet opened the sources in Moscow, what was opened by the author from Croatia, Tvrtko Jakovina, in Washington, etc., says that there was everything and everything, many things that were thought to have just erupted in '48. And '50. The Amerikanac seem to have predicted them in '46. and '47, etc. So you can talk about it from the point of view of the profession. A special story when you go this far is... you can't go past the historical context at the time to talk about these things. When this happened, at that moment 110 border guards were already killed at the border towards Hungary. The Soviet divisions were both in Romania and Hungary, 68 were expected to escalate. The military industry is being transferred to BiH. There's been this famous collection of villages, etc., which was certainly a mistake and I'm not going to talk about it. Partisan decrees are being formed in '49. Because an invasion is expected, etc., etc. It's the context of that time. Now the particular question, therefore, is, on the one hand, that neither the metric people who have dealt with this issue agree with this text of resolution, the victims disagree, and that is their opinion. And now I want to add something else. Is there any way to discuss such serious matters in any way? Why would it be condemned in this House without condemning, say, a crime in the Kingdom of Serbs, Hrvat and Slovenians in 1924 where 400 people were slaughtered in the villages of Shahovici and Pavino for one night? Why not condemn who killed Stjepan and Antun Radić in the Kingdom, in the Kingdom Hall? Why not condemn BiH's division into banovina, the Cvetkovic-Macek Agreement, the division of BiH in '41, the 100,000 victims of Chetnic crimes, hundreds of thousands of killed in Jasenovac and other camps? It's all crimes. Why don't we condemn the kladanjski and the Prescan uprising? Who knows what it is here? And that was 1949. It wasn't written about it, was it, as if it didn't exist. Here are some sources that talk about it, so let's see what it is. Why don't we condemn some terrorist action from '45. By '52, not to mention who did them all and during what period? Well, you know there's no Srebrenica here, even though the European Parliament adopted it. Is that supposed to be approached this partial? I don't think it's right, it's not done by any serious state. I think we can do more damage than good. They say other people, when engineers make mistakes, the bridge falls in one day. When doctors make a mistake, a patient dies in a year. When historians make a mistake, then hundreds of thousands of victims fall in 50 years, not so fast. So here I'm saying, so this is really an inadequate text, it's inadequate and from the point of view of the profession, it's inadequate, as we can see, for the victims as well. It would be good, best, and past the vote to pull it. A colleague, Nanić, has made a certain effort, might have been better off doing it the way it was originally imagined on a broad team, however. But it would be good if this text were withdrawn, if we didn't say anything about this at all. If we make a statement, the SDP Club will be against this text, and it is ultimately up to the Proposer to decide whether or not the positions of the profession and the victims will go to the end with a proposal to declare this.
ParlaMint-BA_2010-06-30-0.u35955	Thank you. Replica, the esteemed second vice president, Dr. Milorad Živković.
ParlaMint-BA_2010-06-30-0.u35956	Thank you, Chairman. It's not a replica, because I'd have to replicate for the next 10 minutes. Simply, here, in the end, only that the incorrect name is this regarding historians and doctors and comparisons. I think you overestimated the role of historians. I wanted to say that the fact that individuals, groups, even entire parties have ideologically defined themselves compared to past times. And that there are even from my party people who think that the system in some segments was sinless and will defend it to the last member of that practically and that it is, of course, difficult to discuss with such people. I also understand that there are people who do this, but I can't understand the parties that say the heritage tradition of the communist parties, that every moment they mention the EU, the various EU resolutions, and that they don't call for an EU resolution that condemned totalitarian regimes, communist regimes. We had here at the BiH Parliament, honourable MP Novaković mentioned a resolution that is practically the same or similar resolution adopted in the European Parliament. Then we had the opportunity to express our relationship to the regime in which we lived. Then each party and individual had the opportunity to say what they thought about the regime, not entering individual cases. And then, let me say, the vote was very strange. Even less than that, I understand the proponent who, in his resolution, called for that resolution, and the same resolution was restrained. So I can't understand someone who wants us to deal with the issue of one single event right now, and before that, he's been restrained by the resolution adopted by the European Parliament, which was here, and the possibility of deviating himself from such a system in relation to what he's done. If he thinks that system was sinless, I understand that there are people like that, then they can say their position, but at the same time, don't go into individual cases now. Not to mention that we started and opened up the story of what happened before that communist regime in the Kingdom, so we don't go any further to the Ottoman Empire anymore. If that's the story, then I think we'll go far. I think it is close to Mr. Novaković's proposal that we try to make a joint resolution, but unfortunately for this Parliament, it is too late to deal with it, perhaps in some future assembly of people who have been here to be a little more consistent, and to this issue, it is comprehensive, and in an individual way.
ParlaMint-BA_2010-06-30-0.u35957	Thank you. The next replica, the first deputy chairman, Mr. Beriz Belkić.
ParlaMint-BA_2010-06-30-0.u35958	In fact, the more the question is, I'm really interested, all these people that are replicating, they're going back 50, 100 years, in different ways of explaining to us the details here, what's the point of that? Okay, we're discussing, the man proposed a resolution, we agree, we disagree, but here we are, 40% of our time, wasting some of our time on things that there's no way of reaching agreement, and if we can achieve it, what's the point of that? You know why we're here.
ParlaMint-BA_2010-06-30-0.u35959	Next replica, distinguished representative Momčilo Novaković.
ParlaMint-BA_2010-06-30-0.u35960	Well, I really don't know why my colleague Bećirović needs to comment on my every discussion, and we're not in the same internationals. Well, you see, now I'm going to explain why I'm not against this attitude one, because he's universal. If we throw this out -- the Casin landscapes and the fifties, then it's universal. And if you read it correctly, you will not be against it. Because he says that these events, meaning, and I now translate, are not events in the Cazin region, but all these events to which it can be applied, are not the result of activities or organized structures from World War II, 70 or external enemies, nor of attacks on constitutional order, nor of attack on the security of the country, nor of the return of the Chetniks, nor of the different groups that operated until '45. A year. All of these are the floscules that this regime used when it wanted to condemn any individual, any event, characterizes in a way that repressive measures should be taken. Look, colleague Bećirović, if you didn't sign this with me, I'd really be disappointed. So, all that stuff I just said, here. So if you don't think that these things that I've listed are really all about the whole story, and if you need to deny this today, then I don't have a problem with this, I've broken up with both Chetniks and internal enemies and external enemies both with Russia and with America, and I don't know who I shouldn't have crossed everything with in the '45 period. I don't know, I don't know, '90s. For years, I'm the one who broke it up, especially today. I think you need to break that up, too. And of course that's where I absolutely agree with the first chairman, to put the thing in the context of what it is. Let's not talk, no one's talking about the Kingdom, no one's talking about the Ottoman Empire, no one's talking about the Roman Empire, here, people, we're talking about the Resolution, we're talking about the condemnation of a regime at this point focused on the Casin Region. And I said we're signing all of this, but on the Casino landscape than for all the events of '45. The year until '90. And that I am ready together with Nanić, with Bećirović, to work with each such resolution. I agree with the other vice president, it's too late for that. But anytime, whether I'm a member of parliament or not, I'm ready, no matter what I'm not a historian. For the sake of putting this society in context, this does not mean that this society had no good sides. Of course, absolutely. But this is not a resolution on the emphasis on the good side, it's a resolution on the conviction of some events, and I don't know either. When counterpart Bećirović proposes a resolution on those good sides, I will support it if all that is in it is what was good in that system. And I will no longer replicate my colleague Bećirović, no matter what he says. NO ONE
ParlaMint-BA_2010-06-30-0.u35961	Thank you. Next replica, distinguished representative Savo Erić.
ParlaMint-BA_2010-06-30-0.u35962	Here, I'm going to try really to... the mistakes of our fathers, grandfathers, and most likely that we won't solve it. But I'm impressed by this young man that he's dragging us into this story and we can't get into a position to buy 10,000 bags that these rivers of ours that flooded us, to pick up bottles, to deal with environmentals, to discuss floods, to discuss whether the wheat is going to give birth, how we're going to bring in the wheat, how we're going to feed ourselves this winter. And let's see if there's anything else we can do, this Parliament, I expect only really today, when I've asked that question, that we'll be dealing with, by October bar, which honors us, that we can at least make something right and do something concrete for our future and our children. I can only imagine the historical distance our children will be and let's try to think about it, so what mistakes we're making right now while other people are making economies, technologies and going that way, playing and schooling. We haven't even solved school, we haven't solved thousands of problems, and we've come here for that, you've talked about it, and everyone's talked about the future here and some good things. And here I've been listening all along, so every session is some resolution and some blood and some Fata and some combinations I don't want to challenge. But, really, I don't have the strength to listen to combinations like that anymore, I can't figure it out, like a man hypnotized us. 71 Thank you.
ParlaMint-BA_2010-06-30-0.u35963	Thank you. Next debate, distinguished representative Branko Dokić.
ParlaMint-BA_2010-06-30-0.u35964	Thank you, Mr. Chairman. I did stay in the mood to say a few sentences, though I wanted to give up. Generally speaking, I personally and the party I belong to in general are against this kind of discussion in the Assembly and these kind of documents in the Assembly. We won't do any resolution, no declaration, and call her whatever you want, as the promoter has suggested, anything for the past. The past is what it is, and I'm afraid of us being here that we won't do anything with it for the future. These are issues that really need science to do business and science to open up all documents that she says her word, and we parliamentarians can only, as I say, take a step back for the future by discussing these things. But I can't, however, take the impression that I shouldn't blame my colleague Novaković with his sentence, here he is, for condemning all the crimes in that system. I'm about to condemn all crimes in all systems. So, to make..., in particular, there's no need to stress this if we take the fact that none of us are here, I'm convinced, who hasn't given up that system, the one-party system and not just us sitting here, but, well, I would say in all of BiH, we've all accepted a multi-party system and from that point of view we automatically condemned that system, that regime. Generally, and to conclude, here are these resolutions and events for discussions that have always been harmful to the challenge, and this one for the atmosphere that should exist in the congregation and around the congregation. That's why I'll be against it if there's a vote.
ParlaMint-BA_2010-06-30-0.u35965	Thank you. The next is Honorable Representative Drago Kalabić.
ParlaMint-BA_2010-06-30-0.u35966	Thank you, Mr. Chairman. Well, here, very briefly. I think we've talked about this thing on several occasions and we've been expressing our position. It is unacceptable that, let's say, those who will support this document and voted against the resolution proposed by Mr. Novaković, and the result would be that only in the Cazin region this happened and nowhere else in other places and that during that system everything else was OK and anything else was okay. I don't think that's acceptable, I'm not getting into the essence of what we're talking about today (and of the facts, but of the general attitude). So, and I know that even today the speakers said that we don't have the strength, because we're busy with much bigger problems, to end this thing like other countries did. It's not realistic to talk about this without a lustration law for which we certainly don't have the necessary majority here and need a unique attitude to bring it in. It's not realistic to talk about this without opening the UDBA archives and security services based on historical facts or views, and we don't have the strength to do that. Because this is still being debated 72, and these archives are being used or abused for other things, and then, if we had, to systematically approach this and behave correctly, in general, in accordance with how some other countries did it, for example, I don't know, the Czech Republic, Slovakia and the like. Then we could talk and then this would be all over that environment and it wouldn't be any problem. But this is how I think that history continues to be misused and hurt as it suits someone, in the way they're haired... and historians who take something out of context that suits them for some day-to-day needs. I don't think that's right, and it can't produce results, people can deal with this as much as they want, but it'll just be one lonely, isolated action, and it won't certainly give a result that these kind of debates should give. I think they should be avoided, as far as possible, the undeniable right of people to work on this and to... but they won't solve that key thing. We could go into controversy right now and open up a lot of things, really, a few unbulful things that certainly don't stand and that would open up the debate right now, but at this point, I'm not ready for that kind of controversy.
ParlaMint-BA_2010-06-30-0.u35967	Thank you. Replica, the esteemed representative Denis Bećirović.
ParlaMint-BA_2010-06-30-0.u35968	Although I am reporting behind Mr. Kalabić, the replica is not Mr. Kalabić, to be precise, Mr. Novaković. So that there would be no dilemma at this point in the agenda why the SDP Club is against this kind of text. Under number one, because the waist thinks this isn't an adequate text. So that's the first reason. The other reason is because the victims are against this text, and that's two key reasons why we'll be against it. The third thing that needs to be made very clear when it comes to the position of the SDP Club, there is no dilemma in the SDP Club that genocide, all crimes and any possible violations of human rights should be condemned. It's just that we think that this issue should be approached in a consistent, principle and whole way, not a tweezer to pull out certain things. A colleague, Novaković, said he wouldn't replicate, so I won't say everything I thought to tell him, but when he talked about the willingness to work on certain resolutions, etc., I'd prefer he showed willingness to go ahead and make that resolution about Srebrenica and condemning all the crimes, as it was called, so we'd probably have room to keep working. But then we showed what we showed in this House.
ParlaMint-BA_2010-06-30-0.u35969	Thank you. Replica, distinguished representative Slavko Jovičić.
ParlaMint-BA_2010-06-30-0.u35970	Thank you, Mr. Chairman. I have no intention of taking any coworker's right to say whatever he wants. We have one text here, and you see, as far as we're concerned, we're going back to another and the Srebrenica Resolution, and I don't know any other regimes. For the next session, I will propose 73 resolutions to condemn the way this Parliament works. The resolution is now remembered at the end of the mandate that we are taking things that will not contribute to bringing our colleagues closer together here, to reconciliation of the people, to creating a better environment and life. Having fun about a misery that we need to solve, now we need to go back 50, 100 years, which absolutely will not solve anything, only in the election campaign will remind us even more of what someone once said in Parliament, so we'll use it – ah, you had it then, let's force this on us now. So for the next session, you will be prepared a resolution, you do not need any explanation, abuse and the way in which the BiH Parliament works, it will be a resolution and my proposal. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-BA_2010-06-30-0.u35971	Thank you. There are no more reported, has respected representative Husein Nanić, the promoter.
ParlaMint-BA_2010-06-30-0.u35972	I thank you, Chairman. My, indeed, was not intended to cause unnecessary replicas and to go to those topics that are not contained in this text, but, unfortunately, here it is. Let me remind my colleagues, in four years of office, this is the first text of any declaration, resolution or anything that I bring as an MP. Why now at the end of the term? Because in May, it is 60 years from the concrete action of the state and party authorities over the people, civilians of the Casino Krajina. That's a reason, 60 years old. Two things still here, when it comes to the position of the SDP Club, I am sorry that it is so, I thank you for the contribution that Dr Bećirović made in the activities related to the research of historical facts on this subject. However, running away from the story of the profession and the victims is running away from the real thing, because the profession is not one person, I said that I would avoid the mention of the person, six authors were dealing with these serious issues, not just the one to whom he calls, yet I don't want those names to speak here. The profession said, available archives of UDBE, court, etc. So I wouldn't go on and there were no victims, there were several thousand victims, and that's why I say again I didn't mention the names. And finally, to have sincere intentions from those who raise certain doubts or the need to change something, here, I am prepared if the Rules of Procedure allows this to be the first reading. Yes, so, if the Rules of Procedure allows, if it does not allow, it remains, so I respect the rules of the Rules of Procedure, if it is first reading, if there is a need for certain things to be changed, a different set of..., this is a concrete action, and in this sense this resolution was made. I have used my mandate as a man from that field to offer this text in accordance with the Rules of Procedure, I certainly understand any vote that will also be a commitment... individually as it will vote on this resolution.
ParlaMint-BA_2010-06-30-0.u35973	Thank you. Replica, the esteemed representative Denis Bećirović. 74
ParlaMint-BA_2010-06-30-0.u35974	I think the club on whose behalf, here, and we're talking has been very correct so far, and I'm going to try to keep it straight to the end. It's not right, colleague Nanić, and it's not correct how you tried to present the SDP Club's views. I asked you in my first public statement – is there any scientific work besides Dr. Vera Kržišnik Bukić on the case? And of course you couldn't say that there's nothing there but that book that's the only book written on the sources so far. I just spoke to this woman in Zagreb and she called me a few days ago from Ljubljana, etc., and she, therefore, as the only author who has dealt with the scientific question asked me to invite you to make sure that this text does not pass here. Because there is a better, more accurate, more adequate text to be submitted in the Parliament of the Republic of Croatia. A number of people who were directly involved and victims of that cazinski rebellion also called and asked us not to do it this way. The point of the story is, trying to drag it to another field wouldn't be correct, now I'm supposed to answer here that the SDP Club has twice as much internship in the Union of Communists of Yugoslavia as the club you belong to. And a thousand other examples. But then we'll go to another plane that I don't think is right. It would be better if we could stick to facts. And I have here, and here I repeat, two very strong facts. So the people who have dealt with this question say that this is not the way to bring it. And I don't think there's any obstacle to consulting a little bit and with people who have dealt with this issue most seriously, to see what they're suggesting, what they're doing, what they're doing, etc. Once the resolution is adopted, it becomes the resolution of this Parliamentary Assembly for all time. And these are the only and only reasons of the SDP Club.
ParlaMint-BA_2010-06-30-0.u35975	Dear Representative Husein Nanić, replica.
ParlaMint-BA_2010-06-30-0.u35976	I thank you, Chairman. Here, just for twice the same question. Doctor Vera Kržišnik Bukić, as you said, wrote the textbook. Doctor, Professor Mirsad Abazović dealt with the problem, Ilić Ratko dealt with the problem, Dževad Sabljaković dealt with the problem, Master Murat Tatarević dealt with the problem, Master Midžić Fikret was dealing with the Casin rebellion. All these are the relevant names that have dealt with this problem and not the documents, the new fact, Mr Bećirović, are documents of the UDBE, the court, the archives, in the book that you only refer to, where only witness statements are. So they improve better work, but the documents are the ones that are available. And here's what I'm not gonna do about it anymore, caused twice by the same question, I had to say here.
ParlaMint-BA_2010-06-30-0.u35977	Thank you. No more reports, closing the hearing. Moving to agenda 23, 75 Ad. 23. A statement on MPs' initiative Slavko Jovičić to discuss at the meeting of the House of Agenda "Information on the resources to be allocated from the BiH institutions' budget according to claims brought before the BiH Court of Justice, and were later released by powerful verdicts" In 29.4.2010, the Honorable Representative Slavko Jovičić directed the above-mentioned initiative, the College appointed the Constitutional Commission as competent. The Commission delivered its opinion on 8.6 and adopted the above-mentioned initiative. I'm opening a debate on the Initiative. There are no reports. I'm closing the debate. 24th point, Ad. 24. A statement on MP Mirko Okolić's initiative to discuss the meeting of the House of Agenda "Information on concluded contracts for work or work in all ministries, directorates, agencies and other BiH administrative organisations from 1.1.2007 to 12.5.2010"
ParlaMint-BA_2010-06-30-0.u35982	The president, colleagues and fellow MPs. Since it is in the Constitutional Commission, and similar amendments to mine have already been agreed, I will give up my amendments.
ParlaMint-BA_2010-06-30-0.u35983	Thank you. Dear Representative Jerko Ivanković has given up his amendments. So we don't have any more amendments. We are voting on the bill's proposal in the second reading with reports from the Constitutional Legal Commission. Please prepare. Vote now. 31 votes for, without votes against, five abstentions. I find that the bill has been passed. We now approach a statement on the proposal for a conclusion of the SNSD's Club of Representatives. ________(?) [[microphone is not enabled]]
ParlaMint-BA_2010-06-30-0.u35984	When we pass this second conclusion.
ParlaMint-BA_2010-06-30-0.u35985	So it's for both of us. Okay. So we approach the plea at point 5. – Proposal for a law on collective exercise of copyright and related rights – Proposer: Council of Ministers of BiH (second reading – postponed statement at the 79th session of the House of the 16th of July) Is the same case? Jerko
ParlaMint-BA_2010-06-30-0.u35986	78 [[no microphone turned on]]
ParlaMint-BA_2010-06-30-0.u35987	Dear Representative Lijanović gave up the amendment. We have amendments to the club. _________(?) [[no microphone turned on]] He also gave up SNSD's Club of Representatives for Amendments. Dear Representative Drago Kalabić. We are voting on the amendments of the distinguished representative Drago Kalabić. Amendment I.. moliti prepare. Vote now. Nine votes to, 19 against, eight abstentions. Amendment I is not accepted. We approach the Declaration on amandman II.. Vote now. 10 votes in, 19 against. Amendment II is not accepted. We approach the Declaration on amandman III.. Vote now. Ten votes for, 19 against, six abstentions. Amendment III not accepted. We approach the Declaration on amandman iv.e. Vote now. 10 votes for, 18 against, 7 abstentions. I find that Amendment IV is not accepted. We approach a statement on the bill's proposal in the second reading with reports of the Constitutional Commission. Vote now. 31 votes for, without votes against, five abstentions. I find that the bill was adopted in a second reading with reports of the Constitutional Commission. We now approach a statement on the SNSD's proposal for a conclusion on points 4 and 5 of the SNSD, which reads – the Constitutional Law Committee of the Parliamentary House of BiH will consider the effects of their amendments and possibly propose amendments and additions to them one year after the adoption of the law referred to in points 4 and 5. Stand by. Vote now. 79 33 votes for, no votes against, 1 abstention. I find that the proposal for a conclusion has been accepted. Accessing the declaration under point 6. – Proposal for a law supplementing the Service Act in the Armed Forces of Bosnia and Herzegovina – Proposer: representatives of the SDA Club (second reading). We're voting on the bill's proposal in the second reading. Vote now. 35 votes in favour, no votes against and one abstention. I find the bill accepted in the second reading. We now approach a statement on the proposal for a conclusion that reads – The Parliamentary House of BiH requires the Ministry of Finance and the Treasury to deliver an opinion on the assessment of financial resources which would explain whether financial resources are needed in the framework of the BiH institutions' 2010 budget for the implementation of this law. Stand by. Vote now. 34 votes for, no votes against, two abstentions. I find that the proposal for a conclusion has been accepted. We now approach a statement on the proposal for the conclusion of the distinguished representative Husein Nanić, who reads – the Parliamentary Assembly of BiH's House of Representatives tasked the BiH Ministry of Defence to, using existing and valid positive legal provisions where possible, resolve the status of soldiers to which the contract stands, who were members of military formations in the period until 23.12.1995, less than two years. Vote now. 24 votes for, 2 against, 8 abstentions, insufficient entity majority. We are voting in the second round on the proposal for a conclusion. Vote now. 22 votes for, 1 against, 13 abstentions, no 2/3 against any entity. I find the bill accepted. We approach the plea under point 7. – Proposal for a law on censuses, households and apartments in Bosnia and Herzegovina 2011 – Proposer: The provisional commission (second reading) We vote on amendments by representatives of Remzija Kadrić. Amendment I. Vote now. 9 votes for, 14 against, 10 abstentions. I find that the amandman i not accepted. We approach the Declaration on amandman II.. Vote now. 8 votes for, 14 against, 13 abstentions. Amendment II is not accepted. 80 We approach the Declaration on amandman III.. 16 votes for, 14 against, 4 abstentions, insufficient entity majority. We vote in the second round. Vote now. 17 votes for, 14 against, 3 abstentions, 2/3 against from RS. The amendment was not accepted. We approach the Declaration on amandman iv.e. Vote now. 8 votes for, 14 against, 11 abstentions. Amendment IV is not accepted. We now approach a statement on amendments to SNSD's Club of Representatives. Amendment I. Vote now. Nine votes in, 21 against. Amendment I is not accepted. We approach the Declaration on amandman II.. Vote now. Nine votes for, 21 against, five abstentions. Amendment II is not accepted. We approach the Declaration on amandman III.. Vote now. 10 votes for, 21 against, 4 abstentions. Amendment III not accepted. We approach the Declaration on amandman iv.e. Vote now. 10 votes for, 21 against, 4 abstentions. Amendment IV is not accepted. We're approaching the Declaration on amandman v. glasovati now. 10 votes for, 21 against, 4 abstentions. Amendment V is not accepted. We approach the Declaration on amandman vi. Vote now. 10 votes for, 21 against, 4 abstentions. Amendment VI is not accepted. We now approach a statement on amendments by the distinguished representative Milorad Živković. Amendment I. Vote now. 10 votes for, 21 against, 4 abstentions. 81 Amendment I is not accepted. We approach the Declaration on amandman II.. Vote now. 10 votes for, 20 against, 4 abstentions. Amendment II is not accepted. We are now approaching a statement on amendments by distinguished representatives of Azra Hadžiahmetović. Amendment I. Vote now. 17 votes for, 14 against, 4 abstentions, insufficient entity majority. Round two. Vote now. 17 votes for, 14 against, 4 abstentions, 2/3 against the RS. Amendment I is not accepted. We approach the Declaration on amandman II.. Vote now. 12 votes for, 14 against, nine abstentions. Amendment II is not accepted. We're approaching the Declaration on amandman III.. Vote now. Nine votes for, 13 against, 12 abstentions. Amendment III not accepted. Now we're voting on the bill's proposal in the second reading. Vote now. 19 votes for, 9 against, 6 abstentions, insufficient entity majority. We vote in the second round. Vote now. 19 votes for, 12 against, 4 abstentions, no 2/3 of any entity against. I find that the bill of law in the second reading has been accepted. Accessing the statement under point 8. – Proposal for a Voluntary Law – Proposer: Council of Ministers of BiH (first reading). We vote on the bill in the first reading. Vote now. 23 votes for, 10 against, 2 abstentions, an insufficient entity majority. We vote in the second round. Vote now. 24 votes for, 10 against, 2 abstentions, 2/3 against, RS. The bill was not accepted. 82 We approach the statement under point 9. – Proposal for a Framework Law on Free Legal Assistance – Proposer: Council of Ministers of BiH (first reading). We're voting on the bill's proposal in the first reading. Vote now. 32 votes for, 1 against, 3 abstentions. I find that the bill was accepted in the first reading. We approach the plea under point 10. – Proposal for a Law amending the Law on Administrative Disputes of Bosnia and Herzegovina – Proposer: Council of Ministers of BiH (first reading). We vote on the bill in the first reading. Vote now. 32 votes for, no votes against, four abstentions. I find that the bill was accepted in the first reading. Accessing the statement under point 11. – Proposal for a law on achieving Bosnia and Herzegovina's co-operation with emigration – Proposers: Lejla Klokić, Sadik Bahtić, Husein Nanić and Remzija Kadrić (first reading). We're voting on the law in the first reading. Vote now. 22 votes for, 9 against, 5 abstentions, an insufficient entity majority. We vote in the second round. Vote now. 22 votes for, 10 against, 4 abstentions, 2/3 against the RS. I find the bill not accepted. We approach the statement at point 12. - Declaration by the House on the setting of a new deadline for the submission of the Opinion of the Joint Committee on Human Rights, Rights of the Child, Youth, Immigration, Refugees, Asylum and Ethics on the Proposal for a Law on the Prohibiting Wearing of Clothing, which prevents identification – Proposer: SNSD Club representatives We vote on extending the deadline until 26.7.2010. Please prepare yourselves. Vote now. 24 votes for, 10 against, 1 abstention. I find that the House of Representatives approved an extension until 26.7.2010. We approach the statement on point 13. – Report by the College Committee on the Effort of Consent on the Proposal for a Law on Amendments and Supplements to the Law on the conduct of a judicial examination in Bosnia and Herzegovina (second reading). We're voting in the second round on the draft law in the second reading. Vote now. 25 votes for, 9 against, 2 abstentions, an insufficient entity majority.
ParlaMint-BA_2010-06-30-0.u35989	No, no, that's it. 83
ParlaMint-BA_2010-06-30-0.u35990	Actually, I'm sorry, I'm sorry, I'm sorry. Dear Representative Momčilo Novaković demands repetition. We repeat the vote. Vote now. 23 votes for, 10 against, no abstentions, 2/3 against the RS. The bill was not accepted. We vote on item 14. – Report by the College Committee on Seeking Consent on the Proposal for a Law on Amendments and Supplements to the Penal Code of BiH – Proposer: Representatives of the SDP Club (second reading). We're voting in the second round on the draft law in the second reading. Vote now. 21 votes in, 9 against. Milorad
ParlaMint-BA_2010-06-30-0.u35991	/no microphone turned on/
ParlaMint-BA_2010-06-30-0.u35992	We reiterate the vote at the request of the second Vice-President. Vote now. 24 votes in favour, 10 against, 1 abstention, 2/3 against the RS. I find the bill not accepted. We approach the plea under point 15. – Report by the Commission on the attempt to reach agreement on the Opinion of the Constitutional Legal Commission on the Proposal for a Law amending the Law on State Service in the institutions of Bosnia and Herzegovina (proposer: representative Lazar Prodanović). We are voting in the second round on the negative opinion of the Constitutional Commission. Prepare to vote. Vote now. 20 votes for, 10 against, 3 abstentions. The adopted negative opinion, so the bill was rejected. We approach the statement on point 16. – Report by the College's Committee on Seeking Consensus on Proposal for Conclusion No. 2 from the 79th session of the House on Security Information in Bosnia and Herzegovina, which reads: "The House of Representatives concludes that, in the event of the lack of information from the competent ministry, at the 80th session, it will raise the issue of responsibility of the Minister of Security in the Council of Ministers of BiH".
ParlaMint-BA_2010-06-30-0.u35993	I draw this conclusion... 84
ParlaMint-BA_2010-06-30-0.u35994	We have to, I understand your request, but we'll have to plead. We are voting in the second round on the proposal for a conclusion. Vote now. 7 votes for, 26 against, 1 abstention. I find that the proposal for a conclusion has not been accepted. Accessing the statement under point 17. – Report by the College Committee on Seeking Consensus on the Proposal for Conclusions 2, 3, and 4, MP Azra Hadžiahmetović from the 79th session of the House on the discussion of information on the determination of responsibilities within the Office for the Review of Appeals, which reads: 2. "From the Council of Ministers of BiH, we are asking for information on the liability regarding the non-named members of the GSP between 25.9.2006 and 26.3.2009, which is the time of Dr. Amir Pilav was appointed the interim chairman of the L.A.R. 3. From the Council of Ministers of BiH, we ask for information on the disputed provisions of the Regulation which regulate that "the Council of Ministers may dismiss the chairman of the Service at the written request of the MPs in the Parliamentary Assembly of BiH, a member of the Council of Ministers or a member of the Service" (Article 5, paragraphs 1 and 2. Regulation (EU) No 1306/2013 of the European Parliament and of the Council of 17 December 2013 on the financial rules applicable to the general budget of the Union (OJ L 348, 30.12.2013, p. 1). 4. The BiH Parliamentary Assembly "expresses dissatisfaction with the non-professional and extremely irresponsible and trendy relationship" towards the chairman of the GUG in the process of adopting and implementing the GUG's internal organisation Regulation". Prepare to vote. Vote now. 21 votes for, 12 against, 2 abstentions. We reiterate the vote at the request of the second Vice-President. We're voting now. 21 votes for, 13 against, 2 abstentions, 2/3 against the RS. I find that the proposals for conclusions have not been accepted. Accessing the declaration under point 18. – Annual report by the High Judicial and Prosecutorial Council of Bosnia and Herzegovina for 2009. We are voting on receiving the report and recommendations for more effective work of the High Judicial and Prosecutorial Council of BiH in the coming period. Prepare to vote. Vote now. 21 votes for, 6 against, 5 abstentions, insufficient entity majority. We approach the plea in the second round. Vote now. 23 votes for, 7 against, 6 abstentions, no 2/3 against any entity. I agree that we have received the report and recommendations for more effective work of the High Judicial and Prosecutorial Council of BiH in the coming period. 85 We approach the plea under point 19. – Report on the work of the Bosnia and Herzegovina concessions Committee for 2009. We're voting for adoption of the report. Stand by. Vote now. 29 votes to, 1 against, 3 abstentions, a sufficient entity majority. I agree that we adopted the 2009 report on the work of the BiH Commission for concessions. Point 20. – Proposal for the appointment of Ante Matić as a member of the Bosnia and Herzegovina concessions commission from the Federation of Bosnia and Herzegovina. We are voting on the adoption of the proposal for the appointment of Ante Matić. Prepare to vote. Vote now. 30 votes for, 1 against, 4 abstentions, a sufficient entity majority. I agree that we have accepted the proposal for the appointment of Ante Matić as a member of the BiH concessions commission from the Federation of BiH. Accessing the statement under point 21. – Appointing representatives of the academic community and the non-governmental sector to the Committee for the Selection and Monitoring of the Agency's work on the prevention of corruption and coordination of the fight against corruption (proposed list of candidates of the Interim Joint Committee of both homes). We are voting on the appointment of a candidate representative of the academic community. We are voting on a proposal to be Mr. Mirsad Abazović. Vote now. 27 votes for, 3 against, 3 abstentions, a sufficient entity majority. I find that we have chosen Mr. Mirsad Abazović. We now approach a statement on the appointment of a candidate representative of the non-governmental sector. We are voting on a proposal to make it Mr. Milorad Vulić. Vote now. 30 votes for, 4 against, 2 abstentions. I understand we named Mr. Milorad Vulić. We approach the plea under point 22. – Proposal for a resolution on the conviction of the mass violation of the human rights of the civilian population in the Cazin region of 1950 and the crimes committed by the competent authorities of Yugoslavia/FNRJ, applicant: representative Husein Nanić. Sorry, we are going back to point 21 and we are pleading on the proposal for a conclusion of the Interim Commission which was working on the selection of candidates. Please prepare to plead. Vote now. 28 votes for, without votes against, five abstentions, a sufficient entity majority. 86 I agree that we have accepted the proposals of the Interim Commission's conclusions. We now approach the plea under point 22. – Proposal for a resolution on the conviction of the mass violation of the human rights of the civilian population in the Cazin region of 1950 and the crimes committed by the competent authorities of Yugoslavia/FNRJ, applicant: representative Husein Nanić. We're voting on the adoption of the resolution. Vote now. 19 votes to, 15 against, 2 abstentions, an insufficient entity majority. We vote in the second round. Vote now. 19 votes to 17 against, without abstention, 2/3 against the RS. I find that the motion for a resolution has not been accepted. Access to the declaration under point 23. – Statement on the Initiative of Representatives Slavko Jovičić for the debate at the House of the Agenda's meeting "Information on the resources to be allocated from the BiH institutions' budget according to complaints by persons indicted before the BiH Court of Justice, and later by powerful verdicts were released". Please prepare yourselves. Vote now. 16 votes for, 17 against, 3 abstentions. I find the initiative not accepted. Accessing the statement under point 24. – Statement on the Initiative of Representatives Mirko Okolić to discuss the meeting of the House of Agenda "Information on concluded contracts for work or work in all ministries, directorates, agencies and other BiH administrative organisations from 1.1.2007 to 12.5.2010". Prepare to vote. Vote now. 26 votes to, 7 against, 3 abstentions, a sufficient entity majority. I find the initiative accepted. Accessing the plea under point 25. – Giving consent to ratification: (a) Loan agreement between Bosnia and Herzegovina and the International Bank for Reconstruction and Development - A project for waste water in Sarajevo, (b) Loan agreement between Bosnia and Herzegovina and the OPEC Fund for International Development - A project for improving living conditions in the countryside, (c) A loan agreement and a project of KfW, Frankfurt at Majna and Bosnia and Herzegovina and the Federation of Bosnia and Herzegovina and the Public Companies of the Croatian Community of Herceg-Bosnia d.d. Mostar, for the project Wind Power Plant Mesihovina, d) Convention on the Law Implementation Centre in Southeast Europe. I suggest we first declare that we are voting in a package of a) to d). Vote now. 87 32 votes for, 2 against, no abstentions. I agree that the dom has declared to vote in the package – Giving consent to ratify the agreement from a) to d) in point 25. We now vote on granting consent. Vote now. 33 votes for, no votes against, 1 abstention. I find that the PSBiH House of Representatives has agreed to ratify the agreement from a) to d). Before we conclude today's session, I would like to thank you for your patience and cooperation and to note that the 81st House session is planned for 14.7 this year. Thank you very much. Session completed at 17.25 p.m.
