ParlaMint-BA_2010-09-01-0.u8242	Ladies and gentlemen, honored colleagues and fellow delegates, present representatives of the Council of Ministers, respected media representatives, I warmly welcome you and open the 49th session of the House of Peoples of the Parliamentary Assembly of Bosnia and Herzegovina. There are 14 delegates present at the session, four of them from the Bosniak people, five from the order of the Croatian and five from the Serb people. Mr. Hilmo Neimarlija is away, and I have information that he's coming to the session, but he's not here for now. For the 49th session, I suggest the next 1. Answers to delegates' questions and delegates' questions; 2. The adoption of the minutes from the 48th session of the House of Peoples; 3. Proposal for a law supplementing the Law on Service in the Armed Forces of BiH (second reading), Proposer of the House of Representatives; 4. Proposal for a Law amending the Law on Administrative Disputes of Bosnia and Herzegovina (second reading), Proposer of the Council of Ministers of BiH; 5. Proposal to amend and supplement the Code of Conduct of MPs and delegates in the Parliamentary Assembly of BiH (second reading), Proposer of the Joint Commission for Human Rights, Rights of the Child, Youth, Immigration, Refugees, Asylum and Ethics; 6. Proposal for a law on international and inter-entity road transport (first reading), Proposer of the Council of Ministers of BiH; 7. Confirmation of the decision to refer members of Bosnia and Herzegovina's Armed Forces to the International Security Assistance Force (ISAF) mission in the Islamic Republic of Afghanistan; 8. Appointment of members to the DTT Forum Expert Commission (the Ministry of Communications and Transport material); 9. Change in the conclusion of the House of Peoples with the 47th session, held 24. Six. In 2010, in connection with the borrowing of Deputy Minister of Security Mije Krešić to serve as acting director of the Agency for the Prevention of Corruption and Co-ordination of the fight against corruption; 10. Giving consent to the ratification of the Agreement between the Council of Ministers of BiH and the Government of the Republic of Turkey on health co-operation; 2 11. Giving consent to the ratification of the Agreement between the Czech Republic and Bosnia and Herzegovina on the exchange and mutual protection of classified information; 12. Giving consent to the ratification of the Agreement on Economic Co-operation between the Ministry of Foreign Trade and Economic Relations of BiH and the Ministry of Industry and Trade of the Czech Republic; 13. Giving consent to the ratification of the Agreement between the Council of Ministers of BiH and the Government of the Republic of Serbia in the field of education, culture and sports; 14. Giving consent to the ratification of the Agreement between Bosnia and Herzegovina and the International Development Association – First programme financing for public spending development policies; 15. Giving consent to ratification of the Treaty between Bosnia and Herzegovina and the Republic of Serbia on Amendments and Supplements to the Treaty between Bosnia and Herzegovina and Serbia-Montenegro on the mutual enforcement of judicial decisions in criminal matters; 16. Giving consent to the ratification of the Agreement between Bosnia and Herzegovina and the International Bank for Reconstruction and Development – First programme loan for public spending development policies; 17. Giving consent to ratification of the financing agreement between Bosnia and Herzegovina and the International Development Association – Project support for social security and employment networks; 18. Giving consent to ratification of the Agreement between the Council of Ministers of BiH and the Vlada of the federativan Republic of Brazil on partial visa waiver; 19. Giving consent to the ratification of the Agreement between the Council of Ministers of BiH and the Government of the Arab Republic of Egypt on the mutual abolition of visas for holders of diplomatic, official and special passports; 20. Giving consent to the ratification of the Agreement on Credit between Bosnia and Herzegovina, represented by the Ministry of Finance and Treasury, and Raiffeisen Zentralbank Österreich Actiengesellschaft – Construction of a new hospital in Bijeljina; 21. Giving consent to ratification of the Agreement on Tourism Cooperation between the Council of Ministers of BiH and the Government of Montenegro; 22. Giving consent to the ratification of the Agreement between Bosnia and Herzegovina and the People's Democratic Republic of Algeria on the avoidance of double taxation and the prevention of fiscal ejaculation in relation to income and property taxes; 23. Giving consent to ratification of the Air Traffic Agreement between the Council of Ministers of BiH and the Government of the Republic of India; 24. Giving consent to the ratification of the Statute of the International Agency for Renewable Energy (IRENA); 25. Giving consent to the ratification of the Protocol between the Council of Ministers of BiH and the Government of the Republic of Estonia on the implementation of the Agreement between the European Community and Bosnia and Herzegovina on the reading of persons staying without authorisation; 26. Appointment of a member of the Management Board of the Public Radio and Television Service of Bosnia and Herzegovina from the Croatian People (Rang-list of the Regulatory Agency for Communications); 27. Proposal for a law on censuses, households and apartments in Bosnia and Herzegovina 2011 (second reading), Proposer Representative House; 3 This is a harmonised agenda for the House of Peoples. There have been many points that have been tried to put them on the agenda, but most of the votes in the College have not been accepted for these points to be on the agenda of today's session. Here, I'm opening a discussion. Does anyone report for a word on the agenda and have requests for changes and additions? Here you go, Comrade Šaraba.
ParlaMint-BA_2010-09-01-0.u8244	Thank you, Madam Chairman. Dear colleagues, ladies and gentlemen, the respected representatives of information funds, the Council of Ministers, at a meeting of the Defence and Security Commission, held two days ago, discussed more important information and mainly concluded that these points should be forwarded to the House for further consideration and adoption. I have to say, two of those dots are very, very important. One is the Report on realised permits for the transport of weapons, military equipment and dual-use products and another is Information on the resolution of surpluses of weapons, ammunition and mine-explosive assets of the Armed Forces of BiH. I am especially emphasising this other one. Currently in BiH, there is an extremely large delay in resolving these surpluses of weapons, and since in BiH, literally some places in BiH are sitting on a powder keg because these surpluses are not being destroyed, I personally believe, and this is the conclusion of this commission that this information should be considered at today's House session and that urgent and concrete conclusions are being made, because the situation is extremely, extremely serious. So here, it seems to me, there's no one from the Department of Defense, and according to the information we have from the field, the situation is extremely worrying. And that's why this point was supposed to be found just like the one I said before. I am therefore surprised that these points are not on the agenda because it was necessary to find themselves on the agenda, to consider, to draw concrete conclusions and to remove these delays that exist because the delays are very, very large and very long and do not affect the removal of those deficiencies that are evident and that exist. That's why my proposal and it was on this committee to put these points on the agenda of the House in order to address the shortcomings that are large and urgent to remove. Thank you.
ParlaMint-BA_2010-09-01-0.u8245	Thank you. Is anyone else picking up? Mr. Ivanic. Here you go.
ParlaMint-BA_2010-09-01-0.u8246	Dear colleagues, I would suggest that this session be postponed because we have an announcement that the National Assembly of the Republic of Slovenia will discuss the List Act. You know that I'm in favour of this law, I still have my own opinion, no matter how much I disagree with Article 48, that law should be passed. But since he's moved to the last point, we're probably not going to say anything about him. And if we have to sit down one more time, and we're probably gonna have to, then let's not do anything until that moment, so we don't make a farce. Because today it's 1st and 7th, there's a special session that needs to discuss how we should behave today, which I'm just still considering as some kind of 4 political circus that I don't want to participate in. And that's why I think it would be good to postpone today's session, not to interrupt it, because we're probably going to interrupt again at some point, in some way or other. To be open and honest, let's not hold a session, let's wait for it to pass, and see what the overall result is going to be. I know that some international factors have sought two points of the agenda. I suggest we adopt you two. Obviously, the College was pressurized by this, so it changed the order of events relative to the last session, so I suggest we adopt the sending of troops to Afghanistan and the appointment of this performer of duty and then delay the session and wait for that part of the debate so we don't simply make some kind of political circus again, and I think we're slowly getting ready for that again today. That's it.
ParlaMint-BA_2010-09-01-0.u8247	Thank you very much. Who's next to answer the word? So, I must remind Mr Ivanić first that means we had to hold a session today because it is about visa liberalisation, the adoption of the last conditions that we are obliged to do. So today's session had to be. The agenda is agreed on by the College and agreed on by the College. I must remind Mr. Šarab that the predstavnički of Representatives also did not adopt at its session what the Defence Commission did at the last session, in fact it did not deliver anything concrete about these materials. We don't have anyone from the Department of Defense, so it's all about putting these points on the agenda. Is there anyone else who answers your question? _________(?) [[no microphone turned on]] I said we have to because it's a condition for liberalisation. If you want, go ahead.
ParlaMint-BA_2010-09-01-0.u8249	Well, you see, about Mr Ivanić's proposal, I'd like to comment. I think we would have made a precedent that we haven't had in the BiH Parliament so far if some question, the agenda item, would have been delayed because we don't have the entity's legislative position. That's why I don't think we should postpone this session, that all these issues that are on the agenda are in some way more or less important and should be adopted by a series of these contracts that we need to ratify. We're waiting for the realization of the same ones down in the field, and I don't see why this session would be delayed, so before, in a certain way, we have indications and we know how this session is going to end. 5
ParlaMint-BA_2010-09-01-0.u8250	Thank you very much. Since no one's answering for a word, I'm asking... Here you go, Mr. Ivanić.
ParlaMint-BA_2010-09-01-0.u8251	First, I'm surprised, I expected at least SNSD's support for this proposal, and that's why I deliberately told it. That's why I deliberately said it, because I expected support from them at least to get a chance to get the National Assembly what SNSD delegates insisted on to get the opportunity to declare the List Act. And I expected support, and at least I hope to get support from them for my proposal.
ParlaMint-BA_2010-09-01-0.u8252	Here you go, Comrade Šaraba.
ParlaMint-BA_2010-09-01-0.u8253	Madam Chairman, therefore, I am not satisfied with the answer you gave me regarding these suggestions for one basic reason that not being present at the Ministry of Defence means anything. So they can be invited to come as soon as possible and to be present if this point is included in the agenda. And the fact that he did not consider the House of Representatives, we are equal homes and something can be considered in a different order than the House of Representatives and the House of Peoples. So, personally, I think I don't feel like there's any will in the College to consider anything or... from most of the members of the Kolegijum, and I really think that these two points have been earned today and should have been found in the agenda.
ParlaMint-BA_2010-09-01-0.u8254	I'd like to ask the Proposer to make a statement if you'd like the House to make a statement on your proposals.
ParlaMint-BA_2010-09-01-0.u8255	Of course. So I suggest that Dom plead.
ParlaMint-BA_2010-09-01-0.u8256	Mr. Ivanovich?
ParlaMint-BA_2010-09-01-0.u8257	Same thing.
ParlaMint-BA_2010-09-01-0.u8258	Nice to meet you, Mr. Ljubičić. 6
ParlaMint-BA_2010-09-01-0.u8259	I thank you, Madam Chairman. Gentlemen of the Kolegijum, fellow delegates and colleagues, gentlemen of the Council of Ministers, distinguished guests, like this, when this debate about today's agenda was opened and if the problem is 'The Law on the List', and when it comes to SNSD – SNSD had and has its position on this law. If it's the attitude of the National Assembly of the RS, we'll wait for him. We have respected and tried so far to respect the attitudes of the RS Assembly. I would not now prejudge the position taken by the National Assembly of the Republic of Slovenia on this matter, but when it comes to this'List Law', I repeat once again, the SNSD has its position on this matter and I suggest we simply make a statement on this agenda and I personally think that there is no need for today, so anything in particular changes in this agenda. Thank you.
ParlaMint-BA_2010-09-01-0.u8260	Here, first, let's get to the point of Mr. Šaraba's proposal. Who is in favour of putting these points, mentioned by Mr. Šaraba, on the agenda of today's session? Five. We don't have an entity majority. So the proposal wasn't accepted. Let's go to Mr Ivanić's next proposal. Who is Mr Ivanić's "for" proposal to put only two points on the agenda and leave the rest for another session? Two. Who Is “against ”? That means 13. So we have neither the general nor the entity majority. So this proposal didn't go through either. So we've adopted the agenda as proposed and we're going along that agenda. _________(?) [[no microphone turned on]] Yeah, to stop and say hello to Mr. Hilmo Neimarlija. So we're working in a full membership of 15 members. Moving to point one: Ad. 1. Answers to Legislative Questions and New Legislative Questions 7
ParlaMint-BA_2010-09-01-0.u8263	The Honorable Chairman, fellow delegates, guests, therefore, I am pleased with both responses, especially with the response from the Ministry of Water Management. And the content or reasons of my pleasure I will present in matters which I will refer to the prime minister and which is initiated among other things and the answers I have received. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-BA_2010-09-01-0.u8264	Thank you very much. Delegate Adem Ibrahimpašić, to answer the question asked at the 46th session of the House of Peoples. Yes or no?
ParlaMint-BA_2010-09-01-0.u8265	Thank you, Madam Chairman. Let me just introduce you a little bit. At a joint session in February, I asked the Ministry of Foreign Trade and Economic Relations: 'What makes it seem to sign agreements on mutual recognition of goods quality certificates with Serbia and Croatia?' That's tad someone from the ministry came out, I don't remember the name, he said it was already signed with Serbia and was expected with Croatia in March 4th, such a meeting, and that it would be a done deal. As time went on, we experienced the same problems at the border as before. In May I asked this question again, in style: If these agreements are signed, why are we experiencing the same problems at the borders as before? And now I've got the answer. In response, she said, here is literally: "The signing of those protocols is expected when the first meeting of senior officials of the resolution ministries and the governments of the two countries." It's thought of Serbia. So it's not signed, and it's said to be. And as far as Croatia is concerned, so representatives of the Croatian side, it has been made clear that this situation 8 is unsustainable and that activities will have to be launched as soon as possible because otherwise, the Croatian side will be deemed not to be ready to co-operate. And she's not ready. So we don't have signed agreements, we have the same problems. Is there anyone here from the Ministry of Foreign Trade and Economic Relations, I don't know, but all he has to do is in a sublegal act that says, in our sublegal act, that the goods being sampled for quality testing should not be placed on the market before the analysis is completed. To write as it says in both Croatia and Serbia that goods should not be customsated until the analysis has been completed, so their trucks would also stand at customs warehouses for 20 days and pay for all pixels and trust them will very quickly accept it. And what I've been saying is personal to people, but nobody's interested in it, and we're taking a lot of damage as a country for this. Thank you.
ParlaMint-BA_2010-09-01-0.u8266	Thank you very much. Delegate Hazim Rančić, to answer the question asked at the 47th session of the House of Peoples. Yes or no?
ParlaMint-BA_2010-09-01-0.u8267	Thank you very much. The esteemed chairman, distinguished colleagues and colleagues, representatives of the Council of Ministers, media representatives, respected guests, so I received two answers. One question was the legality of the work of Elektroprenos BiH, and one answer for the last session was received from the acting director, and the addition of the answer, as I asked for it, was also received from the Management Board, i.e. the Council of Ministers through the resolution ministry. I am not satisfied with the answer because one and the other answer results in the work of this important company for BiH, unfortunately there are still blockades in the work. It says that the blockade lasted in the eighth, ninth, in the answers that the OHR executed the deblock by calling the board's session on what they were supposed to do further, but when you read it in detail, and one and the other answer, you will see that there are actually still blockades in this company and that neither the Management Board nor the Management Board is working on. It is in response to the finely prescribed authority of the Council of Ministers, and the RES, and the State Regulatory Agency for Electricity, that OHR called 16. 11. In 2009, the Management Board, that the Administration was tasked with forming a work plan by 2012, they would not do so without delivering it to the Management Board for adoption, that it would take almost a year to elect the Director General and Executive Directors. You don't know what it is, so it's permanent blockades. That they had activities with the Energy Community Secretariat in Vienna 17. 2. In 2010, a working group was formed to complete the job within a month, to propose measures that would lead to the unblocking of the work of this important institution. Unfortunately, none of it was done. And here, let's say today, the situation in that company is the same as before. 9 So, I would like to ask again the question to the Council of Ministers, the RES (the Council of Ministers in Co-operation with Entity Governments, our Resort Ministry of Foreign Trade and Economic Relations, State Regulatory Agency for Electricity): 'What are they planning to do to unblock the work of this important company and establish its work in accordance with the applicable laws in this area, which are the Law on Transfer, Regulator and Operator of the Electricity System in BiH and the Law establishing an Electricity Transfer Company in BiH?' Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-BA_2010-09-01-0.u8268	Thank you. Mr. Slobodan Šaraba, asked questions at the 46th, 47th and 48th sessions.
ParlaMint-BA_2010-09-01-0.u8269	Thank you, Madam Chairman. So I'm absolutely unhappy with the answers. Here, I'll start in a row. So, on my delegate issue at the 46th session of the Regulatory Agency for Communications on Technical Problems in the field of Herzegovina, I received an answer in which the Regulatory Agency finds that there were technical problems, that they lasted a longer period of time and finally apologizes. So at the end of her memo, she apologizes. The letter could have ended in another way: it informs citizens of the area that it would compensate them, since the long period of time compensated the citizens of the area and illegally took their money. So, what she apologizes for in the end, it's absolutely unacceptable. As for my question, which I referred to a number of addresses about the protection of deceived citizens by banks and microcredit organisations, I received an answer, so from only two institutions: from the Banking Agency and the ombudusmen Institution. My question was 'what they intend to do to those institutions', and I received the answer 'that they only held a meeting and propose appropriate safeguards in terms of how citizens should act'. So it's for associations absolutely unacceptable, it's for these citizens unacceptable. I must say that I was particularly dissatisfied or disappointed with the decision of the National Assembly of the Republic of Slovenia, which is one initiative that existed to reject most of the votes, and that was once how to legally launch appropriate mechanisms to protect these people, because over 100 million marks are returning to the jury in BiH, at least that's how it comes from this data that I got. So, here is no proposed programme of measures, here are just to give some, I would say, advisory suggestions how to protect citizens. And at this point, in any case, it is absolutely insufficient, given that a huge number of BiH citizens are in an extremely difficult situation. Here, so these are my comments. I'm generally dissatisfied, and here I finally have to say, I'm unhappy that I haven't received an answer to a number of questions I've asked. Ten or eleven questions exist that I have asked the Council of Ministers, unfortunately I have no answers. At least I expect to get them by the end of the term. Thank you. 10
ParlaMint-BA_2010-09-01-0.u8270	Thank you very much. And finally, delegate Dušanka Majkić, questioned at the 47th session of the House of Peoples. So my question, which has been asked recently, and I thank the Ministry of Defense for finding it appropriate to answer so quickly, but I must say, has not answered the key question. So the question is about a remont helicopter in Ukraine. The question, therefore, was whether, after the remont was completed, the execution of tasks by the Armed Forces, so for civilian missions and peace missions, whether the Armed Forces after the remont had received completely unusable helicopters for which the amount of around 10 million marks was paid and whether they respected the procedure under the Public Procurement Act. I got a lot of technical data, but the answer to the question I didn't get. However, since the helicopter book contains all the shortcomings that have been identified by the contractors, they best speak of how the remont was done. If the book says that the hydroulic leaks, which means that the helicopter can be set on fire or lose power on the flight, then that means that the remont is not well done. If the dirt is... motor oil after the remont, we know the bar and the car, the filters should be clean. If the fuel filter and the solvent is polluted in fuel tanks, it means that the remont is not done in that section. If the uncertainty of screws and nuts is, that means that the bolts of friction can question the dangers of destroying helicopters at all, the loss of engine power in takeoff. And another series of remarks that whoever was in charge of receiving the helicopter found. So, I'm very unhappy with that, and I don't think the Armed Forces will have any helicopters intended for either peace or civilian missions. So we're moving on to new questions. Any new delegate questions? Who's calling? There isn't. Moving to point 2. The adoption of the minutes from the 48th session of the House of Peoples You've reached the 48th session. Did you raise your hand?
ParlaMint-BA_2010-09-01-0.u8272	/no microphone turned on/
ParlaMint-BA_2010-09-01-0.u8273	What?
ParlaMint-BA_2010-09-01-0.u8274	/no microphone turned on/
ParlaMint-BA_2010-09-01-0.u8275	I didn't see you raise your hand, I beg your pardon. Here you go. 11
ParlaMint-BA_2010-09-01-0.u8276	/no microphone turned on/
ParlaMint-BA_2010-09-01-0.u8277	Okay, I don't have to remember exactly what you said. Here you go.
ParlaMint-BA_2010-09-01-0.u8278	So I have a question for the prime minister of the Federation of BiH. Following the Federation of BiH's constitution, the first jurisdiction of the Federation's prime minister is to enforce the federal government's law. On the basis of this most important responsibility in the Executive Authority of the Federation of BiH, I ask the prime minister to answer the following question: ‘What will be done to determine the responsibility of the Federal Administration for Inspections for Unrespected Federal Laws in the company Prevention and to ensure that the citizens of the High enjoy access to information, participation in decision-making and access to justice in environmental matters, guaranteed by the federal laws and laws at the level of BiH and the international convention?’ In response to Damir Jurić, Federal Minister of Agriculture, Water and Forestry, of 26. 3. In 2010, on a delegation issue from the BiH Parliamentary Assembly on compliance with legal requirements and compliance with legal standards in waste production and management processes at the Preven company in Vis, it is said that the Chief Federal Inspector is 2. 2. In 2010, he found that in the production facility of the Preven company in the High School, the collection, conservation, processing, storage and transport of raw and fresh leather of cattle and sheep were carried out and that no veterinary health consent was issued for the location, construction and reconstruction, as set out in Article 31(1) of the Federal Veterinary Act. The reply also states that according to reports from the Prevent Wastewater report released in the Prevent River of Bosnia, the conditions of the water business permit do not satisfy and that inspections in Prevent during 2008, 2009, 2010 established such a violation of the water-related environmental permit that an infringement order has been lodged each time against Prevent and a wet part of the production has been suspended. The Minister's reply does not contain specific data from the report, which was created by a private institution for the needs of the Prevention, under which the presence of harmful substances in wastewaters from Prevent passes the legal measures allowed from 6 to 20 times. The “Days” magazine published in the issue of 19.4.2010 part of the mentioned Report on the analysis of technological waste water from Prevent where this is clearly visible. In response, Minister Ljubić's response is not treated with Prevent's air pollution, especially the gas compounds of sulfur as a more drastic violation of the law and a threat to the health of the citizens of the High, as there has never been a complete measurement of the presence of these gases, either at the request of the Prevent or at the request of the relevant inspection authorities. The citizens of the High and Passors through the High Ages breathe in and gasses suffer their odor and nausea caused by more sensitive persons, without real knowledge of the proportions of their presence in the air and possible adverse effects on human health and the environment. 12 Although the incomplete response by Minister Ljubić confirms the non-compliance of federal laws in Prevent and exposes as guilty, official answers on the issue of the director of the Federal Administration for Inspective Affairs addressed to the Parliamentary Assembly of BiH and the Municipal Council High on questions about the relationship with the prevention of environmental and health threats, which have been addressed as a delegate issue from Parliamentary Assembly 23. Seven. 2008 and as council questions from the Municipal Council High of 5. 12. In 2009, the Director of the Federal Department of Investigations sent the same text of replies to the Parliamentary Assembly and the Municipal Council, which said that the Prevention is continuously taking action in accordance with the provisions of the Environmental Protection Act and that the report on waste mud analysis carried out by the Institute of Hydrotechnical Engineering of the Faculty of Civil Engineering in Sarajevo has concluded that the analyzed mud can be delayed without negative effects on the environment. In order to launch and maintain operations that are subject to manufacturing processes in the Prevention of the Environment Act of the Federation of BiH requires, among other things, a complex procedure for environmental impact assessment, adequate public inclusion at local level and through competent state authorities, and a consistent fulfilment of the conditions and tasks involving environmental authorisation. When initiating production in the former work of Prevent, these requirements are neither properly respected nor adequately respected, e.g. High-level citizens have never even received reference information on the composition of gases being broadcast from the Prevention of Skin Processing plants and their effects on human health, although this is their right under the laws of this country and international conventions. It is clear that for Prevent the years of violation of federal laws or the deafening of the legal norm, responsibility is borne not only by the management of this company but also by the Federation's inspection bodies. Thank you.
ParlaMint-BA_2010-09-01-0.u8279	Thank you very much. I'm asking again if anyone else is answering their words when it comes to new questions. No, I don't. We're going to the next item on the agenda. That's point two, Ad. 2. The adoption of the minutes from the 48th session Any objections to the record? Is anyone picking up? No, I don't. We're voting on the record. Who Is For? Unanimity. I find that the record of the 48th session of the House of Nations was adopted unanimously. Point 3. 13 Ad. 3. Proposal for a law supplementing the Law on Service in the Armed Forces of BiH (second reading), Proposer: Representative House
ParlaMint-BA_2010-09-01-0.u8282	Madam Chairman, you've basically already said what's important. The proposal to amend and supplement this law was also in the second phase of our commission. With eight votes "yes", one vote "against", without "abstained" votes, the Joint Commission adopted the proposal for a law supplementing the Law on Service in the Armed Forces of BiH, and this report referred to the parliamentary procedure, that is, the House of Peoples, because the procedure in the House of Representatives has already been completed. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-BA_2010-09-01-0.u8283	Is anyone else picking up? If not, I'll give myself my word. I think I talked a lot about this law at the last session. I would like to comment on something new and this is a letter from the Ministry of Defence addressed to the Council of Ministers and... in the case is the Opinion on the draft law on additions to the Law on Service in the Armed Forces of BiH, and this means after the opinion of the Ministry of Finance which has said it is undermining the country's fiscal sovereignty. We do, and that means whoever this law applies to. He says the following findings in the end: "According to the reasoned allegations, the Ministry of Defence proposes to the Council of Ministers the following conclusions: 1.The BiH Council of Ministers does not give a positive opinion and does not support the draft law supplementing the Law on Service in the Armed Forces of BiH for reasons of fiscal restriction in the Budget of the BiH institutions." That's the first conclusion. And second conclusion: '2. It is up to the BiH Ministry of Defence to deliver the above opinion of the BiH Council of Ministers to the House of Representatives and the House of Peoples in the follow-up procedure." So, again, I want to say that if the law passes, so in the next three years it's 30 million, in the next period, the number of years depends on how many these people 14 need to do a full internship, it's the size of a hundred million. Since last time I said that pension-inhabitation laws in the RS do not mean that people with so few years of life, and according to this internship, will retire, the law will not be implemented even if it is voted for. It would not be good, then, to make a decision that cannot be implemented because it is the time of the election campaign. Thank you. Is anyone else picking up? Here you go, Mr. Šarab.
ParlaMint-BA_2010-09-01-0.u8284	Thank you, Madam Chairman. So, I must say, I have never again had calls for these four years as the last month from all parts of the RS, from Prijedor, Doboj, the III Infantry Battalion from Bijeljina, Foche and the voice of all was to help. I personally think when it comes to this law that he's on a conscience exam and that's why I'm going to give my vote to this law, so I'm going to support him. I won't accept this position from the Ministry of Defense because the Department of Defense has had very much time to resolve certain issues and to come out with its position. It seems to me that this is an orderly attitude or a late attitude. That's why I don't accept it. I also believe that this is not any transfer of jurisdiction, because these people are not receiving something at entity level, so now they're being given something at BiH level, and they're being abolished at entity level. What they're getting is something that allows them from the budget of the Budget of BiH which, according to the reasons we got at the beginning, is not great, and these are the means that these people need to enable them to have a life worthy of man. I'd be against this law right now and I'd be voting against him if someone in these last two months had offered these people something and had come out with a proposal to say, "Here's something you had, without your guilt you're left with, we're giving you something else." This way nothing has been offered to people, nothing has been given to people, and what is given to them is minimal. And I also expect this law to be a law that will apply to a certain period of time. So, after a year when the Council of Ministers and Entity Governments solve... these people, that he will cease to apply.
ParlaMint-BA_2010-09-01-0.u8285	/no microphone turned on/
ParlaMint-BA_2010-09-01-0.u8286	So this is something that these people need to allow a man to live, and that's why I'm going to support this law.
ParlaMint-BA_2010-09-01-0.u8287	Thank you very much. Next came Mr. Rančić. It's a Rančić before. The first is Rančić, then Ljubičić, then Ivanic. 15
ParlaMint-BA_2010-09-01-0.u8288	Thank you very much. So, I followed along, of course I'll talk, but I followed, and I saw that my colleague Šaraba and Mr Ivanić first called, yes, so you, so I, and then the gentleman.
ParlaMint-BA_2010-09-01-0.u8289	Well, Mr. Rančić, then we'll switch places so you come here, I don't see too well. Please don't let it go.
ParlaMint-BA_2010-09-01-0.u8290	Well, they have glasses. Of course, you're the chairman but.
ParlaMint-BA_2010-09-01-0.u8291	Let's go. Let's go. Here, I give you my word.
ParlaMint-BA_2010-09-01-0.u8292	Of course, thank you very much. So, after several attempts to try to get rid of it. Did you say something?
ParlaMint-BA_2010-09-01-0.u8293	I didn't say anything.
ParlaMint-BA_2010-09-01-0.u8294	So, after several attempts to resolve the care of the people who had expired the contracts for professional work in the Armed Forces of BiH and were members of the armed formations during the war and after a series of information we received from the Ministry of Defence, here we have come to this text of the law which essentially does not question the level of transformation reached within the BiH defence system and regarding our path to NATO, which does not dispute that path. Because by solving these people, we are opening the way for the reception of new professional soldiers, and this is already happening during this year 2010. So it's being helped from the level of the state to solve the care of these people and, therefore, there's no reason not to support the adoption of this law. It's been a few months since the story of this. Even last year, we had information about the possible care of people whose contract will expire in 2010. And some private or semi-private opinions of the Ministrys that we, the other colleagues, didn't have, or at least we didn't have in the official procedure, and you know how many times we've all worked together on the Joint Defence and Security Commission, I don't think they're acceptable and she can't tie us up in this decision today. The application of the law when we adopt it, if Bog does, is possible and it is binding for all those concerned and it is quite simple and it is perfectly normal and it is known that lower levels of government, in this case entities, should align their regulations with those at the state level. 16 So this thing is applicable and, behold, I invite all colleagues and colleagues to support the adoption of this law. Thank you.
ParlaMint-BA_2010-09-01-0.u8295	Thank you. Next up is Mr. Ljubičić.
ParlaMint-BA_2010-09-01-0.u8296	I thank you, Madam Chairman. When it comes to this law, I will try to comment on a part of this problem. First of all, I want to say that I am aware of the social problems of these people who, under the current law, are being stopped from serving in the Armed Forces. I don't think there's any dilemma about any of us, so here I am. But I also want to say something. I believe that all members of the BiH Armed Forces were clear when they joined the Armed Forces of BiH under which conditions they entered the service. They were aware of these very provisions of the law, meaning that according to this law comes a time when it ceases, simply, the duration of this service. I will also attach to this information that we received in the meantime from the Ministry of Defence - Information on resolving the status of members of the Armed Forces of BiH, which brings out the 2010 contract -- which I hope we have all received and read. We see from this information that during the previous period, the Ministry has undertaken several activities within its capabilities to offer and seek a solution for these people within the framework of, I say, its opportunities and within the scope of BiH, which BiH has and how and how it can help these people. I also want to comment on this information, which is a very interesting part of the text to me. Let me read: "The interruption of military service to this category of military personnel is the result of continued reform of the defence system on the road for full NATO membership which is not yet fully completed." This is a socially sensitive category of persons who highlight their war and war merits, i.e. point out their great contribution to building a single defence system in BiH, which I have nothing really against this finding, that is, everything... means in the spirit of what I just said is a category of people and is a social problem, and are therefore potentially socially endangered and in the election year can easily be the subject of political manipulation in order to destabilise the overall political security system of the country and beyond. I find this final part of this text very interesting to me, and this attitude and the findings of the minister. I'll make my point, here's the first thing about this issue. I am not in favour of the election, the election year, and any problem is solved by opening up additional problems in the next period. And here's a chance for us to hear that we can just get into this situation, and if this law passes, there will be a series of other problems that will be very difficult to solve in the next period. Thank you. 17
ParlaMint-BA_2010-09-01-0.u8297	Thank you very much. Mr. Ivanic.
ParlaMint-BA_2010-09-01-0.u8298	In the materials I have, I tried to find this, I didn't have this. In a letter I have from the Secretary of Defense, I don't have it. Is there? _________(?) [[no microphone turned on]] I don't have it, so that's why I think...
ParlaMint-BA_2010-09-01-0.u8300	It's not an excuse that it's not true if you don't. If you'd looked, you could've...
ParlaMint-BA_2010-09-01-0.u8301	No, I'm not saying it, I'm just asking if I don't have my fault, or if all the delegates got it, or if it's something we didn't all get. That's my question. But unbound by that, one of the reasons I've suggested postponing the session is this. There are different visions about this too. And I'm surprised I didn't get the support to postpone the SNSD session because he's against this law, and I wanted to allow this to be discussed by the National Assembly. So, I've done my part of the job by wanting to give the National Assembly a chance to plead this out. Second, as far as I know, these are fighters. I know about the group coming from the RS it's the fighters. And as far as I know, those people at the time of the contract didn't know they were going to stop serving them at 35. I'm saying what I know. If I'm wrong, you tell me I'm wrong. So it's the fighters, the people who participated in the war. And as far as I know, at least from the experience I have, I don't claim to know everything, most people who were out of work in the RS military had some sort of compensation. Whether it was 10,000 marks at a time when the surplus was declared due to the 2001 defence reform, whether it was six thousand marks in 2004, and this group of people has no compensation. I called in public, I don't know how much anyone listened to me, to offer them something, and that I'm willing not to vote for this law, too. They weren't offered anything, but absolutely nothing. I can't be the one to raise my hand for people who, I'm talking now about members of the RS Army, doing something there, fighting, eventually coming out and staying on the street, I really can't. And that's why I'm going to support this bill, and I've given this proposal that I've had for the National Assembly to declare this, and I would respect the position of the National Assembly if it were binding, to say that it should not be supported by the law. And since that's not there, then these are my arguments about why I think we should uphold the law. 18
ParlaMint-BA_2010-09-01-0.u8302	Mr. Ivanic, there is no declaration of the National Assembly on this law, because... it is impossible to apply it, so you are not mistaken. ... Next up, Mr. Jović.
ParlaMint-BA_2010-09-01-0.u8303	/no microphone turned on/
ParlaMint-BA_2010-09-01-0.u8304	Well, I haven't seen you, so hold your hand like this.
ParlaMint-BA_2010-09-01-0.u8305	/no microphone turned on/
ParlaMint-BA_2010-09-01-0.u8306	No Niko, here, is just me watching. IVO
ParlaMint-BA_2010-09-01-0.u8307	No microphone turned on
ParlaMint-BA_2010-09-01-0.u8308	I'm sorry that you...
ParlaMint-BA_2010-09-01-0.u8309	I don't need anyone to give me a head start, I want my turn. So, I don't need any leverage.
ParlaMint-BA_2010-09-01-0.u8310	Here's your turn, Mr. Rajić.
ParlaMint-BA_2010-09-01-0.u8311	So, Madam Chairman, with all due respect, I am warning of the violation of the Rules of Procedure that you keep doing in this agenda point. As the agenda that is adopted at the beginning of the session is unchangeable, it is also unchangeable and it is not allowed to include in certain points of the agenda with private channels prepared documentation and we are reading as students from the cathedral, from that place, because all of us here, as far as I know, do not have that material that you are referring to and who also said Mr Ivanić does not have. So you can't put in this agenda item material that the MPs didn't get, no matter what channels you got it from. The information to which you are invited and whose parts are read by your colleague Ljubičić cannot be the subject of discussion in this point today and you know it well, and other members of the College also know it. I object equally to all members of the College for allowing you to violate the Rules of Procedure. 19 And now I'm going back to class. So, I also like my colleague Ivanić and others who I have consulted around me, even the president of the Defence Committee, I do not have this famous material that you are calling on and I do not want to talk about. He can't be the subject of a metric in this thing today. We can look for other arguments, the reasons why someone's in, why someone's against it. I said last time there was a debate in the first reading that I was happy that someone raised the issue of resolving the social status of a group of people who did their job with honor, so they were engaged in defence. After we had reformed the defence system, they did everything they were asked to do. It is not true that at the time of the conclusion of the contract they knew what their fate would be at the end, it is not true that they have equal treatment as groups that went away earlier, past and previous years. It is not true that this is how BiH's fiscal system is hit. It is only true that for political reasons or, if you want, more polite, political, pre-election and others, we do not want to solve the issue of those people, and we have solved thousands and thousands of examples of privileged pensions, early, unearthed, etc. So, I am absolutely in favour of all arguments concerning the law of the Republic of Slovenia – I do not care at all about these laws, nor the laws of the Federation – I do not care. We are the state parliament and we are talking about state-level laws that are binding on ever lower levels. And we won't talk about it. I don't want to talk about it here. Is implementation of this law in the RS, it's a question of post-festum, not for today. You say you can't spend it if we adopt it. I don't care what the Federation says, her bodies, can she enforce this law. I claim that we are not doing any financial and fiscal blow to BiH, and that this country can and is bound by its moral conscience to execute against the people who have suffered the greatest victims of this war, many of them have already lost their health even though they are young. Therefore, with all my heart and soul, I support the proposal to amend and supplement this law and I will vote for it to be adopted today.
ParlaMint-BA_2010-09-01-0.u8312	Thank you very much. I have a replica of Mr Rajić's statement. So, Mr. Rajić, I didn't bring a private letter from my house, I quoted what it says in the letter of two ministers. If you didn't get those letters, that's why I'm not responsible. Sometimes a man can be interested in something so he can come up with something, and sometimes he doesn't care about anything, so wait for what happens. Here, look, I'm interested in making a bad decision with my vote. So, everything I said, I read official letters from two ministers. And please, it would be easier to raise my hand far and know that it can't be implemented, if it's a pre-election campaign, so in that sense, you could really think about who's raising hands for this bill because of the election campaign.
ParlaMint-BA_2010-09-01-0.u8313	May I? 20
ParlaMint-BA_2010-09-01-0.u8314	Here you go.
ParlaMint-BA_2010-09-01-0.u8315	So, Mrs. Majkić, about your hard work, I don't want to lead any controversy. I confess to you that you are persistent, that you work. But it doesn't give you the right to teach others how to work. You are a member of the College and chair of this honorable home and at the moment of the agenda you had all the materials in front of you. Tell me, did you members of the College at the moment when you determined the agenda on this wheel have this material that you're waving from the pay phone today? I say you didn't. In that sense, I dispute the right to make this material an integral part of this point today, as an argument or counterargument. I do not dispute your right to use your channels, which are very powerful with you in this country, to get all the information you want and to use them when they suit you, but only when the rest of us sitting here in this home have the same material at our disposal that we can at least track you. So that's my objection. Not on your right to use materials, but not outside your business opportunities, outside the agenda, outside the material that your fellow representatives have here. Thank you.
ParlaMint-BA_2010-09-01-0.u8316	Thank you very much. Mr. Jović. _________(?) [[no microphone turned on]] ...after Jović. _________(?) [[no microphone turned on]]
ParlaMint-BA_2010-09-01-0.u8319	I thank you, Madam Chairman. Because of the public, what I've been commenting on and reading is the material that I've received in the most common way as well as all the other materials I've received from our associate from Ms. Ceca's service. So, no special channels, for the public. This material I got in the wrapper this morning with a few more materials and I only read it before the session and used it for my comment for this session. Secondly, I also want a piece of the replica. I respect the meaning of the RS, respect the Federation, respect this Parliament, and I am aware that I am a member of the BiH Parliament. But I also believe that as a member of Parliament, I have no right to abuse my place in this House and vote for those laws that will create problems either to the Federation or to the RS. Therefore, life in this country is taking place on an entity level and they are these, according to the current state's arrangement, which solve all these problems that this parliament cannot solve. And that's why I'm not in favor of any of our laws creating obligations that are impossible to do in both the Federation and the RS.
ParlaMint-BA_2010-09-01-0.u8320	Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-BA_2010-09-01-0.u8321	/no microphone turned on/
ParlaMint-BA_2010-09-01-0.u8322	Replica? What? Business. Here you go.
ParlaMint-BA_2010-09-01-0.u8323	/no microphone turned on/
ParlaMint-BA_2010-09-01-0.u8324	A microphone, a microphone!
ParlaMint-BA_2010-09-01-0.u8325	... So, we are on the third item of the agenda: Proposal for a law supplementing the Law on Service in the Armed Forces of BiH, second reading, Proposer: The House of Representatives. The material for this item of the agenda is the accompanying act, the accompanying act by the Representative's House of Representative Niko Lozančić, the text of the law with an explanation and the opinion of the committee responsible for the second reading. It's material, official material for this agenda point, what we all have and what we need to have. And these other materials, and mentioned by my colleague Ljubičić, all of them, yes, it is material but with the Defence Commission that was held two days ago. And that's one of the information that we received, as well as some other information we discussed, but it's not an integral part of it as a material for this item of the agenda, but it's from the session of this committee, the Joint Defence and Security Commission from two days ago that wasn't included... as agenda points for today's session. Here, thank you.
ParlaMint-BA_2010-09-01-0.u8326	Mr. Jović, finally. 22 Ivo Miro
ParlaMint-BA_2010-09-01-0.u8327	It's not too late. It's good to see you preside as a woman. I wish there were more women in our institutions, here we are in pre-election time, even in other institutions to see how it is in the House of Peoples. And since you took the part, I congratulate you.
ParlaMint-BA_2010-09-01-0.u8328	Thank you very much. Ivo Miro
ParlaMint-BA_2010-09-01-0.u8329	:... And before, as always, I would like to welcome the other two members of the College, my distinguished colleagues and all those present here today at this session. I must say the first sentence immediately that I will be and support the bill. And the reason? Made in a dilemma whether to make another new mistake or to correct at least something to correct towards the people who are participants of the war, these difficult times that we've all been going through, I'd only remind two segments. The first thing we had in the Federation was a situation that they were decisions with a legal force worth 15 days, if the man where he heard or saw or read, so he checked in and he got some benefits. The one who wasn't at the time couldn't even make it happen. The latest game around these people we also have... in one law that people with early retirement, and war participants, we have that the law is federal until May 1st. The government, however, is deciding that this is only valid until February 27th. And on the one hand, you have the law, and on the other hand, the government's decision, and that stronger decision than the law that's in force. And who knows how many persons remain deprived of the rights provided by that law. It goes in favor of my decision that this is an attempt to at least one number of people allow some kind of, what-what, care at this point, because some of them have remained without pay since February, no one has invited them and said that something can be done for them. As far as I know, this is both the first and only way and that someone has thought to do it unlike countries like Spain or Italy, where such a case cannot happen. Why? Because when you sign a contract, people who sign contracts and members of those countries' armed forces know from 35 years old, if they're warriors, they won't stay on the street. It was possible to react there long before, to see these people given to security services, because they are people at the best of their lives. It could also be seen in other segments, on their retraining, on their qualification, offering certain their activities and activities in some areas of life for which they are qualified. However, all this remains only at the conclusion that these people have signed a contract and that they have to end it. Also, I would like to remind you that a large number of people, at least in the Federation, who were members of the Federation's Armed Forces with only six thousand marks of severance, may have had a few months until the conditions of retirement were met, but with six thousand marks fired from the army. And surely today they and their families are a social problem in certain environments. These are the reasons that led me to say that at least this category of people in this way we help them acquire their right to legal retirement. 23
ParlaMint-BA_2010-09-01-0.u8330	Thank you very much. Is anyone else picking up? Mr. Koprivica. Excuse me, Mrs. Čolo up, sorry.
ParlaMint-BA_2010-09-01-0.u8331	Thank you, Chairman. I'm left with some misunderstandings, believe me, when you were talking, and here I read the explanation of this law. The law came from the House of Representatives. So the House of Representatives didn't mean the opinion you're talking about. Niko of us got that opinion except the SNSD delegates, so, and that's a little symptomatic of me, and I'm asking our sekretarijat: Why are we being denied an opinion that, according to what you said, is relevant for making our decision? I don't have any doubts about how I'm going to vote for this bill, but I have a dilemma about an argument. Because you mentioned some numbers that don't stand here. I believe that this economic analysis that has come under this law, means, contained in the reasoning of the law, is a reliable analysis,... The House of Representatives sent it to us. It says here that 1,600,000 marks are to be allocated on an annual basis, that 1,400,000 marks will be saved in order to hire young soldiers who do not need to be allocated some funds that are being allocated for the time being. And I'm interested in how you get 10 million on the annual level? Is that where you read this paper? And how did you get a figure of about hundreds of millions or thousands, I don't know what you said in the coming years? Thank you.
ParlaMint-BA_2010-09-01-0.u8332	Not to explain, you need to take a letter from the Ministry of Finance and the Department of Defense and solve all the dilemmas. IVO
ParlaMint-BA_2010-09-01-0.u8333	No microphone turned on
ParlaMint-BA_2010-09-01-0.u8334	So, please, the gentleman present was giving at the House of Representatives completely different from what Minister Vrankić signed. So please don't make a circus here right now. So we need a memo to read that...
ParlaMint-BA_2010-09-01-0.u8335	/no microphone turned on/
ParlaMint-BA_2010-09-01-0.u8336	Here you go. 24
ParlaMint-BA_2010-09-01-0.u8337	Thank you very much for your word. So I simply asked to try to remove a problem that might be a precedent for us in this House, in our home. I argue, so I have now checked this with Mr Tihić, none of the members of the College in official form, nor do I see from colleagues here from the House of Peoples now, neither is the act of Minister Vrankić nor the act of Minister Cikotić. And I wouldn't be in favour of opening a discussion about acts we haven't officially received before. I don't prevent someone from making sure some materials come up, but we've already heard this argument that we're now opening up a discussion about materials that we haven't all received and that's not part of the material for this agenda point. I think that would put us in a completely unequal position. That's why I wouldn't even be the president to give the word to the authorising officer, with all due respect, Deputy Finance Minister, that the Deputy Finance Minister is now commenting on the act of the Minister of Finance which we didn't get with the material. Be kind and spare us those inconveniences.
ParlaMint-BA_2010-09-01-0.u8338	Thank you very much. Is anyone else picking up? Here, Mr. Koprivica.
ParlaMint-BA_2010-09-01-0.u8339	Thank you, Madam Chairman. I also welcome all present to today's session. I just wanted to talk to this house for a little while. So, before us is the Proposal for a Law on Amendments and Supplements to the Service Act in the Armed Forces of BiH in the second reading. We've heard all the arguments for and against the adoption of such a law. So, we have one situation... in this home, I think, which we have for the first time when we have an official explanation and the Ministry of Finance, which negatively and expressed its negative position in writing, and we have a statement by the Council of Ministers that it is also negative that this law undermines the fiscal stability of BiH and that in practice it will not be possible to implement that law. So, for the first time, we adopt a law that has no real basis to be implemented in practice. It therefore temporarily addresses certain issues, and I think that such solutions, which involve the temporary resolution of any issue in this country, are not good and that such practice should certainly not be subject to a positive resolution and decision-making at this home. So, the introduction of any privilege in this situation, when the pension funds in BiH are empty at all levels, I don't think it's really productive, is not necessary for this country, and these are all the reasons why I am also against and I will vote against the adoption of this law. Anything else, all the other stories and these arguments we've received from individual delegates, I think they're exclusively focused in terms of pre-election campaign, and I really suggest that we don't accept this law. Thank you. 25
ParlaMint-BA_2010-09-01-0.u8340	Thank you very much. Mr. Ivanic was before.
ParlaMint-BA_2010-09-01-0.u8341	Look, I'd like to get that letter from Mr. Vrankić. With all due respect to those who said they wouldn't talk about him, I want to win. And if a man really claims it will bring down the fiscal system of BiH, I will consider whether I will vote. I mean, you have to think of me as a delegate, too. I can't hear anyone saying that what they need to bring down the fiscal system and that I'm voting. And I just want to know if it's really a man behind it and nothing else. For me, that's important information, as it matters to me, whether these people at the time they were joining the army knew they were going to retire at 35. If they knew, I wouldn't be in favor of the law. But if they didn't know, I want to be in favor of the law, because these are the fighters who deserve not to leave like, I don't know you or I don't speak differently – they're fired. People who... suffered that we were sitting here. And I want to know if they have an alternative or if they're going to be rejected, left without any compensation like none of those before that. I really can't accept it, I don't want to raise my hand for it. That's how I look for that information from Minister Vrankić, even if it is his personal opinion and to see what the argument is. Because if there's a million and 15 million here, so I'm sorry, I mean, I'm not the kind of guy who'll consciously push budget institutions into trouble either. I want to know what's true, not that they're used like this, others are used like that. I don't, I don't know, I'd like to see it so I can plead and if possible, please, I want Minister Vrankić a letter because it's important to me. If it already exists, don't be angry, but I really, Mr Filipović, think I could use it at least.
ParlaMint-BA_2010-09-01-0.u8342	I suggest we solve this problem by taking a 15-20 minute break and solving this problem. I mean, this is the answer to what you said. Here you go, Mr. Šarab.
ParlaMint-BA_2010-09-01-0.u8343	Thank you, Madam Chairman. So, dear colleague Koprivica, I'd like you to give me that paper here, so let's see what you're talking about,...it's not there. Also, here is Mr. Kasumović, so come out, Mr. Kasumović, so answer this question.
ParlaMint-BA_2010-09-01-0.u8344	It's not gonna happen.
ParlaMint-BA_2010-09-01-0.u8345	So tell us, does this thing collapse or doesn't it collapse? So the paper we have here is that it doesn't collapse, the paper we have here is that it's 0.1% of the budget, and the total budget of BiH 26 in 2010 is 1,365,889.000, and what we give these people is 0.1% of the total budget. Well, I guess those veterans deserved that much. Go ahead, Mr. Kasumović.
ParlaMint-BA_2010-09-01-0.u8346	Can we take a break of 15-20 minutes and have Mr. Ivanic get a corps of delinquents for his decision. _________(?) [[no microphone turned on]] All right, he's got a vote, and you're the rest of you are firm on how you're going to vote. Here, at fifteen to one we continue the session. [[PAUZA]]
ParlaMint-BA_2010-09-01-0.u8349	/microphone is not enabled/
ParlaMint-BA_2010-09-01-0.u8350	So, does anyone else come forward for a word about this agenda point? No, I don't. I'm closing the debate. We vote. Who is "for" the proposal for a law supplementing the Law on Service in the Armed Forces of BiH in a second reading? Nine, ten. Who Is “against ”? Three. Who is “abstained ”? One. So we don't have an entity majority. There's a match. Could there be a match? We're going to the second round. Who is "for" the bill? Who Is “against ”? Who is “abstained ”? So, this law has passed. Moving to the next point: 27 Ad. 4. Proposal for a Law amending the Law on Administrative Disputes of Bosnia and Herzegovina (second reading), Proposer: Council of Ministers of BiH This is a second reading. The second reading discusses amendments that have not yet been made. You've received a report from the Constitutional Legal Commission. The Commission adopted the draft law in the proposed text. The House of Representatives finished the job and passed this law. Mr. Jović, is there any need for any comment on this point, since there has been no amendment. Ivo Miro
ParlaMint-BA_2010-09-01-0.u8352	: Since these record as many times as you call, here I'll just say...
ParlaMint-BA_2010-09-01-0.u8353	But there's no notebook. Ivo Miro
ParlaMint-BA_2010-09-01-0.u8354	I only convey that we were unanimous on this committee and that is what we propose to Dom.
ParlaMint-BA_2010-09-01-0.u8355	I'm opening a debate. Who's answering for a word? Niko. I'm closing the debate. We're voting on the bill. Who is “for ” this law? Unanimity. I find that the Law amending the Law on Administrative Disputes of BiH was adopted in the same text as at the House of Representatives. We're going to point five, Ad. 5. Proposal to amend and supplement the Code of Conduct of MPs and delegates in the Parliamentary Assembly of BiH (second reading), Proposer: Joint Commission for Human Rights, Rights of the Child, Youth, Immigration, Refugees, Asylum and Ethics This is also a second reading. We're having a debate on amendments and voting on the bill's proposal. You have received a report from the Joint Commission on Human Rights, Rights of the Child, Youth, Immigration, Refugees, Asylum and Ethics. The Joint Commission has accepted the amendment and supplementation of the Code of Conduct of MPs and delegates in the Parliamentary Assembly. The House of Representatives adopted the Code of Conduct. 28 I give the word to the First Vice-President of the Joint Commission. The nettles.
ParlaMint-BA_2010-09-01-0.u8357	Thank you, Madam Chairman. Well, here, I don't think there's any special explanation. So, the Joint Commission submitted a report on the amendment and addition of the Code of Conduct of MPs and delegates to the BiH Parliamentary Assembly that you received in writing. We need to make a statement today, I have renewed the amendment to the Amendment to the Amendment and the Supplement of the Code where Chapter I proposes to delete this chapter with an explanation that the existing Code provides for a 50% penalty, which is sufficient regulation when it comes to the procedure of giving a fine. And therefore, we need to make a statement on this amendment and finally on the proposed amendments and additions to the Code. If there are any questions, I'm here to answer them, but I don't think there's any need.
ParlaMint-BA_2010-09-01-0.u8358	Thank you very much. I'm opening a discussion. Who's answering for a word? Mr. Rajić.
ParlaMint-BA_2010-09-01-0.u8359	Thank you, Madam Chairman. I am obliged to show myself again because, of course, I will vote against the amendments and addition of the Code, in other words, I will support this amendment by Mr. Koprivica, not because it makes me feel any discomfort or touches my rights, for principled reasons I will vote every time I am here against everything that is related to the Code because I voted against its adoption. Therefore, it is a principled attitude. We don't need the code as imposed on us, it's unproductive, humiliating and anti-civilizing. That's why I'm every time it comes to the Code of Conduct of Representatives against it. And again I repeat my claim, the Codex learns at home or never learns in life. Thank you.
ParlaMint-BA_2010-09-01-0.u8360	Thank you very much. Who's next to answer the word? There are no reports. We're voting on gospodin Koprivica's amandman I.. Prepare to vote. Who is "for" Mr. Koprivica's Amendment? 13. Who Is “against ”? One "Sustained"? One vote “maintained. ” Then it's 12. With 12 votes "for", one "tenable" and one "against", gospodin Koprivica's amandman was adopted. 29 Now we vote on the amendment and the addition of the Code. Please make a statement. Who Is For? Same thing, that's 12 votes "yes". Who Is “against ”? Two “against. ” Who is “abstained ”? _________(?) [[no microphone turned on]] What? _________(?) [[no microphone turned on]]
ParlaMint-BA_2010-09-01-0.u8363	Four “sustained. ”
ParlaMint-BA_2010-09-01-0.u8364	Please raise your cards. Who is “abstained ”? Two “maintained. ”
ParlaMint-BA_2010-09-01-0.u8365	Four... Branko...
ParlaMint-BA_2010-09-01-0.u8366	One, two, three, four. "Sustained" four votes. Who Is “against ”? Two. That's six. And now there are, how many of us are there?
ParlaMint-BA_2010-09-01-0.u8367	14
ParlaMint-BA_2010-09-01-0.u8368	14. ... _________(?) [[no microphone turned on]] We're not 15, you see? 12 and 2 is 14. 30 Eight is “for”, two is “against ” and four“ abstentions. ” _________(?) [[no microphone turned on]]
ParlaMint-BA_2010-09-01-0.u8371	Mr. Jović.
ParlaMint-BA_2010-09-01-0.u8372	What?
ParlaMint-BA_2010-09-01-0.u8373	Mr. Jović.
ParlaMint-BA_2010-09-01-0.u8374	Jović. From the Bosniak Club?
ParlaMint-BA_2010-09-01-0.u8375	Alma Čolo.
ParlaMint-BA_2010-09-01-0.u8376	Cholo. From the Serbian Club?
ParlaMint-BA_2010-09-01-0.u8377	It's a hive.
ParlaMint-BA_2010-09-01-0.u8378	It's a hive. 31 We vote for the proposal: Jović, Čolo, Koprivica. Who Is For? Who Is “against ”? Who is “abstained ”? Unanimity. It's point six. Ad. Six. Proposal for a law on international and inter-entity road transport (first reading), Proposer: Council of Ministers of BiH This is the first reading of the bill. Therefore, in accordance with Article 100, a debate is first held on the necessity and principles on which the proposal for a law is based. You have received the opinion of the Commission for Foreign and Trade Policy, Customs, Transport and Communications. The Commission supported the principles of the proposed law and proposed that it be adopted to the House. The House of Representatives ended the work, passed the bill in the first reading. I give the word to the chairman, Mrs. Čolo, if he needs to say something, especially from the point of view of that conclusion... to whom the deadline has expired practically.
ParlaMint-BA_2010-09-01-0.u8380	Here, given that the law was intended for consideration at that session that was postponed, now this conclusion makes no sense, but here I can say something brief about the law. We had one dilemma on this commission; this law was discussed in the first reading in July on our commission, we had a dilemma because the Opinion of the Directorate for European Integration has been obtained, which said that not all directives and regulations of the Council of the EU have been respected, meaning that no transposition of all relevant provisions of the communal law relating to this law into the text of the law has been carried out. However, representatives of the resolution ministry claim that all international documents relating to this area are fully respected. In light of the legislation, which was subsequently arrived (we did not have a session on the basis of the law), it states that the law is in line with three EU Council Regulations, with two directives and with one international contract. And here, I suggest that we try in this amendment phase, if there are any misunderstandings regarding the harmonisation of the law with the relevant provisions of European legislation, to remove it through the amendments. Thank you.
ParlaMint-BA_2010-09-01-0.u8381	Thank you very much. I'm opening a debate. 32 Who Answers the Word? Niko. I'm closing the debate. We're voting on the bill's proposal in the first reading. Who Is For? Is there anyone “against ”? Since there are no "abstained" votes, then unanimously. So, the conclusion of this committee will not be made because it is no longer current. Point 7. Ad. Seven. Confirmation of Decision on sending members of Bosnia and Herzegovina's Armed Forces to the International Security Assistance Force (ISAF) mission in the Islamic Republic of Afghanistan In accordance with Article 6. Law on the participation of members of the Armed Forces of BiH, police officers, civil servants and other employees in peace support operations and other activities abroad, BiH Presidency is 27. This year 7 submitted this decision for confirmation. You've been given the opinion of the Joint Defence and Security Commission. The Joint Defence and Security Commission has adopted this decision and is proposing to the BiH Parliamentary Assembly its confirmation. The House of Representatives has already made such a decision. I give my word to the chairman of the Joint Commission, Branko Zrn, if need be.
ParlaMint-BA_2010-09-01-0.u8383	There's no need.
ParlaMint-BA_2010-09-01-0.u8384	Thank you very much. I'm opening a discussion. Mr. Šaraba answered his word.
ParlaMint-BA_2010-09-01-0.u8385	Thank you, Madam Chairman. So today we need to confirm an extremely significant decision, but before confirming it, I would like to have a representative of the Ministry, in accordance with Article 4. The law on the participation of BiH Armed Forces members in peace support operations, that one explanation of the security aspect of sending members of the Armed Forces to this peacekeeping mission. I believe that this security aspect at this point is extremely important and important, and I would like someone to come out here publicly and to confirm this security aspect, because it is one of the parts of the decision contained in this proposal. What's written here is an extraordinary hoot and I personally don't get 33 satisfied. So I'd like to hear a broader explanation of this security aspect of sending members of the Armed Forces to this extremely dangerous mission. Thank you.
ParlaMint-BA_2010-09-01-0.u8386	Thank you very much. Mr. Šarab, I'm sorry that you're asking that you're a member of the Defense Commission, and that question could have been required and delayed, if you needed to ask to postpone the decision on the plea, because indeed, I thought that that's why Mr. Zrna didn't need to speak, and that's why we told it all. So, I don't see here who would answer that question and therefore I ask Mr. Zrn again, no matter what he just said he didn't have, to say something about it, if he can part of this question...
ParlaMint-BA_2010-09-01-0.u8387	Please, Mrs. Majkić, so I didn't ask my esteemed colleague, so he asked only the Ministry's representative, I guess one of the ministry's representatives is here.
ParlaMint-BA_2010-09-01-0.u8388	There's no one here from the Ministry's representative, as far as I can tell. What do we do now, not make a decision about it?
ParlaMint-BA_2010-09-01-0.u8389	Can I just add, I mean, my colleague's request is legitimate. However, the fact is that this is not a proposal from the Ministry but is a proposal from the Presidency so that, and that they are here, I am not sure whether we could respond to the request put forward, although it is absolutely legitimate this and we have spent quite a lot of time talking about this aspect on this committee, I am thinking about this aspect of sending, not only to Afghanistan, but to any service outside the country of the Armed Forces.
ParlaMint-BA_2010-09-01-0.u8390	Thank you very much. He's a colleague of Šaraba.
ParlaMint-BA_2010-09-01-0.u8391	So, I find this extremely irresponsible and irresponsible that no one here has either the Ministry nor the Presidency, nor anyone has to answer this significant question. We're going to put 50 people on this mission tomorrow and this kind of scum, so this was the same thing on this committee, and we couldn't get any explanation. I find this extremely, extremely irresponsible, irresponsible to approach one of these decisions in this way and not give an explanation at 34 all points that is requested here. So here I think he was supposed to be a complete team who should give an explanation.
ParlaMint-BA_2010-09-01-0.u8392	I remind the House that the point is called: "Confirmation of the decision to refer members of the Armed Forces." So, the confirmation based on the gutter brought by the Presidency. Is anyone else answering for word? No, I don't. We can approach the vote. Who is "for" this item of the agenda? Who Is “against ”? One. So with 13 votes "yes" and one vote "against" the decision on sending members of the BiH Armed Forces to the ISAF mission to Afghanistan was confirmed. Point 8. Ad. 8. Appointment of members of the DTT Forum Expert Commission (the BiH Ministry of Communications and Transport material) The Ministry of Communications and Transport is 13. Seven. In 2010, an act stating that, in accordance with Article 8(1) and (2) of the Decision amending the Decision on the continuation of the Forum's work on digital terrestrial television, BiH, the Parliamentary Assembly appointed three representatives. The House of Representatives named Husein Nanić and Branko Dokić as members of the DTT Forum's Professional Commission. A member should be appointed home to the DTT Forum Expert Commission. Any suggestions for this member? Is anyone answering for a word? Here you go.
ParlaMint-BA_2010-09-01-0.u8394	Given the selection of members from the House of Representatives, we should choose here
ParlaMint-BA_2010-09-01-0.u8395	Croatian member.
ParlaMint-BA_2010-09-01-0.u8396	Yes, a representative of the Croatian people. We three members of this club propose Ivo Miro Jović. Thank you very much. 35
ParlaMint-BA_2010-09-01-0.u8397	Thank you very much. Any other suggestions? There isn't. We can get to the bottom of this. Who is the "for" proposal for Mr Ivo Miro Jović to be the third member to come from the House of Peoples? Who Is For? _________(?) /not a microphone turned on/ He has appointed a representative home, and only one member should be appointed to the House of Nations. It has been said that it is the responsibility of the House to appoint its member, and the House of Representatives has completed its two. Who Is For? Please, who's "for"? Who Is “against ”? There isn't. Unanimity, 14. _________(?) [[microphone is not enabled]]
ParlaMint-BA_2010-09-01-0.u8400	I just want to make sure that, in accordance with Article 8(1) point (b) we make the appointment where it stands, that the Parliamentary Assembly of BiH appoints three representatives. I just want us to have legally appointed people. Thank you.
ParlaMint-BA_2010-09-01-0.u8401	But then we have an obligation to confirm Ivo mir Jović's predstavnički of Representatives that will no longer meet in this meeting. So we leave it open then. Of the three members of the House of People chooses one and we will give one. 36 _________(?) [[no microphone turned on]] Well, here, we can vote on one. Let's get to the bottom of our proposal first. So the second is to confirm all three members. Who is it that these three members are part of the DTT Forum? Unanimity. Point 9. Ad. Nine. Change in the conclusion of the House of Peoples with the 47th session, held 24. Six. In 2010, in connection with the borrowing of Deputy Minister of Security Mije Krešić to serve as acting director of the Agency for the Prevention of Corruption and Co-ordination of the fight against corruption
ParlaMint-BA_2010-09-01-0.u8407	Here, you said we accepted the rank list. There were eight candidates who applied to the competition. The procedure under the law is that at least a double number of candidates are proposed in the rank list. A candidate is elected instead of Mrs. Putica, who stands out for the term of office on September 7th, means in a few days. These three candidates have been proposed and we have decided to forward the list to the House for a statement as proposed.
ParlaMint-BA_2010-09-01-0.u8408	Thank you very much. I'm opening a debate. Who's answering for a word? Mr Ivo Miro Jović. Ivo Miro
ParlaMint-BA_2010-09-01-0.u8409	Thank you very much, Madam President. We have before us a proposal of an institution chosen by a member of the Management Board, which is also made up, and based on relevant indicators and what the candidates have shown in the competition. That list has also been confirmed by our commission. That is why I call on our home to accept the proposed list and with the first proposal as proposed by both the institution and our commission to accept Mrs. Lasić as a member of the Management Board.
ParlaMint-BA_2010-09-01-0.u8410	Thank you very much. Mr. Božo Rajić.
ParlaMint-BA_2010-09-01-0.u8411	/not a microphone turned on/
ParlaMint-BA_2010-09-01-0.u8412	A microphone, sir.
ParlaMint-BA_2010-09-01-0.u8413	... It's again about trying to misinterpret material facts. So, Mrs. Čolo, who is the chairman of this committee, made it clear that it is a legal obligation to deliver at least double the number of candidates to the selection body and is not at issue here in the order. So it doesn't mean that it's written on 1st, 2nd, 3rd, that it's the order but that it's to be held. So this is a completely wrong interpretation. We have here a decision of the House of Representatives who has chosen already a representative from the Croatian people in the person Mari Pejić and I call on the representatives, if we want to do our job by conscience and 39 according to what we have already solved in another home, to choose the same candidate they chose in another home. Ivo Miro
ParlaMint-BA_2010-09-01-0.u8414	/not a microphone turned on/
ParlaMint-BA_2010-09-01-0.u8415	Thank you very much. Here you go. Ivo Miro
ParlaMint-BA_2010-09-01-0.u8416	I'd just like to read what it says. The regulatory agency delivered the rank list, not the list, but the rank list. Therefore, the first-named on the ranking list is Miss Lasić. Secondly, our commission accepted the rank list, and it didn't accept the list in the set so that we could make a statement about it, but it accepted the rang-lista list. And in that sense, I urge that we remain in principle, that the first-ranking be appointed by the House. And here is Miss Lasić's first name from both our commission and the Regulatory Agency.
ParlaMint-BA_2010-09-01-0.u8417	Thank you very much. Is anyone else picking up? No, I don't. I'm closing the debate. We vote first on the appointment of the first from the list: Maja Lasić. Who Is For?
ParlaMint-BA_2010-09-01-0.u8418	Excuse me, business. Who's proposing this point? When's the proposer? Is it the House of Representatives?
ParlaMint-BA_2010-09-01-0.u8419	Never mind, we do.
ParlaMint-BA_2010-09-01-0.u8420	Well, then we vote. If the Proposer is a House of Representatives, then we plead first on his proposal, not on the proposal of this...
ParlaMint-BA_2010-09-01-0.u8421	Communications Regulatory Agency. 40
ParlaMint-BA_2010-09-01-0.u8422	It's the procedure. If the promoter is a House of Representatives, then we first declare the candidate the House of Representatives has proposed.
ParlaMint-BA_2010-09-01-0.u8423	Please let's make a statement. Ivo Miro
ParlaMint-BA_2010-09-01-0.u8424	/not a microphone turned on/
ParlaMint-BA_2010-09-01-0.u8425	Here you go. Ivo Miro
ParlaMint-BA_2010-09-01-0.u8426	: Are we equal homes or are we not? That's what I'm asking us all. How come now that one House is proposing something proposed by the Agency and our commission? I can't understand that. How can he take charge of the promoter's second home? That would be a real precedent. And let's not play with that. We have before us the meaning of the Rang-list of the Regulatory Agency which has been sent to us for a plea, and our commission which also requires that we plead with it. I don't see anything here in the material, a proposal from the House about what you're talking about. I don't think we're getting into that part, not playing here. There's no Home proposal in the material.
ParlaMint-BA_2010-09-01-0.u8427	My kolegica Čolo.
ParlaMint-BA_2010-09-01-0.u8428	I am obliged to make an explanation in front of this committee. The Commission did not vote on the order of candidates. We've accepted the list as it was submitted, sent it to the House, and we're not taking over the ingenuity of the House. It's home that decides which candidate to choose.
ParlaMint-BA_2010-09-01-0.u8429	So, only by voting will we see it. Here you go. Ivo Miro
ParlaMint-BA_2010-09-01-0.u8430	I need to intervene.
ParlaMint-BA_2010-09-01-0.u8431	Go ahead, sir. 41 Ivo Miro
ParlaMint-BA_2010-09-01-0.u8432	Let's not make this a miracle. I really can't accept this interpretation. I can see clearly in the Committee's opinion that he accepts the rank list. Therefore, it accepted Miss Lasić as the candidate. Don't try to twist what you've decided now.
ParlaMint-BA_2010-09-01-0.u8433	Is there anyone else? Is there anyone else here to say a word?
ParlaMint-BA_2010-09-01-0.u8434	I do. I have a line to... Mr. Jović. So Mr. Jović keeps trying to make us think he thinks. The commission has declared the rank of the list as a whole. It's accepted without investing in how the House will decide. Therefore, no one can say that this commission is bound to ask Dom to vote for the first candidate. No, we're delivering you a list of three people. Here you go. So, it's the only fair and correct interpretation of the Rules of Procedure, everything else is an act of violence towards the Rules of Procedure. I call upon the College to protect the integrity of this home and its work by applying the Rules of Procedure.
ParlaMint-BA_2010-09-01-0.u8435	So, I mean really, I don't know where this is gonna get us. Ivo Miro
ParlaMint-BA_2010-09-01-0.u8436	"Don't make me think or think of anything. I'm just reading and nothing else.
ParlaMint-BA_2010-09-01-0.u8437	You're a bad reader. Ivo Miro
ParlaMint-BA_2010-09-01-0.u8438	: You put on glasses, I don't have a need, I'll just read then, I'm forced to read that our commission unanimously accepts the rank-list. Are we clear on what the Rang-lista-list is? If it wasn't for this, then I'd be silent, but this is a commission, I'm saying that we have two documents of our commission and we have another document from the Regulatory Agency that also explicitly says that it's delivering the rank-list. And I have nothing to think about or think about, I'm just reading what it says here. And we plead today and on the agenda on the rank-list.
ParlaMint-BA_2010-09-01-0.u8439	No, we choose members. Ivo Miro
ParlaMint-BA_2010-09-01-0.u8440	/not a microphone turned on/
ParlaMint-BA_2010-09-01-0.u8441	Please, if there's any need to take a break for the two of you. 42
ParlaMint-BA_2010-09-01-0.u8442	No need, no need, just let me say what I have right now, so if you want to take a break. So, in order to avoid abuse and false interpretation of the Rules of Procedure, and you keep silent both at the table there, I call you again - do not allow the breach of the Rules of Procedure. You do what you want, I can't oblige you otherwise, but I warn you to violate the Rules of Procedure. And to avoid misunderstandings, I am now using my right as a representative and I propose as a candidate in this body of Mr. Mario Pejić, so you vote in any order you want. That's my candidate, I suggest, you'll have to make a statement about it.
ParlaMint-BA_2010-09-01-0.u8443	Mr. Rajić, can you read that article we're breaking the Rules of Procedure?
ParlaMint-BA_2010-09-01-0.u8444	/not a microphone turned on/
ParlaMint-BA_2010-09-01-0.u8445	Come on, is there anyone else here for a word? No, I don't. Ivo Miro
ParlaMint-BA_2010-09-01-0.u8446	I have a need.
ParlaMint-BA_2010-09-01-0.u8447	No need. Ivo Miro
ParlaMint-BA_2010-09-01-0.u8448	: Please, just a few points ago we had an interpretation here not to discuss what is not in the material. I don't have a House of Representatives decision here in the material. Which Rules of Procedure are we talking about? So come on, let's be consistent!
ParlaMint-BA_2010-09-01-0.u8449	Thank you very much. I'm closing the debate on this agenda point and we're going to vote. Number one. Maja Lasić. Who is "for" the name Maja Lasić to plead? How much is that? Seven. Is there enough Federation? Four. Enough. Who Is “against ”? Six “against. ” Who is “abstained ”? One “abstained. ” We don't have a general majority. 43
ParlaMint-BA_2010-09-01-0.u8450	He doesn't have a general majority.
ParlaMint-BA_2010-09-01-0.u8451	Let's go to... _________(?) It didn't pass. It didn't pass, but we'll go to the next one, number two. Mario Pejić. Who Is For? Six. ‘Non’? Six votes "against". "Sustained"? Two. Same again. And below 3. Josip Dolić. Who Is For? No "yes" votes. Who Is “against ”? Who is “abstained ”? There's not a single vote. No Niko's been through. Nothing, it remains that we have chosen neither person from the list delivered by the Communications Regulatory Agency. So, it stays until further Marija Putica. And now here I need to take a break and say that, as you are informed from the media, the National Assembly session is scheduled for 7 September and that after the decision of the National Assembly a new session will be scheduled to be held at which we will declare the Bill on the List of Populations, Households and Apartments in BiH. That would be the end of this session. Thank you very much. _________(?) /not a microphone turned on/
ParlaMint-BA_2010-09-01-0.u8454	Excuse me, business.
ParlaMint-BA_2010-09-01-0.u8455	College decision, we don't open a debate. 44 [[Common discussion]]
ParlaMint-BA_2010-09-01-0.u8456	It can't be done with that explanation.
ParlaMint-BA_2010-09-01-0.u8457	You don't have that authority. I'm looking for a word.
ParlaMint-BA_2010-09-01-0.u8458	Here you go.
ParlaMint-BA_2010-09-01-0.u8459	So, the Honorable Chairman, here you are today several times committing a violation of the Rules of Procedure or of the Lapsus. Whether it's on purpose or because you don't see it or not, it doesn't matter. And here you are, in the end, trying to finish a session against the Constitution and against the Rules of Procedure, which you have no right to. You must abide by the Constitution, of course and the Rules of Procedure. You did this the last time you stopped and opened a session of the House of People, when you yourself without opening a session, in the obvious of all of us present, gave your word, went out, said a few words and told the end of the story. You didn't open the session, you didn't give the opportunity, you didn't give the agenda, you didn't, you didn't, you just went out and said something private like that and left the session. And this time you're trying to do it. So it's anti-business. As House, we adopted this agenda and I ask you nicely to complete this session in one of the ways that the Rules of Procedure predicted. So, we have the last item of the agenda, we have the law, we know exactly what it's called, as you've led these other points from 1 to 27, I beg you, and you're obliged to say, I'm opening the agenda point, first, second reading, we have the position of this, that competent body, the commission, and I'm opening the debate, as we've been doing, and that's your obligation, the chairman. Otherwise everything else is a violation of the Rules of Procedure and the Constitution from you, and you have no right to do so.
ParlaMint-BA_2010-09-01-0.u8460	Is anyone else picking up my word before I give it to myself? Here you go.
ParlaMint-BA_2010-09-01-0.u8461	Dear colleagues and colleagues, therefore, I must speak out of courtesy of our conversation at the College. The request was for Mrs Dušanka Majkić not to be included in the agenda at all. We, and Mr. Tihić and I, were in favour of respecting the Rules of Procedure, because it is a mandatory item of the agenda that we cannot leave out so that it does not enter the agenda. With the long debates before today's College and telephone talks, we managed to agree on the agenda and leave this item on the agenda by compromise by accepting Mrs. Majkić's proposal to make it the last item of the agenda, because she would still be discussing that agenda point when she had the position of the entity Assembly of the RS. So, we agreed to the College and this morning discussing this issue to make it so. In that sense and therefore this is the last item of the agenda to do all these very important, and this is a very important point, but to do all these conditions; there were four or five points of great importance here with which the 45 House of People is too late in relation to the House of Representatives, and one of them is meeting the condition of the visa-free regime for the citizens of this country. So, nothing asked Mrs. Majkić... with which he did not agree with the College of the House of Peoples. If Mrs. Majkić is looking for what she is asking to wait for the RS National Assembly to decide on this issue, then it can be discussed.
ParlaMint-BA_2010-09-01-0.u8462	Thank you very much. Who's next? Mr. Tihić.
ParlaMint-BA_2010-09-01-0.u8463	You see, in determining today's agenda, I have made it clear that I object to the postponement of the session, I object to removing this item from the agenda for the reason that it should wait for the decision of the National Assembly of the Republic of Slovenia, because I believe that this would be one precedent in the current parliamentary practice and this home and at all Parliament of BiH, because tomorrow, by some other points of the agenda, this issue could be reopened – the postponement of the sessions until it was declared, I don't know, the House of Representatives of the Federation, the National Assembly of the RS, so that I am not in favour of taking this point off the agenda and leaving it and waiting for the decision of the National Assembly of the RS. I'm looking for, what Mr. Rančić said, to open the agenda point and to go as the Rules of Procedure predicted.
ParlaMint-BA_2010-09-01-0.u8464	I give myself my word.
ParlaMint-BA_2010-09-01-0.u8465	I've called before.
ParlaMint-BA_2010-09-01-0.u8466	Yeah, I'm sorry. Here you go, Professor Neimarlija.
ParlaMint-BA_2010-09-01-0.u8467	I am expressing the most decisive protest over the arguments offered by the chairman of this House as a reason to interrupt the session or postpone this part of the session. The College had the right to agree, and I would accept and accept the decision and the College to terminate and effectively postpone the session, but in no case can I accept the private explanation of which Mrs Majkić, as a delegate in the House of People, has the right, that she is privately bound by the position of the National Assembly of the Republic of Slovenia on any issue or on a question related to the census. However, we are not representatives here, or delegates of the congregations, nor the Federation or the RS, but delegates of the Serbian, Croatian and Bosniak people, and this home is not the hostage of any of these congregations. Mrs. Majkić, too, had the right as chairman to offer us a break, to make 46 of us additionally bound by this being for political and other reasons of attitude and the College and we would manifest ourselves about it in order to manifest ourselves. However, the explanation that we interrupt the session to wait for the position of the National Assembly of the Republic of Slovenia is both anti-constitutional and anti-Daytonic, because we are not delegates of the Federation Assembly, who chose us as delegates of the Bošnjak and Hrvat from the Federation area, nor are we delegates of the National Assembly of the Republic of Slovenia, even under the Constitution of the Republic of Slovenia, but rather of the Serb people elected in the National Assembly of the RS. I therefore consider the argument a direct attack on the constitutional principles that should apply to the work of this house. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-BA_2010-09-01-0.u8468	Thank you very much. Is anyone else picking up? Here you go.
ParlaMint-BA_2010-09-01-0.u8469	Thank you. I apologize for being involved in the ongoing debate, but the situation is clear here. In fact, at this point, the Constitution of BiH is defended, and as an envoy of the Croatian people, I would like to say that the constitutional position of the constituent peoples here is defended, especially from the point of view of the position of the Croatian people in entities that are not equal, not at the level of the Parliamentary Assembly of BiH, but certainly better than at entity level. For us it would be a constitutional precedent and an absurd and unacceptable situation if we were formally dependent in any way in our work on the decisions of the entity congregations. Therefore, we can discuss the mass of other reasons why a point should be delayed or not delayed, we can make an argument, but the argument that we should wait for our decision-making of entity parliaments I, as a representative of the Croatian people in this House, do not accept. Therefore, I suggest that we continue in the agenda and in the debate and in the decision-making process, make decisions as this house is able to make.
ParlaMint-BA_2010-09-01-0.u8470	Thank you very much. I give myself my word. So we can have different opinions on this, but the delegates in the order of the Serb people have been elected by the National Assembly and we need to listen to its position on the large political issues discussed in this House. You can have the opposite political attitude. I tried to keep the law current and wait for that attitude so that we could make a decision easier. If there is no readiness, I must inform you that we will not, the delegates of the Serbian people will not make a quorum at this point in the agenda and that we will leave the session. I'm asking you to have an understanding of that because it's not because we want it and we want it, but because it's our obligation. Thank you very much. Mr. Rančić. 47
ParlaMint-BA_2010-09-01-0.u8471	I have a replica of your presentation, the Honorable Chairman. When you are elected, therefore, it is indisputable to elect delegates of any of us 15, and it is known to be the National Assembly of the RS and the House of the Peoples of the Federation, but you cannot draw the wrong conclusions you have just spoken of. The story of this law lasts for several months and anyone who was serious and who cared about the adoption of the law could consult with whom he wanted and could build his position, whether he was like this or not. But that's not the point. We had this law, your representatives were in the task force. We had our first reading at the House of Representatives where the law passed. We had our first reading in this house, so it's over. So we had an amendment phase. So we had another reading at the House of Representatives, so it passed there. And so, at the last step, you dispute the law, the way you did last time, a month ago. So, when they choose you, both you and us, and any of us, we give a solemn statement that we will respect the Constitution and that we will implement both the Constitution and the entire positive system of our country, not in a way that will block our Constitution and block the work of BiH institutions. What you did last time was you deliberately left this house and stopped, so you stopped the session from happening. So your right and obligation, as well as mine and all of us here 15, is to attend to work and institutions are set up to do something, not to prevent anything from being done. You have violated the Dayton Peace Agreement, you have violated the Constitution because you have violently prevented the functioning of this house, you are preventing the work of the BiH Parliamentary Assembly from leaving, you have also prevented the work of the Council of Ministers and other institutions that have co-ordination with Parliament, and in the first row of the Council of Ministers because they propose, and you have prevented BiH from going to NATO and the EU, because you are preventing the work of two main institutions. Is that what you want again? Are you telling us again? So, do you think you can prevent the work of Parliament and the Council of Ministers? This is the abuse of the structure and the decision-making method prescribed by the Constitution and the Rules of Procedure and your conduct is the best proof of the need for full and essential constitutional reforms, so BiH and all its institutions, and all three peoples who are constitutional, and they need to be equal, but there is no one right to be the hostage of the other just because he wanted it. Thank you.
ParlaMint-BA_2010-09-01-0.u8472	Here you go.
ParlaMint-BA_2010-09-01-0.u8473	Thank you for your word. So, I don't want to arbitration, I don't want to light a fire, but I deeply respect the opinion of each of us here individually, whoever makes his point. I also respect the position of Mrs. Majkić, who I have heard, but I am terribly sorry as the hrvat of this country that I have not been in a position to ask for a few dozen times in two terms the same thing from the House of Peoples, where I sat in the last meeting, where I am sitting here, to ask to interrupt the session and to get the opinion of my entity majority Croatian parliament. I can't wait for that day when I'll have that chance. Thank you very much. 48
ParlaMint-BA_2010-09-01-0.u8474	Thank you very much. Mr. Ivanic.
ParlaMint-BA_2010-09-01-0.u8475	A little comment to Mr Filipović. At least it's our fault that you don't have that option. Ask your negotiators in Dayton. Secondly, I have to tell Mr. Rančić that I don't think it's good to convert an instrument that's legitimate. It says nicely that if there are no three representatives from the Serb people, there is no session. And what's the issue that some people want to exploit? It's not supposed to make such a spectacle, it's a simple instrument, mechanism and norm. And I think it's something that's completely normal. I don't agree with the SNSD on the law. I think they made this all a unnecessary circus. The members of the SNSD one schedule session 1, the same members of SNSD 7. to discuss what is... But I mean, I also have to say that I don't agree with the style that you're all explaining right now, you're making this story about constitutional changes about everything else. I just don't think it's necessary or anything. If I understand, the College did not accept Mrs. Majkić's proposal, which she just said you agreed to stop, or she did.
ParlaMint-BA_2010-09-01-0.u8476	Yeah, it's a deal.
ParlaMint-BA_2010-09-01-0.u8477	So if it's agreed what we're playing now? And if it is not agreed, then say it is not agreed, there are no three members of the Serb people, there is no session, let's not make any more of this election campaign now.
ParlaMint-BA_2010-09-01-0.u8478	Is anyone else picking up? Mr. Rajić.
ParlaMint-BA_2010-09-01-0.u8479	Dear colleague Ivanic!
ParlaMint-BA_2010-09-01-0.u8480	Mr. Rajić.
ParlaMint-BA_2010-09-01-0.u8481	49 [[no microphone turned on]]
ParlaMint-BA_2010-09-01-0.u8482	Thank you very much. So, respected Professor Ivanić doesn't have to agree at all, but this is how I said it. And last time there was an abuse, and this time we're being announced. The last time it was done, they didn't ask for any delay, no opinion, no consent, no college behavior, no break, no deal, nothing. It didn't even want to open the session, but came, there were representatives from the Serb people, there were several sentences, purse and bow and over. Here, we are at the 27th point, please kindly, let the chairman in accordance with the Rules of Procedure and the Constitution continue to lead this session. So either he opens the session and we discuss and vote how we vote or let him do what he thinks he should do.
ParlaMint-BA_2010-09-01-0.u8483	Replication to the gentleman's exposure... So there are mechanisms that are business-based and they are what they are. They allow everyone to do what they think is political for them. Mr. Hazim Rančić, there is not one thing this club, in the Serbian People's Club of the Three Representatives of the SNSD, would do if I didn't talk about the others, to damage anything related to the RS. And for the first time and for the last time, I'm telling you so I won't waste any more words on it. So we're not in this home free shooters. We have an obligation to obey certain rules. And when you invent a mechanism that will make it impossible for us, I will respect it. For now, the condition is what it is. So, here I can get out, let's try to keep someone else if he can without three representatives of the Serb people. So that's the mechanism at our disposal. And please don't teach us how to do it. [[Common discussion]] Mr Ibrahimpašić.
ParlaMint-BA_2010-09-01-0.u8485	Thank you, Chairman. It's not your show, but let me tell Professor Ivanic -- however you turn, this isn't going to work, this discussion outside some civilizational frameworks. It's important that we speak civilizedly and I don't think there's anything we should attack on here. We need to let this go. We're gonna end up the way we're gonna end up. But it's important to me, it's very important that we, within these civilizational norms here, talk about it. So we didn't break those standards, how you wanted to give the painting.
ParlaMint-BA_2010-09-01-0.u8486	Thank you very much, Mr. Ibrahimpašić. Here you go. 50
ParlaMint-BA_2010-09-01-0.u8487	Since the debate has already stalled on and on this very mechanism of constitutional, possibly abuse and use, I want to say something. You see, in this session, I think the SDA has been voted over once 30 times. It's probably also HDZ BiH. And we also have three delegates, and we could always feel that we could be too loud to leave the House session and there's no sitting. We've never reached for such a mechanism. The SNSD is the first time in a position to be too loud and they use the mechanism. We think it's an abuse. And just about what Mr. Ivanić said, you know, law should not be misused. If three delegates do not come for justified and semi-justified and unwarranted reasons, we cannot hold a session. But if they come here and sit down and then leave the session, I think it's, then, Mladen, abuse anyway. You see, when it comes to this part of the agenda, we're at the College talking about it. She was supposed to be in first place and so the 29th was scheduled. Since she was in first place, the SNSD delegates have retired, we haven't had any sessions at all. After that, and because of all those obligations that the House of Nations has made, we agreed that it should be in the last place, so we're kind of expecting that this rerun can be repeated again, so let's at least finish what we're bound by deadlines, which is important, visa-free regime etc. And now that we've heard some other argument, here's what Mr. Neimarlija was saying, some other reasons, not to introduce a new precedent, you know we're saying, today we're waiting for the National Assembly of the RS, and then we're going to be sitting, tomorrow, I don't know, someone else's home of federal, cantonal, etc. I don't think that reason should be used and that kind of precedent should be made. And other reasons we can discuss and respect these reasons certainly.
ParlaMint-BA_2010-09-01-0.u8488	Thank you very much. Who's next? Mr. Neimarlija seemed to have been a few times and raised his hand.
ParlaMint-BA_2010-09-01-0.u8489	/no microphone turned on/
ParlaMint-BA_2010-09-01-0.u8490	A replica, a pardon, a replica. Here you go, Mr. Mladen. Mr. Ivanic, you had a line.
ParlaMint-BA_2010-09-01-0.u8491	I thought Mr. Neimarlija was trying to say that he had a comment on me, so let me wait. Was that it? 51
ParlaMint-BA_2010-09-01-0.u8492	All right, all right.
ParlaMint-BA_2010-09-01-0.u8493	So I wouldn't repeat that the formal argument is the most convincing argument when it comes to fighting something. And I have not at all questioned the formal possibility and the right, let's say in this case of SNSD, that because there are three members, or three delegates in the House of Peoples, are using this right and that, frankly, it affects the work of this home. I didn't question the right of the College to agree to something that I wouldn't accept and which I would probably plead against, but I would respect that decision, of course. I have very explicitly protested the argument with which the chairman of this House decided to conclude today's session, and the argument is that we will continue the session after the decision of the National Assembly of the RS. I repeat, I did not question, of course, Ms. Majkić's right to respect the RS's opinions but, I repeat, it is formally her private and political right, she has formal opportunity to make it through this house affirmative, but she cannot formalise it as the chairman of the House, as a formal, formal legal argument to interrupt the session. And it is a direct attack on the constitutional principles on which this home and its work rest. Because we're not hostages, we're not subordinates, we're not a lower authority, we're not an organ of the National Assembly of the RS or the Federation Assembly. We are the House of Peoples, I repeat, who make up the delegates of the Serbian people, the Croatian people and the Bosniak people. We are not even delegates to the Federation, I repeat, under the Constitution, please, the Federation or the RS, which Mrs. Majkić said again. So, I'm expressing protest over the use of anti-dayton and anti-constitutional arguments by the chairman of the House today as a reason to interrupt the session. I'm asking, if the College... has agreed to interrupt the session, to invite us to make a statement about the College's proposal, not even for reasons, because we all know the reasons more or less, but that the session ends with anti-Daytonal, anti-constitutional reasons, well, I absolutely can't accept it, and I hold that none of us have the right to accept it. Thank you.
ParlaMint-BA_2010-09-01-0.u8494	Mr. Ivanić had a replica.
ParlaMint-BA_2010-09-01-0.u8495	I had a replica of Mr. Tihić. For this session today, at the beginning you knew it was going to be like this and that's why I suggested that we postpone the session. You know, why did we hold the session? Because of Afghanistan and the agency and because the foreigners were looking for it. Otherwise, no other reason would be to hold a session. Let it be admitted. All of this is now a circus that's being made. Everything. And if there weren't strangers to ask for this session because of these two points, there wouldn't be a session today.
ParlaMint-BA_2010-09-01-0.u8496	Which strangers, sick? 52
ParlaMint-BA_2010-09-01-0.u8497	I assure you, if we're going to be honest. If we're not gonna be honest, then don't talk, we'll find a hundred reasons. It was unserious to schedule a session with the agenda item on which the Assembly will plead and people have a legitimate right. They're half the number in the National Assembly of the RS. Understand. I completely disagree with the law, their access to the List Act. But it's more than half of the National Assembly and more than half the will of citizens in the RS, which I must, I do not want to respect. As much as I disagree, and I don't agree, I don't agree with this until the end, and I think all this approach has been harmful to the RS, and this debate. But please, declare a legitimate mechanism saying that... at least three members must be present as abuse, don't do that. They have the right to use this mechanism. And it's not abuse, it's not. It's their legitimate right. What are the political reasons that you didn't want to leave when something's going to vote past you, I don't know. The question is, how long will they be leaving these sessions? I don't think it'll last forever, I don't think so. I don't even think it's gonna last that long. And that's why I don't think there's any more kind of debate to go back to. If there's a deal in the College, let it be explained how they agreed. If they didn't agree, let them tell us they didn't, and then this is how we're going to go, not that we're using this to shoot who's going to play with their audience anymore. And what's not forbidden is allowed, if I do, Mrs. Čolo, legal norms, and it's not forbidden to leave the session and not have three members. It's allowed and it says explicitly.
ParlaMint-BA_2010-09-01-0.u8498	Thank you very much. Mr. Rajić.
ParlaMint-BA_2010-09-01-0.u8499	Madam Chairman, well, I'm not going to make any special contribution but I need to make a public statement about what we're talking about right now. So I'm sure we won't achieve anything productive compared to the agenda point. So neither will that point be considered nor will the decision be made. Because we have two choices that are two extremes. Keep talking and making sure where we can't be sure, or you'll take advantage of the business opportunity and the political right to act as you announced you'd behave and break down the quorum. Now we can have an endless debate and convince each other whether it's right or abuse of rights. I could at some point put myself in the position of you and support your right, if I look literally at the application of the Rules of Procedure and literally interpret the right to political articulation, political behaviour, and on the other hand, if we are talking about some elements of the position of the state, its development, the adoption of necessary standards, then I could take that as an obstruction. But while it is, unfortunately, and so is, in the Constitution, in the constitutions of the entities, so BiH, in the Rules of Procedure of the Parliamentary Assembly of BiH, we cannot avoid this reality. But that should finally remind us, and very seriously, that with such constitutional order and with such instruments of decision and with such a monopoly, we cannot go far with individual groups of political in BiH. That's why we're thinking, what one of our colleagues mentioned, that immediately after the election of the constitution that is set up here by democratic means, deal with the 53 Constitution in a very responsible way and, in particular, stop cosmetic amendments and the Constitution from many who have spoken here so far about the needs of repairing the Constitution in principle, give what you give. I believe that the Constitution needs to be radically changed because it has introduced one complete discredition of the position of a whole constituent people, i.e. the position of three constitutive sovereign nations set three degrees, which absolutely does not exist anywhere on the globe of the Earth. So, in my opinion, it's the only quality and educational experience from this debate today, from last session whose maintenance was also prevented by the collapse of the quorum, and this whole thing would be miserable and we can talk about it in infinity. So I can't say that RS lawmakers abuse it, because that's what the Rules of Procedure and political practice allow them to do. Another question now is for the rest of us whether we can forever agree to such a position in which one people and one political option can make decisions, regardless of what we think.
ParlaMint-BA_2010-09-01-0.u8500	Thank you very much. Mr. Ljubičić.
ParlaMint-BA_2010-09-01-0.u8501	I thank you, Madam Chairman. When it comes to SNSD we are aware of our positions, we are aware of our obligations and we are aware of our responsibilities. And it's no accident that last time we did it the way we did it. The second thing I'm saying is, it's not true that it's the first time, that the Serbian People's Club is too loud for the first time and that we left the session. So it's not the first time that three SNSD delegates have been voted and we've left the session. There have been cases where Srbin have also been revoted and have not left the session. There were cases when the Bošnjak were too loud, they didn't leave the session, that's true. And there were cases when the Hrvat were also overvoted, they didn't leave the session. So I repeat here again, this happened now because it's obviously a specific case. I repeat, it is not the first time that the three SNSD delegates who come from the RS are too loud and have left. There were cases where we were in the minority, we stayed in the sessions and the sessions were over. When it comes to this law, there's a big story about the need to adopt this law. Obviously, the need is now lower than the political story. This law has now surpassed the political story of the need for the adoption of this law, which is spoken of in the big mouth. The point, to me, is that. Therefore, we have assessed simply that it is against interest. It's our political position and it means we're part of this club coming from the RS. I repeat, we are aware of our obligations and responsibilities and positions of meaning that we have. We don't think we're breaking the Constitution. This is just part of the right that was accidentally used at this point, it's a specific case, and I don't see at all the need to mention this issue and mention, I don't know, some big words like anti-Dayton action, anti-constitutional action, etc. There's no one else, this is just the use of the rights that exist in the Constitution. Nothing more. 54
ParlaMint-BA_2010-09-01-0.u8502	Thank you very much. Mr. Rančić.
ParlaMint-BA_2010-09-01-0.u8503	Thank you very much. Here, I'm gonna try to maybe just say two more words about this and not answer it again. Then I will beg that we continue to work in accordance with the Constitution and the Rules of Procedure. Therefore, the legislator, the purpose of the provision, the purpose of the essence of the existence of this provision, is therefore also in Article IV. The constitution under b), reads: 'Nine members of the House of Nations make up the quorum, provided that at least three Bosniaks, three Croatian and three Serb delegates are present', as well as the entire provision of the 61st Rules of Procedure is to prescribe what is the quorum, number and composition, the structure of this home so that it can begin with work. That is the purpose of this provision, both the Constitution and the Rules of Procedure. It is not the purpose of this provision here to teach us and to teach us how to use that number of three to prevent the work of this home. And that's the difference, my fellow respected, in that sense, whether it's abuse or not. Yeah, I'm still saying it is. And if so, they also confirm the provisions of Article 61. The Rules of Procedure, which says, 'At the beginning of every session and before the vote, the chair shall determine whether there is quorum and inform the House thereof.' Did we do it last time? We didn't. The quorum existed. We were all here. Even enough Srbin, respected colleagues were there. So the chairman was supposed to say if there was a quorum or not. The quorum was but was deliberately abandoned. Now, that's abuse. Second position: "The quorum consists of nine delegates, with the condition that at least three Bosniaks, three Croatian and three Serb delegates are present." Third position: 'If there is no quorum' means late two, problems, traffic, God Bog disease, etc., 'the chairman gives a 60-minute break, during which he tries to find a solution', check where that third one is, or Bošnjak, or Srbin, or Hrvat. Is that done? It's not. That's why it's an abuse, because they've been here respected colleagues and deliberately abandoned so the session can't be held. That's the difference. Here, I won't do it anymore. So, I urge and ask the Honorable Chairman to continue to lead this session and this final act in accordance with the Rules of Procedure and the Constitution. Thank you.
ParlaMint-BA_2010-09-01-0.u8504	Mr. Šaraba.
ParlaMint-BA_2010-09-01-0.u8505	I didn't mean to talk about this point, I thought I could easily watch how the ruling coalition works and how it works, but I have to say. So in the last session, 55 or so last session, we ended up the way we ended up and it was logical that today's session started with that agenda that was in the last session. Of course, another agenda was established as a result of the compromise of the Kolegijum. And there was a violation of the proper principles. If there was an agreement with the Kolegijum on this agenda, which is that the session should be completed after the 26th point, then it should be respected. So let's not act in one part when it's determined in one way, and now that we've come to an end the other way. So my position on this law will not change. But there are other things, and these are principles. If the principle was the Kolegijuma to work until the 26th point, then it should have ended. It's just as unprincipled as it's been working since the beginning.
ParlaMint-BA_2010-09-01-0.u8506	I just want to say one line. I need to say it now. There is no man, I think, in this country who thinks this law should not be passed. The devastating fact is that BiH remains with Sudan or Lebanon the only country that will not execute the census. But it's also devastating to put Article 48 into one of these laws. So, we've submitted the amendment thinking that this article will be thrown out because what if we have something that's going to happen when we apply it? If the Bošnjak were ready to step down, then that concession could show by what they're going to say - here's the concession: there's no article 48. We adopted a revised strategy that defined that the return would end in 2014. Well, that's where we could talk about it, too. So, at the maximum of our demands, our answer is, I can't make that decision with my colleagues, it has to be made by the National Assembly. And as unacceptable as it may seem to Mr. Hilmi Neimarlija, remember, Mr. Neimarlija, and now and in the future when it comes to large political decisions, large political decisions, each time representatives of the SNSD at the Serbian People's Club will seek the position of the National Assembly.
ParlaMint-BA_2010-09-01-0.u8507	I have, as you say, business, actually.
ParlaMint-BA_2010-09-01-0.u8508	Replica.
ParlaMint-BA_2010-09-01-0.u8509	And I'm going to have to now that I'm directly called, Mr. Ivanić, and I have and direct the line. First, she was a businessman because the chairwoman used her (I am now using this very support for the first time and I do not like the word) the speaker and the chairperson's function to say that there are no points of the agenda and that she is now giving herself the right to speak about the content of this point.
ParlaMint-BA_2010-09-01-0.u8510	What content? 56
ParlaMint-BA_2010-09-01-0.u8511	About the 46th Law, about 48th, which is really, really unserious. By the way, I'm afraid that the way Mrs. Majkić led and ended this session has contributed greatly to this conclusion. I reacted to the finale. And unfortunately, with that in mind, I have to note that in the conduct of Mrs. Majkić's session, it was very, very, very, very well-represented interference of full institutional and completely private conduct, in terms of which I say now, here, the deputy minister cannot speak because, I don't know, he and the minister of something at the House of Representatives did not agree. That's how it's spoken in gray, that's not how it's spoken in one institution. You can't go out for a pay phone and explain, or justify the previous decision that there are no 26 points, or that we don't talk about it today, or this point about the list, is it, 27, and then talk about the content, about the reasons that we, 14, haven't reached at all. And replica, these are reactions of a technical nature. So, the replica of what I like or what I don't like. Of course, it's a matter of my kind of intimate and mood and feelings and now my skills or ability to give these feelings the proper legitimate form. I only disputed, did not challenge the loyalty of SNSD delegates to the attitudes of the National Assembly of the Republic of Slovenia, but I disputed, and I remain on this, and I would like to be reassured by someone – that it is the obligation of this home, or the interruption of its work, because it is only necessary to declare the National Assembly of the Republic of Slovenia, the violation of Dejton and the Constitution, because this home is not the authority of the National Assembly of the Republic of Slovenia. I repeat this for the third time, I am very embarrassed to have to repeat it, because I was again asked by Mrs. Majkić.
ParlaMint-BA_2010-09-01-0.u8512	Thank you very much. Mr. Ivanic.
ParlaMint-BA_2010-09-01-0.u8513	Well, although we're obviously about to end, I'm guessing this is the last session, the question is whether or not it's going to be and when it's going to be, whether it's now or after the election, I don't like that we finally came to this. And I don't like what they're using, they're opening up some topics that have absolutely nothing to do with the list, not even with the overall organization, and in that context, I have to, and in that context, I have to respect Mr. Rajić, which I very much respect when he said and when he threatened to say that I had at least that, when he said the question is, how long will we suffer that one subject here can limit everything. I don't like style. This entity, which I am not defending, I am fiercely attacking and contesting its political principle, has the right to use it, because, as the Croatian people have the right to have three representatives, and there is no sitting, but indirect insertion always and in every situation of our entity vote as something that we constitutionally have and transfer it to us, and it has been present in one way or another for the last four years, and it seems to me here in particular today, to say something that I do not like to say, but it is the natural consequence of political relations during the war. We're entering something that's too far away, forming a Federation before Dayton was formed, creating some coalitions that used to happen, no need, I'm not up for it. And that's why I don't think opening these topics makes any sense. 57 No more sessions can be held today, it is fully visible, no one can convince one side or this side of the other side that it will change its position and let us finish that session. It can be done in two ways and what I've been saying since the beginning. If the College has arranged for the session to end, we won't, it doesn't matter the explanation, let's stop it. Here, there was no explanation. And if he hasn't arranged let's get... what was last time and get it over with. You'll keep going out and saying it's abuse, I'll always say it's not abuse, because I don't agree with it, and it's over. But let's not suffer anymore and make a circus out of all this.
ParlaMint-BA_2010-09-01-0.u8514	Thank you very much. Mr. Rajić.
ParlaMint-BA_2010-09-01-0.u8515	My kolega Ivanić, I have a need to explain. So, I didn't mean to, it might have sounded like that, but it wasn't aimed at that side at all. So, I'm maybe not precise enough to express myself which isn't my handicap. Actually, I belong to a category of people who are very clear about it, but maybe I left my doubts there. The reference to this as long as we will suffer the ability of the instruments of decision-making of a group, one interest was more relevant to the Federation than to the RS. And I'll tell you why. Because when I mentioned somewhere interesting when I was talking about that we should suddenly face reality, the instruments we have in the Constitution and the Rules of Procedure, and that we should leave the stories of step by step with the changes to the Constitution, give what you give. So, in this sense, it was my remark to the feds and politicians that they understood that cosmetic and small steps could not change the large disparity that exists in the way of decision-making. So, if we understand each other now, that's how much better.
ParlaMint-BA_2010-09-01-0.u8516	Thank you very much. Here you go. Are you?
ParlaMint-BA_2010-09-01-0.u8517	Here's a short replica of this fellow Ivanić intervention. Actually, I have a right to say that I'm not ready to put up with some things. The census is one of the conditions for the EU integration process. Here, I am not prepared to suffer that someone blocking the adoption of this law is blocking my path to the EU. My family, my daughters, my grandchildren are already in the EU because they are EU citizens. I don't want to be separated from my family by a Schengen border around here. I have the right to say that I can't take it anymore. Therefore, it is obvious that this way of decision is blocking BiH's path to both the EU and its economic development, and it is obvious that three peoples are not in the same position. And I, in my first debate, focused on not agreeing to this constitutional precedent that the House of Peoples depends on the decisions of entity parliaments because it affects me, so to speak, inequality in both entities as representatives of the Croatian people. And yet this home offers me some elements of equality, much greater than entities have, or cannot allow it. According to 58, let's discuss it. The constitution must change, of course, and it will change. To what extent, we'll see. Today we won't change him.
ParlaMint-BA_2010-09-01-0.u8518	Thank you very much. Mr. Tihić.
ParlaMint-BA_2010-09-01-0.u8519	Since questions are being asked what the College has decided, here's to tell me what we've decided, that's how I figured it out. We agreed on a revised agenda in the College compared to a session that was 29th, and in that agenda there was also the 'Census List Act' at the last item of the agenda. And we adopted that here at the House of Peoples. Then the question arises, in the conversations of the three of us, what will happen when this census comes to life. Mrs. Majkić said, and then we agreed, that she was asking for a session to be interrupted. A decision to terminate can only be made by Dom. He can't do college, especially when the agenda's been adopted. Therefore, we have agreed on a agenda like this which is that "the Census Act" is on the agenda. This home has adopted this item of the agenda and only this home can interrupt the session at this point in the agenda. Well, he can't, college, 'cause if he did, he wouldn't even put it on the agenda. There wouldn't be a need to be on the agenda if we agreed to take it off. Therefore, the House of Peoples should decide on Mrs. Majkić's proposal, depending on the reasons she will make, and we will opt out when we vote.
ParlaMint-BA_2010-09-01-0.u8520	Thank you very much. Mr. Ivanic.
ParlaMint-BA_2010-09-01-0.u8521	Well, I'm sorry, it's really hypocritical, because by putting an end to it, we knew you wouldn't talk about it. And now in front of... the media and the public someone is trying to be more Catholic than the Pope. So what are you doing? And then instruments are now used, from the story of who is equal, who is not equal, who has the right, who has no right, all in the spirit of making a general circus and getting a minute on the shows. Please, gentlemen, you've all agreed, and I've suggested we postpone the session, knowing that this will come to pass. Well, we all knew. But some have prepared to beat the Dayton Accords, and others have prepared to defend the Kobajagi. Don't let us do this anymore? The bottom line is that there's no more discussion, and now let's just find an explanation who's going to win with which explanation and get an argument for the next five days, and basically the change of agenda itself has been known that we're not going to talk about this.
ParlaMint-BA_2010-09-01-0.u8522	Thank you very much. 59 Is anyone else answering for word? He's not answering. So, I'd break up the session at this point. I want to congratulate you all, if another session of the House of Peoples doesn't happen, I want to congratulate all those who are candidates in the next election and I hope that we will continue our co-operation in some new mandate. Thank you. The seat was suspended at 14.20 p.m.
