ParlaMint-BA_2010-04-19-1.u7657	Ladies and gentlemen, distinguished colleagues and fellow delegates, present representatives of the Council of Ministers, media representatives, I warmly welcome you. I am opening the 45th session of the House of Peoples of the Parliamentary Assembly of Bosnia and Herzegovina. There are 15 delegates present at the session, from each nation to five. For the 45th session, I suggest the next 1. Proposal for a Law on Amendments and Supplements to the Election Act of Bosnia and Herzegovina (second reading) – Delegates Dušanka Majkić, Ilija Filipović and Hazim Rančić; 2. Giving consent to the ratification of the Loan Agreement (A project to improve rural conditions) between Bosnia and Herzegovina and the International Agricultural Development Fund This is a harmonised agenda from the College of the People's House. Any word from anyone? He's not answering. Moving to the 1st point of the Ad agenda. 1. Proposal for a Law on Amendments and Supplements to the Election Law of BiH (second reading) – Proposed delegates Dušanka Majkić, Ilija Filipović and Hazim Rančić
ParlaMint-BA_2010-04-19-1.u7660	Thank you very much. I would like to inform this high house and you, Mr. Chairman, that the task we took over at the last session has been fulfilled in a way that we had a session of the Constitutional Commission, we had in the second reading of the amendments and additions to the Election Law. And it is true, as you said, that we have had 10 amendments, of which eight amendments were adopted with three votes "for", one "abstained" and it is also necessary to stress that these amendments are in agreement with how the House of Representatives adopted at its meetings. And that's very important, so I would recommend it here at the House to be done, because we don't have time to adopt amendments and additions to the Election Law and in different forms or new amendments, because we have an extremely short time ahead and we shouldn't allow ourselves the luxury that, after the announcement of the election date, we're discussing the amendments and additions to this law, which we really shouldn't do, because the time to schedule elections is approaching. So I would like to appeal to support today what is our commission. So, to pass this law with eight amendments agreeing with the House of Representatives.
ParlaMint-BA_2010-04-19-1.u7661	Thank you very much. I give the word to the Proposer, or to the legislators, if necessary. There's no need. Two amendments were renewed by the Slobodan Šaraba delegate. Before I open the debate, I give my word to Mr. Šarab. Here you go.
ParlaMint-BA_2010-04-19-1.u7662	Thank you, Mr. Chairman. So, I will briefly repeat the explanation that I presented this morning at the session of this committee. The amendments therefore relate to Articles 32 and 33. In Article 32, point 1614, my amendment is aimed at enabling public electronic media under equal conditions political advertising to political entities without payment. So I think that for public electronic media, financial resources are provided in one significant part of the budgets, and in that sense, I find it quite normal and logical to delete this payment and to make it available to everyone under equal conditions, to repeat again, without paying. And my second amendment is directed towards Article 33, so point 16.15. The amount of 60 minutes per week is talked about private electronic media and their ability to allow political advertising to be made possible to political entities for 120 minutes, instead of 60 minutes, as proposed in these amendments and additions. I think these are real proposals that would allow all political entities to be even better and even more concrete political representation and objectivity in representation. Thank you. 3
ParlaMint-BA_2010-04-19-1.u7663	Thank you very much. I'm opening a debate. Is anyone answering their word? Mr. Božo Ljubić.
ParlaMint-BA_2010-04-19-1.u7664	I would only ask the question, therefore, of the amendment's proposer, so that I would be clean with myself. So, you're suggesting that advertising in public electronic media for all political entities be free. Does this mean that a particular political entity could not pay additionally for one free quota or would it?
ParlaMint-BA_2010-04-19-1.u7665	/no microphone turned on/
ParlaMint-BA_2010-04-19-1.u7666	Not in public.
ParlaMint-BA_2010-04-19-1.u7667	Thank you very much. Is anyone else answering for word? Here's Hazim Rančić. Here you go.
ParlaMint-BA_2010-04-19-1.u7668	Dear Chairman, distinguished colleagues and colleagues, honored guests, so I'm going to talk about these two amendments by my colleagues, Šaraba. amandman I. speaks of the fact that public electronic media have no advertising at all to charge. Therefore, an existing Article 16.14. The electoral law provides for one and the other option in public electronic media, in the position (2), which states that public electronic media will allow political entities a free term for direct address within 30 days of holding the elections. Therefore, Article 16.14(2) of the Treaty on the Functioning of the European Union The electoral law obliges public electronic media to give everyone this free chance to reach citizens, to voters. And attitude (5) limits public electronic media that they may also have paid for the campaign within 30 minutes per week. amandman II. brings us to an even more favourable position. The existing provision of Article 16.15 speaks..., therefore: 'Article 16.15. position (1) Private electronic media will allow under equal conditions, within 30 days before the election day, paid political advertising to political entities of no more than 60 minutes per week'. Col. Šaraba wants to double this minute, and attitude (2) says that both private and electronic media can, in a period of 30 days, at the time of the campaign before the election day, provide political entities with a free term for direct address but on equal terms for all, what happens in practice and happening. For me and one and the other amendments are not acceptable. Not to go into further explanations now for the provisions of Articles 1614 and 16.15 and the amendments concerning them concerning Articles 32 and 33. The proposal for a law on amendments and amendments to the Electoral Law, I would like to refer to 4 just one more fact, as the chairman of our committee said, and that would mean that the adoption of these amendments would mean that we have the text of a law different from the House of Representatives. This would mean that we have to put together a committee for reconciliation in our home, then in our second home, then their session, and then reconciliation, and only after that at one and another home, which basically means that we would not have a law that would become an integral part of the Election Law, and that the Central Election Commission would announce the election within 150 days before the election day. So here's another reason for not accepting these amendments. Thank you.
ParlaMint-BA_2010-04-19-1.u7669	Thank you very much. Anyone else answer for a word? If he doesn't answer, I'm putting Mr. Šaraba's first amendments to the vote. We're voting on amandman I.. kao's "for"? Two votes "yes". Who Is “against ”? "Contained"? Two votes "yes", two "abstained", the other "against" and the amendment has not passed. _________(?) Three abstentions. Three "abstained", well, doesn't change much. amandman II. We're voting again. Who Is For? Who Is “against ”? "Contained"? The amendment didn't get the required majority. We are now voting on the Proposal for a Law on Amendments and Supplements to the BiH Election Law. Who Is For? Is there anyone “against ”? One "against" "sustained"? With one vote "against", we have adopted amendments and additions to this law. Now we move to point two, Ad. 2. Giving consent to ratification of the loan agreement (A project to improve rural conditions) between BiH and the International Monetary Fund for Agricultural Development
