ParlaMint-BA_2010-02-17-0.u32503	Ladies and gentlemen, colleagues and fellow Members of Parliament, honored guests, I am opening the 72nd session of the Parliamentary House of BiH. The meeting invited regular guests from the BiH presidency and members of the Council of Ministers, representatives of OHR, OSCE and other international organisations monitoring the work of our home, as well as representatives of certain NGOs. I welcome all present MPs and guests, as well as media representatives. We received information that the absence was justified by honourable MP Mehmed Suljkanović and Sead Jamakosmanović. I find there are 33 MPs present and we have a quorum for full work and decision-making. On previous issues, I would like to inform you that MP Denis Bećirović delivered a resolution on the importance of condemning genocide in Srebrenica and war crimes in BiH to build permanent peace, in accordance with Article 148(2) of the Rules of Procedure of the House of Representatives. The House should be made known on the previous issues whether to refer the resolution to the committee responsible. If the House adopts this proposal, the resolution will be addressed to the committee responsible, otherwise it will be placed on our session's agenda today. It's consistent with so far practice in this home. I am putting the motion to vote for the resolution to be delivered to the committee responsible.
ParlaMint-BA_2010-02-17-0.u32504	No microphone turned on
ParlaMint-BA_2010-02-17-0.u32505	Sure, go ahead.
ParlaMint-BA_2010-02-17-0.u32506	The President-in-Office, since we are in determining the agenda, the proposal of the SDP MPs' Club as a motion for a resolution is that, if you agree, this resolution goes as so far as the resolutions that have largely gone – to go to the commission stage and to reach such a conclusion today. This is our proposal as a proposal, and, of course, Parliament will decide. 2
ParlaMint-BA_2010-02-17-0.u32507	Thank you. This suggestion has helped us, but we must vote on it, it is in line with the Rules of Procedure. Please prepare to vote for the resolution to take place in the commission phase. You can vote now! "For" 31, "against" was not, "sustained" one vote. I understand we've sent Resolution into the commission phase. As for the changes in the agenda, I'd like to introduce you to the next one. On the agenda, we downloaded Tačka 3. Proposal for a anti-mine action law, at the request of our Joint Commission, which prepares new amendments. The meeting (on which we spoke last time, in charge of the commission) was held so that we will have the law at the next session with the new amendment that is being prepared. Point 5. Proposal for a law on the promotion of small and medium-sized enterprises and entrepreneurship in BiH, as we received a request from the Joint Commission on Economic Reform and Development and extended the deadline in the College for submission of opinions by 8 March. Point 12. Information on sanctioning executioners of verbal and physical objections against journalists in BiH and a proposal for measures. Since the information came too late, this commission could not meet, the Joint Defence and Security Commission, and did not deliver the opinion of the competent commission, so that no business conditions were obtained to put this item on the agenda. At the same time, we added point 3 to the new draft agenda. The request of MP Sefer Halilović to consider the Bill on Amendments and Supplements to the Law on Service in the Armed Forces of BiH by an urgent procedure, in accordance with Article 127. Rules of Procedure. I'm opening a debate on the proposed agenda. Here you go. Dear Ambassador Zlatko Lagumdžija. Here you go.
ParlaMint-BA_2010-02-17-0.u32508	I thank you, Mr. Chairman. Although the minutes have not been adopted, the fact is that last session of the Parliamentary Assembly adopted this conclusion that the Council of Ministers is in charge of special removal from the responsibility of the BiH Ministry of Justice, the Ministry of Human Rights and Refugees and the Ministry of Foreign Affairs to prepare information on the "Lightness" action carried out on 2.2 and further activities, no later than the next session. That conclusion was adopted. My proposal was to conclude that this information contained a proposal for measures still remains active, and then it was quite natural at the House during the debate whether to throw out measures, because it would probably take more time. And I am, as a promoter, that is, the SDP MPs' club, excuse me, as the promoters, we have accepted 3, precisely in order to have a consensus on one such thing, to oblige the Council of Ministers to do this information that will contain further activities without any precise measures. And that's the adopted conclusion that was practically adopted with one abstention, no one against. Now, the conclusion of Parliament is that we have this on the agenda today. I don't naturally think we should force it, especially if someone is going to tell us that we have it. And I would like, Mr. Chairman, that, at least from this conclusion, you are now reading yourself, or that the Council of Ministers is being shown to at least tell us what it is. The more fortunate it is that we have adopted such a consensus in the last session of Parliament... because it would reduce unnecessary manipulations with the whole event. Although there are clearly different views of people who even belong to the same political options, the same worldview, however you will, which I believe are the result of not some disagreement between them, but the lack of relevant information. And for these very reasons, I would ask that what is possible before we are given, that is, to be answered today out of respect for the problem itself, and also out of respect for Parliament. I repeat again, I just want to take the opportunity to say one more time to avoid manipulations that have already begun long ago, but I think they're less because there's one such consensus to get the right information. So, I do not suggest, Mr. Chairman, that we add to the agenda, I do not suggest, but I believe that... adoption of the agenda is a place in which we should manifest ourselves according to our own conclusion on the agenda for today's session, because the College obviously did not act in accordance with Parliament's decision. Well, thank you very much.
ParlaMint-BA_2010-02-17-0.u32509	Thank you. Since this conclusion is almost unanimously adopted, the commitment of this parliament is undeniable that it wants to have that information. It concluded that the Council of Ministers, but with a special removal from the Ministry of Security, the Ministry of Justice, the Ministry of Human Rights and the foreign ministry, four ministries, is due to deliver information to Parliament. We have information in the College that not all ministries have delivered and that the Council of Ministers has not been able to discuss this information. We have a promise that it will be for our next session on March 10th. So we can put that item on the agenda today without information we don't have and we can't put it in the Rules of Procedure because we don't have information. And secondly, let's consider it when we get information from the Council of Ministers on March 10th. Of course, today is the last day, and I would therefore like to warn all MPs and delegates that they can provide written questions for our scheduled session for February 24th "poslanik, delegates ask, and the Council of Ministers answers." And some of the questions can also be sent to that kind of agenda. Therefore, it is also one way to further consider the situation, but we currently have no information that we could put on the agenda today. That's all we said yesterday at the Expansive College, and we don't have any more information. And I think it would be good to discuss that agenda point in quality, if we have to do it in a closed session, but we can't do it today without information, we can do it on March 10th. 4
ParlaMint-BA_2010-02-17-0.u32510	No microphone turned on
ParlaMint-BA_2010-02-17-0.u32511	Here you go.
ParlaMint-BA_2010-02-17-0.u32512	Mr. Chairman, I fully respect what you've said. I don't see any alternative to what you said from the point of view of what to do. March 10th will be practically four times how it happened, almost forty days, and even in, is, detention people. I can't keep it for more than 30 days under special conditions, so I'm afraid that March 10th – I just want to realize that it's late, but we don't have alternatives. What I think you should do today, and I'd like you as a College to direct it, because from one opposition club, that attitude doesn't mean much in this House, but I think today, because of the importance of this, to come out as chairman of the Council of Ministers and to tell us nicely: I respect your conclusion, I respect this home, exactly what you just said. I don't naturally expect Mr. Sredoje Nović to do it, though, if he was in charge, I'm sure we'd have that information, as it were, but what is it, is it? And I would just like to show ourselves properly, to express our dissatisfaction over the slowness in this, because let it be done in any entity parliament, out of respect for ourselves and that parliament, so out of respect for the entities, he would not allow the chairman of the National Assembly, or the Federal Parliament to do so without obvious and without some kind of yellow card to whoever didn't do it. Not to say that he might be red in Banja Luka. True, you don't have most of it for red, do you? So, I would only ask that we show ourselves properly in order to preserve the dignity of this Parliament and for relations to the problem itself. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-BA_2010-02-17-0.u32513	Thank you. Dear Ambassador Lagumdžija has raised one question that we can address, I would say, not in just one way, we can do it two ways, if we will constructively approach this problem. And I believe he has a desire in this House to get rid of him comprehensively. And there may be a suggestion that on March 2nd, we have a session with only one item on the agenda, that's this item on the agenda. The second is Tuesday, and if the MPs agree, and if we can vote on it, or if we can agree on it in the Extended College. We in the College are prepared to try to get information with the Council of Ministers and to sit here on this agenda only on March 2nd. So there's a possibility if there's a will. _________(?) [[no microphone turned on]] In an extended college, okay. I schedule an extended college at 1400 hours, when we take a lunch break, then we'll set up a session on March 2nd. Thank you. 5 Next, who's picking up the agenda? No more reports. I'm closing the debate. I find that the 72nd House session has the following
ParlaMint-BA_2010-02-17-0.u32518	For new ones, for new ones.
ParlaMint-BA_2010-02-17-0.u32519	Husein Nanić, you are for comment. Here you go.
ParlaMint-BA_2010-02-17-0.u32520	I thank you, Chairman. 7 Here, I have received an answer to the asked question and I thank you for your urgency and for your quick answer, because this is about the answer to the question I asked at the last session of BH MAC. And from the answer to what is one warning for all of us, given that in the process of adopting the Anti-minal Action Act, which would determine the way... in which the process of demining itself is financed, from this response which really contains all the data on the funds that were planned and implemented in 2009, as in the 2010 plans, we see that about 90% of the funds in the process of demining are funds from donors. In this regard, we really need to find ways that would not be questionable for the continuation of such a process of demining, while at the same time the Council of Ministers should have its role in the process. Thank you.
ParlaMint-BA_2010-02-17-0.u32521	Thank you. Anyone else have a comment? Dear Ambassador Martin Raguž, comment. Here you go.
ParlaMint-BA_2010-02-17-0.u32522	Regarding the answer to the question I received from the Council of Ministers – ( At what stage is the implementation of the conclusions of the Parliamentary Assembly when it comes to the insurance of funds of 400 million KM for return issues?) - I can say that I am not satisfied with the answer. The only thing encouraging about this response is that it stands in this response addressed to 11. 2. In 2010, it was finally prepared and adopted at the Council of Ministers a revised strategy for returning refugees and displaced. But in response, there are no concrete projections yet to be realised and the conclusion of the Parliamentary Assembly. And after this question I asked 16. 12. In 2009, at the adoption of the budget for this year, this house adopted the conclusion 'that in the next half of the year the Council of Ministers provides credit funds or other resources of 400 million KM over the next half of the year', so I will update this issue through the realization of that conclusion of the House of Representatives. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-BA_2010-02-17-0.u32523	Thank you. I see the reported, but I can't tell who signed up for comment. Is there anyone else to comment on that he checked in or is this all about new questions? Okay. Moving to b) New Parliament Questions Dear Ambassador Vinko Zorić. Here you go. 8
ParlaMint-BA_2010-02-17-0.u32525	I have a question for the Council of Ministers of BiH, but I note immediately that the explanation of my question is also a stenogram of this debate of mine. So my question is, "How is it possible that some people are not in the IRS records even though they have an I.D., a unique home number of citizens and the C.I.P.S.'s office in their community claims that everything is fine, and so is the competent agency?" And the agency seems to be calling me the I.D. Agency, records and data exchange. 'Is it possible that for such failures the Tax Administration is a party responsible for having all the necessary documents? Who are they responsible for?' So that's my question. Namely, it is that some people do not have the IRS records and then they inform, and here I am saying that there are at least three... in the employees of this Parliamentary Assembly; then they inform here the Accounting of an employee, and accounting says, 'Behold, these persons who are in your maintenance chart do not exist at all.' This person has a ID card, I have here from such persons and a copy of the ID card, a CIPS notice received by anyone who logs in to the CIPS, a request for registration, a check-out and confirmation of a received registration. So all of this exists, and the services in this Parliamentary Assembly claim that this job must be removed by the employee himself. The same is said in the Tax Administration in Sarajevo, and the home municipality says: "When we click on the unique home number of citizens of that person, all data immediately appears." That's what they claim at this agency in Banja Luka. What's that? I was wondering if, these three cases I know, all three are Hrvat, so I was wondering if this was another way to move the Hrvat out of BiH. So I thought it wasn't. I'll tell you who gave me that information. So they gave me, so who told me that I had to make the mistake, they told me on the phone number 033 21 60 13. Wherever I've tried it myself, and I hear from the others who have this problem, to remove that mistake, I can't. But in our Accounting here and at the Tax Administration, downtown Sarajevo, they say, "That's what you yourselves must remove." I wonder if money was spent in such systems, software, or whatever they call it, or is it one way to discrimination employees across BiH?- I'm sorry. This happened here in the BiH Parliamentary Assembly and then I can react as a representative. Some people wouldn't even tell me, 'cause they'd think they were guilty of something. In the IRS, Sarajevo argues that one who does not remove a mistake will pay very high fines. I wonder how it's possible and who's responsible for such failures. Or do these people, whether they remain, to those people who have such problems, remain to sing in themselves or to repeat that verse of Arsen Dedić: 'I stood before the city, the city without doors, and I without keys.' If that's how it is in BiH, they're hooking us. Thank you.
ParlaMint-BA_2010-02-17-0.u32526	I thank the esteemed representative Zorić. The next is Honorable Representative Adem Huskić. 9
ParlaMint-BA_2010-02-17-0.u32527	Thank you, Mr. Chairman. Dear colleagues, esteemed guests, I have three short questions. The questions are for the Council of Ministers: 1. What banks do payment traffic for BiH institutions? 2. What was the cost of payment in 2008 and 2009? 3. Has the payment service been performed under the Public Procurement Act? Please provide me with information on all banks and amounts individually for 2008 and 2009. Thank you.
ParlaMint-BA_2010-02-17-0.u32528	I thank the honourable representative. Next is Honorable Representative Mirko Okolić.
ParlaMint-BA_2010-02-17-0.u32529	Thank you, Mr. Chairman. I have two parliamentary questions. The first is for the Ministry of Justice: 'Did the Department of Justice's administrative inspection ever so far exercise control of the legality of the conclusion of an act contract or of work for a certain time at the Ministry of Security? If so, to provide me with information on the results of that inspection. If not, I suggest that he do so urgently on the findings of the administrative inspection, by the names and functions of the responsible, to inform me." The second question is for the Ministry of Security: 'How many people at the Ministry of Security are currently working under a contract on work or a contract on work, on which jobs and by national structure? I ask that I be provided with an overview of all the work contracts or work in the past three years according to the national structure, with an explanation of why they had a direct need to conclude such contracts." Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-BA_2010-02-17-0.u32530	Thank you. The next is distinguished representative Denis Bećirović. 10
ParlaMint-BA_2010-02-17-0.u32531	My question is: "How much of the Ministry of Finance and Treasury in the Council of Ministers of BiH planned from 1 January 2007 to 1 February 2010 in accordance with their programme of work to adopt the law and how exactly was the law passed in this period at the meetings of the Council of Ministers of BiH?" I ask the question to the Minister of Finance and Treasury of the Council of Ministers of BiH and I seek the answer in writing. Since my questions and the following are very similar, and some are almost identical to other ministries, I will not ask them any questions but I am delivering them in writing.
ParlaMint-BA_2010-02-17-0.u32532	Thank you. The next is Honourable representative Sadik Sado Bahtić.
ParlaMint-BA_2010-02-17-0.u32533	Thank you. Dear colleagues, colleagues, members of the executive board, media and guests, I warmly welcome you all. My question is for OSA, the Intelligence and Security Agency: 'Is it true that on the list of persons who are a threat to the national security of the BiH state, only members of one nation, Muslims, domestic and foreign?' I'm asking, fellow Lagumdžija, I don't know, you may be offended, perhaps you don't belong to that people here. I'm not done, don't throw it away 'cause if I throw... I just want it to be known, I am a member of the OSA Labour Control Commission, of course I will raise the issue on this committee, because it turns out that those who act secretly and publicly against the state every day are the guards of the BiH state, and those most advocated by the state, who have no reserve states, turn out to be dangerous to the survival and security of the country. I'll ask that question on the commission. Thank you.
ParlaMint-BA_2010-02-17-0.u32534	Thank you. The next is the distinguished representative Lazar Prodanović.
ParlaMint-BA_2010-02-17-0.u32535	Mr. Vice-President, distinguished colleagues and fellow MPs, respected ministers and guests, I would like to refer my question to the BiH Ministry of Human Rights and Refugees. So please answer me: 11 'What projects were implemented last year through the Return Fund, in which municipalities, what is the value of these projects that have been implemented and who is the contractor of these projects?' Thank you.
ParlaMint-BA_2010-02-17-0.u32536	Thank you. The next is Remzija Kadrić, a respected representative.
ParlaMint-BA_2010-02-17-0.u32537	I thank you, Chairman. I have two short questions. First, is it: ‘Is projekt cijevni 1 and 2 respected all the necessary procedures provided for by the Law on concessions and other regulations, and is the project mentioned envisaged to move the riverbed to the left to the farmland of Bošnjak in the local community of Kotorska, Doboj Municipality? So this is a question I refer to the Government of the Republic of Slovenia. And the second question is to the Public TV System Committee: "What is the status of TV transmitters called “Jablanica” at Bijeljina, who is this transmitter under what conditions and according to what regulations does it benefit?" Thank you.
ParlaMint-BA_2010-02-17-0.u32538	Thank you. Next is Honorable Representative Rifat Dolić.
ParlaMint-BA_2010-02-17-0.u32539	Gentlemen Chairman, colleagues and colleagues, distinguished guests, I have two parliamentary questions. The first question is the Minister of Finance in the BiH Council of Ministers: 'What is the legal procedure until final decisions on the financial borrowing of municipalities, cantons and other institutions of government in BiH are made in the case of commercial banks and other financial institutions and what are the legal mechanisms for the revision and assessment of the eligibility of such borrowing, given that such borrowings are increasingly used to finance election programmes and projects without economic justification and to cover budgetary delinquencies resulting from irresponsible budget allocations?' I ask this question because the news of decisions taken by municipal councils, congregations and parliaments on borrowing in commercial banks and other financial institutions has recently become our daily life. This situation may be caused by the desire to mitigate and address the consequences of the crisis and recession, but this borrowing is increasingly recognised by the plans to finance election programmes and projects ahead of the upcoming general elections in 12 BiH. In a reduced commitment to budgets, it is easy to reach out to debtors who have no clear economic justification and who buy voter confidence in the elections. According to available data in the past few months in this way, and motivated by elections, BiH's debt has been increased by more than 400 million KM and decisions are being prepared for more than 800 million KM without a stand-by arrangement programme under way. The second question is to the Council for the Press of BiH: 'In what way and who are objecting to the work of print media and journalists in situations where the printed media is going abroad in the languages of the people of BiH, and the journalist is staying and writing from BiH and about the events in BiH?' There are more and more situations abroad where print magazines in the languages of the people of BiH are being written by journalists who have citizenship and stay in BiH and write from BiH about the BiH events. This type of writing is often used by hate language and is insulted and slandered by all the rules that apply to BiH, and it is difficult to refer from BiH to rules that apply to a country where the print medium comes out and ignores the denials and corrections of the untrues published. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-BA_2010-02-17-0.u32540	Thank you. The next is the distinguished representative Azra Alajbegović.
ParlaMint-BA_2010-02-17-0.u32541	Dear Chairman, colleagues and guests, I have a question for the BiH Identification Document Agency, which reads: "Why are BiH citizens who take out a passport abroad discriminated against BiH citizens who draw out a CIPS ID card in BiH regarding the right to passive registration in the Central Election List?" The Agency for Identification Documents routinely delivers all data to the CEC on BiH citizens who take out their ID card to include in the Central Election List. The Agency's current leadership refuses to provide such data on BiH citizens taking out a passport. This discrimination results in different treatment between citizens who are abroad and who have removed the passport and who have never taken out their ID card, although according to BiH's laws, the passport has an identical status for the purpose of exercising electoral rights. People living outside BiH are therefore denied the basic human rights to choose and be elected because of the complicated registration procedure in the Central Election List. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-BA_2010-02-17-0.u32542	Thank you. The next is distinguished representative Husein Nanić. 13
ParlaMint-BA_2010-02-17-0.u32543	I thank you, Chairman. My fellow Members and fellow Members, I would like to ask the question today of the Minister of Transport and Communications of BiH, and this is the following: 'We could learn from the means of information that certain activities are being carried out in the construction of the road from the mouth of Lashva to the Lower Vakuf. A certain estimate is that it costs about 600 million marks and is doing a feasibility study that should be done, media information reported in February. I ask the question and ask this ministry for an answer on current activities, officially, means on current activities and plans on the project, and are there plans to build the rest of the road from Lower Vakuf to Bihac?" Thank you.
ParlaMint-BA_2010-02-17-0.u32544	Thank you. The next is distinguished representative Branko Dokić.
ParlaMint-BA_2010-02-17-0.u32545	Thank you, Mr. Chairman. My question is addressed to the BiH Council of Ministers and directly chairing Dr Nikola Špirić. The question is: "Why did the Council of Ministers of BiH not resolve the damages of the Starovlah family by diplomatic means with NATO representatives, and why did the BiH Ministry of Foreign Affairs accept a unilateral decision by which the damages of the Starovlah family were rejected?" I ask the Chairman of the Council of Ministers, Dr Nikola Špirić, that he personally engages in this matter." Reason: You know that I asked that question almost two years and two years ago. Seven. In 2009, I received a response from the Council of Ministers for which NATO refused the damage claim by Starovllah because, they say, the damage is the result of NATO's operational activities and cannot be considered as such by the Commission for damages or arbitration court. I remind you that there is an agreement in the Dayton Peace Agreement between NATO and BiH on which at point 16, I now quote: "The disputes over the interpretation or application of the current agreement will be resolved between BiH and NATO by diplomatic means." So diplomatic means, not a unilateral decision, as accepted by the Foreign Ministry. I would like to remind you that all the experts and all the experts from those with VMA to those in Tuzla and from here in Sarajevo have proven unquestionably that it was, I would say, a deliberate injury to people who were beaten with blunt objects and who were caused great material damage. One of those who died in that, let's call it, action, I'd say one brutal violence, one young man who was 29 at that time, who finished college today 100% disabled and can't even get out of the yard of his house. 14 I would also like to remind you why I am now updating this issue. In fact, the 22nd month has been scheduled before the BiH Court of Justice for debate on the issue and the Starovlah family will be re-exposed, not only to material costs but also to severe pain, seeking a variety of testimonies and recalling what happened at the moment. I would like to remind you that BiH is bound by the Charter of the UN and also by the Constitutional Court's decisions on some other issues (I would not have read it to you) if it were not able to reach a diplomatic agreement, which apparently did not occur, that it itself compensated for the damage. This is a fundamental question of respect for human rights in this country, and I think everything should be done as soon as possible. And therefore, in this parliamentary matter, it is my request to the chairman of the Council of Ministers to personally engage in the final solution to this issue. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-BA_2010-02-17-0.u32546	Thank you. The next is the esteemed representative of Zlatko Lagumdžija.
ParlaMint-BA_2010-02-17-0.u32547	I thank you, Mr. Chairman. As with my colleague Zorić, I would also like to ask that this argument be brought to the attention of the issue in writing. In fact, the direct cause for this question is what practically a colleague, Raguž, twice asked a similar question, and both times he received an answer that he was practically, for a reason, dissatisfied with. Namely, his question referred to what stage of the mandate, the Council of Ministers, or the Ministry of Finance and the Ministry of Refugees and Human Rights, was to find favourable credit arrangements to finance and implement projects of refugee and displaced persons' returns. And his question, after the first time he didn't get the right answer, he extended it because, is it -- what are the projections for the next period? He has again received an answer that is virtually unacceptable. On the other hand, we are currently also supporting the SDP to try to find a solution to the census. It is well known that one of the reasons, or one of the possible, is, to put it this way, a scenario by which the census would nevertheless involve resolving this particular issue which many have conditioned when adopting two budgets. It's known he's still so-called. The Prudic trinity practically defined this obligation and that is why some insisted from the Prussian trin to realize it, and each well-intentioned wanted it also to be realized. Why am I asking this question, or I'm not asking the same question, but a question about this in the hope that I will get an answer and that after the third time, the Council of Ministers will, in practice, give some... answer. Why this question? Because the answer we get is that you can actually see that it's practically: not that there's nothing to do, but there's reports being made, information that even tries to choose a bureaucratic dictionary to convince us to actually do something, and you see that it's actually so unacceptable that I don't have words to say. Namely, in the answer received, from the second time, it was consistent, beware, in response to the question that my colleague Raguž asked two months ago, it began from that, so the answer to what was going on: first it was said that 15 years ago a letter was written... a letter to the embassy's 25 address, so the embassies didn't answer. So it was realized that a presentation was being prepared, and then the word comes, however, which kills every serious further story, but the introduction is that although the Ministry of Human Rights delivered it, some foreigners, what a strange coincidence, asked for it to be delivered in English. Well, I guess that information says it was then delivered in English, but this program, I don't know if it's in English or in ours, is not in line with the Council of Ministers. I'd be surprised if it wasn't for this one in English. So it's being determined, careful, then there's a serious thing coming up, it's being found that the European Bank for Reconstruction and Development and the European Investment Bank have found no interest in this project. So there's no money from there. So it's been determined that we're headed to the Council of Europe Development Bank, and it's been determined that there's no money there, too. Then the Japanese Agency for International Co-operation appeared. They didn't realize anything, we just told them we had this need. Then the director for Latin America visited the OPEC Fund, and it was agreed to prepare a letter for the OPEC Fund, and was promised by the Saudi Fund that they would accept the programme when we deliver it to them. It's all in this information. So then an OPEC 7 million project was implemented, which OPEC said we should give them a draft agreement. Well, then the Ministry of Finance launched a membership procedure at the Asian Development Bank...
ParlaMint-BA_2010-02-17-0.u32548	Is there any more of that?
ParlaMint-BA_2010-02-17-0.u32549	very briefly, there's a little more,
ParlaMint-BA_2010-02-17-0.u32550	Three minutes ago.
ParlaMint-BA_2010-02-17-0.u32551	and the African Bank. And then, when we signed this deal with the Saudi Fund about four hospitals, we talked to them about how we needed money for this. And then it was agreed to send another letter to the Saudi Fund, after which the Ministry of Finance, imagine, connected the Saudi Fund with Minister Halilović. Now, when that happened, then there was the Kakanj-Granica highwayKakanj-Gračanica and there was a meeting with the Kuwaiti Fund with the refugee minister who explained to the Kuwaiti people that we needed it. And after that, it is said that the Ministry is working on a revised strategy... Why am I saying this?
ParlaMint-BA_2010-02-17-0.u32552	Please!
ParlaMint-BA_2010-02-17-0.u32553	Please, Mr. Živković, I'm done. This is the answer to the question: What about the capital project, on which the public in BiH expects something to happen? This is the answer to the two budgets that have been adopted because the money for the return will appear. 16 My question is: ‘When and how will there be sanctioned responsible for the non-execution of the Parliamentary Assembly's conclusions on the finding of favourable loans abroad for the financing and implementation of the return project of refugees and displaced persons, and when, how and when will the Council of Ministers implement this conclusion?’ I thank you for your patience.
ParlaMint-BA_2010-02-17-0.u32554	I thank you. Dear Ambassador Velimir Jukić and we are no longer registered. Here you go.
ParlaMint-BA_2010-02-17-0.u32555	Mr. President, colleagues and colleagues, representatives of the Council of Ministers, esteemed guests, I refer to the BiH Council of Ministers, SIPAs, the OSAs, the BiH Prosecutor's Office of the Federation of BiH, the Prosecutor's Office of the Western-Herzegovina County, the Federation's MUP and the Western-Herzegovina County. The question is: ‘What are these forwards doing in the light of all the circumstances and in determining the facts regarding the multi-annual illegal exploitation and sale of the mineral raw materials of boxite in the area of the municipality of Posje and Široki Brijeg?’ According to the information available: unknown, under alleged signs, the perpetrators have excavated and sold about 200 thousand tons of boxers over the past few years and have earned more than 10 million marks from sales. This quantity does not include the production of the Boxith Mines of Possje and Široki Brijeg. Namely, why did I make all the above mentioned questions apply to them? Because this kind of activity, in its nature, cannot happen without all those who need to know it and can see it. In fact, it is a very large amount of boxing that the unknown, under alleged signs, perpetrators have done for years and sold and thus damage the owner, and in this way is the owner of the state, or government, government at all levels and thus the individuals are rich. This cannot be done or done without an organised group and co-operation with the authorities. That's more than clear, because of the nature of this act. And that's why I referred this question to both the BiH Prosecutor's Office and the SIPA, estimating that this is about organised crime, because this cannot happen in the organization of only one, however, an individual without knowledge and cooperation and others. This has been happening for a long time, and I think it's time to do something and stop this, bearing in mind the fact that the Posjije Boxing Mines and the Shiroki Brieg used to hire over 900 workers, and today there are only 50 people who can barely afford to pay themselves, and at the same time there are more people who are illegally exploiting and actually stealing their potential products and they produce them and, of course, make themselves useful. Thank you. 17
ParlaMint-BA_2010-02-17-0.u32556	Thank you. I'm finishing item two on the agenda. Moving to point three, Ad. 3. The request of MP Sefer Halilović to consider the Bill on Amendments and Supplements to the Law on Service in the Armed Forces of BiH by an urgent procedure, in accordance with Article 127. Rules of Procedure Today we are only discussing this urgent request. I'm opening a debate on this request. Here you go. Dear Ambassador Sefer Halilović. Here you go.
ParlaMint-BA_2010-02-17-0.u32558	Dear Chairman, honourable fellow Members of Parliament, I do not think that there is much to be spent here that this law really requires an emergency procedure, because on March 1st of this year, professional military service stops a large number of persons or a certain number of persons (not so large) in the Armed Forces of BiH, and it is the members of the Army, the HVO and the Army of the RS. In this explanation it is written and described exactly how and how this could be solved. I'd just like to say two more sentences. First of all, I think one of these bad characteristics that we recognize in the world is that we produce a lot more history than we can handle and it's since '95. So far, for all these members of the Armed Forces of different armies, one elastic and human solution has been found, and now it's a number of veterans who have been in the Army or HVO since '91. Or '92. For years, it has been about people who have been in the military for almost 20 years and were nothing more than soldiers, and who are now in a very difficult and delicate situation. ... I think it's our duty to put this issue on the agenda at least in an emergency procedure and find a correct solution for this small number of people, because a solution has been found. Parliament and entity parliaments have so far found a solution for a far greater number of people than this one is here. Thank you.
ParlaMint-BA_2010-02-17-0.u32559	Thank you. Dear Member Azra Hadžiahmetović. Here you go.
ParlaMint-BA_2010-02-17-0.u32560	Thank you, Chairman. 18 Here, for this matter, I will say, the proposal, but also the problem that triggered this proposal from counterpart Halilović in the parliamentary procedure; it is about a problem that really deserves special attention, which is more about the eye, if I understand correctly, than 2,000 people, a problem that, above all, has a human dimension and is related to which no parliament and no government in this country can be ignored. We therefore respect the real initiative to meet this initiative in this way even if it is the initiating of this problem, that is to say, it is going towards the appropriate solutions. But there is something else, with this specific weight of the human dimension that this problem deserves, we have the other one, which is the cost of solving such a problem. Given the fact that we are on our way to membership, here I will particularly apostrophe to NATO, we also have appropriate requirements for NATO standards, we have and, of course, as a country that has a need, not only for Euro-Atlantic integration, but for a country that needs real employment and younger people, and taking care of all that, we are in favour of solving this problem, but not for an urgent procedure so that we do not get into the trap of other problems, or that we do not have a possible solution to one problem opening up problems somewhere else. We therefore appreciate that it would be a good idea for the promoter himself to propose a procedure for a shortened procedure, which he appreciates that there would be a better chance of providing all the answers to the issues that this problem requires. And here, we propose, we are ready to support the shortened procedure, to show about it the competent ministries, the commission, the resolution committee, the joint committee of the Parliamentary Assembly, and in that sense we are ready to support the shortened procedure. Thank you.
ParlaMint-BA_2010-02-17-0.u32561	Thank you. Dear Ambassador Šefik Džaferović. Here you go.
ParlaMint-BA_2010-02-17-0.u32562	Mr. Chairman, colleagues and colleagues, I would just like to remind you that on this topic we had a debate at the BiH Parliamentary Assembly on the basis of one information that came from the Ministry of Defence through the Joint Defence and Security Commission and that the BiH Parliament through both homes, at least I know about this home, accepted that information and actually gave guidance to the Ministry of Defence on how to behave. This is, of course, a top topic, a very important topic, a sensitive topic. On this subject, it is also possible to earn political points, and it is possible to lose political points. I only call on us here in BiH to face this issue seriously and responsibly and to solve the matter by allowing the country to move normally through its reform path and through NATO integration, on the one hand, and, on the other hand, to protect, as far as possible, or the maximum rights of any individual within the framework of the BiH Armed Forces structure. And it's supposed to be, actually it's supposed to be, between those two things is actually the street or the road that we need to move on. 19 And, several times at the Defence Commission, we listened to the defence minister and the defence minister's representative on this subject, and I want to say today that we in the SDA, of course, are very interested in resolving this issue in the best possible way to allow the country a normal path to NATO's alliance and, on the other hand, to fully protect the rights of these people. So let's see what it is. And, without information from the Department of Defense on this subject, we're simply not able to today, we're not prepared to support one of these emergency procedures that excludes any debate, any analysis. We want to hear simply the Ministry of Defense what they say on this subject. So we are close to the attitude expressed by distinguished counterpart Azra Hadžiahmetović. That's it, thank you.
ParlaMint-BA_2010-02-17-0.u32563	Thank you. Dear Ambassador Slavko Matić. Here you go.
ParlaMint-BA_2010-02-17-0.u32564	Thank you very much, Mr. President. My colleagues and fellow representatives, respected guests, there are certainly justified reasons for the haste procedure, i.e. procedure under Article 127. First of all, it is about short changes, a small volume of changes and the need for a hasty response to the problem that has already arisen. On the other hand, we have already heard one or two reasons from previous colleagues and colleagues in explaining this request for a hasty procedure to still be a shortened procedure. I'm going to say another reason why this should still go to a shortened, rather than a hasty procedure. And that reason, for him, was given to me by the legislator of this law, speaking of the content of the law itself, i.e. Article 1 proposed, referring to former members of the BiH Army, the Croatian Defence Council, the RS Army. The content here is not said what period it refers to, and I said it thinks it should be preferable to people who have been here since '91. Or '92. were members. You can't see that from this law. And if we are willing to adopt something like this, this proposal should suffer a certain amendment action and state exactly what time it refers to. Because it should be recalled that these units existed even after '95, and in the Federation and at the state level in particular, until the creation of the joint Armed Forces was also the BiH Army, and the Croatian Defence Council, and the RS Army, not to mention, and '97. and 98'. and 99's, so it's a much longer period than the period of war conflict. I would like to remind myself that, as a representative at the 70th session, I asked the same question for the initiative that my colleague Halilović launched and which we adopted at our previous session with the foundation proposed by his colleague Halilović. But I really think it would be good, for all the reasons, to adopt a shortened procedure today, rather than a hasty procedure, to get the possibility of us acting in amendment to this text, so that we can get time, which is also noticed by counterpart Džaferović that we also get an official written statement and the Ministry of Defence from the Council of Ministers and perhaps other interested institutions and bodies. Thank you. 20
ParlaMint-BA_2010-02-17-0.u32565	Thank you. The next is the Honorable Chairman, Dr. Milorad Živković.
ParlaMint-BA_2010-02-17-0.u32566	Thank you. It simply cannot be avoided to talk here about the need for law-making as well as whether the urgent proposal is appropriate at this time. I expect the Ministry of Defence to come out here and say whether there is a need to pass the law, and then to say that this law is urgent; however, the problem it solves is not since yesterday. We passed the law, people who are in the Armed Forces of BiH know from 2005 what will happen on 1 March this year. The Ministry knew and made various programs, training and human training that would be out of work here. NATO standards and other military forces are also known in the environment on which this problem should be addressed and, it seems to me, apart from the urgency of this law as a law, the problem is not from yesterday and could have been resolved much earlier. I even think that at the last session of the Assembly we could propose a shortened procedure so that we can hear everything, and our commission, and our Army Ombudsman, the armed forces currently on the road, what he thinks about all this trouble. There was no need to take or leave the proposal at the last session before March 1st. If there's a need, let's talk about this, let's go through all the data and not play around here who's a bigger humanitarian in this country and who's going to solve social issues this way, if the law was passed in 2005. Let us all have a commitment to the people, but we also have an obligation to act seriously and properly in our dealings with those with whom we have made this law. Let's hear what the presidency has to say about this. Here it is constantly referencing to a dissent; I, as far as I know, no reserve composition has been formed in BiH, to see what's going on and then to open a debate on these proposals. I therefore expect the Ministry of Defence to include itself in telling us whether there is a need to discuss this law, and if there is, then the law cannot be proposed by 127, but by 126, to give the possibility and amendment action. Dear Ambassador Salko Sokolović. Here you go.
ParlaMint-BA_2010-02-17-0.u32567	Thank you, Mr. Chairman. It is certain that we should have discussed this matter earlier, but here is what we have today. I think we should have some answer to this question today as to how further the ceasefire of the BiH Armed Forces contract. Perhaps it is a good solution here suggested that this, however, I would ask the promoter to go in this direction, not to be an emergency procedure but to be shortened, that and what the chairman was talking about earlier, we look at all this problem and we find in some way an adequate solution. I don't think this is a question of social character, but this is still another question that affects the morality of a legal solution. Laws when they are passed: they are written and in the parliamentary procedure of people, proposing certain additions and changes, bringing little and soul into these 21 legal solutions. And I think that we should look at this in a different way and look to find a solution that we too will be satisfied with, which will be able to meet the obligations towards the international community and NATO, and that people whose contractual obligations stop are not those who will be forced into the street. It's right now, when you talk to these people, that kind of situation -- they're going to go out on the street. I'll remind you that they signed those contracts at the moment when they had only one option, actually two options: take it or leave it. I believe it was then written at the end of the contract that after four years in the professional army they would be imprisoned or killed: they would sign to stay for four years, to have existence, after all, and four years. Many of them have taken over the obligations of a credit character, are the only fosterers of the family, have children, and I think we need to talk in a different way on this subject and find a certain solution. And maybe this brief procedure is the possibility that we can all look at this problem one more time and find a solution that we'll all be satisfied with. There were stories here about NATO standards as well. As far as I know, and I think I have good information, NATO doesn't limit years. They limit the training and equipment of soldiers. And in that direction, when it comes to NATO standards, we need to think, not about age. So, about the equipment and training of these soldiers, because here we have, whether, there is a recent past of aggression on BiH and we know how the armies were filling in. Niko said it was 30 or 35 or 20 years. Everyone took the gun and it was what it was. So we don't need to forget it, and we need to get this category of people who need to lose their jobs tomorrow, get out on the street, help them in some way adapt, find a new job, and provide for their families. Now, why the Department of Defense, why we've spent so much time here and we didn't know in the end how it would all end, now it's a couple of questionnaires... and here maybe even through these discussions we can get some answers. Here, I would also ask, in the end, the promoter that, in a brief procedure, we solve this issue and, by common agreement through amendments, which would probably be some other character, we try to solve this situation. Thank you.
ParlaMint-BA_2010-02-17-0.u32568	Thank you. Dear Ambassador Savo Erić. Here you go.
ParlaMint-BA_2010-02-17-0.u32569	Thank you, Madam Chairman. Dear colleagues and colleagues, esteemed guests, we are masters when there are issues to be resolved and we always ask these questions at 12 and 5. If we knew in 2005, we'd be in this position, so we should have used those funds, requalified those people. They'd be doing their part of the job today, having their little jobs, doing business, doing, being useful, their families and their children would certainly have a way and leading where they're going. And since we haven't done that, then we'll have juvenile delinquency and child abduction, stealing and soon breaking into apartments. Now they're breaking into bookies, and then they're gonna break into apartments. That's one question. 22 Secondly, what makes me unable to support this emergency procedure and I object, means how much it costs, whether we've foreseen this budget and whether this little budget can withstand this kind of pressure and this kind of isolation. We know for ourselves that the budget that we have made for the Armed Forces is too big for this country and that we should have thought about it if we are on our way to the EU then we should think completely in the other direction. Who are we going to defend from? We know we don't have anyone. We have experience of investing in the last joint state in the tanks we've now cut. We better be developing business and business. So we didn't take care of it. And what's unclear to me in the other part, means what's the number of people? And if it's real, it means absolutely we can decide all that. And I'd like to ask the Proposer to try to pull it off so we can see a better solution, because we really don't need to play with these people, because they're now deadlocked. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-BA_2010-02-17-0.u32570	Thank you. Is there a need for someone from the Department of Defense? Dear Deputy Marina Pendeš. Here you go.
ParlaMint-BA_2010-02-17-0.u32571	Gentlemen Chairman, ladies and gentlemen, I can say in front of the Ministry of Defence that yesterday in the afternoon we received this initiative to amend the law, and as the Ministry of Defence in this regard we have failed to consult and analyse more closely when it comes to this hasty procedure, and in some ways I believe that the Ministry of Defence cannot affect parliamentarians in the sense of this initiative in which the debate will be conducted. I will probably repeat myself, but it is not burning, given that the Ministry of Defence has worked intensively over the past two years to prepare NATO... the fund when it comes to taking care of people who will no longer meet the conditions defined by this law adopted this year in 2005. And I think that the gentlemen of the clubs, I suppose, presented most of it and that this was the topic of not one Commission for the Defence and Security of both Houses of the Parliamentary Assembly but also several sessions of the Presidency. We have tried according to the money we have, according to the budget approved by Parliament, or by the Presidency, to allocate 2 million marks (in fact the million Ministry of Defence, we have received a million from the Government of Norway) to justify NATO... the fund and expect another 2 million from the Scandinavian countries in order to help these people in case there is no change of this law in order to try to retrain them and allow them to justify some of their private businesses. We have launched another initiative within the Ministry of Defence that we have certain services, which we have so far with certain suppliers, the type of canteen cleaning and other, we try to get these people to form companies and to be the providers of these services. So, from the point of view of the Ministry of Defence, I don't think we're able to say at this point that this hasty procedure is necessary, but it still takes all those who participated in the creation of the law, in creating certain activities, given the 10th month of last year, that we have received confirmation from both homes of the Parliamentary Assembly for those activities that 23 we have foreseen as the Ministry of Defence, then it is now throwing out another light. So it takes some time for us to evaluate it.
ParlaMint-BA_2010-02-17-0.u32572	Thank you. Dear Ambassador Sefer Halilovć. Here you go.
ParlaMint-BA_2010-02-17-0.u32573	I'd just like to briefly answer some questions that have been asked. So I didn't ask this question 5 to 12, but exactly at 12 and 5, because this issue has been being handled for months, and that's what Mr. at the Ministry of Defence is doing, so for almost a year this issue has been under discussion and talks on how to find a solution: Ministry of Defence – Presidency – Command, etc. And really intimately, I expected this question to be sort of resolved earlier. That's why I've asked this question in this way now. The second is, is this where they get or lose political points? For me, this is more of a moral issue; it's a relatively small group of people compared to that huge army we had in '95. For years, we've now burned down some 2,000 people that need to be solved this way. Third, is there any money or no money? I think there's enough money in this country, but we can't take it. We can't collect them. Just here's the last piece of information from the Federation Parliament is that during last year concessions not charged in the Federation are 400 million marks. Now take these 2,000 men to those. So obviously the money has, we just need to be a little bit more energetic, a little faster to charge them. And finally, I will be happy to accept this shortened procedure, but the procedure to put this issue in Parliament, to resolve this issue. So this question deserves, this is a moral question, it's not even political, it's not getting some cheap or expensive points, because if you get on one side, you lose here. So, I'm not thinking politically here, I'm thinking human. These people have been since '92. The years to this day in the armies or in the army deserve us to find an adequate solution for them. That's it.
ParlaMint-BA_2010-02-17-0.u32574	Thank you. I understand from your discussion that you're giving up on article 127 and you're suggesting that it go 126. Right? Thank you. Dear Ambassador Bakir Izetbegović. Here you go. 24
ParlaMint-BA_2010-02-17-0.u32575	Oh, Minister Pendeš. So we're particularly interested in the NATO relationship, the age of soldiers. If we can continue, we normally want to help these people stay for a while, but will we then compromise our plans against NATO? Next week we have a special session of both homes and I've asked a similar question. So what has the Ministry done and what can we do, what can the Parliamentary Assembly do and what can the Council of Ministers do for this category of people? So please, that's seven days, maybe by then you can give an answer... for NATO. Thank you.
ParlaMint-BA_2010-02-17-0.u32576	Thank you. Since it has already been accepted in principle by the promoters to give up 127 and 126, we have enough time to consider these issues and then try to resolve it. Since there are no more reports, we move to agenda item four: Ad. 4. Proposal for a Law on Amendments and Supplements to the Law on Foreign Direct Investment Policy in BiH – Proposer: Council of Ministers of BiH (second reading) At the 69th session of the House, held on 12. One, this law was adopted in the first reading. The competent Commission for Foreign Trade and Customs submitted the report 1. 2. with one amendment adopted. The 71st session adopted a conclusion delaying the declaration of this law. The Commission for Foreign Trade and Customs is 15. 2. it informed that, in cooperation with the legislator, it concluded that there were no new aspects for the application of Article 118(3). Meanwhile, we have received from the SNSD's Club of MPs two amendments that are of a technical nature and...on the back of new aspects, if Parliament accepts these arguments. I'm opening a debate. Dear Ambassador Slavko Jovićić. Here you go.
ParlaMint-BA_2010-02-17-0.u32578	Dear Mr. Chairman, ladies and gentlemen, the distinguished guests, well, because of this law we had three or four sessions of the Commission and at the last we had, as you specifically stated, one undefined conclusion of Parliament, because it gave us the opportunity to discuss it, but it was not possible in business, because exactly what you said was not new aspects. And we scheduled that session of this committee, we held it, and if you remember that last session I really asked the Kolegijum to find all the business opportunities for this law to pass, a very important law. We're all looking for something here, and when someone comes and wants to help and buy, then we're limiting it. 25 So here are these new aspects, and I hope that a compromise solution can be found here, especially leaving the possibility for entity governments to negotiate directly with potential customers and what I said at last session, if we don't trust an entity government, then I ask myself who will believe me. Who trusts us and anyone else? So, it's always a matter of trust here. But here, if such a possibility is left that the entity government can say - this is acceptable to us or not, but legally there is a possibility that they can agree. So it would be very simple for this law to get support today, which I repeat again, here's how we adopt it, so you'll see tomorrow, read the paper, no news. In the last five months, we've passed five key economic laws, nobody writes anything. And yesterday, the press is calling me, "Who receives and how much in ad hoc commissions, where was who abroad?" It's like I'm an information service. I'm saying, people don't waste me on this nonsense, you're going to. Come to Parliament and write a sentence: "The law has been adopted to help the collapse and the fallen economy to make the people live better." No one will. Here, today let's adopt this, at least see if the sentence comes out tomorrow. And whoever lets me know that there's a sentence about this is from me. At least I'll buy him something. But not to caricate. This is the people's fate of this country. This is the fate of this people to live better, to help wherever we can. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-BA_2010-02-17-0.u32579	Thank you. Dear Ambassador Slavko Matić. Here you go.
ParlaMint-BA_2010-02-17-0.u32580	Thank you. At our previous session, on the occasion of the debate on the law mentioned, I proposed on behalf of the HDZ Club a conclusion on the postponement of the plea. The only goal in proposing such a conclusion was to save that law that day so that it would not fall upon the plea. For the HDZ Club, this law is also acceptable in the current text, but these amendments are also acceptable if they save and give pass to this law at Parliament's House of Representatives. The only goal we're handling is to finally pass this law. We think it will enable and facilitate foreign investment and from previous discussions, which I would not repeat today, it is evident that foreign investment in BiH has been falling rapidly for the past three years. It wouldn't be good to stick to strict form today and say that the amendments aren't, I don't know, invested in the Rules of Procedure, etc. If there is a willingness to compromise, if these amendments are acceptable to others, or to the majority that is sufficient to pass the law, then for the HDZ Club they are acceptable and amendments, it is also acceptable to the law without amendments, but let us get to the form and the restraint that can get most today in Parliament.
ParlaMint-BA_2010-02-17-0.u32581	Thank you. 26 Dear Messenger Bajazit Jašarević. Here you go.
ParlaMint-BA_2010-02-17-0.u32582	Dear Mr. Chairman, ladies and gentlemen, this new amendment to the SNSD's Club of Representatives is on the trail of a debate held at the last session, and it, in its capacity, meets the needs of the positions set out in this debate. So what I'm asking is style, language. This is about the position (a) which refers to companies dealing with production, etc., and public information. Now I ask those who have suggested this, "Is this where you should be standing in this parentheses other than a public information company?" It's just that, apart from the public, it seems to me that it's clear like this, but if the language was further explained there, it would be: except for companies dealing with public information. That would be the style of this proposal... the law on amendments to the law. If the SNSD Club thinks it's unnecessary, it seems to me that there's a sufficient level of consent in this as well. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-BA_2010-02-17-0.u32583	Thank you. If you'll excuse me, since I wrote that amendment on behalf of the SNSD Club this morning. Any wording that is legal and nomotechnically appropriate – we accept that it is written. Thank you.
ParlaMint-BA_2010-02-17-0.u32584	No microphone turned on
ParlaMint-BA_2010-02-17-0.u32585	Here you go.
ParlaMint-BA_2010-02-17-0.u32586	If you'll excuse me, we've analyzed the views expressed at the last session and we've come to this point that it should stand 'except for companies dealing with public information' because it is, or please, 'except companies', because the Ministry has inserted the term 'economic societies'. Now we have this, there are companies everywhere in the dedicated industry and public enterprises, in public information. And now it's: whether enterprises or companies, so here's to agree together what's happier.
ParlaMint-BA_2010-02-17-0.u32587	Until the vote, we have time to bring that formulation into line.
ParlaMint-BA_2010-02-17-0.u32588	If we agree to that, then we'd agree to the answer to those demands. Thank you very much. 27
ParlaMint-BA_2010-02-17-0.u32589	Thank you. Dear Ambassador Adem Huskić. Here you go.
ParlaMint-BA_2010-02-17-0.u32590	Thank you, Mr. Chairman. I'll do it very briefly. Let me just say that as far as the BiH Party is concerned, we will support this law and this amendment. But I also agree with what you said and maybe it wouldn't be bad, when I've already answered, to say that there may be a group of three or four people who will eventually agree on a text that is acceptable to everyone. It's acceptable like this, but let's make a better version of the text and then vote it out; when it's voted, let's pass the law. Thank you.
ParlaMint-BA_2010-02-17-0.u32591	Thank you. Do you agree that those who have discussed will be the ones who will discuss with the president of the SNSD Club and agree? Thank you. I'm closing the debate. We're going to point five, Ad. 5. Proposal for a law on the application of the results of deoxyribonucleic acid analysis in court proceedings – Proposer: Council of Ministers of BiH (first reading) The BiH Council of Ministers of Law delivered the proposal in parliamentary procedure 21. 1. 2010 The respective Constitutional Legal Commission's opinion on the basis and principles of the law delivered 12. 2. 2010 and supported them. I'm opening a debate on the bill in the first reading. Someone would say DNA. Here you go. Dear Ambassador Šefik Džaferović.
ParlaMint-BA_2010-02-17-0.u32593	Mr. Chairman, colleagues and colleagues, ladies and gentlemen, the Constitutional Commission has discussed this law, it is a very, very important law, especially when it comes to proving certain facts in court proceedings. I think this introduces a revolution and progress in that area. We think the law is in line with the BiH Constitution, that the principles of the law are acceptable. And what led me to the need to report today for the discussion is to tell you that we in the Constitutional Legal Commission have chosen to conduct a kind of 28 expert public debate here. To get a little more familiar with the public through this debate, to invite some experts, even from outside, who will say what this means, to explain this a little bit more in detail, more widely, and more easily explain to the wider circle of the citizens of this country, because I am this term while saying this deoxyribonucleic acid, here I see people running away... and it's a revolutionary thing. I suggest that this law be adopted in the first reading. That's it, thank you.
ParlaMint-BA_2010-02-17-0.u32594	Desoxyribonucleic acid is a DNA match, we can easily use it. The Constitutional Commission has the right to open a public debate without the assembly's conclusion. So we've been informed that the Constitutional Commission has decided to open a public hearing on this law. Let's move on with the discussions. Dear Ambassador Remzija Kadrić. Here you go.
ParlaMint-BA_2010-02-17-0.u32595	I thank you, Chairman. I'm just going to read two sentences from the Explanation and because of the important two sentences that require the adoption of the bill in addition to everything. In this section, below 4. The consultations, among other things, said: 'Recommendation on the application of DNA analysis in criminal justice system number 92 and the Committee of Ministers of the Council of Europe's Member States was accepted at the 470th session, held on 10 February 1992. 'years.' And at the end of this section, he says: "The draft law was made available to the public through the Justice Ministry's website for the purpose of making observations and suggestions to the High Judicial and Prosecutorial Council of BiH, the Court of BiH, the Prosecutor's Office of BiH, but there were no objections." So it's important to adopt this law. We have this one good explanation. However, I agree with the chairman of the Constitutional Commission that the public should be fully aware of the proposal for this law, which should be accepted as such. I'm sorry.
ParlaMint-BA_2010-02-17-0.u32596	Thank you. Dear Ambassador Azra Alajbegović. Here you go.
ParlaMint-BA_2010-02-17-0.u32597	Respecting the chairman, ladies and gentlemen, I would like first of all to really thank the Proposer for the bill on applying the results of the DNA analysis in court proceedings because I believe that in some way our judiciary will receive a quality law which will be the basis for a fair and fair judicial solution. What I would only like to say is, in fact, that the DNA analysis in BiH in the last 16 years has been present in the entire segment, especially in the missing persons segment, so that the introduction of this DNA register and all that this law treats, especially with regard to forensic DNA 29 registers, will certainly be one good basis of prevention and delinquency of juvenile and crime, given that we will have one such registry. I would just say that I hope that the Agency for Forensic Studies and Skills at the Ministry of Security of BiH and for the establishment and maintenance of DNA databases will, in a way, provide, in a way, specificly presented regulations and sublegal acts that will enable the DNA to be fully analyzed, while at the same time, passing on to the data procedures of these analyses and in any case also preventing the use of DNA analysis, because we have to take care of that as well. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-BA_2010-02-17-0.u32598	Thank you. First Vice-President, honourable Ambassador Niko Lozančić.
ParlaMint-BA_2010-02-17-0.u32599	Thank you, Mr. President. Ladies and gentlemen of the MPs, distinguished guests, well, we really do today, I think that's what my colleague Džaferović said, a revolutionary law in BiH that for the first time regulates something that we are, I will look at it more clearly these days, so I say, mostly in movies and study the wonders and possibilities of scientific technological development that allows certain procedures to provide reliable evidence and reliable information about perpetrators of criminal offences, but not only criminals but also in civil relations to certain facts that occur in such proceedings. So far, this area has been covered by one of the rules of the Justice Ministry which has tried, I would say, to make up for something that was not, we have not had the law so far, and unfortunately, given the fact that in BiH this long after war use of these DNAs, so to speak, analysis of the identification of numerous victims of crime that occurred in BiH and it is very important that given the fact and the fact, I will say, on the one hand to joy but unfortunately, because these circumstances that I was talking about have produced such a situation, we have excellent experts in this area and it is a very good intention of the Constitutional Commission to maintain this topic public debate so that truly very competent people could say very competently and what they think of the proposal of this law. I have spoken with some of them and asked the basis of these conversations, to say, how to really get to the quality of the law and suggestions that I believe will appear in the public debate; they say that first, it should already be said in the debate, make the name of this law more understandable, and I think there is an opportunity to simplify, so to speak, the name, the name of the law itself. On the other hand, this bill did not answer some of the questions that would be necessary to answer, which have so far been defined by this regulation, and it would be necessary if we had already passed the law that they were in law. In any case support for this draft, support intends to create a public debate on this law and I expect that through the amendment phase we will have the opportunity to, and using the experience from this public debate, really contribute, so to speak, that we have a very good law. 30 Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-BA_2010-02-17-0.u32600	Thank you. No more reports. No Niko from the Council of Ministers has a need? Thank you. Moving to the sixth item of the agenda: Ad. Six. Proposal for a Law on Amendments and Supplements to the Labour Act in BiH institutions – Proposer: Council of Ministers of BiH (first reading) The Council of Ministers delivered to the parliamentary procedure of Bill 28. 1. 2010 The respective Constitutional Legal Commission delivered its Opinion on the basic principles of the law 12. 2. Also, she supported both the basics and principles. I'm opening a debate on the bill in the first reading. The second vice-president, Mr. Beriz Belkić. Here you go.
ParlaMint-BA_2010-02-17-0.u32602	My motive for reporting is to have a dilemma with me, to say the least, and to have some remarks. So I absolutely support this approach to carry out some kind of analysis of the effects of law enforcement; in this case here five years is this law in force, twice the changes have already been made. And I am pleased that the processor, i.e. the initiator, is proposing that the Council of Ministers go in the direction of eliminating what the practice has shown to be inefficient, difficult to implement or unscathed solutions. There are a great deal of these changes, as many as 47 of them are there, and I see that when it comes to information, or the transparency of the whole process, I see that these so-called. public consultations for about 20 days and the result is that only the Ministry of Justice reacted with someone, at least that's how the Explanation writes, reacted with some suggestions and these public consultations were carried out through the website. Why am I saying this? Practice already shows... that the post-festum, when the laws of this nature are at stake, occurs primarily in the media of stakeholders who show that this law did not reflect their specificity, their determination of specific laws, their independence, the need for special regulation, etc. So, I would ask the promoters to say whether in these changes and additions, a respectable position of certain agencies, certain services that have been given special laws and rules so that we do not have a situation to post a festum, when we finish here, some institutions that claim that the amendments and additions to their independence have been compromised, their status being questioned, etc. 31 So, in principle, I absolutely support it, but I'm saying that I'm afraid that in this case too, we don't happen to have interested parties, so to speak, pointing out that these amendments and additions question, by some law, other laws, their special status established.
ParlaMint-BA_2010-02-17-0.u32603	Dear Ambassador Remzija Kadrić. Here you go.
ParlaMint-BA_2010-02-17-0.u32604	I thank you, Chairman. So, in this sense, what Beriz was saying, let me just say a few sentences. Therefore, the draft law was mainly brought to the attention of the BiH Ministry of Justice employees and was discussed by most who were partly incorporated into the text of the law, so only by the justice ministry. But here in the preceding sentences, it is said that the reasons were for the adoption of this law. The reasons for the adoption of this law on amendments and additions to the Law on Labour in BiH institutions are based on real labour needs stemming from the practical application of the Labour Act in BiH institutions, the Law on State Service in BiH institutions, and the harmonisation of the same with the Law on Payments and Refunds in BiH institutions. So there are several reasons for the adoption of this law on amendments and additions to the Labour Act. For these reasons, it might be good for the same Constitutional Commission, or some other commission, to conduct some kind of debate that other institutions, employees of institutions, deliver their opinions, suggestions and suggestions to receive one general support in such a way without getting into a situation to pass some provisions of the law and to later be intervention.
ParlaMint-BA_2010-02-17-0.u32605	Dear Ambassador Bakir Izetbegović. Here you go.
ParlaMint-BA_2010-02-17-0.u32606	So, in terms of the disrepute of pregnant women and the uncoveredness of their pregnancy status, we know that, in fact, these issues have been discriminatoryly resolved in state institutions. Article 33 states: 'A new section is added behind Article 86, whose name is the Prohibition of Discrimination.' And then they implement this law banning this discrimination, in order to retain discrimination in Article 104 against pregnant women, saying in article 1, 'Until the adoption of BiH laws that prescribe the health care of employees, pension-inhabited insurance and other types of social protection of employees, the laws and other laws of the entity and the Brcko District of BiH will apply'... So I think this finally needs to be, that this is an opportunity to fix this thing compared to pregnant women working in state institutions. The SDA Club will also insist that this matter be resolved within 60 days, through amendments to the law or to some conclusion today that we will ask this ministry to resolve the matter within 60 days. Thank you.
ParlaMint-BA_2010-02-17-0.u32607	Look at Article 16 and he regulated that question. 32 Dear Ambassador Šefik Džaferović. Here you go.
ParlaMint-BA_2010-02-17-0.u32608	So, Mr. Chairman, about what Mr. Bakir Izetbegović was talking about, you cannot say that you have met one of the key European standards by installing in the Labour Act provisions that are tasked with preventing discrimination, and then leaving one provision that actually legalises the discrimination that we now have in the BiH system, because the two workers working here in Parliament are sitting in the same office and doing the same job, being treated differently, and one of them is discriminated against by the other. And this isn't done. I also think it is possible to do as my colleague Izetbegović said, but it is possible to do this: that the Council of Ministers should make a decision and resolve the issue. Let the law be applied, just let one be applied. So let's make it equal to the law to be in the same position. We simply can't look at that thing anymore, we can't stand it anymore, or maybe someone can, but then he has to tell us why he's taking it and how. That's it, thank you.
ParlaMint-BA_2010-02-17-0.u32609	Dear Ambassador Husein Nanić. Here you go.
ParlaMint-BA_2010-02-17-0.u32610	I thank you, Chairman. Here, I share the thoughts of my colleagues who had previously expressed their opinions on this law. What I would like to mention here, note one to this ministry, in general to the Council of Ministers, in the delivery of these texts of the laws, especially those that have major interventions: we have 47 members of the law here and I would like to have the original version delivered to us in the preparation of this law and in addition to the version that is changing, so that it would be easier, given that we have also shortened the deadlines for the delivery of amendments, etc., to facilitate the preparation of our MPs in the debate on this law. And the next thing, given that 47 members are changing, indeed a lot, it would be good for this ministry to predict and produce the consolidated text of this law, given that a more significant change in this proposal itself is. Thank you.
ParlaMint-BA_2010-02-17-0.u32611	Dear Member Azra Hadžiahmetović. Here you go.
ParlaMint-BA_2010-02-17-0.u32612	Thank you, Chairman. I do not have a replica, nor a business intervention, but I have a parliamentary comment to express my satisfaction that here in this parliamentary debate several participants, here I must say, especially now, although I really do not want to stress it, my fellow MPs, hear arguments in favour of the adoption of legal solutions, or the resolution of one problem which, from 33 years ago, was proposed by a law, whose proposed law, unfortunately, was misunderstood and I want to believe and therefore was rejected in parliamentary procedure. I do not really want to apostrophe the specific weight of the problem here because it is well known, but I would like to stress that the discriminatory provisions that we have in practice here, regardless of what steps have been taken, after that failed attempt to pass the law can lead us to Strasbourg, or to pay a lot more damage than it would be to equalise the rights of employees to which the provisions of the same law apply, when it comes to working in the state institutions. Thank you.
ParlaMint-BA_2010-02-17-0.u32613	The next is the Honorable Chairman, Dr. Milorad Živković.
ParlaMint-BA_2010-02-17-0.u32614	I would like to say that 47 members have been amended in this law and that this law is obviously not written just because of one discussion here in Parliament concerning maternity leave, where we have all agreed that it would be the most possible and best way to regulate the issue of what everyone else should strive for in this country. We in the RS where this issue is resolved, where contributions are paid, and where when you see a payroll from the RS and the Federation of MPs coming, then you see that it is not done in the same way as the amount of money that is being allocated and in the way that it is done, so we can't solve this issue for just one group of people. We believe that the maternity leave, and in the RS we have passed this through the Law on Public and Child Protection, should be put in the highest possible place. We urge all other cantons and the Federation of BiH to handle it that way. We're not saying that we're not taking away your right to tell the Federation that your priority is disabled, combatants and other categories. Let's not argue about that. Perhaps we too will come to give them a certain degree of priority and to reach those benefits that are great for you once. However, to say that we had no understanding of the law that was proposed here and that we now supported it with a subsequent mind, it simply does not stand. Nothing's changed. People are trying to solve the way they suggested in the law, but this is a much deeper matter than solving just one position. Therefore, he was as proposed outside the BiH system which is here and was therefore unacceptable, not that the issue should not be resolved. Therefore, do not replace the thesis, do not speak difficult questions and stories about discriminatory provisions, because in Strasbourg this is already settled for pensioners, for some others who are discriminated against in this country in the way that you know well how it was settled in the Federation. Dear Ambassador Momčilo Novaković. Here you go.
ParlaMint-BA_2010-02-17-0.u32615	I would just like to tell my colleagues, who obviously have far more ambition than what is in this law today, that simply these ambitions cannot be realized by this law. We know that, above all, they are different, depending on the entity, so different legislation is, different competences, different separation rates 34 etc., etc. And, after all, it's not possible now, as discussed here, that here we are going to make this law the full equality of all employees. Look, this is about bringing all employees into equality based on their work obligations, rights, etc., and I think that's quite enough at this stage. Ambition to something more, I'm afraid it'll disable what's been defined by this law here. Simply, it would be good, if there were really any intention of having a broad discussion about this, the Constitutional Commission at its session could open a public debate on this issue, so we'll see what kind of thinking is from entities, cantons and, after all, see what's even possible in this direction that some colleagues here have talked about. Thank you.
ParlaMint-BA_2010-02-17-0.u32616	Thank you. Dear Ambassador Azra Hadžiahmetović, replica. Here you go.
ParlaMint-BA_2010-02-17-0.u32617	Thank you, Chairman. I did not intend to really encourage any reaction, nor did I mean anyone in particular when I drew attention to the fact that I am glad that this Parliament is beginning to talk about the problem. When I was a timely legislator, with respect for all the arguments that were heard at the time by those who did not support the law, because I know very well the belongings of jurisdiction for certain areas; I wanted to really welcome today the fact that this is being discussed here and in the future public debate, but that it goes together and towards a solution to the problem. So, the reaction, I think, was one extra one. I fully support the replica and content of my colleagues, Novaković, because he drew attention, to remind you, to the equality of labour rights and labour obligations. That's exactly what I'm talking about. Because one of the rights of employment, equality of labour rights, are the rights arising from those items that are mentioned here, and we don't have equality here. I want to mention that BiH entities have their labour laws. They also have laws relating to those areas that regulate and contribute. And we here have the Labour Act in state institutions, and we have no provisions relating to payment, or possibly a mechanism that would provide equality. There can be a solution without touching and not violating this whole system, because it is illogical that you have a unique Labour Act that involves unique labour rights and obligations, and discrimination on the basis of the rights arising from work, because these are subject to entity provisions. All in all, I appreciate that if there is a will, and there seems to be, we will unify solutions, no matter what they are, but to be equal. I guess we'll come up with a solution. Thank you. 35
ParlaMint-BA_2010-02-17-0.u32618	Thank you. Dear Ambassador Šefik Džaferović, replica. Here you go.
ParlaMint-BA_2010-02-17-0.u32619	Mr. Chairman, the law itself in Article 45, seems to me, which refers to a member of the 104th original text of the Labour Act, says that a law on pension, health, disability insurance should be passed, however you will, at least at the level of BiH institutions for people working here. And it is said that by the time these regulations are passed, these regulations will be applied. So he's aware of that and he's also a proponent. I'm just saying, don't wait for it, because it's not a question of whether or not we're going to have it, it's only a question of when we're going to have it. Because this here where we're sitting today, this isn't an inter-entity institution, so let me draw rights from my entity from which I come, you from the entity you come from, this is the original BiH institution. _________(?) Together. Never write it anywhere, and don't use a term that doesn't stand. So this is the original institution, it's not common. Because if it were common, then it would be a different definition of BiH. So that's the problem. And don't turn things the other way. So this is a question: the people sitting there are not the inter-entity co-operation but are the people sitting as we are here in the BiH institution, the original institution. BiH has no common, it has original institutions. And whoever finds me in the BiH Constitution writing a joint institution, I will reward him.
ParlaMint-BA_2010-02-17-0.u32621	Thank you. Dear Ambassador Bajazit Jašarević. Here you go.
ParlaMint-BA_2010-02-17-0.u32622	Dear Mr. Chairman, ladies and gentlemen of the Parliament, on one side of this argument, paragraph 5 reads: 'The means of implementation. The adoption of the Law on Amendments and Supplements to the Labour Act in BiH institutions does not require special funding from BiH institutions and international obligations." Not wanting to take time, I only read Article 12 where the employer is obliged to provide the employee with collective insurance in accordance with the general conditions for the insurance of persons from the consequences of the accident, etc. At least this time I want to talk about the lack of a proposal for this law. This is my chance to talk about inadmissible practice that in laws, which come from different laws of authorised proposings, or there are no chapters of the Implementation Fund, or, if there are, they are written as if they were not needed, or when someone dared to write the bill as if very little needed funds. I'm just warning of unique pavilions in writing these legal proposals, which makes it clear what they need to explain. 36 I would like to ask the Proposer, given that the Council of Ministers is objectively the most competent promoter, that the final text be set up and the member per member analyses how much additional funding is needed for the implementation of each member. Once we have a table for each member how much additional funding is needed from the budget, for those who raise their hands and raise their hands against it, it will be a cleaner situation, and it will be able to be free of any responsibility for its decision whether to support or not. In this law, it is obvious that large amounts of resources are hidden where the only happiness is that they do not have to be applied for this year, because the procedures that will come about that certain rights are not allowed, but it is important that we know that in the first year of application, in the second year, it will most often be projected in three to five years, how much additional funding will be required in the budget to implement a certain law. So, I think the promoter is aware of what I've said and that up to there some change phases will offer to elaborate how much this law costs to the Budget Institutions of BiH. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-BA_2010-02-17-0.u32623	Thank you. Replica, honourable Ambassador Drago Kalabić. Here you go.
ParlaMint-BA_2010-02-17-0.u32624	Mr. Chairman, I'm sorry to interrupt, but I must say, the composition of this Parliament will now appear on the screen. And the columns say from the RS, from the Federation. We think it's together. We think it's common. Where it's supposed to be original, there are no columns. And that's how we interpret it. Those who come to the wolf with their rights and obligations and all that applies to this law where they are bound by entity. I'm just saying, I can't avoid it, we'll all read it, it says who comes from one entity and who comes from another entity. We think we're sitting here together. We're not sitting at any source. It's a joint institution.
ParlaMint-BA_2010-02-17-0.u32625	Dear Ambassador Šefik Džaferović, replica. Here you go.
ParlaMint-BA_2010-02-17-0.u32626	Mr. Kalabić, I was saying that according to the Constitution of BiH, and you seem to me, by the rule of what's nice, that's what happened to her, but it's not like that for you to know.
ParlaMint-BA_2010-02-17-0.u32627	Dear Ambassador Adem Huskić. Here you go.
ParlaMint-BA_2010-02-17-0.u32628	Thank you, Mr. Chairman. I don't think BiH is a share society, I think it's a state and I think everything in BiH is common, all citizens and all peoples. So I don't think just what's here is that 37 is in common and that what's in Banja Luka isn't in common. I really get it that way, and that's how I feel, and I think every other perception is wrong. So if it's common, in this context I accept it; if it's in someone else, then I absolutely don't accept it.
ParlaMint-BA_2010-02-17-0.u32629	What's yours is ours, what's mine is mine, right? Dear Ambassador Drago Kalabić, replica. Here you go.
ParlaMint-BA_2010-02-17-0.u32630	I had no intention of challenging replicas. After all, the others were the first to start, if it were the kid's. Mr. Huskić, I don't know why you're sorely talking about stock companies, these are serious institutions. So that's why I thought, watch out, stock company is a serious thing, this other thing I don't know. So stock companies are something that is a very serious institution and should not be treated that way. And I suggest you launch an initiative to assess the constitutionality of this display upstairs.
ParlaMint-BA_2010-02-17-0.u32631	A common display.
ParlaMint-BA_2010-02-17-0.u32632	Common display, sorry. So it's a common display. Because I can't understand that you've been watching that column all day and you think it's unconstitutional. I think it's constitutional and someone good and smart wrote it up on display. But I allow those who mind launching an initiative to assess the constitutionality of the text on the display. Well, I don't know what else to say. And I ask you to take these insults to the stock company...
ParlaMint-BA_2010-02-17-0.u32633	They're deleted from this record. Dear Ambassador Remzija Kadrić. Here you go.
ParlaMint-BA_2010-02-17-0.u32634	So we should read as it says.
ParlaMint-BA_2010-02-17-0.u32635	microphone not enabled
ParlaMint-BA_2010-02-17-0.u32636	I know. So you should read as it says. Take the BiH Constitution and read it as it says. So, there is no BiH Constitution of joint institutions, there is an BiH institution. 38
ParlaMint-BA_2010-02-17-0.u32637	What version?
ParlaMint-BA_2010-02-17-0.u32638	Everything, all possible versions are.
ParlaMint-BA_2010-02-17-0.u32639	Wait till we translate.
ParlaMint-BA_2010-02-17-0.u32640	There are no joint institutions in the BiH Constitution. And also these stock companies, the question is, how do stockholders come into existence? Who does what, on what basis, and that's all the questions.
ParlaMint-BA_2010-02-17-0.u32641	And it's written down.
ParlaMint-BA_2010-02-17-0.u32642	And it's written down, and it needs to be checked.
ParlaMint-BA_2010-02-17-0.u32643	Dear Ambassador Adem Huskić, replica. Here you go.
ParlaMint-BA_2010-02-17-0.u32644	Since counterpart Kalabić has spent two replicas, I will replicate in a way that he does not need to answer. So, colleague Kalabić, if you wanted to say, and it seems to me that it is, that the stock society is a much more serious institution than BiH, then you get a little..., and now I'm going to stop here and I'm not going to say that word that would fit.
ParlaMint-BA_2010-02-17-0.u32645	Dear Ambassador Selim Bešlagić
ParlaMint-BA_2010-02-17-0.u32646	Dear chairman, respected colleagues and colleagues, I would return to the agenda point, meaning the Law on Labour in BiH institutions and let me just say this is a law at the level of BiH institutions. And in that sense, I suggest, these predecessors, what they said, when it comes to this number of amendments, it would be really good to get the total text and let's say, the text with these amendments so we can compare it, and it's on one side. The second thing, here, when it comes to discrimination, I think it would be good whenever this proposal goes that it goes to the Directorate for European Integrations that they respond to us as they do, because it is by the regulations, that they are responding to whether this law fits, I would say, with EU standards, because we had yesterday and yesterday a debate about these discriminations, so I would not want it to be repeated in the adoption of this law. 39 And the third thing I saw, since we still don’t have enough of these electronic aids; there was a debate about this law but I suggest, I think it will be accepted, to open up a public debate and enter into this part. So this first part is a debate on legal principles. And I think there's been enough discussion today, without these replicas, to accept this law in our first reading, with a note that it would be good to respect it and it means to get an opinion and, I would say, both the Directorates and other things, and to open up a public debate to get the best possible solutions. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-BA_2010-02-17-0.u32647	Please give that conclusion in writing so we can vote on it. Thank you. No more reports. I'm closing the debate. Moving to point 7. Ad. Seven. Proposal for a law on ensuring proportionate ethnic representation in the authorities of BiH's administration and local self-government – Proposer: MP Bakir Izetbegović (first reading) Ambassador Bakir Izetbegović delivered this law to parliamentary procedure 19. 1. The respective Constitutional Legal Commission Opinion on the basis and principles of the Bill's proposal delivered 12. 2. The Commission also supported the constitutional basis and the principles of this law. I also note that the Directorate for European Integration is 4. 2. delivered Opinion on this law. I'm opening a debate on the bill in the first reading. Dear Ambassador and Proposer Bakir Izetbegović. Here you go.
ParlaMint-BA_2010-02-17-0.u32649	So nearly 10 years ago, the BiH Constitutional Court found, in its decision, that Bošnjak, Hrvat and Srbin, together with others and BiH citizens, were constitutional in the whole of BiH, that is, making a partial decision declaring the provisions, i.e. parts of the provisions of the RS Constitution and the Constitution of the Federation of BiH unconstitutional. In its third partial decision in Case No 5/98 of 30 June and 1 July 2000, the Constitutional Court decided that the denial, not only of civil rights but of national rights, in all of BiH, of any constituent nation, constitutes a clear violation of the rules on non-discrimination laid down in Annex IV. which aim to restore a multiethnic society based on the equal rights of Bošnjak, Hrvat and Srbin as constituent peoples and representatives of others. The adoption of this law shall be referred to the provisions of Article 1(4). The RS constitution, which reads: 'Srbin, Bošnjak and Hrvat as constituent peoples, other citizens, equally and without discrimination 40 participate in the exercise of power in the RS'. And the provisions of Article 97(5) of the Treaty on the Functioning of the European Union and of the Treaty on the Functioning of the European Union, and of the Treaty on the Functioning of the European Union, and of the Treaty on the Functioning of the European Union, and of the Treaty on the Functioning of the European Union, and of the Treaty on the Functioning of the European Union, and of the Treaty on the Functioning of the European Union, and of the European Union, and of the Treaty on the Functioning of the European Union, and of the Treaty on the Functioning of the European Union, amandman LXXXV.. which reads: 'Constitutional peoples and groups of others will be proportionally represented in public The Federation constitution, which reads: 'Make sure that the constituent nations, members of the group remain proportionately represented in the canton ministries. Such proportional representation is in line with the 1991 census until the full implementation of Annex VII. The Dayton Agreement." Then amandman LXXXIV.. which reads: 'Constitutional peoples and members of others shall be represented proportionally in cantonal and municipal courts. Such representation will reflect the 1991 census until the full implementation of Annex VII. and in accordance with Articles 9 and 11. The Constitution.' Then the provision of Article 6.1c) which reads: 'Constitutional peoples and members of others will be proportionately represented in the municipal authorities. Such representation will reflect the 1991 census until the full implementation of Annex VII." etc. Then 'constitutive nations', therefore in the Federation, 'and the rest of the group will be represented proportionally in public institutions in the Federation of BiH.' So laws were to be passed that would implement this Constitutional Court decision almost 10 years old. Such laws have not been passed and we have the state we have and what we know, so segregation not only of society but of BiH institutions as well. This law, which we offer to Parliament for the second time, provides for stimulating measures but also measures which, in a certain way, force, predominate, directly for employees, officials, police officers, etc. to achieve the goal. Such measures have always known this society. And in the old Yugoslavia, teachers, teachers, soldiers, cops were assigned according to needs, right? In the BiH Public Administration Reform Strategy adopted in 2006, by the BiH Council of Ministers and the entity government in Chapter 4.3.7, which speaks of the increased transparency of officials, it has been found among other things that existing regulations concerning the possibility of moving state officials from one authority to another at the same or different level of government in BiH do not offer satisfactory solutions. It is necessary to correct the conditions under which transfers may be made. The Action Plan I, adopted in the Public Administration Reform Strategy in Chapter 5.7 relating to the mobility of employees between the level of government of institutions, provides for a fair and open system of movement of employees between the level of government, revision of current laws and regulations to allow the movement of employees between all levels of government. The strategy was developed by the Public Administration Reform Coordinator's Office with the support of the European Commission technical assistance team. The strategy sets out the fundamental principles of public administration reform: openness, accountability, efficiency, effectiveness,..., and sets out the objectives of reform that will make public debate more organised management, more efficient and professional and ensure that it serves citizens, in line with best European practice. So we have obligations that are not fulfilled in relation to the Strategy. The law, which I say for the second time we offer to this House of Parliament, this time we have come to meet, thus softening in two ways this law in order to make it more acceptable. One thing is, we've put 41 of our commitment thresholds down to 50%. So, we have set deadlines that in this year the leading places up to the 50% threshold have to be filled according to the proportional representation and that the rest, also up to the 50% threshold, will be met by the end of next year 2011. These deadlines can still be moved through the amendments, so we can extend them further, we can extend them to four years, to two and four years, because I think this thing should work as spontaneously and naturally as possible. So, people retire, interns are accepted. There are people who would like to come back from the middle where they left during the war, with certain stimulations. And I don't think it's possible within a few years to achieve these 50% thresholds at all. We are also sanctioned in the last proposal, a penalty for non-implementation, for mining... and obstructing the implementation of this law – last time it was intended to be a prison sentence, this time it was only a punishment for loss, so to express a disciplinary measure of termination of employment in the state service. I think we've increased our chances this way, so we've made it possible for the Members of the RS to accept this law. And here, I appeal to adopt it in the first reading, to see if we should make it more realistic in the amendments. I suggest that you support this law, among other things, because of the constant calling of the capital of Sarajevo as a Muslim city. This is a chance for us to correct that thing, too, or in case it is refused to make such objections against the capital of Sarajevo. Thank you.
ParlaMint-BA_2010-02-17-0.u32650	Thank you. The next is the esteemed representative, Margin Raguž.
ParlaMint-BA_2010-02-17-0.u32651	I thank you, Mr. President. So HDZ 1990 will support the adoption of this law in the first reading. Three are the main reasons why. The first is the one cited in this explanation that the main reason for the adoption of this law is to ensure the constitutional principle of equality between the constituent peoples in the whole of BiH, as well as the principle of non-discrimination. The second thing, apart from this basic principle, we know that since the Constitutional Court's decision on constitutionality, a series of amendments to the Constitution and legal solutions that oblige these principles to be implemented have been adopted. And the third thing, here is that when this vacuum is not going to reform in BiH, when it comes to congestion in many processes, we use it to show that we can conduct internal dialogue and fix things ourselves inside, because we are very often called on not to impose or obstruct any more, so here are the opportunities for a little bit of that readiness for internal dialogue and for us to come to a solution to practice ourselves. Here, this is an excellent test. As far as the solutions are concerned, I would not repeat what Mr. Izetbegović said in this explanation, I would only say that some things will need to be fixed; this in the best sense of suggestion means. The first thing is that those who are bound by this law there, the list of liability holders, should be classified by the county governments, or canton, given their role in the whole process and constitutional and other competences. And it's not enough to say just the entity governments, it's 42 to stay, but the county governments, relative to the canton, and the Brcko District government must be among those liability holders. As for the deadlines that have been given and this maneuvering that the promoter has now given with a 50 per cent down the threshold, both for the executives so for the employees, I can welcome it as a first step in terms of willingness to seek a compromise and that is indeed one very, I would say, a correct move, but we cannot apply non-discrimination and the principles of constitutionality to any half solution at the end. We can start at the beginning, but ultimately these principles must remain legally enabled, so that these dynamics, after 31. 12. 2010 for management staff and 31. 12. In 2011 for employees, it is necessary to continue and extend, and this can be specified through amendment interventions. And the third thing, and I end with that, is the supervision of the implementation of this important law, which was given to the Ministry of Justice by the Proposer and should remain, should be in this Chapter IV. Under point 3. introduce that every six months, the Parliamentary Assembly is considering a report on the implementation of this law, and that the Council of Ministers, i.e. the Ministry of Justice, is preparing a report on what dynamics and how this law is implemented. I think this is an important law and that we should be at the height of the task and support the adoption of this law and, of course, improve it in the debate. Thank you.
ParlaMint-BA_2010-02-17-0.u32652	Thank you. Next is Honorable Representative Rifat Dolić.
ParlaMint-BA_2010-02-17-0.u32653	Gentlemen Chairman, colleagues and colleagues, distinguished guests, I believe in the good intentions and motives of the promoters when proposing and putting into the procedure of such a law. However, I think there is yet another law before us which, even before its eventual adoption, is condemned to non-execution and ignoring. I think there is no need for this law in this environment today in BiH. First, because the provisions on the proportionate representation of the constituent peoples and members of others have already been contained in the Constitution of BiH, the constitutions of entities, cantons and Brcko District. The fact is that constitutional provisions on proportionate or fair representation are becoming increasingly ignored today and the question arises: If the provisions of the constitution as the highest laws in the state are not respected in this country, then why bring new laws that regulate the same area? The second reason I think this law is too high today is because of my opinion that we are the only country in the world that tries to solve one of these issues in this way. For other countries, international conventions on human rights, prohibitions of discrimination and other countries signed and ratified are sufficient. I understand the good intentions and motives of the proponents to propose such a law, but this deep and broad national count in laws, I think it's more harmful than it benefits those who are discriminated against in employment on the basis of national and religious belongings. I believe that we will experience a time when very few people in this country will be appointed and employed by nationality and when citizens 43 will be employed depending on the needs, abilities and other parameters of the labour market. So, I think that in terms of proportionate ethnic representation in the authorities of the local administration and self-government in BiH, enough is enough to regulate international conventions that BiH has ratified and incorporated into its constitutions. What is needed in this time is for constitutional provisions on human rights, prohibitions of discrimination, equality and others only to be respected by those who decide on this country, and often by those who propose such laws. I'm not going to talk about the essence of a law whose practical application is quite difficult and quite questionable. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-BA_2010-02-17-0.u32654	Thank you. Next is Honorable Representative Mirko Okolić.
ParlaMint-BA_2010-02-17-0.u32655	Thank you, Mr. Chairman. The law would not be so bad if it were proposed at a time when a census of BiH's population and material goods would be carried out. I am afraid that this law, based on the 1991 census, is a law that, if adopted, could bring a lot of problems, in terms of the consequences that could happen after the adoption of a census law and material goods and its application. What happens if the new list doesn't show the same condition as the 1991 census? It's probably the same thing that would happen now with this law. We would then have some problems in terms of adapting to the new list as we would now have problems adapting to this 1991 census. I agree that here it is necessary to see how many people and others work in these authorities of the administration and local self-government at BiH level. If this proportional representation is equal to proportional representation on the 1991 census, it is something that is okay, or okay. This would only mean that certain workers or people changed their place of residence in BiH, not only in this period that was behind us in the form of an unfortunate war but also in a period of peace and when it has full right. Why now impose on someone his employment and change of residence, or burden his own budget, is again a consequence for the state, that he must travel 20, 30 or 50 km and also burden the budget to make up for the compensations that follow him under the law must be provided. It would be fine if it could be arranged by this law on the basis of volunteering and that anyone who wants to move on their own request or willingly and agreed to do so. However, I am afraid that such a law that requires a change of residence, i.e. a transfer of meanings and a change of residence... the authorities of the administration will also belong to the appropriate rights, I have already said, and that violent transfer may be under this law, then there is certainly an issue that will stir up a lot of things in BiH when it comes to this matter. Furthermore, it seems to me that in Article 4, these deadlines, and when this law is adopted today in the first reading, could not be respected without certain problems, and let's say, at the very least, certain problems in this area, because for the executive workers, in paragraph 2, it should be up to 31. 12th of this year, which I'm sure is a deadline that cannot be respected. And if we brought it in within a month, and until he was published in the Official Messenger, it seems 44 to me that it's really a deadline that isn't... So, in my opinion, it is more important that we make a law on the census and material goods in BiH and on this basis, and based on the Constitution, then a national proportion of all employees in local administrations and self-governments in BiH and other administrations will be made. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-BA_2010-02-17-0.u32656	Replica, the esteemed representative Martin Raguž.
ParlaMint-BA_2010-02-17-0.u32657	It is not disputed that Mr Okolić has presented a number of arguments that may concern some organisational, technical assumptions and restrictions on the implementation of this law and we are aware that the implementation of such a law can have a number of additional and burdens, and open issues. However, he linked the issue of a new census and establishing a real state with the constitution of the government, and I want it here, on behalf of the party which I belong to as a representative, indeed, to reject any connection between the results of the new census; so we must try to get a new census, with a new constitutional constitution in BiH, I don't think it will pass and should not pass in this country. The question is how can anyone determine, of course, go through everything, but the fact is that the very result of the new census should be in the function of all other elements, not in legalising the new ethnic and constitutional constitution of BiH. And that's one question that's waiting for us and at this point this question, about the application of this law and this list, we don't need to connect. Thank you.
ParlaMint-BA_2010-02-17-0.u32658	Thank you. The next one is MP Milica Marković.
ParlaMint-BA_2010-02-17-0.u32659	Thank you, Mr. Chairman. The law that is currently on the agenda, for this law I could say is very short on its content, but it can be concluded that there are very, very serious intentions through this law and, I will say very openly, with serious consequences that could be through the adoption and application of this law. In principle, the legislator calls for one, let me say,... and the democratic principle, which is the elimination of discrimination in the process of allowing citizens to get employment and employment relations and is called upon to the Constitution of BiH, so I am more surprised that the Constitutional Commission, which said that there is a constitutional basis for the adoption of this law, in which it sits with mah lawyers, could or could not, I think, is more like this -- did not want to read between the lines that the adoption of this law actually introduces and creates, that is, an opportunity for even more discrimination than we have had so far. If someone reads this law that doesn't know the opportunities in BiH, who, say, came here yesterday and took this law to read, could say - so this promoter must have done everything in his jurisdiction and in the area he's responsible for, so he proposes the law so that others, who didn't do it, would make those same things happen and end. 45 I can't take away one fact, which we all know and we know from not full months ago, that we now have a situation to propose this law, Mr. Izetbegović, and I believe his club that supports it, propose this law and, therefore, base this law on a purely national and ethnic criterion in allowing people to return to work where they used to be in the '90s, '91. and '92. A year. And we all saw a month ago here when we had at the debate of the Bill on the Census of BiH that Mr Izetbegović and his club had disputed and destroyed the law for reasons they did not respond because the proposed law proposed a clause that BiH citizens could plead according to the national, religious and language criteria. And they thought it was discriminatory and... that's why the law needs to be broken. And just because you don't believe that people who broke a law a month ago for these reasons now propose a new law for the same reasons and still invite us to support it and to adopt that law. Not to talk about what Mr. Izetbegović said earlier that he said, well, Sarajevo is considered a Muslim city and that the other two people that are constitutional in BiH do not have the opportunity, of course I say, did not say that they do not have the opportunity to return to their previous jobs and jobs. It's a strange finding to say, here, now, to remove this anatema from Sarajevo as the BiH capital should be passed, and before that we know that there was a constitutional provision saying that all three peoples in BiH territory were constitutional and equal, that we had aneks vii.. The Dayton Peace Agreement that says the same thing, and it wasn't enough for that thing to be applied, done, here in Sarajevo if it was to be done, and it was not done, but here we are supposed to need this law to sort of justify this fact and this situation that is related to the city of Sarajevo. So these are my principled objections to this law. Now I'm going to say a few things relating to individual members that I think, exactly, and because of that and that are so difficult and serious facts that are listed here that this is simply why the SNSD Club will not be able to support this law. Therefore, Article 2 of this Law proposes that the criteria for this balance be set out in the '91 list. It is obvious that representatives of Bosniak parties and Bošnjak in this parliament do everything they do, and the laws they propose, do it as if BiH will never have a census and whatever we do: give us the '91 census. A year. We heard two days ago a high representative said that we had every opportunity to hear in public when he said that if BiH did not make a census in 2011 that it would be with Botswana the only country in the world that does not have a census. That's what we could all hear. Yesterday we heard one of the parliamentarians from the European Parliament Delegation, who visited our parliament yesterday and concluded,... who is the head of the delegation, when journalists asked him if the EU had anything to do with making the list of BiH citizens known on a national, religious and linguistic basis, he said: no, we have nothing against it. So it's simply incomprehensible that now and perhaps in the next 20 and 50 years, people simply can't break off that list from '91. A year. I already said we have a Constitution, we have an aneks vii.. which should have been applied and implemented in the RS, as it claims, was also to be implemented in Sarajevo and in the entire territory of the Federation. Not to say here that some other things are discriminatory like Article 5 where these processes are required to be conducted without competition. It's simply incomprehensible for someone to be admitted today, according to existing laws and state and entity, that someone is being admitted or returned to work without competition. Is it possible that someone is wishing for that situation in '92? The years when people with no arguments, with nothing, were out of jobs. Let's get out of work, go ahead and quit your job just because you're a Srbin, Bošnjak or Hrvat! Does this mean no 46 disciplinary proceedings, no institutes, that the law has established that someone is coming to work and that they can leave the job? So it's now become irrelevant and irrelevant, let's just do it the way we imagined it. Then, Article 7 says in point (2): 'If there is no need to complete the vacancy, the proportional representation will be ensured by forced transfer.' Mr. Izetbegović said earlier, he said, there have been forced transfers in our former state to teachers, police officers. Yes, Mr. Izetbegović, but it was necessary because of the need for a country she had to have a teacher and a policeman in a particular village, not because someone was a Srbin, Bošnjak or Hrvat. You shouldn't have mentioned it in the previous state that you know, by the way, you're very often criticizing and saying it wasn't a good system and it wasn't a good policy. Now all of a sudden, you're calling yourself to that thing, like it was good, and you've brought it all along, you've replaced thesis, you've brought it all into comparison with things that are incomparable. I want to say that applying a member like this would lead: not only would it create certain imposing on people who would be in a situation to be... but it was simply a kind of repression where you would do your job and where you would have a job. Then, Article 8 where it says "the candidates from an under-represented constitutional people will take precedence when hiring a trainee". So, please, can it be, is it also in one European state that in the 21st century when people are masters, doctors are mahogany, when they rule the various technologies that are necessary in the modern administration, when they speak foreign languages, and now you have such two interns and when you watch them you say, well, now they will have the advantage of Bošnjak in Bijeljina, let's say because Bošnjak are less in Bijeljina than some Srbin or Hrvat who was a model student, who became an excellent lawyer, who speaks English, who has everything else and thus government. Of course, the promoter will say - well, here it is only when they have equal references as experts, as trainees, but it doesn't say here. Here it says it only takes precedence on a national basis, etc. And, criminal provisions which, I think, best to say is that it is without comment at all, that the head of the authority of the administration who does not comply with this provision gets the notice of termination, i.e. the termination of a working relationship. Where in the world it has such things, means without a disciplinary procedure, without an institute that has established the law, how someone is responsible for the violation of labour discipline and work obligations he has. So, you just didn't implement the ethnic rule of law we passed and good-bye, fired from work. I mean, that, I'm really surprised how the Constitutional Commission lawyers could have missed a law like this and said he was good and should be supported. I can accept that some people, perhaps, even the promoter himself, are now wishing to return some of the criteria, as he said from the former country of SFRY, when, say, the Communist Party found it important to celebrate 29. November, it's a more important holiday than people celebrating Christmas or Bajram or something. And they ran it through Parliament and it was binding, and no one should have said anything about it. But what kind of Europe are we talking about, Euro-Atlantic integration and democratisation of the state? So, where is this story in the context of this story? So here I was trying as briefly as I could to make my observations and I think this is totally unacceptable and the SNSD can't support this law. 47
ParlaMint-BA_2010-02-17-0.u32660	Thank you. Replica, the esteemed representative Bakir Izetbegović.
ParlaMint-BA_2010-02-17-0.u32661	So, a colleague of the Milica could have really been a lawyer. If you fail with a political career, you can open the bar freely, because you manage to represent what is... and what is bad as good, and what is positive and what is progressive as bad, you succeed that thing, 10 minutes you've been doing that thing to us here. So you're saying that this law will bring serious consequences. So it needs to correct the severe consequences, to correct the severe consequences of violence, aggression, and all the ugly things that have happened in this country. Half the population evicted from the doorstep, some soldier came to the door. And we're trying to fix some of that, based on this Constitutional Court decision, not on the ethnic principle; this Constitutional Court decision then mentions the peoples, is it? You're saying that the promoter is responsible for a situation like in one of our own... so we have no right to force others. What am I responsible for? I'm responsible for working in this Parliamentary Assembly, and no, you're probably thinking about the Federation, what do you mean, I don't know. I am responsible for helping implement the Constitutional Court's decision and amending the Constitution, for example in the RS, in the Federation that has not been implemented, which has not been implemented for 10 years. So then you're imputing me that once we have one attitude and criteria when it comes to this population census law, and the second time when this law is here. It is not true, we have exactly the same principles, we want to oppose the ethnic segregation of society and stamping on ethnic cleansing, violent change in the state and distribution of peoples in BiH. We want to stand up to it, both in one case and another. So... a way to drive out half the population, and then on passive measures, after the war, to counter the return, because in this home here we used to single out a million marks, for a million refugees to return to their home, annually. So you can buy everyone a cup for that money! And then, after all, still make a list, you know, not implement a 10-year-old decision of the Constitutional Court, it's ugly. ... It's a '91 census.? Well, this Constitutional Court decision calls for him. We just want to get back to the state of pre-violence and before the war. And in terms of sanctions, finally, people who would oppose the implementation of this Constitutional Court decision, which was then developed through this law, would be continuations of ethnic cleansing and would oppose, I say, the decision of the Supreme Legal Authority in this country and deserve at least such a sanction to lose their service in that country that they boycott. Thank you.
ParlaMint-BA_2010-02-17-0.u32662	Thank you. Let's do replicas. Dear Ambassador Azra Alajbegović. Here you go. 48
ParlaMint-BA_2010-02-17-0.u32663	Well, I'd rather say it's a comment. I would like to thank the Constitutional Commission which found the constitutional basis for the parliamentary procedure of this law because it allowed us to be witnesses and to listen to another truly brilliant lecture by MP Milica Marković, who, by her own content, everyone in this house and whoever heard, had said enough in himself. Thank you.
ParlaMint-BA_2010-02-17-0.u32664	Dear Ambassador Husein Nanić, replica. Here you go.
ParlaMint-BA_2010-02-17-0.u32665	I thank you, Chairman. The replica refers to Mrs Marković's exposure and it is three things that I have led myself here to believe that they need to be reacted to. I really consider this law as an attempt to find a solution to everything that the relevant institutions in BiH and the international community so far have indicated that solutions should be found. Since this decision of the Constitutional Court, by the Constitution of the Federation of BiH, the Constitution of the RS and this law is a logical sequence of these decisions and these contents in these documents. He's trying to find a solution in the BiH state that went through what he's been through and we're all aware of it, and I don't think we have the right to ignore it, but we need to take a step to try and find a solution. Another thing that is said here - why is it not respected in some municipalities, in some cities, etc. - I want to believe that we are all committed here in the whole territory of BiH to be implemented in all the cities in BiH, including Sarajevo, and in Banja Luka, and in Drvar, and in Bihac and in all cities. So, it refers to the entire territory of BiH, and it is an obligation for all BiH authorities to fix it. And the third thing I would do here and I need to replicate is call on that attitude... that proportional representation is done in relation to the '91 census. A year. It's normal to take as a starting point some sort of normal state, a '91 list. It's after '91. The years have produced an abnormal situation in BiH, the expulsion of a huge number of inhabitants, etc., and the first thing you go back to when you make a diagnosis, make an assessment, take certain moves is a return to some basic normal state that is quality-verified, etc. So it's the only possible calling, or starting point can be the '91 census. A year. I'd like to hear what other relevant point this could be like as an initial reflection on this move. Another situation is if in general, as the SNSD Club said, and is the attitude that it does not want to solve these problems at all, it is another problem that this political option should clearly say in BiH that it does not want to respect the entity constitutions, that it does not want to respect this Constitutional Court decision and that it does not want to provide a nice and normal flow and development and assumptions that BiH could live as a normal state. 49
ParlaMint-BA_2010-02-17-0.u32666	Replica, honourable MP Milica Marković. Here you go.
ParlaMint-BA_2010-02-17-0.u32667	Well, first of all, it's a false assumption that Mr. Nanić said that the SNSD, the SNSD Club, did not want to discuss these issues and to resolve them. Neither did I, nor did anyone report from the SNSD so far. It's completely incorrect and the truth that you might be constructing somehow based on what you've heard in your head, but one thing is what you're constructing in your head, and one thing is what you say here and what turns out to be. If you really want to, as a club and as Bošnjak who are proposing this law, if you want to do what you are saying and what you represent under all of this that you have set out in this law to do so, why not do so in the diplomatic and consular representations of BiH. My colleague Slavuj Jovičić, who may have been two years old as he asked for information to be delivered to him by a national structure in those BiH offices, received maybe one half of the data, half of it was, half it didn't even get. And that half of what he got was incomplete because he's in those representations -- we know what the composition is. And we also know that at the BiH Embassy in Strasbourg, where our delegation often leaves, until a year ago, while the ambassador to the embassy was Srbin Foreign Minister and members of the Presidency: so Mr Komšić and Silajdžić made sure that if he is a Srbin ambassador, the deputy, or adviser to the embassy must be Bošnjak and the secretary must be Hrvat. Today we have a situation: for a year the ambassador is a Hrvat, as it belongs to him because it is a rotating place, so the ambassador is a Hrvat, the adviser is a Bošnjak, the secretary is a Hrvat, the driver is a Hrvat and the technical secretary is a Bošnjakinja. And what's here now -- that's just one example -- you have now, if I were to tell you all the examples, that would be the sea to bring out here -- and what you're now talking about, the balance you're talking about, that you want to do something about. There, the representations that represent us in the world. _________(?) [[no microphone turned on]] Well, why don't you just give it a rest? When we asked for and when we launched the motion to recall Minister Sven Alkalaj, among other things, and for these reasons, you did not let that happen. So you didn't let us replace him and we know why we started it. And don't think people sit here so naive that they can't read between the lines what's there and what's wanted. And we told you that once upon a time and a long time ago that everything that is in this context, which is done to harm one, two, or any other people in BiH, will never get the green light of the SNSD.
ParlaMint-BA_2010-02-17-0.u32669	Thank you. Replica, distinguished representative Slavko Jovičić. 50
ParlaMint-BA_2010-02-17-0.u32670	The Honorable Chairman, then the replica of this part of the exposure about what someone won't, as said here that the SNSD Club won't, will not, they won't. At the second session, when we came here to Parliament, I asked – I am sorry that my colleague Džaferović left, and I would hear the right definition to reconcile the views – in the joint original institutions of BiH I asked for everything to be delivered to me: national structure, this, that, where someone is employed. So this law would not solve any problems in BiH's joint original institutions but it is about something else. Gentlemen, we are aware of the situation today, and this law should not be tied to the census. But there, it's got to do something. Today in the joint institutions come, according to my knowledge, three Srbin buses, so to speak, because it seems true, it seems to me, two from Lukavica and one from Pal or vice versa, and they did not return to Sarajevo and were pre-war residents of Sarajevo. And they won't come back if this law was passed, they won't come back because they've sold apartments here for 15 grand, 20,000 marks and now, and if it were such a possibility, the apartment is 300,000 marks and they'd be a national minority, they'd be this or that, but they come here and I'm looking at them in these salamis and these halls and I see some before me, some of them go, some of them stay, I don't care what they do, they have their own bosses there, and they won't be returned to this law. What's going on? What would happen? I must, I always call for openness, not to agree with my opinion but to openness, it is obvious that Bošnjak express, it is fair, it is the right, to return and return to their pre-war, Srbin will not. Find me a city where ten Srbin have returned in the last year. Find me information that has changed in the Federal Parliament coat of arms, constitution and flag, and they were obliged to respect this Constitutional Court decision on the constitutionality of the people. And no one's chasing them. The National Assembly of the RS lost days to change the Constitution, the coat of arms, and we had to because there was a high representative hanging there. I'm sorry, I wasn't hanging, under the supposed signs, so someone wouldn't think we hung him, never, ever welcome. So, non-stop delegations -- you have to change this, what -- I've never seen anyone go to a federal assembly or government there and say -- people, come on, this is painful, do something. They also have some House of Peoples who couldn't afford a past term or collect. No, people, there's no Srbin out there and you can't make it up. So here's what I'm thinking, we're going to pass 100 laws, but we're not going to help this poor people, because we're just making some laws to complicate the situation; let's try to make peace and not use it, here's what I'm going to resent for using this in a pre-election campaign to win, and I'm not even going to run anywhere anymore, but I'd like to beat myself, and here I'm winning to make a deal. Mr. Izetbegović, when you proposed this law, you invited a few more and let's see where something can be found. And you go out with some numbers here and then you mention in the discussion ethnic cleansing, and you don't say who's where it's cleaned up. So I was talking about ethnic cleansing, for example. Ilidge where there was no war. In 20 years as it was done, since '71. Year, '91 list. year, changed completely demographic structure: 44% of Srbin on Iliza in '71, '91. 32%, etc. and many cities. Of course, I'll also list cities where the Bošnjak were at a higher percentage, and later on in smaller ones. Let's sit nice and get, 51
ParlaMint-BA_2010-02-17-0.u32671	Time!
ParlaMint-BA_2010-02-17-0.u32672	I'm done. We'll sit down before we can figure this out. This is a key sentence, I suggested to you, I suggested to you, let's go to Potocara and put, Srbin, Bošnjak, Hrvat, crown.
ParlaMint-BA_2010-02-17-0.u32673	Time!
ParlaMint-BA_2010-02-17-0.u32674	Let's go together, Mr. Izetbegović, go to Silas, Vi, me and the Hrvat, and let's go where the Hrvat are, together for the people to see us. And no one comes out with a bill, they won't pass what I'm going to do. I'm sorry.
ParlaMint-BA_2010-02-17-0.u32675	Dear MPs, we are currently at the limit of the quorum, 21 of us are in the O.R. Since there are a lot of people who have been reported for replicas and debates, and it would be good to get back to the agenda point, I'm giving you 10 minutes off. [[PAUZA]] Comrades and fellow MPs, we have a report for replication. I ask you to return to the agenda, that we do not make this, in my opinion, the light agenda today, unnecessarily difficult to complete in time. If we had elaborated this issue several times in this House or if you'd just read those statements or discussions that we did last time, we would have seen ourselves repeating ourselves, please. Mirko Okolić, replica. Here you go.
ParlaMint-BA_2010-02-17-0.u32677	I'll be very brief and I won't repeat myself, because I didn't normally do it. Here, I will reply to the replica of Mr. Martin Raguž and the same question. And I'll start with that question. The question to all of us and the Proposer: How long will this law last, if we bring it in? Does this mean that by passing this law someone, and after a new census in BiH, say, in 2011, '12, '13. Or '15. There's no right to change the place of residence and the place of work? Under this law, there is no such thing. This legislator, or legislator, is, if he wants something like this and if this law is to be passed, he would also have to propose the time of application of this law. If we respect all this national proportion at one given moment, it must become out of force, it is absurd, it must in itself be abolished, because we cannot give 52 forever to people guidance and instructions about employment, I don't know, places of residence based on the 1991 census. I think it's also the lack of this law, because from this you can't see until it's applied, and the application of its infinite really... wouldn't make sense. Thank you.
ParlaMint-BA_2010-02-17-0.u32678	Thank you. Dear Ambassador Martin Raguž, replica. Here you go.
ParlaMint-BA_2010-02-17-0.u32679	Well, here I am, reporting for the replica of the distinguished colleague and representative Slavko Jovičić, respecting his openness. He asked one question to give him an example of where one of the Srbin wants to return recently. Last week, a senior RS government delegation led by former refugee minister in the government, now adviser to the prime minister, where they said in a public stay in Mostar that around 1,200 Serbian families wanted to return to Bosnia. They have experienced an extraordinary reception and promotion of this project and has been welcomed by all the citizens of Mostar, here's to say. And if I didn't say in that context to rehabilitate the restoration of the Assembly Church, one of the most significant religious institutions down there, where the whole summit is, I would say, not only the RS but at the national level of Žitomislić, further. And we all need to say hello. So, don't make an example, I've only found one example that has an example. And I don't want to paralyze, I don't want to replicate. Also, there are people who don't want to come back, and I accept that, what he was setting an example, and I accept that there are a lot of people who don't want to come back. And here I will end up with the answer, not to go further into replicas; I will accept the presidency's suggestion, let it be determined by when this law will apply, that I do not determine it now. I mean, it can't go on forever, but let's not ignore the possibility of repairing the overall situation this law carries on its own. Here, thank you.
ParlaMint-BA_2010-02-17-0.u32680	Thank you. Dear Ambassador Husein Nanić, replica. Here you go.
ParlaMint-BA_2010-02-17-0.u32681	I thank you, Chairman. The replica refers to Mr. Jovičić's presentation. And behold, the second time in 15 days the same false claim is made when he says, "Find me a city in which ten Srbin have returned?" I'm talking about three cities, and don't disrespect the level of return and the people who want to return to their hearths. I quote you three cities from my election unit: bosanski Petrovac, Sanski Most, Glamoch. Check how many Srbin have returned to these cities. Just three. 53
ParlaMint-BA_2010-02-17-0.u32682	Thank you. Dear Ambassador Denis Bećirović, replica. Here you go.
ParlaMint-BA_2010-02-17-0.u32683	Dear Chairman, I hope that the MPs of the SDP, here is the first time that one of us appears within this item of the agenda, will not be able to disrupt this moving constructive atmosphere created within this point of the agenda. We in the SDP want to say and repeat that, when it comes to the position of the SDP, it is our fundamental programme commitment – the fight for equality of all peoples and citizens. I don't know why we're making so much trouble today at the session. In addition, it is also written in the BiH Constitution, decided by the BiH Constitutional Court, which also confirmed it, and on the equality and constitutionality of the people speak and stop not only BiH but also the constitution of the entity. However, what is the situation in practice, it is a different story. I have answered with one question, unfortunately, there is no proposing at the moment but I would like it to be there and to answer one question for me, which is: What is the aim of the motioner of this debate? (a) propose this law and that it fall or propose this law and that it pass. If this is another way to propose this law with the intention of passing this today, I ask the Proposer: Did he consult, when making this law, in any way his coalition partners? The opposition and all opposition parties in this parliament as well as the opposition in all other European countries have the right to propose, and that the majority refuse. After all, our only tool is to propose, and whether something will pass, right now we don't have enough hands here in Parliament to decide. However, when it comes to parties that make up the majority, it is quite logical to ask that when one of the parties from most of the parties proposes something to try to bring it into line with their coalition partners with whom they make up the majority. I would therefore like to hear the answer to this question, especially since there are certain issues on which a consensus was reached in January 2007. I find it a little strange that energy within the parliamentary majority is not directed at the realization of at least what was agreed and signed in January 2007. Instead, they open up, here are five or six months before the elections, and some new topics, and it is already clear at the beginning of this debate, when we heard representatives, first of all, clubs that make up the parlamenary majority – that this law is falling. So I'm really asking a question, it seems to me that we are going to be facing this situation more and more in the next six or seven months: is it when the laws of most parties are proposed whether there is minimum coordination and agreement on these things, or is it just suggested that some people see one suggest it while others see others at the same time refusing to do so? If that's the point of a law like this, then we're wasting our time here.
ParlaMint-BA_2010-02-17-0.u32684	Replica, Honorary Chairman, Dr. Milorad Živković. 54
ParlaMint-BA_2010-02-17-0.u32685	Thank you. I will try to arrange with the service that the honourable MP does not move from that place, for he has overcome his discussion of those who sit in that place, with a dose of cynicism addressing here. At the same time, two are incorrect allegations. One is that the congregation majority can break this law. You know very well how to break this law, and with the entity majority, which doesn't just mean the congregation majority. And the other thing, if we compare all the documents mentioned, starting with the Constitution, the preamble, these decisions of the Constitutional Court, is not listed anywhere whose authority it is to carry out, as well as any other decisions. The jurisdiction can only be found in Article III. Under 3.a., the Constitution where it says: "All government functions and powers which are not in this Constitution are explicitly given to BiH institutions belong to entities." And that's the only thing that's relevant. It is known who should implement the decisions of the Constitutional Court. It can't be done the way this law was proposed and in which some here suggest... First Deputy Chairman, Mr. Niko Lozančić, replica.
ParlaMint-BA_2010-02-17-0.u32686	Thank you, Mr. President. Since we do not have the opportunity at this table to use the means by the distinguished representative Džaferović when it comes to the line and for the line, so I have now taken advantage of it orally, since obviously I cannot come to the order for discussion. But I'll try to cut it short. I don't mean to rephrase it to anyone, because I think it's too much of a replication. What was the intention of the legislator of this law, it is known by the legislator, but in any case I think this is a good test and that test has been carried out. Is there in BiH within any majority, it was called parliamentary, it was called ethnic, it was called multiethnic, civil, whatever you want to call, is there a willingness to try to fix some things at least 15 years after the end of the war? And here, the proposer, in my opinion, has deviated from the fundamental principles. The real ones exist, and they can't be reduced. Either there are, or there aren't, respecting that he may have had a good intention of at least starting something that way, considering that he suggested that some rights be realised at least 50%. So here's what I appreciate is that it was a correct intention, but obviously that's not enough. We, then, 15 years after the end of the war, are not ready and, in my opinion, the conclusion of all these discussions, and the outcome of the vote on this law is already clear to me. So that we can wait for more debate, this law won't pass, because there aren't enough of those who are willing to honestly think about this. And I'm going to repeat something, but I'm going to repeat as long as that's the case, it's not the only question, the only place we're acting like this. We had another topic today that was seemingly different from this one, so we realized that we had one number of current soldiers, we had some former soldiers; some of the former ones we solved in one way, we're going to do this the other way. We have some savings today that are saving, we have ex-savings that we call old, because they got old waiting for us to solve their rights, so it's no problem. Although there are many, many of these categories have much more than there are members of any of the parties in this Parliament or 55 even more than they are members of the ethnos on any basis that live in BiH today, but that's not why we worry, because we've obviously gotten used to it and we've gotten used to them, because we've been trained in this, and we've been able to explain to them how it is better for them than if Bog didn't let them change anything. There are many former residents of some municipalities and there are many new inhabitants of some areas, many former and new ones, etc. by different criteria of employed, unemployed, so that by the day after tomorrow, I could list the categories of citizens of this country who are in different positions because someone, and this one is either sitting today or once sitting in similar bodies of this country, so in one way or another, he declared them former, present, old, new, etc., etc. The very intention to improve the situation at least a little bit, we will support, although we believe it will not necessarily affect this law to obtain the necessary majority, although we think in the amendment phase if, by any chance, this law comes to an amendment phase that will affect some solutions that we think I cannot stay, so it has a good intention to start this process here. I think things should be put to the end in principle, so if they go, they go. If he's not going, he's not going. Then let's say, a clear message to instruct people not to go. Because we have government bodies here from the municipality to the highest levels, but I ask the question: What about public institutions, what about schools, kindergartens, health homes, hospitals, power businesses, post office, telecoms etc., etc., which is all owned by this state, which is all public, but it's as public as you are in a certain space, so it's as much available to you. So if there's you, God Bog, it's not yours, then it's the other public who's a little more numerous than you. Unfortunately, for who knows which time, we'll probably just figure out, some disillusioned, some disillusioned, that it's still much stronger that rule is unwritten and many times told what's being pitied, there's no repairs. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-BA_2010-02-17-0.u32687	Thank you. Dear Ambassador Šefik Džaferović, replica. Here you go.
ParlaMint-BA_2010-02-17-0.u32688	No microphone turned on
ParlaMint-BA_2010-02-17-0.u32689	No, no, there's a replica first, so I'll give you the opportunity to discuss it.
ParlaMint-BA_2010-02-17-0.u32690	The Honorable Chairman, colleagues and colleagues, ladies and gentlemen, I will do a very brief discussion in the time of the replica, because I don't need more time to say what I meant. The law offered by the SDA could be freely called a law against obstruction in the implementation of the BiH Constitution, this decision by the Constitutional Court, entity constitutions and numerous laws applying the '91 census. years of employment in part of the administration; there's Mr. Lozančić right, because we didn't cover everything because we know that would cause even more severe reactions, 56 we just wanted to start with this. So there's nothing in this law that hasn't been taken as an obligation before, through this act or that act. We on the scene have an obstruction of commitments and waiting for some time, among other things, and waiting for a new census to then take a new census as a basis for calculating what we are talking about in this law. And that's exactly why we're passing this law because we don't want to wait for a new list and we don't want to join those who want to legalize this existing state that came about as a result of violence, so this isn't the natural state that we have. And in that context we need to understand this law, and this is the answer to all those who say that the '91 list. years, which wonder how long the '91 list will be valid. A year. As far as we from the SDA are concerned, a long, long time, until these consequences result from the violence in BiH are removed. That's one thing. The second thing concerns the way the law again, for the second time, came into parliamentary procedure. Today, we could hear some suggestions that should be well analyzed. Perhaps science may also be involved in them sometimes – who has the right and in what way and how to propose a proposal in parliamentary procedure. But here, in response, I will say that, among other things, we have managed one of the rare and good sides of the Sarajevo Agreement from, I think, 2002, because this is one of the rare and good sides of the Sarajevo Agreement that promotes the principle of proportionate ethnic representation in all BiH institutions and entities. And finally, I want to say that the only institution that takes care of this, and as far as I know, is the High Judicial and Prosecutorial Council and should encourage them to continue working on establishing the ethnic structure of the judiciary according to the '91 census. A year. That's it, thank you.
ParlaMint-BA_2010-02-17-0.u32691	Thank you. Dear Ambassador Denis Bećirović, replica. Here you go.
ParlaMint-BA_2010-02-17-0.u32692	I will not repeat what the SDP of BiH thinks and what it suggests when it comes to ensuring the full equality of all peoples across the BiH territory. But, Mr. Chairman, I think it's natural for people in the position to have different views than the people in the opposition. You said a few thesis that I disagree with and I'll explain it in the shortest, through three thesis. In my discussion, under number 1, I said that there is a clear need for more coordination, reconciliation and agreement among those who are currently parliamentary majority. And I think it's terribly important if this country wants to move forward. You may agree or disagree with that thesis. You can say, too, if you don't want me to need any coordination, no co-ordination, no agreement. That could be your attitude. I also said BiH has no time for us to be late, both in the EU, and implementation of the Stabilisation and Association Agreement, and in visa liberalisation. You also have the right to your position and you can say that we are not late. And I, in the end, said that energy here in Parliament, especially from those parties that make up the majority, should at least try to focus on what is signed and agreed. In that sense, I reminded myself of the 2007 January agreement. You can also have the opposite opinion, you have the right 57 to no longer focus on energy, that you may need to open up some other topics on which there is no agreement. But I'm afraid all together, first of all, the citizens of this country, are wasting our time.
ParlaMint-BA_2010-02-17-0.u32693	Replica, Honorary Chairman, Dr. Milorad Živković.
ParlaMint-BA_2010-02-17-0.u32694	Thank you. Dear colleague, if you'd said this the way you just said it, I wouldn't have gotten up to replicate. After what you said, I have nothing to add. But the way you said that, you irritated me to come out here and say something that I may not have wanted to say, although it should probably be a compliment; each of us has a teacher and a boss, if he gets over it in some things, it's a compliment, not any insult. And, at the same time, I mean, it's unnecessary to keep going back to the past, either in the nearer, or in the distant past, and on that basis, we're building legal projects. To live in a period of communism when there were some eight offensives where people were moved, and we know from what space they were in, that time went by. The time is second, in which people in the Dayton Agreement have the right and the ability to choose: to stay, to return, or to make up for property. This is the new strategy and we are going in that direction. And then we'll see who's to blame for why people didn't come back, why people didn't come back, not just to RS, but to all over BiH. _________(?) [[no microphone turned on]] I don't think you have any more replicas. Maybe for the discussion to answer, I don't know if you had any. Dear Ambassador Remzija Kadrić. Here you go.
ParlaMint-BA_2010-02-17-0.u32696	I thank you, Chairman. Just a few previous notes. Six and more years ago in the RS, the RS Parliament, the National Assembly and the Council of People passed the Law on local self-government. And the famous Article 3 provides... that there is an obligation to hire in municipalities according to the '91 census. A year. We know how this law is implemented and to what extent it is not essentially implemented. What do we have now, a state of mind? I speak to those who are against this law. Here's just one piece of information. The ethnic structure of BiH institutions – state on 26.11.1009: Bošnjak have 31.82%, Srbin 40.91%, Hrvat 24.24%, other 3.3%. Why isn't there a population list? So some previous issues must be resolved in this country. Therefore, those who killed the inhabitants must be punished for no reason whatsoever. They used to kill 8,000 people in four or five days. So, those who killed the population must be punished, and if they had continued to do so, if they hadn't been stopped, they would have killed many people, a huge number of people, so... no one would have to write in that sense. So, you have to punish those who killed, you have to punish those employers, you have to punish... the organizers of that country who planned it all. For these reasons, the census must wait. These principles of this law should be accepted. I expect we will accept the principles of this law. A lot of things are given in the amendment phase to fix, when it comes to, here's the proposing around these definitions. Then Article 5 and 7 of these offences, etc. These criminal penalties must be strengthened, etc. I expect that we will support the principles of this law and I certainly expect, although it was rather vague to me, that Denis Bećirović will surely vote for the principles of this law. I'm thanking you.
ParlaMint-BA_2010-02-17-0.u32697	Thank you. Dear Ambassador Branko Dokić. Here you go.
ParlaMint-BA_2010-02-17-0.u32698	Thank you, Mr. Chairman. Perhaps after all these discussions, it was best to remain silent. Because here, I am now learning from this last discussion of colleagues in front of me that this is criminal law. If the law has good intentions, he can't be any criminal. And I think every comment on it is unnecessary. You could say what was said 2,010 years ago -- Bog, forgive them, they don't know what they're doing. But to go back, here's a few sentences, I won't bother you very much, on this matter. First, I fully support Mr. Dolić's discussion in which he says he has the willingness to respect our constitutions, and then we wouldn't need this law either. And so I won't repeat that part. Secondly, I really don't know, not getting into it, good or bad intentions, I don't know what the billmaker's intention is, especially I don't know because there's a lot of people in that club I really appreciate. In my deep conviction, this is only a fruit of desire, let's assume good wishes: a law that cannot be implemented at all or a law that would ignore as many other laws. I'm not gonna pick that up right now. First of all, mentioning the story of some times when the decree of people went somewhere to work, it's forgotten time, time exceeded. We now live in a time of democracy. However, in the face of this and this democracy, we killed each other first, so we destroyed what we created for a few dozen years and enjoyed that democracy. So let's go back to this. The story of sending by decrees has long passed the story and it is impossible to realize it now. I don't speak from which side or where. Secondly, is anyone, here in this commission, and the promoter, did he make a calculation of what it would mean to implement this law, how much more would it cost in this time when we have more than 30% of the unemployed in BiH? What would mean from the point of view when you know that there are a lot of extras in state institutions, and that in all institutions there are a lot of too many. Then this fill-in would now mean some kind of deal, some kind of deal, here's what I'll remember to say, between Banja Luka and Sarajevo about crossings by decree and then, as this law says, with 59 respect for these rules on official employees and compensations, etc. etc., would such migrations, under quotes, mean more additional funds than is already used? Not to say what kind of fill-in would be, if it were appropriate personnel, capable personnel, etc. etc. And would this ever solve the question raised by this law? Would that mean that Marko Marković, Stipe Stipić, will change the place with someone else there in four years, and his family will stay where they are after four years? And most likely it would be if it were even possible to realize this. And on the other hand, dear friends, it's not this, we're telling a story and in the context of European integration, we're looking for ways to reduce corruption in this country. You know exactly how much we had after Dayton to put in an institution of competition for the reception of workers. And there was always a story that it was a way to contain some corruption. This now, giving the executives that they can hire however they want and negotiate: there is the opening of the possibility of corruption related to employment, the full door and the wide open door. So, let me finish with one sentence. Here, with the best of intentions, with everyone's best intention of adopting this, this is impossible to implement. And so I can't support what I'm predetermined to be just one attempt that won't have a single result. And by the way, this really doesn't have to be seen, or, I don't know, for the '91 census, or possibly in 2011, it's not this 50% quota, it doesn't matter. Simply, this is inconclusive and in collegiate with many others already established and, we considered, positive and laws and regulations in this country.
ParlaMint-BA_2010-02-17-0.u32699	Thank you. Replica, honourable MP Bakir Izetbegović, second. Here you go.
ParlaMint-BA_2010-02-17-0.u32700	Well, here's my colleague Dokić calling for the Holy Book, here, Bog forgive them, they don't know what they're doing. We, who want to implement this decision of the Constitutional Court, do not know what we are doing, therefore, and those who have scattered the population and what they have done, know what they are doing, and even Isus is being quoted. It therefore calls on the Holy Book, democracy, human rights, the fight against corruption, to be called against the law, the law that will challenge other laws. Oh, my Bog, all sorts of things. So this is the first reading. Do you intend to support the principles of implementing this Constitutional Court decision 10 years ago? Do you have any intention or no intention? If you don't, press this red and put that thing away, but don't give us our minds here, so I don't say what, is it? I was outside but I was listening to a discussion with the replica of Denis Bećirović, there he is. So, have we consulted, have we made any arrangements, etc. I haven't consulted, but I want to offer a law that will really implement this Constitutional Court decision and that is real. So, here's to supporting the principles, and then after that we'll see whether the deadlines of a year or two days should be, if it takes five years; let the retirement of people, through the reception of trainees, through stimulation, through the express desire of some people to return. We don't have to reach 50%, let's get 40%. 60 We're open to all suggestions. But are you even prepared to support this Constitutional Court decision? That's the question. So, after all, what's the alternative, Denise? Let's say this whole coalition, SNSD, SDA and the others, what's the alternative? The alternative is SDP with SDS, with DNZ. Would you maybe make a better deal? Here, let's say about this law, would you succeed in slightly closer attitudes if you had? Thank you.
ParlaMint-BA_2010-02-17-0.u32701	Dear Member Azra Alajbegović, a replica. Here you go.
ParlaMint-BA_2010-02-17-0.u32702	Dear Mr. Chairman, ladies and gentlemen, I actually just wanted to say that we have examples in BiH where people, not by decree, but by redistributing within the new organisation, new systemization, etc., of new systemization – changed the place of residence because they wanted to continue to work. I'm specifically talking about certain staff of the Federation Medical Control Agency who went to Banja Luka to work at the Agency for Medicinal Products and Medical Devices and were very much in the mood to leave and to be happy that they have the opportunity to install their knowledge into this agency at the state level. And I'd just like to say one more comment, that I hope that the economic base will be the reason why people leave or change places of residence, because we're witnessing that in the era of globalisation people change continents, not cities.
ParlaMint-BA_2010-02-17-0.u32703	Thank you. Replica reply, Ambassador Branko Dokić. Here you go.
ParlaMint-BA_2010-02-17-0.u32704	I don't know if my colleague Izetbegović didn't want to understand or didn't understand. If he doesn't understand, then I'll explain it to him. I didn't even mean the promoter when I said Bog forgive them, they don't know what they're doing. On the contrary, I said there might be a good intention of this law to get rid of something, but this is not the way to solve it. When I quoted that sentence 2,010 years ago, then I thought of the one who discussed it before me, bringing this law into contact with the fact that someone should be punished. And then, given that someone needs to be punished, this law needs to be passed. I think I was completely, completely clear back then. Here, if I'm not, then an additional explanation.
ParlaMint-BA_2010-02-17-0.u32705	Thank you. Replica, honourable Ambassador Adem Huskić. Here you go. 61
ParlaMint-BA_2010-02-17-0.u32706	Thank you. And I will replicate to Mr. Dokić. I mean, not on what he just said, but in the previous one, although he now said that in some way his discussion was actually a replica, it was still a discussion. And I want to say this. I think that in his discussion, in my opinion, one quite good idea, in my opinion rightly, vulgarized to the point that the maltene tried to declare it funny. It's like this law is inconclusive. Why would it be inconclusive law at lower levels, and it is enforceable, the same principles are enforceable at BiH level. We have examples of an army. I know a few here are dozens of people working in central Bosnia as soldiers in the RS, and there's no problem. Niko of them have complained in any way yet. I know people who work at the Department of Direct Taxation, the D.A., the judiciary. I know people, here's the concession committee, I know two or three people who work there. And it's no problem, nor is the problem, as far as I know, of people from the RS who come here to Sarajevo to work or other cities where there are various agencies. Here, it's in Mostar, for example. It's for food control. And what's the issue? So, I don't think he's inconclusive, I think he's enforceable, but there's some reason why he wants to... [[consultations of Members of the College]] Can I go on?
ParlaMint-BA_2010-02-17-0.u32708	Well, I'm sorry, we have some consultations to make. It's 10 to 2, we have to tell you when we're gonna end this session. At 2:00, we said we'd break up. If you think the Kolegijum can't communicate with each other when you're talking, okay, we can make that conclusion. Here you go.
ParlaMint-BA_2010-02-17-0.u32709	I think this law is a good lacmus paper to check out who it really is for a comeback, and who it isn't. And the one who isn't, then he needs to say why and why he's not and who's actually protecting himself by refusing this law. I don't see anything wrong. It's a sad thing that we came in a position to balance these things with the law. But here we are, better by law than by no means. But to say there aren't enough people to work, that's not true. We have a large number of unemployed returnees, and here I am in Bugojn Serbs who are not working. And that is what people very qualified, more qualified than those who work in the municipality, for example. And I say it openly. That's true. Unfortunately, there's nothing I can do to change that. I'm sure there are such cases in every city or more or less equal. Therefore, there is no reason not to support this law and even to have repressive measures against those who do not. We know that here, there is a public secret in BiH institutions when competitions are, when someone reports that it is known whether this position belongs to Bošnjak, Srbin or Hrvat and no one is causing a problem about it. He says, that's the position, the rest of them, the 62 that have applied, there's a way they can't be accepted. There's no reason not to do it on other levels, from the municipality to the others. Thank you.
ParlaMint-BA_2010-02-17-0.u32710	Thank you. Dear Ambassador Momčilo Novaković, discussion. Here you go.
ParlaMint-BA_2010-02-17-0.u32711	The Honorable Chairman, distinguished colleagues and colleagues, you see, this law, in fact, we have one of those laws where the degree of opportunity to be accepted vice-proportionally by the number of discussions. In fact, the less chance the law is gonna get support, the more it gets us to discuss it. That, of course, I was thinking about whether to join that figure, thinking that I would actually help the SDA achieve the goal he wanted, which is to discuss this without adopting it. Well, I will, I will, but I've decided to contribute to this attitude, and because of that, here, and I'm going to bring a few aspects of this problem here. Namely, they exist or can be classified as practical political, so if you want the political aspects of observing this law: Why is this law practically not possible to implement? You see, first of all, I'm not talking about the '91 list. the year, any list and any one of those in 2011, including the one in '71, is not possible... in this way to implement in practice. And not just in this country, but in any country. In fact, it would be good for us to have answers to some questions in this law. First of all, how it is possible to apply a law contrary to all legislation that defines not only the employment issue but also other aspects of this law and not only the legislation at entity levels but also the opposite and one part of BiH-level legislation. As we know, we cannot order our laws to entities to change their laws, that we do not have that jurisdiction. And if we don't have it, then it's only because it's not possible to apply it and not go into further problems in the application of this law. This law did not respond or the legislator gave no answer to several very important questions in order for this law to gain one dose of seriousness and a better chance of being adopted in Parliament. And that is: how much will workers be employed by this law, how many workers will be left without a job by applying this law, how much will change the place of residence, how much time it will take to implement this law, how much it will cost us, and we can still list a series of questions that are not answered in this bill. And that's them, let's say, practical... aspects of looking at the possibility of applying this law. I fear that now entering the story of job payments, i.e. broad powers there, the only result of this law would not be the formation of a new commission of counterpart Sefer Halilović, which would deal with some other aspects of the application of this law. It's obvious that this is about political motives, and it's not controversial. It would be good if we could get as close as possible to applying constitutional provisions both in entities and at BiH level. Obviously, it'll take time, not the law. And here it's not the law that's the problem. It's the weather and some other problems. That's why I'm sure we spend a lot of time on something that's not real. Even 63, and if we had adopted this law, the legislator would have found himself in big trouble and only then realized all the inability to implement this law. Look, what's the matter, I said there are, after all, political aspects of this law. If the intention of the SDA to do what it says in this law is truly sincere, then they could have done it in those municipalities where they have chiefs, and they have many municipalities where they have commissioners. I'd like to know how busy it is there under this law, or the way people are supposed to be employed by this law? If you knew that, then I, believe me, would be much safer in the honesty of the promoter and his truly sincere intentions. And in the end, I must say that I am terribly disappointed here by one of my colleagues Kadrić's findings. I've been thinking about what that sentence means. Those who killed people must be punished. And by bringing it into the context of this law, I was trying to bring this here in this short time into the context of this law, I thought it was the courts, the prosecution, that it was the individual responsibility, and not the one that my colleague Kadrić was talking about, the responsibility of the state, because he said must be punished and the states, meaning, not the responsibility of the state or, God Bog, the responsibility of the people. So, it's not me, I really don't understand that kind of thinking, and I wish I hadn't heard it in this house, especially if I hadn't heard it about this law, because I think it's in a very ugly way that brought this problem into line with what my colleague Kadrić said. But of course, each of us has the right here to say anything, so I don't know why my colleague Kadrić couldn't do it. I remember in the last session, and I'm going to finish this: when we discussed the April package, then a colleague who didn't support the April package from the SDA Club said - we stand up for one president even if he was a Srbin. Thank you.
ParlaMint-BA_2010-02-17-0.u32712	For the first time, Ambassador Velimir Jukić. Here you go.
ParlaMint-BA_2010-02-17-0.u32713	This law promotes certain principles that are absolutely acceptable to me and at the level of principle this law is well designed, but the question is the solutions themselves whether it is high enough. And I would say that this is how an ambitious law should not be rejected at the principle level because of some imperfect solutions, offered solutions. In fact, from previous discussions, we heard some objections and I could agree with some of the objections of the solutions themselves, but as it is about first reading, and in the first reading we are discussing and discussing the principles of the law, I think there were no quality arguments to challenge the principles of this law. And they are also contained in the Constitution of BiH, namely aneks IV. in the preamble of the constitutional peoples, their equality, and in particular these principles promoted here are also confirmed in the Constitutional Court's 2000 ruling that all citizens, therefore constituent peoples, are constitutional throughout BiH. It would be very important and very encouraging if one such law could be passed. That would mean, I would say, a new chapter, a new era in this newer postwar history of BiH. Because today, the situation is such that in many municipal councils or congregations, as they are already called, it doesn't matter, we don't have... any representatives of the people in this representative/64 representative body legislatively, although before the war in some municipalities or in these municipalities there have lived a few dozen percent of that people who are not present at all. I think objectively whoever wants to deal with politics and thinks about the future of this country in a positive sense, how it's declared to be a multiethnic state, it's actually not possible to think of this problem as a real and big problem. And one way to solve this important problem is to try through this or similar law, but which promotes these principles with one positive discrimination, and here it is, it is not banned, even I think it is necessary and necessary in this time and time in BiH – trying to at least somewhat mitigate what happened during the war and wartime, where, already again and again, a very big change in ethnic structure has been made, especially in certain parts and municipalities in BiH. Perhaps this law could have another addition on behalf of itself, so to speak of a minimum, then a continuation and proportional representation. I believe that a minimum representation in municipal councils is also needed, and that is something even wider than this, which is derived from these solutions, which is regardless of the percentage of one of the three constituent peoples to ensure at least one representative from every nation in the municipal councils of all municipalities in BiH. This would have, I'm sure, a great excuse and certainly be one incentive for a more correct dialogue. So, then in every local environment... in its assembly or council, we would have the opportunity to hear representatives of all three constituent nations. The problems are of course different, but they are also heard from the perspective of the constituent peoples. I think that the implementation, adoption and implementation of such a law would have a great incentive to return, because it would also be ensured by a practical example that... there is time, space, places and needs in all environments. And here, I really won't be long. So, I think there would be a need here to complete these solutions, because the law is very, I said, by its scope and breadth and what would result from its realization, ambitious and with so few articles and so little text, it seems to me that there are not enough definitions,... solutions for everything that could be a problem in the realisation of this law. But as I repeat, the first reading of principles, I think the principles are correct, that they are good and that they would contribute to overall progress in BiH. And that's why I support these principles, and on behalf of the HDZ BiH Club, I also point out that I also support the Club with these principles. So, we will also support the law in the first reading; of course, if it passes, then for the second reading, it will be necessary for the second stage and I expect that we will also participate in through amendments to repairing the solution in the proposed text of the law. Thank you.
ParlaMint-BA_2010-02-17-0.u32714	Thank you. Business intervention, the second deputy chairman, Mr. Beriz Belkić.
ParlaMint-BA_2010-02-17-0.u32715	I'm asking for an apology from my colleagues who are currently registered, maybe I should have suggested this earlier. So it is obvious that, with honorable exceptions, of course, we have made a good step away from the agenda, or subject matter. And I suggest, since we don't have many points of the 65th agenda yet, that we continue on this agenda point, not to take a break, but to continue the replicas, the discussions, and to say everything that is independent of the agenda point. I mean, today's a good day for these things, just so we don't take a break from this session and do it, I'm serious. And to say what anyone has, to remember what happened in April, what happened in '92, to remember everything, to bring everyone out a thousand times what we had to say and to spend that day like that. And yes, I didn't answer for the debate, and I won't answer again, so my impression is that this is the testimony of a completely correct claim. So, the decisions of the courts, especially the Constitutional Court, are being conducted, as soon as we start to discuss these things, then we come where we are. And I realized this initiative that we're trying to do it, but obviously it's not working.
ParlaMint-BA_2010-02-17-0.u32716	Thank you. Dear Ambassador Drago Kalabić, replica. Of course, all of you sign up freely, you can do the replica and the speech. [[Common discussion]] Nothing is under the sea, decrees will be ordered, only by those who will. Here you go.
ParlaMint-BA_2010-02-17-0.u32718	I totally accept the suggestion, and I've never been to college sessions, and I wonder if they react when these things come, which they know they don't have much, not to say, or any chance of success, or if they know they're going to cause this, so I'd like to know if members of the Kolegijum say it's not wise to suggest something like this. So to say, to call for this debate today, I am standing on... this... but in terms.
ParlaMint-BA_2010-02-17-0.u32719	No microphone turned on
ParlaMint-BA_2010-02-17-0.u32720	Well, I'm, Mr. Belkić, I just expected you to say what you think at the College, and I know what you think about this, and I think it would be enough for me for you to say what you think about this, but well, that's yours. I... when I thought about whether to participate, what Mr. Novaković just said, in the mass of these lies and frauds, hypocrisy and here deception of the public, then I think if everyone participates in what I would be an exception. She's got a folk where everyone, that one and that one. Now, you see, why did I answer,...I don't understand that political parties that have full consent to this law don't apply it where they can and where they don't have a third. It doesn't get in my head and I'm trying to tell myself right now - what's stopping them? Here prevents RS, here RS is 66 ugly, leprosy, it's like this and it won't go through, and like us, here's something against, we have objections, but I don't understand where there's consent. Here, there are political parties in this House today, I'd say there's honey and milk on the ground. Let's say, here's that these parties that agree with the proposal in this law, to show if they can do that, how it works in Stoc. And to say -- here, you see it can, we applied it, and now we move on, they have those that won't. So let's just let it go, let it go, let it go, let it go, let it go, let it go, let it go, let it go, let it go, let it go, let it go, let it go, because we know how things are, we know how they are, we know how they are, we show this other person to Europe or to this or to that or to that, and the situation on the ground, because we know the situation, everybody knows it. So what we can do on our own example, let's do it, let's do it or let's say it doesn't work. But if he's not going in the field, he's not going in this House either, he's not going anywhere. And then that, because if we keep fooling ourselves like we are here, and we take each other's eyes out and there's nothing we can do about it, I don't think it's necessary. At least, if nothing else, we all know everything and we know how things are between partners, coalitions, whatever you want.
ParlaMint-BA_2010-02-17-0.u32721	Replication complete.
ParlaMint-BA_2010-02-17-0.u32722	Thank you.
ParlaMint-BA_2010-02-17-0.u32723	You can call again freely. Dear Ambassador Remzija Kadrić, replica.
ParlaMint-BA_2010-02-17-0.u32724	It's just that... it doesn't turn out that everything's going well, it's going well in the field. Here, drago, I just said in BiH institutions 31% of Bošnjak, 40% of Srbin, so it's going in the field, things are going well, this is progressing.
ParlaMint-BA_2010-02-17-0.u32725	Thank you. Dear Ambassador Drago Kalabić, second replica. Here you go.
ParlaMint-BA_2010-02-17-0.u32726	Mr. Kadrić, I was just listening to your data. Since you're 100% for the state and since you've moved to a hundred ten, which someone says, you're now a state in the state and you're completely separated from the state and you obviously have calculators separate from the state. And the list you're working for yourself. Where did you find that data, where did you find that information that stood the way you speak? And when you talk about the terrain, when you talk about the terrain, the terrain... what you say, the data field is Sarajevo. Is that the field? How can there be terrain on Mars, where is the terrain you're talking about? Well, I, please, so I've been listening, here in the field is this condition, which is the terrain, it's the Sarajevo field, I'm, here's Sarajevo, most of the institutions are located in Sarajevo, it's the terrain. As the terrain of Sarajevo stands, here I am ready by midnight to discuss the position of this 67-yard Sarajevo. If you found it, I don't know, somewhere near the Orthodox church you could find some concentration at about five or ten meters, you couldn't go any further. If we want the terrain, the terrain of Sarajevo to which it applies, has nothing to do with the real situation, Sarajevo's terrain. Something isolated, imaginary, so these imaginations are over our heads, you know that in BiH we have long lived a double life. Life goes by the woods, and our story goes by the road. I mean, here's one of the indicators of that...
ParlaMint-BA_2010-02-17-0.u32727	Here, now you'll get an answer. Dear Ambassador Remzija Kadrić, data.
ParlaMint-BA_2010-02-17-0.u32728	I'm obliged to give an answer. So these are the data provided by the Secretary-General of the Council of Ministers for one parliamentary question which is...
ParlaMint-BA_2010-02-17-0.u32729	No microphone turned on
ParlaMint-BA_2010-02-17-0.u32730	This is, I'm talking about the data, first you asked about the data, first you asked about the data. So, Sulejman Tihić, chairman of the House of Peoples, asked a delegate question and received this information. So these are the data that came from the Council of Ministers,
ParlaMint-BA_2010-02-17-0.u32731	No microphone turned on
ParlaMint-BA_2010-02-17-0.u32732	In which is the chairman of Špirić. So that's one part of the answer. As for the terrain, on the ground, this, therefore, is not Sarajevo, and on the ground, the situation is catastrophic; as far as the RS field is concerned, in municipalities, there is the number of employees in municipalities as regards Bošnjak and Hrvat at the top of the list and there is 2%. So that's the field. This is where we started,... in BiH institutions there are 31% of Bošnjak, 40% of Srbin. This is, we're talking about BiH institutions, and it's not Sarajevo, it's BiH institutions. It's on the ground... state.
ParlaMint-BA_2010-02-17-0.u32733	Don't throw it away, please. I see that Mr. Belkić's invitation was a fruit. Dear Ambassador Slavko Jovičić. Here you go. 68
ParlaMint-BA_2010-02-17-0.u32734	No, I kept the replica for a purpose and, I said, after the presentation of my esteemed colleague, Nanić, I had to guard... because before I was fast and spent, so later you warn me that I have no right to replication. It is logical, Mr. Nanić, that so many Srbin have returned to the Bosnian Petrovic, because 74% of Srbin lived there before the war. It's logical that so many Srbin have returned to Graho's because it's there on the '91 list. 96.4% of Srbin lived in the year. It's logical that so many Srbin have returned to Graho's because it's listed in '91. The year lived 97.3% of Srbin. But there's no percentages now, there's no people, someone's been killed, moved away, etc. And then I want to remind myself that I insisted, insisted from the 2nd session of the House of Representatives until 43rd, somehow he wore me an elan, and asked the same parliamentary question until 43rd and quit. And the same was the case, from 2nd to 43th, that all the data on the national structure of the employees was delivered to me and today I adopted a new term in order to reconcile the views of the distinguished counterpart Kalabić and the esteemed colleague Džaferović – in the joint original institutions. And I never got an answer, got a partial from some ministry, so the incorrect, so I set up later, so our professional services returned this one. And I never got that information, and if I had won it in time, my distinguished colleague who belongs to my entity, but first MEP, Remzija Kadrić would not have posted and dated these percentages today, given to him by someone. Why didn't someone give me a 39th, 41st session? Here, from 2nd to 43th, so the 41st session nobody gave me. Dear counterpart Remzija Kadrić has never run for office and won the issue. So, some relationship, as we say, was here. But, well, if they were true, I'd say-- well done, this is all fine. But we all know they're not. Dear colleague Milica was talking about the DKP network. And I specifically set it up for a while, so I took it out on cars, 800 employees using it, from secretary to assistant, secretary. And we eight MPs sitting in the same office, missing two chairs. And they find me who can barely stand on my feet that I have to stand, like me, because they don't respect me there, but good. So no journalist will write this, but he will write - today's chaos was, a fight in Parliament. And if you want this, not to remember the 2nd and 41st, but today I am disappointed that Mr. Izetbegović and distinguished counterpart Bećirović did not say; I said at the 20th, 30th session, Mr. Izetbegović, let's do something together, remember. And you said, We will, We will, We will, and today we have come forth with the law, We have suggested it ourselves. And if we'd gone to what I begged you to do
ParlaMint-BA_2010-02-17-0.u32735	Time!
ParlaMint-BA_2010-02-17-0.u32736	And if we'd tried it together, maybe we'd have done something, and this way we won't, I'm sorry.
ParlaMint-BA_2010-02-17-0.u32737	Okay, maybe it'd be better originally a joint institution, but good. Dear Ambassador Šefik Džaferović. Here you go. 69
ParlaMint-BA_2010-02-17-0.u32738	So, Mr. Kalabić, when it comes to the field, there's only one terrain and it's called the territory of the BiH state, and it's yours and my terrain and the terrain, so all of us. And we all have the right to this field no matter where we live at a given moment, a place to live, where we live. And that's how it's gonna stay forever and never limit some terrain to some. So the ground is us 4.5 million as far as we are, the estimates are from 3 million to 4.3 and 800 to 4 and 200, 4 and 300, 4 and 500, that's the terrain of us living in this country. And no one will ever limit access to any of us and the right to any part of this country's terrain. So much for the terrain. And as for the serious intention of the U.S.A. to propose this law, we are very serious about this, and we are thinking very seriously about realising this. We do not claim that the situation in Sarajevo is great, but it is certainly better, much better than in Banja Luka, Bijeljina and in many other places in BiH, but it is not satisfactory, we know it and say it is not. And we are ready to implement the '91 census throughout BiH. For years and for starters, here, in these... quantities or in these categories, if you will, we can open everything up, this is what Mr. Lozančić was talking about in his discussion, all of it, but here's to start at least to show a good will to be this. And if you think we're politicizing and we're proposing this just like that, believe me, today I've had a few of these discussions harder than many other discussions about some other points of the agenda, believe me that I have no desire at all, or any of us to politicize. But if you think we're politicizing, help us, then vote for this bill to adopt it, and see if we're politicizing it or not. That's it, thank you.
ParlaMint-BA_2010-02-17-0.u32739	Well, we're on our way. Dear MP, First Deputy, Mr. Niko Lozančić, replica. There won't be a college until we finish this part of the agenda.
ParlaMint-BA_2010-02-17-0.u32740	Thank you, Mr. President. It was a long time ago and I had to, this isn't a replica to anyone individually, I came out to tell you all here that I'm ashamed to be sitting in this hall here today. I don't know how the rest of you feel, this idea, whether it's political or serious, was, I don't know, I don't know, done, unworked, whatever the hell it is, has the right to experience it, but we've gone so far in our showing ourselves as we are. We made fun of her here today. We made a collective mockery of her. We led her to nonsense. We've sent a message to a lot of people in this country who don't think, and here I'm going to say, how we here in this hall think, no matter what they're mine or someone else's voters or those who don't choose anyone, because they don't like anyone in this country they might choose. Unfortunately, we have demonstrated today that many of them are right, because the question really is: if we have one elemental human right, one elemental feeling, I don't know, and I don't know, the possibility of repairing one human gesture, here even if it was miniature, laughing. So, we've come all this way to make fun of it, it's no longer a question of whether or not we're gonna do it. We've shown that 15 years, all together, we won't. I said in the first debate - this is a good test. Has anything changed in 15 years? Unfortunately, nothing has changed. We've gone further. 70 So, we're trained, we're going to prove that it doesn't make any sense. Listen, now that someone, I don't know who lived and was born in Kaknja, he's not normal when he thinks he should live in Kaknja again. That's what we showed here today. And I'm talking about Kaknja, I'm just saying what I'm from Kaknja. So, I wouldn't want any other place, so that someone doesn't personally experience that I'm calling someone here right now, but we said today that these people are insane who are even thinking about it. Where will you think about it? This is BiH. It's not good at thinking. It's not positive. After all, knowingly or not, with ridicule at all the possibility of something like this, we have sent clear messages that we approve of the situation that is today, in a certain way and methods that have occurred in the present state. And here, I'm not going to go into the debate and elaborate how it came to be that someone who was born somewhere doesn't live where he was born anymore. If we don't want something, let's try to keep our dignity. And don't make fun of it, because I have to say that I'm experiencing now that they're all making fun of each other, so, literally, all those who dared to pass the established policy in BiH to try to live where they were born again. Don't at least make fun of them if you're not ready to help them.
ParlaMint-BA_2010-02-17-0.u32741	Dear Ambassador Slavko Matić, replica. Here you go.
ParlaMint-BA_2010-02-17-0.u32742	Very short for my esteemed denominator and colleague Jovičić. I am pleased that he is in a situation to say that it is logical that Srbin in high percentage have returned to Grahovo and Drvar, because in a very high percentage and were represented in the structure of the '91 census, but I would still prefer to say that I too was logical that the high percentage of Hrvat returned to Shamac, Brod, Dervent, say, three municipalities where Hrvat were in percentage between 40% and 50% and represented a relative majority, i.e. they were in the highest number compared to the other two constituent nations in those three municipalities, and today the number of returnees is measured all in several hundred individuals in each municipality.
ParlaMint-BA_2010-02-17-0.u32743	Thank you. Dear Ambassador Denis Bećirović, discussion. Here you go.
ParlaMint-BA_2010-02-17-0.u32744	I want to say first that this is a serious and important topic for BiH. And I will agree with my colleague, Lozančić, who also noticed that the atmosphere is not in line with the subject, and the topic is, I repeat, very serious and important. People in BiH expect concrete results during this fourth year of behaviour. And for these four years, BiH citizens have had the opportunity to convince themselves countless times and to see what the parties that form government in BiH disagree on. That is why we, colleague Izetbegović, as representatives of the largest opposition party here in Parliament wanted to reverse the situation and ask the question and see what can be agreed on here in the BiH Parliament. And it makes sense that we asked what happened to January 2007. Is there more of this agreement, can anything from it be realized, etc.? I'm apostropheing him because he's also signed, and adopted, and accepted as opposed to some other things. 71 I asked you on behalf of the SDP Club if you have consulted other parties that make up the parliamentary majority. And you said you didn't, but you suggested it today. I must remind you of the fact that it is your President, Mr Sulejman Tihić, is a man who talks daily about the need for agreement, for compromise, for negotiation, etc. In this regard, to the background of such views of your party's president, it is a little surprising that you have not gone on such serious issues or acted in accordance with the principles set out by your party's president, so to speak, consultation, etc. In that sense, I asked if your goal today is to propose this and that someone else refuses today, or that your goal today is to propose this and eventually get most of it. I didn't get an answer to that question. Instead, you asked the question - what's the alternative? I don't think there's any need to ask any more false questions in BiH - what's the alternative? - Especially not that guy, so if we pull out, some other guy's gonna show up, so what else do you need? It's a formula that's already been read. According to that formula, one should rule forever for hundreds of years, and the other could be in opposition for hundreds of years. What's the alternative or not, that's what the BiH citizens will say, at least that's where we can agree. But anyway, I'm glad, colleague Izetbegović, that you started talking about the alternative. I also think the time has come to ask what's the alternative and to look for an alternative in this country. In this regard, we in the SDP do not think that an alternative should be sought individually. We all need to start looking for an alternative to this endless situation currently in BiH.
ParlaMint-BA_2010-02-17-0.u32745	Dear Ambassador Sadik Bahtić, replica.
ParlaMint-BA_2010-02-17-0.u32746	I thought I wasn't answering, but I'm going to be so cute to replicate my colleagues from the party of the ancient past. What kind of social democracy are you? You've been in power for 50 years, so this people made sure you ruled. So listen to the others. Whoever he is and who lives where the party of the ancient past is now in power, he sees what that power is. Nowhere more corruption, nowhere more crime, nepotism, mobbing, that's the one - is that an alternative? Is there any party in BiH that would now like to go to power with the party of the ancient past? There's no one here, you're all alone. Who are you reading the parliamentary majority lesson to? Who's going to go out with you tomorrow...? You offer, you pray, you give money, you take money from the people, no one will be with you. Is that an alternative? Recruiting – is that an alternative? Crime!
ParlaMint-BA_2010-02-17-0.u32747	microphone not enabled
ParlaMint-BA_2010-02-17-0.u32748	And you keep your mouth shut, ma'am, it wasn't me, I...
ParlaMint-BA_2010-02-17-0.u32749	Please don't talk like that, feel free to say what you have. Everyone has the right to say what they have in a dignified way. Please, it's yours. 72
ParlaMint-BA_2010-02-17-0.u32750	Thank you.
ParlaMint-BA_2010-02-17-0.u32751	Thank you. I know it's hard to hear second thoughts, but you have to listen. Dear Ambassador Branko Dokić, replica. Here you go.
ParlaMint-BA_2010-02-17-0.u32752	There's a replica at the end of this debate, and I hope it'll be the end of this debate.
ParlaMint-BA_2010-02-17-0.u32753	It's not even close, because we haven't come out yet to tell you what we've got.
ParlaMint-BA_2010-02-17-0.u32754	I must say, it is very incorrect of some of the debaters to impute that this difficult issue in BiH does not want to be resolved. It's very incorrect. I'm just saying, and no one here has convinced me that it's different, that this is impossible to implement. That's the thing. A completely wrong approach has been taken to address a major issue in BiH.
ParlaMint-BA_2010-02-17-0.u32755	First Deputy Chairman, Mr. Niko Lozančić... third reporting... Here you go.
ParlaMint-BA_2010-02-17-0.u32756	Dear colleagues, my name is Niko Lozančić, and I'm not much of a representative and I'm going to be replicating the distinguished representative Branko Dokić. Dear colleague, I respect your thinking that you appreciate that this is impossible. I also respect your will to say and respect your political will to do everything to show that this is not possible. But let me have the right to think that it's possible, that it's very real, that it's very desirable. The other thing is my impression, and my assessment, and my judgment... here, it doesn't have to be mine: whoever was listening to us today, I guess it could have come to the same conclusion. So we really don't want to discuss this seriously. And that's what I said, and without intending to force anyone or force anyone to change their political thinking.
ParlaMint-BA_2010-02-17-0.u32757	Thank you. Dear Ambassador Drago Kalabić. Here you go. 73
ParlaMint-BA_2010-02-17-0.u32758	Unfortunately, it's impossible not to react. More than 200,000 voters stand behind SNSD MPs and there are no other people and there are no other voters. Maybe it won't stop anymore, but they're standing there and we know who we're talking about. That someone is going to tell us that we fell from heaven here, that there's some people who don't like what we're talking about, so it's not true. We're not ashamed to be here. We're not hypocritical either. What we think, that's what we're saying. The hypocrites came to this land, doing one thing and speaking another. To speak in this room one thing, in front of the international community, to give a lecture on beauty, and when they return home to act worse than what they allegedly talked about here. And it's familiar to everyone. What people think of us, politics and politicians, the power of the entire country is in this room. All political parties hold power over every inch, if you will, BiH. And the people know that these people here can do anything, possibly, to solve all questions. And then it's hypocritical for those of you who are here to agree that as soon as they get out of this room, they're not agreeable about anything. It's hypocrisy. If it's not political insolence, then I don't know what it is. If it's all about sending nice messages from this pay phone, and in practice being quite the opposite, it's ten times more dangerous than those who honestly here say what realists are, after all, and qualified is reality. In an emotional sense, it's not good, because you can't change reality. Reality is reality. And we certainly, we have no idea that we're sending illusions and running away from reality because we have to live in this reality. The fact that someone knows everything and is trying to spread the illusion that something he hasn't given in practice is, I guess people say, so let's show it on your own example. Come on, all the political parties have power, with those you can't, you can't, they say publicly that there's something that they don't agree with. But again, I'm stressing, those who can... allegedly agree here, I don't understand why they don't agree outside this room, or they want to send a message about some beauty, some values that others allegedly don't. Well, people, everyone in this country knows everything and everybody knows it well. The Party of Democratic Action runs a fully-resor for return to RS, leading it well. Their high-ranking official is very pleased with the way he does it. He enjoys all the privileges, high privileges of the RS government and he has no objections to the RS government's policy. You know his famous correspondence, "Hef, he needs you boss." In that sentence, he told one truth about the relationship with that one, and he well knows how this policy is being implemented and how much money is being invested in returning. Do you have a statement from this man that something is disputed? The SDA official, the senior official, the minister of the RS government who runs the resort? The fact is that he has allocated a few permeable funds for the return of Hrvat. That's a fact. But it was separated by a senior SDA official, who is the Deputy Prime Minister. That's right. I think it's hypocritical to do this job like that, and to spread the story here that it's not good. If we're principled, then we say that's the way it is. So, many have forgotten that Mr. Branković, a minister with full authority, has enormous resources. If he's using them the best way, here's what the returnees say, here's what we don't appreciate it. He was given the autonomous right to kind of distribute it and do it. You should have brought Mr. Branković to be one of the interpreters of your bill today, to hear what he says about it. Or is there a story in Brussels, one in Banja Luka, one in Sarajevo? We're against it. There's only one story, one truth, one reality. She's what she is, she's who she is. We're not defending her, just doing the work, what someone's imputing us to support her. We just don't lie, we don't lie. It's not worth lying about, people know everything. 74 Mr. Džaferović, sport, football field, you've seen he's not naked, he has lines. He's a little bit divided. So they have rules on how to play on what part of the field, you can't play offside, Mr. Džaferović. And you can't just play with your ball. _________(?) /microphone off/ Well, period, the field is, so please, I said dot. I want to prove how untrustworthy this SDA proposal is, and that is why we are making fun of this proposal because it is not credible. You have a chance, Mr. Džaferović, in the Zavidovics, in Zenica. Here, let's forget this unfortunate Sarajevo we agree on is no good. So put it down on that example, show it, and then point whatever part of BiH you want, and say, "Go ahead and do it like this." But looking for something you don't want, that doesn't occur to you to make, to live in illusions to make it virtual? Well, at least give the promoters to do it. Here, those communities they're moving out with now, here they are, moving in with these people who've lived there for hundreds of years, providing them with security, and the rest, they didn't live there. You have a chance to do that. And then we'll believe it. That's what I'm talking about. Isn't it the most normal thing to show something you stand for on your own example where you can do it? And where you can't say -- you see, these and they don't give it, no one here in this country. And that, if someone doesn't like what I say, that's reality. That's right. We bear objective responsibility all for this condition. And now from this poor state, for which we all bear responsibility, suddenly someone wants to stand out and say, we give, just these others... they don't give. That's not true. On any case, we can expose that policy. Is that for day-to-day political purposes? We're not going into this proposal of yours, is that for the purpose of a pre-election campaign, and we're not going in, but we can't keep quiet that we don't say that he's really illogical, that he's not implementing, that he's causing anarchy and that he's unconstitutional. We can't get away from saying that. And when we said that this proposal would follow a report on a spent ten billion for the returnees, we wouldn't get the consent. The various acrobatics here were the commission that was to determine: these are the lives that meant for these people to return. Why can't we come, here in this House, to this truth? We can't come with all kinds of acrobatics! Do you think with 10 billion we couldn't fit the crowd of those people? So we don't lie to each other. Here, you can see that people have no security problems in all of BiH. When I say they don't, not that it's rooted out, but it's reduced to really one measure that, to be honest, is tolerable. So it's not a problem anymore. And in these material people, we robbed them. We took their money, we took tens of billions of them. We didn't let them come back so people could live. And I'm sorry that we can't keep quiet about the hypocritical messages from this House when it comes back. If someone did what they did, it's their turn to pay the bill first. Why did he take that money from those people? It's not small money. Why didn't he let them get back? And people sent out of the world to help those unfortunates first. And there's a general agreement here that these money has been taken, here's 10 years we can't get to it, because with all the acrobatics here, it's preventing the commission from forming and all the stimulants are not going to form a commission. But no one has the courage to come out and say, "They do stupid things, they're not taken." No, they're all agreed -- they're taken, but here we are with these finesse, and we're not giving them money, and we're not going to provide a quorum, like this. These are the reasons why we believe that such a proposal should not be put on the agenda, especially if someone thinks in BiH that such a thing can go through without the previous 75 agreements of a broad platform on which we should all work. It's not a dispute, it's not a dispute. And every one, I end up with, who attributes us to saying that we advocate that this condition remains, not even a word, to praise such a condition, not a word, but that we will be liars and hypocrites, we will not.
ParlaMint-BA_2010-02-17-0.u32760	Thank you. Dear Ambassador Šefik Džaferović, third call. Here you go.
ParlaMint-BA_2010-02-17-0.u32761	Well, I have to admit that all the time I've been trying, Mr. Chairman, colleagues and colleagues, I've hoped to catch the start and end of this discussion, that I'll find something in it, and I have to admit that I've been wronged and finally say what I can say well I married what I trusted. But here, let me say two or three things anyway. Mr. Kalabić, release Branković, Minister of the Government of the Republic of Slovenia. The man has a budget there that makes 1:30 the rate of return against staying in favour of the rest.
ParlaMint-BA_2010-02-17-0.u32762	That's not true.
ParlaMint-BA_2010-02-17-0.u32763	So there's 1:20 for example.
ParlaMint-BA_2010-02-17-0.u32764	The other way around.
ParlaMint-BA_2010-02-17-0.u32765	Well, 20 for staying or 30, 1 for coming back and having a government policy that works that way. Let's let it go. Let us here, which is up to us, to you, to me, to the 42 of us sitting here in Parliament, say that we want to do this thing in Prnjavor, and in Zavidovica, and in Zenica, and in Sarajevo, and in Capljina, and in Konjica, throughout BiH. Here, I say it. Don't, don't, don't, you know what you're saying. You say to me, "What are you calling me, or what are you calling me to do together? Do you do it in Zenica, in the Zavidovics in Sarajevo?" ... I say, "Wait a minute, man, it's not just BiH. BiH is also Prnjavor, BiH is Banja Luka, BiH is both Neum and Capljina, so I say, let's go Livno, let's do it together throughout Bosnia. We are the ones who represent everything in BiH." It's no argument for you to say to me, "So whoever stops you, do it." I say I will, here's the whole country. And that's the problem. I didn't hear an argument to refuse this. After all, I mean, we said once, these are the obligations we already have in BiH. Anyone who doesn't do it is obstructing them. 76
ParlaMint-BA_2010-02-17-0.u32766	Thank you. Dear Ambassador Sefer Halilović. Choose a replica, a discussion, go ahead.
ParlaMint-BA_2010-02-17-0.u32767	Looks like the best thing to do is to give up on the replicas and the discussions. Let me just say two or three things. The first thing, briefly, fellow Dokić that this is impossible, is possible. It's possible, from the state, anything is possible. When power is formed, anything is possible. Secondly, this law generally has my support, but there are shortcomings in that it did not predict at some levels parity, at other levels proportional, then it would be more realistic. There's got to be a little care in Bosnia about that, too. Third, we had what you're talking about, and in Sarajevo, and in Zenica, and in other places, we don't now. But now it's a long topic, I wouldn't talk about it. And in the end, let me make a little joke, talk about alternatives. The alternative is what one poet said: that from here on out of this country we should move the Bosniaks and move around the world and the Bošnjak, and the Srbin, and the Hrvat, and the others, and bring some normal people to enjoy this beautiful country. That seems to be the best alternative.
ParlaMint-BA_2010-02-17-0.u32768	Thank you. The next is the Honorable Chairman, Dr. Milorad Živković.
ParlaMint-BA_2010-02-17-0.u32769	Of course, and to use my right to discuss, briefly. We probably have local communities in this country, municipalities, cantons, entities, a state that works by law and constitution. And you know whose jurisdiction it is. This issue, which was wanted to be resolved in this way, is not the authority to resolve this by law of the Parliamentary Assembly, nor in this decision of the Constitutional Court, says it is the jurisdiction to resolve the Parliamentary Assembly. The proposal for an anti-constitutional law cannot resolve this issue. The law as a law, apart from being anti-constitutional, is both retrograde and inconclusive. It's said here on many occasions. If this issue had been seriously resolved, as Niko Lozančić said, then this issue would have been opened in principle: let us talk about the implementation of the Constitution or the House of Human Rights here in BiH and all judgments, and, among other things, this and see what the path of resolving it was to resolve it seriously, so that we can see whether it is law or whether it is something that needs to be resolved by each other, and not in a way that we can open this non-serious debate here, so that we can agree that there is a field (between other things, there are domestic, guests on the ground, it is written on the light, and it is known how they behave both) or we open this issue to mention our colleagues in parliaments in Serbia, Croatia; perhaps they would want to adopt this law, even in our environment. You know, this is a matter of connected dishes. It is not just the BiH issue of BiH, obviously we need few people to implement this law from these other republics, but there and in those republics to talk about it, if we are to open this topic seriously and widely. Since it wasn't intentional, then no wonder it came in a funny way to talk about this topic. The only goal politically was that on that scale, you know, being rejected by an entity 77 by another law; I'm afraid you won't be recalculating yourself in that one combination, because such laws as will surely be viewed by someone from the OHR, the international community, will only be one reason to say these unserious, anti-constitutional laws, no wonder they were rejected by entity vote. Thank you. I'm closing the debate. I'm calling the club presidents at 2/II for a very short meeting about holding a new session. It's a break by 3:30. [[PAUZA]] Please, it takes another MP to come so we can continue the session. Comrades and fellow Members, we move to the 8th item of the agenda: Ad. 8. Proposal for a law on preventing riots in sports competitions – Proposer: Ambassador Bakir Izetbegović (first reading)
ParlaMint-BA_2010-02-17-0.u32772	So, on behalf of the SDA MPs' Club, the Law on Sport in BiH in one part deals with certain issues in this area, which is regulated by the provisions of Article 58 of this Law, which stipulates that 'with the aim of preventing, combating violence and misbehaving of viewers on sports occasions, BiH is obliged to take the necessary measures, in accordance with the European Convention on Violence and Indecent behaviour of viewers on sports occasions, especially at football matches, and that a special law will determine the way and measures to prevent and combat violence and misbehave of viewers on sports occasions.' 78 So, we had this law before the House once, and this bill fell in relation to this earlier proposal to prevent riots in sports competitions in BiH, which was recently in the process, as much as respects the jurisdiction and authority of the state but also the jurisdiction and competence of lower levels of government in this area. The bill refers to international competitions and competitions within the BiH league, while the earlier law envisioned that all sports competitions in BiH apply. So this law is fully in line with BiH's laws, such as the Law on Sports, the Law on Violations as well as European legislation. All good solutions from neighbouring countries have been taken into account. Indeed, it has been well done, taken into account the coordination of obligations, participants, organisers, fans' clubs, directors' offices, competent police authorities, etc., as well as technical conditions, entrances, exits, evacuation, fences, fire protection, emergency assistance, lighting, space for bringing in a possible defector, etc. I suggest you support this law in your first reading.
ParlaMint-BA_2010-02-17-0.u32773	Thank you. There are no more applications for discussion. I'm closing the debate. Moving to the 9th point of the agenda: Ad. Nine. Commission Report to the College on an effort to reach agreement on the Proposal for a Law on Amendments and Supplements to the Customs Policy Act of BiH (first reading) You've received a match report. The college didn't achieve consent. Today we will vote in the second round on the bill's proposal in the first reading. It's the Customs Policy Act. We're going to point 10. Ad. Ten. Information on the state of play in connection with the untimely references of convicted persons to the maintenance of fines due to insufficient capacity of institutions to maintain prison sentences and security measures
ParlaMint-BA_2010-02-17-0.u32776	Mr. Chairman, colleagues and colleagues, ladies and gentlemen, you actually have three materials ahead of you. The starting material's out of 10. Six. In 2009, then, the material called the Final Information on the State of Untimely Reference of Convicted Persons or Persons to Suspension of the Sentence of 6. Ten. In 2009, and there is additional information from 28. 12. In 2009. As you can see, the constitutional commissions of both BiH Parliamentary Assembly homes at a joint session of both committees have raised this issue because at that time, there could be heard in the public that there are a certain or a large number of persons in BiH who have been convicted by law, but because of the lack of prison facilities, they are not located where they belong but simply at large, because courts working to enforce criminal sanctions, so the execution of prison sentences, cannot be instructed because there are no prison facilities. Then we started dealing with this question and we've been dealing with it for so long, you've seen from this as I said, since I was 10. Six. In 2009, when the first Information arrived until the end of practically 2009, and yet we did not obtain all the facts necessary for proper and complete consideration of this matter. From this information that we have accepted and in this final information there is a proposal for measures, we have accepted it, we have nothing against this proposal of measures, so in the information of 6. Ten. In 2009, but I think it will be necessary to continue working by the Constitutional Commission and this home on this issue and that we cannot stop at this. What's the problem, and what makes me think that's the case? 80 Therefore, we should generally be interested in a phenomenon called the execution or execution of a prison in BiH. The situation of prison facilities, given underage persons, adult persons, female persons, these are all segments and categories concerning the execution of criminal sanctions, and generally in this direction we need to have politics as a state, and in that context, this topic that has begun, therefore, is a subject called non-response of convicted persons to support prison sentences because there are no prison facilities. And now look, the Information doesn't answer this question that's been asked... nor could it give that question, because the Justice Department of 10. Six. In 2010, when it started with the first information, by 28. 12. In 2009, it was not adequately serviced by the entity ministries of justice and all other institutions in BiH in order to give us complete information. Information of 10. Six. In 2009, it is said "that according to figures from March 2009, delivered by municipal courts in the Federation of BiH, waiting for a start", watch out for "waiting for the start of a prison sentence is 1,202 convicts". When it's said 'it's on hold for the start of a prison sentence of 1,202 convicts', then in this number of 1,202 we don't know what the number of those who aren't referred to is because there's no place in prisons, because this is the total number of those for which the sentence is to be executed. We do not know what number of those under which the proceedings are delayed by the Court's decision, the case has not yet been taken into consideration, have not been called upon to maintain the sentence. It's unlikely that all 1,202 people are at large because there's no room in prisons. And we asked that this thing be fixed, because from the same information, but it's written differently, it says 'in the RS in 2008 there were no convicted persons in the system of enforcement of criminal sanctions of the RS waiting for the maintenance of the fines due to the inability of admission to criminal and correctional institutions for reasons of lack of accommodation capacity'. So it's not possible to conclude from this that there were no objects. The object was, but people are waiting for the execution of the sentence, but failure to execute the sentence doesn't come from lack of prison capacity. Two completely different methods have been applied in relation to the Federation and in relation to the RS, and we have asked that this thing be corrected. In that regard, when the Federation is concerned, it is not precise how many of these 1,202 sentenced persons are at large because there is no place in prison, and how many of those under which the proceedings are regularly imposed, are not called and that, in relation to those from the RS, it is said that the cases are conducted by the execution of criminal sanctions against persons from the RS and that the answer is also to the question of how many of those who are not referred to support and whether there are any of those who are not referred to for maintenance due to lack of prison capacity. The information is further concerned with the issue of building a psychiatric hospital, i.e. putting into service Sokoc's Psychiatric Hospital in order to carry out a security measure of mandatory psychiatric treatment, keeping in a closed facility, dealing with the issue of building a state prison and some prison facilities throughout BiH in order to improve the criminal sanctions system. The Justice Department has provided us with the 6th Information. Ten. In 2009, which is somewhat broader than this original information, where the relevant conclusions are proposed, but where this question is again not answered and an attempt to answer this question in the Information of 28. 12. In 2009. From this information, from which the same situation arises again, we have a response only to part of the Federation and we have no answer at all for RS. We have a concrete answer for the jurisdiction of the Municipal Court in Sarajevo, the Municipal Court in Zenica, the Municipal Court in Capljina, 81 of the Municipal Court in Zavidovici. I don't know if there are any more of these courts here that are numbered. And you now see simply to say: The Sarajevo Court of these 1,202 cases, which refers to it 408, simply wrote down all the cases here and wrote that it is being conducted; it says: 'In connection with your letter, which reminds you of the court's obligation to supply data on the number of convicted persons awaiting a prison sentence, we provide you with a list of cases of convicted persons and a list of cases of 408.' You can't see how many of those 408 are not sent because there's no place in prison. It is amazing to conclude that, for example, from this table, there are persons who have been convicted for up to 10 years, up to 5 years, 7 to 10 years, 4 to 15 years that have seven persons and are not in prison because they have no prison capacity. We don't know what's wrong with these faces. Are they on the loose because they're on the run, are they on the loose because they're inaccessible for some other reason or are they really on the loose because there's no place in prison? I can't believe that the person who was tried for murder, and there's one person here who was tried under the former Criminal Code, article 36, was a murder, for 12 years in prison, that he's out of jail because he doesn't have room in prison, I guess that person's out there because he's inaccessible. You can't see that from information. I'm saying the Justice Department isn't responsible for this. We couldn't wait any longer, we provided information to the House of Representatives to start dealing with these things, and I suggest, that I don't talk any further, that we support the findings and activities of the Ministry of Justice, that this activity continues and that this activity should be entrusted to the Constitutional Commission that of the Ministry of Justice, and that through the High Court and Prosecutor's Council, then other institutions, will give a final answer in one new information to the question: 'How many persons in BiH who are convicted and under which the execution procedure is conducted, which are not in prisons because there is no place in prisons?' I'm saying it's not 1,202 people or 408 people, and I tried to explain it to you and explain it here. Why is this important? This is important because of the overall criminal sanctions enforcement system and that we then begin to deal with those who do not supply this information to the Justice Department. It's inadmissible that the Justice Department won't get that information in a month. That's what it says about our system, what a system it's all about in the country. When the State Department doesn't deliver it, you can imagine what kind of things are happening. What about the Federation? Why is there no institution, why is there no nursing home in the Federation of BiH? Do we need so much time to wait in BiH in the Federation for this to happen? What about the state penitentiary? Why are these activities going on for a few years? There's no movement? I think that we should take this matter seriously and that this is the beginning of a debate on this topic at the BiH Parliamentary Assembly's House of Representatives and I propose that we adopt this information, these conclusions offered by the Ministry of Justice and adopt another conclusion: 'The Constitutional Commission is in charge of continuing the activities on this issue together with the BiH Ministry of Justice, and that in three months it submits one full piece of information to this topic again, with an emphasis on the number of persons who are at large because there is no room in prison." That's it, thank you.
ParlaMint-BA_2010-02-17-0.u32777	Thank you. Please put those suggestions in writing. Dear Ambassador Sadik Bahtić. Here you go. 82
ParlaMint-BA_2010-02-17-0.u32778	Thank you. It's good, and I'm glad we have this information today about the untimely failure to refer to convicted persons who have been convicted for lack of capacity, apparently. I will speak in a folk dictionary and what is a public secret and what ordinary citizens are saying. And there's one prison in Bihaq and what's probably done in Bihaq is done in other prisons. Everyone can go to jail and see that our prisons are full of what they say are petty thieves, hens, and those woodswives. Those who go there to get wood to warm themselves up, sentence him to prison, don't have to pay for a misdemeanor, go to jail. But those big fish, those capitals that are convicted of crime, millions of dollars, they're gone, you won't see any of them in prison. And if convicted, ping-pong balls, second-degrees, there-there-there, return, commission, disease, fictitious lying, he doesn't go to jail. Clear message: 'Steal! The more you steal, the more you will not answer, and if you are convicted, you will not go to prison." That's how people tell that story and, believe me, there are X cases that people are being taken to jail, and that every weekend it's at sea. That's what people are publicly writing to the High Judicial Council and there's nowhere to go, this-that. Unfortunately, nothing has changed yet. It's a poor country where there's a difference between individuals, and believe it or not. In particular, you have cases (I don't want colleagues, I have two doctors here by my side) to help us out a lot. They're running a fictitious treatment of these convicts, they don't see hospitals, and especially psychiatrists, neuropsychiatrics, even when they're against someone who's alienated by huge funds, millions, believe me, secretly goes there, they open a file that's mentally insane, that's crazy, so he's hiding it, afraid if he's convicted of not going to jail. There are cases like this, and today these things are done. That's what doctors from state hospitals do to us who have private practice. I don't think so, here's what this data shows is that there's no available capacity, but obviously there's a skill in doing it and it's going public as overbooked, and you know who's already lying there. Here, when you take this list, this is just Canton Sarajevo, the Sarajevo Municipal Court, I don't know it, you can see that there are people who have money and power and connections and have political patrons behind them, so they're not in prisons. I don't understand what counterpart Šefik Džaferović was saying, you have this other side that is still being kept quiet. I support the realization of these projects to get another 1,091 that place. However, my segment, the segment of my discussion, is that those big criminals who have been convicted that indeed not one real one has been laid down, all of them,...and here is a little under investigation so they let him go, no one has answered, and in particular, we had cases that toughened our criminals even escaped from prison. They know how to escape without anyone answering. Here, there's no prison manager in my Bihac for over a year. Someone's answering that there's no warden, you can do whatever anybody wants. When there's a warden, there's a system. All these things are done on purpose. No one can say that this is accidental, it's done on purpose so anyone can protect their... Here, my colleague Remzi says, "Why do they need a prison manager?" You're right. That's what it's called. It's called the prison manager's position. So my discussion was that it was good to move in this area. The aim should be to further strengthen the capacity that these technical ones mean in security, and we should also see some of those who are being treated fictitiously and have not seen hospitals. There are the most convicts in the world, and they've made a lot of money, which is what our people say. Thank you. 83
ParlaMint-BA_2010-02-17-0.u32779	Thank you. Dear Ambassador Azra Alajbegović. Here you go.
ParlaMint-BA_2010-02-17-0.u32780	Dear Chairman, colleagues and colleagues, I fully support the Justice Ministry's conclusions and Mr Džaferović's conclusion on the need for the Constitutional Commission to continue its activities and which are under way and concerning these issues. What I would like to talk about today and draw attention to is the launch of a procedure for exercising the right to an institution of probation, which is otherwise a prisoner who is otherwise present in all countries of high standards of law and justice. And at the same time, to say that it is really necessary to implement this project really quickly and to build a 340-seat state prison, because some members of the Human Rights Commission have been on different visits, in different prisons, so that prisons in Zenica, in Busovaca, in Foca and, I think, in Banja Luka. The situation in prisons we know what it is, according to a report by some European Commissions and, finally, BiH, by decision of the European Court of Human Rights back in 2004 and 2005, in some way, has received, let us call this, an instruction or a directive to establish a specialised medical institution in which the security measures of mandatory psychiatric treatment, treatment of addiction, as well as the treatment of mentally ill persons who have been found or found guilty of committing a criminal offence in an unaccountable state, especially since according to European standards and new European prison rules, such persons must absolutely be treated in a medical institution and not in prisons. Some of us, Mr Ivo Miro Jović and I, were in the so-called The forensic department of KPD Zenica and I can rightly say that the conditions in which they are and where they were located are 32 so-called. A forensic prisoner, who we visited in the forensic department of KPD Zenica, also shamed psychiatric institutions 100 years ago. The need to create and, in some ways, to open such an institution of forensic psychiatry is imperative but the process that started in 2004 and which has not been absolutely removed in one particular act until today, which means that construction works at Sokolac Psychiatric Hospital have not started, is in fact a real example of slowness as some, so to speak, are called, important, so imperative and so lifelike things happen unforgivably slowly for a whole series of reasons. I would say with the right that the essence is, in fact, in the absence of the will of those who are active participants in this process. To simplify, then, the first problem was who would be the official founder of forensic psychiatry, whether it would be the BiH Ministry of Justice or it would be the Ministry of Justice of the Republic of Slovenia, and then this huge coordination that was imposed because of the complexity of the arrangement, first of all, the institutional arrangement of the state has led us to a situation today, which is 17 February 2010, we do not have the beginning of the construction of the 'Forensic Psychology Department on Sokoc', regardless of what funds we have donated to that purpose by the Swiss Confederation. All deadlines for all the activities of all participants and actors in this very complex process, which I am now not going to read or convince from this information, the first one we got 10. Six. In 2009, and these others we got in the 28th. 12. In 2009, they actually put me in some way in doubt and dilemma that 84 is a true intention, a true intention to create such a modern medical forensic center for psychiatric cases that at a time reduced accountability or inaccountability committed a criminal act. This may now be the case when speaking from the point of view of the parliamentary bench may seem irrelevant, perhaps irrelevant, perhaps at this moment after lunch and excessively, but as someone actively participating in the process of psychiatric skills and participating in the care of people who, at a time of unaccountability or reduced inaccountability, committed crimes, on the one hand, the fate of those perpetrators, these psychiatric patients, the fate of their relatives, who in some way, are experiencing a real secondary trauma to what their member did on the one hand, on the other hand, to the knowledge that in their environment, in their family, have a psychiatric patient, in fact, somehow seems to be outside our sphere of interest. In EU countries, forensic psychiatry comes first. Why? Because psychiatric patients, means perpetrators of criminal acts that have been reduced, protected in a certain way and, on the other hand, in these institutions go through the treatment process, the process of resociation, the process of rehabilitation, where the essence of the whole treatment is in such an institution that one such patient is being treated and, on the other hand, to recognise the possibility of a repeated situation in which he has committed a previous criminal offence by which a mandatory treatment measure has been imposed and that, in some way, such a situation, a new situation, a new crime, is being prevented. I really think it is unforgivable that the process lasts for six years, that we have not yet buried the foundation of this hospital on Sokoc, and I personally believe that the founder of that institution must absolutely be the BiH Ministry of Justice for a number of reasons, especially since I believe that this institution will require a very specialised and very closely focused professional and professional staff. I am not sure that BiH is having such a fit at the moment because we forensic psychiatry as a subspecies do not have in our programmes neither the Federal Ministry of Health nor the Ministry of Health of the Republic of Slovenia, and I believe that this is also an opportunity to draw attention today to the needs of education of such staff. For this reason, I believe that BiH's territory would actually be a good base for recruiting such a staff, since when a good forensic psychiatrist type is... in the whole region, not just in BiH.
ParlaMint-BA_2010-02-17-0.u32781	Thank you. The second vice-president, Mr. Beriz Belkić. Here you go.
ParlaMint-BA_2010-02-17-0.u32782	Support and recognition of these constitutional commissions of perseverance and obvious work on this issue. And it's good that more commissions are as interested as this human rights commission of ours, which, as far as I know, has been visiting these institutions from another aspect by looking at things. I'd just like two or three things to explain to me. Mr. Džaferović, so you said that these conclusions in the final information of October, yes, you supported, and that opinion was 85 you only suggested that we accept the Information, I assume you mean that these conclusions go as an integral part.
ParlaMint-BA_2010-02-17-0.u32783	microphone not enabled
ParlaMint-BA_2010-02-17-0.u32784	Okay, that's one thing. And the other thing, in fact, is two questions for you, Mr. Assistant. Does that mean we're the money, when it comes to building a state prison, I won't say spent, we didn't get, she announced funds? Which is why, why, I don't know. And the second question, I saw in these materials, so the Department of Justice passed on to us what was collected and I see the report from the Sarajevo Municipal Court. They sent people 400 names. Name and last name, no further generalies, years of birth, father's name, etc. And you'll see, I don't know what regular number you have Sadik Ahmetović, the minister, and he's not. I don't know if there's any right to do this kind of information in public. Is that, without complete data, a name, a last name, a year of birth? We only have a name and a last name. Look at 400 names. At least 20, 30 names have double, triple names and people will be deluded. Here, we happened to see a denominator and a last name. Thank you.
ParlaMint-BA_2010-02-17-0.u32785	Here, Mr. Assistant, just hold on a second. Dear Representative Šefik Džaferović will first give an answer, the chairman of the Constitutional Legal Commission.
ParlaMint-BA_2010-02-17-0.u32786	Well, I'll do the assistant, so I'll do it, if that's all right.
ParlaMint-BA_2010-02-17-0.u32787	Assistant Minister of Justice, Mr. Bisić.
ParlaMint-BA_2010-02-17-0.u32788	First, I would like to welcome the chairman and vice-president, MPs, guests and representatives of the Council of Ministers. First of all, I would just say about this Sokolac Psychiatric clinic that since June 2008, the Council of Ministers has been concluded that the BiH Ministry of Justice has been designated as a co-ordination body for the establishment of an accommodation and treatment costs agreement at the Sokolac Psychiatric Clinic. So, by following that conclusion, we've been consulting and meeting for a year, to put it this way. We thus came, in April 2009, to the final text of this agreement. The text provides for government presidents, the Council of Ministers to sign that agreement and it is signed and to be published in official votes at the state level, entity level and Brcko District. So this agreement was adopted, signed and published. Officials in November 2009 published in all official messengers, both in Brcko District, and in the Federation of BiH, RS, and at BiH level. I can say that there is a unit for the implementation of this project formed by the Council of Ministers, that 86 is a single facility that has 7,000 m2, which was previously intended to be a new forensic facility, so that it will be reconstructed and adapted to the facility why the Swiss Confederation government has singled out 2,850,000 Swiss francs. In the meantime, we received information from the Coordinator of the Implementation Unit that the Project of Adaptation and Reconstruction has passed and the revision, that an international tender has been launched, that the deadline of 40 days has expired 18. 12. In 2009, a commission where state and entity representatives were formed means there are eight bidders. And they pointed out to us in this information that they expect, given... the whole procedure and the appeal deadlines, that at the end of February, that, in early March, they will be selected the final contractor and that in early March this year they will be able to begin both adaptation and reconstruction. In the tender, it was 10 months to do all this, but the main co-ordinator, Mr. EćimovićSlobodan said the performers, who applied to the tender, stated in their applications that they could do it in six months. If that were to happen, perhaps already in October, November, meaning this year, we would have an open modern forensic facility for the whole of BiH and that institution would benefit all BiH courts and then I think BiH would permanently solve the problem of housing forensic patients in BiH. I think this is good information, by the way. As far as the state prison is concerned, I can point out that within the Ministry of Justice, a special organisational unit dealing with the construction of a state prison was formed and that only on 19 November 2009 the European Development Bank approved 19.1m euros for the construction of a state prison, that it was also ready to bear 2m euros in interest. The Dutch government, which intended to participate as a donor, is ready to, through the CARDS programme, via the IPA programme, apologize for 5m euros, which means other donors should give 7m euros and BiH 7m euros. The European Development Bank has calculated that the state prison's final price should be 39,300,000 euros. I want to get to know you that the original project was made up of former international representatives of the construction and architectural profession for the construction of the state prison. However, when the European Development Bank was involved, it asked its experts to review it and make comments and, in fact, its experts made such a decision that they have now created an entirely new internal organisation of the future state prison. And that's why the project, to put it that way, was time late for a year. And only by the time of half of 2010, should I say these experts of construction and architectural profession finally deliver the project to the BiH Ministry of Justice so that it can then go to preparations for the international tender. I mean, these are the new elements for the state prison. And here I can, if you want, maybe say that we got some new information for the Federation, or Sarajevo: that originally that number was 1,202 persons... so at the end of October we had information from the Federal Justice Ministry that now it's 1,033, and now that we got that number in January that number is 996. We asked how many people the courts had delayed the execution of the fine: the number would be 84, all of which meant 84, and 840 people, so now it would turn out, are currently waiting for the punishment in the Federation for lack of prison capacity. Only Sarajevo has now reduced its number and, instead of 408 currently in Sarajevo, 380 people are now waiting for detention, and 40 people have been suspended by the court. We have, we have, to put it this way, data from all 28 courts, as many as there are, municipal at Federation level, but there's a minister who felt that this 87 information should now go to Parliament that we may not be supplementing right now, so that there might be no confusion with MPs with this new data. So, in the meantime, we got some data. I'm thanking you.
ParlaMint-BA_2010-02-17-0.u32789	Thank you. Dear Ambassador Šefik Džaferović, replica. Here you go.
ParlaMint-BA_2010-02-17-0.u32790	It's not just a replica, it's an answer to the question, however you like. I mean, he asked me the vice president, Mr. Belkić, for some things. So we... this three information we consider to be one, so three memos that's one information. We've been texting. At one session: let's see what we're going to do; on another: let's see; on the third; when we get the third material, we see what we get and say - let's go to Parliament, we can't wait any longer, so we'll see in Parliament, this is the process, I think. And we have accepted the information, it says here in the report of the Constitutional Legal Commission and, of course, we have accepted five of these conclusions that are written here and I think there is no interference that Parliament supports them, because this is an integral part of the information. But the job isn't done. Sam, the assistant secretary of the pay phone, said the job wasn't finished. The data he presented today is saying something different than what we have in this information. And that's why I wrote one conclusion, you'll get it now. I think this thing in BiH, this is an opportunity to take this seriously and deal with this. And my proposal is heading towards 'indemnity of the BiH Council of Ministers to draw up one piece of information on the state of detention, security or security measures and prudential measures in BiH'. So prison: for those aged where prison is said; for those who are sick: safety measures; and for minors: educational and correctional measures. So, a complete, complete information for the situation in BiH, with a special emphasis on the state of enforcement institutions from this area in BiH, measures taken to improve the situation and plans for the future and with a special emphasis on non-maintainment people just because there is no room in institutions for maintenance. Then we'd know where we are and what time it is and then we'd have complete, complete information and deal with it that way. Because I'm listening now, there's this list here, it says (I don't want to defend anyone, I just want to have as much objective a condition as possible) not doing this, so this isn't a state of order, I'm unhappy with the state. We accept the information, but the situation is catastrophic, I mean, we can't be satisfied with this condition. I want to tell you exactly, in the number of 380, how much is now related to Sarajevo, it's not 408 but 380, right, how long is it for people who are waiting for execution because they've filed a motion to postpone the execution? The assistant minister said it was 84 men out of those 380. Eh, these 300, let's see, how many are there because a BOLO was issued after them, so the police are looking for them? How many of them where the files have just been received and we've been given a report that there's a file, hasn't even been invited to support the sentence? How many of them are in that procedure that has nothing to do with whether there's room or no place in prison? And how many are accurate that they've matured on all grounds to go to jail, and there's no place in prison? That's what I'm interested in, when it comes to that number, we have to get to it. We haven't come, Mustafa, to that number 88 at this stage. Once we know that, then we'll be able to talk more closely. And this proposal suggests a conclusion. Thank you.
ParlaMint-BA_2010-02-17-0.u32791	Thank you. We don't have any more logs. We're closing the agenda. Moving to point 11. Ad. 11. Proposal for a conclusion on the establishment of the Interim Commission to prepare the draft legislation on the census, households and housing in BiH 2011. The initiative of honourable MP Branko Dokić was adopted at the follow-up of the 71st session of the House held on 10th. 2. with the proposal to submit a proposal for a conclusion to be made by the House. Ambassador Branko Dokić delivered the conclusion on 16. 2. The extended Dom College suggested that the Interim Commission be named Halid Genjac, Azra Hadžiahmetović, Milica Marković, Mirjana Malić, Velimir Jukić, Martin Raguž, Mirko Okolić, Branko Dokić, Ljiljana Milašin, Sefer Halilović, Rifat Dolić, Jerko Ivanković and Momčilo Novaković. Here, I'm opening a debate. Here you go. Dear Ambassador Momčilo Novaković. Here you go.
ParlaMint-BA_2010-02-17-0.u32793	Thank you, Mr. Chairman. I am, thinking about how this commission is working without being a mere job, which means that we are not meeting for a month to send a proposal here after a month that will not get a majority, go with one amendment or, however you will, in conclusion, we can call it that, but the essence is my intention to propose a change, meaning Article 4 of this conclusion – that all decisions in this commission are made by the majority, meaning of 22 votes that involve the entity majority, with the fact that, of course, every representative of the political party represents as many votes as the number of his party MPs in the House of Representatives. In other words, (?) In Parliament. 89 (good), in the House of Representatives, I speak, in other words, I am, when you look at this list, in the proposal for a conclusion below regular number 3. All of these parties have 18, together 18 MPs. And so they don't have the capacity of all, so nine of them vote for some law don't have the capacity to adopt the law here in Parliament, and I can vote, hypothetically in this commission can be for. I also felt it was not logical to conclude, that is, that the proposal is made by consensus of all, because it makes it practically difficult to come to any proposal at all, because one of these 13 can, for various reasons, not support the proposal and that we have no proposal, we have a 30-day job again. Here, for these reasons, I will read this amendment. So "All decisions in this commission are made by a majority of 22 votes, which includes the entity majority." So this isn't written, I didn't write this by mistake. Every political party representative has as many votes as the party has MPs in the House of Representatives. Thank you.
ParlaMint-BA_2010-02-17-0.u32795	Thank you. Dear Member Azra Hadžiahmetović. Here you go.
ParlaMint-BA_2010-02-17-0.u32796	Thank you, Chairman. Here, I will continue on the content, i.e. try to add and contribute to the part to which Mr. Novaković referred, precisely for the reasons mentioned by his colleague Novaković. I appreciate that the promoter, or the initiator of one of these decisions, of the proposal, is he, who is before us, really intended for us to go in the direction of one solution. And I want to believe that Article 4 in this formulation really was one slip. Because otherwise, if I were to read only this Article 4, then you'd think that someone who was preparing this decision would not prepare this committee for any proposal. So, just for these same reasons, I have referred to Article 4, and I suggest that, perhaps, we could also accept what my colleague Novaković has suggested: that we have delegated this commission, or this body to the legislative authority, so that we have entities, we have both a majority and a parliamentary one and a half, but since that is not the case, this commission should prepare, or in collaboration with the competent institutions, to allow the proposal to come before this Parliament. I propose the correction of Article 4 in the position (1): 'All decisions in this committee shall be made by the majority present, or the conclusion which has already been distributed in Parliament.' Thank you.
ParlaMint-BA_2010-02-17-0.u32797	Dear Ambassador Branko Dokić. Here you go. 90
ParlaMint-BA_2010-02-17-0.u32798	Mr. Chairman, I have no objection to something modifying this article, Article 4. It would be really hard to make all decisions by consensus. Someone who knows what reason to be against, well, as a colleague of Azra says, we can never get to the final proposal. I think there's a solution somewhere between this two that's been suggested. This from counterpart Novaković, I think it's too complicated for a commission. And I would like to strengthen the degree of consent here precisely for the reasons Momo stated: that if we already have a bill that is very likely to pass in Parliament. And here, my modification of this, as my colleague Azra said, would be two-thirds of those present. It means he's passing what two-thirds were present. That's already what I mean by solid and enough guarantees. I called back about something else. Since this is... ad hoc commission and since her job should be completed within a month, I suggest there is no compensation for working on this ad hoc commission.
ParlaMint-BA_2010-02-17-0.u32799	Dear Ambassador Mirko Okolić. Here you go.
ParlaMint-BA_2010-02-17-0.u32800	Thank you, Mr. Chairman. Well, look, this proposal is precisely because it couldn't agree on the drafting of this law and it's trying on the basis of the Interim Commission to draft a census bill. Now, if we treat this like this, like this one amendment, which reads "All decisions in this committee will be made by the majority of the votes of those present and voting," what has happened here in Parliament can happen. There it is revoted, a decision is made on the commission that this and that law are going into procedure, and there is no congregation majority here. It's a waste of time, and bad work has been done. I still think that it is necessary to make sure that he agrees with the consensus to the extent that a critical mass is acquired for the adoption of that law, I guess that's our goal. Our goal is to make some kind of law and have a critical mass so that we can adopt it. If our goal is to bring it to this committee and to vote on this commission and say, "e, this is the law -- and it can't go through here, it's not, in my opinion, at all, I don't think it's what Mr. Dokić intended, nor is it something that would be practical. That is why I am closer to the variations that wherever possible, it is done by consensus, that at least try to draw up some formulation that this commission can vote in this way and adopt a proposal for this law to be in that capacity to have a parliamentary, or, therefore, parliamentary majority, i.e., a passing here in the majority. Now, it's a little hard to formulate, so maybe it's best that we keep this consensually, because it's not possible, if on this committee, let's say, let's not be two representatives from these big parties, these little parties bring some kind of proposal, clap hands, that's the law that should go to Parliament, here when it comes, there's no idea that it can pass. It's a problem we'll face for sure if we don't take it seriously. 91 thank you.
ParlaMint-BA_2010-02-17-0.u32801	Replica, Ambassador Azra Hadžiahmetović. Here you go.
ParlaMint-BA_2010-02-17-0.u32802	Well, the general discussion of Mr. Okolić also resembles me and suggests more of a non-confidential conclusion. The first three members, as Mr Novaković spoke of, the rest of them under number 3, numbering 17 MPs in this House, as counted by Mr Novaković, are perfectly well aware that they can make a golden proposal on that commission, but unless there is a parliamentary majority that he will not pass. So I don't know where that approach came from and why this story is so much about one question if you really want to solve the problem, go meet the problem. All those who, of course, work on this commission and make any, possibly, decisions written here in the plural are perfectly aware that this law will come here in parliamentary procedure. Thank you.
ParlaMint-BA_2010-02-17-0.u32803	Thank you. Dear Ambassador Mirko Okolić, replica. Here you go.
ParlaMint-BA_2010-02-17-0.u32804	The replica of Mrs. Azra. I don't know how, you didn't seem to listen well or you didn't want to hear it.
ParlaMint-BA_2010-02-17-0.u32805	No microphone turned on
ParlaMint-BA_2010-02-17-0.u32806	Well, you didn't listen carefully, you wouldn't interpret me as you think because I just said, looking at these amendments that have just arrived and are likely to be discussed and put to the vote, and I've read it to you, so now listen again. Because consistently, and I quote this amendment: "All decisions on this committee will be made by the majority of the votes of all those present and voting." And I'm saying, and I said this amendment isn't good, and now you're telling me something here as I said the opposite. I am just leaving this point of view that it is necessary to create a climate on this committee that I can pass a bill of law as it can go here in Parliament. It means he has a critical mass to pass in this House. And, Mrs Azra, I repeat, it is not worth the law of any of the committee to vote if such a formula comes to the vote of members of the commission and that such a law comes here to Parliament and that there is no, again, critical mass to pass that law. That's something to take care of. I have not said anything different but simply that it is not a good, let's say, such an amendment, or anyone who advocates this, I think that it is wrong and that we should find a solution that 92 in this committee will not be overvoted... or someone who will not be voted in such a way that, upon coming to Parliament, there is not enough votes to adopt this proposal. And that's why I said it was important to take care of it, and I told you finely that when two representatives of the two parties that are the biggest don't come, the rest of them can vote on this committee and send any proposal to this parliamentary procedure and they won't get most of it, or any support from this Parliament. This is what needs to be taken care of and I am standing on the stand, Mr. Novaković said so also Mr. Dokić and someone else that we need to find that formula. If he can't do it differently, then consensus is what's most important.
ParlaMint-BA_2010-02-17-0.u32807	Thank you. Replica, Honourable Ambassador Momčilo Novaković. Here you go. Hold on, hold on, hold on.
ParlaMint-BA_2010-02-17-0.u32808	I called in when there were no reports of discussion, because I thought we were finishing up, so I wanted the chairman to invite the three of us who have conclusions about this and get it straight and get it over with. But since some colleagues reported for the discussion in the meantime, then my proposal doesn't make any sense. So, I thought there'd be no more discussion so we could just sit down and agree on a proposal that would be acceptable to these three conclusions that we have so far in the process.
ParlaMint-BA_2010-02-17-0.u32809	Thank you. But I have to let the others come forward, maybe they'll make a fourth proposal, so there'll be four for the alignment. Dear Ambassador Adem Huskić, replica. Here you go.
ParlaMint-BA_2010-02-17-0.u32810	I'll replicate. Here you go, colleague Džaferović, were you going to say something?
ParlaMint-BA_2010-02-17-0.u32811	Please let us finish this item on the agenda, after that is all.
ParlaMint-BA_2010-02-17-0.u32812	It seemed as if Mr. Džaferović had something to say. Did you want to say something? I'm going to replicate my fellow Okolić, I don't think there's any reason to be nervous, and I think that colleague Hadžiahmetović has been very well diagnosed with the matter. So this is about whether there's trust or not. And, if it does not exist, and it seems that fellow Okolić does not think there is trust, or trusts some political parties, then it cannot provide any conclusion. So I don't think there's any need to make any precedent in relation to the previous conclusions, all those who sit there know, based on who 93 votes for, can be adopted or can't and can't not pretend naive, there's no need for us to do something special here.
ParlaMint-BA_2010-02-17-0.u32813	Thank you. Dear Ambassador Bajazit Jašarević. Here you go.
ParlaMint-BA_2010-02-17-0.u32814	Dear Mr. Chairman, honourable MPs, I think the attempt by Mr. Novaković to make this conclusion a more permissive simple condition without which it cannot be done, because it is obvious that nothing can be decided by consensus in the preparation of a document, since it is certainly passing through a complex parliamentary procedure. The proposal to vote by a supra-almost majority is the usual proposal, and Professor Dokić has made one proposal that in that mathematical there, the two-thirds variant would bring the likelihood of passing in parliament to that entity vote. So, you really should think about the half-dozen majority or the two-thirds majority where I think it's good to put it here, no matter how popular it can be, and most of it being the voice of each of the constituent peoples. Because that's almost understood, but it would be good if the representatives of each nation gave at least one vote for adopted solutions. So, I'm closer to this variant with a two-thirds majority, although it's... it's really asking this commission for a higher level of concentration and reconciliation, but that voices include the votes of each of the people's representatives. In what way, here is the promoter, Professor Dokić, I ask: Would it be good if in another position of that member it stands... that this commission will check the solution of whether there is... a sufficient entity majority for the adopted solution?' This means that it would not limit the adoption of the text, but would oblige it to make an effort to check whether the proposed solution will pass in Parliament. Finally, I would say this: it is very important that this commission has in mind the debate we had in this house, it is very important that most MPs have gained the impression that an agreement can be reached. But it is important that instead of... repeating this great story, people who have taken great responsibility in this commission force themselves to agree as long as respect for the demands of each of the constituent people who in this debate have shown that they do not dispute standards, European standards about it, nor UN standards, but because of the feeling of different positions of the people demand that something that can be written this time is not common or that it will not be common in the future. To conclude, therefore, I am close to the proposal to be two-thirds of the votes of this commission, with the votes of each of the constituent people, and that the task, one of the tasks of this commission, and to verify the verifiable solution once again and for this majority, is a sufficient entity majority in Parliament. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-BA_2010-02-17-0.u32815	Thank you. Dear Ambassador Selim Bešlagić. Here you go. 94
ParlaMint-BA_2010-02-17-0.u32816	Let me just say a few words. I know that this conclusion has been adopted, I would say unanimously in Parliament, which says there is a will to pass this law. The other thing, I know it's also agreed to do this within 30 days. I mean, this is a serious task, and I don't think any of the parties are going to be left out of this meeting. And I think your proposal, or Mr. Novaković's proposal, is a good one, and here I'm saying there are perhaps four proposals to be found before the vote: that one proposal is given, and that we respect everything that will contribute to this law, when it comes to this Parliament, has one guarantee that it will be adopted. And in that sense, we support you agreeing on that conclusion and trying to get a law here within 30 days that will satisfy what we all unanimously support. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-BA_2010-02-17-0.u32817	Thank you. I urge the three amendments to try to agree until the start of the vote. If this is not done, we will vote on three amendments, and after that, if no amendment is accepted, on Professor Dokić's proposal for a conclusion. That's the order we're going to work on. Moving to point 12. Ad. 12. Selection of three members of the Management Board of the High Education Development Agency and quality assurance At the 62nd session, I appointed members of the Interim Joint Commission of both homes to conduct procedures for the selection of three members of the Management Board of this agency for a period of one year. We have a temporary commission of 22. 1. submitted a proposal for a single ranking of three candidates: 1. Aida Abadzic-Abadžić-Hodžić, 2. Vlado Majstorović, 3. Miljan Popić. At the 71st House session, a conclusion has been adopted that has delayed the statement on this point until this commission delivers biographies of candidates who meet the conditions set out in the competition. The House of Representatives will be declared individually on each candidate, not on a single list. Ten. 2. In 2010, you received the requested biographies. We, in accordance with Article 51(2) of the Framework Law on Higher Education in BiH, appoint three members for a period of one year. I'm opening a debate. There are no reports. I'm closing the debate. 95 We move to point 13. Ad. 13. Giving consent to ratification: (a) The Treaty between Bosnia and Herzegovina and the Republic of Slovenia on Legal Assistance in Civil and Criminal Matters, (b) the Protocol between the Council of Ministers of BiH and the Government of the Kingdom of Saudi Arabia on the Exchange of Property - Lands for the Construction of Diplomatic Representatives in Sarajevo and Riyadh
