ParlaMint-BA_2010-05-25-0.u35023	Ladies and gentlemen of the House of Representatives, honored guests, I am opening the 78th session of the Parliamentary House of Bosnia and Herzegovina. In addition to the representatives, our regular guests were invited: the chairman and members of the BiH presidency, the chairman and members of the BiH Council of Ministers, representatives of OHR, the OSCE and other international organisations in BiH who regularly monitor the work of our home, representatives of certain NGOs. At the meeting, we invited representatives of the Management Board of the Export-Credit Agency of BiH, the Agency for the Protection of Personal Data BiH and the State Agency for Investigation and Protection to discuss the report on the work of those institutions. I welcome all present representatives and guests. I also welcome representatives of public information funds. According to the service records, I'd like to conclude that there are 29 representatives present at the session. There are justly no honourable representatives: Selim Bešlagić, Nermina Zaimović-Uzunović-Uzunović, Azra Hadžiahmetović and Martin Raguž. The delays were announced by distinguished representatives Sefer Halilović and Jerko Ivanković. I find the session has a quorum for work and decision-making. As part of the previous questions, I would like to inform you of the following. Representative Husein Nanić is 13. 5. In 2010, he delivered the Declaration of Conviction of Mass Infringement of Human Rights in the Cazin region of 1950 and Crimes committed by the relevant authorities of Yugoslavia, FNRJ, and 24. 5. In 2010, he proposed that the Declaration be renamed Resolution. In accordance with Article 148(2) of the Rules of Procedure, the House should be made known, in the light of the previous questions, whether the resolution will be addressed to the relevant committee. If the House adopts this proposal, the resolution will be addressed to the committee responsible, otherwise it will be included in today's session agenda. I would like to put a vote on a proposal to refer the resolution to the committee responsible. Please prepare. Vote now! With 28 votes "yes", one "abstained" vote, with no "against" votes and enough entity majority, I find that the dom has decided to refer the resolution to the competent commission. 2 As regards changes to the agenda, I want to know that we added item 4. A request from the Interim Commission for the Preparation of the Bill on Census, Households and Stans in BiH in 2011 to consider the Proposal for a Law on Census, Households and Apartments in BiH by a hasty procedure, in accordance with Article 127. Rules of Procedure and Point 5. A request from the SDA's representative to consider the proposal for a law supplementing the Law on Service in the Armed Forces of BiH under a shortened procedure, in accordance with Article 126 of the Treaty on the Functioning of the European Union. Rules of Procedure. We have completed item 10 with the Joint Commission on Defence and Security Report on the work of the Intelligence and Security Agency, which is negative, item 11 with the Joint Defence and Security Commission Report, which is also negative and point 28.under d) of the European Charter on Regional and Minority Languages, Strasbourg, 5. 11. In 1992. We have removed item 18 from the agenda. Information on the state of security in BiH in 2009 because the responsible Joint Defence and Security Committee has informed us that it has not discussed the information listed, since it has been informed that the existing information has been supplemented with additional elements that are not listed in it. For this reason, this commission has not delivered an opinion on the Information. I'm opening a debate on the proposed agenda. Dear Representative Denis Bećirović.
ParlaMint-BA_2010-05-25-0.u35024	Honored Chairmans, colleagues and colleagues, distinguished guests and media representatives! In fact, you know that we of the SDP Club, 30 days ago, have asked that today, May 25, on the day of the Great Tragedy in Tuzla, we do not hold a session on this very day. After that, on 12 May, at the last session, we publicly invited everyone present here not to hold today's Parliament's session on this day. But of all these proposals, unfortunately nothing seems to be appreciated. That is why, I say, we at the SDP Club, and especially my colleague Bešlagić and I who come from Tuzla, agreed that Selim Bešlagić should be in Tuzla today and that I should come here for a session of Parliament and say a few words about it. If only one child were killed anywhere in BiH on today, it would be a terrible fact. And then what to say to the fact that on today in our country of BiH, 71 lives, 71 young lives, were killed in the town of Tuzli. Over 150 civilians were victims, so they were wounded. Young people of all nationalities were killed and the average was 24 years from those who were killed. I don't think today's right for us to hold a session on this day. That's why I'm proposing once again, and today on May 25th, here's to not repeating everything I said earlier, to interrupt this session, to postpone it for any other day, that's what I asked for on May 12th or before May 25th or after May 25th. And if there was a dilemma between the marking of the massacre at the Tuzlane Gate and any party convention in this country, there is no dilemma that, first of all, there is a great tragedy that happened at the Tuzlane Gate. That's why I suggest once again to the College that you put on the vote to terminate this session today in respect of the victims. 3
ParlaMint-BA_2010-05-25-0.u35025	Thank you. No more reports. For the sake of stenograms and for the sake of correctness, I would like to inform you that the College of the House does not determine the calendar of the work of the meeting of this House, but the College in the extended composition. I would like to remind you so much that you have been informed of the position of the Extended College regarding your proposal that the session does not take place today. Respecting all the reasons that you have stated for not holding today's session, I, and the College, am obliged to respect the positions of the Colleges in an extended composition. Even before this session began, we had a College in an extended composition that did not have such initiatives. So we had a chance at the College in an extended composition to identify ourselves on this issue. For the sake of correctness, I'm going to have your motion to stop the session from giving a statement to this home. I ask the House to prepare itself for a statement on this proposal. Vote now! _________(?) [[no microphone turned on]] Excuse me, who was looking for you?
ParlaMint-BA_2010-05-25-0.u35027	No microphone turned on
ParlaMint-BA_2010-05-25-0.u35028	Dear Representative Husein Nanić demands a repeat vote. Please prepare to vote again. Vote now! 15 votes "for", 10 "against", one "abstained". We don't have an entity majority.
ParlaMint-BA_2010-05-25-0.u35029	No microphone turned on
ParlaMint-BA_2010-05-25-0.u35030	At the request of a representative of the SNSD Club, five minutes break. [[PAUZA]] Ladies and gentlemen of the Parliament, honored guests, please take your seats. Does the president of the SNSD Club want to explain the reasons for the break? 4
ParlaMint-BA_2010-05-25-0.u35032	Thank you, Mr. Chairman. Here, we discussed this sudden situation at the break at the SNSD Club and in the consultations together with the other MPs. Mr. Chairman, you yourself have confirmed that you could not put this to a vote and that it is commercially impossible, given that you yourself said the clear jurisdiction of the Expansive College when it comes to the calendar of the holding of Parliament's sessions, so that this could not be found at all in the vote. Since it is quite clear what this is about, the SNSD MPs' club has on several occasions in this House said that everything that happened with the victims and with all due respect that there should not be any politicisation and use of the day-to-day policy in the way that some do, and we have avoided it. However, if this House wants to be any easier, we cannot prevent it. Since 58 people were killed in a beastly way today in Bradina, it's ugly to talk about numbers, but as we speak, the most monstrous way is killed. Also, it's people there, but for someone, he probably doesn't think it's worth mentioning, or it's not enough number. We felt that the marking of such events, given that the state came out of a fierce war yesterday and that every day someone died somewhere, with all due respect, and that it would be impossible to apply this way as suggested by this Parliament, because I don't suppose any day would have found a working day. Here, we were here the other day when there was a day of memories of 12 babies in Banja Luka, but we didn't burden the commission or the working bodies of this Parliament with that. Since someone wants all this to die in the day-to-day political mud, that's how we don't go along. You can't put this on the Rules of Procedure again, we don't want to participate. Let us know when you're ready to work and honor the calendar of the extended college. We will not take part beyond that calendar and in this way in the work of this session. And obviously, since you insist on practice and introduce the practice that everyone goes to their own today, not to say the strategy, so be it. We don't want any of us here to humiliate us... nor is it possible that only we from the SNSD can prevent a farce in the state parliament that some want, desire, work hard on it and use it for the needs of their group, group, party or whatever. We've done everything we can to prevent it from trying to work properly here, but obviously it's not working. You let us know when you resume the session in accordance with the Rules of Procedure.
ParlaMint-BA_2010-05-25-0.u35033	Thank you. I'm taking a half-hour break and I'm calling a session of the Colleges in an extended composition right now. [[PAUZA]] Ladies and gentlemen of the Parliament, please take your seats. At this little longer stop, a session of the Colleges was held in an extended composition and a narrow college of the House. The college in the extended composition failed to reach a solution, i.e. it did not reach a consensus on the issue in the College and so here there is no proposal from the College in the extended composition. Afterwards, the College, in close line, considered the matter of interpreting the Rules of Procedure on this issue, 5 questions whether this proposal should be put on the House's statement at all or not: we did not reach a consensus on whether this should be put to the plea or not. In such cases, the disputed question is addressed to the House. I will now put on a statement of the proposal whether the House is at all declaring itself on the proposal of a respected representative, Denis Bećirović. Depending on the results of that vote, then depending on the results of that vote, we will move on. So, question to dom: Shall we approach the statement on the proposal of distinguished representative Denis Bećirović? Please prepare yourselves. Vote now! 17 votes "yes", nine "against", three "abstained", an insufficient entity majority. We're going to a statement in the second round on the same proposal.
ParlaMint-BA_2010-05-25-0.u35035	Before a 10-minute break.
ParlaMint-BA_2010-05-25-0.u35036	Ten minutes break at the SNSD Club's request. [[PAUZA]] We keep working. The word has a distinguished representative, Drago Kalabić.
ParlaMint-BA_2010-05-25-0.u35038	I apologize to my colleagues on these breaks. Believe me, we certainly didn't produce this situation. It is our request to the professional service that (as many things have been discussed in this country, and these tasters, probably with too much use) at Mr. Jovičić to check why he is not working because he voted and on the display do not stay right, so, in order not to ask for repetition, here in the second round, we will take care of the state above. Thank you.
ParlaMint-BA_2010-05-25-0.u35039	Thank you. We approach the plea in the second round. Please prepare.
ParlaMint-BA_2010-05-25-0.u35040	Ten minutes break.
ParlaMint-BA_2010-05-25-0.u35041	At the request of the president of the SDA Club, ten minutes' break. 6 [[PAUZA]] Ladies and gentlemen of the Parliament, we continue to work. Does the club president want to explain the reasons for the break? He doesn't want to. So we approach the plea in the second round. Please prepare. Vote now! 17 votes "for", 13 "against", one "abstained".
ParlaMint-BA_2010-05-25-0.u35043	No microphone turned on
ParlaMint-BA_2010-05-25-0.u35044	Is it repetition?
ParlaMint-BA_2010-05-25-0.u35045	No microphone turned on
ParlaMint-BA_2010-05-25-0.u35046	17 votes "yes", 13 "against", one "abstained", and I agree that the House has declared itself to approach a statement on the proposal of honourable representative Denis Bećirović.
ParlaMint-BA_2010-05-25-0.u35047	... Obviously it's a failure,...it doesn't have to repeat the vote, it's obviously a failure,... [[no microphone turned on]] 10 MPs from the RS were "against" nine, so here one vote is likely to be verified in favour...
ParlaMint-BA_2010-05-25-0.u35048	I'd like the departments to send me a list. I'm asking you to repeat the vote. We repeat the vote in the second round. Vote now! We're accessing the acclaim vote, something's not with the tech office. Please prepare to vote. Vote now! So I realize that 10 is "against" from the RS and that the proposal is not accepted. As the debate on the draft agenda is concluded, I would like to conclude that the 78th session of the House has the following 7 1. Approval of the minutes of the 77th session of the House of Representatives; 2. Opinions on answers received, (b) New parliamentary issues; 3. A request by Agent Martin Raguž to consider the Proposal for a Law on Amendments and Supplements to the Law on conflict of interest under a hasty procedure, in accordance with Article 127. Rules of Procedure, Law No 01-02-9-35-110 of 14. 5. 2010; 4. A request from the Interim Commission for the Preparation of the Bill on Census, Households and Apartments in Bosnia and Herzegovina 2011 to consider the Proposal for a Law on Census, Households and Apartments in Bosnia and Herzegovina 2011 by a hasty procedure, in accordance with Article 127. Rules of Procedure, Law No 01-02-9-3710 of 24. 5. 2010; 5. A request from the SDA Club for the examination of the proposal for a law supplementing the Service Act in the Armed Forces of Bosnia and Herzegovina under a shortened procedure, in accordance with Article 126. Rules of Procedure, Law No 01-02-8-3610 of 21. 5. 2010; 6. Proposal for a Law on Copyright and Related Rights – Proposer of the Council of Ministers of BiH, Law No 01,02-02-2-510 of 18. 1. 2010 (second reading) – delayed statement at the 77th session of the House; 7. Proposal for a Law on collective exercise of copyright and related rights – Proposer of the Council of Ministers of BiH, Law No 01,02-02-2-410 of 18. 1. 2010 (second reading) – delayed statement at 77 sessions of the House; 8. Proposal for a Law amending and supplementing the Law on Labour in the Institutions of Bosnia and Herzegovina – Proposer of the Council of Ministers of BiH, Law No 01,02-02-7-1110 of 28. 1. 2010 (second reading) – delayed statement at the 77th session of the House; 9. Proposal for a Law on the Promotion of Small and Medium Enterprises and Entrepreneurship in BiH – Proposer of the Council of Ministers of BiH, Law No 01,02-02-4-1210 of 28. 1. 2010 (second reading); 10. Proposal for a Law amending and supplementing the Act on the Protection of Secret Information – Proposer of the Council of Ministers of BiH, Law No 01,02-02-8-1910 of 4. 2. In 2010, with the Joint Commission's report on the work of the BiH Intelligence and Security Agency; 11. Proposal for a Law on Amendments and Supplements to the Service Act in the Armed Forces of Bosnia and Herzegovina – Proposer Niko Lozančić, Law No 01-02-8-2410 of 23. 3. In 2010, with the Joint Defence and Security Commission Report BiH; 12. Proposal for a Law on Amendments and Supplements to the Penal Code of Bosnia and Herzegovina – Proponents of the SDP Club, Law No 01-02-5-3110 of 21. 4. 2010 (first reading); 13. Proposal for a revised Bona and Herzegovina strategy for the implementation of Annex VII. Dayton Peace Agreement – Proposer of the Council of Ministers of BiH, Proposal No 01-37-31010 of 15. 2. 2010 (second reading); 8 14. Proposal for a strategy for sports development in Bosnia and Herzegovina – Proposer of the Council of Ministers of BiH, Proposal No 01,02-35-37210 of 24. 2. In 2010 (second reading); 15 / 15 Report by the College Committee on the Effort of Consent on the Proposal for a Law on Amendments and Supplements to the Law on the conduct of a judicial examination in Bosnia and Herzegovina (first reading); 16. Annual Report by the High Judicial and Prosecutorial Council of Bosnia and Herzegovina for 2009 – Material No 01,02-03-50-3-64610 of 7. 5. 2010; 17. Report on the work of the Management Board of Bosnia and Herzegovina Export Credit Agency for 2009 – material No 01,02-50-3-51410 of 1. 4. 2010 (scheduled debate at 77th session); 18. Report on the Protection of Personal Data in Bosnia and Herzegovina – Material No 01.02- 50-3-59510 of 22. 4. 2010; 19. Report on the 2009 State Agency for Investigation and Protection (SIPA), with an indication of certain issues (proposed to include the Joint Defence and Security Commission for BiH, Act No 031-50-3-503,5110 of 4). 5. 2010); 20. Adherence to ratification (a) of the 2008 Agreement on financing between Bosnia and Herzegovina and the Commission of the European Communities with regard to the horizontal programme on nuclear security and radiation protection, under the 2008 Instrument for Pre-accession Assistance, (b) of the Agreement on the Military Donation between the Council of Ministers of Bosnia and Herzegovina and the Government of the Republic of Turkey, the Implementing Protocol on Financial Assistance between the Ministry of Defence of Bosnia and Herzegovina and the General Staff of the Republic of Turkey, (c) of the Agreement on financing and project between the Ministry of Defence of the Republic of Turkey, Frankfurt in Maine, and Bosnia and Herzegovina and the Public Undertaking ‘Electroprimation of the Croatian Community of Herceg Bosnia’ d.d. Mostar (EP HZHB) – Project Supplemental measures for vjetroelektrana Power Plant Mesihovina, d) European Charter on Regional and Minority Languages – Strasbourg, 5. 11. 1992. Moving to the 1st point of the Ad agenda. 1. The adoption of the minutes of the 77th session of the House of Representatives
ParlaMint-BA_2010-05-25-0.u35051	Wrong. 9
ParlaMint-BA_2010-05-25-0.u35052	Wrong. Dear Representative Salko Sokolović.
ParlaMint-BA_2010-05-25-0.u35053	What's the matter?
ParlaMint-BA_2010-05-25-0.u35054	Nothing, it was a mistake. So there are no reports, I'm closing the hearing. Moving to point two, Ad. 2. Representative questions (a) Comments on answers received By today's session, the questions asked were: Denis Bećirović of the BiH Prosecutor's Office and the Ministry of Justice, and this was asked at the 75th session of the House, from the Ministry of Defence, asked at the 76th session of the House; Željko Kuzmanović of the Ministry of Foreign Affairs, asked at the 76th session of the House; Sadik Bahtić of the State Investigation and Protection Agency, asked at the 76th session of the House; Azra Alajbegović of the Federal Ministry of Health, asked at the 75th session of the House; Momčilo Novaković of the Office for the Audit of the Institutions, asked at the 76th session of the House. We move to comments on the answers received. Does anyone want to comment on the answer? Dear Representative Sadik Bahtić.
ParlaMint-BA_2010-05-25-0.u35056	Thank you. I am pleased with the answer... about determining the assets of Agrokomerc d.d. Big Kladuša. It shows here that there have been 15 reports of cases of alienation of property in Agrommertz. Some are also convicted. They passed it on to the Ministry of the Interior, but I think there are still a lot of crime there and a lot of managers and directors who have taken advantage of themselves, who have taken possessions (locals, self-services, gas stations), and have not responded to Agrokomerc. And there's a colleague named Dolić to discuss. Only if they're not in the coalition again now, so they amnestied each other. So it should still work because everything... over 170... millions of marks Agrokomerc is due. There are a lot of directors who work there today, they have self-services. I think our judiciary should work. And I still had, I thought I'd pick up, so I didn't, I'd like to propose to the College that because of the efficiency of Parliament's session they're not holding... as so far, there's no effect anymore, here we saw 10 today, we're wasting all of our free time, to take care of it. It's an election year, as far as I can tell, it's gonna be... worse. We all have work to do. It should... to Parliament when something very important. Thank you.
ParlaMint-BA_2010-05-25-0.u35057	Thank you. Next is Honorable Representative Momčilo Novaković.
ParlaMint-BA_2010-05-25-0.u35058	Gentlemen of the chairman, distinguished colleagues and colleagues, I have asked the BiH institutions' audit office about non-moving in the allocated space, business space, asking for reasons why BiH institutions are being paid out of the budget and today significant funds for the rent of the office's business space for the revision, although they have been assigned a completely different space. As far as the answer is concerned, I got about, briefly speaking, the answer that the Council of Ministers doesn't know the situation, because if he did, he wouldn't assign it to the Office for Auditing Such a business space and that it's still seven. 1. In 2009, the Office for Auditing its memo, so here is the number, reported that this space is not appropriate. Today, it means almost a year and a half after that, nor has the Council of Ministers done what it has done to resolve the issue nor has the Office of Audit moved into the area. In order to get this conclusion at the end of the answer: 'With everything in sight and with express gratitude for the efforts so far', the Council of Ministers, of course, 'The Office for Auditing this official abandonment of the call'. And I need to thank the Audit Office for informing me first that the official abandonment of the space with which I am here has nothing to do with it. So, I really appreciate that the Office for Auditing has done extremely inconclusively in this case and, if nothing else, the Council of Ministers would have to act in a way: or to annul its decision to assign this space to the Office for Audit, or to oblige the Office for Audit to move in, or to stop lending further funds for the lease of space used by the Office for Audit. Thank you.
ParlaMint-BA_2010-05-25-0.u35059	Thank you. The next is Honourable representative Željko Kuzmanović.
ParlaMint-BA_2010-05-25-0.u35060	Thank you, Mr. Chairman. To my question addressed to the foreign ministry and the BiH presidency as the foreign policy holders of this country, which read: 'Is the Presidency and the Foreign Ministry taking any position on imposing sanctions on Iran?', I received a reply from the foreign ministry that the foreign ministry is familiar with movements in international circles, diplomatic circles but that the issue has not yet been discussed. 11 I can't help thinking that either this question is not taken seriously enough or the Ministry of Foreign Affairs has continued to practice, not to say otherwise than not working on key diplomatic issues. I don't know if it makes sense to ask the same question, or to repeat the same question, but I would like to know, since there are some members of the Presidency's media comment on the position: is there a possible position taken and whether to refer it to the foreign ministry again or to another competent institute to create BiH foreign policy? Thank you.
ParlaMint-BA_2010-05-25-0.u35061	Thank you. The next is distinguished representative Denis Bećirović.
ParlaMint-BA_2010-05-25-0.u35062	I have a new question, if you don't mind.
ParlaMint-BA_2010-05-25-0.u35063	Okay, no more comments. Approaching b) New parliamentary issues Dear Representative Šefik Džaferović.
ParlaMint-BA_2010-05-25-0.u35065	Mr. Chairman, colleagues and colleagues, ladies and gentlemen, I have one parliamentary question from two parts, and one is the problem. The issue was addressed to the BiH Council of Ministers and reads: '1. At what stage is the establishment of the Agency for Forensic Studies and Arts, in particular did the Agency make a strategic document related to the needs of agencies to implement laws on certain types of skills, necessary equipment, human resources, and the financial resources needed to work? This given the fact that the Agency should become a service to law enforcement agencies. 2. Is there a plan for the strategic takeover of human resources and technical capacities from agencies and law enforcement bodies to the extent that their responsibilities are taken over? If not, when will it be done? This would allow for continuity in laboratory work and avoid unnecessary waste of time and resources. The takeover of the people also took place in all formed agencies at the state level to the extent that business took place." 12 I will submit this question, and in an explanation, let me just say it for a moment. As you know, we have adopted here in Parliament the Law on the application of the results of deoxyribonucleic acid analysis in court proceedings, and at that time certain voices could be heard that this agency that is to play a key role in all of this is not qualified for this job. On the other hand, we in BiH have appropriate laboratories and we have resources and so we don't come into a position to destroy those resources that we made at entity or entity levels in BiH, and we don't set up this agency, I ask this question. So this agency needs to be trained before it takes over the role it needs to take over under the law. First of all, according to the law governing the agency's operations, because it is not the purpose of reforming what has been achieved so far, but to improve what has been achieved in BiH so far. We have reference laboratories and people, and it needs to be taken over together, and it needs to be an integral part of the state agency. That's why my question came the way it is. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-BA_2010-05-25-0.u35066	Thank you. The next is distinguished representative Husein Nanić.
ParlaMint-BA_2010-05-25-0.u35067	I thank you, Chairman. My fellow Members and fellow Members, allow me to ask the following questions today. First there's a question for... The BiH Council of Ministers: 'In BiH, there is a campaign on the introduction of compulsory secondary education, which, according to the polls in the public, has huge support, and I personally think that this is a good thing, and therefore I am asking the Council of Ministers: Is it included in this survey and if it is in what way and what is the Council of Ministers' position on the introduction of compulsory secondary education in BiH?' The second question is the judicial institutions in BiH, so... The justice ministry, the High Court and Prosecutor's Council, the Prosecutor's Office and the Court of BiH: 'It is known that Momir Savić has been sentenced to 17 years in prison for the war crimes he committed in the Visegrad area and has fled to the judicial authorities of our country prior to his second-degree sentence. I ask these institutions, meaning the Ministry of Justice, the High Court and Prosecutor's Council, the Prosecutor's Office and the Court of BiH: Is an investigation in this matter initiated, I ask that Parliament be provided with information on the same, and what is being done and what will these institutions do so that such and similar cases no longer take place?' Thank you.
ParlaMint-BA_2010-05-25-0.u35068	Thank you. 13 The next is the distinguished representative of Šemsudin Mehmedović.
ParlaMint-BA_2010-05-25-0.u35069	Madam Chairman, ladies and gentlemen of the Parliament, distinguished guests, I welcome you. I have a brief question to the director of SIPA: 'I ask that a copy of the SiPA Building Contract be delivered to me as well as an Annex contract to build the same building.' Reason: It is already known in the public that SIPA employees are already moving into the unfinished SIPA building, thus jeopardising the basic function of SIPA and employee safety. It is also evident that the delay in handing over the facility after the work has been completed, and that these facts would be clarified in public looking for a copy of these contracts. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-BA_2010-05-25-0.u35070	Thank you. The next is distinguished representative Denis Bećirović.
ParlaMint-BA_2010-05-25-0.u35071	I ask the public question to the BiH Prosecutor's Office and the question is, "What exactly did you do in the BiH Prosecutor's Office with the aim of processing responsible persons for an operation called the Sword 1 and which was led against the citizens of Bihac and the whole of the Cazin region?" Namely, our mission as elected officials in this country is to defend the interests of BiH citizens and to fight for the truth. The international and domestic public are partly familiar with what was happening in BiH. Most citizens now know that genocide took place in Srebrenica, they heard or felt mass war crimes on their skin in this country, but very few people in this country know that a chemical-biological war has been waged against the citizens of this country. It's about the citizens of Bihac and the Cazin region. In the BiH Parliament, no one has yet proposed a declaration or resolution to condemn such an act. I don't think we have the right to keep it quiet here in the BiH Parliament. We have no right because no one in Europe has used chemical-biological weapons against civilians since 1945. The last person to do this in Europe was the Nazi Mengele who took people to the gas chambers. Unfortunately, we must realise that BiH citizens have also killed with chemical-biological toxins. It is about the use of biological-chemical substances against the BiH population that were placed through contaminated food. So they were poisoned products such as flour, sugar, oil, liquid detergents, etc. The poison was obtained in the RS and there are a number of documents that talk about it. When and how they walked in with such poisoned food and how many civilians were killed and there are a lot of documents about it. 14 I would like to ask the BiH Public Prosecutor's Office what has been done in connection with the processing of responsible persons for Operation mač 1 so that finally the citizens of the entire BiH and, in particular, Bihac and the whole of Krajina know the true truth. Thank you. And I have another question, given that today's 15th anniversary of the massacre at the Tuzlani Gate, also the BiH Prosecutor's Office: 'What have you done specifically with the aim of processing responsible persons for the crime committed at the Tuzlani Gate on 25 May 1995. the year?'
ParlaMint-BA_2010-05-25-0.u35072	Thank you. The next is Honorable Representative Ekrem Ajanović.
ParlaMint-BA_2010-05-25-0.u35073	Mr. President, we know that there are estimates in the world that over 30% of medicines are of suspicious origin and that they are of poor quality so that every country is protected, insisting that these drugs used in the country are controlled by their laboratories, so-called. control labs. We have a very significant... control laboratory that is networked into European laboratories and has received all references. Unfortunately, we estimate that there are 1,800 medicines that have never been controlled in... the Medicines Agency laboratory, which puts the health of the entire BiH population at risk. True, there are possibilities of control outside the state labs, which is very dangerous, because every country prefers its products and its medicines. Therefore, that should not be allowed. There is a registration of some drugs besides the Commission for the Registration of Medicinal Products, which is contrary to the law itself and the adoption of a law on the Medicines Agency itself. On the other hand, there is a suspicion that the "Station Policy" was ultimately not adopted and that workers were received beyond that. And the third item that needs to be answered also, and I will end up asking questions, which is that according to the Drug Act, an essential list must be made for the entire BiH population at the state level. On the contrary, it has not yet been adopted because, as we could look at the other day on the show, we see that they oppose the adoption of such a list of even some entity ministers, specifically from the RS. And the last thing that interests me is: because the control laboratory has very sophisticated and quality equipment and there is not enough space, although it is the building in which it is located, it is the building of the Republic of BiH, meaning the state institution in which the illegal health ministry and the Federal Institute of Epidemiology have emigrated, and that dispute is being held in the court, and in Sarajevo there is also enough health space that has held certain republican institutions before this.
ParlaMint-BA_2010-05-25-0.u35074	Time!
ParlaMint-BA_2010-05-25-0.u35075	And I'm finally asking the question, so it's the Department of Civil Affairs. The question is: 15 'Are these facts true, who is to blame for such a situation, and what will the Ministry of Civil Affairs do to remove these anomalies and to fully implement the law?' That's my first question.
ParlaMint-BA_2010-05-25-0.u35076	You used your time and you've been over it for 40 seconds.
ParlaMint-BA_2010-05-25-0.u35077	I don't... I will say immediately, and this second question will not be read but is together with Azra Hadžiahmetović, with Azra Alajbegović, I apologize, and will only contribute in writing form.
ParlaMint-BA_2010-05-25-0.u35078	Thank you. The next is the distinguished representative Mirjana Malić.
ParlaMint-BA_2010-05-25-0.u35079	Dear Chairman, colleagues and colleagues, allow me only a 20-second explanation before I refer the matter to the Central Election Commission. I'm not going to elaborate everything that's speculated in the media today about transparency, etc., I just want to explain the question, to remind my colleagues. We have to import the voting paper. For the purpose of printing ballots, 130 tonnes of 80 grams of paper in A1 format is necessary, i.e. 14 million sheets are printed, 90% of which are in A3 and A4 format and of these 130 tonnes 3% of scissors are allowed. To shorten the whole story, in those 3% of the shears, if you know how many araks, or that 23 ark A1 are in one kilogram, you will get a total of 358.800 sheets of A4 and 89,700, respectively, and 89,700 ballots of A3 which can be extracted from the allowed shears. The obligation of printing is to preserve every broken arak of paper and ultimately destroy it along with the members of the CEC. But my question is motivated by the possibility, which exists, that, in the name of the shears, the theft of ballots is done because it is the thing that is left to the sphere of conscience of the members of the CEC. Therefore, on behalf of the SDP Club, I address the Central Election Commission with the question: 'How will it ensure the treatment and control of the import of the paper necessary for the printing of ballots which should, in fact, be treated as valuable and that all customs controls pass? And secondly, how will the abuse and theft of ballots be prevented, that is, to ensure the destruction of the shears in the press? And let me do that about this, and based on Article 8. Rules of Procedure, I take advantage of the time available to me and to submit to this House an initiative to place a point of transparency and legality for the upcoming elections in one of the next sittings as a new item of the agenda: 'Providing transparency and legality of the printing of ballots for the upcoming elections...' In this sense, I offer two conclusions: that a working group will be formed for the transparency and legality of the electoral process, which will control the import of paper for the printing of ballots, the control of the press and the control of the shears, the distribution of election material and the return of voting material, and I suggest that the working group be formed with 16 representatives of all political parties represented in Parliament. And also, that this home obliges the printer to be required on ballots
ParlaMint-BA_2010-05-25-0.u35080	Time!
ParlaMint-BA_2010-05-25-0.u35081	(Let me just read it), the serial number of ballots and the code of the municipality, because we don't have it today, and this could prevent the abuse of scans and other ways of abuse that is huge. The second question referred to the Council of Ministers will be delivered in writing, with regard to the extension of the applicable licences to producers of petroleum products that expire within a month and which do not comply with European standards and norms. Thank you.
ParlaMint-BA_2010-05-25-0.u35082	Thank you. The next is Remzija Kadrić, a respected representative.
ParlaMint-BA_2010-05-25-0.u35083	I thank you, Chairman. I have one initiative, which I refer to the Council of Ministers: that the Council of Ministers annuls its decision by which employees in BiH institutions who have a higher level of work, and their managers assess that they have specifically advocated, will be able to earn at least one more salary a year. The discussion of this initiative does not need to be particularly highlighted in this economic situation. I therefore refer this initiative to the Council of Ministers, so that it annuls its decision allowing for additional salaries in such a situation when we have a severe economic crisis and many unemployed. Such a decision is really unnecessary, incorrect and immoral. Thank you.
ParlaMint-BA_2010-05-25-0.u35084	Thank you. The next is distinguished representative Salko Sokolović.
ParlaMint-BA_2010-05-25-0.u35085	Thank you, Mr. Chairman. My colleagues and colleagues, I am asking a parliamentary question to the Ministry of Transport and Communications: 17 'Who and by whose authority and on what criteria does the distribution of bilateral CEMT permits take place?' Reason: There has not been a storm over the illegal distribution of CEMT permits in the Ministry of Transport and Communications by some officials in this ministry, and there are already serious objections by carriers in the way these permits are distributed, and how they are shared by the Minister’s advisor. So I ask this question in order to clarify these ambiguities. Thank you.
ParlaMint-BA_2010-05-25-0.u35086	Thank you. The next is distinguished representative Branko Dokić.
ParlaMint-BA_2010-05-25-0.u35087	Thank you, Chairman. I have to admit that you found me writing what I was about to say, but I'll manage. I have two parliamentary questions. One question is addressed to the Council of Ministers or, to be more precise, to the Ministry of Communications and Transport and to the Ministry of Finance and to ask them for information: "What about the conclusion of the 37th session of the BiH Parliamentary House of Representatives since 23 March 2010 by which all the funds, i.e. all the excess funds achieved by the RAC for 2008 and 2009 are directed towards the digitisation of the RTV system in BiH?" As I was informed, the Ministry of Communications and Transport referred the proposal for a decision to the Council of Ministers, which was part of the 2008 funds of 4.232,000 KM. And it was done in February, and until today, the finance ministry did not refer the proposal to the Council of Ministers. After the aforementioned decision of our home, the Ministry of Communications and Transport complemented the proposal for a decision for the remaining 3,400,000 KM right away in early May. Not until today, as far as I'm aware, that decision has not been forwarded to the Council of Ministers for adoption. I am simply under the impression that for some reason in this walking decision-making within the service of the Council of Ministers, we will reach a huge delay. Although we are already late, I would like to remind you that the excess funding of the 2008 RAC amounting to about 7.500.00 KM stands un-expended, here is more than a year and a half. And it's really inadmissible. With these resources, the first phase of digitisation could have been realized. Not to mention that BiH ratified Geneva's final document in 2006, under which BiH institutions also created a commitment to help the RT system digitise the first system. That's one question.
ParlaMint-BA_2010-05-25-0.u35088	Time! 18
ParlaMint-BA_2010-05-25-0.u35089	Second, is it for every question?
ParlaMint-BA_2010-05-25-0.u35090	You have three minutes in total. I've already let you go for half a minute.
ParlaMint-BA_2010-05-25-0.u35091	And I'm asking you and this is very important. The second question is addressed to the Director of the Directorate for Direct Taxation. In fact, the last 15 days have seen an incomprehensible interpretation of one of the officials at the Direct Taxation Directorate by which a foreign registration vehicle is connected but on a tow vehicle registered in BiH should be paid for customs. Not to mention, right here I found the law that treats it.
ParlaMint-BA_2010-05-25-0.u35092	Ask a question, you've been over the clock.
ParlaMint-BA_2010-05-25-0.u35093	So the question is to the director of the Directorate for indirect taxation: 'What will he do against an irresponsible official who has made unprofessional and irresponsible interpretations contrary to the law and has put carriers in BiH in a very unfavourable position? And also, at the end of this question, I ask that this controversial interpretation be put out of effect and here it is in these papers: as it is treated in law, as it is treated with CEMT recommendations and how it is done elsewhere in the world and in our environment. No customs duty shall be paid on the vehicle which is connected because it has been rented and customs duty paid in another country, owned by a foreign citizen. And so far it has been, but here it has been since the last 15 days that someone has come to mind that in an illegal way they can take someone's money." Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-BA_2010-05-25-0.u35094	Next is Honorable Representative Rifat Dolić.
ParlaMint-BA_2010-05-25-0.u35095	Mr. Chairman, colleagues and colleagues, distinguished guests, I have one question. It's a question of the Federal Privatisation Agency and the Federal Ministry of Agriculture, Water and Forestry. The question is: 'What is the structure of ownership in the company Bosnalijek Sarajevo and did this agency and the ministry deal with the data that is also part of the property of this company, namely the Akofarm Products Factory, which was illegally alienated from Agrokommerc immediately after the war and transferred to Bosnalek without any documentation and decisions by the authorities and institutions?' 19 The sale of state capital in this company has been announced recently, and I think it is inappropriate in this way to change the structure of ownership without first clarifying the status of property in Agromerco's company, which simply after the war was moved from the Akofarm plant to Bosniaaliek, so without any accompanying documentation and decisions. It is known that it is the equipment that was purchased, before or during the war, mainly from France and that the equipment unpacked welcomed the end of the war and after the war was moved mysteriously to Bosniaaliek, thinking that it should not be in Akofarm and the Great Claudius. The purchase value of this equipment is about $18 million. Please provide me with a written answer to this question and a copy of the questions to the SIPA. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-BA_2010-05-25-0.u35096	Thank you. The next is Honorable Representative Adem Huskić.
ParlaMint-BA_2010-05-25-0.u35097	Thank you, Mr. Chairman. I hope to fit in at the scheduled time. My intention today is to open one, in my opinion, an important issue that has not been present at our sessions yet seems to me on the agendas of other bodies in BiH and I think it deserves to be found. One part or one segment of the issue was asked by counterpart Nanić. I will try three questions, as I would say, to expand the problem a little bit and to refer the question to the Council of Ministers. First: 'How does the state of security in BiH affect cases of escape from prison of convicted war criminals? A colleague, Nanić, mentioned one case. It's just the last case, there are more cases like that." Another question: "Who is responsible for such phenomena and what do you intend to do that such cases do not happen in the future?" And the third question is, "How do these phenomena affect witnesses in court cases against the crawlers, war crimes indictees, especially protected witnesses?" I'm not gonna explain anything. I think the questions are clear. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-BA_2010-05-25-0.u35098	Thank you. The next is Honourable representative Sadik Bahtić.
ParlaMint-BA_2010-05-25-0.u35099	Thank you. My question is for the High Court and Prosecutor's Council: 20 'What criteria were the High Court and Prosecutor's Council conducted in the appointment of Judge Dragica Glušac as State Prosecutor?' Reason: I'm from the Sanhedrin Bridge. The entire public of the sanski most, USK and beyond, is aware that Glušac worked as a judge at the Sanski Most Municipal Court during the war. Doing that job in '93. She ran one case for the rape of a Bosniak Bošnjakinja and made a conditional decision. A large number of citizens from the Sanhedrin Bridge came to me to ask the question here in Parliament. I'm asking this because citizens who know this case and Glušac, and so am I, are bitter that the High Judicial and Prosecutorial Council has made this decision. I am following through the media and I am aware that the High Judicial and Prosecutorial Council has decided to extend the work of Judge Glušac as prosecutor, and that a review of the Decision on the appointment of Glusac is under way. What kind of picture of BiH's judiciary will BiH citizens have when these people are referred to as such important functions in the judiciary?
ParlaMint-BA_2010-05-25-0.u35100	Thank you. We've exhausted asking questions and we're moving to agenda number three: Ad. 3. A request by MP Martin Raguž to consider the Proposal for a Law on Amendments and Supplements to the Law on conflict of interest in BiH institutions following a hasty procedure, in accordance with Article 127. Rules of Procedure Representative Martin Raguž The draft law delivered 14. 5. In 2010, with a request to be considered by a hasty procedure. We've received an OHR letter in connection with the bill's proposal, and it's been shared to all of you. Today we decide on this request. I'm opening a debate on this request. Dear First Vice-President Beriz Belkić.
ParlaMint-BA_2010-05-25-0.u35102	I will indeed bring what I am about to say into context, try to bring into the context of the debate on the request for procedure, because I think it is very important that we remind ourselves, therefore, that this is not a throat from the clear sky, to remind ourselves that we have, for the past seven or eight months, and even a year, had two attempts to solve this problem, i.e. to bring our existing Law of Conflict of Interest into line with European standards and opinions of the European Commission and the needs of practice. The last attempt we had in January here, so the proposal was made by the Council of Ministers, failed. The law did not pass in the first reading, and we then discussed that it would be necessary to obtain the opinion of the Venice Commission and this draft, although we had an opinion on the existing 2008 law from the Venice Commission. After the discussions we had and 21 proposed conclusions, we did not opt to obtain it, so as a member of the College, I asked for an opinion on a draft that had not been passed, which was proposed by the Council of Ministers. And we have received this draft opinion, which is the draft opinion, with the notice that the Venice Commission will have an official meeting in early June, and then that opinion would finally become an official one. I'm saying this because I'm telling you that the club is not going to support an emergency procedure, precisely because we're going to get a final opinion at the beginning of June, and here we have some interventions and suggestions, and I don't think it would be a good idea today to accept this as an emergency procedure, but to simply go into normal procedure or a shortened procedure and then to treat and involve experts and possibly try to come up with a solution that will be acceptable to European practice in this area and also understandable and acceptable to our public.
ParlaMint-BA_2010-05-25-0.u35103	Thank you. The next is the distinguished representative Vinko Zorić.
ParlaMint-BA_2010-05-25-0.u35104	Mr. President, dear colleagues and fellow MPs and MPs, representatives and representatives of the Council of Ministers, distinguished guests, I will, on behalf of our club, very briefly, with the hope that we will make up for the lost time of 120 minutes, say the following. You have seen the ambitions of this law from the reasons for the proposed amendments and the additions, but I will quote one sentence in the explanation: 'This sanction has deprived the elected official of the right to choose and be elected, which is one of the fundamental human rights guaranteed by the BiH Constitution and international standards of rights and fundamental freedoms that BiH has accepted and ratified. We need to determine whether some law can provide for sanctions that are contrary to all civilization and democratic standards, including the constitutions of all or almost all countries of the world, which is the right to choose and be elected in democratic elections." Similarly to this brief amendment of the existing law, a working group has also acted which has established a complete proposal for a conflict of interest law and, according to articles that treat sanctions. But the fact is that all the clubs in this house have received a memo from OHR and that we from the club are concerned about the fate of this law. I will also quote a sentence in this letter, so the OHR letter says: 'The conflict of interest rules are a pillar of every democratic society because they strengthen the responsibility of public officials and protect citizens' rights'. I therefore propose, on behalf of the club, that the draft law go into procedure under Article 126, i.e. A shortened procedure and that as regards sanctions in the existing law, the most rigorous provisions provided for by the laws of any EU member state in order for the regulation to be a pillar of a democratic society in BiH, that the regulation strengthens the responsibility of the holder of public functions and that the regulation protects citizens' rights. 22
ParlaMint-BA_2010-05-25-0.u35105	Husein Nanić.
ParlaMint-BA_2010-05-25-0.u35106	I thank you, Chairman. Here, when I'm talking about this law, I'd like to support this thinking Mr. Belkić made. And I would ask that the text that came from the Venice Commission to get us MPs, too. And I think he's going to get this thing serious and that this way he's going to significantly avoid politicizing the potential of this issue. And secondly, in short, I have really come forward, and the other thing I would say about this law is that here I call on the MPs in this time which is already open for the election time to ask questions about the rights of MPs, to increase or reduce rights or, I don't know, any other topics that concern us Members to avoid this story, to not open the policyisation process of these topics, to convince, to have morals, etc., and in that sense, I don't think it's a good time to discuss this law and to deal with it this way, and in particular I don't think that it's a good thing to do in an emergency procedure and to do it in one home.
ParlaMint-BA_2010-05-25-0.u35107	Momčilo Novaković.
ParlaMint-BA_2010-05-25-0.u35108	Dear colleagues and colleagues, it seems like it's never good to discuss a law like this, because last time we discussed it, then we realized that we should wait for the Venice Commission to tell us how to vote. I was going to say that I'm about to support a member of 127, but here's the proposal that changed it into Article 126. As far as I'm concerned, I'm not gonna back this bill, because it's rigid and gives the Electoral Commission the right to prevent someone from being chosen. This is the right of the Election Commission not to, there is no country in the EU, I don't see what it would have in this country. So the Constitution can only prevent someone from being chosen. So, I will, when the amendment phase, act by amendment to in any way... prevent the Central Election Commission from giving someone a ban on running. Thank you.
ParlaMint-BA_2010-05-25-0.u35109	Šefik Džaferović
ParlaMint-BA_2010-05-25-0.u35110	Mr. Chairman, colleagues and colleagues, ladies and gentlemen, the text of a law offered by a colleague, Raguž, is actually a middle between what we have today, and it is valid in the BiH legal system, and what a working group led by Mr. 23 Momčilo Novaković. It is good that the promoter himself right now, having seen all the circumstances that follow this law, decided not to expose us to the need to declare an emergency procedure, but to propose one procedure which, as far as I'm concerned, is acceptable, so this shortened procedure, and allowed us to wait for what Mr Belkić was talking about, so definitely opinion. We have a draft opinion, a colleague of Belkić's got it, I know about it. The Venice Commission will deliver an opinion at the beginning of June, and in addition, we have an opinion on this issue and we already have on this subject, which dates back to several years ago from the Venice Commission. So we have enough of these opinions, and when this latest one arrives, it is quite certain that we will be able to make a decision on what we need to decide on. I have spoken on this subject and will remain consistent, when it comes to what I have so far represented. I believe that today's system of sanctions is rigorous when it comes to the Law of Conflict of Interest, but I also believe that what the earlier group proposed, so I suggested that this law go to the Venice Commission, and Mr Belkić delivered it, if so – was also unacceptable. It is my opinion that the fine should be a base sentence for illegal or illegal conduct, and the aim of the law should be to eliminate conflict of interest. I think the measure in this situation is then a fine for the injury committed, for the offence committed, and for the withdrawal, that is, the removal of the position of conflict of interest. If an official does not want to remove the conflict of interest, then the state removes the conflict of interest by telling him that no official will be elected. And that should be our way. I think this law points to such solutions, but it takes a few details to sort out in this law, and that's why I'm glad, in my opinion, that he went into this shortened procedure. I believe that we, within the Constitutional Commission, will be able to come up with a generally acceptable solution for this, when we have these opinions. There are two or three pins in the text of this law that need to be clarified and that is why I think, by reading the letter that came from OHR, they caused one such letter. That's it, thank you.
ParlaMint-BA_2010-05-25-0.u35111	We're discussing a request for a procedure. Milorad Živković.
ParlaMint-BA_2010-05-25-0.u35112	Thank you, Chairman. Namely, given our practice of voting at the end of the agenda and not opening the debate afterwards, if the procedure is adopted, I think it's good, if someone already has something to say about this, and that along with... the procedure touches the law itself because of, here I say, the times that cost us... In our amended and updated agenda under 3 is the request of MP Martin Raguž where it is said to be called 'The Law of Conflict of Interest'. It was left out here to write 24 that it was a law on conflict of interest in BiH's government institutions, at least according to the agenda I have on me. At the same time, I think our commission that did a good job, that the only reason we took that law off the agenda or didn't get most is to wait for the opinion of the Venice Commission. In that proposal, i.e. the draft I have read, it is not understandable enough or something positive can be drawn from it so that Parliament and the Members of Parliament can direct us to act in that direction. I am not for individual solutions, although the Central Election Commission has recently, I must say, been very active and gives our MPs sanctions on the ban on running. I don't know why this was waiting in the election year and why they haven't been used all these years to do it, because these MPs have been in the same position since the beginning of the term of office. Apparently, there is also a political angle of view and of the adoption of such partial amendments and additions to the law. I am so that this parliament solves this problem the way it went in solving it, that our commission waits for the opinion of the Venice Commission and proposes this law in full form as it was already here in front of the MPs. This would be consistent with our efforts to end this, and thus would not individually address the issues of various MPs who, I say, are burning under the heels of the Central Election Commission's announcement that they will not be able to run in the next period. I am for the solution, but I am for the whole, not the partial.
ParlaMint-BA_2010-05-25-0.u35113	Thank you. Nice to Kalabić you.
ParlaMint-BA_2010-05-25-0.u35114	Well, here's the thing about this law of known dilemmas is right here in front of us, and I'm only going to say one of my observations. BiH is suffering public criticism, which on the inside, which on the outside, is still not implementing the Court's ruling in Strasbourg. The bottom line of that verdict is that... human rights are being violated by the two, and normally the other ones who have... won that dispute, that they can't be candidates. Although in the light of this verdict, especially the judge who gave the opinion a clear statement, when the country's legal structure was created, why so and what were the reasons that the Constitution was such, that the way the elections were made was such. And that judge has raised one great dilemma, whether respecting one value can be questioned by others, by him, by greater values and so on. Those dilemmas weren't enough, the court ruled that I also feel so perfectly normal that it's not right that someone in this country can't... run and there's no man in this country who doesn't have the right to run. And then we have an absurd situation that someone because he's a second cousin of his aunt, his girlfriend, has something to do with the communal, I don't know, enterprise, and then there the Electoral Commission, by its system, catches him in that machine and says, "Sir, you can't run anymore." What's with the human rights? And that you have a situation where one administrative decision, because of one such situation, prevents people and what about their human rights if we give people right here, and the whole fight is that they can run, we have this situation at the same time that we don't let people run. Because there's an aunt, or this, or the one, found something with help, of course, that goes with those who insist on it, 25 by the lobby. The Electoral Commission here has its MPs, it is not a secret, there is a lobby of the Election Commission, people who have a task to prevent certain things and it is... already a known fact. And you now have a situation where someone in this House can be convicted of a crime, swearing to the state, cursing Parliament, not knowing what they're doing here, and being prosecuted by the judicial authorities and getting it, say, I don't know, three months in prison or fine, and that one can go back to the elections and come back to Parliament who... I don't know, humiliated, who's been working to say no, against, because there seems to me a much bigger limit, so that you're not candidates you should kill at least two, three there and be convicted when it comes to that. But you have a situation here to say someone can when an anthem sits on the floor and it can be fined or whatever, but it can't, no one can stop it in the election. Is it logical and normal for you to choose a man because one of his relatives was in some business not to be allowed to run, and the one who did it here, I chose a rough way, means the one who does it because he says, you know, it's not enough sanctions, I don't even know about everything, can't run. As we have come into this situation to say that this is not a violation of human rights, it is reportedly the introduction of order in a state by an institution that has become a state of our own free will. And I'm interested in what the MEPs would say about this situation that someone for some few hundred marks is working with an institution that... one man can't... be run, not have his right to be chosen. And at the same time, on the other hand, everything has risen against us, so why don't we let people run for office. I don't know how we got into this situation that one can and the other can't. Now that's the story of the poor and the lame and those who know what I'm saying, what she looks like. We've been waiting for that. And I'll say briefly, when the poor man said his mouse bit his cake, everyone was surprised, said he was lying, lying, he ate the cake. When the game of the next year came to the same glory as the rich, he said that... his mouse bit the lemes on the plow. Of course not, he says, he can bite the mouse, right, the mouse is the devil, he says. Well, now we're in a situation if some OHR clerk says there's some present here that it's the Holy Scriptures. If we ask this question, we are not competent enough, we are not valid enough to respect it in any way, but I am asking only, and I am ending it, what about this situation, what about human rights violations on one side of the Sejdic-Sejdić-Finci case that we are all in a situation that we are all in a position to help people to really run, and at the same time in another situation we are creating assumptions that theoretically 30 people from here until October or until September can not be run, that they are banned from participating in the election of one such institution. So, not the court, not the court where I could talk about it. I think it's illogical and all those who participate in preventing that from happening I don't think they have a good argument.
ParlaMint-BA_2010-05-25-0.u35115	Thank you. Replica, the esteemed representative Vinko Zorić.
ParlaMint-BA_2010-05-25-0.u35116	Of course it's not a replica, especially a respected colleague, Kalabić, but I wonder if you registered from the leadership that I changed the request, on behalf of the club. So, today we're only talking about a request to approve a shortened procedure, and then everything else goes beyond that. 26
ParlaMint-BA_2010-05-25-0.u35117	Thank you. No more logs, closing this item on the agenda. Moving to the fourth item of the agenda: Ad. 4. A request from the Interim Commission for the Preparation of the Bill on Census, Households and Stans in BiH in 2011 to consider the Proposal for a Law on Census, Households and Apartments in BiH in 2011 following a hasty procedure, in accordance with Article 127. Rules of Procedure In accordance with the conclusion of the House of Representatives at the 77th session, the Interim Commission delivered Proposal 24. 5. In 2010, with a request for an expeditation procedure, Article 127. Rules of Procedure. Today we're deciding on a request for an emergency procedure. I'm opening a debate on this request. Dear Representative Ekrem Ajanović.
ParlaMint-BA_2010-05-25-0.u35119	What I'm about to say is only on my own behalf, not on behalf of the club and not on behalf of the party to which I belong. I believe that this law, although it has been written a lot about it, has been found thanks to the compromise, and I could also say that it is actually a rotten compromise on the harm of people who have been exiled, refugees and who do not currently live in their homes, regardless of what part of the state of BiH. And that is why I believe that this law should not go by emergency procedure, but this law should go perhaps, at best, in a shortened procedure. That's one thing. The second thing, right away, I know, and I've read the OHR statements and the EU representatives and I don't think they're right, they're actually wrong. It cannot be said that only those who wish to be declared should be made an ethnic list. That's one, in my court, nonsense, should be what's being written, it should be mandatory, anyway. And the third thing, if someone from the EU or anyone prefers that people who have escaped should not be on the list, he is in fact indirectly saying that there should be no return of the refugees. And that's why I don't think this law has matured into an emergency procedure.
ParlaMint-BA_2010-05-25-0.u35120	Thank you. The next is Honorable Representative Adem Huskić. 27
ParlaMint-BA_2010-05-25-0.u35121	Thank you. I'll do it very briefly. I don't think, Mr. Chairman, this law doesn't meet the criteria of going by this article. Because it can go according to article 127, so at least it says, as I recall, if it has a high degree of urgency or if the law is simple. This isn't, I mean, the least you could say is simple law. There are 49 members, and this would be the biggest law ever that anyone's ever asked to go through with an emergency procedure. So, I also think, I'm saying, of course, on my own behalf, that it doesn't meet the formal conditions to go along with this article. Thank you.
ParlaMint-BA_2010-05-25-0.u35122	Thank you. I just want to remind you that this committee has acted in accordance with the conclusion of this House. Dear, second vice president, Dr. Milorad Živković.
ParlaMint-BA_2010-05-25-0.u35123	The SNSD Club, when discussed, noted that this law cannot be passed under Article 127. That's when everyone knew, and those who voted for this commission to work and who got most of it, that this bill went for 127. I ask all those who voted for it in this House that in such a way this law come here to also apply to this requirement and to end this law today.
ParlaMint-BA_2010-05-25-0.u35124	Thank you. The next is Remzija Kadrić, a respected representative.
ParlaMint-BA_2010-05-25-0.u35125	I thank you, Chairman. So, on the trail of what Adem Huskić was saying, it's a very complex issue, therefore, this law really wouldn't be able to accept that, by emergency procedure, we pass... a law like this. So there are many things that can be removed in the regular procedure, in the phase of the amendment when it comes to Articles 4 and 8 and many other members. Therefore, I believe that in the regular procedure these many shortcomings, these many problems under this law are being removed. Therefore, there are really no conditions here and we will be against this law being considered and adopted by an emergency procedure. Thank you.
ParlaMint-BA_2010-05-25-0.u35126	No more reports, closing the hearing. 28
ParlaMint-BA_2010-05-25-0.u35127	microphone not enabled
ParlaMint-BA_2010-05-25-0.u35128	I may be a quick conclusion, though, but you're too slow to answer. But here, since I haven't seen it, I'll give you a chance to answer it. Dear Representative Šefik Džaferović.
ParlaMint-BA_2010-05-25-0.u35129	Dear colleagues and colleagues, ladies and gentlemen, this is an extremely important matter so we can just go over it. I agree with colleagues who say that the law has a little more members than the procedure proposed, that this is a politically important law, but we have formed a group that has been sitting here for days, dissipating a member by detail, a letter by letter, and after all this we are prepared to support the law by article 127, but immediately. And I didn't get up to say it, our position is known, he was already a member of our commission, so I got up to say this: so all those requests for a shortened procedure or a regular procedure aimed at some amendments that would alter certain provisions such as applying the results of the '91 census. years, etc. will not be supported in the amendment phase by the SDA. And anyone who tries to at that stage, especially these key political matters agreed within this group, will try to divorce, as a consequence, have a failure to comply with this law. That's it, thank you.
ParlaMint-BA_2010-05-25-0.u35130	Replica, second vice president, Dr. Milorad Živković.
ParlaMint-BA_2010-05-25-0.u35131	Thank you. All those who have not known how to talk to their colleagues in the U.S.A. today may have found two examples of what it looks like. One example is when we vote on holding this session and the arrangements that we have in the Extended College, at least twice, and another way in which a legal project, such as a census, enters a small door here with a story that it can be amended in the same commission. I hope that now the colleagues who were in the commission and those who came from the RS, after a legislative project was brought down by the Council of Ministers of the same SDA, now realise that this is the way this legal project should be brought down by those from the RS and that they will be blamed for why BiH will not have a census. That's the way to talk to colleagues from the SDA.
ParlaMint-BA_2010-05-25-0.u35132	Replica, distinguished representative Šefik Džaferović. 29
ParlaMint-BA_2010-05-25-0.u35133	So, fellow Živković, SDA is a big political party, great potential and you will always have the opportunity to learn from the SDA and the SDA. And don't be surprised what that is. If it were different, it would be catastrophic. I'll just remind you what came from the Council of Ministers as a legal proposal. So let's say I remind you what you suggested in the last Parliament's meeting when it comes to the census, so if I have to remind you of what we've been doing here today by this task force, and to remind you of what we've given them. We've given them the task of creating a text to come into the procedure here under Article 127. That's what Parliament did. The Council of Ministers proposed law and ignored the '91 census. A year. Ignored the citizens of BiH. And you have proposed a law in the past meeting where you did not neglect BiH citizens. Let me tell you what Serbia has done with its law, what Croatia has done with its law. And very seriously, I say, we are ready today to support the proposal under Article 127, and in the amendment phase, we will not agree to any changes, especially those concerning and parts of the political issue of this law. This is a minimum and the SDA below it won't be able to go. That's it, thank you.
ParlaMint-BA_2010-05-25-0.u35134	Dear Representative Bakir Izetbegović, replica.
ParlaMint-BA_2010-05-25-0.u35135	I don't know why the chairman of Živković is arguing this way in this home. Why this attitude towards the U.S.A.? I don't know what you think it's supposed to be or how to treat the SDA, but I'll tell you how it shouldn't be and how it sure as hell won't go. So, it won't be possible for the Dayton Agreement to predict Aneks vii.. And then in this home, there's a million marks a year to bring back a million people. Anyone can give a stamp to come home. Well, then, in this home, you make a decision about borrowing half a billion marks to help this aneks vii., so you never take those funds. And finally bring us to the point where we accept a list that will stamp on the ethnic cleansing and segregation of BiH. You won't be able to do that with the SDA, for sure. The question is, are we even going to support the law like this? I'm thinking whether or not we should support him like this. This is one minimum I'm going to think about whether or not I'm going to support him.
ParlaMint-BA_2010-05-25-0.u35136	Replica, second vice president, Dr. Milorad Živković.
ParlaMint-BA_2010-05-25-0.u35137	While you at the SDA Club agree in the SDA whether or not you will support this today, my discussion and replica was not addressed to you from the SDA, but to those who supported this, firstly, that this Parliament and this commission are working according to Article 127. And secondly, who naively thought that when any legal project here in Parliament is going to pass on that it will be able to fix the amendments. They're being criticized. 30
ParlaMint-BA_2010-05-25-0.u35138	Dear Representative Momčilo Novaković, replica.
ParlaMint-BA_2010-05-25-0.u35139	Well, you see, if anyone thinks we're going to return refugees to the census, they're wrong. If someone thinks that the census law will increase the country's social gross product with any formulations, they're also very wrong. If someone thinks that the census law will define all other laws that define this area and that the government will form on the last list that this law will make it clear, they are also very wrong. I've been against this provision from the start. And she doesn't belong in this law. And at first I think that putting this provision should actually be some kind of alibi for someone who has failed to achieve politically so far. After all these discussions in the Commission on this issue, I must be honest that at one point I thought this made sense. I have to be honest that I realized today that this doesn't make sense. And I have to express my regret that my fellow citizens' census laws thought they could bring back 140,000 people. I personally think it would be a good idea to list all the refugees, so that we could write down all the diaspora and then make arguments to those who talk about the victims and the number of victims. But I'm fully aware that when we write it down, we'll have the same thing again. We'll have those people who create a social gross product in this country and those people who don't create a social product in this country, whether or not they're citizens for these or those reasons, whether they're the subject of a list or not. I congratulate my colleagues from the U.S.A., and I think they're on their way to solve it. What do they need 500 million when they're going to solve all this? I don't know what to charge for free 500 million when the list law will solve the issue of refugees and displaced people?
ParlaMint-BA_2010-05-25-0.u35140	Thank you. The next is First Vice-President Beriz Belkić.
ParlaMint-BA_2010-05-25-0.u35141	I'm really sorry, just enough people from the BiH Party have given us our position when it comes to an emergency procedure request. But after this debate and what I heard, this is about the party's position, not the individual attitude, I am increasingly convinced and I am fully convinced that we were right all along when we insisted and said: list yes, data only by EUROSTAT standards. Everything else takes us into confusion both in trouble and in less chance of passing the law.
ParlaMint-BA_2010-05-25-0.u35142	Thank you. No more logs, closing this item on the agenda. 31 We move to the fifth item of the agenda: Ad. 5. A request from the SDA's representative to consider the proposal for a law supplementing the Law on Service in the Armed Forces of BiH under a shortened procedure, in accordance with Article 126 of the Treaty on the Functioning of the European Union. Rules of Procedure The representatives of the SDA Law Club submitted the proposal 21. 5. In 2010, with a request to be considered under a shortened procedure. We're deciding on this request. I'm opening a motion hearing. Dear Representative Bakir Izetbegović.
ParlaMint-BA_2010-05-25-0.u35144	Well, I think it's urgent to resolve this issue, so it's a request under Article 126 that the matter be dealt with urgently. We have three elements, three segments that we intend to satisfy, three important issues that we intend to satisfy by adopting this law. The first, most important, retaining Bosnia, the rhythm of Bosnia, the pace that goes towards NATO's alliance, and it satisfies this law. Secondly, one human relationship with the people who participated in the war and who will now be out of work by applying the Armed Forces Act, the expiry of the contract under this law. That's different. And thirdly, the launch of the army, so recruiting, the renewal of the army, the new recruits. All three are achieved by this law without significantly burdening the budget. Because, to call it, the old army costs 3.9 million a year more than it was planned, because this army, among other things, is costing housing, since it does not serve in the local municipalities, it is burdened by these costs, and the old army has a little more salary in view of the past internship, so it will have to add only about 1.6 million marks this year, 2010, from the budget to solve this problem, here, so all three segments of this problem properly. So, please support the procedure, and then the content of the law itself.
ParlaMint-BA_2010-05-25-0.u35145	Thank you. No more reports, closing the hearing. We're going to the sixth item of the agenda: Ad. Six. Proposal for a Law on Copyright and Related Rights – Proposer: Council of Ministers of BiH (second reading) – Appointed Statement at 77th Session of House 32 At the 77th session, Dom adopted a conclusion delaying the vote on the Proposal for a Law on Copyright and Related Rights and returning to the Constitutional Legal Commission to agree until the next session of the House. The Constitutional Commission provided us with an amendment to the Law Proposal Report and decided to make it clear from the Commission's report of 29. 4. In 2010, he deleted Amendment XVIII. In the plenary phase of the amendment again, MP Jerko Ivanković Lijanović, four amendments, and I would ask MP Lijanović if he were here, if he stayed with his amendments, but since he was gone, I will not ask him. There is no debate on the bill today, because we ended it at the last session, but we are merely pleading on the bill's proposal. Moving to the 7th point of the established agenda: Ad. Seven. Proposal for a Law on collective exercise of copyright and related rights – Proposer: Council of Ministers of BiH (second reading) – Appointed at 77th session of the House
ParlaMint-BA_2010-05-25-0.u35148	Mr. Chairman, around these two laws there's been some dust in BiH, you all know it. There have been many amendments, and all amendments have been declared by the Council of Ministers. So here is not only the Institute of Intellectual Property but the Council of Ministers has declared all the amendments. And what has been accepted by the amendment, this is the result of the Council of Ministers' acceptance, and what is not accepted, is also the result of the Council of Ministers' proposal. Here's the director, she told us here about this pay phone, and we got 33 back on this committee last time just to get the transitional and final provisions sorted out. And they are now arranged the way it was proposed in the original text. And nothing else has changed. I ask the people who have submitted amendments to give up, to adopt these laws. This is not what BiH needs and what people are looking for in BiH, but it is a step forward in relation to the current situation, so in a year we will be redecorating. You don't have to wait eight, nine years to approach this issue. This is what it takes every year, this is a living problem. Many people are dissatisfied with solutions like this, but it's simply not possible to reach them now. Thank you.
ParlaMint-BA_2010-05-25-0.u35149	The second vice president also needs to speak.
ParlaMint-BA_2010-05-25-0.u35150	I do not want to debate, so I just want to ask Parliament, since I have proposed amandman IX, which was on the Constitutional Commission whose wish was to avoid giving monopoly to anyone in BiH. Have the four amendments that I have written and delivered to the Constitutional Commission been proposed for this purpose and is it possible to vote on them today? Here it is.
ParlaMint-BA_2010-05-25-0.u35151	The Honorable Chairman of the Constitutional Commission, Šefik Džaferović, answers the question.
ParlaMint-BA_2010-05-25-0.u35152	All the amendments that were here on the table last time are still on the table and are, of course, being handled by the Rules of Procedure. You know that, putting it to the vote, so there's no big philosophy. That's it, thank you.
ParlaMint-BA_2010-05-25-0.u35153	Thank you. Honorable representative. _________(?) [[no microphone turned on]] No need, thank you. Dear second vice president, Dr. Milorad Živković. 34
ParlaMint-BA_2010-05-25-0.u35155	I'm sorry, I wasn't on this committee. Have these four amendments that went to the compromise proposal been discussed? So, compared to Article 8, I delivered four amendments to the Constitutional Commission. I thought it was compromise amendments, because that was why the Constitutional Commission met to consider and find compromise proposals. I wonder if the Constitutional Commission has discussed these four amendments, this compromise proposal, and should they be discussed here and voted on today? Nothing more.
ParlaMint-BA_2010-05-25-0.u35156	The chairman of the Constitutional Commission, Šefik Džaferović, once again responds.
ParlaMint-BA_2010-05-25-0.u35157	No compromise amendments to the last amendments, from last session, have I accepted or discussed them at a session of this committee. So, from last session to today, everything that's been in the last session and it's in this session. The amendments are closed. There are no new amendments. If you wrote anything after last session until this session, it might be an attempt to suggest to the Constitutional Commission, I didn't have it on this committee. So, the situation remains, these are not amendments that will be voted on, but those that were in the last session.
ParlaMint-BA_2010-05-25-0.u35158	Dear Representative Momčilo Novaković.
ParlaMint-BA_2010-05-25-0.u35159	Well, I just gave up on the replica because I thought the chairman of the Constitutional Commission said one sentence by accident. Then I realized now that he didn't accidentally say that sentence, so I got up to replicate that it wasn't true that this committee met to determine the transitional and final provisions. That's not why a plea was postponed here, as he found the chairman of this committee. The Commission did, but it didn't meet. I haven't been to that Constitutional Commission session for some other reason, and it's the only session of any committee that I haven't been to in this session that I'm a member of. So, I wasn't at that session. We know well how the debate was going here, we know well why we brought all this back to the Constitutional Commission to find a solution to get the law back on track. And that's why we were supposed to meet at the Constitutional Commission, which is why those colleagues who met, not to change the transitional and final provisions.
ParlaMint-BA_2010-05-25-0.u35160	Ten minutes break at the SNSD Club's request. 35 [[PAUZA]] Ladies and gentlemen of the Parliament, please take your seats to proceed with the session. The second vice-president, Milorad Živković, will explain the reasons for the break.
ParlaMint-BA_2010-05-25-0.u35162	Thank you. In fact, I've discussed with my colleagues at the club why no compromise amendments have come to the Constitutional Commission's agenda. I was told that the Constitutional Commission felt it was not her mandate to do the review and compromise amendments. I thought this house had given jurisdiction to the Constitutional Commission to try to bring the text into line with the compromise amendments. And the reason why I think it is also the next item of the agenda, is also addressed to the Constitutional Commission for a request and this commission has found compromise amendments and this has been discussed. So there's been a misunderstanding and I think it was the mandate of the Constitutional Commission to look at new moments and try to bring the amendments that have passed, which came at that moment. Obviously, we didn't understand what the Constitutional Commission's mandate was. We have two exits, one is to vote on these amendments that are currently here and then vote on the law afterwards, or return to the Constitutional Legal Commission to comply with this possibility given by the House, in my opinion, and last time.
ParlaMint-BA_2010-05-25-0.u35163	Thank you. No more reports. This proposal, or these proposals, will be made at a time when we decide on these laws, on both laws. We won't separate them. I'm concluding a debate on this agenda point. I ask my distinguished colleague Živković to write these proposals of conclusions so that we can share them with the MPs and at the time of the statement we can make known about them. Moving to the 8th point of the agenda: Ad. 8. Proposal for a Law on Amendments and Supplements to the Law on Labour in the Institutions of Bosnia and Herzegovina – Proposer: Council of Ministers of BiH (Second Reading) – Appointed Statement at 77th Session of the House At the 77th session of the House, a conclusion has been adopted delaying a statement on the Bill's proposal for the 78th session of the House and enjoining the Constitutional Commission to analyse the contested Amendment XXIII in the spirit of the debate on 36 Proposal for a Law on Amendments and Supplements to the Law on Labour in BiH institutions. A constitutional committee in co-operation with the Justice Ministry is trying to find a compromise solution to solve the problem. The Constitutional Commission has provided us with an amendment to the Law Proposal Report, which states that this committee has agreed to the text of Amendment XXIII. Under the bill, there is no debate, but we only plead to it. One sentence, chairman of the Constitutional Commission.
ParlaMint-BA_2010-05-25-0.u35165	The important question is, we have discussed it many times in Parliament here, only two sentences. We agreed. So that's one sentence. And secondly, families employed in BiH institutions will receive equal treatment in the future, as is most favourable and prescribed by some level of government in BiH, second sentence, point. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-BA_2010-05-25-0.u35166	I thank you for the specifics and for the shorts. Moving to the 9th point of the agenda: Ad. Nine. Proposal for a Law on the Promotion of Small and Medium Enterprises and Entrepreneurship in BiH – Proposer: Council of Ministers of BiH (second reading) On the sequel to the 73rd session of the House, held on 23rd. 3. In 2010, this law was adopted in the first reading. The Joint Commission for Economic Reform and Development, the Report, submitted 21. 5. with nine amendments adopted that become an integral part of the law. In the plenary phase, MP Azra Hadžiahmetović again defends 35 amendments. I'm opening a debate on the draft law in the second reading. The Honorable First Vice-President, Mr. Beriz Belkić.
ParlaMint-BA_2010-05-25-0.u35168	Here, I will, under the authority of the amendment promoter, try a few sentences to explain this situation. So, on the one hand, you have a very short law, so to speak, and on the other hand you have a large number of very demanding amendments that are practically very important to change the law. We do not have any ambitions, nor do we expect that something special will happen to the amendments, although we would like to and for this we have repeated them. Namely, what is it and why have we done this? And when we come with a hard time to the consensus that some area or some question should be regulated at the state level, then solutions that go 37 of this trail, trying to reach compromises, etc., are below the level of need, below the level of need. I read very carefully, unfortunately I wasn't, and a transcript of the public debate. From it comes that such a bill received support for the simple reason that it was no longer possible to agree. So, we now have a practically proposed law that is in the gauges of the current RS government, i.e. the resolution ministries and resolution authorities dealing with these matters. So we have a solution that's up to that level. All over it, it's probably not going to be supported. However, these amendments, we believe, do not cause harm to anyone, nor harm anyone in particular, nor are they centralised, but simply give this area a serious approach. We are also disappointed with the European Commission's approach, that is, those who promote and require us to regulate and call for directives and call for short-term priorities and others. When it comes to a solution, these compromises, etc., they do not persist in their standards that they otherwise advocate. And so we come to a law that doesn't fully match its purpose. And I've been obliged to warn you, and we can discuss these amendments and enter the package if necessary. We generally understand that we need this law and we won't be against the law, but I really tried to point to one practice. This is indeed a very concrete example where we have missed an opportunity and we as a party will persist, of course, whether in this term or next, we insist that this area be done more complexly. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-BA_2010-05-25-0.u35169	Thank you. I'm closing the debate. Moving to the 10th point of the agenda: Ad. Ten. Proposal for a Law on Amendments and Supplements to the Act on the Protection of Secret Information – Proposer: Council of Ministers of BiH, with Report of the Joint Committee on Oversight over the work of the BiH Intelligence and Security Agency At the 73rd session of the House, held on 23rd. 3., this law was adopted in the first reading. The Joint Committee in charge of surveillance of the work of the Intelligence and Security Agency has delivered the report 21. And it didn't support the text of the law. Today, in accordance with Article 112, we decide on the Report, so if we accept it, the proposed law has been rejected. If we do not accept it, it will return to this commission to draw up a new report. I'm opening a debate on the Joint Committee's report. There are no reports, I'm closing the hearing. We're going to the 11th point: 38 Ad. 11. Proposal for a Law amending and supplementing the Law on Service in the Armed Forces of BiH – Proposer: Representative Niko Lozančić, with Report of the Joint Defence and Security Commission on BiH
ParlaMint-BA_2010-05-25-0.u35173	So, the SDP MPs' club proposed 'The Law on Amendments and Supplements to the Criminal Law of BiH'. The essence of the SDP Club proposal is that we regulate certain issues that are similar or almost identical in other European countries. That is why we propose that in this criminal law, that is, in these amendments and additions, we introduce a provision that anyone who publicly invites or otherwise directs a message to the public whose aim is to secede part of BiH's territory or to attach it to another state to criminally sanction it. Also, we propose a supplement that concerns the threat of state independence, therefore, in this section that says that every person who brings BiH into a position of subordination or addiction to another country is also criminally suited. And the third thing that is regulated by this criminal law, and very important and current, is the question of insulting the state and its symbols. Given that this is also a topic of date, it would be quite appropriate to specify that the Criminal Law is complemented by a provision within the Criminal Law which reads: 'Whoever takes down, destroys, damages or makes unusable or otherwise insults the 39 publicly exposed flag of BiH, will be punished by a prison sentence', as stated in this Bill proposal. I remind you, in light of this SDP Club proposal, that almost all European countries have addressed this issue in a certain way. In Germany, for example, there are much more rigorous provisions for these things and much more severe penalties for insulting the color of the flag, coat of arms or anthem of the Federal Republic of Germany etc., etc. In Latvia it is also a criminal offence, also Article 151 in the Republic of Croatia. The criminal law of the Republic of Croatia says: 'Whoever publicly casts out the mockery, contempt or rude demeaning of the Republic of Croatia and its flag, coat of arms, anthem, etc., will be punished by a sentence of three months to three years'. A similar provision exists in the Criminal Law of the Republic of Serbia and now, in order not to quote and quote all these provisions in other countries, and respecting the fact that the Constitutional Commission has also supported this bill, we from the SDP Club are calling on today's House of Representatives to accept this law in the first reading, and possibly if there is any need for any further additions or amendments to this proposal, we also leave at the amendment stage the possibility to submit amendments and act in the second phase.
ParlaMint-BA_2010-05-25-0.u35174	Thank you. No more reports, closing the hearing. Moving to the 13th point of the agenda: Ad. 13. Proposal for a revised Bosnia and Herzegovina strategy for the implementation of Annex VII Dayton Peace Agreement – Proposer: Council of Ministers of BiH (second reading) At the 73rd session, the House of Representatives adopted the proposal for a revised strategy in the first reading. The responsible Joint Committee for Human Rights, the rights of the child, youth, immigration, refugee, asylum and ethics has delivered the Report 19. The 5th supported you. I am opening a debate on the proposal for a revised strategy. Dear First Vice-President, Mr. Beriz Belkić.
ParlaMint-BA_2010-05-25-0.u35176	I'm not really in a position to say anything that's not familiar with this home, and I have no intention of reminding myself of history, nor the fact that here we have defined ourselves to go two-phase, even though we had no previous practice when it comes to such strategies, or such documents. I would also like to ask the MPs not to miss the opportunity for this document, which is extremely important in our mandate, and it is of general nature and general interest, however, to find the strength and to adopt it. 40
ParlaMint-BA_2010-05-25-0.u35177	Thank you. No more reports, closing the hearing. Moving to point 14 Ad. 14. Proposal for a strategy for development of sports in BiH – Proposer: Council of Ministers of BiH (second reading) The 74th House session supports the proposal for a strategy, with the conclusion that the Constitutional Commission organises a public debate, and that it submits a report to the House for the final adoption of the Sports Development Strategy in BiH. The Constitutional Commission held a public debate, and 10. 5. Report with one amendment adopted. You also received a transcript of the public hearing with this report. I'm opening a debate on the strategy proposal. There are no reports, I'm closing the hearing. Moving to point 15, Ad. 15. Report by the College Committee on the Effort of Consent to the Proposal for a Law on Amendments and Supplements to the Law on the conduct of a judicial examination in Bosnia and Herzegovina (first reading)
ParlaMint-BA_2010-05-25-0.u35182	Thank you, Mr. Chairman. Well, there were a number of confusions around this agenda point when we had on the Commission, for a number of reasons. We were supposed to discuss the Management Board's report, and we got management. So we were completely in college, we didn't know what to do, we actually knew later. And we delayed that agenda point, we couldn't refuse to accept this report without the promoter or the composer of this report. I suggest one possibility for you, if possible, to postpone this point and put an end to it because this chairman of the Management Board should arrive, he's already on his way from somewhere, so let him contact Parliament, if you allow him to say what's there. And there's a lot of stuff there. Everyone's looking for the money around the export, the ones who got no one to pay back, and we want the export, we want anything. And there's really this director, who's the Agency's director there now, trying to do it, and here's some slight trend around exports, but there's an even stronger trend, give money, that someone can guarantee it, and there's no money. Well, I don't know 42 at all how to treat this report: refuse it, accept it, wait for it, but I don't know what he's going to tell us. Because we invited him to this committee, and it was nice to write: he was a composer of the board of directors of this agency, not director and management, he was gone. What could we have done? So you at the College decide what to do with this agenda point, we were not in the Commission's position to make a decision. Thank you.
ParlaMint-BA_2010-05-25-0.u35183	Replica, First Vice-President, Mr. Beriz Belkić.
ParlaMint-BA_2010-05-25-0.u35184	It's not a replica, Slavko, in the classic sense of the word but there's an illogicality here in what you said. You said there was a lot of stuff there, right, but I see you practically unanimously adopted this report as a commission. And there's something wrong with that, all you had was a "restraint" voice. So, you supported most likely, not this is not your "sustained", you voted "yes," and you say there's a lot of things.
ParlaMint-BA_2010-05-25-0.u35185	Replica, distinguished representative Slavko Jovičić.
ParlaMint-BA_2010-05-25-0.u35186	Thank you very much, Mr. Deputy. You've helped me well now and given me cream. Why did I vote? Let's not make a fuss out there and let you decide what's gonna happen to this. So that it may not be a laugh on this committee, for it is a general laugh everywhere, let the colleagues today take the opportunity to laugh for granted. Well, gentlemen, in order for this commission not to take the right to make it and to be in the role of the arbiter, please, gentlemen, Parliament has the greatest power, take responsibility. The commission supported it, and you see what it supported there unanimously. I wish that voice hadn’t been “sustained ” either. Man didn't know what he was going to vote for, so "sustained", let's go about it. Now, in order to stop it from happening in front of the commission, let's get them in, and let them fight, and they don't know what and what, we find a compromise solution, because we've been a little smarter, not from Parliament, but from those who have suggested, so let's say let's fight this out and get the House of Representatives to have some fun. There you go.
ParlaMint-BA_2010-05-25-0.u35187	Replica, distinguished representative Adem Huskić.
ParlaMint-BA_2010-05-25-0.u35188	Thank you, Mr. Chairman. My replica... as Mr. Belkić said. I thought I'd really support this and that this would go away without any debate. And now watch who opens this debate here and relativizes this report: whoever signed it. And I... if we're not going to adopt him, I suggest we get this commission back on track, let him discuss it and get us a report. 43
ParlaMint-BA_2010-05-25-0.u35189	Thank you. The next is Honourable representative Željko Kuzmanović.
ParlaMint-BA_2010-05-25-0.u35190	Thank you, Mr. Chairman. I was restrained if you were already asking who he was, he wasn't Slavko Jovičić. Well, I don't know now if it makes sense to argue, so the board members haven't arrived again. As far as I've heard from the secretary of this committee, they're on their way... However, there is indeed a need for the presence of board members here, given that this report is, at the very least, discriminatory. And the data in this report is worth commenting on. So I don't know now, if you think we should continue the discussion, I'll continue to discuss without the board's presence. If you feel you need to return to the Commission, I will also accept that opinion, because it is indeed... how the Kolegijum decides.
ParlaMint-BA_2010-05-25-0.u35191	So, if someone wants this report back to the Committee or any other kind of statement on this report, let them submit a written proposal and in the time of the statement on this agenda point we'll make a statement about it. And if no one delivers, we will plead exclusively to what we have.
ParlaMint-BA_2010-05-25-0.u35192	No microphone turned on
ParlaMint-BA_2010-05-25-0.u35193	It doesn't matter, it doesn't matter. [[/Collegiate consent.]] We have a compromise proposal... The House College: it means that today this report is not being discussed, that it should be returned to the Commission, that an updated report on this report should be provided with an updated discussion. Here, we'll give it to you at a time when we make a statement about this item on the agenda. Thank you. I'm closing this agenda. We're going to the 18th point, Ad. 18. Report on the Protection of Personal Data in Bosnia and Herzegovina 44
ParlaMint-BA_2010-05-25-0.u35199	No, it's not from the RS, this is 126.
ParlaMint-BA_2010-05-25-0.u35200	Excuse me, excuse me. So, an insufficient entity majority. There's no consent. We approach the plea in the second round. Vote now! With 14 votes "yes", 16 "against", one "abstained", two branches from the RS entity "against", I find that neither this request has been accepted and the bill will be discussed in regular procedure. We approach the statement of point 5. A request from the SDA Club for the examination of the proposal for a law supplementing the Service Act in the Armed Forces of Bosnia and Herzegovina under a shortened procedure, in accordance with Article 126. Rules of Procedure, please prepare yourselves. Vote now! With 31 votes "yes", without votes "against", two "abstained", I find the request accepted. Accessing the declaration of point 6. Proposal for a Law on Copyright and Related Rights – Proposer: Council of Ministers of BiH (second reading) – a delayed statement at the 77th session of the House. So we have about this point and the next point 7. Proposal for a law on collective exercise of copyright and related rights – Proposer: Council of Ministers of BiH (second reading) – a delayed statement at the 77th session of the House, a proposal for one conclusion, which reads: 'The Constitutional Commission is in charge of the laws under point 6. Proposal for a law on copyright and related rights and 7. The proposal for a law on collective implementation of copyright and related 47 rights is reconsidered in the direction of seeking compromise solutions, in line with the debate held at the 77th and 78th sessions of the House." I'm putting this conclusion to the statement.
ParlaMint-BA_2010-05-25-0.u35201	I have one question.
ParlaMint-BA_2010-05-25-0.u35202	So let's hear it.
ParlaMint-BA_2010-05-25-0.u35203	The dilemma is about this finding compromise solutions. Does this mean that other MPs can act in the direction of seeking compromise solutions or just what has been done so far?
ParlaMint-BA_2010-05-25-0.u35204	If you ask me, I understand that all these issues that have been mentioned so far in the debate, so all MPs can deliver in writing to the Constitutional Commission what is mentioned in the debate.
ParlaMint-BA_2010-05-25-0.u35205	Okay. Okay.
ParlaMint-BA_2010-05-25-0.u35206	We're clear. We approach a statement on the proposal for a conclusion. Vote now! With 29 votes "yes", one "against", three "abstained", enough entity majority, I agree that we have accepted this conclusion concerning point 6 and point 7. We move on to the declaration of point 8. Proposal for a Law on Amendments and Supplements to the Law on Labour in the Institutions of Bosnia and Herzegovina – Proposer of the Council of Ministers of BiH (second reading) – a delayed statement at the 77th session of the House. We're voting on the bill's proposal in the second reading. Prepare to vote. Vote now! 23 votes "yes", without the vote "against", 10 "abstained", an insufficient entity majority. You will be informed of the results of the alignment. 48 We approach the statement of point 9. Proposal for a law on the promotion of small and medium-sized enterprises and entrepreneurship in BiH – Proposer of the Council of Ministers of BiH (second reading). We have 35 amendments to the distinguished representatives of Azra Hadžiahmetović, who today, under the authority, represents the prominent first deputy president, Beriz Belkić, who agreed to declare the amendments in the package. Please prepare to make a statement on the amendments. Vote now! 15 votes "yes", nine "against", six "abstained", an insufficient entity majority. We are voting in the second round on the amendment proposal. Vote now! With 16 votes "for", seven "against four" abstentions (no two-thirds of the votes "against"), I find the amendments accepted. We approach the statement on the bill with the amendments adopted. Please prepare. You're voting now. 19 votes "yes", eight "against", four "abstained", an insufficient entity majority. You will be informed of the compliance results within three days. We approach the statement of point 10. Proposal for a Law on Amendments and Supplements to the Act on the Protection of Secret Information – Proposed by the Council of Ministers of BiH, with the Joint Committee on Oversight over the work of the BiH Intelligence and Security Agency. We're voting on the Joint Committee's report. If we accept the Report, this law has been rejected; if we reject it, we return it to the Joint Committee. Prepare to vote. Vote now! With 10 votes "yes", 19 "against", two "abstained", I find that the report is not accepted and is returning to the competent commission. We approach the statement on point 11. Proposal for a Law on Amendments and Supplements to the Law on Service in the Armed Forces of BiH – Proposer of Representative Niko Lozančić, with the Report of the Joint Defence and Security Commission of BiH. It's the same situation as the last one.
ParlaMint-BA_2010-05-25-0.u35207	No microphone turned on
ParlaMint-BA_2010-05-25-0.u35208	What? 49
ParlaMint-BA_2010-05-25-0.u35209	No microphone turned on
ParlaMint-BA_2010-05-25-0.u35210	Here you go, business.
ParlaMint-BA_2010-05-25-0.u35211	I have a question. It's unclear to me. Now he had two of the same laws in the procedure. We accepted the procedure under article 126 of Mr Izetbegović. [[Common discussion]] Congratulations.
ParlaMint-BA_2010-05-25-0.u35213	We reiterate the vote on the report on point 11. Vote now! With 24 votes "yes", eight "against", without "abstained", enough entity majority, I find that the report has been accepted and that this law has been rejected. Moving to point 12. Proposal for a Law on Amendments and Supplements to the Penal Code of Bosnia and Herzegovina – Proposers: Representatives of the SDP Club (first reading). We're voting on the bill's proposal in the first reading. Please prepare yourselves. Vote now! 22 votes "yes", eight "against", one "abstained", an insufficient entity majority. We vote in the second round. Prepare to vote. Vote now! With 22 votes "yes", nine "against", one "abstained" (no two-thirds of the votes "against" any entity), I find that the bill was adopted in the first reading. Moving to point 13. Proposal for a revised Bosnia and Herzegovina strategy for the implementation of Annex VII Dayton Peace Agreement – Proposer: Council of Ministers of BiH (second reading). Please prepare yourselves. We are voting on the adoption of the proposal for a revised strategy. Vote now! 22 votes "yes", without the vote "against", 10 "abstained", an insufficient entity majority. 50 There is no agreement in the College and you will be informed of the results of the alignment within three days. Approaching point 14. Proposal for a strategy for sports development in Bosnia and Herzegovina – Proposer: Council of Ministers of BiH (second reading). Prepare to vote. We are voting on the adoption of a proposal for a strategy for development of sports in BiH. Vote now! With 29 votes "yes", without the vote "against", three "abstained", enough entity majority, I find that the proposal for a strategy for developing sports in BiH has been adopted. Point 15. Report by the College Committee on the Effort of Consent on the Proposal for a Law on Amendments and Supplements to the Law on the conduct of a judicial examination in Bosnia and Herzegovina (first reading). We're voting in the second round on the bill. Vote now! 22 votes "yes", nine "against", one "abstained", a sufficient entity majority, i.e. we don't have two-thirds of the votes "against" of any entity, and I agree that the bill has been adopted. We postponed the debate on point 16. We approach the statement on point 17. Report on the work of the BiH Export and Credit Export Agency 2009 – a delayed debate at the 77th session. Here we have a proposal for a conclusion of the College of the House: 'The debate on the report on the work of the BiH Export and Credit Agency's 2009 Management Board is being postponed and the Commission for Foreign Trade and Customs is tasked with reviewing this issue and delivering a new report.' Please prepare to vote on the conclusion. Vote now! With 29 votes "yes", without the vote "against", two "abstained", enough entity majority, the conclusion was accepted. We approach the declaration of point 18. A report on the protection of personal data in Bosnia and Herzegovina. We're voting for adoption of the report. Please prepare yourselves. Vote now! With 28 votes "yes", one vote "against", two "abstained", enough entity majority, I find the report adopted. 51 We approach the statement of point 19. The 2009 State Investigation and Protection Agency (SIPA) report, with an indication of certain issues. We're voting for adoption of the report. Please prepare yourselves. Vote now! 16 votes "yes", eight "against", six "abstained", an insufficient entity majority. Round two, we approach the plea in the second round. Vote now! With 17 votes "yes", 10 "against", three "abstained", enough entity majority, I find the report accepted. We approach the statement on point 20. Granting consent for ratification from a) to d). I suggest we say, firstly, that we vote in a package on all these agreements. Please prepare yourselves. Vote now! With 28 votes "yes", two "against", without "abstained" votes, with enough entity majority, I agree that we have chosen to vote in a package on granting approval for ratification. We're accessing a statement on the agreements. Vote now! With 28 votes "yes", two "against", two "abstained", enough entity majority, I agree that we have given consent to ratifying according to points (a) to (d). I would like to remind you that the 79th session of the House of Representatives is scheduled for 16. Six. 2010 Thank you very much. I'm finishing the 78th session. The seat is closed at 3:05 p.m.
