ParlaMint-BA_2010-02-23-0.u7091	Ladies and gentlemen, honored colleagues and fellow delegates, present representatives of the Council of Ministers and the international community, respected media representatives, I warmly welcome you and open the 43rd session of the House of Peoples of the Parliamentary Assembly of Bosnia and Herzegovina. First of all, I apologize for the delay, and Mr Ljubić and I were at a meeting of the leaders of the Federation's parliamentary majority with the World Bank, so that's why we were late. Today's session is attended by 13 delegates, five from Bosniak, four from the Croatian and four from the Serb people. gospoda Filipović and Ivanić are justifiably absent. For the 43rd session, I propose the next amended 1. Answers to delegates' questions and delegates' questions; 2. The adoption of the minutes of the 42nd session of the House of Peoples; 3. Proposal for a law on tobacco in Bosnia and Herzegovina (second reading) – Proposer of the Council of Ministers of BiH; 4. Proposal for a Law on Amendments and Supplements to the Customs Tariff Act of Bosnia and Herzegovina (second reading) – Proposer of the Council of Ministers of BiH; 5. Proposal for a law on the protection of new varieties of plants in Bosnia and Herzegovina (second reading) – Proposer of the Council of Ministers of BiH; 6. Proposal for a Law on Working Time, Mandatory Holidays of Mobile Workers and Road Transport Recording Devices (first reading) – Proposer of the Council of Ministers; 7. Proposal for a Law amending the Law on Classification of Activities in Bosnia and Herzegovina (first reading) – Proposer of the Council of Ministers of BiH; 8. Proposal for a Law on Amendments and Supplements to the Law on the Public Television System of Bosnia and Herzegovina (first reading) – Proposer of the Council of Ministers of BiH; 9. Proposal for a Law on Amendments and Supplements to the Law on the Public Television Service of Bosnia and Herzegovina (first reading) – Proposer of the Council of Ministers of BiH; 10. Proposal for a Law on Amendments and Supplements to the Communication Act (first reading) – Proposer of the Council of Ministers of BiH; 11. Proposal for a Law on Copyright and Related Rights (First Reading) – Proposer of the Council of Ministers of BiH; 2 12. Proposal for a Law on collective exercise of copyright and related rights (first reading) – Proposer of the Council of Ministers of BiH; 13. Proposal for a Law on Amendments and Supplements to the Law on the Fundamentals of Traffic Safety on Roads in Bosnia and Herzegovina (first reading) – Proposer of the Council of Ministers of BiH; 14. Consideration of the Annual Information and Security Policy Platform, with the opinion of the Joint Commission on Oversight of the work of Bosnia and Herzegovina's Intelligence and Security Agency – Proposer of the BiH Presidency; 15. Consideration of the conclusion of the Joint Commission on Human Rights, the rights of the child, young people, immigration, refugees, asylum and ethics, adopted at the 18th session of the Joint Commission, held 5. 2. 2009; 16. Selection of three members of the Management Board of the Agency for the Development of Higher Education and Quality Insurance for a period of three years (proposed a single ranking list of candidates of the Interim Joint Commission of both homes of the Parliamentary Assembly of BiH); 17. The appointment of three members from the House of Peoples of the Parliamentary Assembly of BiH to the Commission for the selection and monitoring of the Agency's work on the prevention of corruption and coordination of the fight against corruption; 18. Giving consent to ratification of the Agreement between the BiH Ministry of Foreign Affairs and the Federal Ministry of European and International Affairs of the Republic of Austria on Development Co-operation; 19. Giving consent to the ratification of the loan agreement for the Construction of a gas desumporation facility for the Ugljevik thermal power plant between the Japanese International Co-operation Agency and Bosnia and Herzegovina; 20. Giving consent to the ratification of the Loan and Project Treaty between KfW, Frankfurt in May, Bosnia and Herzegovina and the Republic of Serbia and the City of Banja Luka – Water supply and sewerage in the city of Banja Luka (component 1 water supply); 21. Giving consent to ratification of the Funding and Project Agreement between KfW, Frankufrt in Maine, Bosnia and Herzegovina and the Republic of Serbia and the City of Banja Luka – City Water Supply and Waste Water Management System in the city of Banja Luka (component 2 wastewater disposal systems); 22. Giving consent to the ratification of the loan agreement between Bosnia and Herzegovina, represented by the BiH Ministry of Finance and Treasury, and the Hungarian Export and Import Bank for the project Waste Water Treatment in Tuzla Municipality; 23. Giving consent to the ratification of the Agreement between Bosnia and Herzegovina and the Czech Republic on the avoidance of double taxation and the prevention of tax evasion in relation to income and property taxes; 24. Giving consent to the ratification of the Agreement between the Council of Ministers of BiH and the Government of the Federative Republic of Brazil on visa waiver for holders of diplomatic, official or official passports; 25. Giving consent to ratifying the amendments to the 1997 Constitution of the International Labour Organisation. Since the Commission for Finance and Budget has not considered the Proposal for a Law on Amendments and Supplements to the Law on Public Procurement, second reading, whose proposal is the House of Representatives, this item has been removed from the agenda that you have received. 3 This is the established agenda of the House of the Peoples. Is anyone answering for a word? Mr. Rančić.
ParlaMint-BA_2010-02-23-0.u7093	Thank you very much. Dear Chairman, honourable colleagues and colleagues, members of the Council of Ministers, representatives of the media, ladies and gentlemen, I propose that point 17, as you have read, chaired, 'Appointment of three members from the House of Peoples of the Parliamentary Assembly of BiH in the Commission for the Selection and Monitoring of the Agency for the Prevention of Corruption and Co-ordination of the Fight against Corruption', is changed in a way that this point reads: 'Appointment of three members from the House of Peoples of the Parliamentary Assembly of BiH in the Ad hoc Commission to conduct a procedure for selecting the Commission to select and monitor the work of the Agency for the Prevention of Corruption and Co-ordination of the fight against corruption'. Why am I suggesting this? The law on the Anti-Corruption Prevention and Co-ordination Agency, which we have recently adopted (it was published in the "Official Messenger of BiH", number 103/09), is prescribed in article 17 that the Agency's Commission for the Selection and Monitoring of Work, which has nine members, three representatives from the House of Representatives, three representatives from the House of Peoples, two representatives of the academic community and one representative of the NGO, appoints the Parliamentary Assembly of BiH. I believe that the House of Representatives, who has appointed three members from the House of Representatives, has made a mistake. In order to implement this law, which is one of the conditions for visa liberalisation, it is necessary to appoint this ad hoc commission to implement the procedure and to reach all nine members, three from the House of Peoples, three from the House of Peoples and three external members (two from the academic community and one from the non-governmental sector) and such nine members to propose to be appointed both by the House of Representatives and the House of Peoples, which is in accordance with Article 17 (2) of the Law cited because the Parliamentary Assembly is in charge of their appointment, not a single home of its three members, the second home of its three members. How do we get to three external members? And it is envisaged that the entire Parliamentary Assembly appoints, not that the homes are separately named by three of their members. If we had formed the Ad hoc commission in this way, it would have implemented this procedure and would have led to this commission, and after choosing this commission it was again authorised to carry out the procedure for the appointment of the director to be appointed again by the Parliamentary Assembly of BiH on their proposal. So I suggest, therefore, that the House of Representatives was wrong, that we appoint three members to the Ad hoc commission to do the same and to carry out these procedures and we will only apply this law. If we do it as a House of Representatives, I think we'll make a mistake and we won't get to this committee, and then it slows down and delays the application of this law and the selection of directors and the establishment of the Agency. Thank you.
ParlaMint-BA_2010-02-23-0.u7094	Thank you very much. Mrs. Majkić called. 4
ParlaMint-BA_2010-02-23-0.u7095	Dear colleagues, respected members of the Council of Ministers, honored guests, I would like to comment on what Mr. Rančić said. So we had this in mind at the College of the House of Nations, but then we were past from the House of Representatives, so they made a decision to form three members from the House of Representatives, and then it required us to complete that obligation. Tomorrow, at a session of the Joint College of both homes, we will agree on criteria and ways of selecting three outside members. So we're left with one more question to deal with. I agree with you that it would be good if everything was prepared and that we could finish today, but today the only thing we can do is select three members from the House of Nations, and tomorrow, at the Joint College, we can agree on the selection criteria for the remaining three members.
ParlaMint-BA_2010-02-23-0.u7096	Mr. Rančić. Here you go.
ParlaMint-BA_2010-02-23-0.u7097	I would accept all this, but this is not the way we are going to implement this law in the section that prescribes how the Commission is elected to elect and monitor the Agency's work. The Eksplicite say the commission is appointed by the BiH Parliamentary Assembly. Just because the predstavnički of Representatives chose its three members doesn't mean anything. And these three members, and our three members, and three external members as one commission should be appointed Parliamentary Assembly, which means one home and another home. The fact that they chose their three members doesn't mean anything. They have not fulfilled their obligation and have not contributed to the implementation of this law and the formation of this commission. So we can do the same thing, name three members, but have we fulfilled our obligation under the law? We didn't. Are we gonna get to this committee? We won't. The way is to build an Ad hoc commission that will do all this together, and then when we do that, we go to Parliament to appoint Parliament. That's what this law is all about.
ParlaMint-BA_2010-02-23-0.u7098	Is anyone else answering for word? You see, we've predicted this tomorrow at the Joint College, so maybe it's best if we take this point off the agenda and set this whole thing up at the Joint College, if that's okay with you. We agree here at the College. Mr. Branko Zrno. Here you go.
ParlaMint-BA_2010-02-23-0.u7099	Mr. Chairman, colleagues and colleagues, everyone else, I thought a third step could be dealt with. This proposal, Mrs. Majkić, is absolutely an event for me. His work at home was done by the House of Representatives, we will do our job at our home level. Tomorrow, the Joint College will establish, or at one of the next sessions, a list of three candidates left, and then both homes will declare a complete list of nine candidates. And there's no reason 5 to take this agenda off. In this way, we will also meet the criteria legally spoken of by our colleague Rančić.
ParlaMint-BA_2010-02-23-0.u7100	Okay. Here, Mr. Rančić, what do you say? All right, is it?
ParlaMint-BA_2010-02-23-0.u7101	/no microphone turned on/
ParlaMint-BA_2010-02-23-0.u7102	Okay, look, then the agenda stays as proposed. Moving to the 1st point of the agenda: Ad. 1. Answers to Legislative Questions and Delegative Questions Answers to the delegate's questions were received: delegate Ivo Miro Jović, asked at the 39th session and asked at the 40th session; delegate Hazim Rančić, asked at the 39th session and the 42nd session; delegate Dušanka Majkić, asked at the 40th and 42nd session; delegate Drago Ljubić, asked at the 42nd session; Sulejman Tihić, asked at the 40th session; Zoran Koprivica, asked at the 40th session; delegate Božo Ljubić, asked at the 39th session; delegate Slobodan Šaraba, asked at the 42nd session. Are the delegates satisfied with the answer, yes or no? Miro Jović. Here you go. Ivo Miro
ParlaMint-BA_2010-02-23-0.u7104	Thank you very much. I welcome you, Mr. President, co-chair, distinguished fellow envoys and all present today to this session of ours. I got an answer from the Central Election Commission. There was a violation of the Constitution in the Municipality of Gradac, where the chairman of the Municipal Council and the head of the municipality came from the same people. And the answer didn't come just from the Central Election Commission saying that... in its rules, they don't have a way of choosing and selecting the chairman of the Municipal Council. However, I also asked the Federation Constitutional Court, which was to be shown to violate the 6th Constitution, Article 54. The Federation of BiH that treats the problem. I'm hoping whoever's responsible for this question will send an answer.
ParlaMint-BA_2010-02-23-0.u7105	Hazim Rančić for two questions, three questions, four questions.
ParlaMint-BA_2010-02-23-0.u7106	There are two questions, and there are more answers, so I'll comment. So, first question; the answer is to take measures and actions and to draw up a strategy by the Council of Ministers on modalities, ways to resolve old foreign exchange savings with the Ljubljanska Banka, Invest Banka and other non-domestic banks, and which were also required under this 2006 law, according to the 2006 Constitutional Court, and the Council of Ministers' Conclusion of 24. Seven. In 2008. So here's the fourth year running, the Council of Ministers hasn't done anything, unfortunately nothing has done about it. They got a little confused here. The answer to this question is I received in the last session and it is also in this minutes, and you can see in a stenogram where I have declared that I am not satisfied with the answer and where I have asked that... (they have informed me that they have finally made this strategy) to deliver to me this strategy on the moderation of how they will protect our citizens and regarding foreign exchange savings in non-domestic banks and to write to me with the strategy what measures they have taken so far. And it stands in this record from last session. However, after last session, they deliver two answers to me. One found at the 113st session, from 21 January 2010, and one response at the 115st session, from 18. 2. 2010 The Council of Ministers, the Resort Ministry, and here is the Secretary-General – few of them were confused. I don't know how it came to have two answers to two sessions. And last time I got this, so this answer, that is, these two answers that I got today -- I already made my point last time, and here I am again confirming that I am looking for this strategy and the measures they have taken from that strategy. The second answer concerned questions: "Will all remaining conditions of the Roadmap for visa liberalisation be met before the European Commission's expert missions visit?" I also asked the Council of Ministers, and the SIPAs, and the Ministry of Civil Affairs, and the Directorate for Direct Taxation, the Service for Foreigners, the Ministry of Security and the Border Police. This response is incomplete (and independent committee) because part of the answer I received from the Independent Committee, from the Ministry of Security and from the Border Police. It is clear from the analysis of meeting the requirements of the Roadmap that all these institutions that I have counted have their exact tasks that they need to fulfil and that is why I and the question have been addressed to them. The answer was delivered by three, the Ministry of Security, the Border Police and the Independent Committee, while SIPA, the Ministry of Civil Affairs, the Council of Ministers, the Directorate for Direct Taxation and the Foreign Affairs Service provided their reply. So the answer is incomplete and I ask that the other institutions also deliver their answers. My intention was to use these remaining 20 days that, when I asked the question before the expert missions came, and to use what was not possibly done and what could be done in those 20 days to do. 7 So, in principle, I demand that they deliver an answer, although I suppose that the evaluations of the expert missions will probably be before I get an answer at the next session of our home, so that's also my question that I will have at our plenary session tomorrow. That's it, thank you very much.
ParlaMint-BA_2010-02-23-0.u7107	Thank you very much. Mrs. Dušanka Majkić.
ParlaMint-BA_2010-02-23-0.u7108	Dear colleagues, therefore, I asked one question and I gave one initiative. What to say for the answer to the asked question: that I am not satisfied, not with the answer, but with what was done by the Missing Persons Institute, because it is clear from this answer that everything that was done for the last period of time to find Serbian civilians and soldiers comes from the time that the Office for Missing Persons of Republika Srpska worked and that the Institute of Origin means from 1. 1. In 2008, he practically didn't do anything on that plan. Well, according to that, I'm unhappy, not with what's been answered, because it actually says, but I'm unhappy with what's been done so far. The second thing is about the initiative, and this is to provide a professional service with an answer to the question: "How many are the outstanding delegate issues since the start of the term of office?" I thank the professional service, she did her job. And as you probably had a chance to see, there were about 40 outstanding questions left: Slobodan Šaraba (ten), Dušanka Majkić (eight), Ivo Miro Jović (five), Hazim Rančić (four), Rudo Vidović (three) – I apologize to the minister, but he became minister and did not answer all questions – Adem Ibrahimpašić (two), Mladen Ivanić (two), Hilmo Neimarli (two), Alma Čolo (two), Božo Rajić (one), Zoran Koprivica (one), Branko Zrno (one), Božo Ljubić (one), and Drago Ljubičić (one). This condition I'm telling you is a state of 19. 2. So, the situation is that we haven't received 40 answers from a different period since they date which is not good, and I really think that according to this, I propose to the House the next initiative, which is that I ask that, in front of the professional service of the People's House, emergencyes be sent to institutions that haven't answered the delegate questions and I ask that the answer to the questions asked be delivered no later than 15 days. So, all these answers that you didn't send, all these questions that didn't get answers to be delivered within 15 days. Thank you.
ParlaMint-BA_2010-02-23-0.u7109	Thank you very much. Mr. Drago Ljubičić.
ParlaMint-BA_2010-02-23-0.u7110	I thank you, Mr. Chairman. My colleagues and fellow members of the House of Peoples, gentlemen of the Council of Ministers, distinguished guests, as regards the response I received from the Institute for 8 missing persons to my asked question at the 42nd session, which was asked on January 21st 2010, I am satisfied only with the deadline in which I received the answer to my asked question. And as for the answer itself, I am not satisfied, and I will give my explanation as to why I am not satisfied. The last line in this answer, which I received, sounds very nice, I won't read it; if you have an answer, then you can see it in front of you. However, the data related to this issue, which is related to the work of the Institute and other institutions dealing with this business, which my delegate question is asked, are quite like these, and they are next. In part, Mrs Dušanka commented because this question, too, is, here in a certain way, related to and part of her question, so allow me a little bit. Up to 1. 1. In 2008, until when there was a Office for Missing Persons of the RS, the fate of 3,500 people from the RS was resolved. The RS is still searching for 1,772 of its citizens. In the memorial skeletons found in Banja Luka, eastern Sarajevo, Nevesinj, there are 634 unidentified bodies on which an autopsy was performed, complete court-medical documentation was drawn up, DNA samples taken and profiles removed, and on the other hand for 1,301 families from RS there are blood samples that can match 634 unidentified bodies. The DNA lab in Tuzla claims that none of the 1,301 DNA profiles of the blood were consistent with the remains found. There is a strong doubt about the claim that families are looking for their members, meaning dead or missing. The sad picture of this issue also complements the following data. In 2008, more than 1,000 Bošnjak bodies and 41 Srbin bodies were identified. More than 900 Bošnjak bodies and about 20 Srbin bodies were identified in 2009. The vast majority of families of killed and missing RS fighters and civilians, when the Institute of Missing Persons was formed in BiH, were expected by the Institute and the DNA lab in Tuzla to do an unbiased and equally humanitarian job for all missing and killed and for their families in BiH. Unfortunately, after everything that's been going on at the Institute of Missing Persons in BiH and in the laboratory itself, and what's going on today, and these data is inexorable, I think there's been a lot of political involvement in this institution too, and I'll be free to say, with a pretty clear background. On the other hand, I'll finish my comment on all of this with the next one. Because of what I've said, and I've had the opportunity to contact a part of the people of certain associations, it's an evaluation in these associations, so when it comes to the missing persons Institute, it means when it comes to the work and the prosecution and the court, it's pretty much one question of their simple, fair and professional relationship with this job, and I'm one of those people from the RS who only joins their thinking and these were the reasons that I tried to explain in the shortest lines, which is why I'm not happy with this answer that I got. And I'm not sure I'm going to settle for this, I'm going to make an effort in the next period that and a part of this, which is for me in the first part of this answer, and I'm going to check it out, so I'm probably going to go back to the second question. Thank you.
ParlaMint-BA_2010-02-23-0.u7111	Thank you very much. Now I need to make a statement. 9 I have asked the question why ethnic or religious belongings in my birth certificate are not included in the data. I received an answer that these data were not included in the birth certificate, or birth certificate in 1951. In part, I am pleased with this answer, with the fact that I do not understand what the procedure for further enrollment... of this data in the Mother Book of Born, because in the Federation this problem is solved far simpler. When raising a birth certificate itself, these data may be filled out immediately which has not been entered. So here, in a certain way, I ask the additional question, "How can these data be entered?" Delegate Zoran Koprivica. Here you go.
ParlaMint-BA_2010-02-23-0.u7112	Thank you, Mr. Chairman. I welcome present delegates to the House of Peoples, gentlemen from the Council of Ministers and guests, as well as media representatives. At the 40th meeting of the House of People, held on 30 December of last year, I asked the Council of Ministers on BiH's responsibilities, i.e. responsibilities, both on the basis of external and internal debt, both at the state level and at the level of entities and Brcko District, i.e. at all levels of government. And the questions, i.e. the answers given in this material, are partly acceptable, i.e. I am partially satisfied with them, but there are some answers that are unclear and where I express my reserve according to the answers received. The first question was, "How much is BiH's foreign debt currently on foreign loans?" I got the answer that that's an amount of 5,199,000,000. Second question: 'How much external debt was serviced in 2009? I received a reply that a total of 245,000 KM was serviced in 2009. The third question was, "Who are BiH's biggest creditors?" These are listed by the World Bank, the Paris Club, the London Club, the IMF, etc., at the amounts. The fourth question was, "How much of this foreign debt does it apply to the Federation of BiH and how much to the RS and Brcko District?" The external debt situation, I received an answer, in BiH on 31.12.2009, according to credit account holders: the total credit debt of BiH is 5.99.000,000, of which 3.353.000,000 credits are on the Federation, and on RS 1.813.000,000 million, and particular data for the Brcko District and institutions that are significantly less. Here, in my opinion, these data are contradictory and I think... and I'm receiving them with a reserve, since I'm not sure that these data is correct. 'What's the total duty, so-called. The internal responsibility of BiH, and how much of it applies to the Federation, and how much to the RS and Brcko District on the basis of the internal responsibility of BiH?" 10 So I received the answer that the internal total debt debt is 2.553.000,000, of which the Federation is waste 1,075,000, and of the RS 1,440,000,000. The following question was: ‘Is the total debt, or is the public debt, based on the total debt, moving within the criteria set out in Mastricht, up to 60% of the total debt in relation to the gross social product, and is the current public debt of BiH sustainable, and if its sustainability could arise?’ I received a response that the participation of BiH's overall public debt in the gross social product is about 32%. It is also responsible that by estimating the negative growth of the GDP for 2009 from –3% and assessing the public debt of cca about 8 billion KM the participation of public debt in relation to the gross social product would move around 35%. This participation of public debt for 2010 would be within the Mastricht criteria, moving in up to 60% of total debt compared to the gross social product. And at the end of this information, or the answer to these questions was... 'What is the structure of the purpose of foreign loans?' Here they are divided by certain segments, starting with the infrastructure billion and 500, public budget spending a billion and a hundred, economic activity 537 million, totaling 3.160,000,000. So, I am partly pleased with these answers by expressing my reserve on BiH's external responsibility as stated in this table on 31. 12. In 2009, I thank you.
ParlaMint-BA_2010-02-23-0.u7113	Thank you. Delegate Božo Ljubić.
ParlaMint-BA_2010-02-23-0.u7114	Ladies and gentlemen, the chairman, colleagues and colleagues, I have received partial answers, therefore, to two questions. As regards the first questions relating to the treatment of Hrvat refugees from Bosnia and Herzegovina whose parent books had been moved one period of war and porn and returned to the municipalities of Dervent, Brod, Modrič, Šamac, there were replies from each municipality individually with data, etc. which, of course, takes time to check and, therefore, I wouldn't be showing myself around this issue today, I would leave it for the next session. As for the second question, concerning the Law on property tax in the RS, I was not answered by the RS, I was answered by the truth in an indirect way from the Ministry of Human Rights and Refugees, but the clear data on how much was invested last year for the restoration of Croatian exiles' houses, and in fact the question did not apply. The question was that by March of this year, the law should start paying property taxes, and the question was that those persons who cannot use their property because of it, or are still far from BiH, in refugee or exile, whether that property is unusable or not helped to restore it, so they cannot be productively or used. So I didn't get an answer to that question. 11 Therefore, here, so the first question I will show myself at the next session, and I am still looking for an answer to this second question. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-BA_2010-02-23-0.u7115	Okay. And finally, the delegate of the Slobodan Šaraba. Here you go.
ParlaMint-BA_2010-02-23-0.u7116	Thank you, Mr. Chairman. Dear colleagues, respected representatives of the Council of Ministers, representatives of information funds, therefore, not that I am unhappy with the answer but I am deeply disappointed with the answer I have received. My question was therefore simple, and I asked him at a time when BiH and certain parts of it were hit by a major elemental flood disaster: 'What amount of Council of Ministers plans to help those areas?' And I got an answer saying the Council of Ministers can't answer me. So I'm really deeply disappointed with the answer. And especially because of the fact that at the time some members of the Council of Ministers were in the field and promised help, especially in Bilja. So I really don't have the words, so I'm deeply disappointed, once again, because of the way they've answered me with only one sentence and I think this... what this says here only deserves the words of rebuke and nothing else. This is really embarrassing. Thank you.
ParlaMint-BA_2010-02-23-0.u7117	Thank you very much. Any new delegate questions? Here... Adem Ibrahimpašić.
ParlaMint-BA_2010-02-23-0.u7118	Thank you, Chairman. BiH is a small country and a small market, with a total of about 51,000 square kilometers or about 3.8 million inhabitants. As such, it is not possible to run an economy of quantity, i.e. large series, already quality economy, i.e. A small series, using all of its... advantages. It's also not excessively liquid, so it's also forcing small production shows. As such, BiH is aimed at export production. And in order to export it, it must accept goods from BiH. To accept BiH goods, the market needs to know them first. That is why I am surprised that BiH and the little funds it spends in BiH through the budget for the ino presentation of its goods. So it turns out we're pushing water on the importer's mill. I therefore ask the Ministry of Foreign Trade and Economic Relations: 'Why the funds intended for fairs are spent on funding domestic fairs and why there is no plan and why there is no bh performance. The economy? Well, don't we care about resources, for example? Russia, Ukraine, and parts of CEFTA and parts of the EU?' 12 It would be very instructive for the Entitarian Chambers and the Foreign Chamber of Commerce of BiH, i.e. together with the Ministry of Foreign Trade and Economic Relations to draw up a plan for the performance of bh. economies abroad and realize it, and all of course in order to improve exports.
ParlaMint-BA_2010-02-23-0.u7119	Thank you very much. Mr. Hilmo Neimarlija.
ParlaMint-BA_2010-02-23-0.u7120	Mr. Chairman, fellow delegates, guests from the Council of Ministers, from other institutions, from the media, I have two issues concerning environmental policy and one relating to humanitarian policy in work and respect, of course, legal provisions in these areas and are intended for ministries in the government of the Federation of BiH. BiH's integration into the EU assumes the application of European environmental laws and standards. Unfortunately, BiH is known to be in the region's last place in environmental protection and waste management. It is also known that “Prevent” in the High since its establishment is the most aggressive, least controlled organic waste producer and air pollution in our country. Despite publicly presented requirements from institutions and individuals, which are based on access to information on the environment guaranteed by international conventions, the Government of the Federation of BiH has never provided the public with official information on the award of environmental and water management permits for the work of "Prevent“, nor official information on the legal procedure and guarantees on the basis of which these licences have been granted. In the same way they are sought, and they are missing, official government information on how much legal norms are really respected in the waste production and management processes in "Prevent" and what specific irregularities in the work "Prevent“ have been identified and sanctioned by the Federal Inspectors' Office for Inspection Affairs. From the Ministry of Environment and Tourism and the Ministry of Agriculture, Forestry and Water Management in the Government of the Federation of BiH, I ask the following questions: '1. Is there a ‘Prevention’ in the Highly required work permits and, if available, are those permits granted in the legal procedure and with the necessary guarantees of compliance with the law in their application? 2. Are legal norms in waste production and management processes in “Prevent” respected, and how have the inspectors of the Federal Inspectorate's Office for Inspectorial Affairs sanctioned them so far? 3. On 30 November last year, 28 workers of the "Prevent" factory in Vis asked for medical assistance at the House of Health in Vis. According to media presentations, this unremembered case of collective trauma or neurosis has been the result of difficult working conditions and exhausting overtime. What has the Ministry of Labour and Social Policy of the Federation of BiH done to shed light on this case and eliminate the causes of possible new and similar collective difficulties of workers?" 13 I refer the issue to the Ministry of Labour and Social Policy in the Government of the Federation of BiH. Thank you.
ParlaMint-BA_2010-02-23-0.u7121	Thank you. Delegate Ivo Miro Jović. Ivo Miro
ParlaMint-BA_2010-02-23-0.u7122	Thank you very much. Here, it's been five or six years since we passed the laws on the public TV system and service. I have to say to my misfortune it happened because I was energetic against such a law. And here, as it has been five or six years, I have a question for the BiH Ministry of Transport and Communications, RTVBiH and the Regulatory Agency. My question is, whose ownership was Radio 202? What law does he work under? Who approved frequencies for the work of this radio, when, how many employees on this radio, who is funding and with how many funds?"
ParlaMint-BA_2010-02-23-0.u7123	Thank you. Zoran Koprivica.
ParlaMint-BA_2010-02-23-0.u7124	Thank you, Mr. Chairman. I have a question for the Council of Ministers: 'It is evident that Banja Luka, Mostar, Tuzla, Bihać, Doboj, Bijeljina, Trebinje, Prijedor, Široki Brijeg, Zenica, Brcko, are as major political and economic centres in BiH, significantly neglected when it comes to the deployment of the headquarters of state institutions in BiH. The constitutional principle of entity equality, when it comes to these issues, is clear that it cannot even be spoken. This clearly points to a picture of BiH as a fully centralised country, because over 90% of its institutions are in Sarajevo right now. I therefore ask that the Council of Ministers also submit to the BiH Parliamentary Assembly a review of all the established state institutions of BiH with its seat and its possible organisational parts in other places, as well as the number of employees in them." Explanation: On Day 30. Six. In 2009, 21,320 workers were employed in BiH-level state institutions. It is about the Parliamentary Assembly, the Presidency, nine state ministries, the High Court and the Prosecutor's Council, the Constitutional Court of BiH, the Court of BiH, the Prosecutor's Office of BiH, the Ombudsman's Institution, the Directorates, administrations, offices, secretariats, councils, commissions, border police, centres, services, institutes, archives, the Intelligence and Security Agency, funds, committees and other agencies. In more than 90% of the cases, the headquarters of these 14 institutions is located in Sarajevo, and a clear picture and performance is obtained that the provisions of the BiH Constitution are respected in this sense, in the equality of its constituent peoples, entities, or policies of the even deployment of these institutions throughout the BiH territory. Thank you.
ParlaMint-BA_2010-02-23-0.u7125	Thank you very much. Mrs. Dušanka Majkić.
ParlaMint-BA_2010-02-23-0.u7126	Dear Chairman, respected colleagues and colleagues, my question has been addressed to High Representative Valentin Inck, and this first part of the issue is about constitutional provisions, which is: 'What does the High Representative intend to do to correct the multiannual violation of the Federation of BiH Constitution on the ethnic distribution of six key positions on the federal level, of which two must belong to representatives of the Serbian people?' So, in the context of this, "Is the High Representative intending to take any sanctions against those responsible for the Federation of BiH, because of years of violations of the Constitution?" And the third question is about urgency, practically, to the answers to the questions I asked at the 31st session of the House of Peoples of 18. 6 and 35 sessions of 15. The 9th questions are: 'When will the OHR Office start paying salary taxes and contributing to its full-time employees and thus stop with classical tax evasion and contributions to salaries in the RS and the Federation of BiH?' And from the 35th session: "Why didn't you seek a criminal investigation against Radislav Jovičić and why did the evidence against him not be forwarded to the director of SIPA, the Council of Ministers and the Prosecutor's Office of BiH?" In an explanation, I would like to say that it is related to these two first questions that High Representative Velentin Incko asked the Federation House of Representatives to resign at the end of last year, so that Bošnjak do not have staff in three positions, since the Constitution prescribes that they can have representatives at most in two positions. The ethnic schedule of six key positions listed in the Federation Constitution has continued to be marred despite a request by the High Representative to suspend this multiannual violation of the Constitution. It is obvious that Bošnjak do not intend to execute and correct this imbalance and leave one of the seats to representatives of the Serbian people. And this second, this last question, given that the High Representative seems to have no respect for the Parliamentary Assembly, as the highest legislative body, I once again ask him to answer those two questions with two sessions he has not submitted an answer to. Thank you. 15
ParlaMint-BA_2010-02-23-0.u7127	Thank you very much. The delegate of sloboda of Šarab. Here you go.
ParlaMint-BA_2010-02-23-0.u7128	Thank you, Mr. Chairman. So, at the beginning, I would like to support the initiative, launched by Ms. Majkić, that the Council of Ministers has answered all of those delegate questions which he has not answered so far in the coming period and thus respects the provisions of our Rules of Procedure in which Rule 146 states that the Council of Ministers is obliged and obliged to answer the delegation questions within no longer than 30 days. I express this especially because I have a large number of delegate questions that I have not received an answer to, and I really don't understand, and I don't understand why I haven't received an answer to any of these questions, such as the question of providing operational security services, which is the question to which the Council of Ministers, i.e. the director of SIPA, can answer within 10 minutes, of course, if he wants to. My delegate question that I'm going to ask today stems from one of the few answers I received in the previous period. I have asked one significant question for Herzegovina, which is: "Why and what are the reasons why BiH cannot get a licence to export honey to EU countries," and the answer is "because of the lack of equipment of our laboratories". So the question I am now asking the Council of Ministers is: "When will the Council of Ministers carry out the emergency equipment of laboratories in BiH and training the necessary personnel and thus enable BiH producers to export honey to EU countries?" Thank you.
ParlaMint-BA_2010-02-23-0.u7129	Thank you very much. Mrs Alma Čolo.
ParlaMint-BA_2010-02-23-0.u7130	Thank you, Chairman. I have one question from the Justice Department and the High Court and Prosecutor's Council. I don't know in which way, whether the Ministry of Justice will obtain data through the High Court and Prosecutor's Council, but the question is this: 'Respecting the independence of the BiH judiciary and in accordance with Article 6. I ask the European Conventions on Human Rights and Fundamental Freedoms: on average, how long are the litigation proceedings before the courts in BiH, and in particular how long are the second-degree litigation proceedings on average, means the proceedings before the cantonal courts in the Federation and the district courts in the RS?' Reason: BiH is required as a member of the Council of Europe to implement the European Convention on Human Rights and is an integral part of the BiH Constitution and is commanded by our domestic regulations and the BiH Constitution. In Article 6. 16 The European Convention provides for the right to a fair procedure, which includes the right to be tried within a reasonable period of time. Given the fact that BiH citizens have the right to resolve their case within a reasonable period of time and that there are certain complaints about the work of the judiciary, especially in litigation proceedings in the second instance, means before courts in the Federation and in the RS, and that according to the practice of the European Court of Human Rights, the most appeal before this court is for infringement of Article 6. The European Convention relating to a reasonable trial, I am interested in respecting this right of BiH citizens by regular courts in BiH, and therefore I ask this question." Thank you.
ParlaMint-BA_2010-02-23-0.u7131	Thank you very much. Does anyone else have any delegate questions? If not, we can only adopt another conclusion that Mrs. Majkić has proposed and other delegates have supported, which is that through the professional services once again, we are asked to answer those questions that we have not received so far and that we are given reasons why this has not been done, or who is responsible for this. Can we adopt one such conclusion? Who Is For? Is there anyone “against ”? "Contained"? There isn't. I find that we unanimously adopted this conclusion. We're going to the next item on the agenda, that's Ad. 2. The adoption of the minutes of the 42nd session of the House of Peoples Is anyone answering their word? If he doesn't answer, we're voting on the 42nd session. Who Is For? Is there anyone “against ”? "Contained"? There isn't. I understand that we unanimously adopted the 42nd session. Moving to the 3rd point of the agenda: Ad. 3. Proposal for a law on tobacco in Bosnia and Herzegovina (second reading) – Proposer: Council of Ministers of BiH 17
ParlaMint-BA_2010-02-23-0.u7134	Thank you, Chairman. The Commission postponed its statement on this law in the second reading at the session that preceded this, when we passed this law with five amendments, because the delegation, I just remind you, was the EU delegation to BiH that this law was discriminatory against foreign tobacco importers in BiH, especially those of the two 32nd and 35th members who were amended in the House of Representatives. And at that time, the College asked that the Directorate for European Integration, as a responsible institution, be made aware of whether the law is in line with the communal law and the Council of Ministers, were indeed these two members discriminatory over what they said in the EU delegation, in relation to the Interim Agreement, the CEFTA Agreement and the obligations of BiH in the process of joining the World Trade Organisation. At this last session of the Commission, we had a letter from the European Integration Directorate which said there is no legitimate concern that the law is discriminatory on the part of tobacco importers, because the Excise Act can remove any discrimination and the Excise Act is under obligation to comply with communal law, the law means the EU, so there is no discrimination. At the meeting of the Commission were also representatives of the EU delegation, I gave them my word and asked if they had objections to that position of the Directorate; they had no objections to that position of the Directorate. The foreign and trade policy ministry is also of the same opinion that there is no discrimination against foreign importers of tobacco processing in BiH. This law is very important for BiH because it will improve the competitiveness of our tobacco producers. And I'll just explain why we didn't adopt an amendment that was adopted in the House of Representatives. So these five amendments are identical with the amendments to the House of Representatives. We have not adopted amandman II.. which was adopted in the House of Representatives and refers to Article 32 of this Act, which provides for the categorisation of cigarettes. There is a percentage of at least 50% domestic tobacco to be included in certain categories of cigarettes in the House of Representatives changed to a percentage of 60%. The foreign trade ministry said in its letter that it would be good to think about the amendment because it might lead 60% to the discriminatory position of foreign tobacco producers and we did not support the amendment, respecting the position of the resolution ministry. When it comes to amendments submitted by Mr Šaraba, it means, in addition to these six amendments which were in the procedure at the House of Representatives, these three amendments were also considered by the Commission. The Ministry of Foreign Trade and Economic Relations gave a detailed 18 reasons why it did not accept these amendments, and this explanation was adopted at the Council of Ministers at the 111th session, held on 13. 1. We had in mind this opinion of the Council of Ministers, so the Commission did not support these three amendments Mr. Šaraba again today and on which we will have to plead at today's session again. Thank you.
ParlaMint-BA_2010-02-23-0.u7135	Thank you very much. Before I open the debate, I give the word to the delegate Slobodan Šarab. Here you go.
ParlaMint-BA_2010-02-23-0.u7136	Thank you, Mr. Chairman. So my argument will be brief. These amendments, which I reiterated at today's House session, are amendments that came from the field, therefore from people from one local community, from one environment where tobacco production is a basic activity, from the Municipality of Ljubinje, from manufacturers of tobacco that claim and who are convinced that if these amendments were adopted they would significantly improve the production of tobacco in that environment, therefore in all other environments. Now, that's their opinion and that's their attitude. And these amendments were made by them. And that's why I insist on them, and I think that if people who come from the field are saying something, then I'm deeply convinced that's good. Of course, the Council of Ministers has its position, but this is the attitude of people who do production, so on the ground. Thank you.
ParlaMint-BA_2010-02-23-0.u7137	Thank you very much. I'm opening a debate. Who's answering for a word? Mrs. Dušanka Majkić. Here you go.
ParlaMint-BA_2010-02-23-0.u7138	So, I think, as rarely as we have shown understanding of what the international community has said, and so we have said that this law violates CEFTA, we are violating the Stabilisation Agreement, we are jeopardizing our path towards the WTO, and the Commission has indeed made one move, or a moment has stopped to make sure of everything that the representatives of the European Commission have claimed. So, in the meantime, when we discussed it, amendments to the House of Representatives were already adopted, and that actually caused an avalanche of dissatisfaction by the European Commission. But then I looked at what the European Commission was really rebelling about. He says... that these provisions were subsequently introduced into the law, that they were discriminatory, and that it was not seen immediately from the law but that this could happen through a sublaw or supplementing the Act of Accises. So there's no discrimination, but it could happen. It's the first thing that's really inappropriate. Secondly, the European Commission considers it necessary to oppose the introduction of quality control for import cigarettes. Imagine, it is indeed, anyone who would object to being in this country that practically does not care, and we know how much we lack control mechanisms, that we also ignore that part and allow BiH to import whoever it wants. So, and it's really 19 something I can't believe that such a request could come from the European Commission. Especially seeing what our neighbours have been inventing for years different mechanisms to protect this tobacco industry, to make huge revenues to the budget, and so no one accuses them of violating the different international agreements they have signed. Only BiH, a country that is just trying to settle and settle, cannot introduce these mechanisms and those standards. So, the rights that everyone else has, BiH has been taken away. I believe that what Mr. Šaraba has offered as amendments again might be discussed, but it is necessary to ensure that the views of the competent ethnic ministries are provided, because here he says the premium is being introduced. The premium is provided by the departments responsible. Do we have an opinion on what the departments say about this? I believe that people whose tobacco production is the only area they're dealing with, the only production they're doing, that they need it, but we need to see what the government's position is about. So nothing prevents Mr. Šarab from making these amendments... as an amendment to this law, if we have the opportunity to provide these funds. So, I am in favour of the amendments adopted by the Commission, so we have made a concession, as Čolo, instead of 60%, 50% of the domestic, the only one who could have just acted discriminatoryly, so instead of 60% of the domestic tobacco, here's 50%, so we're going to have to have a committee to agree on because the House of Representatives adopted 60%, and that all the further stories on the subject end and that BiH is beginning to think about itself in the way other countries do. Thank you.
ParlaMint-BA_2010-02-23-0.u7139	Mr. Adem Ibrahimpašić.
ParlaMint-BA_2010-02-23-0.u7140	Thank you, Chairman. I have to say this so we know what this is about. So, some clerk, not some EU, as we say, writes a letter to the Commission and stops the process of adopting this law. For what reason? After the House of Directors, is it, says it's all good. So these lobbies are strong, especially cigarette lobbys, that here they get involved directly in any process of changing something that's been taking our heads off for 15 years. These formulations that we are now adopting in this law exist in Serbian and Croatian legislation, that is, from before, I think, 14 years ago, not to exaggerate. These formulations then allowed excise laws in those countries to adapt to this, so those countries which, if not used in the production of their cigarettes 50% of domestic tobacco, have five times the excise duty on the Croatian market or the Serbian market of cigarettes produced there, so that the disproportion, therefore minus in exchange, is in the trade of cigarettes only from two countries, so with Serbia and Croatia, around 119 million in the last year, is at the expense of BiH, of course. And now, when our legislator remembers after so much time and tries to adapt that thing to the right situation, no one in Croatia is attacked, no one in Serbia is attacked, no one in Serbia who has the same formulas and has worse in the excise laws, different excises, is ordered to take it down, but here is trying to force us here, and neither do we, I don't know what we look like, so we react to every letter from some clerk so, come on, what they're going to say. I'm saying this because in the future, you don't have to succumb to the kind of pressure these people are making. 20 As far as this article is concerned, I do not know, 32, 33, so in all and one law in Croatia, concerning the control of goods for the import of any goods in Croatia, it says: when a sample is taken for the analysis of the quality of the goods, then the goods shall not be customs; be careful, they shall not be customs until that analysis is made. That means our trucks are waiting 20, 23-24 days in a customs warehouse, so the goods are free, pay for this, pay for that. In our everything and one law, it is not an accident, it says that goods must not be placed on the market before analysis. So, the goods are adorned and the goods are gone. And of course, he goes straight to the counter, he doesn't get stuck anywhere. And now he's trying, we're trying, this is the legislator well done, the amendment is done, if I'm not mistaken, to say it's... before customs; you can't customs the goods until the sample and it's the same as theirs, so you'll see what that thing looks like and then it'll be a deficit. And of course... some lobby bothers who works with money and then puts pressure on us. We must not fall for that pressure and pressure. We just can't. This 50% we insisted, not much. So, in their laws, 50% of domestic tobacco is in Croatian and Serbian, so let it stand in ours, too, so that it doesn't have anything in you and hold on to it. That's why we refused that amendment. And, Mr. Šarab, I am always for this, for every producer, but if every producer provided themselves with this kind of treatment in any law, when we make it, then this country would fall as the Federation now falls because someone very irresponsible has promised and sharpened some kind of giving that can't pay. All of this can be done beyond legal obligation. So it can be done when the money is there and it should be taken into account by the authorities, by any authority. If we put it in the law, we'll cause an escalation. And I, too, would like as a producer to have my goods, if I had a premium and healthy students. And that's why I'm not going to vote for this amendment of yours, although I think any government should take care of it, and whenever it can, in agriculture especially, help the manufacturer... not to be in a minus, that's just what I'm saying. Thank you.
ParlaMint-BA_2010-02-23-0.u7141	Thank you very much. If no one answers the word... Nice to Ljubičić you. Here you go.
ParlaMint-BA_2010-02-23-0.u7142	I thank you, Mr. Chairman. Very short. If we want to talk about the essence of this law and continue to be more important about the need for this law for BiH, it would certainly be repeated, meaning in a large part with previous speakers. Therefore, I only answered briefly to say that this law should be supported because BiH is needed, with the full respect and those interventions that were; but here, from previous speakers we have heard enough arguments that such a law should be supported.
ParlaMint-BA_2010-02-23-0.u7143	Thank you very much. 21 If no one ever answers their word again, then we shall declare the amendment of the delegate Slobodan Šaraba. That's two amendments, right? Three amendments, good. We're voting on amandman I.. kao's "for"? _________(?) [[no microphone turned on]] We will declare the amendments to the Slobodan Šaraba delegates. We're voting on amandman I.. kao's "for"? One is “for. ” Who Is “against ”? "Contained"? The amendment didn't go through. We vote on amandman II.. Who Is For? ‘Non’? "Contained"? It is not amandman II.. He didn't make it. We vote on amandman III.. Who Is For? ‘Non’? "Contained"? This Regulation amandman enter into III. on the twentieth day following that of its We're voting on the bill. Who Is For? Is there anyone “against ”? There isn't. "Contained"? With one vote "abstained", I find that the BiH tobacco law has been passed. Since this law has been passed in a different course than the House of Representatives, we must form a Commission for the Consensus of the Text of the Law. Any suggestions for members of this committee? The Srbin Club, who is it?
ParlaMint-BA_2010-02-23-0.u7145	Šaraba. 22
ParlaMint-BA_2010-02-23-0.u7146	Mr. Slobodan Šaraba. A Hrvat?
ParlaMint-BA_2010-02-23-0.u7147	/no microphone turned on/
ParlaMint-BA_2010-02-23-0.u7148	Who?
ParlaMint-BA_2010-02-23-0.u7149	/no microphone turned on/
ParlaMint-BA_2010-02-23-0.u7150	Božo Ljubić. The Bošnjak?
ParlaMint-BA_2010-02-23-0.u7151	Mr Ibrahimpašić.
ParlaMint-BA_2010-02-23-0.u7152	Mr Ibrahimpašić. Can we adopt a proposal from these board members? Who Is For? Does anyone have “against ”? "Contained"? There isn't. I agree that we have unanimously elected members of the Joint Commission to bring the text of the Law of the House of Nations into line. Moving to the fourth item of the agenda: Ad. 4. Proposal for a Law on Amendments and Supplements to the Customs Tariff Act of Bosnia and Herzegovina (second reading) – Proposer: Council of Ministers of BiH This is a second reading, a debate is being held on amendments and votes on the bill's proposal. You have received a report from the Commission on foreign and trade policy, customs, traffic and communication. The Commission adopted the draft law with one amendment. The House of Representatives also passed this law with one amendment. The new amendments were submitted by delegate Božo Ljubić, two amendments. I give my word to the Chairman of the Commission, Alma Čolo. Here you go, Alma. 23
ParlaMint-BA_2010-02-23-0.u7154	Thank you. As you said, the Commission passed this law with this one amendment, which is identical to the amendment adopted in the House of Representatives. Who read the newspaper yesterday was an extensive article on what this law means for BiH. In fact, this law increases the competitiveness of bh. economics as it lowers the customs rates for imports of retromaterials and harmonizes with the combined nomenclature of EU customs rates. It is that this law comes a little late for our producers importing repromatter from EU countries, but it will certainly allow a lot of bh. economics, since the reduced rates of as much as 15-10% are in line with EU rates of 2-3% and 5%, especially for certain textile products, shoes, iron, steel, aluminium products. However, I would only like to refer to these amendments submitted by Mr Božo Ljubić. He submitted these amendments to the Commission. We could not accept because of the Commission's business provisions, because the amendments could be invested 48 hours before the Commission's meeting. And we agreed to the Commission that he could propose these amendments to the House. Of course, you should consider Article 112. The Rules of Procedure of the House of People, which states that if the College submits new amendments, the College of the House decides whether these amendments will be considered by the House and, of course, if certain conditions of the Rules of Procedure are met in Article 112, it means that they relate to new aspects, which the Commission could not have in mind, or to some new proposals, or, here, not to paraphrase exactly, here is the Secretary of the House, so I leave the College of the House to decide a statement on the acceptance of these amendments. Thank you.
ParlaMint-BA_2010-02-23-0.u7155	Mrs. Majkić. Here you go.
ParlaMint-BA_2010-02-23-0.u7156	Well, I'd just like to comment, here's almost where Čolo's colleague said the most important part. So, Mr. Ljubić hasn't been in the House of Peoples long and he probably has problems with the Rules of Procedure, but I resent him for writing here that he missed out on time. Do not write it so publicly, so that the Kolegijum, and if you want it to do you a favor, how will it do, when you have confessed to sin that you forgot to do it on time? So, please, don't really put us in an awkward situation, because Article 112 explicitly states: 'In the same time, authorised amendment promoters from Article 103. (1) This Rules of Procedure may propose amendments in written form which they wish to defend again.' Again! You don't have it again, you have it the first time. So, I ask you, so that we don't open up the possibility that we all forget, and then we ask that it be done at the House, I ask you to give up, really, so that we don't have to vote on your amendments that don't have a chance to pass, because they're too late. Thank you. 24
ParlaMint-BA_2010-02-23-0.u7157	Okay. Here, obviously there is no agreement in the College that these amendments are being discussed; and here, normally, I give the word to Mr. Božo Ljubić, who answered. I'm opening a debate and giving my word to Mr. Božo Ljubić.
ParlaMint-BA_2010-02-23-0.u7158	Look, there's no basic problem here whether or not I missed it, so on time, the problem is now why someone else missed out on finding something that was supposed to be found in this law on time. Therefore, that is the essence, and we can now play with business provisions. Of course, I'm not an expert on the Rules of Procedure, nor am I trying to be, but I'll try to respect as much as I know and can, but you're more experienced in the business of teaching me. So I've discussed this in the first reading of this law. Therefore, competent institutions could also react on time and translate it into the amendment. So I didn't even have to do it myself. So I pointed out the point. So, for me, the main problem is why it's been missed, one proposal for aluminum... and that's why I'd like to hear a statement from the Council of Ministers. Maybe the amendments couldn't be found at all, but I insist on hearing why they didn't meet and whether it would be justified to meet. That's the point, and not if we're going to do it; you can practice the force here as much as you want and terror as you want, but it's my basic question whether these tariffs should be found in this law and whether the manufacturer will be damaged in relation to others. That's the point. ... If our goal is to support producers, if there is a business, let me put it that way, the possibility, then this House's position would be condemned if I didn't use it, whether I missed it or not.
ParlaMint-BA_2010-02-23-0.u7159	Okay, here's the Ministry's representative, so, Mr. Šarab, then I'll give you my word. Or if you want to before? Mr. Šaraba.
ParlaMint-BA_2010-02-23-0.u7160	So, briefly. I don't know, Mr. Chairman, why are we dealing with this issue unless it's in accordance with the Rules of Procedure? What's the reason we're opening this debate?
ParlaMint-BA_2010-02-23-0.u7161	Okay. ...
ParlaMint-BA_2010-02-23-0.u7162	We have a broad discussion.
ParlaMint-BA_2010-02-23-0.u7163	Then there's no need for a representative of this ministry.
ParlaMint-BA_2010-02-23-0.u7164	So let me explain. 25 [[Common discussion]]
ParlaMint-BA_2010-02-23-0.u7165	Here you go, here you go. Here, let's see what's the point.
ParlaMint-BA_2010-02-23-0.u7166	It is in harmony, and so did Mrs. Čolo, if the College agrees. And I sent these amendments to the College. [[Common discussion]]
ParlaMint-BA_2010-02-23-0.u7167	There's no consent.
ParlaMint-BA_2010-02-23-0.u7168	No consent, then he can't. Here you go.
ParlaMint-BA_2010-02-23-0.u7169	Thank you, Mr. Chairman. Ladies and gentlemen of the Parliament, I respect Mr. Ljubić's wish to help the metal industry. Believe me, we'd do it too if we could. However, when EU customs rates are agreed, the customs rate in your first amendment is 5% and in the EU is 6%. That means there's a more favourable situation with us than there is in the EU. We have another case: you're asking from 5% to 0, and in the EU it's 5.5%. So, we, and if we had the will, there's nothing we could do here.
ParlaMint-BA_2010-02-23-0.u7170	Thank you very much. Is anyone else answering for word? Mr. Drago Ljubičić. Here you go.
ParlaMint-BA_2010-02-23-0.u7171	I thank you, Mr. Chairman. We have yet another law or better said amendments and additions to the law needed by a domestic producer; something similar or the same as the previous law we discussed. I hope that the Council of Ministers will continue with this practice, precisely in order to create better conditions for our producers, and on this side I only welcome these initiatives and this way of working on the Council of Ministers and this law and these amendments should be supported.
ParlaMint-BA_2010-02-23-0.u7172	Mr. Adem Ibrahimpašić. 26
ParlaMint-BA_2010-02-23-0.u7173	Thank you, Chairman. I would advise you from the Ministry of Foreign Trade and Economic Relations: do not wait for people to submit requests, so producers, that you reduce customs duties and adapt our tariff to European customs. Do it wherever we're competitive, do it now. And where we're not, they'll eventually pull us by the sleeve. So wherever we are, wherever our law is competitive, give it away, you'll help people. Some people, they're what they are, they're not organized, this, that, so don't wait to make demands, do it where we're competitive.
ParlaMint-BA_2010-02-23-0.u7174	Thank you very much. If there's no one else, Božo Rajić. Here you go.
ParlaMint-BA_2010-02-23-0.u7175	Thank you, Mr. Chairman. So, I'm not going to fall into a trap to hook up with procedural questions for a principled reason that I know we've broken the Rules of Procedure at least a hundred times now, on purpose. Here is a fundamental question, I do not even accept this response given by the foreign trade ministry representative, it is not said: if this customs rate is in the EU, that our doors for talks and for the possibility of discharging the economy are closed. All right. Here is a fundamental question that I want to make publicly: Is it all ours in BiH or not? Because there are obviously companies that are our own, so we recently had a situation where we've been pushing some special contingents past business procedures, past any economic resonance. Remember sugar, remember beer, etc. At that time, no one was bothered by the procedure, nor was there any resistance in the House College to reach agreement in the plea. But, well, it's a real life, too. I ask again: Is everything that attracts in BiH ours or has ours, yours, theirs, nobody else's, etc.? I am saying this because the game around Aluminium is, most productive, most successful and most qualitative production capacity in BiH ever since this country exists, playing around this industry, around this company is so transparent that more and more naive people know that it is an organised attempt to destroy the company that represents and should represent the pride and backbone of BiH's economic development. No, well, and this is another proof that Aluminium isn't ours, and I say it is. Thank you.
ParlaMint-BA_2010-02-23-0.u7176	Thank you very much. Mr. Adem Ibrahimpašić. 27
ParlaMint-BA_2010-02-23-0.u7177	Here, just a minute. So, Božo, beer has never been the subject of this home. Maybe it was a question, but it wasn't a beer.
ParlaMint-BA_2010-02-23-0.u7178	Okay. They're all our companies and the aluminum combination. But here, if there's anyone else to answer for, if you don't, I'll put it to the vote. Who is “for ” this law? Is there anyone “against ”? There isn't. "Contained"? There isn't. I agree that we unanimously adopted the Law on Amendments and Supplements to the Customs Tariff Act of BiH. We're going to the fifth item of the agenda: Ad. 5. Proposal for a law on the protection of new varieties of plants in Bosnia and Herzegovina (second reading) – Proposer: Council of Ministers of BiH There is a debate on amendments and a vote on the Bill's Proposal is being held. You have received a report from the Commission on foreign and trade policy, customs, traffic and communication. The Commission adopted the draft law in the proposed text. The House of Representatives passed this law in the proposed text. Is there any need for Alma Čolo, since everything is identical?
ParlaMint-BA_2010-02-23-0.u7180	Just two sentences.
ParlaMint-BA_2010-02-23-0.u7181	Okay. Here you go.
ParlaMint-BA_2010-02-23-0.u7182	BiH is regulating the issue of intellectual property protection, and today this session is witnessing, we have three laws in the area, because the protection of new varieties of plants is in fact a protection of intellectual property and we are harmonising our legislation with EU regulations and directives that protect new varieties of plants, so that BiH meets the conditions in this process of joining the World Trade Organisation as regards the protection of intellectual property and this is one of the conditions. 28
ParlaMint-BA_2010-02-23-0.u7183	Thank you very much. I'm opening a debate. If no one answers the question, we're voting on the bill. Who Is For? Is there anyone “against ”? There isn't. "Contained"? There isn't. I agree that we unanimously passed the Law on the Protection of New Plant Varieties in BiH. Moving to the sixth item of the agenda: Ad. Six. Proposal for a Law on Working Time, Mandatory Holidays of Mobile Workers and Road Transport Recording Devices (first reading) – Proposer: Council of Ministers of BiH First there is a debate on the necessity and principles on which the bill is based. You have received the opinion of the Commission for Foreign and Trade Policy, Customs, Transport and Communications. The Commission accepted the principles of the proposed law. The House of Representatives passed the bill in the first reading. I give my word to the chairman of the Commission, Alma Čolo, if necessary, normally.
ParlaMint-BA_2010-02-23-0.u7185	This law is actually one condition, it is a alignment with the Stabilisation and Association Agreement, in particular Protocol 3 relating to land transport. These are the issues of our road transporters, the people who drive these freight vehicles, especially the issue of digital tachographs, because BiH has since this year to introduce digital tachographs (I think since June 2010). And so, we must, the Ministry has delivered this law to... procedure and it is up to us to adopt it in good time to fulfil this international obligation.
ParlaMint-BA_2010-02-23-0.u7186	I'm opening a debate. Is anyone answering their word? Ms. Majkić, Ivo Miro Jović. 29
ParlaMint-BA_2010-02-23-0.u7187	So, one big, large and complex law is in the process today. In my opinion, he meets three of the most important principles. It is that the bill has passed all the necessary procedure that allows it to be acceptable for all three peoples. Secondly, representatives of the entity and Brcko District, as well as the Agency for Identification Documents, External Chambers, therefore all those who have something to say on this subject, participated in it. And third, that positive opinions were of all dates, and basically I saw that the basis was such a law in Croatia and that we followed what has already been tried in real life, when it comes to regulating this area. So, here's my colleague, Čolo, who said that it was the fulfillment of one of the conditions, i.e. the priorities of the European Partnership, i.e. the alignment of bh. legislation in the area of road traffic with acquis communaitaire. So, all this stuff that contains this law can't be questioned, but there are a number of questions that I haven't received by reading these members. The first question is that this law has obviously taken up a lot of time and that this ministry has come into teatime because we have an obligation that since 16 June 2010, all buses and trucks must have digital tachographs installed and will not be able to enter other countries without them. Will we be able to prepare all participants for this process – drivers, representatives of the Ministry of the Interior, will we be able to provide software, an information system that allows all of this to be implemented? Did we provide funds for this purpose? And, what may be crucial, the Republic of Croatia has defined two stages in the introduction of this law. The first stage was that the defined criteria that will apply immediately after the adoption of the law, and the second stage... defined the criteria that will apply after Croatia's entry into the EU. We've abandoned that standard. So we say that the 16th 10th obligation will come into force, and in this time, we must bring in a series of sublegal acts that follow this law. So, I'd like to ask a representative of this ministry, so I can have a complete picture of this law, to answer these few questions for me. Thank you.
ParlaMint-BA_2010-02-23-0.u7188	Thank you very much. Here is Minister Rudo Vidović, but let's hear more delegates first. There may be some more questions, so we'll give you our word later. Mr Ivo Miro Jović. Here you go. Ivo Miro
ParlaMint-BA_2010-02-23-0.u7189	Thank you very much. I join that part of what she said and the esteemed Vice President Majkić, as this law is necessary, but I would add that this law was made very studioy, methodologically, we had no opportunity to have such a law on the tables. And, I think we recently had a round table on the subject of the unique rule of lawmaking; here, this is one example of how this law or our laws we're making might look. 30 Me, that's what we said on the Constitutional Commission, on constitutional relations and compliance with the system, and we did it unanimously on our commission. I have a suggestion until the second reading: what we get on the table and there is also a predence to be in Croatian to be written and written. And so before, and I'm offered, because mostly we get laws that aren't in Croatian, I'm only offered that in the context of this law in three places, the native language is also required in the fulfillment of a particular documentation. If there is no law in Croatian, I do not know if those who use Croatian will be able to declare that.
ParlaMint-BA_2010-02-23-0.u7190	Any other delegates come forward for a word? If he does not report, I would ask Minister Ruda Vidović to give clarifications and the necessary reasons.
ParlaMint-BA_2010-02-23-0.u7191	Dear Mr. President, distinguished colleagues and fellow envoys, ladies and gentlemen, here, as you yourself have said, there is a very important law in front of us on which the Ministry of Communications and Transport has worked for several years, I would say, for several months, with great efforts and the need to agree with the competent institutions and, behold, the distinguished representative Mrs. Majkić said - it is a pleasure to say here that a high degree of compliance has been achieved. And it's not easy to reach that degree of harmony today. There's been a lot of effort and one of, I would say, the reason for the delay is that, so until we come to a consensus that the law contains all the positive opinions within itself and that ultimately, it will ensure the passing through the commission and through both homes, of course. So, this law on digital tachograph, here we have heard that one of the important conditions, we have heard defined deadlines, but also here is our caution in... the very procedure of respecting these deadlines, especially expecting that the law will receive passage to both homes, especially because of the need to produce certain sublegal acts that will actually define the details of the application of this law. I have to say that we have been working directly on this law in recent months, and here are some of the problems that we have at the Ministry regarding the suspension of seven civil servants (one of them has worked directly on this law) but we have to look for models to follow certain deadlines; I have to say that in contact with representatives of Slovenia and Croatia's ministries we have support. And now, here is the beginning of the third month, Slovenia's delegation headed by the Minister of Communications, i.e. transport, and its associates will come to BiH. One of the topics is actually helping us to make sublegal acts, counting that what has been done in Croatia is actually, I will not say it, but the help of Slovenia has been used. It is about the application of European standards, and in this sense there is no need to invent something too much, it should be applied to BiH and I think that as far as we are concerned, we will not be too late. However, I did date 16. Six. 2010 is the day when actually... registration of new vehicles – they must have a digital tachograph installed and certain workshops have already been made. Now at the beginning of the third month there will be another one, so that our autocarers, and with the help of the Out-of-Trogin Chamber, already know, especially those who will buy new vehicles, and because of the first registration when they have to actually apply these regulations. 31 As for the phase and the provisions, and we planned to apply the law ourselves, I would say, in two stages, what you were talking about, but the suggestion of the Directorate for European Integrations was different. And of course, all the opinions that we should have put in place, we also took into account the opinion of the Directorate for European Integration. But by sublegal acts, I said, so these days we'll see how those parts can be speeded up so that the deadline, as far as it's clearly defined, can be respected. We have experience that some countries haven't done that part of the job in time, say, like it was in Greece, and we know what that really means if we're late for our car transporters. But here, I still believe that, with the help of good friends and who have made themselves available to us, both from Slovenia and from the Republic of Croatia, we will be able to make sublaws. Here, thank you very much.
ParlaMint-BA_2010-02-23-0.u7192	Thank you very much. Anyone else answer for a word? If he doesn't answer, we're voting on the bill in the first reading. Who Is For? Is there anyone “against ”? There isn't. "Contained"? There isn't. I agree that we unanimously adopted the Proposal for a Law on Working Time, the mandatory vacations of mobile workers and road transport recording devices. Moving to 7th point: Ad. Seven. Proposal for a Law on Amendments and Supplements to the Law on Classification of Activities in Bosnia and Herzegovina (first reading) – Proposer: Council of Ministers of BiH This is the first reading of the bill. Article 100 discusses the necessity and principles on which the proposal is based. You have received the opinion of the Joint Commission for European Integration. The Commission accepted the principles of the proposed law. The House of Representatives adopted the bill in the first reading. I give my word to Mr Ivo Miri Jović, whom the Commission has appointed as rapporteur in the House of Peoples. Here you go. Ivo Miro
ParlaMint-BA_2010-02-23-0.u7194	: Thank you very much and very briefly. Our Committee on European Integration discussed this law, unanimously decided to support the solutions offered by this law and proposed that it be considered in the short procedure as requested by the legislator, and as colleagues in the House of Representatives have also accepted. 32
ParlaMint-BA_2010-02-23-0.u7195	Thank you very much. I'm opening a debate. Mrs. Dušanka Majkić. Here you go.
ParlaMint-BA_2010-02-23-0.u7196	I only wish the Commission for European Integration had said another optimistic news about this law, which is that the adoption of this law will be a preparation for the BiH census and households, and that is why we have even rushed to pass this law. If the Commission for European Integration has only insisted on the law, lar lar lar, then I really don't see why this law went so urgently and why it's so much noise if we still don't have the agreement that BiH doesn't stay the last hole and along with Liban and Somalija at the end of the world, when it comes to the census. So, I ask my colleagues to try in different ways, through their party forums, to come up with what is crucial for our country's further development, which is a census. Thank you.
ParlaMint-BA_2010-02-23-0.u7197	Thank you very much. ... Mr. Zoran Koprivica. Here you go.
ParlaMint-BA_2010-02-23-0.u7198	Thank you, Mr. Chairman. I will only comment briefly, given that I was present at the European Integration Commission session. Of course, I support the adoption of this law because, as the opening argument has already been given, it agrees in a certain way with the standards that must be applied in BiH to provide these statistics that will be produced since 2010. First of all, the Statistical Agency is obliged to adopt, after the adoption of this law, a classification of activities on the basis of which these statistical activities will be coordinated in the entities' statistical institutions and the State-level Statistics Agency and in which they are established in the annual work plans for 2010. What I would only like to comment on in this additional explanation of the Bill on Amendments and Supplements to the Act on Classification of Activities in BiH: any change in the classification of activities is certain to require financial resources as well. It states here that no financial means are needed to implement this law, which, of course, from the state level, or the level of the budget, is likely to be necessary, but it will certainly require significant funds, because any change in the classification requires economic operators, of all those who in any way align their activities with this classification, certainly enrolment in the court register and the costs that will be imminent. So, I support the provisions of this law and I suggest we make a statement about it and adopt it. 33 Thank you.
ParlaMint-BA_2010-02-23-0.u7199	Is anyone else answering for word? If she doesn't answer, I'll put her to the vote on the bill in the first reading. Who Is For? Is there anyone “against ”? There isn't. "Contained"? There isn't. I agree that we unanimously adopted the Proposal for a Law amending the Law on the Classification of Activities in Bosnia and Herzegovina in the first reading. Moving to the 8th point of the agenda: Ad. 8. Proposal for a Law on Amendments and Supplements to the Law on the Public TV System of Bosnia and Herzegovina (first reading) – Proposer: Council of Ministers of BiH This is the first reading of the bill. Article 100 of the Rules of Procedure discusses the necessity and principles on which the proposal for a law is based. You have received the opinion of the Commission for Foreign and Trade Policy, Customs, Transport and Communications. The Commission has accepted the principles of the bill. The House of Representatives passed this law. I give my word to the Chairman of the Commission, Alma Čolo.
ParlaMint-BA_2010-02-23-0.u7201	Here, I'll take one sentence for all three laws that follow, these are the Law on Public TV Service, the Law on the Public TV System and the Communication Act. It's actually harmonising these laws with the Law on Gender Equality. It is an obligation and the Ministry of Transport and Communication is really up-to-date, its laws from its jurisdiction harmonize with these laws, and of course it will have to do so by other ministries, so there's no need for these other laws to say it again.
ParlaMint-BA_2010-02-23-0.u7202	Thank you very much. I'm opening a debate. Mrs. Majkić. Here you go. 34
ParlaMint-BA_2010-02-23-0.u7203	I couldn't help it. A law like this, I think, the Parliamentary Assembly has long waited for and much work of NGOs and, behold, the police centre agency, the Gender Equality Agency has finally heard. But here's the information that the Council of Ministers is 2. At the 82nd session, the Ministry of Transport and Communications tasked with preparing the bill, and now here we have it. It was not sent to the minister, his sin was shorter. So I forgot everything when I saw what the subject was and what the principles of this law were. Therefore, it is known that the Law on Gender Equality was passed in 2003 and that it was binding, that all laws at the state level must be brought into line with the provisions of the Law on Gender Equality. So, accordingly, we have an example that in this Proposal for a Law on Amendments and Supplements to the Law on the Public TV System of BiH, and in a similar way to the following two laws, the first principle is that, when selecting the Director-General of the Corporation and persons responsible to the Director-General, the equal representation of both genders must be respected in accordance with the law. So here's a chance for members of the less represented sex to come to such high places. The second is that the same applies to the percentage of gender participation on the board of directors. And in the corporate employment process, if two or more candidates meet the requirements equally, together they will have a less represented sex. So here's a chance for more women to get a position in such significant bodies. When it comes to software content and editorial policy that it must adapt to equal representation of the interests of both genders in the media, we know well that it is not now. And we know how much less represented the sex is virtually eliminated from the media. It is very few women who are able to come into a position to present themselves or to represent their interests, or to present their views on the public media. And finally, the use of a gender of sensitive language and a ban on broadcasting of all the content of which sex is represented in a stereotype and offensive manner, will oblige all those working on the media to properly and in accordance with this law. So I believe that this law and these next two, therefore the same principle, is not opposed to the interests of the more represented sex and that our colleagues will support these principles of the law. Thank you.
ParlaMint-BA_2010-02-23-0.u7204	Thank you very much. Mr. Branko Zrno. Here you go.
ParlaMint-BA_2010-02-23-0.u7205	Thank you, Mr. Chairman. Just one intervention. I don't know if it's linguistic, technical or what it is. In Article 3, look, stand, quote: 'Adjust software content and editorial policy'. Did I wave that? 35
ParlaMint-BA_2010-02-23-0.u7206	Fourth.
ParlaMint-BA_2010-02-23-0.u7207	(Yes, 4th and I read 3.) 'Employing software content', is whether, 'publish attachments that genders represent in stereotypan and offensive or in a humiliating way'. This word "attraction" here really means nothing.
ParlaMint-BA_2010-02-23-0.u7208	Annexes to emissions.
ParlaMint-BA_2010-02-23-0.u7209	It could be a contribution.
ParlaMint-BA_2010-02-23-0.u7210	Appendixes to shows, with me 'appendations'.
ParlaMint-BA_2010-02-23-0.u7211	Attachment. So this is someone who knows Croatian well translated. Okay, thanks. But this, in any case, please, linguist needs to be fixed here.
ParlaMint-BA_2010-02-23-0.u7212	Thank you very much. Is anyone else answering for word? If he doesn't answer, Minister. You want one? Here you are, Mr. Minister Vido Rudović.
ParlaMint-BA_2010-02-23-0.u7213	Thank you, Mr. President. Of course, the remarks are all in place and we will appreciate it, but here I feel the need to say only two words when it comes to the procedure of passing these laws. The truth is, so it's 2. 4. The Council of Ministers tasked the Ministry of Communications and Transport and that it had been working since then, but it is also true that all three laws were actually sent to parliamentary procedure by 18. 8, so 18. 8. In 2009, and that... I'd be happy and happy if it had happened before, so 18. 8. And as for the observations of the distinguished representative Branko Zrn, of course, after this debate, the laws will experience lecturing and, of course, these changes of the technical nature and the lecturing will be respected. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-BA_2010-02-23-0.u7214	Thank you very much. I'm putting the bill in first reading for a vote. Who Is For? 36 Is There a “against ”? There isn't. "Contained"? I agree that we adopted a unanimous proposal for a law on amendments and additions to the Law on the Public TV System of BiH in the first reading. Now we move to point nine, Ad. Nine. Proposal for a Law on Amendments and Supplements to the Law on the Public TV Service of Bosnia and Herzegovina (first reading) – Proposer: Council of Ministers of BiH First reading again, not to repeat all that. Alma's already given the show. Can we vote? We can. Who Is For? Is there anyone “against ”? "Contained"? There isn't. I also find that this law was unanimously adopted in the first reading. The next item is Ad. Ten. Proposal for a Law on Amendments and Supplements to the Communication Act (first reading) – Proposer: Council of Ministers of BiH
ParlaMint-BA_2010-02-23-0.u7218	Thank you very much. And short again. We unanimously supported the principles of the proposed law, but because of the importance and interest of the various entities in BiH today, we proposed to the House to support us in one conclusion: 'The Constitutional Legal Commission of the People's House and the Constitutional Commission of the House of Representatives to organise and carry out a public debate on the Proposal for a Law on Copyright and Related Rights and the Proposal for a Law on collective exercise of copyright and related rights, because they are mutually pervasive, and... will call on all interested legal and physical persons from the territory of BiH.'
ParlaMint-BA_2010-02-23-0.u7219	Thank you very much. I'm opening a debate. Mrs. Majkić's answering for a word. Here you go.
ParlaMint-BA_2010-02-23-0.u7220	Since a public debate will be held, I suggest that we accept the principles of this law, that we do not have a special debate on the subject because we will hear many new things. It is certain that it is undeniable to adopt these laws and to use the public debate on amendments if it is found that amendments should be acted on. So I think and suggest that we both vote for principles at point 11 and point 12.
ParlaMint-BA_2010-02-23-0.u7221	Thank you very much. Does the promoter have anything to say? Okay, thank you, here's what they say isn't necessary. If you think... Here you go, ma'am.
ParlaMint-BA_2010-02-23-0.u7222	Thank you very much, Chairman. The Honorable Chairman, distinguished MPs of the House of Peoples, so here, I would not now repeat what is contained in the reasoning of the law itself. And the promoter, or editor, better said, is the Institute of Intellectual Property agreed to organise a public debate and I assume that you have information, already agreed that March 3rd will be a public debate. We will ensure that all interested people get and relevant documents and we will try to get 38 as much information as possible on new institutes, on everything that has been proposed, and I think I can say that most of it is something new than the existing Copyright and Related Rights Act, which is not contained in that document.
ParlaMint-BA_2010-02-23-0.u7223	Thank you very much. We're voting on the bill's proposal in the first reading. Who Is For? Is there anyone “against ”? There isn't. "Contained"? We unanimously passed the bill in the first reading. We are voting on this conclusion by the Commission. Who Is For? About the public hearing of what we... Is there anyone “against ”? There isn't. I also find that this conclusion has been unanimously adopted. Point 12. Ad. 12. Proposal for a Law on collective exercise of copyright and related rights (first reading) – Proposer: Council of Ministers of BiH We're voting on this law. Who Is For? Is there anyone “against ”? There isn't. Unanimity. We vote on the conclusion, too. Who Is For? And this conclusion went unanimously. Point 13. Ad. 13. Proposal for a Law on Amendments and Supplements to the Law on the Fundamentals of Transport on Roads to BiH (first reading) – Proposer: Council of Ministers of BiH
ParlaMint-BA_2010-02-23-0.u7226	Well, here, and this is one of the laws that represents meeting one of the priorities of the European Partnership. It is in fact the harmonisation of road traffic laws with communal law, the provision of technical and safety standards. The Commission, equivalent in the House of Representatives, organised a public debate on 18 February. The results of the public debate will, of course, be the subject of embezzlement in this law in the second reading, so here we are only proposing to support the principles of this law at today's session. Thank you.
ParlaMint-BA_2010-02-23-0.u7227	That's the same conclusion.
ParlaMint-BA_2010-02-23-0.u7228	/microphone is not enabled/
ParlaMint-BA_2010-02-23-0.u7229	48 hours, what? Okay. Who's answering for a word? Mr. Slobodan Šaraba, here comes Mrs. Majkić.
ParlaMint-BA_2010-02-23-0.u7230	Thank you, Mr. Chairman. Dear colleagues, I must say that I have not long since attended a more interesting and contentable public debate than a public debate on this bill of law that has shown full polarisation of views. On the one hand, there were representatives of the Ministry who went out with claims that the bill was good and good and quality, and on the other hand, to say, people from the field, representatives of auto clubs, auto school, auto moto alliance, who had seriously challenged this law and its amendments and complemented it, making numerous remarks, claiming that these were only cosmetic changes, that a number of other supplements that were meant to enter this law had not been found in its text and that it was simply a great regret that one kind of debate was not organised before this law was sent into parliamentary procedure. Their comments were also made in this direction that this law was not in line with the Vienna Convention as well as making numerous other remarks on the text of this law and on subordinated additions that were not found in this text, which were to be found. I would really like to hear from the Ministry's representative, especially in this section regarding compliance with the Vienna Convention, whether this remark that has come from the representatives of the Auto Alliance is correct or not, as well as on the very fact and indeed my personal regrets, I will repeat it once more, which has not allowed these people to participate in direct amendments and additions to the text of this law, because I am convinced that here on the benches today would have far more content, far more quality and far better changes and additions to this law than we have now. Thank you.
ParlaMint-BA_2010-02-23-0.u7231	Thank you very much. Mrs. Majkić.
ParlaMint-BA_2010-02-23-0.u7232	I was a witness when this law was passed in 2005, and the beginning of his work was in 2000, and in 2005 we passed this law. So 150 amendments were made to 250 members. There was so much dissatisfaction with this law that there was: one moment the question is whether the law should be rejected as such and whether it is possible to change the law as it is. We know how long it took to make sublaws. We know what the situation was in that area. Here, today we have changes ahead of us, these are the first more serious changes that occurred after the adoption of this law. But what we don't see, as we haven't seen then, is that those who have defended the law that it is just as BiH, or a country that is preparing for European integration, is: it can't be seen now whether its adoption of BiH will get an internationally recognised driver's license. Because today we have a recognised form but we have no content. That means when our people go abroad, they cannot, as foreigners in BiH do, directly replace a traffic permit in BiH for a traffic licence from the country from which they come but must take place again. This means that the driver's license in BiH is internationally unrecognized. I'd like to know, and if this ministry had answered the question, what else do we have to do to get that driver's license internationally recognised? And I'm quite convinced that the key answer to that is the guarantee of quality and the required level of knowledge of the driver. I'm absolutely convinced of that. And how to guarantee that BiH has the necessary level of knowledge when more than four years, so since the adoption of this law that I've been talking about, we still don't have valid tests to pass a driving test, we don't know who their author is, no review has been carried out, their quality has not been confirmed. Today in BiH, different people who touch or do not touch the area of which we now have the opportunity to talk about selling our own tests. The other day there was a promotion in the RS, he was doing tests for passing driver's exams, he was doing one machine. The task force that was supposed to be in the Ministry to finish this job never finished, so we have a canton level, or county, at entity level, we have a completely different literature to prepare for the driver's exam. The insufficient training of our children is a danger on the way, killing a large number of people because BiH has not properly resolved the issue. So, the countless rules that came out of this. The key issue is training, i.e. driving exams remain problematic. We know that even one of the people who was suspended recently because of CEMT licenses, he was publicly selling his tests. So it's all about which BiH needs a good idea. So it's a question of corruption that we often talk about. As it was related to CEMT, it is also tied to this area. We said there was a recent public debate, we heard, I wasn't on it, but then I had a chance to contact different people. I've also called the competent experts in the area, and I've talked to the auto school representatives. They believe that out of 256 members 41 as many as there are laws this way, 90 members are changing. Somewhere there's a regulation that would tolerate it if there weren't a few members inside of those 90 members that were covered but I didn't get caught up in it, it's more important what the point is. The key question is whether the state has taken responsibility for passing driver's exams and who is conducting the driving test activities. We were very unhappy in our time when the area was being done by entity MUPs, and I believe it was also organized at the county, or cantonal level, and we knew that the driving exam could be bought. Today, the passing of driver's examinations by this law, which was passed in 2005, was transferred to the authority of the Ministry of Education. The Ministry of Education was surprised at what hit them, and it took them a long time to organize and determine what they were up to. And how do they arrange to pass driver's exams? So more than 400 people in BiH are involved in the procedure of passing the driving exam. One Croatia, which is approximately at BiH level, ends the whole process with 80 people. These are the people who are in the driver's examination agency. These are government officials who are on order going to the places where the driving exams are organised. I asked the Ministry of Education of the Republic of Slovenia today if they think it's a bad way to do it, so the Ministry of Education is taking on this number of people. They told me that maybe the degree of corruption that is achieved in this way, when people are working practically on a deal with undefined working hours as much as they are going to be, so we're closing them out, says, a year's time, and a less possibility of corruption than to hire 80 people who would have a permanent working relationship and who would also have someone come to them and said -- that I lay it down, here's so much money. Professional associations believe it should be an agency, because they believe that the current Ministry of Education has left it to people who came from the administration of the MUP, who were doing the job there and have now installed themselves in these interrogation groups and that they are practically far from the profession. That's what the Auto School Association says. Whether it's good or one or the other, I'd like this ministry to say what it thinks, whether the state should absolutely have it under control, not just laying down, but especially what's important – control of the driving exam process. So, who's responding and who's tracking what's going on in that area, not to let what happened to us happen, but to the commissions that were organised in the MUPs. Also, there are a few things that I think are more missed by the ministries. There are a few concepts that are mentioned. We have, it's mentioned in the text 'professional organization', but it's not explained as a term. We have "expert training," in Article 61, we have this rule about this professional training and we also have no concept of it. And finally, I am obliged to say, I have received a letter from the Ministry of Education and Culture of the Institute for the Education of Adults of the Republic of Slovenia saying that the processes, the talks, the arrangements have been conducted all along, but that this ministry has one moment deviated from the agreement concerning Articles 46, 48 and 79. I would really ask that if the agreement was made to stay as we had just had all the principles respected, because it would have to be amended to act on those members, and this had no need, we should have passed laws without amendments. Now, I'd like a few answers that are key to me, which is: who is responsible for the very process of passing driver's exams? Thank you. 42
ParlaMint-BA_2010-02-23-0.u7233	Thank you very much. Alma Čolo, then Božo Rajić, right?
ParlaMint-BA_2010-02-23-0.u7234	I have no doubt that there are interesting lobbys when it comes to auto school, when it comes to auto moto alliances, we all know that, but here I would just remind myself of a letter signed by the director of the Directorate for European Integration, Ms. Nevenka Savić. So, in the process of passing the law, we need to get the opinion of the Directorate. It explicitly states here in this instruction that this law represents a fulfillment of one of the priorities of the European Partnership for BiH, that it is approaching..., in road transport, technical and security standards, social rules and approaches to the market, which would significantly contribute to better regulation of this area and compliance with obligations on the path of European integration. It lists exactly three regulations of the European Council and of Parliament which refer to this law, and I think that today, when we are discussing the principles of this law that amends the basic law, we do not need to discuss what has been resolved by the basic law and what it has done when it was adopted has caused a number of polemics by those whose interests have been threatened by the adoption of that law. Thank you.
ParlaMint-BA_2010-02-23-0.u7235	Mrs. Majkić, replica.
ParlaMint-BA_2010-02-23-0.u7236	When we change the law, and it's one difficult law, it's our duty to listen to all those that don't mean we respect but listen. Finally, the Directorate for European Integration says: 'In this sense, it can be concluded that the proposal for a law on amendments and additions to the Law on the Fundamentals of Road Safety in BiH is partly in line with the aforementioned legal acts of communal law', so in part.
ParlaMint-BA_2010-02-23-0.u7237	Mr. Božo Rajić. Here you go.
ParlaMint-BA_2010-02-23-0.u7238	Thank you, Mr. Chairman. I will not join those who so respect the Rules of Procedure, then the debate on principles turns into a debate from Ponci Pilat to today. So, Mrs. Majkić has searched the whole law throughout her lab, and that goes beyond that, not the second but the third phase of the debate on the law. It's not about the new law, it's about amendments and additions to the existing law whose principles are absolutely clear. I'd ask those in love with the rules of conduct to respect those rules when it comes to them. 43
ParlaMint-BA_2010-02-23-0.u7239	Thank you very much. Who else is answering for a word? Maybe we should give the word to the promoter. Here you go. Mr. Rudo Vidović.
ParlaMint-BA_2010-02-23-0.u7240	Thank you, Chairman. So it was to expect that such an important law, here at first reading, had the interest of MPs/legislators because it really was an important law that was right away in 2006, here's how we heard it, after the adoption actually showed that it was not good and that it should be changed. And of course, is today what the Ministry has prepared as a result of its activities to amend and supplement the existing law that is in force and which has over 250 articles. These changes were designed to actually correct the bad provisions adopted in 2006. What is most important for our Ministry of Communications and Transport is that this law be brought into line with the relevant interior ministries, so entities and cantons, or county, and, of course, entity ministries of transport and communication, and in that sense, a lot of activity has been invested. It is true that the opinions of the competent authorities for education, i.e. entities, cantons and Brcko District, in this sense, have actually been co-operated with as well as with traffic/sports colleges, and the constant difference in access between auto school and motor clubs is present in the application of this existing law and this difference has been demonstrated in the public debate. The representatives of the Ministry will take into account, that is, any objections raised at the public hearing, regardless of what they looked polarised, but reasoned remarks, as the aim is now in the process of amending and supplementing this law to correct what is not good. In fact, what is the biggest problem in applying this law? Because actually the Ministry of Transport and Communication prepares, processes, here is Parliament's adoption, and in the application of the law especially when it comes to traffic control are actually other institutions. Other institutions also organise driving exams. They're organizing the education of future drivers. Therefore, the Ministry of Communication and Transport is not obliged to educate new drivers, but it is in charge and this Article 182 implies that this ministry as sublegislative acts will produce a unique catalogue of test questions that actually authorities in charge of education in county, entity, or Brcko District should actually respect. At this point I believe that there must and must be a willingness of competent educational institutions to respect the elements of catalogues. I believe that we will come up with these details and that, in fact, in cooperation which will now be found in the production of sublegal acts, so also in harmonising these issues, there will be understanding and auto-schools, car moto schools, which are in some way in charge of education or education of future drivers when it comes to the theoretical part. Therefore, believing that all the efforts made here will not solve all the issues, but I think a good result has been made, that important shortcomings that have been recorded in the application of an existing law that is still in force have been eliminated. Thank you. 44
ParlaMint-BA_2010-02-23-0.u7241	Thank you very much. I'm putting the bill to the vote. Who Is For? Is there anyone “against ”? There isn't. One voice “against. ” "Contained"? It's nobody. With one vote "against", I realize that the draft Law on Amendments and Supplements to the Law on the Fundamentals of Traffic Safety on Roads to BiH was adopted, first reading. We are now voting on the Commission's conclusion, which is 'to extend the amendment phase for the draft law to 48 hours before the meeting of the Committee on Foreign and Trade Policy, Customs, Transport and Relationships of the House of Peoples of the Parliamentary Assembly'. Who Is For? Is there anyone “against ”? There isn't. "Contained"? I also find that we unanimously adopted this conclusion by the Commission. Moving to the 14th point of the agenda: Ad. 14. Discussion of the Annual Information and Security Policy Platform, with the opinion of the Joint Commission for the Control of the Work of the BiH Intelligence and Security Agency – Proposer: BiH Presidency
ParlaMint-BA_2010-02-23-0.u7244	Thank you, Mr. Chairman. 45 Here, you have already been through the reports of the Committee for Oversight over the legality of the work of the BiH Intelligence and Security Agency. So, it is important just to remind yourself that last time, the House of Peoples rejected the Commission's negative opinion and returned it to create a new one, that there were two conclusions of the House of Nations, in fact two proposals that the House of Peoples accepted: one Mr Filipović to be deleted from the text of the Annual Platform of the word 'BiH' for going out to the open sea', as well as a proposal by Representative Rančić to transform this text in a way that'BiH's right to go out on the open sea', with words added 'in line with international law'. None of these two proposals were received at the Committee by the required majority. Then came Dr. Ljubić's amendment, at the session itself, which proposed that the dispute be resolved in a way that " BiH's right to go out to the open sea" was replaced by the words "on land and sea, in accordance with international law", which also did not get the majority. And, practically, again, we have a negative opinion of the Committee on Legal Affairs of the BiH Intelligence and Security Agency, with... this proposal for a conclusion read by the chairman. I, as rapporteur and as the first vice-president, can propose, in accordance with what has already been said, the House of Peoples not to accept negative opinion because in this way we would exclude from the procedure further proceedings, because it would practically drop this offered Annual Platform, so that we do not accept negative opinion but accept their proposal for a conclusion and return the entire material to the BiH Presidency which is the first direct proposal for us, although the Council of Ministers is in the previous phase. Thank you.
ParlaMint-BA_2010-02-23-0.u7245	Thank you very much. Is there an annual platform promoter present here? It's not. In accordance with Article 101. The Dom Rules of Procedure declares the commission's opinion after having received a reasoned proposal. Here, we've got a proposal. We vote. Who is "for" the Commission's opinion? We have to vote "against" if we send it to the Presidency, right? Who is "for" the Commission's opinion? Two are "for". Who Is “against ”? "Contained"? If the House does not accept the opinion, it requires that a new opinion be drawn up based on new guidelines set by the House and within the time limit set by the House. The Commission has a proposal in this conclusion that in the event of a failure to agree on proposals adopted at the House's Annual Information and Security Policy Platform session, the BiH Presidency approved it. Here, Mrs. Majkić. 46
ParlaMint-BA_2010-02-23-0.u7246	She hasn't passed and she's definitely back to the presidency. There's no need for that conclusion. So he goes back to whoever suggested it, if it didn't pass. So there's no need because it's not defined as a conclusion, more like a description.
ParlaMint-BA_2010-02-23-0.u7247	The secretary tells me that we still need to vote on opinion. Here, Mr. Božo Rajić. Here you go.
ParlaMint-BA_2010-02-23-0.u7248	I just wish it wasn't misunderstood. I have made it clear that the difference between rejecting the negative opinion and accepting this conclusion: accepting the negative Opinion procedurely, the Annual Platform is coming out of Parliament. And that's why, Mrs. Majkić, why shouldn't we if we want the Annual Platform to come back to us. And that's why I suggested we go to what was finally,...to accept the Commission's proposal, its conclusion that we accept and return the Annual Platform to the Presidency in the hope that, later on, when it looks at it, it will return to the process with some new facts. If we accept the opinion of the Committee, for us the Annual Platform can no longer enter the procedure. So that's the difference, Mrs. Majkić, and I wouldn't want my obvious to be misunderstood, and you'll vote each and every one of you according to your beliefs.
ParlaMint-BA_2010-02-23-0.u7249	Okay. I think we should then vote on what the Committee has proposed, which is: since no agreement has been reached, that the Annual Information and Security Policy Platform is returned to the BiH presidency which it has approved. Right? hazime, there's something you wanted to say. Here you go.
ParlaMint-BA_2010-02-23-0.u7250	I do not dispute at all that we are voting on, which is logical, with a note that our review or their consideration of the Annual Platform focuses on these controversial and proposed things. So, the part that we're content with is that they're looking for a solution to that.
ParlaMint-BA_2010-02-23-0.u7251	Okay, about that. We'll write an explanation. Are there any other discussions? There isn't. Can we vote on this commission proposal with this supplement Mr. Rančić gave? Who Is For? Is there anyone “against ”? There isn't. 47 We return the Annual Platform to the Presidency to reconsider in terms of those objections which have been made to the House of Peoples and the differences that have been made. We're going to point 15 now, Ad. 15. Consideration of the conclusion of the Joint Commission on Human Rights, the rights of the child, young people, immigration, refugees, asylum and ethics, adopted at the 18th session of the Joint Commission, held 5. 2. 2009 The Joint Committee on Human Rights, Rights of the Child, Youth, Immigration, Refugees, Asylum and Šaraba, adopted a conclusion asking the BiH Parliamentary Assembly to launch an initiative with the Office of the High Representative to review all decisions of the High Representative that have been removed from certain persons or that the High Representative will make a decision to transfer this authorisation to the BiH Ombudsman's institution or any other institution. The Joint College of the two Houses of the Parliamentary Assembly considered the above conclusion of the Joint Commission and decided to address the High Representative to give an opinion on this conclusion by the Joint Commission. The House of the Parliamentary Assembly of BiH would be declared after receiving an opinion. High Representative in BiH delivered 7. 8. In 2009, the opinion of the Parliamentary Assembly of BiH. So, in line with this conclusion of the Joint College, we today need to make a statement on that conclusion. I'm opening a debate. Mr. Šaraba. Here you go.
ParlaMint-BA_2010-02-23-0.u7253	Thank you, Mr. Chairman. In fact, at the very beginning, before I say some things, I really want to thank all those who, three years later, have allowed this issue to finally be found on Parliament's agenda. So, thank you to the members of the Commission for Human Rights and, of course, to the members of the College on behalf of 109 removed officials, as many as are presently present, who, without any connection with the right and rude violation of the rights, have been replaced against the fundamental human rights set out in the BiH Constitution and the entity's constitutions. Since 1998, when senior representatives started using bona fide powers to replace officials in BiH, and according to official information, 177 officials at municipal, cantonal, entity and state level have been replaced so far. The change decision was more than this number since some officials, such as Dževad Mlaće and 48 Edhem Bičakčić, replaced twice from different positions. I said shifts started in '98. the year six officials were replaced; '99. — 27; 2000. — 28; 2001. — 9; 2002. — 20; 2003. — 6; 2004. — 74; 2005. — 3; 2006. - none; 2007. — 1; 2008. – 1 and 2009 - two officials. A review of the decisions by high representatives, as High Representatives made: Karlos Vestendorp made 11 decisions, i.e. replaced 11 officials, Volfgang Petrič 72, Pedi Eždaun 90, Kristijan Švarc Šiling none, Miroslav Lajčak two and Valentin Incko replaced two officials. Of the 177 removed officials to date, special decisions by the High Representative have been rehabilitated 66, which means that there are 111 officials in BiH under sanctions, including the largest number of Srbin, but there are also Hrvat and Bošnjak. More specifically, this number is 109, after Mehmed Alagić and Đuro Bulić, who were not rehabilitated, died in the meantime. The first decision to use the bona fide powers of a certain official was made by Karlos Vestendorp, who was on March 4th, '98. replaced Per Raguž from the position of Chief of the Municipality of Stolac. That decision hasn't been withdrawn until today. The last shifts took place last year when Valentin Incko replaced Radoslav Jovičić and Hilmo Đonko on June 6th. The reasons why officials were replaced were different. The basic reason always, or most often, was to disrespect the Dayton Peace Agreement. That's why it's for example. The first major Serbian official to be removed was Dragan Čavić, who was removed on October 8th, '98, but was rehabilitated already on July 30th, '99. year by the same high representative, Karlos Vestendorp. Of course, shifts continued in the next period. The highest decision was made, as I said, by Pedi Eždaun – 90 decisions, which began rehabilitation at the end of its term in 2005 when the first rehabilitations started and the last rehabilitations took place about two months ago when seven officials were rehabilitated. The basic reason why I raised this issue and why I insisted on it throughout this period is that at the end of this year, the Office of the High Representative will close, when these people will remain in one situation that will be truly difficult and catastrophic for them. They will therefore find themselves in a situation of de-certified police officers, and we know what happened to this category of people in BiH and what problems they had and what problems BiH had afterwards. I therefore believe that this conclusion proposed by the Human Rights Commission was mostly good. I felt that this conclusion should be complemented and therefore I would suggest to you a conclusion that I consider to be an honorable way out of this situation and allow these people to find themselves equally in a situation with other people who are rehabilitated or against them by the authorities. So, I propose two conclusions: 'All removed officials who have so far not addressed with a request to abolish sanctions are obliged to do so within 30 days. After the expiry of this deadline, the House of Nations shall request that an initiative be launched at the Office of the High Representative be carried out within 60 days to review all decisions of the High Representative which have removed certain persons or that the High Representative make a decision which will transfer that authority to the domestic institutions. So, to the institution of the BiH ombudus, or to another institution." I believe that this would be an honorable way out of this situation, and I believe that this would allow these people to find themselves in a situation within the next three to four months that the High Representative will decide on their 49 status, so that he rehabilitate them as he has done in these 66 cases so far, to initiate proceedings with certain institutions, if against those persons he needs to initiate proceedings, or to give their status to domestic institutions, which was really just. Thank you.
ParlaMint-BA_2010-02-23-0.u7254	Thank you very much. I'm opening a debate. Who's next to the word? Mr. Božo Rajić.
ParlaMint-BA_2010-02-23-0.u7255	I'm in a dilemma again, but I don't want it to be understood that I'm opposed to the initiative, though, but I'm still in the middle of a dilemma if we're dealing with a business that we're not authorized to do. The institution of the High Representative with the Bosnian powers is something that is not in our jurisdiction, and it seems to me that this proposal for a conclusion has included one word that we cannot vote here. We can't say that sanctioned persons are obliged to do that then and then, we can't commit anyone to it. We can say that they are being called or that they have the possibility that those who are being replaced can do so within 30 days, and the other conclusion goes on. So, regardless of what I think it is, the Office of the High Representative may refer to this in a sovereign way. So he can take it into knowledge and react to it and he doesn't have to. But because of people, because of their rights to consume their political and civil rights, especially in the election year, I support the proposal of these conclusions, and we will see if any of this will benefit, although we all know well, and Mr. Šaraba knows as a lawyer, that they were irrevocable decisions, without the right to a legal remedy, therefore all these facts must be kept in mind when we talk about this. But here, let's try to intrigue the Office of the High Representative that he, by his conscience, and, if necessary, at the request of these persons to whom it concerns, will try to correct something or at least remove it. It is not in accordance with our nature or with the legal system of the whole world that punishment is eternal. There are life sentences, but there are no eternal punishments. In that sense, I support and I think we should support this proposal. Mr. Šarab, I think this word should be corrected, what I suggested. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-BA_2010-02-23-0.u7256	Thank you very much. Who's on the phone? Mrs. Majkić. Here you go.
ParlaMint-BA_2010-02-23-0.u7257	Well, I think we all have, everyone has an opinion, and especially for people we know have been replaced without being able to defend themselves, without being able to prove them wrong, without being able to respect their basic human rights, which is done by an institution that's 50 in charge of protecting human rights. We have seen this recently in the case of Jovičić, who is the most severe, the most severe injury that could have been done to one man. But I warn you to look at the sentence in the letter from this High Representative, which says: 'The revision of the change decision shall not apply to any person who has been the subject of a decision taken by the High Representative to whom the same person has been removed from public office for reasons directly or indirectly linked to the lack of co-operation with the International Criminal Tribunal for the former Yugoslavia. These decisions will remain in force until BiH fully fulfils its obligations to co-operate with the International Criminal Tribunal for the former Yugoslavia." So we know that most of these people were killed because they were in contact with or with Karadžić, who is in The Hague, or Mladić, who is known not even in Serbia. What does BiH have to do with it? So, I think it should be supported, but I also believe, colleague Šaraba, that... this first conclusion simply makes no sense: 'All removed officials who have not addressed so far with a request to abolish sanctions are obliged to do so within the time limit.' Well, we, Parliament, are not going to impose on people to apply. Let's just say that the House of People calls them in is fine, but that we're making the conclusion that we're looking for... so I don't think that makes any sense. And that this part relating to reviewing that decision, that is to say, to possibly send that decision to the Ombudsman who will continue to deal with it, because such thinking has existed, I agree that it remains, but I don't think this first conclusion makes any sense.
ParlaMint-BA_2010-02-23-0.u7258	Mr. Šaraba. Here you go.
ParlaMint-BA_2010-02-23-0.u7259	So here's just one brief explanation why I went to include this first conclusion in the text of these proposals. Namely, the letter delivered by the Office of the High Representative to Parliament here, following the conclusion of the Commission delivered to it last year, states that the decision to lift the ban is made by the High Representative after a process initiated by the person who has been removed. So, I know that so far, a large number of people have been addressing the kancelarija with a request, with a request, with an act that asked for it to be abolished, and I also know individuals who didn't. So this sentence gives room for all the removed officials to address in order to consider the request. So, of course, Parliament does not need to do this, but we will find ways to inform all people through an association that exists to guide these requirements in order to find ourselves in a situation equal to all those who have initiated the request. Thank you.
ParlaMint-BA_2010-02-23-0.u7260	Mr. Adem Ibrahimpašić. Here you go.
ParlaMint-BA_2010-02-23-0.u7261	Thank you, Chairman. 51 So we are also inclined to vote for these conclusions just enough to allow these people, what the High Representative will do, it is, again, his thing. And to get out of this, in this first conclusion, so we can start with -- we call everything, etc., and we delete -- they're due. And then it'll be an ego and we'll all vote. What will... we'll see. .../microphone off/... 30 days from the day of publication of this, this will probably be published. There, that's it. Is it okay, Šaraba?
ParlaMint-BA_2010-02-23-0.u7262	I'd like to ask Mr. Zrn to make any suggestions if he has anything. Perhaps you'd like to take your word for it, Mr. Zrna, if you have any amendments or something. Anyone else answer for a word?
ParlaMint-BA_2010-02-23-0.u7263	So we can vote to change this the way I'm about to...
ParlaMint-BA_2010-02-23-0.u7264	Please dictate for a stenogram what needs where, what changes, what sentences.
ParlaMint-BA_2010-02-23-0.u7265	Here I will dictate, 'We are calling on all the removed officials who have so far not addressed the request for the lifting of sanctions to do so within 30 days.'
ParlaMint-BA_2010-02-23-0.u7266	Just be careful, the words 'all the changed officials in BiH', to know who we are calling.
ParlaMint-BA_2010-02-23-0.u7267	They're not anywhere else, just us.
ParlaMint-BA_2010-02-23-0.u7268	You see, I'm not into calling everyone, so it turns out we're calling some of the defendants. Alma, here you go.
ParlaMint-BA_2010-02-23-0.u7269	Oh, I don't really know, this is a question... We have addressed the High Representative in front of the Commission, and we are responsible that the High Representative is constantly following, that this is a permanent process, meaning that he is reviewing all the requests submitted. And whoever wanted to take it could have done it. So now that we're calling someone who didn't want to do it, I really don't see the point. I will be restrained, because here in this country have been replaced by so many judges and prosecutors in judicial reform who did not have the right to appeal, so no one has allowed these people to appeal to the High Court and Prosecutor's Council to return them to those positions. I'd like to be a state prosecutor, I've been a candidate for the Attorney General, so I don't know if I could reapply just because I was a member of the 52 SDA, just because of that, and no one has ever rehabilitated me and given me that opportunity. Therefore, I will be abstentioned to this proposal of yours.
ParlaMint-BA_2010-02-23-0.u7270	We have two conclusions now. The first is the conclusion of this Commission on Human Rights, the rights of the child, the youth. We vote first on him, and after that on Mr. Šaraba's conclusion, right.
ParlaMint-BA_2010-02-23-0.u7271	/no microphone turned on/
ParlaMint-BA_2010-02-23-0.u7272	Here you go.
ParlaMint-BA_2010-02-23-0.u7273	Chairman, if you please, an intervention that might help with the text proposal offered by counterpart Zrno and with which counterpart Šaraba agreed. Instead of 'calling everyone', this 'all' bothers and, if it's going to ease a little bit, 'calling', because right for everyone and right for everyone, we invite anyone who wants to, so 'call'; I think the professor will agree, therefore, because it is in some way: we invite officials who are so far, so we invite them, and not all of them. I mean, that's if it'll help a little. [[Common discussion]]
ParlaMint-BA_2010-02-23-0.u7274	We're dealing with something that's not our job. [[Common discussion]] Here, let's vote, let's see. This certainly doesn't do any good, but here we go. Okay, here's the first conclusion of the Joint Commission. Who is “for ” this conclusion?
ParlaMint-BA_2010-02-23-0.u7276	It's the same conclusion as the two of these, like the two Šarabin.
ParlaMint-BA_2010-02-23-0.u7277	Who is “for ” to see? Here, 10 is "for"? Who Is “against ”? "Contained?" One. Two votes "against" and one "abstained". That conclusion has passed. 53 Then, Mr. Šarab, there's no need to vote on your conclusions, is there? There. We move to the next item of the agenda, that's 16th point: Ad. 16. Selection of three members of the Management Board of the Agency for the Development of Higher Education and Quality Insurance for a period of three years (proposed single ragn-list of candidates of the Interim Joint Commission of both BiH Parliamentary Assembly homes) At the 37th session, the people adopted the conclusion of the Joint College of both homes, named Hilma Neimarlija, Ivo Mir Jović and Drago Ljubičić in the Temporary Joint Commission of both homes of the Parliamentary Assembly for the selection of three members of the Management Board of the Higher Education and Quality Insurance Agency. At the 62nd session, I appointed Sead Jamakosmanović, Martin Raguž, Branko Dokić, as well. The interim commission has sent us a proposal for a single ranking of three candidates, which are Aida Abadzic-Abadžić-Hodžić – Bošnjakinja, Vlado Majstorović – Hrvat, Miljan Popić – Srbin. The House of Representatives voted individually and named Aida Abadzic-Abadžić-Hodžić, the Vlada of Majstorović and Popić Miljan as members of the Management Board of the Agency for the Development of Higher Education and Quality Insurance for a period of three years. I give my word to the First Vice-President of the Commission, Mr. drag Ljubičić. Here you go.
ParlaMint-BA_2010-02-23-0.u7279	I thank you, Mr. Chairman. I don't know if there's anything I need right now to comment on what you've exposed and what we have in the materials. This is in front of delegates, if the process of the House of Representatives has passed, I think there is no need, all the stages in the Commission have passed, the Commission has made quite an effort, had several meetings where it has tried to look at all those criteria and to conduct a good debate with all the candidates who have applied for the competition and, behold, we have come to these proposals. Thank you.
ParlaMint-BA_2010-02-23-0.u7280	Thank you very much. Is anyone answering for a word? He's not answering. We're approaching an individual vote. First we vote for a candidate from the Bosniak people who had the most points, that is Aida Abadzic-Abadžić-Hodžić. Who Is For? Is there anyone “against ”? There isn't. 54 “Contained”? One. I find that Aida Abadzic-Abadžić-Hodžić has been elected member of the Agency's Management Board. We now vote on a candidate from the Croatian people who had the most points, that is Vlado Majstorović. Who Is For? With one "abstained" voice, I find Vlado Majstorović has also been elected. And we vote for a candidate from the Serbian people who had the most points, that's Miljan Popić. Who Is For? "Contained"? With one abstention, we have also selected three members of this agency. Moving to point 17, Ad. 17. Appointment of three members from the People's House of the Parliamentary Assembly of BiH in the Commission for the Election and Monitoring of the Agency's work on the prevention of corruption and coordination of the fight against corruption Article 17. The law on the Anti-Corruption Prevention Agency and the coordination of the fight against corruption: 'The Agency's selection and monitoring committee has nine members, three representatives from the House of Representatives, three from the House of Peoples, two representatives from the academic community and one representative from the NGO sector. The Commission is appointed by the Parliamentary Assembly of BiH." Today, we must appoint three members from the House of People in the Commission for the Selection and Monitoring of the Agency's work on the prevention of corruption and coordination of the fight against corruption. The House of Representatives named Milorad Živković, Nik Lozančić, Beriz Belkić, as listed in the commission. I'm opening a debate. Any suggestions? He has the view of the College that members of the College should also be as they are in the House of Representatives in this commission. Shall we vote? Who Is For? Is there anyone “against ”? There isn't. "Contained"? I find that Mrs. Majkić, Filipović, and here I have been elected to this committee in front of the House of Peoples. I find that we have chosen these members from the House of Peoples. 55 On the agenda of today's session we have eight points left, that is to give consent to these agreements. Can we take that one vote?
ParlaMint-BA_2010-02-23-0.u7282	/no microphone turned on/
ParlaMint-BA_2010-02-23-0.u7283	Here's the secretary warning me that we're voting on a proposal so that we can do everything with one vote. Who Is For? I'm opening a debate now on these agenda points. Niko one's answering. Can we now vote on all these eight agreements? Who Is For? I understand that we have agreed to ratify all these eight agreements. And that's how we ended the 43rd session of the House of Peoples of the Parliamentary Assembly. The next session is March 23rd/March 2010. Tomorrow's a joint session, you know. Thank you very much. The seat is closed at 1400 hours.
