ParlaMint-BA_2010-03-16-0.u33083	Comrades and fellow MPs, ladies and gentlemen, honored guests, continue the 73rd session of the House of Representatives. Regular guests were invited to attend the session. I welcome all present guests as well as media representatives. According to service information, there are 27 MPs present at the session. Dear MPs sent their justification: Šemsudin Mehmedović, Bakir Izetbegović, Azra Hadžiahmetović, Milica Marković. Ambassador Zlatko Lagumdžija has announced a delay. I find the session has a quorum for full-time work and decision-making. The first part of the session is completed by the realization of the point 3 of the proposed agenda... and we move to the fourth point. Ad. 4. Proposal for a Law on Anti-mining Action in Bosnia and Herzegovina – Proposer: Council of Ministers of BiH, Law No 01,02-02-8-54/09 of 3. Six. 2009 (second reading) – a delayed statement at the extension of the 71st session of the House, held on 10. 2. 2010 At the extension of the 71st session, a statement on this law was postponed. The relevant Joint Committee on Human Rights, the rights of the child, youth, immigration, asylum and ethics is 16. 2. In 2010, she submitted a request to postpone the plea until the 73rd session of the House to allow for the submission of amendments in accordance with Article 118(3) of the Rules of Procedure of the House. Lejla Klokić is 3. 3. In 2010, she submitted three amendments, which read: Amendment I. I. Is there a need to read these amendments? There's no need. Those amendments are in line. You also have a letter from the minister about it. I'm opening a debate. Dear Ambassador Martin Raguž. You signed up? Dear Ambassador Husein Nanić. Here you go. The debate is about amendments. Here you go. 2
ParlaMint-BA_2010-03-16-0.u33085	I thank you, Chairman. In fact, I've had one really previous question past the agenda points, if you'll allow just one proposal to the College. Since we already have the practice of continuing the sessions, that we cannot finish in one day, I would suggest that you plan for future meetings to be held for two days from the obligations that we really have and are planning in these weeks when we do not have meetings of Parliament, so that you may also predict these sessions to be... for a period of two days so that we can prepare ourselves for other activities.
ParlaMint-BA_2010-03-16-0.u33086	I thank you for your suggestion, but order must be respected. You have the president of your club, he has an extended college. Please, through the president of the club at the Enlarged College, initiate that kind of leadership of these sessions and we will discuss this issue there. Let's move on. Dear Ambassador Lejla Klokić. Here you go.
ParlaMint-BA_2010-03-16-0.u33087	Thank you, Your Honor. Dear colleagues and colleagues, distinguished members of the Council of Ministers, esteemed guests, I will only briefly remind us again that we are on the sequel to the 71st session of the House of Representatives held on 10. 2. In 2010, we postponed this statement on the Proposal of the Anti-miny Act. The College of the House of Representatives is at its 123rd session of 16. 2. In 2010, he considered and respected the request of the Joint Commission on Human Rights, Rights of the Child, Immigration, Refugees, Asylum and Ethics to postpone a statement on the same, which was actually scheduled to be held on the agenda of the 72nd session scheduled for 17. 2. 2010 to 10. 3. In 2010, in order to submit new amendments to the Rules of Procedure of the House of Representatives, in accordance with Article 118(3) of the Rules of Procedure of the House of Representatives. As the same requirement is respected, the Joint Commission held a series of meetings with the Ministry of Civil Affairs and, of course, with Minister Sredoj Nović and representatives of donor countries to agree on the submission of these new amendments. To the satisfaction of all, I must point out that we have reached an agreement and that we have agreed on these three amendments that you have already received, which, in fact, relate primarily to donations from international organisations and governments of foreign countries, organisations that represent donors that act in accordance with BiH's laws. It refers further to the control of these donations and the ministry's obligation to report to the BiH Council of Ministers, the Joint Defence and Security Commission of the BiH Parliamentary Assembly and donors on progress in the field of mine action, in line with reports delivered by anti-mining agencies in BiH. 3 I just want to remind you that this law if we adopt it, and we should adopt it, is on the one hand a condition for the implementation of the Action Plan for implementation and anti-minor action strategy in BiH for the period 2009. - 2019, and on the other hand, it is our international obligation. I, dear colleagues and colleagues, urge you today to support these proposed amendments to the anti-mining legislation because we will receive a very important law in this way, and we will also ensure continuity in financing the field of anti-mining action by the international community which, I must point out, has been extremely active in BiH in the past years to solve this problem and which in the future, I hope, will be an active participant in the field of anti-mining action, in order to finally cleanse our country of the remaining mine-explosive assets and to ensure our future generations a happier and safer future. Thank you.
ParlaMint-BA_2010-03-16-0.u33088	Thank you. Dear Ambassador Remzija Kadrić. Here you go.
ParlaMint-BA_2010-03-16-0.u33089	I thank you, Chairman. So we finally have the 'demined law' in front of us thanks to these donor amendments, the three donor amendments that are shown under the code of new aspects in Article 109(3) of the Rules of Procedure of the House of Representatives. What are these new aspects of this law looking at? So in amandman II.. submits a report to the Council of Ministers, here is just to add a new aspect... 'To the Joint Commission on Defence and Security of the Parliamentary Assembly of BiH', and that is good, not that this law goes to the Joint Commission on Human Rights and Refugees. And it's important to this new aspect. amandman II. Article 19 (1) indent d) adds a new indent that reads as follows:... 'Donations from the private sector, international organisations and foreign governments', etc., although in Article 19(c) and (d) the same items are provided for. Therefore, the sources of funds are envisaged, literally in indent c) and d. For these reasons, it would be good to, when adding this attitude (2) (although it is really incorrect to set things up like this) say: the funds of the position (1) of this member; then should be added if we want to remain consistent, here stands 'except for the adjective' of this article managed by the Ministry. Then it should be added - except for the indent c), d) and e) of this member, administered by the Ministry. So here the goal is that the Ministry can manage the funds, when it comes to demining, from the budget, and as far as donations from the private sector and international organisations are concerned, that these funds are not managed by the Ministry but managed by donors. What's the point of this, we'll probably come back, probably in a position, sometimes someone's going to investigate and form investigative commissions to investigate donations, for those reasons. But all when you add up and 4 subtract, here's a good thing that we've got this law, that donors will probably be satisfied with these solutions, but it would be for the sake of clarification so that there aren't certain dilemmas: that in this attitude (2) you add that... the words of the assets of the item (1) other than the paragraph c), d) and e) and then you definitely separate who can manage the funds from the donations, the means of demining. So, the Ministry manages budget funds, and donors manage private sector funds and international organisations, etc. Thank you.
ParlaMint-BA_2010-03-16-0.u33090	We don't have any more logs. We close the debate and move on to point five: Ad. 5. Proposal for a Law on Amendments and Supplements to the Law on the Basicity of Traffic on Roads in Bosnia and Herzegovina, Proposer: Council of Ministers of BiH, Law No: 01,02-02-3-8/10 of 19. 1. 2010 (second reading) At the extension of the 71st session, this law was adopted in the first reading. The Transport and Communications Commission organised a public debate on 18. 2nd and 8th. 3. submitted a report with eight amendments adopted which become an integral part of this law. I'm opening a debate on the draft law in the second reading. There are no reports. Dear Ambassador Momčilo Novaković. Here you go.
ParlaMint-BA_2010-03-16-0.u33092	Mr. Chairman, distinguished colleagues and fellow MPs, members of the Council of Ministers, I have watched this report by our commission and I must say that if it compares to the law then we here seem to have a problem with some adopted amendments. Namely, amandman I. speaks of Article 22 of the Law, and it is seen that the word (3) is also added behind the word'station (2)', i.e. the number (3) is added. There is no, which would be logical, in this report of the Commission's explanation of what it is. Because, look, we have been very often in a situation here to criticise the promoter for not providing us with the original text of the law so that we can follow what was going on, or what amendments to the law are subject to the new law on amendments, which would be logical then that this commission is acting on exactly the same principle. 5 Amendment VI. Article 83(1), Article (2) and Article (3) shall not be subject to the law, or points (1), (2) and (3), and shall not be subject to the law and may not be accepted as amendments. Also point (5), point (6) and point (8) are not subject to this law on amendments to the law and can also not be subject to amendment or can these amendments be adopted on this Commission. I think that this committee here has made certain failures by adopting amendments that are not subject to the law, that is, to members who are not subject to the law, and that, practically today, by adopting this law, we are, in fact, questioning the application of this law. I would really like that when we adopt this law and come out in the “Official Messenger” that it is not subject to any doubt in its application, i.e. the regularity of its adoption and the regularity of its application. What is also the fact that a number of more serious problems have been highlighted in the public debate than those accepted by the amendments, i.e. those treated with amendments and accepted. A particular problem is for those MPs who were not in the public debate, who got this transcript of public debate late so that simply on the basis of the public debate they could not or did not have time to invest the amendments, which in fact lost their full meaning in some way, because it would be logical for all those who are able to make amendments here, therefore in business, to make amendments, to have received this transcript of the public debate before the deadline and to see what the problems are and what should be affected. The next one is the illogicalness – and I must say that my failure to act as an amendment for these earlier reasons – is the fact that we today have... actually a serious problem. In fact, we, and we all got this material from this association or the auto school association, have a situation where we are defined here by the ministers and the competent authorities, or by the competent departments, when it comes to taking driving exams so that we can have a completely different way of passing driver's exams in one country depending on which authority is in charge, in this case the departments are competent, prescribed along with their own minister of law. Look, it's a very serious problem. I am sorry that I did not act as an amendment because here is the only solution, a practical solution to the creation of an association or a driver's test agency that would have its own framework at BiH level, and at entity level, the possibility to implement a rule that would completely identically resolve these issues throughout BiH, which would be minimum, means necessary for all those who pass the driving test. In order to perhaps resolve this issue, here I will propose something, with the repetition of mine that I have been late with these amendments, I will suggest that, given that amendments that are not members, or points that are not subject to the law, are adopted today delaying a statement on this law, and that we task the Commission to take one more look at these adopted amendments which may be and which, in my opinion, are very controversial and that, possibly, MPs, since this transcript of the public debate has not arrived in time, also means that other MPs can submit other amendments. I will deliver such a proposal to the House and I appreciate that, first of all, for this first reason, it is a possibility for some members of the law to be challenged later, I appreciate that it would be good for the House to support this proposal. Thank you very much. 6
ParlaMint-BA_2010-03-16-0.u33093	Thank you. I hope we can make some of that clear here today. Dear Ambassador Drago Kalabić, replica. Here you go.
ParlaMint-BA_2010-03-16-0.u33094	Mr. Chairman, I apologize for using it this way, not in accordance with the Rules of Procedure, but I have one question for the College, since it is informally circulating information that the SIPA and the Prosecutor's Office of BiH or who is already taking action in some areas in BiH this morning and that they are on the list among other high-ranking state officials, and also in this building or members of the Council of Ministers, so please ask: Is there any way to get any information about it, given the agenda and all that awaits us today? It would be good if that wasn't true, but I can see that already all the information around here is saying that something's going on, it would be our turn to get if there's any chance of getting information at least what's going on.
ParlaMint-BA_2010-03-16-0.u33095	There's only a chance that we can finish this session so we can make an emergency new one, this is very difficult to organize at this point. If there's anything going on today, I'll share it with you. Dear Ambassador Branko Dokić, discussion. Here you go. _________(?) [[no microphone turned on]] Please, this would be a business intervention and a question to the Kolegijum if it's possible. I said in front of the Kolegijum that it's hard to find in the Rules of Procedure an opportunity to get information like that. If I get something off the record, I'll share it here with you. And I don't know what this is about. So this was a question for the College if it's possible, I said it's very difficult to do. Here you are, dear Ambassador Dokić.
ParlaMint-BA_2010-03-16-0.u33097	Thank you, Mr. Chairman. My fellow Members and fellow Members, distinguished guests, I must say that I did not understand in some elements a colleague of Novaković. I understand he wasn't very comfortable reading all the details. If it were clear then you'd see that except for one amendment that these are all technical corrections to the 7 proposed amendments. And here as a signer, I just served the services and the Commission and the Ministry who sat together and looked at the observed technical mistakes and corrected here and I, to get their form, signed behind them. So in authenticity or... behind the accuracy of this is my secretary, or the secretary of the Commission, not mine, and of course a group of people from the Ministry of Communications and Transport. That's what it's all about. About the transcript and this material was done all over the Rules of Procedure. Whether it could be different or not, it's an open question now. I can only tell you that the public debate we held was very substantial, very diverse and that a lot of people participated in this public debate. We had to stress and underline several times what counterpart Novaković underlined in his discussion, that we could only talk about amendments to the amendments. I would say that 60% of the public debate was beyond the context of the proposed amendments. Therefore, the Commission has proposed to the Ministry to review these amendments, i.e. the suggestions that were and if the assessment of the need to re-enter this process is complemented and the amendments to the Transport Safety Act and the conclusion is also that, if with these amendments and with previous amendments that we have passed 50% of the members to make the revised text of the law, because it confuses the application of all of this. I also have to warn my fellow MPs about something, because I've been in this movie for a long time, and what I'm about to say has been a public debate. The one who is not daily in this area, when he listens to representatives of various associations, comes to the conclusion that this question can only be solved by no other means and ask yourself a question - and what has not been solved so far - and then you hear the other one and you get a completely, completely wrong picture. Already here, here is a colleague, Novaković, who suggested something that I am convinced, and above all in Banja Luka would not be accepted. One of the amendments that came in late, we were looking for, we had the understanding that it might be included if it was realistic that he could pass, then we got from the Ministry of Information to create a riot in this area, so that it would just create the possibility that every canton has its own education system. And that's why we said -- it remains what it is that this rule (I don't know who it was now, it doesn't matter at this point) with coordination with institutions dealing with the issue of education eventually signed by the minister, state minister of communication and transport to ensure uniformity and that we don't have a situation that...
ParlaMint-BA_2010-03-16-0.u33098	Mr. Dokić, you had a replica.
ParlaMint-BA_2010-03-16-0.u33099	I didn't have a replica.
ParlaMint-BA_2010-03-16-0.u33100	And you had, I apologize, a discussion. 8
ParlaMint-BA_2010-03-16-0.u33101	No, I had a discussion, and I haven't finished my discussion yet.
ParlaMint-BA_2010-03-16-0.u33102	There'll be a replica later.
ParlaMint-BA_2010-03-16-0.u33103	But here's nothing more to say. Thank you for reminding me to rationalize the weather.
ParlaMint-BA_2010-03-16-0.u33104	Well, it's the amendments, it's the second reading. Dear Ambassador Momčilo Novaković. Here you go.
ParlaMint-BA_2010-03-16-0.u33105	I guess I have a need to explain what's not in line with practice. Here is amandman vi, amandman VI, Amendment vi, Article 83, is amended and read, you see, in Article 239 (12), Article 83, does not mention point (12) anywhere but point (3), point (13), point (18), point (21), (22), (30), (31) and (34). And these dots are subject to an amendment to the law. So these dots are subject to change.
ParlaMint-BA_2010-03-16-0.u33106	No microphone turned on
ParlaMint-BA_2010-03-16-0.u33107	Please, Mr. Dokić! Mr. Dokić, please, so you'll have time on the line to say, don't do this. Here you go.
ParlaMint-BA_2010-03-16-0.u33108	And we have adopted an amendment that acted on the meaning of points (12), (17), (20), (21), (22), (29), (30) and (33). I repeat that this can be controversial and nothing else. If everyone else thinks this can't be disputed, even the president of this committee that it can't be at all controversial and that this is all okay, there's no problem. Look, I have no reason more than Mr. Dokić I want this law to be undeniable in his application. Therefore, I will suggest, however, that this commission re-analyzes whether it is amandman vi. In accordance with the practice that we have. If it is, I don't mind if he stays like this, but now I've listed nine members to whom the law and members who are through amendments, interventions to members through amendments have worked. I don't think that's in line with our practice and previous attitudes. Thank you.
ParlaMint-BA_2010-03-16-0.u33109	Now you can explain. Here you go.
ParlaMint-BA_2010-03-16-0.u33110	Thank you, Chairman, you're right, but I thought, I had a good desire to cut back on the story, but that wish was tried to be realized the wrong way, and I apologize for being a little distracted. kolega Novaković, one attitude had previously been changed in earlier changes, and it had all been disrupted, and besides, here you have the novices and let them explain to you, I have no reason to convince anyone now. This is really about technical mistakes. I didn't spot them, let me say it right away, even though I'm a signer. And I think I was fair when I explained how it came that I was the signator of this.
ParlaMint-BA_2010-03-16-0.u33111	The second vice-president, Mr. Beriz Belkić, come in.
ParlaMint-BA_2010-03-16-0.u33112	Dear colleagues and colleagues, therefore, when a person thinks that something is done and even intends to say that this is a good example of how quickly it was done, because you can see that the first reading was 3. 2. and we already have behind us and public discussion and consultation, this time we had complete material along the subject, and so I was simply even in the dilemma to report and to commend this procedure both from the point of view of speed and from the point of view of the involvement of NGOs public debate and the completeness of the materials we received. I am the most informed that we are not silent; therefore, Mr. Novaković has established, I am not an expert, immediately to be understood, for the regulations in the area of security and I dare not enter into the metrics, but here is the procedural and from the point of view of the validity of the things that we bring here Mr. Novaković has argued that he has concerns about the regularity of this law, or its applicability that when it is published in the Official Journal that it will not be applicable. This is where the Resort Minister sits, his associates sits, experts in this area, and it's logical for people to come out and tell us if it's okay. One more thing not to say, Mr. Novaković said one thing that I completely agree with, so it's unacceptable that in one country there are so many differences, of course, a certain number of differences may be, but so many differences that you're talking about, and I agree, 10, but unfortunately here we find these solutions difficult, if I understood well what you were talking about. And I think it would be best if the resolution minister told us whether these solutions that we thought were fully agreed, unanimously adopted with your consultation, would it produce a practical confusion and do we have a practical felerical solution?
ParlaMint-BA_2010-03-16-0.u33113	Thank you. Dear Ambassador Slavko Matić, discussion. Here you go.
ParlaMint-BA_2010-03-16-0.u33114	Thank you, Mr. President. Dear colleagues and fellow representatives, respected guests, the safety of road traffic is obviously living matter and the process of continuous improvement and security is an obvious and constant task, not only of this ministry and this Parliamentary Assembly but also of all institutions that have access to road safety and there will also be a need for obvious and frequent changes and additions of laws that regulate this area. After all, we could hear it all in a public debate. You heard about the reviews of this public debate from Mr Dokić and I would fully agree with it, except perhaps the thoughts I said at the Committee on Transport and Communications that the timing of the public debate was not quite the most convenient, since through public debate we heard a lot that did not directly refer to the Law on Changes and Supplements, but to the original text of the Law on Road Safety. These proposals, suggestions and remarks, of course, were not able to be respected this time because they were able to be respected through amendments to this law only as regards the matter and the text of the proposed Law on Amendments and Supplements. On the other hand, what I am about to say is more about the replica of Honorable colleague Novaković, given that we at the Committee have concluded that a lot of what has been said through public debate and does not refer to the matter of the Law on Amendments and Supplements should be forwarded to the Ministry of Transport and Communications in order to make use of and any basis for future amendments to this law, on the other hand, and Mr Novaković of the amendment that he has prepared and has not been able to submit them in time: it would be good to forward them to the Ministry to them in the light of the subsequent amendments and additions. I would really support Mr Dokić's thinking that the first seven amendments that this commission has accepted are of a technical nature. The only essential nature of the eight amendments that we have accepted on this committee is the essence of this law. The original text of the Law amending and supplementing the Road Safety Act treats Article 83 at even nine points, and I see no reason why other points, if the amendments are of a technical nature, cannot be treated with these amendments and additions and I do not think it would be good to postpone the adoption of this law. All that is missing in this law can be incorporated into new amendments and additions, and I repeat again: we have heard all in the public debate that these new amendments are clearly necessary and complemented. What was still missing in the public debate we organised is a reasoned impact analysis from the implementation of the current law. Many were 11 data that could not be determined that they were real but was more of an assumption and an assumption that certain provisions contributed to or did not improve safety, but we do not have an actual field analysis which has led to the current application of the Road Safety Act. It would be good for some of the next changes and additions that we really do have, so we can see what this should possibly change further in this law. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-BA_2010-03-16-0.u33115	Thank you, too. Before I give my word to the honourable Minister Rudi Vidović, I would like to inform my colleagues and colleagues and present in Parliament that there is nothing going on in Parliament that is not in accordance with the law and the Rules of Procedure, that we have received information from our Joint Service that no one has entered Parliament, neither from SIPA nor from any other institutions, so there is no need to raise any... about this, the problem. Dear Minister Rudo Vidović, please.
ParlaMint-BA_2010-03-16-0.u33116	Dear Mr. Chairman, distinguished MPs and MPs, therefore, we have before us a law that has been here for four years, I would say, working on his changes and additions. And here are all the facts that are being heard here today saying that since the very adoption of this law, in 2006, we have actually seen certain shortcomings, and since then, a lot has really been done here and have consulted, I would say, the competent institutions, entity ministries, certain associations, auto school, colleges, etc. And all of this was actually heard in the public debate organised by our competent committee, and in this sense I would like to commend the active participation of our committee, not only in the organisation of public debate but also in the studio approach to this law and in particular the studio approach when it comes to technical repairs, which have been transformed into amendments, which has been discussed more in detail and more on the Commission, and therefore this studio approach will certainly fix this law and there should be no confusion. However, what concerns and what has been said here through public debate is actually the application of this law in reality, which is actually an obligation and other institutions besides those that are here, therefore, that pass this law. And various comments were considered in the Ministry through a stenogram and were not translated into amendments, except here are the amendments proposed by the competent commission. But certainly, the Ministry took into account everything that was said as much as possible. However, another important point should be noted here, so it is the need for harmonisation through sublegal acts that will follow after the adoption of the law. And in the part where there is so far, I would say, the diversity of driving exams, the Ministry of Communications and Transport predicts making, so as to be a sublegal act, a unique catalogue for passing driving exams, which should actually be agreed with the competent entity, or county and cantonal education ministries, which, in some ways, would, with the help of this catalogue, in terms of education of new drivers, remove diversity. 12 Therefore, these amendments should be seen as purely technical, technical, and heading towards improvement in the technical sense of the law. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-BA_2010-03-16-0.u33117	Thank you, Minister, for the clarifications. Dear Ambassador Momčilo Novaković, replica. Here you go.
ParlaMint-BA_2010-03-16-0.u33118	I don't want to replicate either the Minister or anyone, but here I am now from the secretary (I think the Secretary of the Commission, is that right) now a man has explained to me that it is in fact amendments that, in particular, this amandman vi. which refers to the consolidated text of the law, and that the Ministry went with amendments to the law to the uncleaned text and that there was now a problem in this (12),..., (21), (22), (18), (19) etc. I think it wasn't hard to write in this report, so it wasn't hard to write in this report, because if that's the case, if these amendments are the result of that problem, then it's not a problem, so they essentially refer to members who have been changed. But I repeat, the way this report was made doesn't in any way point to that variant, to the care of exactly what I was talking about. Here, given that this is more clear to me now, I will give up the proposal of this conclusion: to return the report to the Commission and... to me there is nothing more controversial. Thank you.
ParlaMint-BA_2010-03-16-0.u33119	Thank you. I'm glad we got this straight. No more reports, closing the hearing. And we're going to the sixth item of the agenda: "Ad." Six. Proposal for a Law on Working Time, Mandatory Breaks of Mobile Workers and Road Transport Recording Devices, Proposer: Council of Ministers of BiH, Act No: 01,02-02–3-2/10 of 8. 1. 2010 (second reading) At the extension of the 71st session, this law was adopted in the first reading. The competent Commission for Transport and Communications submitted a report to 18. 2. with an amendment adopted which becomes an integral part of the law. 13 I am opening a debate on the bill in the second reading. Dear Ambassador Branko Dokić, please.
ParlaMint-BA_2010-03-16-0.u33121	Mr. Chairman, I'll be very brief. So, that only amendment is also technical with an extension of the deadline; given the importance of the law, my appeal is to shorten all the further story and wait until there's a vote and vote it out.
ParlaMint-BA_2010-03-16-0.u33122	Since no one answered and that you missed out on a short story, I'm closing the debate. Moving to 7th point: Ad. Seven. Proposal for a Law amending the Law on Classification of Activities in Bosnia and Herzegovina, Proposer: Council of Ministers of BiH, Law No 01,02-02-7-121 /09 of 23. 12. 2009 (second reading) At the 70th session of the House, the law was adopted in the first reading. The Joint Commission for European Integration, responsible, submitted the report 9. 3. I'm opening a debate on the draft law in the second reading. Dear Ambassador Mehmed Suljkanović, please.
ParlaMint-BA_2010-03-16-0.u33124	Dear Chairman, esteemed colleagues and colleagues, distinguished guests, I was in a dilemma whether I should report for the discussion, that is to say, to make this shorting spoken of by the chairman. I answered more about making a suggestion. Namely, these amendments and additions to this law are one example where reading could be drawn up, one cost could be made first and second reading. There were no..., these are very small interventions to the law, where it is explained in the explanation that the basic reasons for the adoption of the law are to comply with the existing Customs Policy Act of BiH with the relevant European regulations and to create conditions for the rapid and effective and consistent implementation of European customs rules in practice. So I'm saying that I came forward because we're certainly gonna have these kind of interventions, these kind of changes and additions. 14 _________(?) [[no microphone turned on]]
ParlaMint-BA_2010-03-16-0.u33125	The Activity Classification Act!
ParlaMint-BA_2010-03-16-0.u33126	And the old agenda, I apologize.
ParlaMint-BA_2010-03-16-0.u33127	The Activity Classification Act!
ParlaMint-BA_2010-03-16-0.u33128	Okay.
ParlaMint-BA_2010-03-16-0.u33129	Okay, thanks. There are no reports, let's close the debate. Moving to the 8th point of the agenda: Ad. 8. Proposal for a Law on Amendments and Supplements to the Law on Customs Policy of Bosnia and Herzegovina, Proposer: Council of Ministers of BiH, Law No 01,02-02-2-1/10 of 6.1.2010 (second reading) At the 72nd session of the House, the law was adopted in the first reading. The competent Commission for Foreign Trade and Customs submitted a report 2. 3. I'm opening a debate on the draft law in the second reading. Dear Ambassador Mehmed Suljkanović, please.
ParlaMint-BA_2010-03-16-0.u33131	So I'm not going to repeat anything from what I've said,... since we will certainly have these changes and additions in the future; then the proposal there can be concluded on the competent commission and perhaps from the Commission that... the proposal that some of the legal projects that come from the Council of Ministers come to us so that we can adopt, we can shorten the procedure and adopt both immediately and in the first and second readings. Thank you. 15
ParlaMint-BA_2010-03-16-0.u33132	Thank you. Dear Ambassador Slavko Jovičić, please.
ParlaMint-BA_2010-03-16-0.u33133	Thank you very much, Chairman. Ladies and gentlemen, the distinguished representatives of the Council of Ministers, guests of NGOs and, of course, journalists, so it's very simple, it's a law with a small number of members, but very important from this sector of economic policy, which will contribute to making up for a time when I spoke at the last session on lateness. And what is very important, and I always want to point out, to affirm that in the last year we have passed 14 laws in this economic area and sphere that will improve the overall situation in BiH. But, and as Professor Suljkanović spoke, about the shortened procedure, I am not for a shortened procedure, I am for a regular procedure, because if we have waited years for some laws to be amended, then I think we are coming in time, at least in this area we are not late, but it is very important that these laws as this one is adopted today. And I don't think there are any controversial matters, most importantly, all agreed, agreed, respected, fully respected procedure with our competent minister and this ministry, entity governments, all other participants in the chain of adoption of such legal projects, so I just volunteered to support in these laws and to look forward to this pace of work by the Ministry of Foreign Trade and Economic Relations, which went very quickly, to say, to arrive at a time that we were late. And that is quite clear, it is only about the amendments and additions of this law that are fully in line with European laws, so I think that in the coming time some and the next assembly of Parliament there will be no need for these laws to be changed at one session and brought to another, so they are making changes to the third, etc. I think we've done a big thing, but unfortunately, the economy doesn't interest a lot of people in the media, it's interested in those involved in this problem. That's why I just got up to support today's adoption of this law in the second reading, because I repeat, there is nothing controversial, everything is fully agreed and clarified so that I am glad that these laws come and deal with these issues, and not some other things that do not contribute to unity in BiH. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-BA_2010-03-16-0.u33134	Thank you. No more reports, closing the hearing. Moving to the 9th point of the agenda: 16 Ad. Nine. Proposal for a law supplementing Bosnia and Herzegovina's Criminal Law, Proposer: MP Denis Bećirović, Law No: 01-02-5-100/09 of 30. Ten. 2009 (second reading) At the extension of the 71st session, the law was adopted in the first reading. The relevant Constitutional Commission submitted Report 5. 3. Dear MP Momčilo Novaković again defends in the plenary phase of two amendments. There's no need to read them, is there? I mean, there's no need to read these two amendments here, you all have them. Dear Ambassador Denis Bećirović, discussion. Here you go.
ParlaMint-BA_2010-03-16-0.u33136	The esteemed chairman, distinguished colleagues and colleagues, respected guests, media representatives and members of the Council of Ministers, as soon as the law is in the second reading, I would like to remind that this law was delivered in parliamentary procedure on 30 October 2009 and that here is almost five months in parliamentary procedure. In these less than five months, as far as this law is concerned in the parliamentary procedure, it has conditionally passed three parliamentary filters. First, at its 90th session, the Constitutional Commission supported six votes in favour and without any vote against the law. Then, at the 71st session, the House of Representatives of the Parliamentary Assembly supported this law, and then at its 94th session, the Constitutional Commission supported the law in a second reading and, I repeat, twice without a single vote. All MPs had the opportunity to submit an amendment to this text of the law in their business procedure, but only two amendments to the session of the Constitutional Commission arrived within the deadlines prescribed by the Rules of Procedure. And the Constitutional Commission has also in some way suggested that the two amendments be withdrawn, given that such amendments in such a form do not comply with the practice and standards of criminal law. I would like to say today that it would be good to adopt the Bill on Amendments to the Criminal Law of BiH at this important moment for BiH, which prohibits the establishment and operation of fascist organisations in BiH. I think that would be a strong contribution to building stability and peace in BiH, and I think that would be an important message for the EU as well. In an explanation... Directorates for European Integrations have been said that EU countries have regulated this issue in three ways: either through constitutions, or through special criminal laws, or special laws. BiH has not regulated this issue with either the Constitution, nor the Criminal Law so far, nor any special law. It would therefore be very good if we adopted this law today in another reading. And certainly one such law contributes to the security of all BiH citizens and peoples. I must say that both the Bosnian Herzegovic public and the citizens and the peoples of BiH expect the House of Representatives to support this law in a second reading. And I think that by adopting this law, we will send an important message to both the EU and the entire democratic world. 17 In that sense, I believe that the adoption of such a law can have positive effects on the liberalisation of the visa regime and after 15 years, I would say, delays in the adoption of such a law, today we are able to adopt this law in other readings, and then move this parliamentary procedure on this law to another home, the House of Peoples.
ParlaMint-BA_2010-03-16-0.u33137	Thank you. I just want to add to one part of your exposure that the law is five months in accordance with Article 101. The Rules of Procedure, where we have declared ourselves on the Council of Ministers Act which deals with the same issues, which has been a condition for us to liberalise the visa regime and that everything has been in line with the Rules of Procedure that we have in the parliamentary procedure. Dear Ambassador Momčilo Novaković, please.
ParlaMint-BA_2010-03-16-0.u33138	Thank you, Mr. Chairman. You see, I don't think there's a single man in this House today who's not anti-fascist, that there's not a single man here today in this House who supports fascist or fascist organizations. And you don't need to test that fact, because it's a fact. Why did I start this way? Because any debate and suspicion of any provision of this law is treated as support for fascism or at least so far in the media has been treated. This is how I want to express my protest against such a relationship with this issue. When this law was first in the process, I, after that, was a resolution, I then proposed a resolution on the condemnation of communist movements and came across a terrible resistance in the SDP, I guess, for the reasons they considered themselves those who were the heritage of communism in this country and after communism. And this was even treated in a way that wanted to be shaded and in some way defied the declaration they had proposed. I am then and today believe that it may be only for a shade less evil than this which treats this Criminal Law, not much more than for a shade of less evil that could have hit this country. But since this is not the subject of this law,...I have noted this precisely because of the part of the discussion of an esteemed colleague who spoke about the expectations of the public, and you see significantly in the contribution of this to the visa-free regime. Please, it is not a problem here whether an anti-fascist or not an anti-fascist, it is here in previous discussions, not my colleagues, but not just my colleagues, but some colleagues, it has been disputed or I have thus realized that the disputed part relating to treatment, namely the determination of which are organisations and political parties and institutions, associations, fascist or fascist or non-fascist. And that's where we've been looking for solutions. Because in this country and what is historically confirmed is not historically confirmed, that is, we interpret this historical confirmation differently. And that's why I went a little deeper into this problem and suggested two amendments that I was thinking about, and today I think I'm dealing with this particular problem, not about fascism or neofascism, but about the law. So, not formally who's for, who's against, but the essential application of the law in practice. Because in this way a defined question can in practice create problems. 18 I then suggested that this 'historically confirmed' be deleted as means that part of the tex we delete and that we essentially now enter into the solution of this issue, in a way that is meant to define these criteria as a special commission; therefore, to establish that a commission is being established to establish the criteria by which some organisations, institutions, political parties will be defined so that this law applies to them and that it will not be disputed then and that it will not be possible to be misused in any way. So then I said that the members of this commission should be citizens of BiH, an objective person of high integrity and credibility, which means people who are not, of course, do not mean that those who are dealing with politics are not this high credibility, is, and integrity, but I want to say that the next condition is that they are not and do not perform any political functions, military etc., etc. and reflect national, meaning regional, constitutional and every other structure of BiH. The next problem was how to get to that commission, because these people need to be found in that commission. And then I suggested that a committee be formed for the appointment of this committee which would now be, e, already done in a way that is not foreign to us to do, which is that in that committee, neither do I, the chairman of the homes, three members of the entity, and from the Council of Ministers, etc., etc., and to carry out comprehensive consultations with the public and come up with a list of members of this committee... which that committee would propose to Parliament and which Parliament would adopt. The committee would choose a commission and then the commission would set the criteria and finish this job. Be careful, of course, I said on the Constitutional Commission: this is quite controversial from the point of view of criminal law, namely, treating it in Criminal Law. And that's when I said and today I'm saying that this now part of the text that I've invested would be more for the special treatment of this, or special law or lex specialis law that would treat only this problem. I know that when the law was that there was a debate that did not need a special law, it seems to me that today, however, when I look from this distance that a much more acceptable solution is the first adoption of that law, and then after that, the introduction of those provisions into BiH's criminal legislation. And I hope I wasn't too long, I tried to explain what my wish was, or what my motive was to get to the indisputable facts that have been disputed through our history so far. My suggestion, since my colleague has suggested to us, and therefore to me to accept this law, is that it would be good if the motionor really went with a special law, with respect to what I have suggested or otherwise, but in any case in the process, means not a judicial procedure, not a judicial procedure, whether or not someone is characterized in one way or another, but in another extrajudicial procedure, there is a list of those who are registered today, and they belong to a group of fascist and some other organisations that are propagating and all that is written further in the law and, of course, to follow the establishment and the new ones in the next period. So here I am no longer burdening this House, I would ask the Proposer to respect my motives and reasons for which I have debated this way and that this question may enable this issue to be resolved in a slightly different way than what he has suggested. Thank you.
ParlaMint-BA_2010-03-16-0.u33139	Thank you. Replica, honourable MP Denis Bećirović. Here you go. 19
ParlaMint-BA_2010-03-16-0.u33140	Ma, I only answered because of one part of my colleague Novaković's discussion, since the law was in another reading, he was the only one who proposed concrete amendments to this law. In fact, my colleague suggested that it would be a good idea that I, as a promoter, might go with a special law when it comes to this area. About that, I want to remind you of the next fact. Two years ago, when this issue was raised here in Parliament, there was an extensive, extensive and intense debate on this subject, and then most of those MPs who did not support it, right here in the SDP Club suggested that this should not – and that there is a stenogram that I have with me – should not go with a special law, but that this should be regulated within the Criminal Law, in exactly the way it has been done today. Here we are today two years later, we should not forget that debate and therefore have the opportunity to make a statement specifically about this Criminal Law. I also remind you that neither in the criminal laws of Great Britain, France, Germany and Austria, etc. There are no decadent explanations as suggested by the distinguished colleague Novaković. The clarifications will, of course, always provide science, judicial practice and criminal legislation. These provisions are quite clear and are defined in this way in all other European countries.
ParlaMint-BA_2010-03-16-0.u33141	Replica, the second deputy chairman, Mr. Beriz Belkić. Here you go.
ParlaMint-BA_2010-03-16-0.u33142	This is a kind of disagreement with Mr. Novaković, or attempt to cite arguments that do not go in the direction of the acceptability of these amendments that you are talking about. So, apart from what is said on the Constitutional Commission from the point of view of this practice in creating criminal legislation in relation to this content of the amendments, therefore the Commission, the criteria, I suppose, am not a lawyer, that this is not a practice in creating this criminal law, i.e. that some commissions in Criminal Law are being built in. I understand, Mr. Novaković, your good intentions and believing that all of us here really want to sort this thing out, in addition to Mr. Bećirović, that on several occasions we had initiatives and NGOs, here people brought hundreds of signatures, thousands of signatures, handed us laws, etc. So these amendments that go in the direction of one model instead of this model that goes to historical confirmation, so they also have these same weaknesses that you indicate and state as the reason for the needs of the amendments in relation to this historical confirmation. I am absolutely sure, quite certain, therefore, when you look at... and the composition of that commission that this commission, too, will, therefore, simply in this trend and in this enthusiasm, so to speak, feel the need for proof to which people belong, not to say in the trend of nationalism, absolutely not be able to recognize, say, in their own people, some symbols as fascist, neo-Nazi, etc. And there will also be this situation of different interpretations of events so that, in my view, much, much more complicated and difficult to come up with a solution. And it seems to me that the proposer has defined himself at this point as the only possible variant, so that historical confirmation. 20 Also, Mr. Novaković, I could not understand this committee, this humane, you are predicting a solution for Parliament to set up this committee, on the proposal of the "Appointments Committee". I don't know which committee, we here in Parliament, as far as I know, don't have that kind of committee if you didn't mean this Committee appointing the Council of Ministers or you'd be special set up. Here, thank you, I don't need you. So I think this solution proposed by these amendments would be practically inconclusive. The law would be inconclusive compared to what the proposer says. And I think we should really consider supporting these solutions today.
ParlaMint-BA_2010-03-16-0.u33143	Dear Ambassador Šefik Džaferović, discussion. Here you go.
ParlaMint-BA_2010-03-16-0.u33144	Mr. Chairman, colleagues and colleagues, ladies and gentlemen, therefore, the law is in the second reading and I will only say something about the amendment or amendments of the distinguished colleague Momčilo Novaković. Those on the Constitutional Legal Commission were not accepted for these reasons already spoken of, and in fact Mr. Novaković himself spoke of why the amendments were not accepted and Mr. Bećirović as a proposing and respected deputy chairman, Mr. Beriz Belkić. So, the Criminal Law is not written in the way Mr. Novaković proposes in his amendment, and Mr. Novaković himself has honestly said what it is and, believing that Mr. Novaković really has a good intention to remove all possible dilemmas in the application of this law, I would like to say a few things that might help to understand correctly the text of this law and how the law applies when it comes to practice. The law therefore sanctions the founder, then the official person who allows the registration of members of these fascist and neo-fascist organizations, the organisation of gatherings, the highlighting of symbols, the making available of rooms, the production and production of these props, is that right, symbols and sanctions this all together in point 8. related to this sport competition. And the key thing that the law uses when it comes to court practice is these words that say: 'these fascist and neo-fascist organizations or activities that are either symbols or' whatever you want, depending on what it is, 'and if they are historically confirmed as such'. When it's spelled "Crime Law," it's not possible to describe all things to the end. I'll tell you what, the Criminal Law uses the term'severe physical injury'. There's someone who deals with medicine, and especially judicial medicine, he needs to know that severe physical injuries exist as much as you want, and that it's always, as they say, questio facts, it's a question of a specific case, concrete facts. Then someone will come along who understands it so they can tell if it's serious or if it's a minor physical injury. What they say: a fracture of the nasal bone with a dislocation of fractures is a severe bodily injury, and without dislocation of fractures is an easy body injury. So it'll be said by someone who understands it. She's got court practice, she's already built standards. We in Criminal Law already have concepts like xenophobia, racism, spreading xenophobia, spreading racist hatred. The case-law has built standards, built 21 views on these issues. Also, court practice as an independent independent pillar of government in BiH will build standards when it comes to what is said: historically confirmed or unconfirmed as fascism or neofascism, as fascist or non-fascist behavior, and this is simply not possible to specify and describe in detail one faceless norm, as contained in the Criminal Law. The criminal law contains the so-called law. non-personal legal norms. That's why there are courts. That's why there are those who apply the law. That's why there's this third pillar of power and this is their job. They're supposed to be doing this. They will tell us as the Criminal Law now says when it's racial and religious hatred, when it's a disorder of racial and religious hatred and when it's not. We have no record of racial and religious hatred in Criminal Law today. We don't have a description. So they're going to tell us whether it's fascist and neo-fascist behavior or not, symbolic or not, historically confirmed or not. So this is a matter of court practice and this is what court practice should do. Any other attempt to detail it and specify it in the norms of this kind is not possible. And that's why there's a court and there's a criminal law because the court, after all, has its own responsibility. You have, I'll do it again, I've cited an example of a serious physical injury, I've cited these more understandable examples. I've cited an example of severe bodily injury. Let's not make this any more complicated. For example, you have the concept of property damage in great proportions. And you have that notion in Criminal Law. Nowhere is it said what is the property damage of great proportions, but the case law simply follows the situation. That depends on a lot of factors and has a standard. And so that's the standard that's being adopted in court practice. So this question is what would be said is whether or not it – it is questio facts. So, the question of every particular case, for which is the court's responsibility and the system of authority called the Court of Justice, begins with the Court of Justice, through the Court of Appeal, the Court of Cassation, and all the way down to the Constitutional Court, which decides by these appeals concerning the European Convention on Human Rights and Freedoms. And I think it should stay that way, especially it would be difficult to accept what Mr. Novaković is saying: that a commission is being formed to say for a specific case when it is or determine when it is, what it is, and how it is. In fact, it would then be moving problems from the judicial system into something that is not the judicial authority and then further complicate the problem and open up a whole new discussion in a whole new direction and I don't want to talk about it here. That's why when I look at this standard, the way it's conjectured, maybe it could have been better conceived. But we've been trying to do this for several years in BiH. We could say, say, there's been serious attempts in the last six or seven years to make this happen and we can't get to it. Come on, people, let's adopt this, let's get started. To apply this, a lot of the message that this was adopted in the BiH Parliament will help in BiH itself. And I think the greatest value of this message that will be sent all over BiH is that we will be able to solve the problem right away. We want to see, so through application, the case law will iron it out, so let the people who apply this to us later propose appropriate changes to this law. And only at the end of one sentence. So, look, this is including a whole new head in Criminal Law, this is good, this is done by someone who understands this issue, a whole new head in the Criminal Law of BiH, so Chapter XXII. which bears the term 'Operation and establishment of fascist and neo-fascist organizations, use of fascist and neo-fascist symbols'. That's 22. I don't know who he is, I really don't know who he is, but there was someone who knew who he was. He's behind this signing thing, but I'm saying that one of the experts was working, who knows how to do this. Maybe Denis knows about this, too, I don't know, but I think one of the culprits was working.
ParlaMint-BA_2010-03-16-0.u33145	Everybody's doing the right thing. Dear Ambassador Ekrem Ajanović. Here you go.
ParlaMint-BA_2010-03-16-0.u33146	Mr. President, colleagues and colleagues, although my predecessors Belkić and Džaferović presented many things I thought I would bring out, so I would not repeat them, but I feel the need to support this law. In fact, this matter in BiH needs to be regulated and entered into the Criminal Law, so before BiH has bled very much in the last two wars, so it would not be good for us as a state to have one view of condemning fascism which, I must admit, in the world has started to work quite well compared to maybe 40 years ago or more. It's becoming fashion and fashion, and that fashion needs to be sanctioned, it needs to be stopped, it needs to be finished, because I think the fascist idea is one of the worst ideas that has ever come up in the world, not diminishing the idea, the bad idea, the twisted communism that has appeared in certain countries under the dictatorship of certain people, as it was during Staljin -- Stalinism, I know, Čaušesku in Romania, pola Pot who have been killed, if we're to be honest, people who are almost the same as Fascism. But that's what it's all about. I would never tie this up if at this point for these reasons why some communist movements should be condemned that really created works to resolve the issue of sanctioning fascism in our legislation. And that's why I'm all in favor of this bill. Congratulations, fellow Bećirović. I'm sorry that I didn't participate in the creation of that work. Like a man who comes from an anti-fascist family, and I feel like an anti-fascist myself, but about that. I also think that this matter could not be regulated by a special law and it would not be good to regulate it by a special law, because we will remember that law that I have filed on the prohibition of the denial of genocide which was a special law and then most, I will not say the majority, a certain number of parliamentarians insisted that this law be entered into by the Criminal Law and that it should not be as a separate law and, when it has been introduced into Criminal Law, then again that formulation has fallen off, etc. Which we don't need to talk about. As far as the amendments are concerned, I am on the Constitutional Commission and today I will vote against such amendments because I personally believe that this matter can be regulated in another way: if the law on political parties were passed, then precisely what parties or movements can be considered fascist and such parties can be prohibited in that law. I support this law, and since most of my debates are, let's say, and my thoughts say, I wouldn't speak anymore, but thank you for listening to this short speech I gave. I put out means what I feel, which is that I support this law. 23
ParlaMint-BA_2010-03-16-0.u33147	Thank you. Dear Ambassador Remzija Kadrić. Here you go.
ParlaMint-BA_2010-03-16-0.u33148	I thank you, Chairman. The Honorable Chairman, when we talked about this bill and amendments to the Criminal Code in the first reading, I also discussed it then and I said, I spoke to the promoter, although I do not think it was his fault, but I should have acted in an amendment phase to defend these views in such a way, and it was related to the following. When it comes to this Article 250a), it could be even more precise, and it stands, it says: 'Who is establishing or establishing a fascist', it could be added here "a Nazi or non-fascist organisation, association, political party or group that promotes ideas and doctrines that are fascist, racist and xenophobic, which in their name have symbols and marks that are historical validations', could be added 'or which are confirmed by decisions of the international court or domestic court as non-fascist or fascist'. So, throughout history, we know that many fascist, Nazi organizations are confirmed by the decisions of the court, the international court and the domestic court and, therefore, these things would be far more specific. So that's a thing we could do a little bit better, but, no matter what, this law is good, and we need to support it. And these fascists, the Nazis, these things really need to be talked about in principle. I've recently sent a public protest, this gathering of equinox brushes, the Chetnik movement at Visegrad. Therefore, in these matters it is necessary to remain consistent to the end. And I am sorry, therefore, that I couldn't simply miss this Article 250a) if I had made an amendment, so he would have improved this text of the proposal of this law but regardless of which this law is extremely good and should basically support it.
ParlaMint-BA_2010-03-16-0.u33149	Thank you. Dear Ambassador Slavko Jovičić, please.
ParlaMint-BA_2010-03-16-0.u33150	The Honorable Chairman, ladies and gentlemen, when this idea of passing this law first appeared, I was speaking and today. So, a very sensitive subject. Whatever you say, you will be imputed to come from this or that people, to come from this entity, to protect this or that organization. But there are a number of dilemmas here and the only good thing is that a special head is defined in Criminal Law, but too much space and breadth has been left, 24 discretionary rights to courts to say. We are witnesses today, without any arguments, in the media, the fascist army of RS, Serbian fascists. So, to leave all this in the law could be interpreted as such, which would cause inconspicuous consequences and I then sought and pleaded and advocated as today that the court is only competent to say which is a fascist organisation and when it says so, not at that moment but when I get the information, it will immediately be required to prohibit the work of such organisations. We have a series of unexplained problems here and collapsies, all these organizations that anyone else in the illusions of thinking calls that they are or aren't, I won't say either, but they're registered with the Ministry of Justice of this country. So they were given the right to work on their own, to carry out their activities, and no one had banned them from working at the Justice Department. But in the media and here in Parliament and this bill of law, I already know which organisations are alluded to and I am not interested in the names from which people come. I repeat, I'll make my contribution and I'll be the first to do what I did, although I've had severe attacks through the media and various others, like I'm protecting some fascist organizations that don't come to mind. And then I said that my colleagues are not offended: if anyone should stand up for it, then the Serbian people would, because of the tradition and the great evil that Fascism had done to the Serbian people, so we'd have to look a little historically at World War II and this one, but it's really amazing if we bring this and we accept this to the court to say -- the RS Army was fascist and it was attacking the constitutional order of BiH. That's what we have here today. So, we leave too much opportunities and I'm just repeating, which is crucial, we come into cohesion that already this organization is some, here, no matter what it's called, registered legally, allowed her to work both on the ground and through the bulletins and I don't know in public, and we're going to pass a law here to ban that same organization, and not knowing at all who it is and who it really is, and for me, it's a key question of who this organization is and who the competent institution has declared to be fascist. I need these data to vote immediately, not waiting for a single amendment, not waiting for the law, to say today that Parliament is making a decision not to ban them from working, to arrest them all. Of course there are organizations that are causing public harassment, and I'm against it. I don't like gatherings regardless of which organisations, which nations, to do harm to others, to sow fear and shiver, so that from someone together, was not harmless, some allegedly large military formations are being created, the people terrified trying to move out of some areas, fear spreads across BiH. It's all more complicated and complicated situations like this. That's why I can't support these suggestions for the simple reason I don't know what organizations they are. I don't know. Let's have someone here propose who's going to say which is a fascist organization and we all vote for it right now. Which one? But I'm not going to leave a possibility, I say, and a discretionary right to some prosecutor and judge, who's going to fall into his mind tomorrow somewhere in another case that has nothing to do with what we're talking about today: the fascist was the RS Army, punish everything, suspend everything, bring everything in, close everything. That's not possible. It wasn't like that. It is only the right of some individuals and organisations to call certain forms of military, certain NGOs, certain associations without any evidence or arguments. I am completing my debate or discussion, with the the thesis that perhaps the Ministry of Justice should come up with a clearer formulation and say whether it is possible for them to be ordinary on request (and it is known that a non-governmental organisation is registered, enough is three signatures and three members) and not to care at all about what kind of organisations are doing, whether our secure 25 agencies and services are their activities, whether they are jeopardising the constitutional order of this country, whether they threaten, most importantly, minority peoples in return settlements, because they will not come, for example for, here I am saying, in Sarajevo, as there was now a gathering in Visegrad. It is not such a gathering in Sarajevo, it is not possible because there would be bloodshed, it would be chaos, it would be a mess, it would be a new war, if we were open, but it would come to a place where they were safe. Eh, if it's about the Montenegrin Chetnik movement, then there are two names where it's registered. I, I don't think I'm defending it, but there's a Chetnic movement, and they have, as they're called, Ravnogorac and they've registered with the Justice Department, people. Let someone tell me if they're a fascist organization? If they are, they will not be banned today, so that everyone can be arrested. But if they have not, if they have been given the opportunity to operate in the entire BiH area, and of course they choose where they can gather, I said, I can't, anywhere, just work to cause new riots. That's why I don't think this is acceptable. It's not acceptable for many reasons, and I don't want anyone imputing me to defend anyone. I don't think so. But I won't let this law pass like this, these amendments, so discreetly be the prosecutor of the one who's going to plead and say, "Here, we have evidence because some idiot individual, a criminal, allegedly, did something on behalf of my people." In my name, in the name of my people, in the name of Bog, no one had the right to commit. He committed an individual and had to respond or some group that did it. But I need to know which group it is and whether their activity is directed against the constitutional order of this country, against any nation in this country, against any individual, against any institution, against anything that is normal and democratic. If they're making all these anomalies, riots, riots, I don't know, public harassment, of course it needs to be sanctioned and prevented. But you have to know what organizations they are. Who is this institution that will say that this particular organization is such, not that it leaves me with a wide threshold of interpretation that everything is possible. That's why it's not possible to do it like this, no matter how these reactions are going to cause tomorrow how I'm against it. It's just work, it doesn't come to mind. Well, I'm gonna get up first because I know how I've had my problems, but I can't call my victims fascists. No, they're not. That would be pretentious, that would be irresponsible on my part, that would be an accusation of individuals, if I didn't speak, not falling to my mind, folks. Individuals did what they did, but the entire historical context of World War II was unfortunately transferred to this war, and that's how it's going to stay. The historical facts are not explained. The question is, are we ever going to get to the real truth, what was there? That's why I'm asking for an initiative to be launched, I don't believe that a single parliamentary commission, I don't believe that any commission of experts, and there will be even more discussion than in Parliament, I don't believe that any independent commission will say which one is an organisation, which it is not, because it's hard to determine. Everyone has, I said, their truth, and it should be one and indivisible that no one has exclusive rights to it. But we're aware of what kind of country we live in, what interests are here, who came here for what it's all about. So it's hard to look here and appeal to consensus. There's no consensus on this. There's someone there, but I'm asking who now. I don't know. To say: this organization is fascist, neo-fascist, it is forbidden to work, it is deleted from the register and court and here at the Ministry of Justice where they were legally granted legal approval and there are no problems. But the key question is how to get to who this organization is or who these organizations are so that I don't vote on this today, that I would ask two years ago to adopt this. I can't accept this in this way, because I'm saying this broad field of discretion of the prosecutor and the judges will say tomorrow about me who was in the camp that I was a member of some fascist organization and made a rebellion against my own state. It can't pass a law in this concept when you don't know who it is or what it is. We need to know who, what, where, how and whose right it is to say it. 26 Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-BA_2010-03-16-0.u33151	Mr. Slavko, after the fifth minute you said you'd finish, you broke and crossed 10 minutes of conversation. So 10 minutes is a discussion, and you said you were finishing up in the fifth minute. Dear Ambassador Adem Huskić. Here you go.
ParlaMint-BA_2010-03-16-0.u33152	Thank you.
ParlaMint-BA_2010-03-16-0.u33153	Don't just say you'll break in half.
ParlaMint-BA_2010-03-16-0.u33154	I thank you, Mr. Chairman. I'll think in three minutes of saying what I wanted to say. I'm replicating Mr. Jovičić who said a lot of things that I could really agree with, condemning fascism, but he won't support the law on banning fascism, which I think is illogical. And because of that, that's one thing I'm replicating him for. The second thing, he said in one part of the discussion that only the court could determine, and then later he said that he could not give the discretionary court the right to determine, which is the contradiction itself again. I think the court is the only one who's authorized to determine whether an organization is fascist, whether it's Nazi, whether it's xenophobic. And, by the way, I've got a few more things to say. If we don't pass this law, by the way, which I think is very good, at least I, I'm not an expert on law, there are experts here, but they didn't have any objections either, it seems to me that the law contains everything that should be contained in it. After all, the number of amendments that have come is that the law is quite high quality. Me, the only colleague, Novaković, had amendments and he created an opportunity for himself not to vote, not to support it, at least formally. The rest of you, I don't think anyone has the moral right to be against the law right now, had a chance to fix it. So if we didn't adopt this law, I think we'd send a very ugly message to both the local and international public, and I don't think we need that kind of advertising. Any relativation of this proposal, which I say is good, could be understood in my opinion as flirting with fascism, which we also don't need. Because, here, this flirtation with fascism or some sympathy for fascism, I don't think they reflect in any way in this House or in this state. There may be certain things in this law that are not 27 completely, as I would say, ideal, perfectly perfect. I don't see them, but if there are, I think we should let the law walk, that practice shows what's wrong with it. Also, I think we should stop treating BiH as a specific state every time and every opportunity. This refers in particular to what you mentioned to the commission, which was also foreseen or suggested by counterpart Novaković in the amendments. I don't think we need a commission like that because, as far as I know, I've asked around a little, in any country that regulated these things by law, there are no commissions other than the court. So we shouldn't pretend to be retarded where we're not. Because of everything I've said, I suggest that we adopt a law without a big story and criticism and thus send a message to both the local and international public that fascism here cannot liven up and that whoever deals with it or flirts with it will answer for it. Thank you.
ParlaMint-BA_2010-03-16-0.u33155	Here I would give the replica to Slavko Jovičić. Here you go.
ParlaMint-BA_2010-03-16-0.u33156	This one was a good alternative, but I have one more right to the line. Comrade Bećirović, you were before me but it doesn't matter. So, I was alleging -- all the variations to impute, although I didn't think this was a colleague Huskić seriously meant that I was flirting with something, and especially with fascism, I didn't think of it. I was just looking, and now I'm gonna stay at the stand to have someone say which organization is fascist. The parties are gone, at least we know that, although some parties are attributed to it. The city, there isn't, although some cities are attributed to it as being all fascist. I'm asking who's gonna say, who's in charge of saying this is a fascist organization, so call whatever you want, an NGO, government, entity, state, I don't know what?- I'm sorry. So it doesn't occur to me to defend anyone. And I said, today I will repeat the story of two years ago: if anyone should fight fascist organizations, then the Serbian people have suffered the most because they have suffered the most. I do not want to reduce the loss of the Croatian people by fascism, the Bosniak people by fascism, each individual. I don't think so. But the fact that the Serbian people in World War II suffered the most, survived from fascism. Why, then, a normal man, he doesn't have to be a Srbin, stand up for himself, or this, a colleague said, flirted. It's just a matter of work. But I have cited a wide range of these possibilities, but a key question to which someone must give me an answer: which will be a competent institution, a ministry, a court, a prosecutor, I no longer know who, an international organisation say -- this fascist organisation, this institution is a fascist, this association is fascist, this individual is a leader of a fascist organisation, so that I know immediately, I don't know, that I am immediately looking for, I will say and repeat, not a ban but an arrest of such people and detention, because they are destroying the constitutional order of this country. And what Fascism has done to nations, to nations, is known, how much it has suffered. It doesn't occur to me to stand in the protection of those, I repeat, so that you wouldn't happen to tell me again, listen, flirt, just work. I condemn, repeat, ten times, condemn, condemn, condemn, condemn, condemn the fascist 28 organizations and demand that they be banned from labor. But what are they? To tell me, and anyone, they are; I'm about to, I said, not to repeat, it must remain in the stenogram.
ParlaMint-BA_2010-03-16-0.u33157	Dear President, Dr. Milogar Živković, replica.
ParlaMint-BA_2010-03-16-0.u33158	Here, very often from the piety to the MPs I don't answer at the beginning of the discussion and then obviously that the debate goes in the direction in which something has to be repeated, but I want to add and clarify something about this and, since the second replica is to the honourable MP, Mr. Denis Bećirović, I got up before I could say that he could answer a part of the questions that I am very interested in. The fact is that several members of the laws of various kinds fell in the BiH Constitutional Court because they were unclear. The first principle of law-making, and especially important laws such as Criminal Law, must be clear and unequivocal to the end. About the practice spoken of by honourable MP Šefik Džaferović, I understand him, because he cannot get out of the form in which he is today, and that is the judges of one of the municipal courts and that practice in BiH has neither lived nor passed the exam of what the judiciary should be during this period, which is independence and justice. The very fact that you've been hearing these few days that "Mr. Ganić's Crisis Liberation Staff" is at the very top of the President's... The BiH court does not give the right to speak of judicial independence, nor of any case-law in BiH. Therefore, it is clear and unequivocal to say that it is going to the end, not in part and unilaterally. To say what fascist organizations are and even more what they are neo-fascist organizations. Believe me, as a man whose family died in World War II, that I do not list places because we would be far away here, I understand the fear that members of one or another people in BiH have and want this law to clear up this fear through justice, through judicial proceedings against organisations that cause this fear in BiH with that people. I'm up for it, too. If it's the fear of a Chetnik organization, if it's fear... movement, here I am for it to be put into law. But I ask you to stand up loud and clear, Mr. Bećirović, and say here whether the neo-fascist organizations are members of Mujahedin, Selafia and Wahhabi. Say it loud and clear in this House, because it is a fear for my people. And I want you to ban yourself here in this state of BiH where three people live together. Get up loud and clear, everyone else who wants to say that, so let's see if we have a hand to ban it. It is a comprehensive approach to this problem in BiH, not in a unilateral way to talk about it. When you have the strength to talk to us about it, you have the hands of me, and I believe most of the SNSD. Dear Ambassador Denis Bećirović. Here you go. 29
ParlaMint-BA_2010-03-16-0.u33159	Mr. Chairman, however, in accordance with the Rules of Procedure of the House of Representatives, I would remind you that we are in another reading. And we should today, as MPs, since the debate is in the second reading, offer concrete amendments to this law. It seems to me that you've opened up a little debate like we're meeting this law for the first time. So, the first reading we had, and today we had to make concrete amendments, if someone had any objections to some of these provisions. That right of business and that business opportunity was used by one MP, counterpart Novaković, and he delivered two amendments. What are they like? We've discussed this on the Constitutional Commission today. I'd like to ask a perfectly logical question. BiH wants to join European organisations, no one in EU countries has found it appropriate to set up a dilemma: let's now make a list and a list of fascist organisations, etc. Why is it that something that works in the EU, in the EU that we want to go to too, is being put up as a dilemma here and we're looking for an excuse for this kind of behavior? In this law, whoever read it has no nation or faith. There are no Serbian, Croatian, Bosniak or some other fascist and neo-fascist organisations in this law. This law provides for a ban on all fascist organizations, both today and in the future. And that's clear to whoever he wants to be clear to. I think this law, and that's what my colleague Jovičić was talking about, this law needs all the victims, both Bosniak and Serbian and Croatian, and there's no dilemma. I am preparing this item of the agenda and this topic among other things prepared and transcripted from our 28th session of the House of Representatives and that transcript is right here at close to 100 pages. So I got him here. Just when we discussed this topic on April 29th, 2008, a colleague, Jovičić, and not to pick up many other colleagues, put a major grudge on what we then proposed to write down fascist organizations. I don't know why we're doing this kind of salto mortal today, so all of a sudden now, here, when we got a proposal where we didn't list those fascist organizations today, let's open a discussion about how to write it strictly and in law.
ParlaMint-BA_2010-03-16-0.u33160	Time!
ParlaMint-BA_2010-03-16-0.u33161	So, colleague Živković, since the time for my replica is up, but as you will, I can answer your question.
ParlaMint-BA_2010-03-16-0.u33162	Time! 30
ParlaMint-BA_2010-03-16-0.u33163	The real question is in one sentence: Why didn't the Council of Ministers do what you voted for? Why hasn't anything better been offered in the last 15 years? Why have we not had such a law for 15 years, and why have no concrete amendments in the second reading been tabled?
ParlaMint-BA_2010-03-16-0.u33164	Thank you. Dear Ambassador Remzija Kadrić, replica. Here you go.
ParlaMint-BA_2010-03-16-0.u33165	Thank you. So, to this question of yours, and what did Jovičić ask: Who are these fascist organizations? One of the fascist organisations is also a Chetnik movement that the court found to be a fascist organisation. And when we talk about this Ganić case, I don't know how you get that information that some crisis headquarters has been formed to release Ejup Ganić, but when it comes to the agenda, and we'll probably discuss it.
ParlaMint-BA_2010-03-16-0.u33166	Of course, we'll clear that up then. Dear Ambassador Ekrem Ajanović, please. Replica.
ParlaMint-BA_2010-03-16-0.u33167	Mr. President, I'll just say one thing. Mix the Wahhabi movement with a fascist organisation and some political organisation, at the very least, is untasteful. A man may fear someone who wears a beard or who wears shorts or who confesses faith in another way, but in essence you should not be afraid of it because you do not go to the mosque, you do not learn, you do not worship. So the Wahhabi movement is more a matter of the Islamic community and religious relationship than of political parties and fascist organisations. That's it.
ParlaMint-BA_2010-03-16-0.u33168	Thank you. Dear Ambassador Adem Huskić, replica. Here you go. 31
ParlaMint-BA_2010-03-16-0.u33169	Thank you. Here's a piece of the replica my colleague Ajanović took from me. So, selfies, Wahhabi, etc. They are not a political movement and they are religious sects and, as far as I'm concerned, any violence in religion is unacceptable to me. So I find it unacceptable to translate violently into Islam, Christianity, and any other religion, and any form of violence in the faith is unacceptable to me. But there's one thing that's interesting to me and what my colleague Jovičić said to you. I know that Srbin have experienced severe consequences, a severe loss of fascism, but I do not understand why you, representatives, political representatives of the Serbian people, are now opposed to the adoption of this law that prohibits or punishes or considers the punitive work of fascism and fascist organisations. I don't understand that.
ParlaMint-BA_2010-03-16-0.u33170	Thank you. Dear Ambassador Momčilo Novaković, replica. Here you go.
ParlaMint-BA_2010-03-16-0.u33171	Well, you see, I just want a few of these findings to replicate. I absolutely reject some of Mr. Jovičić's views here. Because look, I don't really know how he talks about the Serbian people and any of the people here in this House. Who said anything about that? I refuse any insinuation that a people may be fascist, and especially that here they only want to be one people through this law, as I am absolutely against that in any way, anyone here apologizes for their views and asks for some forgiveness for their views, which I also heard here today. I tried to solve the problem. I guess now it's clear we have a problem. And it was clear before that we had a problem and I tried to solve it. And what I tried, tried to do, and tried to solve it was welcomed here on the knife. I guess with the desire not to solve it. I don't know how else to figure it out. I know the desire not to solve the problem. And I thought we should get rid of him. Please, I don't see why anyone would want an excuse not to accept this law. What is it that the legislator's finding that someone with this right now is looking for an excuse not to accept the law? Why would someone, if we're all anti-fascists, ask an excuse to pass the law, which is fine. Please, either these findings actually bring me into doubt now or they should bring me here. They don't bring me here. I don't see why I'd ask for an excuse not to accept the law. I asked, tried to find a way to make the law practically enforceable, that some things lawyers can't dispute in one way or another. And now colleague Džaferović mentions court practice. So I didn't accidentally connect Communism to this. So what kind of court practice do we have than Communism? Do we have any other court practice that now that we don't have this in law? We only have the one we know who she is. So we know what she's like. And if the historical heritage is just what happened in '41. For years, if it's the only historical legacy of this country, I also think we have a problem. 32 But well, I don't really want to go any further. I tried to be in this sense in some way cooperative, to suggest a solution. And indeed, (college Huskić exits), I did not ask with this amendment for the opportunity to be against, if not accepted, but the possibility of being in favour of this law. I didn't create the conditions to be against, but the conditions to still be standing so that it would be good to deal with this issue positively. Thank you. I apologize for being a little bit.
ParlaMint-BA_2010-03-16-0.u33172	Nothing. Dear Member Azra Alajbegović, a replica. Here you go.
ParlaMint-BA_2010-03-16-0.u33173	Dear Chairman, colleagues and colleagues, I would like to say that this is a unique opportunity in some way to regulate in the Criminal Law the issue of the existence of fascist and non-fascist organisations, because in the parliamentary procedure of the Prohibit Law on the prohibition of fascist and neo-fascist organisations, the denial and demining of genocides, and that even then we had a broad debate, which went through this same time with the exact same specific weight, the same parameters,... I would say, with a negative sign of these problems and differences of attitudes. At that time, we seem to have had some common consensus and common position and the opinion that we will regulate it by criminal law, especially by trying on the Commission for Human Rights, which was responsible for the law at the time, because we had a situation that we said that the legislation of some EU countries and countries is double, which is that in some countries there are so-called countries. Lex specialis law, as lawyers say, and in other countries it was governed by criminal law, so I would give my support to this law and its adoption in today's procedure. I signed up under the line, I used a minute and 19 seconds to comment. The replica would refer to the definition of fascism. The definition of fascism exists in history, it exists in sociology, it exists in philosophy, it exists in life, so, I mean, it can be, it exists in a sense, it exists in every dictionary, and it needs to be read there, and we know right away what a fascist organization it is. I would have another, as I would say, advice is not advice but a recommendation to Mr. Živković, which is to study well the biography of colleagues and colleagues in this House of Representatives and not to minimise their comments the professional credibility of their colleagues and colleagues in this House. Thank you very much. He refers to what he said about Mr. Džaferović, and related that he has never strayed from the municipal court judge.
ParlaMint-BA_2010-03-16-0.u33174	In my head. Dear Ambassador Vinko Zorić. Here you go. 33
ParlaMint-BA_2010-03-16-0.u33175	I wanted to replicate my colleagues Ekrem and Adem, but Adem's out. In fact, the replica is the same, so I thought... that a little joke was made by colleague Ajanović, but I see that Adem says he won't repeat what he says and then Adem says that these three are, is it, the nouns mentioned by fellow Živković, that these are religious organisations. Well, of course, who's gonna start it and say, "I'm a fascist organization." All this can happen through sports society and through cultural society, through a political party, through any religious, etc. So let's not hide behind: Is someone killing on behalf of that organization, is someone scaring someone, is someone defending some of the freedoms that belong to every child, person, etc. on behalf of that organisation, etc. So, is there racism, fascism and all of what counterpart Bećirović here has counted or has not. That's what this is about. Of course no one will say, we, as it says here, have founded or established ourselves exclusively as a fascist organization that will promote fascism. Well, I don't think it's ever been in the history of the world. Don't banalize things around here like that. My colleague Živković, I hope, was serious and I was interested in the serious answer of my colleague Bećirović and I would give him additional time to answer the question asked by Živković, but here he took the time to further criticize the Council of Ministers, but failed to answer the question at that time. Of course, he would always go to the last second if he didn't answer that question. _________(?) I was willing... [[no microphone turned on]] Okay, well, I didn't get into your word and... please all my colleagues, this is a serious question, but I really need to take care of it. Will someone, as counterpart Novaković said at the time of communism, say -- well, he went to church, he crossed over to me, he's fascist. Well, I mean, here in the end, if the real ones were complemented, then the concepts had to be complemented. It was necessary to write in the brackets under the article what this article refers to, because we have business, so I don't have to act amendmentically. The legislator should have seen it by the end of the second reading that his law was not technically correct. No one can make up a subtitle of the article when this is published in the “Official Messenger. ” That's what whoever suggests it has to do. I don't have to change the law. Don't, this law isn't prepared. And I thought I would support something like this, but after these replicas of counterparts Ajanović and Adem Huskić, I'm not sure at all.
ParlaMint-BA_2010-03-16-0.u33177	Thank you. Dear Ambassador Slavko Jovičić, replica. Here you go. 34
ParlaMint-BA_2010-03-16-0.u33178	Out comes colleague Novaković, I didn't say anyone here was saying that. But does he follow the media, does he follow the press? And that's where it's all happening and that's where it's going. So five days ago, the continuation of fascism in RS. Without any arguments, it has nothing to do with the subject, but the words were 'the continuation of fascism'. Will the vote and adoption of these amendments leave, I repeat, the discretionary right of someone there to say that today is still going on. So as long as I repeat more or if anyone wants to understand me, if they will not, his right is his. Well, I'm constantly fighting fascism because fascism has caused, not me, but all of us here, it's caused everyone, it's known what fascism is, who's going to approve it. But I'm saying, given our overall situation, so we're witnessing countless articles, texts, media performances and shows, the continuation of Fascism from World War II was in the previous war, the RS Army was fascist, fascists shot the city from Trebević, fascists attacked, I don't know, here, Serbian fascists did this. So can it be left to call an entire nation, which I was talking about, fascist? It doesn't say six fascists in the Serb people's order were named if they were. By the way, the fascist Serb people have been committing aggression here and here. That, guys, we can't let that happen because that's not how it happened. That people aren't fascist, that's what I'm talking about. And I'm sorry that my colleague Novaković is gone. Well, if he'd listened to the first part, he wouldn't have thought of saying he didn't agree with me, but he should have said... I'm not supposed to be supported, I'm not asking anyone to back me up, neither is he, but he didn't say it's wrong and he wasn't listening to exactly what I was saying. Today, five days ago, I'm following the press, I'm tracking everything, the continuation of fascism in 2010, Serbian fascism. It doesn't even say an individual of someone who would be insinuated, of a movement, but of a Serbian fascism. Is that possible, is it a discretionary right to leave it to some prosecutor or judge to say yes, and so am I, what I said in Parliament or someone else, here, he protects. I'd like you to consider more insinuations, please, my colleagues, to have someone pay my respects to me to protect fascist and neo-fascist organizations. I just said it and I'm done. Not only are they banned from work, but they are arrested and tried because it is an evil that has destroyed Europe that has not yet recovered and lasted and will last. And now fascists are getting arrested around the world.
ParlaMint-BA_2010-03-16-0.u33179	Thank you. Replica, honourable Ambassador Ekrem Ajanović. Here you go.
ParlaMint-BA_2010-03-16-0.u33180	If anyone in this House had replicated me for what I said, I would have understood. But I didn't, I can't understand that Zorić did it, because since we've been in Parliament, he's been acting like he's a believer and a Catholic. He's acting like one. And here, I'll tell him now, in BiH live over 1,000 years of petrovci and Franciscans. Thus, the Petrovites and the Franciscans, both Catholics. So, what difference does it make if... I belong to the Hannefi order, and someone else belongs to the Wahhabi order? What does it have to do with fascism and what does it have to do with the political party? Answer me that. It means total ignorance of certain things about Islam, total ignorance, and on the other hand malice, malice, malice, because everything that is different from what someone would like to see he thinks it's either radicalism or fascism... when it comes to Islam. 35 And to tell you the truth now that in my village where a mosque was made during the war, we who live in that village, we have kicked out the Wahhabi mosque, because we believe that they lead not to someone else to work but to bring the Bosniak people back with their interpretations of Islam and to identify certain things with the past, and this is with medieval things that happen where Christianity has entered Islam... and has raised certain religious servants to distort certain Islamic teachings that were very advanced at that time, very advanced, if you will, which came almost to Paris. I mean, in certain things, we have to be objective, we have to understand. And therefore, Wahabism has nothing to do with fascism but it has to do with religiously different interpretations and teachings that I disagree with. Here's to telling you - that I don't agree with.
ParlaMint-BA_2010-03-16-0.u33181	Dear MP Bećirović, a business intervention. Here you go.
ParlaMint-BA_2010-03-16-0.u33182	Dear Chairman, I just want to remind you that this is still the law in the second reading, that we are in the amendment phase, and you as chairman normally take care of it in the law both at this and at previous sessions. In that sense, I just want to remind you that it would be good to have a debate on the amendments in line with the Rules of Procedure of the House.
ParlaMint-BA_2010-03-16-0.u33183	Thank you. Here's what you heard. Dear Ambassador Sefer Halilović, replica. Here you go. You give up, I thank you. Dear Ambassador Salko Sokolović, please. Wrong, good.
ParlaMint-BA_2010-03-16-0.u33184	Thank you, Mr. Chairman. We've been having a discussion a long time. I think there's been a deliberate replacement of thesis. We're not talking about the essence, and we're trying to figure out a definition of fascism based on how to underline certain organizations, by name and last name here. So my replica is in that direction, to all those who have spoken in this way, that we here do not create the concept of fascism. So we have a law... that requires us to recognize later in the Fascist organization practice. In my opinion, it is simply for those who do so, when we say condemning fascism, forbidding labour, to apply European practice, and probably those who are competent courts in this case will apply this European practice. They have long defined what fascism is, what neofascism is, and I think Europe knows it best because there is no fascism here. It came from a long time ago in Europe, so they recognized it and condemned it and now 36 know what it is. And we need to finally apply that practice, and not here for an hour we want to define what Fascism is, we want to name and name what organizations they are. In fact, we're changing the thesis and we're asking that this legal solution doesn't see the light of day. Thank you, Mr. Chairman.
ParlaMint-BA_2010-03-16-0.u33185	Thank you. Replica, honourable Ambassador Vinko Zorić. Here you go.
ParlaMint-BA_2010-03-16-0.u33186	Thank you, Chairman. Well, I mean, if colleague Ajanović takes my stenogram and what he's been answering to, he's 100% wrong. But here, I'll say I am a believer, I think I'm a good believer. I want to, I want to do no harm and I did not mention – I said that everyone is organized as a religious organization, sports, cultural etc. - I haven't even mentioned Wahhabi yet. And that's why you're attacking me. I just said that Živković mentioned three phonebooks and asked his colleague Bećirović and that he did not respond. But you answer, both you and your colleague Huskić, that it is not fascism because it is a religious organization. Now, that can't be. It can also be in the sports organization of fascism, both in Catholic, Islamic, Orthodox, etc., if they do so. It's my purpose and please read my stenogram so you'll understand it that way. I didn't say against any part of Islam, God Bog, and what you're saying, you've become yourself contradictory. You said you drove those believers away. It is not right to drive the believers away. It is not right to drive out the believers, and you are defending them here in Parliament as believers. And then you pushed them out. And at least once you made a mistake of it twice, defending them or pushing them away. Don't be yourself contradictory. And I'm very careful, especially when it comes to national feelings and religious what I'm going to say. If I've hurt anyone national or religiously in these two replicas of my own, I'm publicly apologizing to him here.
ParlaMint-BA_2010-03-16-0.u33187	Thank you. Dear Ambassador Halid Genjac. Here you go.
ParlaMint-BA_2010-03-16-0.u33188	Thank you. I decided to apply for a hearing after Mr. Živković asked some questions. I think they deserve to answer those questions for reasons that they're hitting on the core of some of the current problems, and I think it's good to get this straight. 37 So we have a law in front of us that talks about supplementing the Criminal Law in a way that would sanction the issue of supporting fascism, neofascism, etc. And that's one problem. Mr. Živković quite rightly pointed out what is the problem for the Serbian people and what is the problem for the Bosniak people, for the Croatian people, and it really needs to be understood. There is indeed fear and ignorance among the Serbian people, and perhaps often confusion about the issue of selephias, Wahhabis, achemys, etc. On the other hand, the experience with fascism and neofascism is quite abundant and we know what it means, for one, for the other, and for the third people. And now the question was to the Bošnjak directly: Are you ready to support to list what is fascism and neofascism? Yes, of course we're ready. There's just a need to distinguish terms. Fascism is what is defined in many protocols, many conventions which we and signatories are, and what you've probably meant to say about selephics, Wahhabis, who really are religious groups, and the classification of religion and religion is huge: only within Christianity there are six-seven groups, besides others, in Islam there are alavits, ismails, necks, sophs, etc., and that is really a question of religious classification. You probably wanted to talk about the terrorism associated with Al-Al-Quaid. And I will be free to actually ask the question: Are you Bošnjak ready to face what constitutes terrorism associated with Al-Al-Quaid, who is sometimes identified with these religious groups, and are you willing to sanction it? Of course we did, and we already did. In the Anti-Terrorism Strategy in the Anti-Terrorism Action Plan in all the laws of criminality, it is highly sanctioned and here all, including Bosniak MPs, were in favour, categorically for. So, as far as terrorism is concerned and the context of the one you've been talking about, you can specifically talk about terrorism, there's no problem, we're ready, and that's what we've done. What's the resemblance between fascism and terrorism and what's the difference? The resemblance is that both end up leading to terrible evil, crime, both. What's the difference? The difference is terrorism is the current issue, the world's problem. And we are part of this alliance to fight terrorism very consciously and very actively signing and accepting all conventions. What else is the difference? The difference is that fascism is an experience from the past that is scarred through neo-fascist forms and that the fight against fascism very often has a prominent preventive note in a way to prevent any and anywhere evil that has occurred. Now, if we're ready to fight terrorism, and that's what we've manifested and passed the law, but Bog and practical measures, what might best be witnessed by actions in Maoca, if we're ready for it, is the question: Are we ready for this preventive fight against fascism and neofascism? Like I said, the Mai action has taken place. There were announcements, prosecutors from the prosecution, from police agencies will say what was found, what was not founded, and these days the Ravnogor Chetnik movement had meetings around Zvornik – at night, at day, in the morning. Ask the returnees of Zvornik how their blood was frozen day and night! Ask at least one of them as MPs from the RS, go ask these people what they were experiencing those nights, those mornings, and those days, and how their iced blood on the song Get ready, get ready for the Chetniks, etc. So we've shown that we want to fight terrorism, against every evil associated with terrorism, but let's also show that we're for the fight against fascism and neofascism. Let's really show it. Because saying that we do not have an independent judiciary, that we do not have an independent judiciary, that we do not have practice etc., after all this Parliamentary 38 assembly has done in judicial reform, so that means calling ourselves to account. That's one thing. The other thing is, it's not that the judiciary is not independent and it's not that we don't have practice, and it's not that we don't have judicial practices, and it's not that this provision of the law is going to cause any misunderstanding because such a provision of law is in every law in the world that treats this issue. So, direct response: we're ready to fight terrorism. We have manifested it in every way possible. Let us show and let us all show that we are both for the fight against fascism and against neo-fascism in order to truly act preventively so that this evil is never again rooted. Thank you.
ParlaMint-BA_2010-03-16-0.u33189	Replica, the Honorable President Milorad Živković.
ParlaMint-BA_2010-03-16-0.u33190	Here's what I used to do. I let everyone replicate, and in the end, of course, I have to respond to a few false allegations and replicas. Believe me, I'd be happy to quote some of the songs practiced by Mujahedin, Wahhabi and Selahijah members, but I don't understand that language and I can't spell that song. And I can imagine how many people from my people who live somewhere near those people who are a closed unit of fear in the bones inserting songs in which they don't even understand the language. And I'm here for this speaker clearly condemned and said... that I am against those, even though it's just folklore units, and this real threat to BiH every day, because I didn't see 600 police officers there and did a search, and we saw where it went and did a search. And it doesn't turn out when we talk about Maoča that it's the Srbin' fault that they made a big police action there to get some nice guys with beards and a little banged-up pants to throw a mockery here in BiH. We're speaking loud and clear here, I haven't heard any of you. And this was just a small test where the SNSD would suggest that when we talk about the Maoča group, which I have cited, they put into the Criminal Law as something that is banned in BiH. You are here clearly and loudly behind these organizations. You didn't even flirt, you defended them with your heart. And that's what it says about BiH. And it speaks of how ready we are to listen to what one people, what another people, what the third people say. You are talking about a unilateral approach, you are not ready to speak openly, clearly and loudly and to talk about BiH, the one that is BiH in the Dayton Agreement, but only the one you see and understand. The second vice-president, Mr. Beriz Belkić, come in.
ParlaMint-BA_2010-03-16-0.u33191	It is not a replica to Mr. Živković but a replica to all those who have brought the last half hour, 40 minutes, into this debate the peoples. And we began to discuss what this people say to 39 of this, whether they condemn this people that. I think that the proposaler's intention, so what can be read, absolutely, in no way has been treated specifically by some people, but has been treated by a new criminal act. And please, Mr. Genjac, I don't know who you were answering to Mr. Živković? Don't answer on my behalf, please, if you answered on behalf of the Bošnjak. And you, Mr. Živković, don't ask what the Bošnjak think. So there are 42 MPs here, we have a motion to amend and supplement the Criminal Law, we've made it clear. Mrs Azra Alajbegović reminded us that there is a definition. Who will find themselves in that definition? Whether cultural society, what Vinko Zorić is talking about, or some religious organisation, Ekreme, will determine that. And let him answer, just that he's my father's. So, we're talking about fascism and neofascism and sanctioning that work. The 42 of us here need to decide and let us act that way. And do not call here a hearing of the people that this people say, what the people say.
ParlaMint-BA_2010-03-16-0.u33192	Thank you. Dear Ambassador Halid Genjac, replica. Here you go.
ParlaMint-BA_2010-03-16-0.u33193	I thank Mr. Beriz for his very useful suggestions. I spoke for myself with full legitimacy, and there's no problem. I spoke for myself. The issue of the relationship between Bošnjak, Srbin and Hrvat towards fascism has been asked by the chairman who is sitting with you at the same table. I believe it was useful to clarify some moments. Mr. Živković, I don't know if we've been following each other all the way. At no point in discussion is justified nor is any organisation and members of any organisation dealing with terrorism, fascism or anything. So I understand very well what it means for each and every one of us, both as citizens and as people, and there's no talking about it. I just think that the manifestation of preparedness that we want to fight both terrorism and fascism and neo-fascism should be brought forward when laws are passed and concrete measures are taken.
ParlaMint-BA_2010-03-16-0.u33194	Thank you. Drago Kalabić, discussion. Here you go.
ParlaMint-BA_2010-03-16-0.u33195	Thank you, Mr. Chairman. Well, I think we're still doing Sisif's job when it comes to this, for who knows which time. To me, there are clear reasons why this topic is put on the agenda. If there is any pleasure, then 40 is the fact that there are no people here who have pleaded to support anything that has to do with fascism. That's enough for me, too. So that's enough for me. There are no people in this House who have said they are not ready to support any action in any sense aimed at fascist organisations, the characteristics of fascism, and I think that's good and that's enough. Everything else takes us to some new situation that we're not ready for right now. You've seen that this whole time, although many insist it's so important, the international community hasn't insisted on this thing since its arrival here. And they could, you know it well, by decree, by impose, by decision, whatever you want. They imposed hundreds of things against our will and even things that proved to be good, which we initially refused, which they thought were important to the functioning of this country. That's what they did. This wasn't even among those tables. They probably know why. On the other hand, when we talk about this, there are a few things I'd like to say. Not those who wish to judge today on quasicommunist principles can bring judgments on this. I can't. Not the ones whose heads are in '70. and '80. when there was another consciousness about this. They don't want anything to change in their heads but they just take that set out of that time and say, that's it. Time's changed. We need to be realistic that time has changed. So I don't think everything's changed, but something's changed. BiH has not opened the lustration process. It would be interesting if people who sit in the highest bodies of this country, who have violated human rights by passing the law by sending the beatings of UDBA, beating people up, and doing what they did, and now they're giving us lessons about freedoms, rights, I don't know either. We were both supposed to be together. Fascism is what is blackest for fascism took place in the period of '41. And '45, but we didn't do this for all sorts of reasons because all the communists went to their national side and disguised themselves a little bit, makeupd up, but the plague remained the same. And nobody would open up about this question and say, "That's what happened yesterday." You have on the street a mass of victims... with a violation of human rights, who still didn't recover today, their rights were violated in '70, '80, '88. You've got people who've been involved in this. You've got mechanisms, no one's gonna open that question, so let's say what's going on. No, that's the part we skip. And we should put all that on the table if we want to solve all the dilemmas, as people open all those processes. Why doesn't BiH open the issue of lustration? Why is one part of the media not in any way inclined to open these questions? Why aren't the Secret Service archives opening? Why don't we do it so we can see if any people are credible? You know, in the Czech Republic, there was me and my colleague Džaferović, so there are some people forbidden to talk about these things, forbidden.
ParlaMint-BA_2010-03-16-0.u33196	I wasn't in Czech Republic.
ParlaMint-BA_2010-03-16-0.u33197	Someone was.
ParlaMint-BA_2010-03-16-0.u33198	I was. 41
ParlaMint-BA_2010-03-16-0.u33199	There was Adem. That's right. I'm sorry. Probably because of the lustration theme, you weren't alike to go to where the lustration was conducted. A few thousand people: they are not allowed to talk about these things simply because they have no credibility. But people created a system where they did it under the law. So, based on the law that the state passed, they carried out the lustration, so they did what they were supposed to do. However, if the process had been carried out in BiH, we could have talked about this more easily today and have people today who are in the period of '60. - '90s. Beating people up on the power of the party at the time and now giving us lectures on human rights and freedoms. Well, that's not gonna happen. And that's the question we need to ask.
ParlaMint-BA_2010-03-16-0.u33200	The second question is...
ParlaMint-BA_2010-03-16-0.u33201	The other thing, Mr. Bećirović, would warn the Kolegijum of Two Things. One, however, means that there are inspectors in Parliament, but that the house of one of the members of the Council of Ministers is being searched. And secondly, there's an MP in the O.R. who you warned so hard last time and showed you the willingness of all three members of the College to impose sanctions on him as well. It's a warning for the College to think about it in the meantime.
ParlaMint-BA_2010-03-16-0.u33202	No microphone turned on
ParlaMint-BA_2010-03-16-0.u33203	No, no, I said you imposed sanctions he didn't hear. _________(?) [[no microphone turned on]] Yeah, because it's not a problem, so if we introduce that method, we'll easily apply it, means communication, so you'll see what it looks like, as far as Fascism is concerned. counterpart Alajbegović showed the mark of fascism. And that's an important thing. In 1938, Hitler acted as a person of the year in the United States and was close to the prize, I don't know if he got it. One year it was Staljin, one Hitler, and that was it. And many have ignored that fact. And his party gained the mark of fascism. These people weren't born fascists. They weren't born fascists. And today, nobody else wants to be made here, except the stereotype from Neretva, and I don't know the others, can't get the characteristics of fascism. And then you have this Mr. Genjac story... So we're done with fascism, with Neretva and 42 Sutjeska. No one can become a fascist anymore. How can he not? He gets it, there's the neo-fascist, gets the markings, leave the story of terrorism. So only with fascist and neo-fascist traits can they add terrorism to themselves. So I can be the triple danger and the greatest danger to this country. But if you don't think I can gain the traits of neofascism by my activities, you're wrong; that's prevention, so I see in this House that the list and the story of fascism ends up in '45. I see it. It's not possible. It's not real. It's not right. So either we have a complete story, not here when Mr. Živković mentioned it. What a complex problem that is. Suddenly it is said - no, religious organizations cannot be neo-fascist organizations. I can, and only if they're Orthodox, then I can. They have fascism genes. It's not fair. It's not correct to prejudge the fact that there's no way to create it anywhere. He's got options everywhere. If society gets out of control and gets out of his way, anywhere will be created. And the third thing is, by which rules today you cannot accuse people and judge them for fascism? Look at our legislation, look at the criminal traits of crimes that are written: What's fascism about not causing racial, national and religious hatred? Has this country given a significant position to international regulations, conventions and others that regulate these issues? What is it, is it forbidden for our courts to apply it? Is it written somewhere not to apply it? It doesn't say, gentlemen, anywhere. They can judge people perfectly normal for these things. Nothing's stopping them. We don't object to any law, any regulation, but it must be based on this kind of dialogue I was talking about. Not at the political behaviour of one party, one MP, one club, which will open up new divisions like today, and the new dilemma is another thing. I don't consider myself powerful and able to solve this question, little ones are my back, because much bigger ones haven't solved this, haven't solved these dilemmas. A lot of people know that. Those smarter ones tried not to open those questions because we have a lot of shortcuts. We've got a lot more to do today. In any case, I don't think this is important. I don't think this is necessary. But if you want with all these dilemmas, if you want to go through that folk slaughter ox for a kilo of meat, then you have that situation. And then normally, those who are unprepared for that kind of dialogue, suddenly jump over and say, no, this can't, we're done, it's just the bell of fascism, don't mention these whose features of neofascism are just not seen. We can't solve this issue that way. We made that clear as to the position of the SNSD and the relationship to
ParlaMint-BA_2010-03-16-0.u33205	Time!
ParlaMint-BA_2010-03-16-0.u33206	(I'm finishing) anti-fascist fluids and everything, and we're ready for it, but we're not ready for political interests to open new divisions, to open new dilemmas. Because in a lot of things, I've expressed as dilemmas, as observations. I don't think I'm right about everything, but I'm troubled by these dilemmas. And it's a little half an hour, what a lot of people haven't solved, that, like here, we sit down, and here 43 we press the tasters, and we solve with fascism, we solve with everyone. What we sent to the people, what new dilemmas and divisions they're not talking about, we're probably not thinking about.
ParlaMint-BA_2010-03-16-0.u33207	Thank you. Just a little bit, please. I've been given the director of the joint service and the security officer, the secretary who directly interviewed them, the information that this building didn't have any power to arrest or take anyone away. It's the internal control and communication of the security inspector and the Ministry of Security that has the office in this building, doesn't necessarily mean that it means anyone breaking into this building. Here we went for further information, and we sent another vice president and secretary of the House to get more information on this. That's what's going on in this building. At the same time, what Mr Kolegijum said about Mr Lagumdžija's stand, can be removed from the stenogram, Mr Lagumdzija has a warning; this is a continuation of the session, in the event of a second warning, it is known what is done in accordance with the Rules of Procedure. The next replica, the esteemed Husein Nanić. Here you go.
ParlaMint-BA_2010-03-16-0.u33208	I thank you, Chairman. Here I will replicate two things here that Mr. Kalabić has made, and it is about the law on lustration or lack of desire to pass that law. I want here clearly as an MP of the SDA to support this thinking that this law comes on the agenda. I hope that the SNSD will do so to get that law on the agenda and I will try, as far as I can, for the SDA to fully support that law. I don't see any reason why you wouldn't be supportive. And, if there is no SNSD intention to propose this, I would also suggest that we 'indemnify the Council of Ministers to do and deliver in the parliamentary procedure a law on lustration that might bring this whole issue together and give its own court'. And what I would like to say is, here, the story of the Communist party, you insult some MPs because there are MPs who have not been to the Communist party. Those who are may be called, may be justified or not justified, but there are also MPs who have never been to the Communist party and did not belong in that system but who have had certain consequences for that system.
ParlaMint-BA_2010-03-16-0.u33209	Thank you. The second replica, Ambassador of Remzija Kadrić. Here you go. 44
ParlaMint-BA_2010-03-16-0.u33210	Just for a little while, one small correction to what Drago Kalabić was talking about. So here's the difference between fascism and Nazism, so the story of Hitler. Hitler was the leader of Nazism in Germany, and the leader of fascism, the fascist movement in Italy... because in Italy there was fascism and he was Musolini. So in that part that little thing is different. And this, when it comes to both theoretically and theoretically, these are some huge differences between the concept of fascism, Nazism and terrorism, although these are things that could be discussed differently on other occasions; this is what Dr. Genjac was talking about, it's an important thing.
ParlaMint-BA_2010-03-16-0.u33211	Thank you. Dear Ambassador Drago Kalabić, replica. Here you go.
ParlaMint-BA_2010-03-16-0.u33212	Here's a short one, I really support what counterpart Nanić said, if we can agree or ask the Council of Ministers to really open the process and prepare the necessary documents. There are enough experiences from some countries and in the environment and in the region that I can ask this question, if I said I'm sorry, but I don't think I said it. I told the people who, on behalf of that system and in the name of that party, violated human rights. So they're not all people, there's a lot of congratulatory members of the Communist Party. I am more angry with those who have betrayed this party and have treated it so incorrectly and those who have handed over power so hynically, and on the other hand, I see how they were acting hynically at that time, so I resent it more than I have spoken to them; so many honest people were in the Communist Party, and it has nothing to do with what I said. One small number in the name of that party does what it did, which is known to everyone, I suppose it sits in both state authorities and political parties and everywhere, but I really don't want to bring it into any connection with the Communist Party's membership, but only with that, and also to say what they did, we need this process to open the issue. And I think we should have opened it before this to see if some people can speak with credibility about these topics or take us away, or because of their needs, they take us to the wrong place not to talk about '60, '70. And in the '80s, it's about some other times, because you're holding her a thief on principle, you know how it goes. I'm sorry, this thing about Remzija is a contribution to a little theory, I don't feel able to talk at that level because it's a little too strong for me, because I see that fascism isn't in Germany, that they don't have the need to fight it and fight it.
ParlaMint-BA_2010-03-16-0.u33213	Thank you. The next is the Honorable Chairman, Dr. Milorad Žiković, of the debate. 45
ParlaMint-BA_2010-03-16-0.u33214	I think there was a little confusion in people who tried to interpret what I said by replacing the thesis that I was talking about the peoples. When I came out for this pay phone, I said by name and last name that Milorad Živković was not a member of the Chetnik movement and that if I had to put it in Criminal Law. But I also asked for two names and a last name when we talked about what my people fear and what they find unacceptable in this BiH to come out and make it clear that you are against mujahedin, selephine and Wahhabi. Niko of you fellow MPs stood up and said that. And I want to say that by doing so, I can draw conclusions that are likely to fill the news signs of the following days, but that's not the way in BiH we need to talk, unilaterally approach the problems, the difficult history of this country. If you're ready with me name and last name to sit down and talk, we're here; but as far as I can see, there's no such thing as preparedness. I'm closing the debate, and we're moving to point 10, Ad. Ten. Proposal for a Law amending and supplementing the Law on Service in the Armed Forces of Bosnia and Herzegovina, Proposer: Sefer Halilović, Law No: 01-02-8-22/10 of 16.2.2010, with the opinion of the Joint Commission for Defence and Security of BiH At the 72nd session of the House, a request for a shortened procedure was adopted. The Constitutional Legislative Commission delivered its opinion on the constitutional basis 24. 2. The relevant Joint Commission for Defence and Security Opinion on the Principles of the Proposal for a Law delivered 9. And she didn't support them. The Directorate for European Integration Opinion delivered 6. 2. We've been given the Council of Ministers' opinion today. We are discussing the Commission's opinion. If Dom accepts, this law is rejected; if it does not accept, it shall return to the Commission for review and delivery of a new opinion. I am opening a debate on the Commission's opinion. Dear Ambassador Remzija Kadrić. Here you go.
ParlaMint-BA_2010-03-16-0.u33216	I expected that before me, Sefer Halilović, as the legislator of the law, would say something, but here...
ParlaMint-BA_2010-03-16-0.u33217	We're talking about the Commission's opinion here, but here's Sefer's call. If you want to speak first, it's no problem. 46
ParlaMint-BA_2010-03-16-0.u33218	Here later, I mean, it would be correct for Sefer to say something about this as legislator, so I will.
ParlaMint-BA_2010-03-16-0.u33219	Thank you. Dear Ambassador Sefer Halilović. Here you go.
ParlaMint-BA_2010-03-16-0.u33220	Well, I'll be brief since I've talked about this law, I think, enough here in Parliament and on the Commission. On the Commission, you know what the situation was, so six members were in favour, two against, and these were more influenced and impressed by what was the position of the Ministry. I say the Ministry and the Council of Ministers have not studied this problem enough. I think there's plenty of room for this problem to be solved in one human and correct way. I think this parliament owes these people 20 years in uniform and whose work experience is between 25 and 30 years of work experience and I don't think we have the right in such a way, so harshly, unilaterally put them on the street without trying to find a solution. My attempt with this law and the short-term adoption was merely an invitation to parliamentarians to come up with a human solution that would solve the problem of these 2,200 people. And I mean, it's not just a matter of 2,200 people, it's a matter of principles and relationships with members of the Armed Forces and of what we should respect and respect. I call on Parliament to reject the Commission's opinion, to return it to consideration and to find a solution together for these people. I argue that... this solution will neither stop BiH from towards NATO nor affect anything on our fast or slower path to NATO. We all know that the road to NATO depends on a lot of factors, not only of these 2,000 people, and that we should all involve ourselves in finding a solution to this problem. Thank you.
ParlaMint-BA_2010-03-16-0.u33221	Thank you. First Deputy Chairman, Mr. Niko Lozančić. Here you go.
ParlaMint-BA_2010-03-16-0.u33222	Thank you, Mr. President. Ladies and gentlemen, MPs, distinguished members of the Council of Ministers, distinguished guests, here we have today a proposal for one symbolic amendment to one of the reform laws 47 that have been passed over the past few years and we have the position of the Council of Ministers and we have the position of our competent commission that opposes the amendments to that law. I am sorry that we do not have a defence minister here today to repeat once again the reasons why the ministry is responsible, and then by the Council of Ministers, so probably by following this and our competent committee – it was said that they were against the amendment of this law, and I will remind you, because I had already updated this through the parliamentary issue at the beginning of this session, that they stated as a reason that the adoption of this law would require additional financial resources and that, by accepting these changes, they would have slowed our way to NATO integration. If they had at least come up with some cleverer explanation and even if we could swallow it here, it would have been nice. I must say that I, as a representative of one of the political parties who supports this composition of the Council of Ministers, am ashamed of this position by the Council of Ministers and by the position of the competent ministry. We have a situation here where this country needs over 2,000, so that I'm not speaking the exact number now, I hope I get that number, and then maybe I'll get a chance to talk more specifically about it, over 2,000 people who are employees, members of the Armed Forces of BiH -- this year it's planned to be sent on the road. So, from the position of someone who has bread today, he sends it to the position that there is no bread tomorrow. And all the stories, but they're really just stories, I'd like an argument for how there's a program of this, a program of how these people can't wait just for someone to let them go, just to let them get out of these Armed Forces, and then they'll only have roses blooming and all the goodness of this world will be made available to them. For a reminder, Article 184 of this law does not change but, for a reminder, it was said, at that time in 2005, that persons serving in entity armies would become persons serving in the Armed Forces of BiH. And that's when this provision of these 2,000 people and something was wronged, this country cheated on them. Because from the permanent service in the entity armies translated them into a temporary contract service in the Armed Forces for two or three years, and then the minister who can sometimes estimate that they can stay longer, and sometimes here as he now won't estimate that they can stay longer. If we hadn't fooled them like that, they could have sought protection from their labour rights before the courts of this country and probably couldn't have sent them out like this, they'd have to come up with some kind of stronger arguments. The story is that if they stay away from Bog in the Armed Forces, the distraction or slowdown of the reform process in the Armed Forces, or the interference with our accelerated accession to NATO, is a rude replacement of thesis (I don't know a better expression, I must say I apologize if I use inappropriate expressions). And the people at the Ministry and the Council of Ministers want to tell us now that the full services of the Ministry have long been qualified for NATO, that they are more perfect than those already in NATO, that our generals, colonels and brigades have finished all NATO schools and they are great, and all the officers and officers, and that is all they are not soldiers. You might think, and that's another indicator of the fact that at the very end of the day, the car is always broken, that the chain is on the thinst link. But I don't think it really makes sense, so it really doesn't make sense. Furthermore, in that law, and this is what a distinguished colleague suggested to change, I thought that at least it would be accepted. So at least that, so here's to being honest, I wasn't even sure if it would solve the fate of these people. So I wasn't sure, but it would give some hope of getting rid of it. It is a random mistake, which says in Article 101 that an active soldier may be in the Armed Forces by the age of 35. And in the following Article 102, whose amendment is proposed by this proposal to amend the law, it is said that after 48 termination of the military service, the same will become a member of the reserve assembly. And that, so I understand, immediately means the moment he's fired from the service, he immediately goes into reserve and has the same rights in terms of social income and giving as well as in the active service, even if from that aspect people wouldn't be damaged. We had professional soldiers, employees up to 35 years old, we had a reserve where these people, who are 15, 16 and 18 years old in the army, would be taken care of socially, and I think we could say at that time -- well, this is how we're taking faster steps towards NATO integration, but at the same time we're taking care of people. So we're not treating them like they're, I don't know, not to say some ugly term. In this article 102, to be a miracle, perhaps a mistake, neither do I, but interestingly, it is said that even in that reserve service cannot be one who is over 35 years old. And you see, up to 35 he's active, and also in this reserve who might after that active but can't because he's 35 years old. It's a illogical thing. I have to say an illogical thing. Whatever it is, as much as anyone's convinced, it might be, this morning we were talking about a law, maybe it's a technical mistake. But if it's a technical mistake and it questions the fate of so many people, then it's really too much. And there's something else, and if it were possible for us to direct them to that reserve service immediately after the service, I don't know where to send them, because we don't have those spare services at all. So even though the law was passed five years ago, it was never established. What hasn't been established, I have no idea. So I don't know. And instead of taking care of all those who have been in office at the Ministry of Defence on high-level officers' duties in the Armed Forces of BiH, and have come here before us with correct solutions that will allow for the acceleration of the Euro-Atlantic integration process of BiH, insurance for further reform of the Armed Forces, but also the resolution of the social status of those who really have no right to play once they have received everything for the past 18 years – they have given what they can give?- I'm sorry. They have an accident so the others are alive or not disabled. It's their accident. Because if they were one of those two, they'd be taken care of the other way, and that's the message. I think that today, because time has run out, so if we refuse this report, we will continue the agony. So we're going to continue the agony, and we're going to go back to, I don't know, the next 15 days to discuss it again, so we're going to get a negative report again, so we're going to do it again, etc. We don't really have a solution right now. That's why I'm going to say this out loud today, so today I'm going to support this report negative; I said I was absolutely against it only to create an opportunity for myself to propose the law for the next session, but a little more extensive, distinguished colleague than what you have suggested, and I'm going to repeat it as long as I sit in this House and as long as some kind of assembly of this Parliament doesn't pass such a law. So this is a question where each of us can reevaluate ourselves, his moral and every other height, if he really wants to, we can look at the light of cheeks to every man and every citizen of this country. So that's why I'm calling on the rest of you today to accept the opinion and bring this bill down, and for the next session, I'm open, whoever wants us to make this proposal together, to do it together. Because in this law, we've taken great care of both the generals and all the good guys, and here's how we took care of them. I think it needs to be corrected in law. Thank you very much. 49
ParlaMint-BA_2010-03-16-0.u33223	Let only one announcement, of course I also welcome, the debate on this agenda point is attended by Mr Cicović Milan, Đaković Stanko, Mustajbegović Semir and zec Sead, so representatives of the fired soldiers, veterans of the Armed Forces. Welcome.
ParlaMint-BA_2010-03-16-0.u33224	Replica, the esteemed representative Lazar Prodanović.
ParlaMint-BA_2010-03-16-0.u33225	Mr. Vice-President, distinguished colleagues and fellow MPs, honored guests, my replica refers to Mr. Sefer Halilović's presentation. In fact, I want to say that this opinion is after this debate, you, Mr. Vice-President, have participated and I think that you have contributed in this sense that it should be quite clear, with all respect for the social component that is present, we should not disinform or drive the Bosnian Herzegovina public astray. If BiH wants a path to NATO, we parliamentarians today cannot pass a bill like this. I think, first of all, I believe that someone from the Ministry of Defence had to be here, whether a deputy or a minister who would explain it, it is clear that one of the key requirements for the MAP is among other things that members, or soldiers in the Armed Forces of BiH, cannot be more than 35 years old. And even in ancient Greece, a soldier couldn't have been more than 35 years old. I mean, someone might like it or not, we can now say that we want three thousand soldiers, we will, okay, but we are going back to defence reform as one of the most significant... reforms implemented in BiH after the establishment of the Dayton Peace Agreement. And I think the key question is what you, deputy chairman of the presidency, have said: BiH must find a way to take care of these soldiers who stop serving in the Armed Forces of BiH. They cannot, according to this proposal, if they were members of the armed forces in BiH, continue the service... until retirement conditions are obtained. This does not exist in any NATO pact member, such status. The key question is whether BiH can provide 10 or 8, or I don't know how many millions for the social care of these categories and, normally, further procedure with all this, with all respect to their contribution and anything. So, in that sense, I think this law is good, if we put it in public like this, but it is impossible if we want to sincerely have a commitment to reforming the Armed Forces on the path of BiH's membership in the NATO Pact. It should be said openly and clearly said, someone from the ministry here should come out and say what objections were made to BiH's previous application to the MAP, among other things. Thank you.
ParlaMint-BA_2010-03-16-0.u33226	Replica, Mr. Lozančić. 50
ParlaMint-BA_2010-03-16-0.u33227	Thank you. More, more, to explain... that there are no dilemmas. I don't think I want to manipulate this question. So, I wouldn't want anyone to see me that way and torture these people with some cheap political points. So I'm just throwing it away. But I've been sitting, and here are some here sitting on the Butmir at the NATO base, EUFOR, the EUPM, I don't know what it's called anymore, either. The Butmir process, so I was there. And I listened to those who came to talk to us and who offered us, among other things, a fast road to NATO and didn't mention any of this soldier at all. They mentioned other things that unfortunately we cannot yet get to, and that has nothing to do with them. So, they're not, let's not, let's not move from them to meet the conditions. I agree that we're going to have to get to that, and I am so that we have in the military service what our colleague is talking about: soldiers up to 35 years old. But we can't wait to send them on the road, and we don't have any solution for them. So, at least that's what you're saying, or it's a reserve we haven't established yet because it's gone, and I don't think it's a problem for over 35 years to be human and so on. So, but let's not, that's what bothers me the most in this Council of Ministers position, all the people in the Council of Ministers, and all of you here know the key reasons why we don't go faster to NATO. But surely, surely, I repeat for the hundredth time, it's not these two thousand soldiers who are here now to say once again... remain in the status of soldiers, because they didn't have to be forced by an officer and officer act so that they could have other conditions, unfortunately, but that's also the condition that we sometimes need to start talking about. Next is Honorable Representative Momčilo Novaković.
ParlaMint-BA_2010-03-16-0.u33228	Thank you, Mr. Chairman. I must say, before this session, I had several phone calls from these people who expressed their desire means to support this bill, or not to support this commission's negative report. I am, since I am not a member of this committee, and I have to be honest and I am not an expert in this area, or at home when it comes to this area, the only thing I could do: I could read the Commission's report and see that... the bill's proposal was not accepted,... the principles of the bill proposal, with the following explanation: 'The Ministry of Defence has been working on resolving the problem of the transition of personnel to the Armed Forces of BiH, which was reported continuously by the BiH Presidency, the Council of Ministers and the Parliamentary Assembly. The Ministry of Defence in due time', underlining in due time, 'has recognised the problem of working staffing that will be fired from the professional military service during 2010 and has taken a number of concrete measures from its competence to resolve it.' Please, now I should, what I read, ask the Secretary of Defense: What does this mean first thing in time, that all steps are taken, so what does that mean? And if all 51 were taken on time, then what's the problem? How come we got a problem if we did everything we didn't have it? Of course, I'm undermining this again in time. You see, the motion of the chairman, or vice-president, that we accept the report, and then break this law, so that he or anyone else would propose at the next session the next law, which again the Joint Commission will not accept, whose principles the Joint Commission will not accept – brings us to the position in which we are already today. So it's just a new time to get into the same position. I don't think that we should say anything about this report at all today, because in any way we say it doesn't go in favour of people whose problem we need to solve. I wouldn't say this if we had a secretary of defense here or someone from the Department of Defense. I'd like them to specifically say what he's done here and I'd appreciate it as an MP whether what he's done is enough or not. The second thing that I don't understand here is that someone mentioned some position of the Council of Ministers. I didn't win, or I don't have any views of the Council of Ministers, and I don't know if the members of this committee have been given a position, and the rest of us are not MPs. So, I don't have any views of the Council of Ministers on this matter or we all got it, but here I am not, so I didn't notice in these materials of mine. So I don't have that position of the Council of Ministers and it would be good if someone in front of the Defence Commission could explain a little Commission report. It would be especially good if there were one of the members of the Commission here who was against this meaning and who belongs to this group of those who are opposed to saying what it is, when it is not already from the Ministry: What has the Ministry done, what did the Commission have in mind that it can make such a finding? I'm afraid without any further information today, I'm not able to plead in a way that I can help people without creating any other problem. And that's why I would suggest that we hold the debate today, but not to end it at this session, but since we have the next regular session in seven days, until then, to ensure the presence means from the Ministry of Defence of the Minister and exclusively the Minister, and no deputies, and then let him have the authority. If he cannot be present and who can speak with full capacity about this matter: to explain to us what has been done and what has not been done and could be done. And secondly, if this is not acceptable, what is acceptable to solve the problem? So what measures are acceptable to solve the problem? I don't think people should be... a social category. So, if we can find a solution, I'm here to find it, and I think today, at least today I'm not able without the Ministry of Defense to, I won't say, help people, but here's to make a statement about the law that will help, what will help be. I, I'm not sure in this discussion either, nor can I discover from what I have here in front of me. Thank you.
ParlaMint-BA_2010-03-16-0.u33229	I would like to thank Reverend Novaković. The next is Remzija Kadrić, a respected representative. 52
ParlaMint-BA_2010-03-16-0.u33230	I thank you, Chairman. So, it's short, I'll just continue this... which was read by Ambassador Novaković. So, the Commission's report says, 'It represents a number of concrete measures in its jurisdiction', it talks about the Ministry of Defence to resolve them, (here stands the point), 'it has taken initiatives towards other competent institutions in the same sense.' So it would really be correct here and it would take the presence of the defence minister to explain these activities that his ministry has undertaken, what it has taken, what measures it has taken, etc. So we can have a full report here in that sense. We have here, here's the Department of Defense's opinion. I really think it's at least incorrect... The opinion of the Ministry of Defence, which should have been at least this part that, they should have said this, this part of what he was talking about, which is spoken of in the Report, they only mention two sentences, says that "this proposed law does not correspond to the concept of the professional composition of the Armed Forces of BiH" and in its position (2) says "because the proposed law favours a particular group" etc. I think that's one stupid opinion that's really not enough, I'm not going to say irresponsible, but I think we should really have one whole view, an opinion here, a report from the Department of Defense, what they've done to solve these problems. And for these reasons, I support this... which is what Novaković was talking about, especially what was spoken of by the esteemed Vice-President Lozančić. Thank you.
ParlaMint-BA_2010-03-16-0.u33231	I thank the esteemed representative, Kadrić. And the replica has a respected representative, Sefer Halilović.
ParlaMint-BA_2010-03-16-0.u33232	I didn't think I needed to say some things here that I said, but I'm gonna do it again today. The Council of Ministers' position, and particularly the Ministry of Defence's position, is at least rude, because they are for this problem, this problem is not since yesterday, this problem lasts more than two years, two years, we have been following these soldiers, these martyrs walking between the Presidency, the Ministry of Defence and Parliament, lobbying, looking for people's salvation, looking for a solution. The defence ministry viewed it as being members of Albania's military, not BiH. In this way the Ministry of Defence and the Council of Ministers acted, just copied that line and gave and brought us here in Parliament... we can't do that. If they wanted to, this would have been solved long ago and we wouldn't have this problem in Parliament today. More than 500 officers have retirement conditions, they could retire 500 of them, and these 500 people would be promoted to higher rank. But apparently, people had no good connections, they could last year, only last year, 700 people received new ones, probably by party, party, family, Jaran or other similarities, civil persons in the army, didn't receive them, received new faces. It could have, there could have been more ways to propose... to this Parliament, not that we're here looking and asking questions. They could find 53 ways to have, those people have the conditions to activate that regulation with a legal force of 20, 40 years, they all have over 20 years of employment. To activate in this case, I'm only talking about this case and this group of members of the Armed Forces. Because these are people who are in uniform for 20 years, and after that, they'll be worth all the old boundaries for them, and I need to find a solution for them. This parliament has a way of dealing with this, and any delay is just a distraction. The age limit the doctor was talking about... in some countries for 45 years... We here by war, we are here watching old soldiers from Spain, from Slovenia 45 years, in Croatia is a 45-year old border, in Serbia is a 45-year old border. So there's a backup, there's an active composition, there's a State Border Service, there's hundreds of other ways, not to go too far, ten ways to solve this issue. And I ask you indeed, give it, if, in such a brutal way, the Ministry of Defense is kicking 2,200 people into the street, if the Council of Ministers treats these people in this way, then we have no right. Here's 2,000 votes for whoever you want, just solve this problem. I put this on the table at the last minute because I saw no one would. And the last thing in this replica, since my line time is already up. I ask you not to act two-facedly: on the Commission for Defence and Security, representatives of Bosniak and Croatian people voted in favour, representatives of the Serb people against. The defence minister is from the Bosniak people's order. So something's wrong here, something's wrong here. We play hide-and-seek here, the defence minister executes one policy, MPs vote differently, the Council of Ministers comes third, etc. And this has nothing to do with Bosnia entering the NATO Pact. We all know here that this 2,200 people do not depend on entering the NATO Pact, many other factors depend on entering the NATO Pact, no one will even mention them. Thank you.
ParlaMint-BA_2010-03-16-0.u33233	Thank you. The next is distinguished representative Salko Sokolović.
ParlaMint-BA_2010-03-16-0.u33234	Thank you, Mr. Chairman. Here's exactly Mr. Halilović said a few things I wanted to say in the introduction. And you took my complete discussion, didn't you? What am I saying? I want to support this Parliament's position to find a solution for these people, and I said that last time we had a agenda point: including this request in the agenda. And here I want to do it again for those who don't read or inform themselves enough, so it's not NATO's 35-year standard, whoever says it's misinformed. So we have laws on armed forces in the neighborhood, you look online, you read and you see what years, 40 and 45, that's one thing. 54 The other thing, I'm not that big politician, so I don't look too much up, so I want to sort out those little people's things. Because what happened here, the Commission's report says that there is a selective approach, certain groups of people are favored, because those who left earlier did not get anything. And then, I don't know in RS, but in the Federation space, generals, regulations, let's retire, commanders of battalions, brigades, chiefs of staff, let's retire. Pensions under favourable conditions, here's what the deputy chairman said earlier about how it went from federal to state status through legal procedure and then this tiny paradise that no one will ever worry about. That tiny paradise, people said, has its own family, has meaning within that family of women, children, parents, mostly those with whom I have spoken the only family feeders. They have credited themselves and they're jury, and the jury problem has begun to be updated and will likely come to these parliamentary benches as well. And now it's just that these people have to leave the street for someone else to come. So what I'm saying is, they have the resources provided, let's solve the status of these people, and then let's slowly get younger categories into this and here, and it is specified that on January 1, 2006, it's just that combat population. Before I go any further, I'd like to ask that here just means finding a solution no matter who suggests it. If the solution today is to accept the Commission's position so that we can consider it further, I accept it. But here, since we are specifically talking about Mr. Halilović's legal solution, I'm only interested in whether one mistake was made here or I didn't understand that Article 1 was intended to amend the basic law in Article 101 and logically that this is one technical mistake, right? So... Article 1 should say that in the Law on Armed Forces in Article 101(2), and then Article 102 binds to Article 102. Well, what do I mean? So the Commission that considered this should have noticed this technical error and put it here in its opinion. What do I mean? That maybe people didn't even read, and they were considering some things. As far as I'm concerned, and to break out these more dilemmas about it is NATO standard or not NATO standard, what I know, and I've tried to find out: NATO standard means equipment and training, and what this army that needs to come out of it, in fact, to stop its working-law status, except for that equipment and training, has what some other armies don't have, and they've survived the war, they've survived shooting at each other, and so today they're together, thank Bog. They are able to behave in conditions of armed conflict far better quality than those that are now coming, which means that those in one period of time, here until their status is resolved, may be able to engage through these peace missions, etc. Just here to look at something. Here, and if we want to analyse the complete proposal of Mr. Halilović, so here we are not interested in this moment, Article 1, we want Article 2. Really, what Mr. Lozančić just said, it's a safe conflict, because it's incomprehensible to me, it's incomprehensible to me that soldiers... from (1) to (4) in Article 101. '15 years longer than 35 years', and so says the reserve composition: 'it is up to 35 years long', and in the position (1) Article 102. 'The reserve service begins after the professional military service has ceased.' So, basically these professional soldiers can't get to this spare band, because it's been restricted for years. And the inevitable change of this member, they wanted to do it to me today or tomorrow, to create space for this law to have its own pass, to move from the professional composition of the army to the reserve... composition. I think at this point, it's one significant moment that we can help these people. 55 I appeal here to all MPs not to forget who the citizens voted for, which is why we are sitting here today, among other things, solving these problems. Because here I am trying not to repeat the things that have been said so far, but here I want to point them out one more time. He says, "Members of the Commission," as far as this committee's opinion is concerned, "have voted against accepting the principles of the bill. The opinion is that the Ministry of Defence is working for a longer period of time to address the problem of personal transition, which has been continuously reported by the Presidency, the Council of Ministers and the Parliamentary Assembly." For my term here, there was once this report vis-à-vis that. But we haven't seen a concrete solution, I don't like fog in my life, I'm a man who's pragmatic. So if these people are leaving, and we're offering a solution, then we need to see exactly what the solution is. If that's what's in the fog, if it doesn't have... the closeness by which we can recognize that it's a solution for these people and that they're not going to go out on the street, then I can't and I don't want to... support that kind of thinking. I think that it should be our priority here today to reject this proposal, to reject the Commission's opinion, to keep this law alive and in this period ahead of us to seek certain solutions, or to adopt this law in the coming period through parliamentary procedure, or to see something that is a solution for these people and coming from the Ministry of Defence, comes from the Council of Ministers, and with what, finally, we can be satisfied and powerful, is that, if it is in parliamentary procedure, raise your hand and say that we have done something morally at this moment. For me, this is a moral question, and I repeat again, I am talking about those people who have brought the burden of war with us, I am talking about those people who should have represented them and who should have forgotten about them taking care of themselves, and they have left them simply here to show our moral character here in the parliamentary procedure. Thank you, Mr. Chairman.
ParlaMint-BA_2010-03-16-0.u33235	Thank you. Before I give my word to the next MP, let me just say very simply, since it seems to me that a number of MPs have dilemmas, means procedures, etc. I don't think it's going to be extra. We can only do two things today, we can accept the opinion of the Committee and thus this law falls or we can bring it back, so we can't accept the opinion of the Committee and go back to the Committee again in seven days' time or for 15 laws in the first reading in the same form. So I just want to explain what variants are, that we all know and when we propose solutions, and when we're here, we're about solutions that we're committed to. The next is the esteemed representative of Zlatko Lagumdžija.
ParlaMint-BA_2010-03-16-0.u33236	I thank you, Mr. Chairman. Dear colleagues and colleagues, today we have come to a situation that practically whatever we conclude is hardly going to be trusted by the people involved, rightly. Let us release for a moment the fact, gentlemen of the College, that you have allowed us to discuss this without the presence of 56 Council of Ministers, without the presence of the President of the Council of Ministers and his deputies and the Minister of Defence. It's simply unacceptable but, as they say, I'm not in a position to invite any of them here to come and do it. And here the three of you are, by any chance, in agreement with that, if you can't, you have at least a chance for the people who can invite them here to provide them here, but what's here. Unfortunately, we have now come down to two options, as you said, one is to accept the Commission's opinion and, as counterpart Lozančić said, that we believe that he will, as he said, insist on resolving the matter by the end of this term. I fear insisting at the end of the mandate will not solve the problem of these people, because by the end of the term, they will all practically remain on the street. And they don't have any of it that anyone here takes the obligation to handle it, they don't ask for someone to solve it, actually, they're here looking to get rid of it because for years it's been solved and it's not solved. Another possibility is, as you said, that this report should be rejected and that it should return to the Commission and that this law should be tried somehow, modified or similar, with the same muscle goals here. To be clear, since what you said, these two positions, they come from two important parties from the Council of Ministers, one of the two parties has a defence minister, and the other has a finance minister. And if what you're saying, what you're doing here in the Commission, if it were a general place for whoever you're politically responding to, you wouldn't be in this situation. There was an atmosphere here that seemed to be: let the Council of Ministers be wrong, and this parliament and especially the people of the ruling majority have nothing to do with it. You're what the movies say you've already seen. The responsibility of the Council of Ministers for this cannot be avoided here; if you, as parliamentary majority, disagree with the Council of Ministers, then change the Council of Ministers and replace the Ministers and see them change their minds. But no, you want as parliamentary majority parliamentarians that you fought for rights, and who is to blame is Špirić and Selmo and who is the finance minister. And, I mean, these are the ways things have worked out so far. If we want to test the seriousness, I suggest, firstly, I think it's better if we just in case refuse this report by this committee and keep this alive. To be very clear, we, ourselves, have here that come from the circle from which I am and which, and I have the circumstances I have a party attitude so I am obliged to present it, we support this law by Sefer Halilović. So, we support him without a single wig robbed and we're ready to take responsibility. Come on, you pass the law, and here we take responsibility. When it's all over with NATO, just so it's missing, we'll offer you a solution. So, please, we do everything for NATO, so there's just a problem left with these 2,300 people, here we go, here we go. And don't worry about NATO, put your finger on us that we're responsible for not joining NATO if it comes to that, that's clear, very simple. So, don't hide behind NATO, or if you're convinced that it's the only problem, when it gets there, we'll offer a legal solution that will solve it and we'll talk to the NATO people about it. No problem at all. And I am convinced that there is at least one member of the presidency who will discuss this with us, and with one of the Bureau members, we have discussed this, therefore, that he is ready to be a participant in the negotiations with NATO. It's all over. It's just a problem in these 2,300 people. I suggest, Mr. Chairman, therefore, and be careful what you promised can be realized through the refusal of the report. And you offer it better, which will also solve the problem and no problem, we forget, Sefer withdraws this law, we withdraw our support and passes what is also a solution. Look, we don't want to get rid of it, we want to get rid of it. So 57 resolutions don't interest us. Now, to speed it up, here you are, gentlemen, here you are: you are in charge of the Council of Ministers, so we reject this report, which means the law is alive, Sefere, the Council of Ministers is in charge of coming out in seven days with amendments to this law that will for a period, we give them the order to do what to do, which will suspend the application of Article 102 for a period of three years, which refers to an age limit of 35 years for members of the Army of the Republic of BiH, the HVO and the Army of the Republic of RS, and to prepare a programme of resolving this problem, namely these persons through budget rebalancing, and immediately: the requalification programmes and programmes of admission to other state institutions that finance the budget. There are people here who would rather be in the State Border Service, who would be in the SIPA, who would provide someone there, because when a companion follows you, one of these people being followed by a companion can be 36 years old. There are trained people here, I'm sure they can do it better than the people who were brought from the street or with some family. But watch out, if you want to solve, here's three years, that's the year of this power, and from this world there'll be a majority in two years, if Bog doesn't, the Kinez won't come for us. They have an obligation here by consensus to get rid of this in three years. In three years, some people will retire, any one of them who wants to go to school and go to school, overqualified, can be done, issued a ban on being admitted to any state institutions that are funded for the start of the BiH budget, we give a recommendation for entity and cantonal institutions not to receive anyone unless they've been delivered from the Ministry of Defence that he's on this list, that he has this qualification, please take him in. That's the answer to the problem. So, first we solved the working-legal status of these people and then when it comes, when we do, when the NATO general or ambassador comes on behalf of NATO, he says -- it's all right, you come in tomorrow, but there's a problem with these people -- and then we'll talk about it. I'm sure we'll deal with it with requalification, because to be clear, Sefer was Minister of the Federation Government in 2001 when 10 thousand Federation troops, the Federation of BiH military, 10 000 for the conditions... and the negotiations were headed by Beriz also as a member of the presidency, when it was a condition for obtaining a proper restructuring credit for the Partnership for Peace, for entering the Partnership for Peace and for uniting the two armies at the time, that's when 10 thousand soldiers got severances from 10,000 marks. And that was a burden on the federal budget of 100 million marks. For those 100 million marks, those people could have bought complete certificates on the street that were launched for 300 thousand people who had left earlier. So it can be when there's political will and there's a willingness for people to solve the problem, not to pretend to solve it. I'm not saying this is the best solution I've ever suggested. So, as far as we're concerned, if you're willing to support Sefer's law, you have our votes. But if you intend to solve it, we will not support you to resolve it, except to show good will, and we offer you this way to keep this law alive, in seven days let the Council of Ministers come to us here and here take the obligation. So tell me we're replacing three men from the Council of Ministers for this, just the prime minister, just the finance minister, and only the Secretary of Defense, they'll handle it in five minutes. So, all we can help you solve this, we're at your disposal, but we're not ready to be accomplices to maybe even... unconsciously cheating on these people that we're taking care of them and that we're dealing with them, and that actually the thing is done as it is unfortunately already solved for some 300 people who have already gone and who have practically no more illusions with who they're dealing with. Surely this can be solved in many other ways, but here for a start I think that this conclusion today and the refusal of this report and the keeping of Sefer's law alive; if you are not ready, normally, it is most acceptable for us to conclude: 58 we support Sefer's law and what we care about the Council of Ministers; and I task them to come out with a rebalancing; if not, that the Defence Commission is formed here and that a commission will form here to rebalance the budget if it is necessary to do so. It's no problem only if he has political will. And I repeat once again, you can't have five political parties holding the Council of Ministers holding us hostage and making us stand by our eyes, like you would have solved but you have some ministers with whom you have nothing. Because the ministers wouldn't have done it if your parties hadn't said so. Everything under a false dilemma, that's who it is, will fail NATO. And without this, NATO is standing right here in Miljacki to get us the Sixth Fleet, if we can work this out. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-BA_2010-03-16-0.u33237	Replica, Lozančić.
ParlaMint-BA_2010-03-16-0.u33238	The pleasure of this rare moment of your presence in this hall is to take advantage of and hear all the pearls and all the skills that you are trying really in one inappropriate way to replace the thesis and speak and put into my mouth what I have never said, nor thought, nor thought, nor word, nor anything else. Really, it's... it's too much, I have to say. We at every session, first I will answer as far as the College members are concerned, we call first and foremost all the MPs, but here some come, some don't come. Some come when they arrive, some don't come at all, and we don't have sanctions, we can't force, we invite members of the Council of Ministers to every session, and you're unfortunately right. So, right away, I want to admit, unlike you, that when you're right, unlike you, you're not able to accept anything, no matter how positive, because as soon as it's from someone else, it's wrong. So you're right there. And if we were the ruling majority, I agree with you absolutely, we would have replaced the Council of Ministers for this. Unfortunately, we haven't, and that's where I agree with you. So that's where I agree with you. But responsible here, I will say that one of the defence ministry's officials, I mean specifically the deputy defence minister, is not implementing the HDZ BiH policy on this issue, I am responsiblely saying here. And don't think I'd go out like this and talk here, because I know she's a HDZ candidate, so I know that and you don't tell me. I responsibly argue that it does not implement BiH's HDZ policy when it comes to this. If it makes sense to take her out of context as a deputy, so we can replace her as a message, here's what we can do. So, I agree with you and I, the question is whether there is a principled majority for the shift. And I say it again, and that's what I'm prepared for, so we understand each other, so I'm ready for that, because this is really why someone should answer. But when I said I was ready, just so we're not stalling, I support this solution, so I'm just afraid of time, these people have run out of time. I said, "I'm sorry we didn't accept the proposal to make this 127," so I'm sorry, in that sense I'm talking, not watering this up. If we can get a solution through 126, by returning to the Commission again, we are losing another 15 days. That's all I said, and I'm ready for whoever wants to go with me, whoever wants to go with him, so we propose a law after 127, and 59 try to get through here. I'm not sure in this correspondence, so there you are again right, with the Council of Ministers, we will come to a solution. Because we're going to, and you watch out, but what you've been replacing thesis, who's going to be here now, Niko Lozančić is going to come out here and lie to these people, and he's going through the HDZ to drive them away. Well, that's not true, Mr. Lagumdžija. So that's what I'm saying to you, to the entire public here, it's not true and don't impute such things.
ParlaMint-BA_2010-03-16-0.u33239	Replica, Lagumdžija.
ParlaMint-BA_2010-03-16-0.u33240	Mr. Lozančić, believe me, if it wasn't for the last sentence, I wouldn't know what we disagreed on. And I'm glad you supported this all I said. I'm really well-meaning you once again, so assuming, I'm just inviting you to withdraw your proposal to accept the report and to go with something new. I further urge you to reject a report that will practically keep Sefer's law alive, and that everything else be done, to find this, including an active conclusion on the obligations to the Council of Ministers, so I repeat, an active conclusion: the obligation of the Council of Ministers to put this before us in seven days, here in the form I have proposed. And I don't see anyone here, I'm talking to people around me right now, I don't see anyone who would be, so to speak, against one such conclusion that the Council of Ministers is bound to pass an active law in seven days, an amendment to this law that will solve the problem. And if there is political will, that law can be resolved by an emergency procedure without any problems. So my suggestion is this, if you are, right to tell you I didn't notice anything... that I used the word that you're lying or something like this. But otherwise I have a problem I guess, I don't know, you've turned into readers of my thoughts, so here's if it seemed to you that I thought you were lying, and even if I said that, well, I'll apologize to you, just support me in this, so just back me up in this. It's okay, slap me, spit underneath, do whatever you want, just back me up.
ParlaMint-BA_2010-03-16-0.u33241	I try to behave properly, so I don't mean to use some methods that some others use. Replica, the esteemed representative of Beriz Belkić.
ParlaMint-BA_2010-03-16-0.u33242	Mr. Lagumdžija, it's not a replica. It's to try to clarify. So, we don't accept this report, we return it to the Commission, in the meantime we reach a conclusion, we ask the Council of Ministers for a solution, a law. We can't put him in the process until we finish the procedure with this previous one. That's the problem, so we can't pass a new law until we end 60 procedures with this previous one. And the idea of Mr. Lozančić was to eliminate this law from the procedure, so the idea was to now vote for the Commission's report to eliminate this law, and then open up a space for the Council of Ministers to give us a new or that MPs, what Lozančić is saying, propose a new one. I'm just trying to explain, we're not free of procedure if this one's still alive, because then this committee is meeting, so guidelines, so we're losing time. I think so.
ParlaMint-BA_2010-03-16-0.u33243	Business intervention, distinguished representative of Zlatko Lagumdžija.
ParlaMint-BA_2010-03-16-0.u33244	Because if I don't lose the chance that if I have to, so Mr. Belkić, here's Mr. Halilović and I were just talking about it. Please make this conclusion with live law, conditionally speaking, with living law; this conclusion you know perfectly that this commission will certainly not meet in the next seven days that whoever is... solves something, let alone solve it. So, within seven days, let the Council of Ministers come out in accordance with this conclusion, the active relationship that meets this problem, Sefer Halilović, or any problem, can be withdrawn, make better, immediately withdraws. But don't get me wrong, we have to hold the Joker somehow, I don't want to say, I know who we're dealing with. So we just want to make sure we don't get shot by this law while it's small, with an explanation that we're getting something, because you know what the Council of Ministers is like, you know it better than I do, right? They may not listen to us, even if you say so. Then we'll make other kinds of political pressures, so that's a suggestion. So I'm very well-intentioned trying to resolve the business so that we don't enter the inappropriate dictionary. _________(?) [[no microphone turned on]] He pulls it if he makes the Council of Ministers, if he better do something better to solve it. It's no problem at all, just make it better. It doesn't interest anyone to be his law, to be called, Bog forbid. There.
ParlaMint-BA_2010-03-16-0.u33246	Thank you for these clarifications, I hope we're clear. Next is Honorable Representative Slavko Jovičić. 61
ParlaMint-BA_2010-03-16-0.u33247	Dear Chairman, what I would like to begin by pointing out immediately is that we are not racing as party representatives, neither the people, nor the entities who are going to help these people, and who are going to listen in public tonight to how there is one party or one nation or representatives who did not want to help them, and already in public it has appeared. And even these friends upstairs that I spoke to at their request and who called me this thought, which is not true, and I convinced them, they're all in Parliament for this law, the SNSD is not. And no one has thought about it at all, and I'm thinking about seeing right there a Bošnjak, a Srbin, a Hrvat, and that's how they lined up because they're together and no one has singled out let's go and help the Srbin, and we're not going to help the Bošnjak, the Hrvat, at least when it comes to me, and I don't think nobody thinks so of their colleagues, but let's look for a solution to help these people, I repeat, not racing. And immediately in this House creating such an atmosphere, there are no members of the Council of Ministers of these most responsible, arrests, and you are the parliamentary majority, and according to the old one, the coalition, which you do not affect them who do not have them, which you do not bring or bring in, what and what terms are used. So it's generally known that today is a very profitable methodology of confusion, of service, and then a bit of milder terms of acquisition, of affection, of supporting this or that, it's an election year. Well, there's two thousand soldiers there, so times two thousand, I don't know, or four family members, or I don't know, that I don't go all the way to those polls, but that's how it starts, and today it's heard. When Mr. Halilović proposed this law, so I didn't see any support in the paper for any individual to come forward and say - I support this law. Not one! Not even an attack on a minister who is not here, and I would love to, without him, we can't, we can't hear the arguments on the old folk's what we lose on the bridge and what we get on the keg. Well, here's the military commissioner to say what he's going to do with these people, and he's writing there, although it's not his jurisdiction, but together to help everyone because we need him. So, so that I don't owe much, let's say, I repeat, that we are not racing but that we are all together as MPs, not making any difference that someone is sitting in the first, second, third, fourth row, which belongs to this and that party, which comes from this or that people, the entities, let's all go together, I guess there's so much brains and opportunities to find with one goal: we will and we want to help these people. Whose people are these up there? They're our people. And of course, something else that is very important, that I don't address you up there, respected soldiers, but I am talking to my colleagues in Parliament, especially you, because the media will be looking for you. We don't do this whatever decision we make because of your pressures, the last time you were down there, so I talked to you, I said, don't hate yourself. And today you're here, so you don't think that whatever we decide that we did what you came down here to do, well, that's what we're never gonna do. Because what would happen tonight will you and tomorrow someone go public, just get in front of Parliament let's 150 of you down there under pressure they'll accept everything, well, we'll never. That's what you and five thousand and fifty thousand know to come to you. But we're going to look at you humanly to meet, to do everything humanly possible to help you, not to be a social category, and that these solutions offered by some correspondence are not solutions, where you, what will happen to you, what will happen to your children, what will happen to us, here. I don't care about the election anymore, I don't think about it, I don't think about it, I do, and then I tell you that I'm not talking to you, I'm talking to my colleagues. So let's just say that theirs, I won't call it an accident, we have a lot more unfortunate people today who don't have any bread at all, and they're already in their pocket holding fire solutions, they've all got it before, and now we've thought of it as today that we have to deal with it and like 62 we're thinking if we're going to be late for Mr. Lozančić's proposal, which I think is quite reasonable. And they already have quits in their pocket. So, again, we have to call a contest to have someone take them back if we pass that law that they can't be fired. Do we have a right? That's why I plead that no one builds political points on these people's misfortunes, so there's just, I don't like to mention names, but one club stopped or one politician to protect it all, to attack these people; I don't need to attack and I'm going to attack, here's what the minister doesn't have today that I'm going to ask him what's going to be done and how long it's going to take to apply that, just one important fact, these people help. Whatever the story is today, good, bad, they're happy, they're unhappy, if they're solutions about firing in their pockets, there's no story to help them, the best. So, I'm gonna finish this, let's find some opportunity to help these people and plead that nobody here is protecting these people and building their political careers, points. Well, as it has already been, and I've pointed out, all of them are for solving and helping people with these, only SNSD is not, the great harm has been done. First, it's not true; second, insinuations; third, I don't want to be interested in the parties from the opposition because it's their job. But what's very important is, let's find a way, is whether it's the withdrawal of this law from the procedure, whether it's accepting the Commission's opinion, so that it stays alive, is it something else Mr. Lozančić suggested and, thirdly, whether there is a fourth option that no one is thinking about helping these people yet. How can we help? In line with the possibilities and the budgets and the money and the formations and all the standards, but all to get it together in one place. We've heard countless variations today: we can't go to NATO because they've been over 35 years. We can't do this which, and receive 2,000 new soldiers, fired these, who will know more, and who brought whom, when we have here in Parliament, what I have further to go to, in the Council of Ministers: Deputy Minister... his brother's ambassador, nephew now left for the third embassy, so was the army. A relative brought a cousin, an amijac, an uncle, I don't know who, but it's not our debate today, and we're not going to solve anything, we're looking for a solution for these two thousand people not to be on the road. Well, I don't see him and I don't know. So I say: I refuse all insinuations that SNSD is the only one against not helping these people, that we are a remethyling factor, and all the other parties have accepted, which I hear today for the first time, and when this law was in the procedure, and even the newspaper text was not, and not one individual to say -- we want to help these people. But it was on the media: only SNSD drove these soldiers out into the street. It's not true and it won't be true, let's all find a solution in line with the possibilities to help them. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-BA_2010-03-16-0.u33248	It was over again in the fifth minute, but it was the ninth.
ParlaMint-BA_2010-03-16-0.u33249	No Mircophone 63 is enabled
ParlaMint-BA_2010-03-16-0.u33250	It's just that no one's making you say you're finishing, you've got 10 minutes and you can talk for 10 minutes. I have to inform you that at 1400 hours, the Justice Minister scheduled a meeting of a group to deal with constitutional issues and that, given that... these people have to be at the meeting, and that lunch breaks are due, I'm taking a break by 15:30. That's why it's an hour and a half break. [[PAUZA]] Comrades and fellow MPs, please try to get back to the agenda. Right now, we're on the 10th item of the agenda: the Service Act in the Armed Forces. Member of Parliament Slavko Matić is registered for the discussion. Here you go.
ParlaMint-BA_2010-03-16-0.u33252	Thank you, Mr. President. I will begin my debate and probably partially repeat a part of what I said when we opened this session last Wednesday to comment on the answer to my parliamentary question that I received from the Ministry of Defence. In that answer, I see what the Ministry of Defence has done, and here is the answer to the colleagues of Novaković and Kadrić. From that answer, I saw what the Department of Defense had done, and all together we could hear it from the Secretary of Defense when he was here answering parliamentary questions at our joint session of both homes. I said it in a comment then, and I'm gonna repeat that I'm not happy with that answer. I got the impression that, first of all, very little on the ground of soldiers involved in this discharge and measures and the programme that the Ministry of Defence is thinking about or already implements that it is rarely anyone familiar with this, and the bigger problem is that I personally doubt the effectiveness of this programme, or the solution to the problem for these soldiers through this programme. Furthermore, the defence ministry's guilt and the Council of Ministers were often mentioned here today in the debate. Of course there is, but I also believe that this Parliamentary Assembly cannot avoid its part of responsibility and guilt for this emerging situation either. We are today in the opportunity to deal with the consequences of something that was legally caused by a legal provision in the Law of Service in the Armed Forces five years ago: in 2005, this law was passed which then regulated that a soldier in the Armed Forces could be up to 35 years old, or up to 15 years under the Armed Forces. No Niko has questioned it at the time, no one has challenged it, although these days we often hear that it is not a very strict and fixed standard in NATO member states. I, for one, heard yesterday in a conversation with representatives of this category of soldiers who should be fired that according to their knowledge it was in Slovenia, as a member of the NATO alliance, for soldiers at 45 years of age. 64 An even bigger problem in this legal provision is not the age limit itself, it could have been 45 years, and in itself, that is not the answer to the problem. The problem is that the law is missing what happens to that soldier when he turns 35 and gets fired from the Armed Forces. The law does not mention any possibility, neither the possibility of early retirement, nor the possibility of any guarantee that he will be employed anywhere, nor the possibility of continuing in the reserve composition of what his colleague Lozančić was talking about, and that he has working and legal status and certain rights, and I think that this is the biggest problem and the greatest lack of this law that should be amended. The Parliamentary Assembly is also responsible for, on the other hand, what obviously five years ago we knew was expected, which could have been known by these soldiers to be waiting for them at 35 years, and until now we haven't responded, and in the meantime the whole process of renewing, that is, recruiting those who should have come instead, has already been brought to an end, so at this point we have even two problems of which, of course, is much greater than this problem of soldiers who should be fired. What's not good, which is that in this way we too, unless we do anything, would do some kind of discrimination in approach to the former or current members of the Armed Forces. It is well known to me that in the Federation space 10 years ago, five years ago, maybe 12, 13 years ago, in one process of regulations or some other decisions, thousands of former members of the Federation Army and the HVO, about as old as these soldiers are today. Yes, at that time they had five, six and possibly ten years of retirement. We today by firing these armed forces over 2,000 people who certainly have, taking into account the retirement period from a double-term period of retirement, an unfettered period of the '95 peacetime period. in here, each of them has over 20 years of retirement, and there's no legal possibility of any of them being retired. In a certain way, it is still discrimination in approach to such people. What solution can be achieved? I disagree with those who think that here are very simple and easy solutions. If they were, we wouldn't be doing this the way we are. Today, it is very difficult to do with some short and very clear changes in only one law, especially in the Armed Forces Service Act, so that these people are retired, knowing that pension funds and entities, that the laws that resolve the achievement of pension insurance, i.e. the exercise of the right to pension, are brought at entity level and that at BiH level we do not have such a law, but should try to take advantage of every possible chance we can open. Now we need to see until the vote whether we will make room for ourselves more if we have a majority to pass such a law, that is to say we reject a negative opinion or we will speed up the process by refusing this law and try to go to the next session with a law of haste that could possibly be acceptable to the majority in this and the House of Peoples. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-BA_2010-03-16-0.u33253	The next is the Honorable Chairman, Dr. Milorad Živković. 65
ParlaMint-BA_2010-03-16-0.u33254	My fellow Members and fellow Members, I would like to say that in all contacts with international organisations when we want to say what is done well in BiH, we often mention defence reform. And there, as far as I can tell, was no discussion between entities, people, opposition and positions, and that we did all this together and with the vast majority. And it's not good to change and supplement this law now that they want to change one another and they're against it. This is about defence reform and the need for this reform to be seen from this angle right now, that it couldn't be thought about when we passed the law. And you remember that the law was passed with the co-operation of the international community, the OHR and the current Deputy High Representative of the OHR, Rafi Gregorijan. It went so far that the amendment that was adopted here was not allowed, four or five times that I suggested, that the reserve composition was written that up to half the number of soldiers in the regular composition and that there was no change in the smallest possible decimal. That's when no one mentioned this question. Then no one asked this parliament to think about people who, in a few years' time, are going to lose their jobs. I now invite you to talk about it. Why wasn't that talked about and why weren't there those who told us at the time that it was the best possible project? Under the Constitution and according to the part of this law we passed, the Presidency is responsible for the area. According to what the international community has helped and participated with us, it must feel responsible to say here clearly and loudly whether this is contrary to defence reform, whether this is in line with NATO standards and whether BiH can get this right now. We have neither their answer for it, and the OHR daily comes letters and warns this Parliamentary Assembly about everything and everything, about what we have participated in here together, about which we have reached a great compromise and a great degree of consensus, they are not there. And they expect us to solve all our problems, and they're making them with us. I also expect the Secretary of Defense to come out here loud and clear behind this pay phone and say what and how it can be solved at this moment. And that's why we, from here on out, let's say the SNSD Club, will not participate in the entity vote to bring these laws down, but we want a clear and loud answer whether you and us who voted for a defence reform are ready to change that defence reform in this way, whether the international community agrees with this change being made in this way, whether the Ministry of Defence and the Presidency that is responsible agrees with this, then we will say a clear position. Thank you. Replica, Sefer Halilović. Here you go.
ParlaMint-BA_2010-03-16-0.u33255	Obviously, since I don't think there are any more debates, I'd just like to say a few more things. I can see it now, but it doesn't matter, I won't answer any more since this is the last one and I'm gonna use the line right now. When I proposed this law, I said that this law has a moral dimension and a human dimension. So, the moral dimension is our obligation to people who are 19 or 20 years in uniform and the human dimension is that if this Parliament did not do so by the Ministry of 66 defence and the Council of Ministers to find the best solution for these people, for these important people in BiH. They were worth all of us here in '91, '92, '93, '94, '95. and '96. We don't have the right to dump them on the street right now and say, "Here you are, and do what you know." I think there are solutions here. From these discussions today, it was concluded that solutions exist. I would like to appeal to MPs to reject the Commission's opinion, to maintain this law in life, to give time to the Council of Ministers until the next session and to all of us here to eventually propose better solutions. If better solutions arise, I will withdraw my proposal, we will adopt it by emergency procedure and thus end the agony in which these people find themselves. It would be my proposal and my request that MPs in this way, at least morally repay these people and keep this law alive. And if we adopt it in the first reading, in the amendment phase, we have enough space for this law, in the opinion of most of us here in Parliament, to fix it, but with the intention of finding the best solution. Thank you.
ParlaMint-BA_2010-03-16-0.u33256	Thank you. Dear Ambassador Zlatko Lagumdžija. Here you go.
ParlaMint-BA_2010-03-16-0.u33257	Well, I didn't mean to answer, but I have to do this because Mr. Živković said that some things wouldn't stay in the air, seemingly vague, and they're very clear to us all, but not to be misread afterwards. So I have already expressed my position and he does not change, I join what Mr Halilović said, a colleague of Halilović, so it is best to reject the Commission's opinion and practically try to solve this rather than try to solve it. However, since it is in a certain way here, I apologize if I have misunderstood, but in some way this law that my colleague Halilović has offered and we have agreed with, I want to be very clear: it does not mean any way to bring down defence reform and what we have adopted here, to clarify it. I do not think of defending myself, I fully agree with my colleague Živković that those in charge of implementing this law and defence reform should have thought in time about what we will and what we will be witnessing and what we are witnessing today. ... This law has been passed since today, budget users only in BiH institutions, and we have turned our attention every time to the budget, and therefore I do not believe any conclusions that will not be implemented immediately, because every time we go to the budget, every year we turn our attention to it because we knew that the Ministry of Defence would be extra people. This has been seen in our budget every time and in other services financed only by the BiH budget, I am talking first and foremost about the State Border Service, as an example, and we have always proposed, we have always been told that this is a good conclusion and will be taken into account. The fact is that by any chance since the adoption of the law in this House to this day, what has been promised to people in the last three months that it has been done systematically in the last three years, half of these people would have been resolved in different ways. And so please, once again, I want to underline, what we're proposing right now is not destroying the defense system. 67 And I only have one more sentence I want to say, which I find very important as a principle. What has especially defined us as a political party as saying, in addition to all the things I have already said, in a country where every day fears... people sitting here in Parliament share the country and psychologically and parapsychologically and politically – we have something that looks amazing. This is the first time a delicate thing like the BiH Armed Forces has ever occurred to anyone to go and share these people by what armies they came from. And that's a big deal. No one here had the courage to run it, which is a big deal and good for us if we didn't do it. And we have an additional obligation here that people who were practically and literally in three armies in the war, and that they were here together and that they were asking us to help them, and the fact that they were together, they were together, which obliges us to be together in solving their problem.
ParlaMint-BA_2010-03-16-0.u33258	Time! _________(?) And that's not exactly a replica, but there it is.
ParlaMint-BA_2010-03-16-0.u33259	Since the man's in a hurry, if he wasn't clear by now what I told him, then I'd better hang up. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-BA_2010-03-16-0.u33260	Thank you. First vice president, replica. Here you go. Don't rush me, there's a line in this congregation, a replica takes three minutes.
ParlaMint-BA_2010-03-16-0.u33261	Thank you. Here are the ladies and gentlemen of the MPs, the honourable members of the Council of Ministers, I will try through the replica to briefly comment on the fact that there are no dilemmas left over on these issues and come forward all of us and suggest one conclusion. So, I'm glad we're all committed to, respecting the fact that so far no one's done anything to get rid of it, let's try and work this out even though we all realize it's too late. But here, if we can solve it, it won't be too late then. So, I'm glad that there is one such joint thinking and for the sake of opening any dilemmas, so we will support the option of the current proposal staying in parliamentary procedure, which means against the Commission's report. I will propose a conclusion that is partly modified in relation to Mr. 68 Lagumdžija's proposal and I remain in that I will take advantage of my ability, my right of business to propose a single solution myself, all in my desire and intend to through at least one of these solutions, meaning at least one of these solutions, what has been my sincere intention and was and now remains an honest intention, we try to resolve the status of these people in a human way. I will propose a conclusion, given that it may be just a little different from some of the previous ones: 'The House of Representatives of the BiH Parliamentary Assembly is asking the Council of Ministers and the Presidency of BiH to amend and supplement the Law on Service in the Armed Forces of BiH and a proposal for other measures that will permanently resolve the status of the current Armed Forces soldiers, who, due to age, will not be able to remain in the membership of the Armed Forces of BiH.' So I'm just saying this a brief clarification, and with some kind of censorship, years, etc., because a number of them can happen not to be covered by it, and it's going to be necessary for those, and I'm going to definitely propose a program that is correct, conductive, that we can justify that we don't want to discriminate on anyone in this process.
ParlaMint-BA_2010-03-16-0.u33262	Replica, Mr. Živković.
ParlaMint-BA_2010-03-16-0.u33263	Of course, to be clear here, I have cited only an example of how the little amendment up to 50% of the regular composition to be a reserve has caused a heated debate here and it has been said that it is the collapse of defence reform. That's when the concubines who were here were in charge of discussing it with us were saying the same thing was not to be done. I have only called on those same concubines, and here I am specifically talking about the OHR Office and its deputy Rafi Gregorijan, who was involved in a defence reform to say whether this proposal is a collapse of defence reform, is it acceptable by the one who directly participated with us in this reform. I ask the defence minister to make it clear and ask members of the Bureau to make a clear statement. I hope that when we get this back to the Commission, these people will tell them if it's a defense crash, and it's up to us to determine ourselves according to our conscience. That's what I was talking about. I ask them because they participated with us in this: do they consider this acceptable by NATO standards, by the continuity of defence reform? That's mine I asked for from this pay phone. Dear Ambassador Momčilo Novaković, replica. Here you go.
ParlaMint-BA_2010-03-16-0.u33264	So you see, since we're headed in one direction, here I wouldn't want to question this direction in any way, and also in contact with any of these people who are also directly interested, I've decided to suggest that from my conclusion... let me inform you that the first sentence of the conclusion is deleted, or that the debate will continue at the next session. In other words, my first idea was to stop the debate and move on later. So I suggest we finish today on this, and the rest of the conclusion that the Council of Ministers is bound by it, etc. It remains as the proposal for a conclusion itself. Why did I stay at this other part? ... Kola Matić gave me an answer from the defence minister to his parliamentary question where a series of measures were mentioned here, which were taken as a measure by the Ministry: adopted policy and transition programme, established regional transition centres, an analysis of personnel, etc., etc. So there's a series of measures here. I would really like the minister here at the next session when we discuss, if of course, if this report is returned, to explain all these measures that he taxed here, to see what they resulted from. So this is why giving up means that we should postpone the debate, that is, to continue it... and today we should end up pleading on the Commission's Report. Of course, I will be against the Commission's negative report and let this law live. But I remain at the code, I repeat, of the intention to be directly explained here by the minister what is one of these measures, what is with which of these measures has been achieved and what has changed their position with these measures. Thank you.
ParlaMint-BA_2010-03-16-0.u33265	Thank you. Dear Ambassador Zlatko Lagumdžija. I must warn you that you are all that could be discussed and two replicas and a business intervention, I don't know how to give you my word.
ParlaMint-BA_2010-03-16-0.u33266	I mean, call this whatever you want, since I have a proposal for a conclusion and Mr. Lozančić referred to the conclusion, I'm trying to work constructively. And, counterpart Halilović, it is particularly important for us that colleague Lozančić accepts that the Commission report is rejected and that we get practical time. I can in principle agree with his conclusion that it is expanding, only on one condition. So it contains the Council of Ministers' obligation in seven days, and it has extended the demands I have made, given greater flexibility to the Council of Ministers, which I have no objection to. It's just, if you don't mind, colleague Lozančić, that from your conclusion, if I remember correctly, we're going to cut out the obligation of the Presidency and the Council of Ministers, because we've been communicating on this subject so far, if we make a commitment to the Presidency. The second thing is that we can invite the Presidency to participate in this, but you know that there is another decision-making mechanism in the presidency. And we can, I'm just afraid the introduction of a conclusion to the Presidency doesn't come to us tomorrow from the Council of Ministers and say - I couldn't do it because our presidency didn't and we didn't coordinate in time. 70 So, I agree with your conclusion, and I am withdrawing my conclusion, if you agree that in that conclusion, we will only assign the Council of Ministers to us in seven days and, colleague Novaković, it is better to do so in seven days because as we set out today not to bond...
ParlaMint-BA_2010-03-16-0.u33267	Wait a minute, please.
ParlaMint-BA_2010-03-16-0.u33268	...that we are not bound by any session but by seven days, because today's session may take more than seven days.
ParlaMint-BA_2010-03-16-0.u33269	Wait a minute, I'm taking a break for 10 minutes. The suggestors of the conclusion should gather (one, the other, the third, the fourth) and have a discussion of the conclusions, since I now have a request from Mr. Lozančić that he also said something about the conclusion, I think it is wise to take a break of 10 minutes. [[PAUZA]] The first vice-president, Mr. Niko Lozančić, in connection with the agreement of the conclusions. Here you go.
ParlaMint-BA_2010-03-16-0.u33271	Thank you, I'll do it very briefly. So, here I think that there are all those who have participated in the proposed conclusions so far, Mr. Novaković, Mr. Lagumdžija and Mr. Halilović, who agreed to be a joint conclusion, I will read it, means: 'It is up to the Council of Ministers of BiH to submit to the House of Representatives a proposal to amend and supplement the Law on Service in the Armed Forces of BiH and a proposal for other measures which will permanently resolve the status of the current troops (ex-members of the Army of BiH, HVO and the Army of the RS) – this is in brackets – the Armed Forces of BiH, which, due to years of age, cannot remain in the membership of the Armed Forces of BiH but from 1. 1. 2010. 'years.' I suggest you support this conclusion. 71
ParlaMint-BA_2010-03-16-0.u33272	Thank you. We close the debate and move on to the 11th point: Ad. 11. Proposal for a law on the protection of geographical indications, Proposer: Council of Ministers of BiH, Law No 01, 02-02-3-18/10 of 3. 2. 2010 (first reading) The law is in first reading. The Council of Ministers delivered this law to parliamentary procedure 3. 2. The relevant Constitutional Commission Opinion on the constitutional basis and the principles of this law delivered 24. 2. I'm opening a debate on the bill in the first reading. Is there a need from the Council of Ministers for someone to explain this law? Dear Ambassador Remzija Kadrić. Here you go.
ParlaMint-BA_2010-03-16-0.u33274	I would suggest that we unify the debate since this is about laws in the field of intellectual property. Let's bring together a debate on these points from 11 to 15. I think we're having a unique debate and that's how we make this as efficient as possible. So it's about laws in the field of intellectual property, since it's one whole theme and that's how we contribute to this. _________(?) [[no microphone turned on]] But let's have a debate on one; if not, then I could say some of my general suggestions, comments about this.
ParlaMint-BA_2010-03-16-0.u33276	Thank you. 72 It is a bit unusual to combine the discussion of five legal projects, geographical origin, topography of integrated cars, industrial design, stamp, patent. However, I will put your proposal after the debate on your proposal for a vote. Dear Ambassador Šefik Džaferović. Here you go.
ParlaMint-BA_2010-03-16-0.u33277	Well, I don't think you have any need to put the motion to a vote, but this will definitely come to that. So here is a law that we have so far, as they call it, the omnibus laws, is 'in an explanation, which edited several areas from the sphere of industrial property, the intellectual property of industrial property, now practically converted into several, five of these laws. And I'd like to call the Director of the Institute who's here to have her actually tell us, these are professional laws, if you don't mind, the Constitutional Commission has supported them. I only have one question, so this second-degree decision-making body: is that as many bodies as there are laws, or is it going to be one body under all these laws at this institute? So that's an essential question for me. Here's a very short answer to that question, and then we'll be able to move on with it. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-BA_2010-03-16-0.u33278	Dear Ambassador Momčilo Novaković. Here you go.
ParlaMint-BA_2010-03-16-0.u33279	Well, you see, I think we can unite the argument, so for all the laws. So, I propose that now the proposer of this law come together to explain all the laws and then one law at a time, because I don't believe that there will be any debate, especially if we answer this question, so that we don't make these precedents unnecessary, because we're definitely going to find one law at a time in the record and nothing else.
ParlaMint-BA_2010-03-16-0.u33280	Thank you. Here's the Kolegijum agreed to go with an explanation of all the laws. We're asking the Proposer to explain. Here you are, though it will be difficult to follow five laws, but please be patient.
ParlaMint-BA_2010-03-16-0.u33281	Thank you, Your Honor. 73 Ladies and gentlemen, MPs, respected representatives of the Council of Ministers, I would like to ask before I give one general explanation about this set of laws in the area of industrial ownership just an instruction on whether it is necessary to provide information on constitutional and legal basis or just to focus on what is set on content. All documents related to BiH's integration processes towards the World Trade Organisation, according to the EU, the Stabilisation and Association Agreement, required that regulations governing the area of industrial ownership be harmonised with relevant documents. This set of five laws is the practical arrangement of a complete chapter of industrial property which is now governed by the omnibus law, as we have called it in an explanation, so by one law. It's an industrial property law in BiH. This law, the current law regulates the issue of protection of patents, trade marks and service stamps, industrial design and geographical indications. The fifth law, proposed, is the proposal for a law on the protection of topography and integrated circles, is not, or topographic law is not governed by the applicable legislation in BiH, and that is, in fact, an addition to this chapter. I'm just going to talk to you about the reasons why we decided on these separate laws. The first reason was that somewhere in 2003 and 2004, when a legislative plan for joining the World Trade Organisation, the WTO, was deposited with the World Trade Organisation, a plan that was then decided to adopt separate laws in this area. This approach is also contained in documents related to the implementation of the Stabilisation and Association Agreement and finally in the European Partnership document. We confirmed three years ago this decision to regulate this matter separately, when we prepared a strategy for the development of the Institute for Intellectual Property until 2015 adopted by the Council of Ministers 2. Seven. In 2009 and then when we produced this document, we did one analysis of how and how this matter was arranged in the countries in the environment. And to those reference countries, therefore in the EU and countries which are indeed in some way and are an example of how and how the model of the regulation of industrial property matter is arranged and according to the data used by the World Intellectual Property Organisation: of the 33 countries only in six states, including BiH, the matter of industrial property is governed by one law. I don't think we need to stress that both the TRIP agreement and it gives, in fact, powers to be able to access the regulation of this matter in this way, and the confirmation of that is that the EU countries have also approached this problem in this way. I think that the regulation of industrial property matter in the way it is now foreseen in the law would practically create one massive, trom law that would not be applicable, given that in each of these laws we have proposed important changes. Important changes concern compliance with EU directives and those obligations under the TRIP agreement. I don't know if it's necessary now, by any law, to say what are the important changes in relation to the existing solution, so here's the short one. As regards the proposal for a law on the protection of geographical indications, the current legal arrangement applies only to the right of geographical indications. And I must admit that the geographical indications contained and all those conditions as well as how and in what way someone could acquire the right to a geographical code and are not exactly satisfactorily solved, and given that our state has committed itself to access the Lisbon Treaty on the Prevention of False and False Marks on Goods, the Madrid Agreement on the Reversal of False and Cheating Marks, 74 TRIP Agreements, Directives, we appreciated that it is necessary to reconcile all systems that are related to both the TRIP Agreement and the EU Directives to regulate the issue of geographical origin, geographical indications and designations of origin. The paper, in general, can tell about all the laws, which is now being introduced by a system of recognition, i.e. for the registration of these rights – a compatible system in the EU. So the proposal for a law on the protection of geographical indications introduces an opposition or objection system. Also in the bill of law, I will refer a little later to the Proposal for a Law on the Protection of Topography and an Integrated Circle, meaning in the Proposal for a Law on Industrial Property, the important news is that instead of this substance study, we are also introducing a system that was introduced into community design, so in the design of the community, where the system of objection is introduced, where the National Administration of the Institute examines the application for absolute reasons only, while the examination of relative reasons is subject to the obligation of interested parties. Also, the proposal for a law on industrial property has extended, in practice, the provisions of the procedure for international registration of industrial design under the Hague Agreement on the International Registration of Industrial Design, which was ratified by BiH in December 2008. As far as the proposal for a brand law is concerned, the system is also significantly changed and an identical system is introduced as in the design of the community being led before OHIM. The proposal for a trade mark law also improves provisions relating to civil-law protection, customs measures. I mean, in general, all the laws are much more precisely governed by these provisions that are related to this form of protection. The patent bill also introduced a system of opposition and what is new is that now introduces the possibility of acquiring three types of patents. One is the right to a patent by carrying out a full patent application examination procedure. The second is a patent based on accepted and submitted results of a full application examination. And the third patent is so-called. Consensual patent, which is a delay in interrogation, and it lasts shorter than this, let me put it this way, a long 20-year patent. It is also important in the proposal for a patent law that provisions have been introduced to specify the procedure for obtaining the European patent under an agreement signed by the BiH Council of Ministers with the European Patent Organisation. It also introduces the Institute of Evidence on Additional Protection in accordance with two EU directives on additional protection for medicinal products and medicinal products and plant protection products. As regards the Proposal for a Law on the Protection of Topography of Integrated Circles, as I have said, topographic law is not regulated by the applicable legislation in BiH and the Bill of Law was drawn up in a way to comply with these provisions on terms and measures for the acquisition of topography rights under the contract, it is the Washington Treaty on the Protection of Topography of the Integrated Circle, which has ratified BiH in 2007 and under the EU Directive on the Protection of Semiconductive Products. I have shortened this report a little, and in general all the laws apply that we have brought these provisions into line with the requirements of the TRIP Agreement and with the relevant EU directives. 75
ParlaMint-BA_2010-03-16-0.u33282	Is one council for all?
ParlaMint-BA_2010-03-16-0.u33283	Yeah. ... Before I answer your question, what is common to all the five laws that are in the proposal is that the Proposer has proposed that all laws start to apply on the same day, that is 1 January 2011. We've explained with every law why it is. The standard for the application of these laws everywhere in the world is that from the day of entry into force, it must take at least six months to prepare and adopt the implementing rules that are indeed numerous with each of these laws. These are the first rules of procedure, examinations for each of these rights. Secondly, these are the appropriate patterns for the procedures we conduct. Then we changed the tariffs for administrative fees, special costs of the procedure and so that we would have unity in the continuity of rights compared to the current legal solution we proposed to adopt that all these laws be applied from 1 January 2011. As far as the Board of Appeals is concerned, it is... a second-degree body which is in fact an identical solution to what we have and now in force in the law against all decisions taken by the Institute in the first instance is allowed to appeal to the Board of Appeal. We have proposed in all these laws of identical provisions, so that this Board of Appeal is formed by the Council of Ministers, a certain number of members are identical, so all the important things that are related to this commission and what really stands as a dilemma, here, I would ask you to allow the Proposer to make adjustments in all the laws. Our idea was that it was one Board of Appeal, but as it stands now in all these five laws, it really seems to be five commissions. I think that should be in order of rationality, efficiency and the number of complaints we've had so far, should be one commission. It was our idea, but we didn't make it very clear in these bill proposals. Here's the information that since 2002, when the current law has been in force so far, about 80 complaints have been received. So, it's a very small number and I think that 90% of complaints refer to the decisions of the Institute in the field of stamps. There is very little in the area of patents and industrial design. In the area of geographical indications, we did not have a single complaint and I think it is indeed complete that it is then proposed to be a second-degree body and the Proposer will submit an appropriate correction to the Commission in all these laws in the amendment phase. Thank you.
ParlaMint-BA_2010-03-16-0.u33284	Thank you very much, so if there is any need and after the debate, we will ask you to speak again. Dear Representative Šefik Džaferović. 76
ParlaMint-BA_2010-03-16-0.u33285	Just for a little while, Chairman. So thank you for giving us this clarification. Please make those amendments immediately and let this two or three days sign it. Ten days is the deadline of today when this goes through in the first reading. And I got up to say one thing that's already been noticed here. At present is one thing, let no one from the Council of Ministers be angry, but here I primarily think about those services in the Council of Ministers who are obliged to take care of the consistency of the legal rules, their interlinkage, their leanings on each other, their applicability – to open four eyes when it comes to this matter. It is known which institutions are and this is therefore for those of the Council of Ministers who, on behalf of the Council of Ministers, follow this session and let this be transferred. After the Law on Ministrys and other authorities of the administration, when an obvious mistake has been made when it comes to those institutions that entered as independent administrative organisations, I call on everyone to open four eyes and to monitor what is done. Here we are today and now... we are in a position not to know whether at one institute we will have four committees for four questions or five questions or if we will have one commission that will have five areas to deal with in the second degree. And here's the director told us here honestly that from these laws, I saw it when I read those laws, it can't tell if it's one or five. And the problem arises when the law starts to apply and then with the right finger points to Parliament, because it is Parliament. We before Parliament so many services and so many security mechanisms have institutionally embedded that there is no mistake in Parliament that if they all worked we wouldn't be in a position to make a mistake. Therefore, I am publicly asking all the services of the Council of Ministers that follow this area to open four eyes before the law comes to Parliament. This is now someone stepped up might be tracking. It's a shame that in addition to two homes, four readings, procedures at the Council of Ministers, we're in a position to make a mistake. The other day we had the Labour Act, a public debate. I thought it was funny to have a public debate about that law. That was my opinion. Here I voted, all the others wanted, but when I came to the public debate I saw that it was no mistake at all to hold a public debate, because only in the second phase, in the public debate, before the House of Representatives opened up issues that had to be opened in the phase of consultation when writing laws, not adoption, discussions, but when writing laws. People came and said, "People didn't have a chance to communicate." They bring out ideas that are healthy, which must be incorporated into the law. So, let this serve as a moment, I ask the Council of Ministers... this may be a more quality phase in which we are now. The laws were written to us by strangers for a few years, and then we, along with strangers, wrote laws, and now more and more we write laws ourselves. It is, let's now be the next stage that what comes here to Parliament to be springed, that there are no lawyers, there is no expert who can resist that law. Make it the next phase, and then there'll be no mistakes. That's it, thank you. 77
ParlaMint-BA_2010-03-16-0.u33286	Thank you. The next is Remzija Kadrić, a respected representative.
ParlaMint-BA_2010-03-16-0.u33287	I thank you, Chairman. I'll do it very briefly. So, when it comes to this protection of rights from this area to the courts, judicial protection, so here I ask the promoter if the Ministry of Justice has been consulted because here it is generally proposed in all these laws of urgency. What's the opinion, what's the Justice Department's position on this matter? And yet there are many more institutions that are related to this, the Directorate for indirect taxation, as far as we are prepared to implement it... So, I ask the promoter in that section: How much was co-operation, when this law was made with the Ministry of Justice and other institutions, the Department of Direct Taxation and others. So this is where the emergency procedure is proposed. With regard to judicial protection from this area, how and in what way should this be provided? So both the Ministry of Justice and many others need to be as involved in this as possible when we do the amendment phase, to do it in such quality, what Šefik Džaferović said, not to promote many things that shouldn't happen.
ParlaMint-BA_2010-03-16-0.u33288	Thank you. So now I have to clear up a dilemma. Have we already entered the debate on item 11. So let's take it in a row. Mr. Kadrić, this law has been proposed by the Council of Ministers and is to assume that the Office of Law, as Mr. Džaferović spoke of, and all the resolution ministries that they have participated in this and their part of responsibility. But here, if there are no more reported by point 11, so under the proposal for a law on the protection of geographical indications, I am concluding the debate on point 11. And we're going to point 12, so, "Ad." 12. Proposal for a Law on the Protection of Topography of Integrated Cars, Proposer: Council of Ministers of BiH, Law No 01,02-02-2-16/10 of 3. 2. 2010 (first reading) I can say the same thing as point 11. We had introductory notes. 78 So, I am opening a debate on the Proposal for a Law on the Protection of Topography of Integrated Cars. There are no reports. I'm closing the debate. We're going to the 13th point, Ad. 13. Proposal for a Law on Industrial Design, Proposer: Council of Ministers of BiH, Law No 01,02-02-2-15/10 of 3. 2. 2010 (first reading)
ParlaMint-BA_2010-03-16-0.u33294	Thank you very much, Mr. Chairman. We should all be experts here. We have before us a law that is very important and what is most important: nothing is controversial but very important, consistent with the EU, done with many international institutions and the NATO Pact. Why does it matter to us? After the signing of the agreement with the EU, we will all have more and more EU acts and documents that will now have a pass-by when we adopt this law, because certain officials, people, officials in certain positions will come to EU acts that could not be sent to us only by post and say - get along with this, accept this - but we will have one open one, I would say, a real correspondence with these institutions and do not need much debt. So, we have before us a law that is not disputed, in line with all of us, that is of great benefit to BiH, especially to co-operate with the EU, with all the notifications of the NATO Pact, the OSCE, and all other international organisations, so I think this law should be passed. A great benefit for BiH. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-BA_2010-03-16-0.u33295	I thank Mr. Jovičić for his useful information. I'm closing the debate. We're going to point 17, so 80 Ad. 17. Proposal for a Law on the Promotion of Small and Medium Enterprises and Entrepreneurship in Bosnia and Herzegovina, Proposer: Council of Ministers of BiH, Law No 01,02-02-4-12/10 of 28.1.2010 (first reading) The resolution minister, Mr Zirojević, has been very patient today waiting for this law to come to order. Therefore, it is a very important law relating to the implementation of the Strategy on the Development of Small and Medium-sized Enterprises. The advice of the Minstar is a natural proposer. The Constitutional Commission has delivered its opinion to us and we have also received from the competent Commission for Economic Reform and Development on Principles 1. 3. So, I am opening a debate on the proposal for a law on promotion of small and medium-sized redundancies and entrepreneurship. Let's take it in a row. Husein Nanić. Here you go, Mr. Nanić.
ParlaMint-BA_2010-03-16-0.u33297	I thank you, Chairman. Here we have received this law and our obligation under the document is the European Partnership and the creation of a Strategy on Small and Medium Enterprises, too, as our commitment from the European Partnership. What I'd like to comment on here and try to get maybe the answers from the rest of the ministry are as follows. A few things. The name 'Law on the promotion of small and medium-sized enterprises and entrepreneurship in BiH' was subsequently developed, and the division of enterprises into micro, small and medium-sized enterprises might be well mentioned in the name itself if it remains in the name of the micro-enterprise for certain companies called themselves. I'd like to comment on that. So, I suggest, i.e. I have a dilemma: should the name of micro, small and medium-sized enterprises and in the very name of the law be indicated? The next thing I'd like to share a dilemma with the minister is Article 3. ... means division by company size: a micro-enterprise, so it's called a company that employs less than nine people and has a balance sheet less than 4 million. Micro? I don't think it might be the best name chosen for a micro-enterprise, so, which employs up to nine people. I'm having a little bit of an idea of whether he's standard, whether he's being used as comparable to other countries somewhere, etc. I think maybe you should think about some other name... of that company. The next thing I would like to comment on is a Article 9 that defines the creation of a strategy and programmes for the development and promotion of small and medium-sized enterprises and entrepreneurship, item 1 which says that 'The Council of Ministers adopts the Small and Medium Enterprises Development Strategy, which is based on entity strategies and is adopted for a period of three years. Item 2 also states that the Strategy also draws up the Annual Development and Promotion Programme of Small Enterprises and Position 3 which says the programme is adopted by the Council of Ministers no later than the end of March of the current year. All three attitudes 81 are linked, which is why I can't individually. Generally, I think this programme adopted by the Council of Ministers is too late in March to be adopted for that year. All the plans in the companies have been made, the budgets have been adopted because it is also related to the budgets of certain activities that are planned. I think that for this current year this deadline should be moved at least before the start of the current year, that the programme should be adopted on an annual basis. The next thing to this article again is about this three-year strategy: it does not say when the first strategy and deadlines will be adopted by the first strategy. It is not in transitional and final provisions anywhere defined, so the annual programme is derived from this strategy. So these two things are connected and I think it has to be defined when the first strategy is to be adopted, to make this annual strategy out of it. And the next thing I would like to comment on is Article 16 which speaks of the composition and appointment of the members of the Forum, among other things, under point e) says that the Forum has 14 permanent members, and point e) says that they are being filled, among other things, by the Agency for the Encouragement and Development of Small and Medium Enterprises, SMEs, each of the entities and Brcko District. As far as I know, entities don't have these agencies formed. And if so, then we are in a position not to be able to form this forum but may have to leave an alternative because this law does not provide that entity agencies must be formed. Whether they have or not, this law cannot define it, cannot order it, cannot determine it. So this thing I think needs to be more specific. And the next thing I would also like to do here is to trouble Head v. finansijski assets, where it is said: 'To implement this law, there is no need to secure additional financial resources from the BiH institutions' 2009 and 2010. year.' I agree here, certainly for 2009, that it is not necessary, and for 2010 and 2011, means, if it has the ambition to go into commitments of some to two years related to these annual programmes that I have been talking about, I don't think this position here can stand, given that Article 10 provides, which speaks of incentive measures, and it says that they mean 'give assistance to increase employment, help to participate in international fairs, establish an information system, provide assistance for the application of innovation and the introduction of modern technologies, set up venture capital funds'. And the second thing, b) Funding the work of the 14-member Forum, I don't think it's understood in this law, and I don't think these people are going to volunteer. These two things, meaning these incentive measures and the establishment of the Forum, I think they require financial resources, and here in this chapter V. needs to be clearly specified and provided for the financial resources needed to implement this law. In any case, I support the adoption of this law and I think it is something BiH needs and BiH's economy.
ParlaMint-BA_2010-03-16-0.u33298	Thank you very much. 82 Here we also got a forum as a form of chartering. Mr. Željko Kuzmanović.
ParlaMint-BA_2010-03-16-0.u33299	Thank you, Your Honor. I welcome my colleagues and MPs, especially my colleagues from the Ministry of Foreign Trade and Economic Relations. Here, I must say, first of all, I'm glad we can finally discuss some law we don't touch in '41, '45, '92. and '95. It's about the current moment we're living in. As you know, our country has not only been and ours has been in a major economic crisis in the last two years, and therefore any law that will promote and encourage our country's entrepreneurship should be welcomed. I don't want to talk about the details, because it's about the principles of the law, so we'll try to Nanić things better in the amendment phase, too. I just want to find that, given that I myself have been engaged in entrepreneurship, entrepreneurship on a very low branch in BiH and that the conditions of business for entrepreneurs and the framework in which entrepreneurs in BiH operate are a level of scientific fiction. And I really admire how someone can survive in these conditions at all. I therefore welcome any attempt that will lead to an improvement in business conditions. I have to note that lately we have a very large drop in the inflow of foreign investment, precisely because of the large administrative barriers that exist in the domain of medium and small enterprises, especially in the registration and paperwork needed in that domain. So I also welcome the formation of this forum. And here I was having some misunderstandings about this classification that Mr. Nanić also mentioned. Here we have removed, together with the minister, the classification of small, medium, i.e. micro, small, medium and large enterprises. She's as far as I can figure out... The European Commission and made on the recommendations of the European Commission, so I hope the minister will explain the part in his presentation. Thank you.
ParlaMint-BA_2010-03-16-0.u33300	Let's move on. Velimir Jukić.
ParlaMint-BA_2010-03-16-0.u33301	Mr. Chairman, colleagues, colleagues, distinguished members of the Council of Ministers, dear guests, here I have answered to say a few words about this important law. And finally it was time for this law to come to our benches. However, what I want to say at the beginning is the fact that we did not discuss 83 here in this House on the Small and Medium Entrepreneurship Strategy adopted by the Council of Ministers about, I don't know, half a year and a little more. I think it's a big failure that we didn't have here to discuss, because in this law, as it's written, at least 20 times, and perhaps more, I didn't exactly count, this law refers to that strategy that we didn't, unfortunately; I did; but we didn't get it officially that we're considering it here, or that we're getting to know it, or that we're also confirming, if we don't have to adopt it, that at least we have an insight into it, so we're telling our opinion about it. However, it is a fact and I think it would be good if at least now all MPs would get this strategy and that they could study it, if not before, then now within this procedure until this law is current, while it is in the procedure for adoption. I'm the title of this law, I think it could have been a lot simpler, actually, it shouldn't have been anything but a "Law on Small and Medium Entrepreneurship." Category, the name of small and medium-sized enterprises and... the company is a concept adopted in almost all EU countries and it is such an opt-out and should not be changed in terms of micro, small and medium-sized. So, small and medium-sized enterprises or SM, the sector, etc., as they call it in EU countries. However, what is particularly important and important, which is that BiH, as it is, with a broken economy, is poorly restored, for now these capacities, has a very big chance for its overall development, above all in the small and medium-sized enterprises sector. If we have some information about how many businesses there are on the number of people, up to a thousand people in BiH, and thus the total number, we come up with very devastating data, which is that there are at least registered companies in BiH per thousand inhabitants in this region, and among the smallest in Europe. Also, if we know that the EU has adopted a Lisbon strategy for small and medium-sized enterprises, where it has defined the importance of small and medium-sized enterprises in the following way: that, through this sector, the EU's economy should be the most competitive and dynamic of all, and that this is the biggest role played by small and medium-sized enterprises. That the EU thinks very seriously, they have formed a Fund for Small and Medium-sized Enterprises, which is over 500 billion euros, and they have again determined that it is for certain areas, I don't know, and I don't know, help with access to funding, training, innovation, etc. I'm saying this all for reasons for us to recognize and see how others, those who are our role models, look at this problem. And I think, and I will say it again, I have already said that the specific importance of small and medium-sized enterprises for BiH's economy is even greater than it is for the EU. I think that's why we've missed a lot of work so far, and now's the chance to at least fix it. We'll fix only part of it through this law. Now I'm going to say something about what has been done with our strategy adopted by the Council of Ministers. Unfortunately, we have failed to do again what the EU has suggested, and that is to predict and form a fund for small and medium-sized enterprises through this strategy. We have once again improvised with a solution which is mentioned here and here, etc., taking into account the fact that the constitutional structure has, to a certain extent, predetermined perhaps this concept as we have identified ourselves through the strategy. However, it seems to me that there were many more reasons and elements, respecting these limitations, that it would still be a fund which would then certainly be a much, much more appropriate solution and would allow easier access to our businesses to these funds, or to the fund that I mentioned, which is provided by the EU, which can again be applied and accessed by a certain procedure. About some of the solutions in this law, so I think the show should have been simpler first. 84 Furthermore, the law is drawn up more as a framework, actually without some details, because in detail it calls for legislation existing in entities, Brcko District, and also for strategy. About these classifications, so what is it, I don't even know that the micro-enterprise is from neither I know from 0 to 9 etc. It's okay and this is consistent with standards and classifications that are valid in the EU, and it doesn't need to be specifically commented... but maybe it's wrong to say it in an explanation, so that it's not a topic at all, because it doesn't have to be a subject, this is correct done. However, what is important and important, the objectives of Chapter II. The objectives and strategies and the development and promotion programme of small and medium-sized enterprises and enterprises. You see, here are the goals just listed. However, it may have taken a little more and some clarifications as well as how these goals will be achieved in some ways. Furthermore, we also have a chapter in the Encouragement Measures, where all these measures are quite correctly listed. But I'll tell you what's the main problem again. The main problem will be to realize these goals and achieve... through these measures. Because I'm going to say again, the way it's imagined, we're going to bh. We have only one forum from the state level in this area, i.e. this forum through the council, so this notional couple, so a forum council for the promotion of small and medium-sized enterprises and entrepreneurship. I think this is, however, not to be resented by lawmakers, a little improvisation, and I fear that in this way we will not be able to achieve all those potentials that this sector of small and medium-sized enterprises and entrepreneurship offers and provides as an opportunity and as an opportunity in BiH, especially through employment, greater competitiveness, easier access, training, etc., easier access to funds, then access to funding sources etc. And here, in the end, I'm going to end up with my one general conclusion. It's a good thing this law is here. It could have been in my opinion and better, or the overall concept could have been different, and I said the concept was created when it was a strategy. And unfortunately, it was then made a big, in my opinion, mistake that the Council of Ministers at that stage of policymaking in this area did not give that strategy to discuss Parliament and to take opinions about it and then, after a defined concept through that strategy, then, I am convinced, would have a completely different, better and better-quality law, which would guarantee that small and medium-sized entrepreneurship would be really that stopper, that the overall BiH economy would move far more dynamically forward. I won't be long, thank you for your attention.
ParlaMint-BA_2010-03-16-0.u33302	Thank you. Dear Member Nermin Zaimović Uzunović. Here you go.
ParlaMint-BA_2010-03-16-0.u33303	Thank you very much, Chairman. My colleagues and colleagues, distinguished ministers and representatives of the resolution ministry who offered us this law, I really support everything that my colleagues have said before and it all makes 85 sense, but I would also like to add something to this material that we received in our first reading. So I'm not going to talk in detail, maybe not as much as the predecessors said, but I'm going to point out some general things. So, the fact is that BiH is in the last place in Europe and in the region when it comes to the development and strengthening of small and medium-sized enterprises, as shown by the 2009 European Charter estimates that we have the worst score. Unfortunately, BiH has not yet respected its obligations and recommendations that followed from the documents it has signed and is therefore very important, knowing that small and medium-sized enterprises represent the backbone of BiH's economy, it is very important to regulate relations in the areas of small and medium-sized enterprises, which can be regulated by this law. And it is also important to comply with European legislation and with all those documents they require, which is what counterpart Jukić was talking about earlier. Then, these are... The European Charter of Small and Medium Enterprises, the European Partnership and, also, with best practices in this area. So the crown document of this whole thing is this law that we're supposed to bring here. The Joint Committee on Economic Reform and Development and the Constitutional Legal Commission discussed the proposals in the form in which they were delivered, they forwarded it to us. I think that since it is a law that is of paramount importance for BiH, for all its citizens, and which is interested in a wide range of employers' associations, businessmen, we appreciate that the proposal should be made as transparent as possible and incorporated into it possibly new, i.e.. to improve possibly this proposed solution. I therefore propose that the adoption today of which this law would be put into public debate, i.e. hold a public debate on the proposed text of this law. I appreciate that the team would contribute to the quality, given the procedures that are quite complex... that we can; of course, we have the possibility of giving and amendments to the proposed text, but I think it would be very good for the general public to hold a public debate on such an important law of general importance. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-BA_2010-03-16-0.u33304	Thank you. Dear Ambassador Adem Huskić, please.
ParlaMint-BA_2010-03-16-0.u33305	Thank you. I won't owe because most of what I think is important already are colleagues, but I would like to take the opportunity to say, and that's fair to say that here I want to congratulate the minister and this ministry on, among other things, and this law and here's the minister sitting very patiently with us and listening and listening to what he probably doesn't care about, but he's here. And that's why I think it's public speaking... and publicly commending him for this law. _________(?) 86 [[no microphone turned on]] Well, it doesn't matter which party, it's important that a man works. It's said it doesn't matter what color the cat is, it's important to hunt mice. So, I want to say this. Unfortunately, [[Common discussion]]
ParlaMint-BA_2010-03-16-0.u33307	I'll have to take a break if you guys keep this up.
ParlaMint-BA_2010-03-16-0.u33308	Is it me or these guys around?
ParlaMint-BA_2010-03-16-0.u33309	No shared discussion microphone turned on
ParlaMint-BA_2010-03-16-0.u33310	I scared them. Here you go.
ParlaMint-BA_2010-03-16-0.u33311	So it seems to me that the minister, i.e. this ministry, has done a maximum of one in terms of this law, given his constitutional authority and the constitutional structure of BiH, but I am afraid that this is also a very difficult circumstance and that this law will ultimately be aware of a kind of declaration, which I think is a major damage. And I don't think it takes much to convince ourselves that the business and business and business environment in our country is very bad, because that's what my colleague Jukić said. I remember here a presentation of a little older to say 1,000 inhabitants in BiH have nine businesses, and Croatia 14, Hungary 70 etc. So, there's some kind of system error that dims people into dealing with entrepreneurship and I think we have to commit ourselves very seriously to this problem and create an ambience of such that people here invest, both domestics and foreigners much more. I'm afraid that we are acting in one way to see the best chance in the budget and that the state is the best employer and the easiest job on the budget and from there we get paid, and no one, no one will work, so to speak. Niko, everybody wants to get out of the budget, and nobody wants to push money into the budget. That's, I mean, the biggest problem in this country. But if we look at article 9 of this law, he says the Ministry will work its strategy based on entity strategies. To what extent these 87 entity strategies will be mutually compatible, compatible, etc., to that extent the Ministry will be able to make, and I don't think they should be shot at if something is wrong, but at these others. They in this case look like a clay pigeon who... that we have someone to shoot at, and he can't fly. So it might be good, if possible, to make some coordination with entities that some things, not to pass on jurisdiction, but to increase the degree of right to the ministry, because I really see that people have good intentions, and their opportunities are small. Well, that was my contribution. Thank you.
ParlaMint-BA_2010-03-16-0.u33312	Minister, will you listen to Velimir Jukić for the line, and then. Here you go.
ParlaMint-BA_2010-03-16-0.u33313	Oh, here's Mr. Huskić talking a little bit about the shortcomings of this law. I'd say another flaw, actually, I'd go up, I'd support it, and in part, here, and I'd replicate it. So the problem in this law is that it is so designed, and in fact also in the strategy that the Parliamentary Assembly of BiH is completely excluded from all these problems, issues, well, and let's call it that, then through the development of some processes etc. I think that, in my opinion, the basic lack of such a concept is through a strategy, and then by abandoning it to be a development fund and then beyond that, there was a legal solution that was only a logical continuation of the already condemned concept of resolving this issue. I think here... the opportunity may be now in this amendment phase that somehow the BiH Parliament will get its part in this. Why? For the simple reason that the situation in this area is so bad. I'll repeat my thinking. So the potential of this sector is so great and it has to be both per se and is the basis,
ParlaMint-BA_2010-03-16-0.u33314	Just a little bit, please.
ParlaMint-BA_2010-03-16-0.u33315	The force for the overall development of BiH, especially with the fact that we have come out of the war with the situation as it is, etc., and that it would be good for, and under this law, every few times, at least once a year, to open a debate on the situation in this area and the problems, with the aim of then seeing what and how to change in terms and strategies, to innovate it, to change it, etc. And then, of course, through a change of law. 88
ParlaMint-BA_2010-03-16-0.u33316	Thank you. Minister Mladen Zirojević. Here you go, Minister.
ParlaMint-BA_2010-03-16-0.u33317	The Honorable Chairman, honourable MPs, definitely, is the law that we are currently discussing, which is the most important law, which is proposed by the Ministry of Foreign Trade and Economic Relations. And, ever since I was head of that ministry, I've had a lot of work, effort, contact with entity resolution ministers and prime ministers until I came to the position that this law should be unanimously adopted at the College of the Ministry and at the Council of Ministers. It's the same situation with this strategy. If it were simple to do so, it would not have been that strategy that was proposed for the period 2005-2007 that ended in an infamous way. Here, as you said, the first time was unanimously adopted in April at the 84th session of the Council of Ministers, which preceded this draft law. The importance of the law given the problem it deals with does not need to be particularly explained, taking into account the fact that 95% and perhaps a little more economic operators in BiH are precisely classified in this category of small and medium-sized enterprises, micro-enterprises. The commitment of the European Partnership is not particularly stressed by... short-term priorities; the commitment from the Stabilisation Agreement, but from the obligation stemming from BiH's former integration, such as the 2000 Charter of Small Enterprises, which BiH joined in Thessaloniki in 2003, as well as the commitment from the Small Enterprises Act, entrepreneurship, which was adopted by the European Commission in June 2008. There have been really quality discussions here that can significantly affect the final text of the law. Of course, we'll figure it out. Dear Ambassador Husein Nanić always has really quality remarks. The question of why the law is called just like this, because it's a European standard. From Articles 1 to 7 are provisions which the European Commission has insisted on. There were questions in this classification that were defined by Article 7 and this sub (a) from 0 to 1 employee. A little illogical, but that's exactly right. Here, there's my assistant, I guess that's the European standard. Maybe for keeping statistics. I just don't have a more logical explanation for what that is. The law is almost identical to the law that has long been in force and in force in Croatia. Croatia has long been the country that had the only one in the region. The law defines and foresees the establishment, which is the most important in all of this, and it needed the most work and efforts to achieve and obtain some political compromise,... the institutional, administrative capacity of BiH in the light of the newly formed sector that will be formed at the Ministry of Trade and Economic Relations, which will have the task of dealing with this problem, to worry about the realization of tasks aimed at developing small and medium-sized enterprises' entrepreneurship and which will have a priority to create and implement operational programmes based on which the funds from that famous IPA component III – regional development will again be withdrawn. 89 March? You mentioned March as a deadline for programming, and I don't see anything wrong with the way the amendment looks to change that deadline. It was me... who consulted with my assistant: whether the Strategy should have been referred to Parliament, I did not escape from being the subject of debate and in front of this respected home. It was simply adopted as a document at the Council of Ministers unanimously and there was no conclusion that it was coming to you. If it could have been better, it might have been, but believe me, it took a lot of effort, a lot of contacts, a lot of persuasion that here we would have this text right here. That's it.
ParlaMint-BA_2010-03-16-0.u33318	Thank you, Minister. We don't have any more logs. We're closing the debate. And we're going to the 18th point of the agenda: Ad. 18. Proposal for a law on amendments and additions to Bosnia and Herzegovina's Election Law, Proponents: MEPs Milorad Živković, Niko Lozančić and Šefik Džaferović, Law No: 01-02-9/10 of 10. 2. 2010 (first reading) Here you go, business intervention. Dear Ambassador Momčilo Novaković, please.
ParlaMint-BA_2010-03-16-0.u33320	You see, I'd like to request a break, so in accordance with Article 77. Rules of Procedure, I'll explain. I'm looking for a 20-minute break, so we don't waste much time. I'll explain why. I mean, Mr. Chairman, that you deliberately or not, misinformed us during the session of some events. It's not possible that journalists are chasing us for participation in some shows tonight for nothing. I think it would be a good idea if you called an extended college, if nothing else, if we all met here or at least the club presidents, they could meet clubs, with what's really going on in this building, and otherwise. I've got here, actually brought from some news portals and it's impossible that we're saying nothing's going on, we've been working here perfectly normal, nothing's happening to us in BiH. I will uzeću just a few titles: Action by the RS MUP; In Bratunc, more people are detained; Arrested Deputy Chief of the Municipality of Srebrenica Ćamil Duraković; Deputy Chief of Staff of Srebrenica arrested for sexual abuse of minors; akcija Bratunac; Possible arrest in Parliament; Arresting in Srebrenica; ministar Sadik Ahmetović case investigation; Arresting in Srebrenica, arrested school director, professor, police officer, Minister Ahmetović on site, arrest Imam Mirsad 90 Huseinović; Arresting in Srebrenica; ministar Ahmetović gives a statement. Next, Ahmetović made a statement to the RS MUP inspectors. It's impossible for all of these titles, I mean, it's not right that we're completely unbalanced about this, and I'm really looking for a break of 20 minutes, and I'd like to ask for a session of the extended college, first of all, if some of us accept to be guests of some shows tonight, that at least we have the right information, that we don't jump out there with any information, because here's what, I've just read some of the headlines from the portals that have been published in the last hour.
ParlaMint-BA_2010-03-16-0.u33321	Thank you. Timeout 20 minutes, extended college in O.R. 2/II. [[PAUZA]] My fellow Members and fellow Members, please just a few notes and let us try to sum up what we agreed on at the Expansive College. Namely, the majority's proposal is to end today's session at the 18th agenda, to vote on the session being held on Tuesday at 10.00 p.m. and to ask you to be flexible in maintaining that session, as well as the following. Namely, the next one is scheduled for Wednesday at 10.00 p.m. on Wednesday, but if we could finish this session Tuesday in the early hours, there is the possibility that we could continue on Wednesday, or on Tuesday afternoon, continue, or start that new session to continue on Wednesday and finish it. It's some flexibility that I'm asking you to try and finish, because we're left with the agenda points that we're postponing every day and I'm afraid we're going to be in a position not to discuss them. That's why I'm calling you now to vote, which means that according to the Rules of Procedure, this session is scheduled to continue for Tuesday at 10.00 hours. Please _________(?) [[no microphone turned on]]
ParlaMint-BA_2010-03-16-0.u33324	I appreciate that you had a session of the Expansive College, but let us also have the right to say here and here at the session perhaps some things that are not in line with what you have agreed. In fact, for a long time many of us have spoken and asked why we work one day a week, so we continue the sessions seven days later? Last time we worked Wednesday, I didn't see any objective reasons, even for the last four years, why we didn't continue this session on Thursday or Friday. A team before we see it, here we go from neighbours in Croatia and Serbia, that people work around the clock for five days. If there's any valid reason as an MP and other colleagues would like to know what that is? And that is why I think it would be a good conclusion: if we continue this session on Tuesday, we will work on Wednesday and Thursday and Friday uninterrupted to absorb the agenda of the follow-up and this session on the agenda. That's my suggestion of a conclusion, and I apologize if I've disrupted your plans, but I really don't think there's any reason why we don't do a little bit of an accelerated rhythm, because that's what neighbors do, too, so why don't we, especially when we're late.
ParlaMint-BA_2010-03-16-0.u33325	I don't think there's any need to explain your proposals, because the extended college is where the schedule is determined even for next month. You also received a proposal for a session, i.e. what has been established by the Extended College for the next month. You have your representative in the Expansive College and you can suggest all of this there. As for next week, next week's even afternoon, the College is going to an official visit to the Finnish parliament, and that's something that's scheduled for a month in advance. Therefore, the Extended College is a place where we can agree on what you were talking about and no problem. But you have to make that suggestion there and the other club presidents agree with that way and that proposal. As for today's proposal, we will vote on a proposal that has been crystallized at the Extended College, which I have cited, and you can say that you also vote on your proposal to continue the session tomorrow. Nanić, did you want to?
ParlaMint-BA_2010-03-16-0.u33326	No microphone turned on
ParlaMint-BA_2010-03-16-0.u33327	Here you are, Bećirović, a brief intervention. 92
ParlaMint-BA_2010-03-16-0.u33328	I'm not at the end of the session, I really have no intention of disrupting what you've agreed on at the Expansive College, but here, as some compromise proposal, as an MP here at the House of Representatives session, I really suggest to all of you in the College that you try to consider this idea that here if we can't already do two days and three days from next session if we should and five days before we wear out a session. I think it's much better than having one session last us a month because we continue one day each week. So I'm just giving you a public initiative here at Parliament's session to think about it.
ParlaMint-BA_2010-03-16-0.u33329	I simply refer you to the president of your club and to a place where we can discuss your proposal a little bit more. Because if we start to discuss this, today... the conclusion of the session will be turned into certain controversy and let me tell you that on Thursdays the Council of Ministers held meetings and that they begged us not to hold sessions on Thursdays etc., etc. I'm telling you about it that the place you're proposing is an extended college where we can talk about it and tell the arguments why it's like this. Dear Ambassador Husein Nanić, come in.
ParlaMint-BA_2010-03-16-0.u33330	I thank you, Chairman. I'm really sorry that here I'm discussing this point, but I hope that... 18.15 is, I don't think we should create an atmosphere that we can't work until eight hours, we're working from ten to six with breaks of two, three hours, I don't know, there's no parliament in the world that works less, I really think so. And... look, I'm going to tell you openly, I'm spreading the story here, but even when I report to the agenda points, I get the feeling that it's shortening, that, to really... I don't want to name it, but I'd like to not even discuss it then, certain views and throws, etc. At the beginning of this session today, I suggested something similar to what Mr. Denis Bećirović said and I kept quiet when the chairman said this about the Extended College. We do not have a situation now so that we should be resolved, but we have a situation already present for almost two months: that every week we have a parliament. Allow me and apologize for spreading the story a little bit, but we MPs have an obligation to work both in the electoral unit and to respect those who are in Sarajevo and who need half an hour to come to the session, but allow us, there are those who travel 500 km and we have an obligation to work in the constituency on the preparation of these laws, etc. And in that sense, I would really like to join this initiative to plan not one but if it takes three or four days to plan to sit down, to finish the session, so that we can work quality. We are in a position to make a decision without a full conscience. We have today had one of the Laws on Armed Forces where... we have no information about this law, we need to make 93 decisions on this law, and to discuss two hours and to see that we have no information and no Council of Ministers and Ministers. So there's really a lot to say about this, I'm calling for these things to be defined in preparation for the next session and the next sessions that we have there to plan enough time; it's easy if we're done before time goes, rather than leaving again for next week. So, to plan the time, so that no one is nervous about questions, that we have enough time to be able to discuss and prepare and prepare for the amendments in quality.
ParlaMint-BA_2010-03-16-0.u33331	Thank you. I would try to prevent anyone who responded simply by calling to article 61. The Rules of Procedure by which the Enlarged College shall determine the calendar for the following month, including the dates or weeks in which the plenary sessions are scheduled. The calendar is being delivered to MPs, the House Commissions, the BiH presidency and the BiH Council of Ministers. So far, discussions suggest that clubs do not discuss, that club presidents do not come to the extended college with their calendar proposals in terms of what has been said. Please get rid of these things you just said in your clubs. Put in charge of the presidents of your clubs that when a calendar is determined for next month, they make proposals. This is now unacceptable for everyone, past the club president and past his club, to propose certain terms and ways to conduct this session. I'm just pointing you to the time and place you need to handle it. And that's the way this congregation can work, otherwise we'll be in a position to replicate everything to everyone. Dear Ambassador Momčilo Novaković, please.
ParlaMint-BA_2010-03-16-0.u33332	No microphone turned on
ParlaMint-BA_2010-03-16-0.u33333	Thank you. Dear Ambassador Martin Raguž, here you are.
ParlaMint-BA_2010-03-16-0.u33334	It's not about all club presidents.
ParlaMint-BA_2010-03-16-0.u33335	Thank you. 94 I only cited those who discussed it, I told them about those who discussed it. Dear Ambassador Mehmed Suljkanović, please.
ParlaMint-BA_2010-03-16-0.u33336	Well, I'd just like a very short one. Since you announced a college trip to Finland on Wednesday, perhaps one proposal to give this session scheduled for Tuesday that we start it on Monday and that we will definitely finish it by Wednesday afternoon.
ParlaMint-BA_2010-03-16-0.u33337	We have a proposal that came to the Expansive College: we will interrupt the session at the 18th item of the agenda and continue on Tuesday at 10.00 hours. Please prepare to vote. You can vote now! "For" 24, "against" four, "restricted" three, sufficient entity majority. I understand we adopted this proposal. Please, in accordance with what I said, be flexible, you will be invited to the next session; if we finish this session at a certain time on Tuesday, we can continue the next session on Tuesday and continue it on Wednesday. Thank you. The seat was interrupted at 6:22 p.m.
