ParlaMint-BA_2010-06-24-0.u7809	Ladies and gentlemen, honored colleagues and fellow delegates, present representatives of the Council of Ministers and the international community, respected media representatives, I warmly welcome you and open the 47th session of the House of Peoples of the Parliamentary Assembly of Bosnia and Herzegovina. Today's session is attended by 13 delegates, three from the Bosniak people and five from the Croatian and Serbian people. Alma Čolo and Hilmo Neimarlija are rightly absent and are not attending the session today. For today's 47th session, I suggest the next 1. Answers to delegates' questions and delegates' questions; 2. The adoption of the minutes of the 46th session of the House of Peoples; 3. The request of the BiH Council of Ministers to consider the Proposal for a Law on Amendments and Supplements to the Border Control Act under an emergency procedure, in accordance with Article 122. Rules of Procedure; 4. Proposal for a Law amending and supplementing the Law on Customs Policy of Bosnia and Herzegovina (second reading) – Proposer of the Council of Ministers of BiH; 5. Proposal for a Law on Amendments and Supplements to the Law on the Financing of Political Parties (second reading) – Delegates Dušanka Majkić, Ilija Filipović and Hazim Rančić; 6. Proposal for a revised BiH strategy for the implementation of Annex VII. Dayton Agreement (second reading), Act of the BiH Ministry of Human Rights and Refugees, No 01-37-31010 of 15.2.2010; 7. Proposal for a Law amending the Law on Public Procurement of BiH (first reading) – Proposer of the House of Representatives; 8. Proposal for a Law on Amendments and Supplements to the Law on the conduct of a judicial examination in Bosnia and Herzegovina (first reading) – Proposer of the Council of Ministers of BiH; 9. Proposal to amend and supplement the Code of Conduct of MPs and delegates in the Parliamentary Assembly of BiH (first reading) – Proposer of the Joint Commission for Human Rights, Rights of the Child, Youth, Immigration, Refugees, Asylum and Ethics; 10. Report on the work of the National Regulatory Commission for Electricity in 2009; 2 11. Report on the work of the Management Board of Bosnia and Herzegovina Export Credit Agency for 2009; 12. A report on the protection of personal data in Bosnia and Herzegovina; 13. Report on the 2009 State Investigation and Protection Agency (SIPA), with a Declaration on Certain Questions; 14. A report on the work of the Independent Committee as an independent body of the police structure in BiH for 2009 and the Plan for the work of the Independent Committee as an independent body of the police structure in BiH for 2010; 15. Information on the state of security in Bosnia and Herzegovina in 2009; 16. Information on the work of the Bosnia and Herzegovina Prosecutor's Office for 2009; 17. The appointment of five members of the Independent Commission to monitor the conditions of stay in institutions, the conduct and respect of human rights of persons subject to criminal sanctions and other measures imposed in the BiH Court of Justice's criminal proceedings, by foreign courts for acts provided for by the BiH Criminal Law or by an international contract signed by BiH, or by another court in accordance with BiH law (proposed list of candidates of the Interim Joint Commission both at home, 30.3.2010); 18. Appointment of the Executive Director of the Anti-Corruption Prevention and Coordination Agency; 19. Setting up guidelines for the action of temporary delegations who, on behalf of Bosnia and Herzegovina, participate in international meetings – Proposer Slobodan Šaraba; 20. Proposal for appointing members of the People's House to the Interresor Working Group to work on an amendment (act of the BiH Ministry of Justice) - Law on the Ministry and other bodies of the BiH Administration, - Law on the Council of Ministers, - Law on State Service in BiH institutions, - Law on the Audit of BiH institutions, - Law on Administration, - Law on Public Procurement of BiH; 21. Giving consent to the cancellation of the European Convention on the Protection of Archaeological Heritage, adopted in London on 6 May 2009; 22. Giving consent to the ratification of the Agreement on the Military Grant between the Council of Ministers of BiH and the Government of the Republic of Turkey, the Implementing Protocol on Financial Assistance between the Ministry of Defence of BiH and the General Staff of the Republic of Turkey and the Logistic Implementation Protocol between the Ministry of Defence of BiH and the General Staff of the Republic of Turkey; 23. Giving consent to the ratification of the Funding Agreement and the project between KfW, Frankfurt in May, Bosnia and Herzegovina and the Federation of Bosnia and Herzegovina and the Public Enterprise of the Croatian Community Elektroprivreda Herceg-Bosnia d.d. Mostar (EPHZHB) for the project Additional measures for the Wind Power Plant Mesihovina; 24. Giving consent to ratification of the European Charter on Regional and Minority Languages – Strasbourg, 5. 11. 1992; 25. Giving consent to ratification of the Agreement between the Council of Ministers of BiH and the Government of the Republic of France on co-operation in the field of internal security; 3 26. Giving consent to the ratification of the loan agreement between Bosnia and Herzegovina and the European Bank for Reconstruction and Development – Central Bosnian Canton Gasification Project; 27. Giving consent to the ratification of the 1992 Protocol on Water and Health with the 1992 Convention on the Protection and Use of Cross-border Waterways and International Lakes; 28. Giving consent to ratification of the Treaty between Bosnia and Herzegovina and the Holy See on the custody of Catholic believers, members of Bosnia and Herzegovina's Armed Forces; 29. Giving consent to the ratification of the Loan Agreement between Bosnia and Herzegovina and the International Bank for Reconstruction and Development – A Wastewater Project in Sarajevo; 30. Giving consent to the ratification of the Agreement on the loan and project of KfW, Frankfurt in May, Bosnia and Herzegovina and the Federation of Bosnia and Herzegovina and the Public Enterprise of the Croatian Community Elektroprivred Herceg-Bosnia d.d. Mostar for the project Wind Power Plant Mesihovina. This is a harmonised agenda for the House of Peoples Colleges. Is anyone answering their word? Any suggestions for a change and a supplement? If no one answers their word, I'll say the agenda has been adopted. Moving to the 1st point of the Ad agenda. 1. Answers to Legislative Questions and Delegative Questions
ParlaMint-BA_2010-06-24-0.u7812	Satisfied.
ParlaMint-BA_2010-06-24-0.u7813	Thank you very much. Delegate Ivo Miro Jović. Here you go. 4 Ivo Miro
ParlaMint-BA_2010-06-24-0.u7814	Thank you very much, Mr. President. I am not satisfied with the answer of these two institutions, because in my question I have mentioned only as an example, and they have focused on this example of me instead of the integrity of the solution problem.
ParlaMint-BA_2010-06-24-0.u7815	Okay, thank you very much. Any new delegate questions? Mr. Slobodan Šaraba.
ParlaMint-BA_2010-06-24-0.u7816	Thank you, Mr. Chairman. So, despite the fact that I do not regularly get answers to the delegate questions I ask, I will ask two questions at this session in the expectation that at the end of this term I will finally get answers to some of the questions I have asked. I refer the first question to Nikola Špirić, the chairman of the Council of Ministers, and Mr Mladen Zirojević, Resoric Minister, who says: 'What are the reasons and why the Council of Ministers is not at a joint session held with the Government of Croatia that raised the issue of dispute settlement between hydropower plants in Trebišica and Croatian electro-privred, whose resolution in the jurisdiction of these authorities that had a joint meeting two days ago and resolved open issues between these two neighbouring countries?' I have to say that I've been asking this question for a very long time, asking, insisting, almost begging the responsible to resolve this issue and to initiate its resolution. I honestly expected this to happen at this joint session that was held a few days ago. Unfortunately, it has been recorded and raised almost all the issues in question, except for this issue. Whether there's some secret deal, whether there's something that's agreed, and what's not for the media and what's not for the public, I'd like to know honestly, because it's a big problem, it's a huge dispute that has a huge financial value. And I finally expect someone to put this on the agenda and start solving this, I'd say, the biggest dispute that exists between these two neighbouring countries. And secondly, I refer my delegate question to the Regulatory Agency for Communications. It is in accordance with Articles 7 and 8. The Communication Act and I ask through this Regulatory Agency that Telekom RS, Network M:tel removes the malfunction on its network and enables citizens who are users of this mobile operator not to illegally take money from them in the area of eastern Herzegovina. So, I ask, "When will Telekom RS, or M:tel, remove the malfunction on the network and stop illegally taking money in this area?" 5 From a few months ago, mobile phone users have to call several times to make contact with another user, so to hear his voice, although the network, or connection was established, after the first call, of course every call that people turn to cost a few fenings, so several times a day, a hundred times a month. And of course those responsible in this company get almost always the answer -- sorry, will be removed, and, of course, accounts always regularly arrive. I expect the Communications Regulatory Agency to react urgently in accordance with Articles 7 and 8. The Communication Act shall take appropriate measures and allow users of this network to use their network uninterruptedly.
ParlaMint-BA_2010-06-24-0.u7817	Thank you very much. Mrs. Majkić answered her word.
ParlaMint-BA_2010-06-24-0.u7818	Dear colleagues, distinguished present, my question has been addressed to the Secretary of Defense. It is known that from May 2007 to June 2008, five M-8, MTB-1, MI-8 and M-17 helicopters were remounted in Ukraine. The contractor was a company from Kiev which, in addition to helicopter repairs for the needs of the Armed Forces, also trained pilots for those helicopter types – four pilots, two airmen and nine mechanics. For those services, the Ministry of Defence paid a multimillion-dollar amount to determine recently that remounted helicopters do not have the quality of the safety flight load. According to the crew of these helicopters, the remounted helicopters would have to carry a freight of 4.5 tons. Now, after the repair was completed, it was found that I could not bear a load greater than 2.5 tonnes. My question is: "Is the implementation of the BiH Armed Forces task being questioned after the repair has been carried out, I mean civilian purposes and peacekeeping missions? Did the Armed Forces get quite unusable helicopters for which large money was paid from the budget of the BiH institutions? And in the end, is the procedure of the Law of Public Procurement respected?" Thank you.
ParlaMint-BA_2010-06-24-0.u7819	Thank you very much. Who's next to the word? Mr. Rančić. Here you go.
ParlaMint-BA_2010-06-24-0.u7820	Dear Chairman, distinguished colleagues and colleagues, representatives of the Council of Ministers, respected guests, I have a question for the BiH Ministry of Foreign Trade and Economic Relations and the Management Board of the Elektroprenos Banja Luka Action Society. The question is, Does the Management Board and the Management Board of the Electroprenos Banja Luka Action Society work in accordance with the law? 6 Reason: According to media information, these bodies do not work, nor do they hold meetings at all. Is the work of this important institution in the area of functioning of the electricity market blocked? I request a full report on the work of this institution and the clarification of the administration and the Management Board. Thank you.
ParlaMint-BA_2010-06-24-0.u7821	Thank you very much. Is anyone else answering for word? If she's not answering her word, then I'm concluding this agenda point. Moving to point two, Ad. 2. The adoption of the entry for the 46th session of the House of Peoples Is anyone answering for a word? If no one answers, we vote on the 46th session. Who Is For? Is there anyone “against ”? "Contained"? There isn't. I understand that we unanimously adopted the Book of the 46th Session of the House of Peoples. Moving to the 3rd point of the agenda: Ad. 3. The request of the BiH Council of Ministers to consider the Proposal for a Law on Amendments and Supplements to the Border Control Act under an emergency procedure, in accordance with Article 122. Rules of Procedure
ParlaMint-BA_2010-06-24-0.u7824	Thank you, Mr. Chairman. 7 So I would like first to make my point and my proposal that this law be considered by an urgent procedure. So I am absolutely against the fact that this law, as defined by all these amendments, is being considered by an emergency procedure, in accordance with Article 122, and I believe that today we should make a decision to consider this law either in a regular procedure or in a reduced procedure. What's the reason? So, the fact is that in the light of this law, it is necessary to make the appropriate changes that are necessary to... liberalise the visa regime and to remove all problems in that direction, and that is what is quite fine and I welcome it. However, the fact is that the amendments and additions to this law have put in place appropriate changes that have absolutely nothing to do with this liberalisation, and I will say what these changes are. These are the changes defined in Article 38 which are required that the Border Commission be converted as a permanent body which I consider absolutely wrong and that I do not think should be done. The border commission was established in 1997, which on several occasions changed its name but remained the same. Of course, the Commission has been paying regularly every month since then, although it rarely works, it has very little to do and some of the members of this commission have been in place for 13 years, they have absolutely not been changed, and there is absolutely no work behind them. I will navest only two members of the commission: Mr Željko Obradović, who has been a member since 1997 and has had some other members since 2003. What is the fact that BiH does not have a border contract with any of the neighbouring countries. So, after 13 years of their work, we didn't get a border contract with any neighboring country. Previously, the Commission for Borders had far greater powers and powers but the adoption of the Borders Act established two Commissions, one is the Commission for Integrated Border Management and the other is the Commission for Borders, which is in the jurisdiction of the Ministry of Civil Affairs. All documentation on the border line with Croatia is almost completely resolved. There are two disputed points. One is Neum and another Court of the Union, but none of these points, of course, are in the jurisdiction of this commission but is in the jurisdiction of politics and they will not solve it. As for the border with Serbia-Montenegro, it is 664km long and, by the way, an agreement has been drafted on the border with Montenegro has not been signed yet. Therefore, the Commission has no jurisdiction either. I personally think, and this is the attitude of a number of people who are professionally involved in these affairs, that this commission should not be a permanent body, that this job should be completed by this temporary body, those jobs that it has and that it should be done with. This is how I believe that in this way, people who have not done their job objectively and responsibly for 13 years will end up with a reward and allow them to continue, of course, as a permanent body that will not have the sound of that temporary, to work or do no work that has not worked for 13 years. That's why I don't think this job should be done this way, that this law should not be passed by emergency procedure. This should also be well considered on our Commission for Defence and Security, of course, and on other bodies and to make the decision that is appropriate, and not on a small door to insert and mix something that absolutely does not need to be mixed. Therefore, it is not disputed to make appropriate amendments concerning the visa regime, but also what should not have been put in place with it, and as far as this commission is concerned, absolutely should not have been found in this bill. So my proposal is that this law is not being considered by an emergency procedure and that we decide to consider it, if nothing else, by a brief procedure with the right to invest amendments and correcting those things that someone, I was convinced, wanted to plant on us, so with these changes, which are not controversial, to insert and do something that should absolutely not be done at this time. 8 Thank you, Chairman.
ParlaMint-BA_2010-06-24-0.u7825	Thank you very much. Is anyone else answering their word? Hazim Rančić. Here you go, Mr. Rančić.
ParlaMint-BA_2010-06-24-0.u7826	/microphone is not enabled/
ParlaMint-BA_2010-06-24-0.u7827	Turn on the microphone.
ParlaMint-BA_2010-06-24-0.u7828	Thank you. So, when it comes to procedure, it is indisputable that I am in favour of passing the law and that another obligation that is before us to meet all the conditions for visa liberalisation is fulfilled. Therefore, in this respect, and by looking at it from that point of view, it is undeniable that this law should be considered in an urgent procedure. These facts that my colleague was telling are in the good part of the truth. Also, there is another questionable matter in the law, which is Article 2 of this Law, which treats Article 38, which is an additional position (6) which is changed and reads, so Article (2) of this Law reads: 'The appearance of border markings and the setting of those marks on the border line will be regulated in the process of concluding international border contracts between BiH and neighbouring states'. A perfectly acceptable norm and in a situation where we have good relations with all our neighbors. However, I ask the question of what the BiH institutions in charge of this matter will do if we have a situation with any of our neighbours that our neighbours voluntarily mark a certain border line, or in certain places, or place border codes. So, we're passing a law, which is not controversial in all normal good relations and it should be like this, and I'm up for it, but when we pass this law, we don't have an answer to the question what if one of our neighbors sets a border code that's not true, which is controversial, what are we going to do then? Having yourself, yeah, tied hands. So we would have to find a solution to this question, even if in a temporary way, even if it is disputed, to negotiate, to negotiate, to go to an international either arbitration or therefore have legal ways to solve such problems. And this provision is set in a way that we, our institutions in charge of this question, simply say -- here, we are powerless. That's what the law says. Thank you.
ParlaMint-BA_2010-06-24-0.u7829	Mrs. Majkić. Here you go.
ParlaMint-BA_2010-06-24-0.u7830	With the expectation that the Director of the Border Police will say a few words about it, however, I suggest that given what we've heard, we don't go to 122, but that we go to 121, it means 9 shortened procedure, and that it is possible, especially this troubled part that is related to the commission, and that we do nothing to disrupt the team in a shortened procedure, because we will still be able to pass this law, so I would ask the Director to say a few words about whether it is a problem for him if such a decision is made.
ParlaMint-BA_2010-06-24-0.u7831	Just a moment, Mr. Dumančić. Is anyone else answering for word? Mr. Ivo Miro Jović, we'll finally give the word to the director. Ivo Miro
ParlaMint-BA_2010-06-24-0.u7832	Thank you very much. Here, reporting for this discussion, I welcome you, Mr. Chairman, and your co-chairs, distinguished colleagues and everyone present today's session. I only answered with one motive. All that we have heard from colleagues must have room to talk, but I would just remind myself: we are in a time-share and we are necessarily up to the 1st thing that is required here, which refers to the freedom of the visa system, should, if we don't do it today, be we going to give answers and send to those who monitor the work of the institutions in BiH, the adoption of these laws, whether they see it through their fingers or not. And my anxiety suggests words that it would be better today to consider this law by a hasty procedure, and as far as it is in a few days, new amendments and additions can be made.
ParlaMint-BA_2010-06-24-0.u7833	Thank you very much. Any of the delegates come forward for a word? If he's not answering, I'd like to ask Director Vinko Dumančić to explain the reasons and answer any questions.
ParlaMint-BA_2010-06-24-0.u7834	Thank you very much. The Honorable President, the Vice President, the Honorable Representatives, my colleagues, I will try shortly before the institution. I was expecting someone here in front of the ministry but I don't see it, but the ministry is proposing this law. But I have no intention of replicating any of these representatives, and I have no right to, but I can give a few facts, which is that I'm also a member of the Borders Committee and integrated border management and I haven't got a single mark yet, and no one's got, you know, I think you should know, I mean, that's what I want you all to know. It means that no marks have been paid, neither to the members of the Commission for Integrated Border Management or to the members of the Borders Committee. Also, just a few facts, Tuesday 28. The border commission has a meeting in Belgrade. It was in Montenegro and, as the distinguished representative of Šaraba said, the agreement has already been prepared, in Belgrade means on Tuesday at 11.00 a.m. we have a meeting, I hope it goes in a positive direction, and 5. 7. in Zagreb. So, commissions work even though they're not paid. I don't want to bid as much as anyone who's a member of this committee, but I'm already here, but I'm going to say something about the law. 10 I would ask you, honourable MPs, to go after the E.R. What am I saying? An error has been made in the earlier Border Control Act that no one from the Ministry of Civil Affairs has been incorporated into this Borders Committee. We're automatically blocked by work, I think you have it in writing, I'm not going to spread the story. Also, as for Honorable Representative Rančić, I think we must go bilaterally when marking the border. It can't go unilaterally and I think it's clear to everyone. So much, I think I've made myself clear.
ParlaMint-BA_2010-06-24-0.u7835	Okay.
ParlaMint-BA_2010-06-24-0.u7836	If there's more, go ahead.
ParlaMint-BA_2010-06-24-0.u7837	Thank you very much. You see, here I see the House of Representatives adopted it, I think it's unanimous. Here, first I put the vote on the procedure, on whether or not we're going to consider the bill as an emergency procedure. Who Is For? With two votes "against", I realize that we have made a decision to consider this law as an emergency procedure. Then, after that, here I am opening a debate on the Proposal for a Law on Amendments and Supplements to the Law on Border Control. Is anyone answering their word now? He's not answering. I'm putting this bill to a vote. Who Is For? With one vote "against", one "abstained", I find that we have passed the Law on Amendments and Supplements to the Law on Border Control. Moving to point four, Ad. 4. Proposal for a Law amending and supplementing the BiH Customs Policy Act (second reading) – Proposer: Council of Ministers of BiH Before I open the debate, I'd like to make some preliminary remarks. Since the Governing Board of the Directorate for Direct Taxation of BiH did not act after the conclusion of the House of Peoples adopted at the 44th meeting of the House of People, held on 9 April 2010, requiring the Governing Board of the BiH Direct Taxation Authority to deliver an opinion to the House of Peoples of the Parliamentary Assembly of BiH on the Proposal for a Law amending and supplementing the Customs 11 Policy Act, the House of the People at the last session delayed its statement on the Bill proposal and decided to send an emergency to deliver an opinion. And after the emergency until today's session, we didn't get an opinion on the draft law amending and supplementing the BiH Customs Policy Act from the Management Board of the Direct Taxation Board. This is a second reading. The second reading discusses amendments and votes on the bill. You have received a report from the Commission on foreign and trade policy, customs, traffic and communication. The Commission adopted the draft law in the proposed text. The House of Representatives passed this law in the proposed text. I give my word to the first deputy chairman of this committee, Dr. Božo Ljubić, if there is any need.
ParlaMint-BA_2010-06-24-0.u7839	I don't.
ParlaMint-BA_2010-06-24-0.u7840	There's nothing, okay. Then I'm opening a debate. Mrs. Majkić answered her word.
ParlaMint-BA_2010-06-24-0.u7841	So, I just want to remind you that I also asked to postpone the plea until a session of the Management Board of the indirect taxation board is held. It was held in the meantime and the Management Board, as the minister informed me immediately afterwards, gave its consent to the law. I don't know why he didn't, because they obviously discussed some more things, so the record that he made didn't unite all that. Anyway, the RS finance minister gave us RS consent to vote in favour of this law. Thank you.
ParlaMint-BA_2010-06-24-0.u7842	Thank you very much. If no one answers their word anymore, I'm putting the bill to the vote. Who Is For? Is there anyone “against ”? With two votes "against", I find that we have adopted the Law on Amendments and Supplements to the BiH Customs Policy Act in the same text as in the House of Representatives. Moving to the 5th item of the agenda: 12 Ad. 5. Proposal for a Law on Amendments and Supplements to the Law on the Financing of Political Parties (second reading) – Proposers: Delegates Dušanka Majkić, Ilija Filipović and Hazim Rančić The second reading discusses amendments and votes on the bill. You have received a report from the Finance and Budget Commission. The Commission adopted the draft law in the proposed text. I give my word to the chairman of this committee, Mrs. Majkić. Here you go, if there's any need.
ParlaMint-BA_2010-06-24-0.u7844	Since there was no amendment to the proposed text of the law, the Commission supported these principles, the text of the law finally, so I suggest that the House do so.
ParlaMint-BA_2010-06-24-0.u7845	I'm opening a debate. If no one answers the question, we're voting on the bill. Who Is For? Is there anyone “against ”? With one vote "against" and two "abstained", I find that the draft law on amendments and amendments to the Law on the financing of political parties has been adopted. Moving to the sixth item of the agenda: Ad. Six. Proposal for a revised Bosnia and Herzegovina strategy for the implementation of Annex VII Dayton Peace Agreement (second reading), Act of the BiH Ministry of Human Rights and Refugees You've received the material that delivered this ministry. You also received a report from the Joint Commission on Human Rights, Rights of the Child, Youth, Immigration, Refugees, Asylum and Ethics. The Joint Commission adopted the proposal for a revised BiH strategy for the implementation of Annex VII. The Dayton Peace Agreement. The House of Representatives adopted the revised BiH strategy for the implementation of Annex VII. The Dayton Peace Agreement. I give my word to the Vice-President of this committee, Mr. Zoran Koprivica. Here you go.
ParlaMint-BA_2010-06-24-0.u7847	Thank you, Mr. Chairman. 13 Well, I don't think there's any need to specifically explain this report by the Joint Commission on Human Rights, the rights of the child, youth, immigration, refugees, asylum and ethics. The report sets out a procedure that has been implemented so far when it comes to the proposal for a revised BiH strategy for the implementation of Annex VII. The Dayton Peace Agreement. The amendment tabled as set out here in the Commission Report: the amendments were submitted by Mr Slobodan Šaraba and one amendment was submitted by Mr Drago Ljubičić. The Commission did not accept the proposed amendments. Here, we are here today to finally consider the text of this strategy. The House of Representatives, as you say, adopted the revised strategy. This is a new procedure. We know that in the past two years, almost two years, this strategy is on the agenda of the Parliamentary Assembly. We have a chance today to reaffirm Mr. Šaraba's renewed amendments and Mr. Drago Ljubičić's amendment. I propose to the House, after the debate, that we consider these amendments, that we make a statement about them and give our position and voice when it comes to the final fate of this strategy. So I don't have any particular additional explanation. The Joint Commission's report mentions everything that has been implemented so far. We also have the Ministry's position, so we are in a position today to finally declare ourselves in the second reading of this strategy.
ParlaMint-BA_2010-06-24-0.u7848	Here we have one amendment that was tabled by delegate Drago Ljubičić, four amendments from the Slobodan Šaraba delegation. We will certainly give our word, and before that, I will give my word to the legislator, the Proposer of the Revised Strategy, if present.
ParlaMint-BA_2010-06-24-0.u7849	It's not.
ParlaMint-BA_2010-06-24-0.u7850	Okay. Here you go. Mr. Šaraba answered first.
ParlaMint-BA_2010-06-24-0.u7851	Thank you, Mr. Chairman. So these are those amendments that were discussed at the commission stage and I'm just going to repeat some things, or point to what's significant. So, the aim of my amendments, these four amendments, is that all the rights set out in the Dayton Peace Agreement, so that, in addition to the right to free return and return of property, refugees and displaced persons can also be compensated, i.e. compensation for assets that cannot be returned to them, and that they have decided to stay in other environments using the right laid down in the Dayton Peace Agreement, which is the right to have a free choice of place of life. So that people who have been destroyed and damaged property who live in new environments can receive compensation for the destroyed and damaged property in the state in which it was in '92. years, because that makes perfect sense. Because all judgments of the courts that were passed 14 after that, and we need to keep that in mind, unless we adopt such a strategy with these amendments, there will be lawsuits in courts where people will seek compensation for the destroyed and damaged property in the state in which it was in '92. A year. Just all judgments, such as the Alijagić verdict, which is well known to us all, made it possible for these individuals to receive compensation for the complete damaged and destroyed property and not just compensation for the house as defined in this strategy. It is also necessary to establish a proposal for measures to improve the lives of displaced persons in the new environments and new places of residence, thus achieving balance and equality since this strategy, which we have ahead of us, has established that the aim is to identify problems and to establish a proposal for measures for the sustainability of the life of returnees, which is absolutely justified and what needs to be accepted, but we also need to take care of those persons living in the new environments. And in the end, I will say that these amendments of mine are in line with the association of the group of displaced persons of returnees, refugees from the RS, who believe that what was proposed without these amendments is purely discrimination against a number of persons. That is why I call upon all of you, my distinguished colleagues and all delegates to support these amendments and thus to fully equalise all the rights set out in the Dayton Peace Agreement, so these three rights, and to fully equalise and fully equalise the persons who call upon them and seek their achievement. Thank you.
ParlaMint-BA_2010-06-24-0.u7852	Thank you very much. Who's next to the word? Nice to Ljubičić you. Here you go.
ParlaMint-BA_2010-06-24-0.u7853	I thank you, Mr. Chairman. Gentlemen of the Kolegijum, colleagues and fellow members of the House, gentlemen of the Council of Ministers, other distinguished guests, I will try not to take up much of your time because what I want to say is well said by Mr. Šaraba about his amendments that he has proposed. The purpose and essence of my amendment is practically similar, not to say the same. But here, let me just take a minute. I am aware of the needs and importance of this document, because it is an extremely sensitive category of BiH residents with a lot of problems, suffering, etc., and there is a need for a document like this where there is a chance that their problems are beginning, so to speak, not to start, but to solve them more quickly, and if we are lucky to wait for their problems to be solved someday. The purpose and essence of my amendment is and is primarily related, I can say, to Chapter III, or point 1.2, in Chapter III, so let me just take a moment. So, in this chapter boldly, so one text is clearly now, otherwise we have and we have been in a situation that this strategy has long been in the process, and one reason is that this part that has finally been found in this strategy: all the competent institutions in BiH will, in order to finally and fully address the issues of refugees and displaced persons and returnees, allow all three rights from Annex VII. The Dayton Peace Agreement, and the right to return, the right to free choice of 15 places of life and the right to compensation according to aneks vii.. The Dayton Peace Agreement. The goal and the basic essence of my amendment is that, in part of this strategy, which refers to exactly one category of refugees and displaced persons in BiH, which are those who have declared themselves to stay, or clearly said they do not want to return to the previous place of life, that only part of this text in this strategy, in this proposal, is explained. Nothing fundamental, in my opinion, would affect this amendment's proposal for this strategy, simply clarifying the part of the text that is in this strategy, and referring to that category. On this committee it is not recognised, here I have renewed that amendment for this session, so here we will see what will be the fate of that amendment in the session. Thank you.
ParlaMint-BA_2010-06-24-0.u7854	Thank you very much. Mr. Božo Rajić answered the question.
ParlaMint-BA_2010-06-24-0.u7855	Thank you, Mr. Chairman. I, of course, read and thought about the amendments submitted by fellow MPs. In any way, some concepts, or elements of the strategy, need to be explained. In this regard, I expect Minister Halilović, before we speak about the amendments and the proposal for the strategy itself, to clarify some of the issues I need to hear the explanation, may have colleagues and other explanations. The first thing I am interested in: in which way this strategy truly treats the 2010-2014 issue where it is spoken and determined the time in which the primary return should be made, I do not know whether it is considered the final year or whether it is considered the year in which the main return should be completed to remain then just some... So, if the approach is such that in 2014 is actually the year in which it ends, the mass return, which is thought to have been made most of the obligations, then it is from my point of view, as a member of the people who are the most displaced and least recovered, is an unacceptable category. Second, what is rather vague here, on page 27, in Chapter IV. The compensation for damages, i.e. compensation, is called for by the provisions of the Dayton Agreement, in particular point 7 and it is said that all refugees and displaced persons are entitled to compensation for assets which cannot be returned to them and that the mechanism by which it will be realised is also foreseen. So it is further said that there was a commission before, in accordance with the Dayton Agreement, for the property of these issues, that it has not resolved these issues, that today's commissions that resolve these issues have in no case, because the issue remains practically open, remains completely unclear what that right means. So the definition of this right, even more, in which way this right can be realised, that is, how this right can be denied, because it is necessarily related to the amendments spoken of by Mr. Šaraba. Does this imply the right to compensation that one who does not wish to return to the pre-war address has the right to receive compensation and wherever to settle, whether within BiH or outside BiH? 16 So I think it would be a good idea for the RES to clarify these terms for us. Have there been cases of compensation for lost property, one that can't return, a more precise notion which means he can't return and does it include the will of a displaced person, or an exile who says he doesn't want to come back for these or those reasons without having the right to compensate? And then after that, it would probably be clearer, I would have made it easier to set myself up according to these amendments. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-BA_2010-06-24-0.u7856	Thank you very much. Mr. Hazim Rančić. Here you go.
ParlaMint-BA_2010-06-24-0.u7857	Thank you very much. So, we know, I'll remind you that we once considered this strategy, asked for certain changes and additions, and I think in the appropriate procedure that they were done. They are covered by this strategy and here again in another circle ahead of us is to make a statement about this revised strategy. So I would just like to remind all of us once again that six institutions from the BiH state level, 12 institutions from the Federation of BiH, 10 institutions from the RS, three institutions from the Brcko District government, three public enterprises, three NGOs, so the Alliance of Associations of Refugees, displaced persons and returnees of BiH, the Alliance of Refugees, displaced and returnees of the RS and the Community of Exclusive, Refugee and Displaced Croats in BiH, and 11 international organisations, which is total, if I have gathered well, the number of 48 institutions that contributed to the development of this strategy and they have agreed with all of this contained in this document. I'd like to say the following about the amendments. So I will remind us of the text of individual pages contained in this revised strategy and which answer the question whether or not to accept these amendments. Eksplicite stands on pages 50 and 51, so the last three positions on page 50 are said to have generally accepted OHR interpretation, more specifically the clarification of the meaning of this institute regarding compensation from Annex VII. The Dayton Peace Agreement to compensate for the provisions of Annex VII. refers only to compensation for a housing unit or a home. Not on total property, then. The amount of compensation should be limited to the amount eligible for the provision of minimum housing conditions in accordance with the applicable regulations. Therefore, taking into account the open question of compensation that would be given at the moment, it should only be limited to persons who cannot return and that no activity should be taken that would interfere with the ongoing return process. The same provisions, therefore, are similar on page 51. I'll just read the last paragraph so I don't take up your time: 'In the context of Annex VII. The compensation is not an attempt to achieve overall compensation for all the losses that people have suffered in the war, but only for the priority compensation and for the inability to exercise access to home rights, which 17 is particularly highlighted in the OHR's position." So they have conclusions regarding this section 6.1, 6.2, 6.3, and 6.4, of course I will not read them. I told you who was involved. Everyone had a chance, we agreed on this, it went to the House of Representatives. I call on colleagues to support this strategy, to adopt it, because otherwise it would be contrary to the clarifications in the text of this strategy, to the busy views of all these institutions, and to delay, and even, perhaps, to the adoption of the whole strategy. Because if we were to adopt the amendment here, then it would mean forming a compliance committee with the House of Representatives, until the subsequent vote again, which is to delay the process of adoption of this strategy. Thank you.
ParlaMint-BA_2010-06-24-0.u7858	Thank you very much. Is anyone else answering for word? Mr. Ilija Filipović.
ParlaMint-BA_2010-06-24-0.u7859	Thank you for your word. I welcome all my colleagues and colleagues and all those who follow our work today. I very rarely agree with Mr. Rančić, but here today I would support his thinking that we today's strategy revised, amended, staged for discussion, accept without amendments as the House of Representatives accepted. This document is born very, very long. So those who have had contact with all the procedures of the creation of this strategy that has come into one and another home know how much time has been spent to determine, as Parliament, the strategy of returning displaced and refugees. We are also obliged to think about those who are awaiting implementation or implementation of this strategy. It has been so long since the adoption of this document that all means assurance processes and other conditions necessary for the return of those who are far from their home, who cannot approach their property, cannot approach their home, have no electricity, no water, no roads, no means secured for it, live in refugee camps still thousands, thousands of such citizens, BiH citizens. We have displaced in BiH, so they settled somewhere else, but also in the white world. We're also responsible for that fact. And if it has already come to this stage, with all due respect, I have read carefully the amendments and Mr. Ljubičić and Mr. Šaraba, it is very acceptable for me to say amandman II.. I could talk about another amendment if it were on a scale, raise my hand for it. I think they're good, but that it's possible to act differently and otherwise not touching now, because we're leaving in a new time when, I don't know, we have another maybe two sessions at home, the circus started, the campaign going on, in the ninth month, it's hard to expect that we're going to have a lot of sessions. I ask you, therefore, with respect for my distinguished colleague Ljubičić, this amendment is being referred to, it is practically made in one, I would say so, in book-literary form, it is a bit unconsistent but it is clear what was intended to be broken by this amendment. We won't lose much if we don't accept this amendment. I call on the House to accept this strategy, to reject the amendments and to have this strategy from now on, to start implementing. We were saying it was necessary to pull some kind of credit line, knock on someone's door. The state must be in charge if he seriously thinks 18 to implement this strategy. There were talks of some 500 million KM for this need for the state to enter certain credit arrangements. Let's bring this strategy today and give space to those who are seriously considering this very serious thing because of all those unfortunate people who are waiting for a return, let's start with the implementation of this revised strategy. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-BA_2010-06-24-0.u7860	Thank you very much. Mr. Božo Ljubić.
ParlaMint-BA_2010-06-24-0.u7861	Mr. Chairman, colleagues and fellow MPs, I would therefore like to invite all of us to adopt this strategy today. I just have to admit that this document has made one balance compared to the one that was a year ago and something and it deals with those issues regulated by the Dayton Peace Agreement, namely Annex VII, as regards compensation for destroyed property, especially housing units. As many times as we would read this document, we would always find some dilemmas, some ambiguities, we would have asked questions, so in this context I and these amendments are being treated, but basically I think that at this point we should focus on that population that has the biggest problems and that wants to go back. And in fact, I wouldn't ignore it in any way, to put it that way, the views of people who don't want to come back. However, if we now introduced that category in the same way and put it in the same plane with those people who can't return for any reason and adopt an amendment that would allow or give the right to rebuild the housing units for those displaced persons, then the question would be legitimately asked what to do with those persons outside BiH, what Mr Božo Rajić was talking about, because I think, regardless of the suffering of all those persons, that those who stayed in BiH, and who were just displaced, are still in a better position than those who had to leave BiH. And in that case, the question arises whether to rebuild or build housing where they have now settled. Therefore, I would ask all my colleagues here, regardless of the outcome of the vote on amendments, to adopt this strategy, because in this way we pay attention to that most vulnerable population of our population, and on the other hand, of course, we are bound by other laws. You know that the proposal for a census law, or version adopted on the Commission... at the House of Representatives, is also bound to end the list. And our interest, of course, is that this process, in its principality, ends as soon as possible and by '14. years, and in no way, of course, and there I absolutely agree with my colleague Rajić, we couldn't accept that in '14. For years, he treats as... the end of his return. We can say that this is the target year when it is necessary to make maximum efforts to realise most of the requirements and wishes to return and support through funding, but in no case should the right to return be limited. I support adopting this strategy today, regardless, and I would ask colleagues who have tabled amendments, regardless of the outcome of the vote on them, to support them as well.
ParlaMint-BA_2010-06-24-0.u7862	Branko Zrno's still picking up his word. 19
ParlaMint-BA_2010-06-24-0.u7863	Thank you very much, Mr. Chairman, colleagues and colleagues, ladies and gentlemen. Here, now in the end I'm going to say this. I'm really not going to talk about what I've noted to myself as a grudge or as my view of the proposed strategy and, of course, its shortcomings, because I'm going to find, based on what's been said so far, that we can't simply, not us, but I think no one can make a strategy that someone from some point of view won't object to or perceive a flaw. But the basic thing that's been said here today is next. This strategy is thoroughly designed and it's a good thing we have it and it's the way we have it. Secondly, which is very important, the working body that worked this strategy really covered everything that was both professional and populational or association threatened, also means that population to which this strategy applies. Thirdly, this strategy is the most needed for those who have not been in any law and in any strategy for a decade, those who did not have and probably have no impact on the creation of these strategies. So, to the population... which is very numerous, which is still, unfortunately, not a single right. And that is why I call upon my colleagues, on behalf of the strategy, on behalf of the process which is opened by the adoption of this strategy, to give up the amendment (I think that there will be time, even this, drago, yours can be interpreted more as a conclusion than an amendment) on behalf of, I say, this strategy and instead of the improvement of an entire population, I am also standing on the stand to accept this strategy in the form in which it is accepted in the House of Representatives. That from today on, we actually bring it back to life, that from today on, we let it go into space and time and allow it to take care of those who are really threatened. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-BA_2010-06-24-0.u7864	Thank you very much. Here, now I, if there's no one else, would give my word that I would say a few words about this important question. Ladies and gentlemen, once again, I would like to join all those who have called for us today to adopt this revised strategy the way the House of Representatives has done for, here, the same or similar reasons. Every amendment, no matter how much it improves the text of the strategy or gives answers to some clarifications, means that we are delaying at least one year of adoption of this strategy. You know what the alignment process is, the annual vacations, the elections, the constitution of the government and everything else, and people just can't wait, you know. In my opinion, two of the most important things in BiH from Dayton to this day is our concern to preserve peace and strategic interest in returning. We're 15 years behind on this strategy, you know. If we had adopted it earlier, all things would have gone faster. But here we are now to the very end. For this strategy, as Mr. Rajić or Ljubić said, the question and censuses of the population are also linked, 20 are also related to the issue of constitutional amendments and fill-up in public positions to the results of the census, many of which, most importantly, people are waiting, especially those in collective centres, whose witnesses we have seen in these pictures, especially lately. And when does the return end? Returning and our obligation to worry about our return will be as long as one man wishes to return. He will probably formally, the minister will give us answers to questions, formally ends, if we adopt today, in 2014. But after that, it's our duty. It's an obligation to adopt it today for credit as well. All the budgets of, I don't know, municipalities, cantons, entities, states set aside 70 million a year. That, we all know, is not enough, maltenes for one return municipality, let alone further. The adoption of this strategy gives rise to conditions that we can raise one serious loan of at least 500 million. There are creditors who would do this, and we also have support from certain international financial institutions for these funds. And here, once again and I join all those who call on us today, here with respect and the right of every delegate to make amendments, adopt that text of the strategy as the House of Representatives did. Thank you very much. Here, I would ask if there is any need, since Mr Božo Rajić asked the minister for some clarifications, that the Human Rights Minister should clarify and answer some questions and refer to the amendments, normally.
ParlaMint-BA_2010-06-24-0.u7865	Dear MPs, honored guests, I'm not gonna hold any exposés here, I'm just going to say a few necessary findings. Namely, this revised strategy, here are MPs about it already all that matters, what it contains, what the answer is, etc. I only remind myself that the Return Strategy was adopted in 2002. She was made, so it was done by her. We felt, of course, certain shortcomings, the reductionism in it, which is why it has been approached in such a serious way that some MPs have excellently elaborated, what has been done by whom, what it all implies, etc. So a much wider approach contains in solving these issues. What I especially want to emphasize when it comes to the question, about, I don't know, time etc., of course it has to start from some definition of period, dynamics of work, etc., and that's defined as period 2009. - In 2014. Of course, since we kind of spent 2009 in these discussions, we have a year less. And, of course, it'll probably go a long way with this implementation. However, as far as these concrete amendments are concerned, I can say responsibly that they are all contained in this strategy, that it is only emphasising certain details. Annex VII. The Dayton Peace Agreement mentions a return, an option of freedom of choice of place of residence and compensation for the loss of home, etc., it is an interpretation of OHR. However, this is not the solution we are devoting. We've put these groups of experts to the maximum, and we've elaborated each of these questions. Insisting on the details of one of the questions is a waste of time. This is a revised strategy, so a general character document that only sets out guidance and how to solve it. These issues, which are defined in the amendments, but are practically mostly concentrated on compensation for damages, should be settled by law within six months. We predicted that it would be 21 passed law, therefore, that would determine all matters related to compensation for damages, too, which would regulate an institution that would do so, the damages compensation fund. The scope of those rights in accordance with aneks vii.. The Dayton Peace Agreement, which will contain, will also be declared by MPs. So nothing is prejudged. This is just an introduction to solving these issues. So I would simply, if I were not to take up your time, say that the greatest damage is to those on whose behalf it is said not to adopt this strategy, because as a matter of compensation for the damage has not been resolved. And we have indeed elaborated, as far as possible at this stage of working on the strategy, this document elaborates it. Details, scope, categories, etc., should define the law and this is the next stage of work and Action Plan that has already been offered in a certain way. That's it, thank you.
ParlaMint-BA_2010-06-24-0.u7866	Okay, thank you very much. Mr. Slobodan Šaraba wants to.
ParlaMint-BA_2010-06-24-0.u7867	Thank you, Mr. Chairman. So, I'm surprised what the Honorable Minister says is that what we suggested is contained in this strategy. What's the problem then? Then why don't you put these amendments in? So just leave it in the text. If this is contained, what we have suggested, so just some clarifications or upgrades, leave it in the text and it's all settled. Then why did you say no to this? I don't see any reason, if what you're saying is true, that it's contained in the text. Just what we suggested leave in the text, let it stand, no problem at all. And I have one more thing to tell you, Mr. Minister. So, in official data from your ministry, it says that 45,000 families have applied for their return. So, about 150,000 people want to come back. I'm responsible for saying that's not true. And those who applied, they only signed up because they realized that those who had applied earlier and simulated the return were better off than them, so they came to that too -- let's sign up ourselves. Now that's the essence of these digits of yours, so that's not true. They are true like this, but as far as objectivity is concerned, as far as the reality of the return is concerned, I am absolutely convinced that a quarter of this figure will not return. People will take money like it used to be and stay where it's been. And as for these amendments of ours, here's a deal, put it in the text if there's nothing controversial.
ParlaMint-BA_2010-06-24-0.u7868	Okay, thank you very much. Mr. Mladen Ivanić answered the question. 22
ParlaMint-BA_2010-06-24-0.u7869	Well, I'll do it very briefly. The strategy itself can be like this or something. The point is whether there's gonna be money for her to spend. All this is a big story, if there isn't money, if there isn't a compensation fund, if there's not a fund that's going to provide home-refunding for those who want to get back and compensate for those who want to start life elsewhere, I'm not sure that the sum of 500 million that was mentioned as a possible debt is real and I think it's going to be much less, especially given the real state of the world market in the financial sector is going to be very hard to find that kind of money, especially for those purposes. But here, God Bog it's like that. And secondly, I hope that since the strategy will obviously pass, I have objections to it, but I have no intention of talking about it now. I hope that, as a consequence of all this, the list law will come. Because as much as I remember my time when the strategy went down, that was the reason why you didn't go to the list law. Now, it looks like the strategy is going to pass, and I hope that the list and I will consistently pass the ruling coalition, that I'm making a little joke now, I want a lot of success on both sides of the plan, that both will end up in accordance with some agreement, I forgot what it's called.
ParlaMint-BA_2010-06-24-0.u7870	Thank you, Mr. Ivanić. And he certainly contributed to it while in these three years... he was also part of the ruling coalition, so we'll do it together. If no one answers their word anymore, we'll go to the vote. Nobody's answering, right? We're voting on Mr. Drago Ljubičić's amandman. Who Is For? ... Five is "for". Who Is “against ”? The others are “against. ” The amendment didn't go through. Let's move on. We're voting on Mr. Šaraba's amendments. Again, who's "for"? Can I put this vote on all the amendments at once? Here, you can't, well, one at a time. Okay, we're voting on amandman I.. kao's "for"? ... Two are "for". Who Is “against ”? Who is “abstained ”? This amendment didn't go through either. Here's some service counting what it is. amandman II. Who Is For? Again, two are “for. ” ‘Non’? Seven. "Contained"? 23
ParlaMint-BA_2010-06-24-0.u7871	Well, it wasn't me. Will you do it again? I mean, really fast right now, I can't write. Come again!
ParlaMint-BA_2010-06-24-0.u7872	Okay. Come again, amandman II.. Who Is For? Okay, that's five votes "yes". Who Is “against ”? Who is “abstained ”? Others all “against, ” one“ abstention. ” He didn't make it. amandman II. Who Is For? Third, third, I apologize. Two are "for".
ParlaMint-BA_2010-06-24-0.u7873	Three.
ParlaMint-BA_2010-06-24-0.u7874	Please, come on again, maybe I'll go quickly. Who Is For? Five is "for". Who Is “against ”? The others are “against. ” Amendment IV. The same, who is “for ”? Five. No, I'm sorry. Please excuse me, Slobodana Šaraba, again. Two are "for". ‘Non’? And three “restraints, ” four“ abstentions. ” This amendment didn't go through either. We vote on the proposal for a revised BiH strategy for the implementation of Annex VII. The Dayton Peace Agreement in a second reading. Who Is For? 12. Who Is “against ”? One “against ” and one“ abstention. ” I find that 11 is “for, ” one “against, ” one“ abstention. ” I find that the proposal for a revised strategy for the implementation of Annex VII has been adopted. The Dayton Peace Agreement. We move to the 7th agenda, that's: Ad. Seven. Proposal for a Law amending the Law on Public Procurement of Bosnia and Herzegovina (first reading) – Proposer: House of Representatives 24 This is the first reading of the bill. The 100th is a debate on the necessity and principles on which the draft law is based. You have received the opinion of the Finance and Budget Commission. The Commission has accepted the principles of the bill. I give my word to the chairman of this committee, Mrs. Majkić. Here you go.
ParlaMint-BA_2010-06-24-0.u7876	In fact, the amendment concerns Article 52(6) of the basic law, which in the current version implies: the Office for the Review of Appeal may file a complaint with the competent Court of BiH within 45 days of the date on which the decision was sent to the complainant, i.e., in the event that the case has not been brought before the court within the scheduled time limit, the decision of the Office for the Review of Appeal would be final. The court shall become competent only after the administrative appeal procedure has been completed before the Office of Appeals. This amendment is now being made by this law in Article 6 that is, the only newspaper that the decision on the Office for the Review of Appeals made in the appeal procedure against the decision of the administrative authorities and the procurement procedure is considered to be the final administrative act on the date of adoption. And so, practically everything applies to this Article 52nd position (6) and we suggest that we support this law.
ParlaMint-BA_2010-06-24-0.u7877	Thank you very much. I'm opening a debate. Is anyone answering their word? If no one answers their word, I'm putting the bill to the vote. Who Is For? Unanimity. I don't need to ask who's "against". I find that the proposal for a law amending the Law on Public Procurement of BiH was adopted in the first reading. Moving to the 8th point of the agenda: Ad. 8. Proposal for a Law on Amendments and Supplements to the Law on the conduct of a judicial exam in Bosnia and Herzegovina (first reading) – Proposer: Council of Ministers of BiH This is the first reading of the bill. In accordance with Article 100. The Rules of Procedure shall hold a debate on the necessity and principles on which this bill is based. You have come to the opinion of the Constitutional Commission, which has accepted the principles of this bill. The House of Representatives passed the bill in the first reading. I give my word to the chairman of this committee, Mr. Ivo Miri Jović. Here you go. 25 Ivo Miro
ParlaMint-BA_2010-06-24-0.u7879	: I can only say that I remain in this opinion which is unanimously supported on our commission.
ParlaMint-BA_2010-06-24-0.u7880	Thank you very much. I'm opening a debate. The word is Mrs. Majkić. Here you go.
ParlaMint-BA_2010-06-24-0.u7881	First, I call upon the House not to adopt this law. The arguments why such an attitude are next. The entity's direct jurisdiction is the organisation and work of judicial institutions and is not BiH's jurisdiction. That's the first thing. The other thing is that the Council of Ministers revoted Serbian ministers and he came here before us. And the third thing, in the House of Representatives, he went through the first reading after a consensus and insufficient votes "against" from the RS, and now in the second reading, he is also at an agreement, with a high probability that he will not pass. So the law is unconstitutional, it was not attended by representatives of RS, so the minister of justice said... could not participate in unconstitutional laws. And I'm asking you not to support the unconstitutional laws.
ParlaMint-BA_2010-06-24-0.u7882	Here, I give my word to the bill promoter, Mr. Minister Čolak.
ParlaMint-BA_2010-06-24-0.u7883	Mr. President, esteemed envoys, I really think there is a serious need to amend this law. So, this law exists at the state level, a judicial exam exists at the state level, a strategy for the development of the justice sector was adopted at the state level, not only by the state but also by entities and the Brcko District. It's just, there's a need to get things serious in this area, believe me. Of course, we have stepped seriously into the Bologna process and no one disputes it, we have passed the Framework Law on Higher Education and it is nothing controversial. But it happens to us that we come practically persons to pass a judicial exam that brings diplomas graduate lawyers with 180 so on. credit points, that's what it's called, a three-year study that ends two years ago and comes to you with a judicial exam. We in the current law have a solution to be passed by graduate lawyers. Of course, until now, the graduate lawyers were the ones who had to spend four years in college and who had to have all the exams from which to pass the judicial exam. So this is really an attempt, so no jurisdiction is taken, really, but that this whole process is serious in a way that we have a unique approach, unique rules, that we have 26 judicial examination programs that will be consistent, that we really don't let people who practically spent two years in college come and take a judicial exam. So it's in the interest of all of us, it's really not against anyone. And that's why I think it's necessary for this law to be passed, or amended, because it already exists at national level. So I don't want to argue with the entity's jurisdiction in any case, they have it and they'll still have it, so the judicial exam will still be taken at entity level, but I really don't think that if we want to be a serious society, if we want to have it for the judges, lawyers, prosecutors, people who are going to work in the management of professional affairs, those who really pass the judicial exam with limited knowledge, here's the point, and that's why I'm doing this. So I think we'd all be better off if we passed a law like this. I still want to believe that in the House of Representatives in this second reading this law will be passed, the amended law. Because I repeat, it's really in everyone's best interest. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-BA_2010-06-24-0.u7884	Thank you very much, Minister Čolak. Hazim Rančić answered his word.
ParlaMint-BA_2010-06-24-0.u7885	We have this law in first reading, it's about principles. Here's a respected minister said, the Law on taking a judicial exam was passed in 2004, amended in 2008. And here we have these changes now that are ahead of us regarding the regulation of conditions for passing a judicial exam for people who are studying under a reformed system of higher education, so on. The Bologna Process. We have passed the Framework Law on Higher Education, we accept all international and European standards in this area and the lack of this law would mean preventing these young colleagues from taking judicial exams. Of course, there are issues about the nostrification and passing of exams by persons from another country or without citizenship, and about nostrification. So this thing is necessary to us, otherwise we'd be in a position to violate their rights, is it, and we don't need that thing. This is a good thing, we need to pass this law and allow these colleagues to take judicial exams in the future. Thank you.
ParlaMint-BA_2010-06-24-0.u7886	Mr. Branko Zrno. Here you go.
ParlaMint-BA_2010-06-24-0.u7887	I suggest that, in our first reading, we accept this proposal, not the law, but the amendment and addition of the Law on the conduct of a judicial examination for several reasons. And what Dušanka's colleague stated, let's determine if it's a vote, which shouldn't be and whether it's taking over entity jurisdiction as well. But I don't think there's any interference that we'd really be 27 definitely, finally, and once and for all protect the category of those who, with their diploma and their knowledge, deserve to be what they went to school for and finished that school. We've entered a phase of hyperproduction of human beings that are absolutely by no means. When I was at one of the sessions the other day listening to the categorization of academic titles and academic titles and what it all implies, the way everything is interpreted, then I really wonder what we're going to say to our children, whether we should go to school at all. And in the name of what this law, this amendment and supplement will prevent malversion alone, so that today, in our first reading, we can accept the proposed amendments and additions, and we can discuss everything else until the second reading. There's a law when it falls if it needs to fall. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-BA_2010-06-24-0.u7888	Thank you very much. Mrs. Majkić's answering again for a word.
ParlaMint-BA_2010-06-24-0.u7889	Regarding what the minister said earlier, RS representatives participated in the development of a strategy for reforming the justice system, which was also done for the purpose of harmonising with European legislation. And at the same time, so when it was over, the Federation of BiH and the RS had passed the legislation, and the Brcko District doesn't have this law. So, I don't understand how you predicted the Brcko District to do harmonisation if there's no law. I remind you again that we're not doing what's wrong, I don't know what the circumstances were when the law happened, but now I can say - jurisdiction on matters of the organisation of the work of the judiciary is on entities. We know that we have a court and a prosecutor's office which are unconstitutional categories, and we know that they were passed by a high representative, and I only wonder when the Constitutional Commission makes a decision that something constitutional or not, based on which it even raises the issue. This is unconstitutional. How did the Constitutional Commission decide that it was constitutional when it wasn't constitutional? So, first of all, it's not good that the Council of Ministers brought it, so by revote, how is that supposed to go on? In fact, what prevented anyone from consulting anyone in the RS when it comes to this matter if they needed our votes in this regard? Well, I thought so far we're from as many cases as we've learned a lesson, we need voices to get past something. If someone thinks it'll just go a familiar way, then they have to go through with it. I just don't see how it's gonna come out. So, it's unconstitutional matter and don't do it, we can't support it.
ParlaMint-BA_2010-06-24-0.u7890	Mr Ivo Miro Jović. Here you go. Ivo Miro
ParlaMint-BA_2010-06-24-0.u7891	: So I ask myself and you, here we are as the Constitutional Commission in some way called by the Honorable Vice President Majkić, so how could we find a constitutional basis... for the Constitution of BiH for such a law. These are amendments and additions to the law, and twice so far has this same law of amendment and addition and it is in force, this last version of two years, and since the first adoption of this law has been six, seven years. And now the 28 question I was going to ask myself and you are: What are we going to do with the applicable law? We have the law, do we, with this law, are we breaking that law now, if we don't adopt this law or remain this law that we now have and apply? And I have to say that even though it produces consequences, what we do with that law that is now in force, here we are not changing it, here we are going to now, we're all going to vote... the changes and the additions aren't constitutional and we're not going to adopt it. But what did we do with the current law that applies, and what does it produce? We in BiH have a three-way form in higher education at the Faculty of Law and Science. We have a three plus two system, thinking of years, we have four plus one, and we have nothing plus five. And it's all so colorful in the field and someone who finishes the same degree of education, eventually needs to go for five years, someone takes three years to gain, while still studying undergraduately, this one has already become a judge. Regardless of the entity part, I believe that even today, if we are to define that this amendment and supplement is not going to work, that at least some conclusion we can see what we're going to do with a law that is in force or to prevent at least this kind of work in passing the exams for judges. I mean, we're entering an irresponsibility sphere.
ParlaMint-BA_2010-06-24-0.u7892	Thank you very much. Is anyone else answering for word? Mr. Minister Bariša Čolak, please. I apologize, sir wants, first Adem Ibrahimpašić and then. I will give you my word only that Adem Ibrahimpašić has answered before.
ParlaMint-BA_2010-06-24-0.u7893	I'll do it for a while. Thank you, Mr. Chairman. If I understand correctly, Ms. Majkić is not against the solution in the amendment. So, I can... so say that she thinks they're good, but the problem here is who's gonna give up because she's okay. That's how I understood it. If so, my people, let us prevent the damage we have. So I'm being judged by people who, here, the economic dispute doesn't know how to form in what period, he can't make any judgment, he can make a mistake. And we're full of such problems, and we think that the cancer of this system is, after all, not the judiciary, but the kind of judges who don't know what it's about, and they judge us all. I suggest, Mrs. Majkić, that we vote and accept these principles, and that is what they agree on, is that so, in the House of Representatives. If they don't agree with it, there's nothing of this, either way or again, but let's not be scissing something that, I'm sure, and you think it's a good solution. There you go. Thank you.
ParlaMint-BA_2010-06-24-0.u7894	Mr. Čolak. Here you go.
ParlaMint-BA_2010-06-24-0.u7895	Thank you, Mr. President. Oh, here, I need to maybe a little bit more to explain. Namely, I'll start again from this Bologna process that we've accepted. We are simply not able to ensure that people are taking a position that ended in the Bologna process if they don't bring in 29 graduates from a graduate lawyer. We unfortunately did not agree at BiH level the rules of the game in terms of recognition of diplomas, academic titles and expertise and you see... in which we are in problems now. Now are we going to disable the person who finished four years, but who didn't bring the name graduate lawyer, has 240 credit points, and the person who, I repeat, completed a three-year study in two years and brought us a degree in law school to allow us to pass a judicial exam. Well, come on, I mean, we really need to sort these things out in a certain way in this country. So I, if anyone else has been working through all this time and at this mandate, I am going to reach some rules of the game where we're going to balance, where we're going to isharmonize, where we're going to get the conditions for passing a judicial exam equal. I, believe me, Mrs. Majkić, am now speaking to you, was the first to adapt to the state law of the RS. Because when I waited two years for them to agree they didn't want one, another entity, it doesn't matter, I adapted the law to state entity law. You know what I got? After half a year, I got that deadline reduced from two years to a year. So not so forward, I just want to make one step in this, of course, here's a deadline and you'll have a chance, or we'll have a chance to talk about all this stuff. She's right, Mrs. Majkić, when she says, "Why Brcko District?" No Brcko Law District, that's right, you're right. However, it was simple and in the former law so it was and District Brcko, of course, had that possibility, did not establish it, probably will not establish it. And it's no problem that this provision is deleted here through the amendments. So it's probably not going to be. But we just need to get some serious stuff in here and get things in order. What are we gonna do with this law? Here's what Mr. Jović was talking about, watch out, so we already have a play of those who passed the judicial exam, there are those who work in court, in the prosecution, in the attorney's office, what are we going to say. Your diplomas aren't valid?- I'm sorry. And now, at the same time, because of this... disorientation in the field of education, we're going to allow this process, in the process of acknowledging, in the process of passing a judicial exam, simply something that isn't really, not only to honor us all, but we're going to have tomorrow's staff who won't be able to handle the work that's in front of them. I think it's our duty for all of us to see in a certain way how to get out of this and how to actually make... essential shifts in this direction. What is proposed are really small shifts and, I say, it is not directed against anyone, so it will not be touched into entity jurisdiction and people will continue to take exams at entity level as they are doing now. If we don't accept this law, of course, it remains the law that it is, but we have more problems than we have now, here we are because of the Bologna process, so more than we've had so far. Thank you.
ParlaMint-BA_2010-06-24-0.u7896	Okay, thank you very much. Mrs. Majkić wants to do it again.
ParlaMint-BA_2010-06-24-0.u7897	Your Honor, Mr. Minister, I really have no objection to what you said, not a single one. But I have to ask you: Do you really not care to ask the minister of justice 30 RS what he thinks about it, did you not care that at the Council of Ministers all Serbian ministers voted against and that you did not find any argument to convince them that they were wrong and that they should vote for it? Did this moment come here to depend on this? You're too late. So, on several instances, you've had the opportunity to intervene and everything you've just told us here, what I can absolutely agree with, is not this place. What you're doing, you should've done it sooner. It's the only mistake. So I'm not talking about the metrics, I'm talking about the principle of decision-making. Everyone's waiting for it to come to the House, and then the question is solved at this house. And all the other instances that have been and could be solved by then are not exploited. We're gonna have to learn that we need to talk to each other, it's not enough, even though you're 100% right, it's not enough because you see it that way. Here's your colleague, the minister of justice in RS says it's not okay. Now, really, it's gonna be hard for you two to put me in a position to get between you two. I have to listen.
ParlaMint-BA_2010-06-24-0.u7898	Mr. Čolak here wants to answer, here we go, then we have Mr. Božo Ljubić.
ParlaMint-BA_2010-06-24-0.u7899	This is a little unusual, but here's another apology for you. Here's my thanks for everything you said. Believe me, if anyone's trying to do this, this minister is trying. I just told you that I adjusted the law, so I reduced it for two years, I suggested, and it passed for a state-level judicial exam because it was so in the RS. I got an answer very quickly: a reduction in time per year. I wish any of the ministers of the Serb people at the Council of Ministers had told me why he was not satisfied with this law. I'm responsible for this house, I say, no one has told me a single word that something's wrong. Indeed, but no one at all, beware, then I can't know that someone thinks the opposite and when they vote the opposite, but no one, I repeat, hasn't said a word to me. You can get the record from the session, I responsibly claim this. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-BA_2010-06-24-0.u7900	All right, Mr. Božo Ljubić, then Mladen Ivanić.
ParlaMint-BA_2010-06-24-0.u7901	Look, actually, we're here today through this law discussing these things that we could discuss about any law. So, Mrs. Majkić, it is legitimate that you are not satisfied either to challenge the jurisdiction of the state or the competence of the state or the relationship of the competent state and entity. However, your debate today would have been credible if you had so far asked to question the constitutionality of the existing law, you know. If I were to resonate in your way, I'd be against every law here. I don't actually accept that BiH has a Constitution, this isn't the Constitution, this is aneks iv.e, but it's part of the peace agreement, and if I support peace, if I support the government of this country, we're going to ask that Annex to change and get the Constitution and I'm doing it through my political action. And if I were to resonate like this, well, actually, I'm not even here today, or five of us isn't even here, with five of you coming from RS. So, you vote every time both entity and ethnic, and I can't vote either, because the Constitution doesn't allow me, or what we call the Constitution, or aneks iv.e. 31 And in fact,... another thing, I ask you here now as a doctor and as a surgeon: Would you allow yourself to be operated, to have your heart operated on by a person who has completed two years of medicine or more health care? And it's easy for you to get over being judged by a person who's finished some kind of two-year-old, she's been at it for two years. What she's done and what she's learned, that's the question. And it decides on the lives of maybe a lot more people than a surgeon decides at the moment of one man's surgery. I mean, that's, that's things, we're here to discuss one thing, to prevent a measure of political debate.
ParlaMint-BA_2010-06-24-0.u7902	Mr. Mladen Ivanić. Here you go.
ParlaMint-BA_2010-06-24-0.u7903	Let's make fun of each other again, obviously, the coalition needs a little more mutual conversation. Therefore, I intend to allow them to talk more. As far as I'm concerned, I'll be abstentions on this law both in the first and second readings. But I would ask the promoter to give me a list of private colleges that give a degree... a graduate lawyer after three years. I guess I could figure out then whether or not I'm gonna support the law. So I'm interested in private colleges that give a degree a graduate lawyer, because the current solution is in their favor. And please provide me with so I can make a decision.
ParlaMint-BA_2010-06-24-0.u7904	Thank you, Mr. Ivanić. Is anyone else answering for word? If he's not answering for a word, then we could approach the vote, but I'm about to suspect the outcome of the vote, which would mean that this law is falling. I've got to put it to the vote in the end. No one's answering for a word. Who is “for ” this law, the proposal of the law in the first reading? So eight is “for. ” Who Is “against ”? Three are “against. ” "Contained"? Two are “abstained. ” The collapsing of the College. Okay, we'll leave until the next session to try and get along a little bit. Thank you very much. We move to the next item of the agenda, that's the point of the 9th agenda: Ad. Nine. Proposal to amend and supplement the Code of Conduct of MPs and delegates in the Parliamentary Assembly of BiH (first reading) – Proposer: Joint Commission for Human Rights, Rights of the Child, Youth, Immigration, Refugees, Asylum and Ethics 32 This is the first reading of the bill. First there is a debate on the necessity and principles on which the Codex is based. You've been given the opinion of the Joint Commission. The Joint Commission has accepted the principles of the proposed Code of Conduct. The House of Representatives adopted amendments and additions to the Code of Conduct of MPs and delegates in the BiH Parliamentary Assembly. I give my word to the Vice-President of the Joint Commission, Mr Zoran Koprivica. Here you go.
ParlaMint-BA_2010-06-24-0.u7906	Here's a little bit. So, as is known, the Code of Conduct of MPs and delegates in the BiH Parliamentary Assembly was adopted at the end of 2008. The Joint Commission has established a proposal to amend and supplement the Code. They concern two members of the Codex. The first refers to a fine that can be imposed. It is proposed in Article 22 behind the word 'officer' to delete the point and add the words 'or up to 10% of total monthly income'. In addition to the first and 'that a fine of up to 50% may be imposed'. And Article 23. 'that the elected official against whom the application was filed and the applicant of the application referred to in Article (2) may file an appeal to the Joint Commission for Administrative Affairs of the BiH Parliamentary Assembly' (for the measures given by the Joint Commission). It is therefore that the current Code combines the roles of the applicant of the infringement of the Codex provisions in the first-degree procedure, which was the College of both at home, with the role of the bodies to decide in the second-degree procedure. Therefore, in order to ensure the proper legal standards, in particular, these amendments have been tabled and home Rules of Procedure have also been established that the status issues of MPs and delegates, as well as all individual acts regulating salaries and material fees in the jurisdiction of the Joint Commission proposed here as a second-degree body in the process of appeal, may appeal to the first-degree decision of the Commission on Human Rights. So today we are considering the principles of amending and supplementing the Code of Conduct of MPs and delegates in the Parliamentary Assembly. We will have the opportunity to act eventually and amendably in this brief procedure, as we declared at last session of the House. I propose that we accept and make a positive statement on the opinion of the Joint Commission for Human Rights. Thank you.
ParlaMint-BA_2010-06-24-0.u7907	Thank you very much. I'm opening a debate. Mr. Slobodan Šaraba answered his word. Here you go. 33
ParlaMint-BA_2010-06-24-0.u7908	Well, here, so I've voted against the Codex before, and I have to say that I am also absolutely against these amendments and additions and that we gave the Codex this meaning. We consider the Code as legal text. On the other hand, it is a document that has been broken countless times in this three years since we have it here in Parliament. If we did an analysis in the last three of our years, we'd come to the conclusion that a third of the MPs in this House have violated the Codex. Then we ask why we need this document. On one side, it keeps breaking, and on the other, we call on it, and we make changes and additions, and I think this is absolutely unnecessary. Thank you.
ParlaMint-BA_2010-06-24-0.u7909	Mr. Božo Rajić. Here you go.
ParlaMint-BA_2010-06-24-0.u7910	Thank you, Mr. Chairman. I'm just saying, I was the only 57 advocate who voted against the adoption of the Codex, because I find that one unnecessary form of harassment and humiliation of MPs. And I said then and I'll do it again today. Whoever didn't bring the code from the house won't teach it here from anyone. Therefore, these changes and additions are, in my opinion, unproductive and unnecessary work. Because first of all, I don't think that the Code is necessary and there are business and other forms of action that can be put under the bat and observe the behavior of the representatives in both professional and civil terms, and it wasn't necessary to bring some ridiculous norms that some officials brought to us and act like we started living here yesterday. So I'm against these changes and additions, regardless of what the Committee for Human Rights, the rights of the child, etc. stands pompously behind them. And, I agree with my colleague, Šarab, this should not have given this meaning at all that he is coming to equalize himself with the laws and some strategic document. So, I'll be against it as long as I'm in this House, against every code and its amendments, and my colleague Šaraba is right. Look at the suits of the MPs just here, so you'll see how much respect that code is made. Why do we need documents that no one is applying, which will give us laws that don't bind anyone, which will give us this code that we make fun of ourselves who brought it. You should be on the committee, gentlemen, Koprivica, there, to discuss how you apply the Code, and not to propose amendments and enter into the rights of the only committee in the Parliamentary Assembly of BiH whose decisions are final, that is, the Committee for Administrative Affairs, which governs the rights and competences of MPs in the entire state parliament. Therefore, you cannot prescribe any penalties because it is the jurisdiction that this commission may have. But here, they brought it, so I'm obliged to explain why I'm against it. I'm against stupidity, and this is a stupidity procedure. 34
ParlaMint-BA_2010-06-24-0.u7911	Thank you very much. Is anyone else answering for word? If he doesn't answer the question, I'll conclude the debate and we'll vote on the amendment and addition of the Code of Conduct in the first reading. Who Is “For? ” Who Is “against ”? Three are “against. ” Who is “abstained ”? Two “abstained. ” We've got the general majority, and there's the entity, right? I find that the amendment and supplementation of the Code of Conduct of MPs has been adopted. [[Common discussion]] Please, let's vote again. I'm sorry. Here, who's "for"? Three.
ParlaMint-BA_2010-06-24-0.u7913	You have a general majority, right? But the question is whether a federal delegation has a majority.
ParlaMint-BA_2010-06-24-0.u7914	Let's see Ilija Filipović, if he's here to sort it out. Here you go, Mr. Ljubić.
ParlaMint-BA_2010-06-24-0.u7915	Does this apply only to MPs or to people in Parliament at all? So, here, today we have me in the tie, and we have these guests in the shirt.
ParlaMint-BA_2010-06-24-0.u7916	It says "alarms and delegates." Here, I think there's seven of us now, right? Does Mr. Zno support the amendments to the Code?
ParlaMint-BA_2010-06-24-0.u7917	Restraint.
ParlaMint-BA_2010-06-24-0.u7918	There, we also have an entity majority. Here, these changes have passed. We can find out now that they're gone. 35 We move to the 10th point of the agenda: Ad. Ten. Report on the work of the State Regulatory Commission for Electricity in 2009 You have received the Work Report, as well as the Commission's Opinion on Foreign and Trade Policy, Customs, Traffic and Communications. The Commission has adopted the Work Report and is proposing to the House its adoption. The House of Representatives adopted the report. I give my word to the first deputy chairman of this committee, Dr. Božo Ljubić, if there is any need. There's no need. I'm opening a debate. Is anyone answering for a word? If no one answers the word, Mr. Mladen Ivanić. Here you go.
ParlaMint-BA_2010-06-24-0.u7920	This is one of the key institutions for regulating the electricity market within the country. It is an institution that practically manages the power system, i.e. determines the rules for managing the power system in BiH and is an important assumption for the general electricity vault. However, it is my impression that this market has not yet been operational, in particular that there has not been a liberalisation of the rights of people and customers on the market, that still these three electricity industries are practically and products and distribute and determine consumption. And I think that in some future period from the ministry, not from this commission, but from the ministry, which is in charge, we should get one analysis as far as the market's liberalisation has arrived, because all the point was for this market to be liberal, for the market to work, and the market still doesn't seem to work in that context. So, more like some suggestion, no less, no conclusion or anything, but the suggestion that in some perspective, it probably won't come to us, but some new structure of the Assembly, or Parliament, comes to an analysis of the ministry as long as it comes to real liberalisation, what are the effects on consumers, on people, the whole story.
ParlaMint-BA_2010-06-24-0.u7921	Thank you very much. Who's next to the word? If no one is answering for a word anymore, then let's vote on the 2009 report on the work of the State Regulatory Commission for Electricity. Who Is For? Unanimity. I understand the report has been adopted. Moving to the 11th point of the agenda: 36 Ad. 11. Report on work of Bosnia and Herzegovina's 2009 Export and Credit Agency Management Board You've reached the report. The Commission accepted the report. He proposes to the House that he be adopted. The House of Representatives adopted the report. If there's a need for a vice president to say something? Božo Ljubić. There's nothing. I'm opening a debate. Božo Ljubić. Here you go.
ParlaMint-BA_2010-06-24-0.u7923	I have now come forward for the debate because, under my chairmanship, the Commission adopted a unanimous report from the Management Board, although I have asked certain questions about the activities of this agency. I must admit that this is for me, this agency is quite a terra and... therefore a very unknown area and I think for most of you here, perhaps those who deal with business know more about it. But from a brief reading of this report, I was asked a few questions. Obviously, therefore, it is a very important institution that deals with lending, guaranteeing, and here a particular information appears to me quite shockingly. So, I'll quote, on page 3. Paragraph 3: 'Although higher revenues were made than planned, in 2009, we had the cost of paying for two payouts, guarantees for client Panefin Srbac worth EUR 3.5 million and by guarantee for client Alga Brez worth 220 thousand KM, which resulted in a negative financial result. The loss was covered by the accumulated reserves created during the summer period so that there was no reduction in the underlying capital'. So there was no reduction in capital, but a huge loss was made and now the question of the liability and charging of what this agency has paid obviously for a company that has failed to fulfil its obligations under the guarantee it has been issued to it. Furthermore, when we come to, in fact, support of this agency towards companies, then we get to page 14. where says Issue guarantees, new guarantees in 2009. I'll just read some: Energoinvest, Energoinvest, Energoinvest, Energoinvest, Bosnia and Herzegovina, Bosnia and Herzegovina, Bosnia and Herzegovina, Bosnia and Herzegovina, Bosnia and Herzegovina, Bosnia and Herzegovina, Bosnia and Herzegovina, Bosnia and Herzegovina,
ParlaMint-BA_2010-06-24-0.u7924	Which side?
ParlaMint-BA_2010-06-24-0.u7925	14th page, then extension guarantee in 2009: Bosnia Oil Services Company, Bosnia Oil Services Company, UNIS factory, Hidrogradnja, Hidrogradnja, Bosnia Oil Services, Bosnia 37 Oil Services, Bosnia Oil Services, etc. by the end of 26 million KM, so when we get to the factoring, even if I'm just hinting at what the word means, I wouldn't be sure if I were to give the definition right, there's something different distribution, and here we have the company from other parts, so to speak, BiH. Loans, there's a situation completely, so to speak, clearly, even one company mentioned in 10 places, that's page 17. Simply, here's the question for me why are there no more companies in the area here, here to be specific, because I'm at the Croatian House of Peoples Club, from areas that are mostly inhabited by Hrvat? Or there are two reasons, three reasons I can be. First, either all these companies are so liquid that they don't need guarantees, loans, or loans, which would be very good if so, or their applications are discriminated against in approving it, or they just don't know about those services. I doubt, therefore, that there is discrimination in the assessment of applications, so I would rule this thing out, rather than say that perhaps the promotion or representation of the BiH agency itself is not sufficient and that perhaps companies simply do not know about the services it can provide and that it can help them in this export lending business. So here, these are purely for me certain questions as someone who does not have a profession, but I would like to ask that it be taken into account, at the very least, that the economic operators in BiH who deal with exports and have something to do with the fact that they can use these services. And what I'm asked now is a question, so responsibility for these risky guarantees and their billability. What's up with that? Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-BA_2010-06-24-0.u7926	Thank you very much. Is anyone else answering for word? Could there possibly be someone who could possibly answer what Mr. Božo was saying? Here you go.
ParlaMint-BA_2010-06-24-0.u7927	Mr. Chairman, honourable MPs, I am Mirko Dejanović, Deputy Director of the IGA Agency. Although you are here today considering the Management Board's report, the board member is also there, but since it is specific operational issues that are from the management domain, I, if you would allow me to comment briefly.
ParlaMint-BA_2010-06-24-0.u7928	Here you go.
ParlaMint-BA_2010-06-24-0.u7929	For us a very painful issue of this loss this year, I will first of all explain it, and first of all, I would say that in the documents you received you could see that back a few years the IGA agency has achieved extremely good financial results with excess income over expenditure, about a million KM per year or more. Unfortunately, this year we had to pay one guarantee that we gave to the company Panefin from the Serbs, which has fallen into problems caused by two causes. So one is that their market fell out of the furniture domain, meaning 38 wood processing, and the other because of their misunderstanding with their partner from the biomass production program, which is extremely promising and which we actually followed. What I want to point out here is this. We took the collateral, the mortgage means the property of the company, and we launched all the procedure that implies after paying for such a guarantee, so we sued, filed a lawsuit with the Basic Court in Gradisca. The case was transferred to the newly established Court of Commerce in Banja Luka. We were writing an emergency, and the other day we got permission to execute. So that's what we have to do, what we have to do and what we've done, means in terms of all of it, and also in terms of the responsibility Mr. Ljubić mentions, from which no one escapes anyway. How and when we charge ourselves, we'll see, it's right in front of us, but we'll certainly charge ourselves and to a pretty much, let's say, return what cost us. I would like to point out here, you may have said that unknown, the IGA Agency is an Export Credit Agency established by law adopted in this House. And her mandate is to take more risky jobs, meaning those jobs that no commercial banks will cover with their own arrangements. And by being exposed exclusively to exporters, and exporters exposed to their customers abroad, in these conditions of the economic crisis, it is normal to carry with it a very high level of risk and it is normal for something like this to happen, but it is normal to take all the steps to prevent it. As far as our business distribution is concerned, I'd like to say the following. The IGA agency has its activities, I would dare say, extremely well balanced both by entities and by industries. What a number of companies here very often occur, means it is the enterprises of Energovinvest, Hidrogradnja, Bosnia S-Oil, which are enterprises that do more important work abroad and then need guarantees to perform these works and we unfortunately do not have or have very few such businesses in other parts of BiH. It appeared to us, and it seems to me that the Trebinj Niskogradnja Construction and we had an extraordinary desire to make arrangements with them, too, but our capacities were such that we couldn't meet their needs. They went further and with the commercial bank they found an arrangement to solve their problem. We also gave guarantees to Darling from East Sarajevo, we gave guarantees to one of our most important partners, and also to use the UNIS pipeline factory that is also one of our risky, let's say, risky exposures but that we regularly follow and where, thank Bog, it's going pretty well for now. The fact is we have fewer clients in the territory of Herzegovina but we have them there. It's Barpeh, if I remember correctly, and TT Cable. And that's because there's a very late office in Mostar. We now have an office in Mostar and more, to say the more we are present down there but unfortunately today our financial potentials are not such that we can satisfy demand, as much demand as our companies are. And in order not to owe, just one more thing, to elaborate, I am speaking to Mr. Ljubić and the people who come from that area, but when we started working, the banks in the territory of Herzegovina were extremely well capitalized and interested in our products in the area, believe me, there was no. The banks in the RS and the banks in this part of the Federation were not well-capitalized, had no funds of their own, and they were, that is, offering us arrangements in which we, I say, started working together and thus created some kind of initial portfolio which then continued, so to speak, to continue to exist. 39 I hope that's enough.
ParlaMint-BA_2010-06-24-0.u7930	Thank you very much. If no one is answering for a word anymore, I put to the vote the report on the work of the Export and Credit Agency of BiH. Who Is For? I find that we unanimously adopted the report. Moving to the 12th point of the agenda: Ad. 12. Report on the Protection of Personal Data in Bosnia and Herzegovina You have received a report on the protection of personal data and the report of the Constitutional Legal Commission. The Commission has accepted the report and is proposing to the House its adoption. The House of Representatives adopted the report. I give my word to the chairman of this committee, Ivo Miri Jović, if there is any need. Ivo Miro
ParlaMint-BA_2010-06-24-0.u7932	There's no need.
ParlaMint-BA_2010-06-24-0.u7933	Okay, thank you very much. I'm opening a debate. If no one answers their word, I'll put the report to the vote. Who Is For? With one vote "abstained", I find that the report has been adopted. Moving to the 13th point of the agenda: Ad. 13. 2009 State Investigation and Protection Agency (SIPA) Work Report with Declaration on Certain Questions You have received the Report and the opinion of the Joint Defence and Security Commission. The Joint Commission has accepted the report and is proposing to the House its adoption. The House of Representatives adopted the Work Report. 40 I give my word to the chairman of the Joint Commission, Mr. Branko Zrn.
ParlaMint-BA_2010-06-24-0.u7935	Thank you very much. It's all here in our report. I invite you to accept the 2009 SIPA Report.
ParlaMint-BA_2010-06-24-0.u7936	Thank you very much. I'm opening a debate. Hazim Rančić.
ParlaMint-BA_2010-06-24-0.u7937	Dear colleagues and colleagues, regarding this item of the agenda, I would like to remind you that, after certain problems in this agency, we have started to discuss all important issues within the SIPA, at the end of the 9th month of 2009 and, behold, we have reached half of 2010, and we still do not have, as a House or as a Parliament, a position on these issues and then we have translated this matter into a way to consider the 2009 SIPA Annual Report. Of course, before I look back at certain things, I want to do it again once again, and I have said it several times on the Defence Commission as a competent commission, but also here at the House when we discussed these things, which is that this is an important BiH institution, that there are very complex tasks ahead of it, so they have a particular segment of tasks, that it is necessary BiH, that it is about fighting the most serious forms of criminal acts, preventing them, arresting the perpetrators. And therefore, in that segment, I do not question the need for such an institution and its functioning at BiH level at all. I would also like to say that from this report, and it is detailed there by certain figures, so all the successes this agency has made in 2009, so I am not questioning them, congratulating all the successfully done jobs, but of course attention should be paid to some other segments. So I'm not looking black and white or just saying that there's all the trouble, everything's slow. I don't dispute this agency, it's necessary, and I've seen what results are done numerically in this report, but I've done this introduction because I want to repeat certain things that I've pointed out before. In this agency, of course, therefore, there are very important particular problems that have led us to discuss the situation in this institution, and before the regular, regular discussion of the annual reports, so I will remind only some of the problems, so that I will not take up your esteemed time, and respecting both the other colleagues and their time and any discussion. So, even before, here and now I note that there have been problems in this agency about the deployment of employees, especially certain, prominent, positioning officers in a way that has high rank inside the SIPA. I will remind you of the deployment in the Criminal and Investigation Department that I have claimed in all the discussions, analysing the 41 laws in force on police officers, the Law on the Agency (SIPAs), their internal deployment rules, that this deployment was illegal and it caused huge public interest and certain views of the Polish and there were stories of paralysis etc. It is not the only place that is controversial in that frame within the Agency. So there have been certain suspensions, such as police officer Nebojša Bjeljanin or other places. We know that the High Representative has replaced one, too, a SIPA officer for certain activities, as they have said. There they did not adequately fill very high-experienced personnel spaces. So, there's one of the organizations of the Center for War Crimes, we know from the title what to do, almost three years as head of that organization unit has been emptied. So, the man was retired, sued with them, and they almost three years didn't want to fill that place. Also, the Financial and Research Department, the man went to other jobs and tasks, for a year and a half, didn't fill that place. The assistant director of material and financial affairs also went to other jobs, in a long time series they did not fill these things. We also know from the media the facts and data related to the building, the performance of the works, the possible overrun of the deadlines, is now written there for the conclusion of the annex. Was it all within the time limit, were the instruments of the contract applied? So we don't have that information, we didn't get it, at least I didn't even get it on this committee. The latest amendments and additions to the Agency's Law imposed on the Director that within 60 days of the entry into force of that Act, this was last year, to adopt a Regulation on the organisation and systematisation within the Agency. He unfortunately hasn't done it in many months. And he's a prerequisite for deployment again. So, did he have this organisational unit on him that he deployed, whether or not the man in September, is there going to be a takeover, that these jobs will be carried out in the time between the entry into force of that law until the taking over of the Department for the Protection of Objects and Personalities under the Police Structures Coordination Directorate? These are all issues and problems that have arisen from the adoption of the regulations by the SIPA Director. When you look at the overall staffing (I was talking about some prominent places here, and I think it is necessary for the effective performance of SIPA's affairs in accordance with the law) so when you look at the overall fill-up of the Agency, you will see that it is moving, except for the director's cabinet and I think this is for financial affairs that is at 87% or 92%, large number of departments: criminalistic-researching 73%, financial-operational division 69%, War Crimes Department 66%, Witness Protection Department 66%, 68%, 58% OBL 68%, Special Support Unit 51%. So this by organisational units is how it works, and in total, that percentage is about 67%, 67-68%, compared to the planned number. Why am I saying that? Because once I've made an insight into the total number of objects that they've done in the past year, it's also 68.7%. It is quite logical that from the capacitation, filling of personnel and technical equipment, etc. is related and percentage of completed investigations, applications submitted, etc. So if the fill-up is 68% and the number of cases solved 68%, it is logical to assume that if the fill-up in this agency was 90%, 95%, 98%, in order for the number of cases solved, whether, year after year, it was approximately the number of fill-ups with staff. Of course, this thing can also use something else, one other thing, so that the budget, in terms of wages, costs and everything else, is planned against the number of systematicized people, and that it is spent on the number of people 42 that are filled in by the Agency. So, they plan a budget at a level of 100% by the number of systems, and they spend it on not full 70% of people. So these are all problems, so there's some incorrect data in this report, they don't agree with the total numbers, so here's what we're going to ignore this time. So these are the reasons that don't allow me to say that in the last year this agency worked well, successfully, well-quality and therefore should continue to work. They should certainly continue to work, they are necessary BiH,... their jurisdiction is important, but I draw attention to these problems that were during 2009, are probably being transferred this year, with the desire to fix all these things and make this agency as successful as possible in its work. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-BA_2010-06-24-0.u7938	Okay, thank you very much. Mr. Rančić discussed it a little longer than the Rules of Procedure, so I didn't want to interrupt, but here, I suggest we stick to that time. Come on, who's answering for the word? Mr Ivo Miro Jović. Ivo Miro
ParlaMint-BA_2010-06-24-0.u7939	"I'll just be very brief. I would like all other agencies and institutions in BiH to receive work reports in February, as we have received from this agency. Another thing I'd say is that it looks like the way this agency does it methodologically. And apart from these forms, it's extremely important to us inside what's hidden in the indicators. They can be in different ways, to say, clearer or preferably and possibly hidden. However, when you look from page one to page two, you have one of your sequences and persistent logic that there was no opportunity to do anything here and that is not true and that it is not with the upward path of the work result. It is also necessary to link what the esteemed colleague Rančić said, the number of employees and positioning in the structure of the management posts when it comes to financial resources. I am deeply convinced from the time of obtaining my own space and the expensive payment of rent expenses that in this agency and there will be opportunities for greater engagement of people and certainly that part and segment that are here several times, because on this commission and at other occasions when the debate on the work of SIPA is, then it is said that there is a small number of people who seem to be both staffing and preparing people and through this segment that in as short a time and as necessary they can engage. All in all, I would say that work in this institution, and we have had opportunities both on behalf of our commission and visit this institution, I think it is co-operation between Parliament and SIPA, especially this high-level commission.
ParlaMint-BA_2010-06-24-0.u7940	Thank you very much. Is anyone else answering for word? 43 If he did not report, then they would have put in a report on the work of the State Agency for Investigations and Protection to vote. Who Is For? Who, just a little bit, is “against ”? I'm asking you to repeat the vote. Who Is For? Seven is “for. ” Who Is “against ”? Two “against ” and two“ abstentions. ” Seven, two, two, right?
ParlaMint-BA_2010-06-24-0.u7941	There should be four "for" from the Federation.
ParlaMint-BA_2010-06-24-0.u7942	From the Federation how much? _________(?) [[no microphone turned on]] No, no, but "for" from the Federation? Wasn't Mr. Božo Ljubić when it was voted. All right, let's vote again, please. Who's "for" the report? Eight is "for". Who Is “against ”? Two are “against. ” "Retentions"? Three are “abstained. ” I understand that the report on the work of the State Investigation and Protection Agency (SIPA) has passed. Moving to the 14th point of the agenda: Ad. 14. Report on the work of the Independent Committee as an independent body of BiH police structure for 2009 and Plan of the Independent Committee as an independent body of BiH police structure for 2010
ParlaMint-BA_2010-06-24-0.u7945	On behalf of this committee, I call upon you to act on what is written and to accept this report.
ParlaMint-BA_2010-06-24-0.u7946	Okay, thank you very much. I'm opening a debate. If no one's answering for a word, I'd put this report to the vote. Who Is For? I find this report unanimously adopted. Moving to the 15th point of the agenda: Ad. 15. Security information in Bosnia and Herzegovina in 2009 You have received information on the state of security and the opinion of the Joint Security Commission. The Joint Commission has received information and is proposing to the House the adoption of conclusions. The House of Representatives received information. I give my word to the chairman of the Joint Commission, Mr. Branko Zrn.
ParlaMint-BA_2010-06-24-0.u7948	The Commission has accepted the Security Information on what we have made and some conclusions, and I suggest that, with the adoption of this information, we also accept conclusions that are not directly related to it, but suggest what the following information, and this also applies to the work of this agency, i.e. the Ministry, should contain.
ParlaMint-BA_2010-06-24-0.u7949	Thank you very much. I'm opening a debate. No Niko's answering for a word, and I'm closing the debate. Now, I suggest we get to the bottom of this committee first. When it is “for”.
ParlaMint-BA_2010-06-24-0.u7950	45 [[no microphone turned on]]
ParlaMint-BA_2010-06-24-0.u7951	First information on the state of security. Who Is For? I find that we unanimously adopted the Information. We are now voting on the conclusions of this committee. Who Is For? Also unanimous. I also find that the conclusions have been adopted. Moving to the 16th point of the agenda: Ad. 16. Information on the work of the Bosnia and Herzegovina Prosecutor's Office for 2009 You have received information on the work of the BiH Prosecutor's Office and the opinion of the Constitutional Commission. The Commission has taken note of the Information and the House of Representatives has also done so. I give my word to the chairman of this committee, Ivo Miri Jović, if there is any need.
ParlaMint-BA_2010-06-24-0.u7953	He's out.
ParlaMint-BA_2010-06-24-0.u7954	He's out. I'm opening a debate. If no one answers for a word.
ParlaMint-BA_2010-06-24-0.u7955	/no microphone turned on/
ParlaMint-BA_2010-06-24-0.u7956	Yeah, well, I'm sorry, go ahead. Mrs. Majkić answered her word.
ParlaMint-BA_2010-06-24-0.u7957	I feel like there's no one in the D.A.'s office. _________(?) [[no microphone turned on]] Yes, you do, but there's no D.A. _________(?) 46 [[no microphone turned on]]
ParlaMint-BA_2010-06-24-0.u7961	Okay. Here, I'll give myself my word now, if no one else answers. Ladies and gentlemen, let me tell you the truth, I didn't mean to speak, but Mrs. Majkić's discussion asked me, you know. I think we here in this House when we speak must be responsible for the public word. We must be responsible for what we say, for the qualifications that are brought here. There have been a lot of difficult qualifications here for which maltenes should be listed a number of arguments, procedures should be carried out in order to say something about individuals, when it comes to judges, prosecutors, the institution of the court, when it comes to certain specific cases, etc. You see, here when we talk about specific names, when we talk about specific items, we go over those powers that are ours, and I think that's how we put pressure on the Prosecutor's Office and the Court of BiH. I think it is unserious to say that it is an unconstitutional, illegal court or prosecution, when we already have a Constitutional Court decision which is the only relevant to say whether these laws are in accordance with the Constitution or not. So we, on our part, need to contribute to the work of these institutions, to support and help, to create conditions for the BiH tužilaštvo' Office. And I don't want to look at it like that: how many, I don't know, Srbin, how many Hrvat, how many Bošnjak, how many others were carried out, were accused and, I don't know, convicted. The accused and convicted are either criminals suspected of crimes or war crimes. And I mean, if there's anything we've learned in this time, it's taught me personally that there's no time, that at least these criminals or war criminals have no faith, no nation. They are only who they are, and what the Court says, criminals or criminals, so he was a Bošnjak, was a Hrvat, was a Srbin. I know that many cases have not ended in the BiH Court and have objections from all sides. And in my public and political action, I always plead and demand that responsibility be determined in all cases. At the same time, however, I assume that there are certain objective, possibly subjective problems in the work and this court and the prosecution over the very scope of the cases which they are buried and procedures through... which must be passed. I suppose some of the items were late and delivered, some delivered in '93, '94, '95, came from The Hague, others were delivered later, I don't go in and I don't want to defend, so if there are those cases and there's certainly 48 because of the delay in these cases. But come on, let's not talk here now that the Court of Justice of BiH and the D.A. is an illegal institution, as we say. A man must stand here both in front of himself and the public and present such a qualification that does not stand. The Constitutional Court said they were initiatives for the team to challenge whether something was unconstitutional or not. Only the Constitutional Court can say, neither Sulejman Tihić, nor anyone else here. I'm so that we here, really when it comes to the work of judicial institutions, don't politicize, give support to the work of these institutions, you know. To create conditions that I can do as best as possible, if they need to be given more judges and prosecutors to reduce these backlogs as much as possible. And not to comment on any investigations or judgments, that way we will best contribute to the work of those institutions. I think we should take this report to the knowledge, and that's one formula that belongs to this home that's how it's declared. Thank you very much. Here, Mrs. Majkić wants a replica.
ParlaMint-BA_2010-06-24-0.u7962	I never used to tell anyone: you should have done this or don't do this or do this. Every one of us who comes out for this pay phone has a responsibility for what he says. And perhaps I would speak as much as Mr. Tihić did earlier if my people were to be treated as his. So, if it weren't for 1,400 years for my people and about 40 for members... That's why I have to compare it, it's ugly, but I have to compare it because the numbers themselves say more than that. Secondly, for me, it is an illegal institution... and unconstitutional, because it is not foreseen, because it is imposed by the decision of the High Representative. And if we ever decide on it, it will never be constitutional. So that's our position, the political attitude that I have the right to, as you can say, that everything they do is good. I'd say the same thing if I were you. Why did I list all this? Because there's nothing to be done. I'm looking for and calling from this pay phone to get this procession done. That's what I'm talking about, so all the examples I've set, I've cited because I think it's for the sake of reconciliation of the people who live here. So I'm asking my colleagues, so I never do that, and I'm asking everyone, everyone has a right to their position, and everyone is going to take it out of this pay phone. And does anyone else think it's wrong or, well, we all get in a position when we think the one who talks is wrong.
ParlaMint-BA_2010-06-24-0.u7963	Thank you very much. Mr. Božo Rajić first checked in, then Ivo Miro Jović.
ParlaMint-BA_2010-06-24-0.u7964	Thank you. 49 Behold, it came to me, and when I came to my turn, the chief prosecutor came, and I greet him. You see, I know that this topic, although we are here in the role of those who are receiving knowledge, therefore the report on the work of the Prosecutor's Office is submitted to another BiH institution, we know which and which way, but here, the debate has opened, I am sorry that the chief prosecutor was not present to hear these elements of the debate that were so far, but he will probably be introduced to the prosecutor for this short time, so he will know what it is and who have objected. I know that you could all bid, if we were to bid, or very objectively list a whole series of reasons why we are not completely satisfied with the judicial system as a whole, not only with the prosecution's work but also with the courts. If nothing else, then we'd be unhappy with the dynamics of resolving the issue. However, I will refrain today from such thinking and from such qualifications. Of course we are interested, this is the House of Peoples, so we are interested as representatives of the constituent peoples in BiH to achieve justice, not on the principle of equal measures, equal representation, but to bring about justice by the number and amount of crimes committed by war crimes and other crimes that are being prosecuted under the law. However, I know that it is not possible to achieve this constitutional and otherwise arranged country, I know that those who work in the prosecution, and I do not want to raise, but I just want to tell them that I understand their troubles and that they, with all their efforts and expertise and attempts of maximum objectivity, cannot satisfy our ambitions, our demands. And bids will be in both statistical terms and national, both in the weight of deeds and in the number of years of judgments, there will be speeches about it. But I'm interested in something else, and I'm interested in one startingly unequal position, and I'm speaking again from the position of the constituent peoples. Ms. Majkić said earlier in her debate that the RS MUP has filed so many criminal charges for various crimes, that I am not saying that it does not enter the structure, which clearly says that the protection of citizens living in the RS area or, if you will, the protection of members of a constituent people with regard to the execution of justice protects institutions that have instruments as such, has time, has the technique, has the opportunity to collect information and pass on legitimately to the BiH Prosecutor's Office and to request that it process them and to inform the public accordingly in an appropriate manner. With a good part of the Federation due to its relations and the structure of the bodies inherited and the seats in Sarajevo, there is also a great opportunity to prepare and forward them in a technical sense. So I'm talking about unequal starting positions and trying to determine the truths in some areas of criminal action. And it's part of our reality that we're just... whether or not we're satisfied with what the Prosecutor's Office and the Court of BiH have done, the same starting positions that we can run these processes. So in that sense, I'm going to ask the chief prosecutor to, in phase two, when they're finished and brought to an end to this debate, get some information that I'm personally interested in as a citizen. First, is the request of one entity's MUP, here's another, or Brcko District or some other institutions within the BiH system, the only way to initiate the procedure, except by your own means and your knowledge? What about anonymous reports, what about citizens or groups of citizens, do they have the same right? ... had the same value in estimating, accessing these research problems as it is here when they submit the official institutions of an entity, or Brcko District. 50 The second question, I know that the procedure of each investigation has been closed in a certain way to absolute secrecy, I assume that those involved in investigating criminal offences are, in part, closed to the public, and then imposed on me questions from media events, here are the last two months regarding Mr. Ganić. So, he's not the reason, he's just a reason to ask this, he claims that he knows and those who say that he was innocently arrested and persecuted and that he knows that he was followed, his subject that he was in The Hague court and was returned with a mark, but which he is a), b) or c), that there are no elements for prosecution. Now I'm interested in whether another BiH citizen can directly or through some institutions find out if he was the subject of processing and what status his investigation is in? And a third question. Can any BiH citizen for his own and his own conscience, in order not to now say that there are officials, have just been mentioned some very specific names in the judicial system of prosecutors and judges who are accused, against whom there are criminal charges, so that they will not be in such situations, but can any citizen address the BiH Prosecutor's Office and ask: give me information on whether I am under investigation, that is, how long have you come if there is one? Because it is obvious that in this country some have the opportunity to access the data that has been sent, who is being charged, who will be charged, who will be arrested. Is it the result of a system for such action or is it the result of a leak of information? Because I said, and for a newspaper once, I really admire people who say so bravely: I know it was in The Hague court, that the court has returned and that there are no elements to prosecute. How does he know that, because I said that I can't find out about myself or any of the other members of the Croatian people. Where do people get the information? Here I'd like to ask you to try to clarify these questions here today. Thank you.
ParlaMint-BA_2010-06-24-0.u7965	Thank you very much. Mr Ivo Miro Jović. Ivo Miro
ParlaMint-BA_2010-06-24-0.u7966	Thank you very much, Madam President. I thought we'd be protected in this session because I don't know if we're going to get poison from this kind of air that we're inhaling, so the D.A. doesn't have any business when it comes to us after this meeting. Because I really don't know what a source of this unpleasant and unpleasant smell is, and I have a fear for it. And we were supposed to interrupt the session until we saw what it was about... and the winds of this room,
ParlaMint-BA_2010-06-24-0.u7967	How long? IVO
ParlaMint-BA_2010-06-24-0.u7968	'Cause that's one thing. I answered for the discussion. 51
ParlaMint-BA_2010-06-24-0.u7969	Here's a 10 minute break to see what's going on. [[PAUZA]]
ParlaMint-BA_2010-06-24-0.u7970	We're continuing our work. I give my word to Mr. Ivo Miri Jović. Here you go. Ivo Miro
ParlaMint-BA_2010-06-24-0.u7971	Thank you very much. Before us today we have the agenda item 'Information on the work of the BiH Prosecutor's Office for 2009'. As much as we have different thoughts in our speeches, here is simply a factual state, and this information depicts what should have been shown, which is what the prosecution does and how it does. And when it comes to methodology, I still have to look back at it and say, as I just did for another report, that it was done professionally and how these reports are done. And I answered to say two or three sentences aimed at that point, because I saw here in some way... through the discussion of my predecessors, it seems to me that we who come from the order of the Croatian people can be satisfied with the overall situation when in the unfortunate war they were victims of Croatian nationality. On so many occasions from this place and in this place I spoke behaviour and the Prosecutor's Office, and the Tribunal in The Hague, and we also have corpus delicts by the previous prosecutor Ponte Ponte, who now in the publication, after the expiry of a certain time and the right to talk about cases, said she was forced to delete from the prosecution's file those parts that concerned where the victims were Croatian nationality. And then it's no wonder we don't have a single case in The Hague that a man was convicted of the crimes that were committed and the victims were Hrvat. Similarly, there are the D.A.'s gentlemen here, and two or three years ago, I referred to two or three questions on certain cases and whether they would repeat the practice, which is conditionally inherited from the UN tribunal in The Hague. Because if it should be added, only illustrations do, when a sentence is found in the witness, and he confirms the authenticity of his handwriting, we must not have an official prisoner of civilians, and a secret extreme part of the prisoners of the military should be liquidated, on the question of the judge whose sentence this is - it's my handwriting and I wrote it. The trial is adjourned, and then a lawyer is given to a man so he doesn't become an indictee at that time. Also, unlike what Honorable counterpart Rajić said, where information comes from, I have reliable information like you, Mr. Prosecutors, you have on finished investigative activities when it comes to Nazdol, for others I do not have, where the victims are Hrvat. And for a year and a half, and I don't believe that the issue of court proceedings will be raised, the prosecutor isn't doing anything about the international prosecutor, he's not doing anything about this case and similar cases. I also asked the question of what happens to people who, with the efforts of the agency for the investigation of the work and processing of data in the prosecution and delivery to the Court and the Court of Justice, make a decision and people convicted three by 13 years and here from 1 August 2008 and now at large, and after 13 years they get. 52 Then I ask myself and you the question of what is the position of the prosecution when such cases return to total work. I, here, have answered to say a few sentences and I think there are major problems, we will not solve them at this session but I will raise my hand for; if there is a vote taking note of this information, I don't think we should vote either.
ParlaMint-BA_2010-06-24-0.u7972	Thank you very much. Mr. Ljubičić Drago. Here you go.
ParlaMint-BA_2010-06-24-0.u7973	I thank you, Mr. Chairman. The topic related to the Information on the work of the Prosecutor's Office and I will mention another institution that is closely connected, and not today the subject of the talks, is the work and information on the work of the courts. ..., especially with regard to the processing of war cases and war events in BiH, I think it is an extremely serious topic and an extremely sensitive topic for such a country as BiH because of all the accidents that occurred in this unfortunate war in BiH. And I think this problem really needs very serious and extremely sensitive approaches. For a long time, objections came from the RS with statistical indicators, and we had only one piece of the truth today to hear from Mrs Dušanka Majkić, who is very difficult to dispute. One finding that is present, especially in a large number of people from the RS, to charges and convictions in BiH, means it is about the prosecution and courts, and here Mr Jović also mentioned the Court of Justice in The Hague, a distorted picture of the events in BiH is constantly being sent, and it is about this, I am saying, again, about these unfortunate war events. I have no intention of talking any further about this report, and I don't want to mention and open a debate on any data, indicators in this information, etc., but I can't help but tell my own personal impression about all this. Here, this is the fourth year or third time we get information about this work by the BiH Prosecutor's Office. Unfortunately, he talks every time from information to information, from year to year when we declare this information is the same. She's already become sad for me, not to say anything else about this information. The persevering story and remarks come from one side. Unfortunately, what I'm seeing in this information, I'm going back to these statistical indicators that say that practice continues and the way it works. We don't see any change in these cases. And I'm saying, that's why for me this story from information to information, from year to year is sad and I don't know if it's going to change. I have nothing more to say about this information than this.
ParlaMint-BA_2010-06-24-0.u7974	Thank you very much. 53 As if no one ever answered for a word again. Here, in the meantime, the prosecutor, Milorad Barašin, joined. If he wants to comment or answer any questions, I'd ask him.
ParlaMint-BA_2010-06-24-0.u7975	Dear Chairman, members of the working presidency, distinguished delegates of the House of Peoples, I apologize for not coming to the very beginning when discussing our agenda, but as prosecutor, I have other obligations and for the sake of Sarajevo crowd, I was a few minutes late. However, I heard everything and how this information was discussed regarding the work of the BiH Prosecutor's Office. I would have had a lot to say to you, however, by appreciating the dignity of this home, the people sitting in it and the institution I represent, in short lines I will give you one of my brief statements and try to answer how many questions I am allowed to have and some views. The BiH Prosecutor's Office, I will not speak of the Court, they call BiH an illegal institution. That's not true. The BiH prosecutor's office is a sui generis institution, founded under the law and thus operates and operates throughout BiH's territory. Whether someone is satisfied or dissatisfied with the work of the BiH Prosecutor's Office, it is another issue that can be discussed and discuss where it belongs. The BiH Prosecutor's Office, known when it was founded in 2003, operates in three departments, and the largest stumbling block in the prosecution is the Department of War Crimes and the Special Department of Organized Crime. We're said to be selective in processing certain objects. That's not true. We have priorities and it is impossible, given the number of cases, from establishment to today to solving all the cases that have been formed, which are located in the BiH Prosecutor's Office. The priority of working on the cases was initially determined by The Hague tribunal, and today it is. These are cases of 11 bis which ended before the tužilaštvo's Office and before the Court of BiH. Then 14 items in category 2 and those items end up. Then we work on other items such as the Bosnian Herzegovina public informed via our website or through the public. We are not conducting a selection whether it is a Srbin, Hrvat and Bošnjak. Our suspects, our defendants and ours are both Srbin, and Hrvat, and Bošnjak, and we don't see it that way. Whoever committed the crime, he'll answer for it. Whoever committed organized crime, he will answer, regardless of national and religious background. These are things that don't get old. And there will even be some proposals from us for another type of crime not to become obsolete, as countries in the region have done, such as privatisation and other problems. Yeah, I'm sorry, I'm taking notes. Delegate Majkić called us an illegal institution, which is not true, I explained. Then, interest is the subject of dobrovoljački, Tuzlanska column, subject Dudaković. As a prosecutor, I'm conducting an investigation with my team on this case. The object doesn't stand in the drawer, gentlemen. But it can't be forced, hasty to press charges if you don't have enough evidence. It's not just in this case, it's in all other cases. When the acquittal comes up, we're the target of the attack again, as incompetent, corrupt, and everything else. Did any of you ask if this was the prosecution that did anything, did we file any charges that it was convicted and that it had passed? You know that we are. In five months this year, we have 13 confirmed war crimes charges and hard cases. That's what no one, what's done, will see, is just looking for negativity and certain selectionism when the attack on the BiH Prosecutor's Office is at stake. It doesn't apply to you all. Many 54 are correct, but the incorrectness of me as chief prosecutor cannot be accepted by some delegate and may be found to be the one. Then, the subject of the Tuzla column is mentioned. You know, the public has been informed, what happened to this case: that the investigation has been suspended, that the complaints lodged in this case of evidence, then the witness statement, it's like half of this room, and the main prosecutor decides on the complaint. Can Milorad Barašin, who, in view of his other obligations, read and make a valid and legal decision by appeal in a month and two? It's impossible, because there are other obligations, there are other objects. It's an object of analysis. When it is established whether or not everything has been done in accordance with the law, the main prosecutor's decision will be made, it will be decided by appeal and the public will be notified. All items of interest to MP Majkić, of this silo and others, are at the stage of the investigation and certain checks. She knows well that witnesses are being heard, the damaged are being called, whether at the State Agency for Investigation and Protection, whether in the Prosecutor's Office, but cannot be prosecuted until it is determined that there is enough evidence beyond any reasonable doubt. Well, we're not an Inquisition by desire to press charges and prosecute people and harass people. This is the state. This is the prosecution and the democratic institution, where there must be orders not to carry out the investigation, orders to suspend investigations and indictments and convictions, but not only Milorad and those 37 prosecutors. We've only recently had 37 prosecutors. Afterwards, war crimes cases were not only done by prosecutors of the BiH prosecutor's office. You know very well for a period of less than five years how many charges we've filed, how many persons are being prosecuted. And what happened between the war and 2003? Where are these items, who was working and did he even work on them? We're being transferred to the RS MUP, now I'm going to tell you exactly what number, a report against 7,500 people. These reports, to keep co-operation with colleagues from the RS MUP, I don't want to talk right now. But I am asking myself and you whether a valid and quality application, or a report on a crime committed, is prescribed by some other agencies, concluded in haste at a given political moment, for the sake of a day-long policy and for the media stretching of a person working on those cases. For all these items and all these applications to be processed, that is the problem: 7,500 people reported. Well, we've made a list of cases in BiH. That's what we've been doing for two years. And you know the number of persons suspected of war crimes cases. That means there would be many thousands, and we know that under 8,000 from all nations there are persons suspected of war crimes cases. We get doubles, triples, then five times the same information, and the same reports are delivered at a given time to one prosecutor's office, the second, the third, the fourth, and to us. All of this needs to be collected and done in one place as we do, because it takes triage. Then the words, he said, will Ganić someone else, which the BiH Prosecutor's Office did not. This case, in connection with the dobrovoljački case, is a stumbling block because it is a parallel investigation and a double investigation in BiH, it is an international prosecutor, and an investigation carried out in the Republic of Serbia, where the Special Prosecutor's Office for War Crimes of the Republic of Serbia is working. In BiH, the investigation is known when it opened and in Serbia a few months ago, because they needed it for a certain position and for certain political points and for a certain international community position, which I cannot talk about as chief prosecutor, because I am not an international politician, I am not domestic, but I can only say professionally. We're being transferred that we gave certain information to Mr. Ganić. Well, that '95 class. For years, he walked from the Cantonal Prosecutor's Office to the UN tribunal and got a B-rated rating, and you know what "B" means, that there's not enough evidence, that case 55 needs to be investigated and the case is being investigated. But there's been an investigation of an event that took place, and the crime in that event is not slowed down, it will prove itself. And Milorad, as I'm trying to put in my mouth here, that I said by June of this year that I'm going to press charges, it's not true, it's what the media is fortifying after my stay and the conflicts with my people's representatives at the Amsterdam airport. But these are some other games, it's some other pair of freaks. But I don't allow it because I'm a professional and I'm doing my job, regardless of nationality, because we are all equal in front of the laws of this country regardless of the color, faith and nation. Then, to this question, Mr. Rajić, I think I answered... He said unequal starting positions, the equality of citizens in filing applications and how they move. A law on the BiH criminal proceedings and other criminal laws, a report on the crime committed is filed by state agencies. However, a certain event may also be reported by a citizen if there are already certain reports from police agencies, certain intelligence data. It is formed whether KTA file or KT file, with a known or unknown perpetrator, and this subject is being investigated. We're not hiding anything. Everything with us is recorded in our databases and in our files for every event that occurred during the war period, which happens from our jurisdiction today on BiH territory. Then, you've been anxious about how and how to get this information: has an investigation been opened against you, is there a particular criminal case being conducted? The law on access to information, Article 15, is clear. You address our office with your request, you get information that we can tell you at that point and write. We're transparent in our work. If there's something secret, it doesn't go public, no one can get it. Then, delegate Ljubičić did not want to comment on the report, he believes that in the last five years the report has been the same. The report isn't the same. Last year, the War Crimes Department filed only 15 indictments, and this year by 1.5 he raised 13 people and by the end of the year there will be more of them by the end of the year. As far as this information is concerned, in my view, the work of the BiH Prosecutor's Office is legal and goes in harmony with and tends to a greater number of case resolutions. In line with the State Strategy for War Crimes cases, a list and inventory of all cases were carried out. We have everything under control. At the moment, work on these cases is beginning to work on the cantonal and district prosecutors throughout the BiH territory, but under the control of the BiH Court of Justice. Because for forwarding cases to lower entity, district and cantonal prosecutors, there are certain criteria and we have to respect these criteria. And our position, according to these criteria, is that complex and complex cases are done by the BiH Prosecutor's Office, and less complex cases to work under lower prosecutions and lower courts, but under our control. Thank you.
ParlaMint-BA_2010-06-24-0.u7976	Thank you very much. Here's Mrs. Majkić wants to talk. 56
ParlaMint-BA_2010-06-24-0.u7977	I had no intention, but when an institution calls itself legitimate and comes out for a pay phone in Parliament, and this is how it slaps us, it declares us to some delegates, then, Mr Barašin, we are not some, we are elected here, chosen to protect, each of us, the people to whom it belongs. So, I ask that in future, when you speak from this pay phone, you do it with more respect. The political speeches you've given us here to conduct the media stretching of certain individuals?- I'm sorry. I ask you to schedule a conference or press some, so all you have to say is, but Parliament is not the place to be spoken in this way. I felt terrible that you were actually the message you finally delivered - I think I'm doing a good job, and what you think I don't care. Well, you see, my mission and all the people sitting here is to measure everything and you. You may not like what we say, you may think we're wrong, but to convince us of that seems to be the strength of the argument. Your argument that you still don't have enough evidence for Voluntary to press charges, I'm careful not to say too hard of a word. And the least of the problems would be if only I thought so. We'd finish this job in no time. Your ridiculous and demeaning tone, it hasn't happened in this time since I, six years in Parliament, had never had a case like that. So, I beg you, when you speak and speak here in the future, be correct and fair to all of us.
ParlaMint-BA_2010-06-24-0.u7978	Thank you very much. Here's Mr. Barašin. He probably wants a replica, so then Mr. Božo and Drago.
ParlaMint-BA_2010-06-24-0.u7979	Dear delegates, I'm just going to rephrase the delegate for a moment, Mrs. Majkić. I didn't disrespect anyone here, I didn't mock anyone, I didn't have anyone to justify myself to. I work as professionally as I think and know and can. And about my work scores, someone else is giving grades. What about this rhetoric? I don't want to go into conflict with politicians, only with my fellow defenders when I'm in front of the judge, but I am this way as chief prosecutor challenged that I have to answer. I filed information on the prosecution's work which I think is correct, professional and professional. There's no information hidden, no emphasis. I put out a real state of affairs regarding the work of the BiH Prosecutor's Office. Who doesn't like it, gentlemen, is entitled to another opinion. I allow it, because I'm a man who's a Democrats, but I don't allow any pressure on me and my work, because we're prosecutors professionals and we act that way, and the pressure is getting more and more. And this performance by Mrs. Majkić, I consider myself to be a pressure to press charges. And if anyone thinks they can do it better and do it, the competitions are public, so let them apply and do the prosecution's work and let them see that this bread isn't easy to eat. Thank you. I won't answer my word again. 57
ParlaMint-BA_2010-06-24-0.u7980	Thank you very much. Mr. Božo Ljubić called. Here you go.
ParlaMint-BA_2010-06-24-0.u7981	I thank you, Mr. Chairman. So, we seem to forget here what our role here in Parliament is today. We have come to the conclusion from our commission that this information is being taken into account. And the D.A., we can, of course, be free to express our opinion here and no one can answer for it. However, dispute legality and legitimacy is actually absolutely absurd here. I think the prosecution is as legitimate and legal as any BiH institution, including this home. On the other hand, the D.A.'s office is reporting to a whole other institution and they're going to evaluate, so that's the measure of the matter, which, as far as I know, is the High Court and Prosecutor's Council. And the fact, let's also let the gentlemen of the college, that you yourselves do not dispute the legality or legitimacy of the prosecution, because the very fact that you suggested that we include this point in the agenda. So, you yourself explicitly admit that by your act. And now slow down here, it's actually kind of disabling your own position. And of course, in no way do I want... the work of either the D.A. or the D.A.'s office. Our role, at the very least, as political persons, is to ensure the climate that judges and prosecutors can practice their expertise and independence, so the political climate, to ensure such laws as it was this morning, so before noon, when the amendment and the addition of the Law on taking a judicial examination, to make the prosecution and the courts available to the best personnel, and not to say, semi-taught, as we now seem to have a problem with this new reformed, to say, high education. And that's it. So I don't see any reason why we're running other polemics today, except to take this into knowledge.
ParlaMint-BA_2010-06-24-0.u7982	Thank you. Mr. Drago Ljubičić. Here you go.
ParlaMint-BA_2010-06-24-0.u7983	Thank you. I'm really sorry to hear from you the second time, and I'm sorry we're talking like this and we're communicating at all. But still, I can't keep things quiet. Mr Barašin, no matter how hard you've worked with your discussion and the explanation of your work and the prosecution that you're chairing, I speak for yourself, you haven't convinced me, you haven't convinced me with your story in the correctness of everything you've talked about. You failed with your story to change my position and my findings that I partly just said when it came to the prosecution's work and this information. You failed.
ParlaMint-BA_2010-06-24-0.u7984	Thank you very much. 58 I'm closing the debate because no one's answering for a word anymore. We're voting on information on the prosecution's work. Who is "for" to receive information on the work of the BiH Prosecutor's Office? That's eight, right? Who Is “against ”? Four “against. ” We don't have an entity majority. Conformity procedure.
ParlaMint-BA_2010-06-24-0.u7985	/Common discussion/ [[no microphone turned on]]
ParlaMint-BA_2010-06-24-0.u7986	We're getting the hang of it.
ParlaMint-BA_2010-06-24-0.u7987	/no microphone turned on/
ParlaMint-BA_2010-06-24-0.u7988	We've already heard it, but here's the thing we're voting on...
ParlaMint-BA_2010-06-24-0.u7989	/no microphone turned on/
ParlaMint-BA_2010-06-24-0.u7990	We take knowledge, we don't vote.
ParlaMint-BA_2010-06-24-0.u7991	It's everyone's personal sense of whether he took it or not. [[Common discussion]]
ParlaMint-BA_2010-06-24-0.u7992	Well, you see, we've had similar information and reports so far, we've voted whether we're receiving or not to receive knowledge, etc. That's why I've put it on now, even though this can be discussed and considered whether such situations should be voted on. But so far we've voted that way. We've come to know whether there's any or no entity majority, but good. Branko Zrno and Božo Ljubić. 59
ParlaMint-BA_2010-06-24-0.u7993	I have a matter of business nature for you in college. There's two of you lawyers, and there's one here. Give me a solution to that question once. I think it was unnecessary every time so far to vote on something that is being taken to the knowledge. So wherever we don't make the decision, we don't even have to vote. You guys clear that up first in college, and then we'll know where we are.
ParlaMint-BA_2010-06-24-0.u7994	Branko Zrno. Here you go.
ParlaMint-BA_2010-06-24-0.u7995	The Commission has received, Mr. Chairman, knowledge. You remember, at one of the previous sessions, my colleague Ivanic and I had a discussion about this. I also believe that what we're getting to know is simply in the end we're just finding out. So there's no need to make a statement about whether or not we've come to the knowledge, if we're here. Only if we shut our ears, someone can say I didn't listen, I didn't participate, I didn't hear anything, I saw anything. According to this, I'm exempt from accepting to know. All of us here who have been, have we physically been present throughout this process, so we have, whether we want to or not, heard everything, we have received knowledge, because we are not expressing our position whether we accept it or not to accept this information. If it was a report, then it's another thing. I don't know, really, this one time, and I believe this new Rules of Procedure will solve it.
ParlaMint-BA_2010-06-24-0.u7996	Mr. Ilija Filipović answered the question.
ParlaMint-BA_2010-06-24-0.u7997	Here's a quick one. So we went into an absurd state, into an absurd debate, at one point he took us, I don't know, for an hour we talked here, I haven't measured the time, about this information, participated in the debate almost everyone and, in the end, we don't know what we're going to do now. It's a business hole. We have no Rules of Procedure defined whether or not we vote when we receive something of knowledge. But we have something else regulated. Edited: This is a mandatory item of the agenda. We had to put her on the agenda as a College. If we take it to the knowledge of it, then, according to the Rules of Procedure, we must declare that item on the agenda. She's mandatory. It's past the commission. That's one thing. And the absurd is why? Because we've all been involved in this debate, that we've expressed our views, that we can have our own feelings like this or that. So, inside of me to say, I take this so with a reserve, I'm not very excited; but I can't say that I'm not getting to know something that I've been listening to for an hour here, sitting here. We haven't regulated it in business. We need to repeat the second round if we want to get out of this situation according to our Rules of Procedure. 60
ParlaMint-BA_2010-06-24-0.u7998	Okay, here we are trying to get along. There's no way we can get along. We're going to the second round of voting. Who is “for ” to receive knowledge? Eight, right, as far as I can see. ‘Non’? We've got four. I can tell you that eight delegates have received knowledge, and four have not. Moving to the 17th point of the agenda: Ad. 17. The appointment of five members of the Independent Commission to monitor the conditions of stay in institutions, conduct and respect for human rights of persons subject to criminal sanctions and other measures imposed in the BiH Court of Justice's criminal proceedings, foreign courts for acts provided for by the BiH Criminal Law or an international contract signed by BiH, or another court in accordance with BiH law The temporary commission has sent us a proposal for a single list of five candidates. These are: Mile Lasić, Semiha Borovac, Predrag Crnogorac, Damir Čačković, Milan Škipin. With the proposal for a single list, you've got the biographies of all five candidates. The House of Representatives appointed those candidates. I'm opening a debate. Is anyone answering their word? Božo Rajić answered the question. Here you go.
ParlaMint-BA_2010-06-24-0.u8000	Mr. Chairman, I have to pick up where I left off at the last session when we talked about this agenda point. I asked a question but I didn't get an answer, so I'll ask it again before the plea. Is there a right for a representative in this House to gain insight into the scoreboard of the candidates you propose today to vote in this commission? Because I, without any backup, express absolute mistrust in the objectivity of the score of the candidates who are proposed here. And that is why I, probably my colleague Ljubić, will vote against this proposal because we believe that it is biased by the formation of this commission that has done the score, by a biased score, forced candidates who are not the best. Therefore, I would like to get an answer if possible: Do I have the right before pleading to see how the members of this committee have scored candidates? 61
ParlaMint-BA_2010-06-24-0.u8001	Thank you very much. It's a hive.
ParlaMint-BA_2010-06-24-0.u8002	Thank you, Mr. Chairman. I am in the last session, here I will now repeat this, as a member of the Interim Commission who has carried out the full selection procedure in this committee to follow, the Independent Commission for the Monitoring of Staying Conditions in Institutions, the treatment and respect of the human rights of the person over whom criminal sanctions are being carried out, pursuant to Article 41a) of the Law amending and supplementing the BiH Law on the execution of criminal sanctions on detention and other measures, starting from the very beginning, means from the first session when we made the selection of the management of this Commission, when we adopted the Rules of Procedure on Labour, when we called a public competition for the application of candidates to the end of the entire procedure in terms of the elections, i.e. beating candidates, there are written clues about all the actions that have been carried out. Here again in front of this house, I am responsibly saying that we have fully respected all legal acts, that, in accordance with the laws, in accordance with international rules concerning this area, we have been responsible for the selection procedure and that the candidates, these five candidates who have proposed them, have had the best conditions, that there are lists of points according to all the criteria that have been scored, that we have conducted an interview with all candidates, that we have conducted the procedure for their knowledge of the areas concerned. So, here in the end, I say again and I suggest that this House adopt this report in accordance with its competences. The report is correct, this commission carried out the procedure according to what was our mission. The best candidates are selected. Last time we had an objection, we heard certain remarks from representatives of the Croatian people. I responsibly claim that candidate Lasić Mile had far the best conditions, farthest knowledge in this area, and that's the only reason why we as a commission hit him with so many points, here's 385 as you can see on this list. So here again, just to conclude, the complete procedure was carried out in accordance with the acts implemented in accordance with the laws, from the moment of publication of the ad to the conclusion of the list. I think this is completely over and completed in accordance with the regulations, so in accordance with the House of Representatives' decision, I propose that we also make a decision and adopt this report by the Interim Commission on how you got in writing.
ParlaMint-BA_2010-06-24-0.u8003	Thank you very much, Mr. Koprivica. Božo Ljubić answered.
ParlaMint-BA_2010-06-24-0.u8004	Look, Mr. Koprivic, you're pleading with us here that we believe you on the honorable word, and Mr. Božo Rajić was saying whether he had the right to gain insight about how they opted for individual candidates each of the members of this committee. You didn't explicitly answer that. You said he had it somewhere. I suppose there is. 62 On the other hand, you also have the right to claim that you have here proposed candidates with the most points that you have given them as a commission, or commission, but you have no right to claim that they are the best candidates, because you are the first one not competent to evaluate mir Lasić, because he may be more competent than you, and from me especially because I am not a lawyer at all or from any other member of this committee who is not. But what's this about? This is about one phenomenon that is not an individual case, which takes three years. Whenever any appointment carried behind it by any weight, members of the commission, as far as representatives of the Croatian people are concerned, were from only one party, although the other party, which I chaired, is practically half the legitimacy of the Croatian electoral body. That's what this is about. It's just that here I have the right to doubt that this is about engineering in the formation of a commission. And then beyond that, everything that happens on that committee can't have, to put it that way, my trust that it was done in accordance with objective criteria. You have no right, you have even the possibility of making a mistake on purpose. You have no right to say that the best candidates are appointed. So it's clear to us that we need this institution. Clearly, therefore, it is a complex parliamentary majority to appoint her here, but you cannot convince me that I am voting for.
ParlaMint-BA_2010-06-24-0.u8005	Thank you very much. Is anyone else answering for word?
ParlaMint-BA_2010-06-24-0.u8006	...I just didn't want to mess it up, could I?
ParlaMint-BA_2010-06-24-0.u8007	Okay. Replica, Božo Rajić.
ParlaMint-BA_2010-06-24-0.u8008	And last time, I had to pollute without the need for Mr. Koprivica. He's taking it personally. So, I have nothing against Mr. Koprivica's work as chairman of that committee or member, no matter what role he was in, nor do I question his personal contribution to what I find completely unacceptable. But it is pointless for you to convince us, as Mr. Ljubić said, to give an honorable word. You've been in debt, I will no longer ask the College, who is very wise to ask questions that she does not want to answer, I won't ask you again, you have been obliged to make all the contributions you've been making to the candidates for us to see how the points have been made. And then we'd talk to the argument whether you were objective or not. So maybe what you're saying is a lot better done than you're presenting it to me, but I have the right to get material evidence to see what you've done. And not now, but I insist on that in the future anyway when it comes to so-called. interview, because I know exactly what in this country and every one of our neighboring countries means to interview. It's an elimination procedure for the unscathed. You don't have to convince me. I'm 67 years old and I have 50 years of employment. And don't convince me that you did it by conscience and fair. You've worked to eliminate those you don't want 63 and put in exactly the ones you want. Maybe it's not like that in this case, but it's a principle. That's why there's an interview. So please stop convincing us with any words, give us an argument that will show that you are candidates who are graduate lawyers, two, that you once gave 5 points less or more so that I can evaluate it or maybe you gave 150 points more. Give us the complete material, otherwise I'll treat him as the material that represents the hoax.
ParlaMint-BA_2010-06-24-0.u8009	Thank you very much. Mr Ivo Miro Jović. Here you go. Ivo Miro
ParlaMint-BA_2010-06-24-0.u8010	Thank you very much. I'm just about to start where the esteemed colleague Rajić stopped. He has the right to refer to material, information as he wants. But I don't allow you to doubt my integrity. And this is very incorrect – not to be sent to work, and to criticize people in this way and publicly raise such doubts. It was a long time ago when all the candidates were informed about this same report. Each of them had the right to see if this commission worked properly and according to the Rules of Procedure we adopted. I don't think it's correct, mostly not from this other aspect. I was recently... of this commission, and the chairman of the Election Committee at the Higher Education Agency was Mr. Martin Raguž, I mean Deputy Mr. Ljubić. And how long, I think, we're going to argue here with an incorrect and unfair approach. This is politicizing without need, and the candidate... the one who approached, I would now fall into the other extreme to say that we were extremely competent when the gentleman, whom you are alluding, spoke to, extremely, because he didn't say anything. That's it.
ParlaMint-BA_2010-06-24-0.u8011	Chairman, replica.
ParlaMint-BA_2010-06-24-0.u8012	Mr. Božo Rajić. Here you go.
ParlaMint-BA_2010-06-24-0.u8013	/microphone is not enabled/
ParlaMint-BA_2010-06-24-0.u8014	Just press the microphone. There's a microphone, please. 64
ParlaMint-BA_2010-06-24-0.u8015	...unless in one. I didn't accuse you personally, I accused you of working methods. And now I'm saying I don't believe in him. You're an honest man to me and you've done your job properly when you give me proof that I see it that way. I can take your word for it, but I don't have to and I won't.
ParlaMint-BA_2010-06-24-0.u8016	Okay. Božo Ljubić.
ParlaMint-BA_2010-06-24-0.u8017	So, I mentioned my name, mentioned in the context of each other, so to speak, the contest where my deputy Martin Raguž was. Don't think I wasn't familiar with that. Mr. Raguž was correct with me politically, therefore, as the president of his party discussed it. However, Mr. Jović, but this is now our inside Croatian thing but I will say here in front of everyone, it is no secret, I personally refer to political issues of national interest in a slightly different way than you do. So, I also told Mr. Raguž, his deputy, if the university's headmaster was one of the candidates, the university where I'm a professor, I wouldn't be a credible man if I were against him, no matter how much I disagree with his political views. So it was Mr. Majstorović, which Martin Raguž supported, but he supported it with my consent, because it was a university rector who, if he wasn't competent, wouldn't become a university director; if he could be a university rector, he could also be a member of the commission, etc., etc. But I don't see on the other hand, from other Croatian policies BiH has the same relationship, the same ratio of responsibility and correctness. So much for that. And I wouldn't go in here because we didn't go into any individual ones, we didn't mention any other candidates, I just mentioned Mr. mir Lasić, who is my neighbor, whom I see at least once a week at church on Sunday Mass, whom I greatly appreciate, and I certainly don't think any of you members of this committee are competent enough to assess his competence. But this is about the principle, so it is about the principle that any more important appointment is being proposed by members of only one party in front of the Croatian people. So much for that.
ParlaMint-BA_2010-06-24-0.u8018	Thank you very much. Ivo Miro Jović. Here you go. Ivo Miro
ParlaMint-BA_2010-06-24-0.u8019	: Exactly, you have repeated, Mr. Ljubić, everything I have said and the claim is correct. I just said that before this adoption of the report, we had one report in which there was another committee and where the chairman of this committee was from your party. So you can't say, in that part, and we don't have any need at all because those two aren't even connected between this 65 point and what they're trying to say is that some other people decide there. That was my accent. So, we just had, the previous report was the chairman of that committee from your party. The second thing I'm saying is, it means the full three months that the person who approached and applied for this contest had the right to see this and there would be no need for this region.
ParlaMint-BA_2010-06-24-0.u8020	Again, no one has answered me if I have the right to see the materials.
ParlaMint-BA_2010-06-24-0.u8021	Okay, here's the more debate, there's been an opportunity for all of us to give our opinions. We're voting on a proposal for a list. Who's "for" this list? Who Is “against ”? With two votes "against" and one "abstained", I find that we have adopted this list of candidates for members of the Independent Commission. Moving to the 18th point of the agenda: Ad. 18. Appointment of the Executive Director of the Anti-Corruption Prevention Agency and coordination of the fight against corruption Last session of the People's House on the agenda included a point called 'Anointing the Executive Director of the Agency for the Prevention of Corruption and Co-ordination of the fight against Corruption'. Delegate Branko Zrno suggested the adoption of the following conclusion: "The House of the Peoples of the Parliamentary Assembly of BiH tasks Deputy Minister of Security Mije Krešić to perform the duties of the Executive Director of the Anti-Corruption Agency and co-ordination of the fight against corruption until the election of directors under the Anti-Corruption Agency Act. After the debate at the request of delegates Božo Rajić and Božo Ljubić, the House of the People took off the agenda the stated point. The House of Representatives adopted the same conclusion, appointed Mije Krešić as acting director of the Agency for the Prevention of Corruption and Co-ordination of the fight against corruption. I'm opening a debate. Božo Ljubić answered the question. Here you go. 66
ParlaMint-BA_2010-06-24-0.u8023	Since this point is also troubled by our side, by me and Mr. Božo Rajić at the last session, I will just say a few words here. We are aware that this agency is needed and that it is necessary for it to become operational, on the other hand I am also criticising those who were to appoint to today, to say, the permanent administrative structure of that agency, and not to bring all of us into a teat now to appoint a performer under pressure from the EU. However, for the same reasons, because this staff issue is absolutely proposed without any consultation with the representatives here is my party, which again I say, the heritage of almost half the legitimacy of the Croatian electoral body, we today, me and Mr Božo Rajić will not support this appointment, although we are aware that, of course, the majority will be needed for its appointment and do not deny that this agency should be operational and not slow down at this moment in fact the person who has been proposed there in any way, so his competence and everything else.
ParlaMint-BA_2010-06-24-0.u8024	Thank you very much. If no one answers their word anymore, I'm putting this conclusion to the vote. Who Is For? Is there anyone “against ”? There isn't. "Contained"? With three votes "abstained", I find that we have adopted this conclusion. We move to the 19th day's work: Ad. 19. Setting up guidelines for the action of temporary delegations participating in international meetings on behalf of Bosnia and Herzegovina – Proposer: delegate Slobodan Šaraba Before the debate, I'd like to make some preliminary remarks. On 9.4.2010, delegate Slobodan Šaraba sent a request to the House of Nations to discuss that point at the meeting of the House of Peoples. At its 42nd session, held on 28.5.2010, the National College considered this request and decided to forward it to the Commission for Foreign and Trade Policy, Customs, Traffic and Communications as a competent commission. You have received the opinion of the Commission on Foreign and Trade Policy, Customs, Transport and Communications, which suggests that the House adopts the following conclusion: 'By regulating the issue of labour formation and the appearance of temporary delegations of the BiH Parliamentary Assembly in the Rules of Procedures of both homes, delegations are obliged to hold a meeting whenever 67 is required to agree on a common way of action on issues which are on the agenda of the international meeting'. I give my word to the first deputy chairman of this committee, Mr. Dr. Božo Ljubić, if he has any needs.
ParlaMint-BA_2010-06-24-0.u8026	/no microphone turned on/
ParlaMint-BA_2010-06-24-0.u8027	Enough. Thank you. I give my word to the Proposer Slobodan Šarab.
ParlaMint-BA_2010-06-24-0.u8028	/no microphone turned on/
ParlaMint-BA_2010-06-24-0.u8029	There's no need. I'm opening a debate. Mrs. Majkić answered her word.
ParlaMint-BA_2010-06-24-0.u8030	I'm sorry I haven't been to this committee's session because there's been an oversight that could have been a solution, but here's still not too late. So, this committee in its minutes says: 'Until the regulation of the issue of labour formation and the appearance of temporary delegations of the Parliamentary Assembly...' I remind you that this assembly of the Parliamentary Assembly right from 2006, so immediately after we sat here, it adopted a document called the Rules on International Activities of the Parliamentary Assembly of BiH. In this Regulation, Article 10 correctly states that each delegation shall have a head responsible for the work of the delegation and professional and quality preparation of its work and the submission of the report after the visit has been completed. Before attending the meeting, the delegation adopts the thematics for the talks and arranges a joint performance in preparation during the official visit and other meetings, etc. So a lot of things are regulated, maybe not exactly everything, because the question is, would this case that is Mr. Šaraba, which is why all of this was initiated, be at all overlooked? The situation over what was the topic together was not disputed. What was the issue? To say that a delegation, if... not all members vote, cannot sign a document... that is signed by countries that are not recognised by BiH. So, even if we had this neat matter, I don't think that member would be. So I suggest, in order to overcome this situation, to return to this commission and look at this 68th member of the 10th, supplement it if there is anything else we need and then accept the addition of this Regulation on international relations and we will have a solution.
ParlaMint-BA_2010-06-24-0.u8031	Anyone else answer for a word? If no one answers their word, can we vote or not? We have a proposal from the Commission, we have a proposal from Mrs. Majkić. First we should vote on Mrs. Majkić's proposal, right? But here it is, Mr. Hazim Rančić. Here you go.
ParlaMint-BA_2010-06-24-0.u8032	... to adopt the same text as the House of Representatives, he is in this direction, and to adopt what counterpart Majkić says and to give the mandate to the competent authority to further expand, complement the act concerning our international activities. [[no microphone turned on]]
ParlaMint-BA_2010-06-24-0.u8033	Here, as far as I can see, Mrs. Majkić agrees, we adopt both, and this conclusion adopted by the House of Representatives and what Mrs. Majkić has proposed to order the Commission to address this issue. Who Is For? Unanimously, I realize we've adopted both conclusions. Moving to the 20th point of the agenda: Ad. 20. Proposal for appointing members of the People's House to the Interresor Working Group to work on an amendment (the Act of the BiH Ministry of Justice): - Law on the ministries and other bodies of the BiH Administration - Law on the Council of Ministers of BiH - Law on State Service in BiH institutions - Law on the Audit of BiH institutions - Law on Government - Law on Public Procurement The Department of Justice delivered us 8. Six. 2010 Proposal for appointing members of the Interresor Working Group to work on amending those laws. The House of Representatives, on a proposal from the House of Representatives, divided these laws into three groups and appointed Velimir Jukić as a member of the Interresor group to work on amending the Law on the Ministrys and other bodies of the BiH Administration and the Council of Ministers Act; Željko 69 Kuzmanović for amending the Law on State Service in BiH institutions and the Law on Administration; Sadik Bahtić at the amendment of the Law on the revision of BiH institutions and the Law on Public Procurement. The House College proposes Alma Čolo as a member of the Interresor Working Group to work on amending the Law on Ministrys and Other Authorities of the BiH Administration and the Law on the Council of Ministers; Ivo mir Jović at the amendment of the Law on State Service in BiH Institutions and the Law on Administration and Zoran Koprivica to amend the Law on the Audit of BiH Institutions and Public Procurement. I'm opening a debate. Is anyone picking up? Can we vote? Who Is For? Does anyone have “against ”? There isn't. "Contained"? I find that we have adopted and selected these members of the task force. Point 21. Ad. 21. Giving consent to the cancellation of the European Convention on the Protection of Archaeological Heritage, adopted in London 6. 5. 1969.
