ParlaMint-BA_2010-04-07-0.u34112	I am opening my 75th session of the BiH Parliamentary House of Representatives and fellow Members of Parliament. Ladies and gentlemen, at the session, we invited our regular guests: the chairman and members of the Presidency, the chairman and members of the Council of Ministers of BiH, representatives of international organisations and NGOs. I welcome all present MPs and guests, media representatives. According to service information, 30 MPs are present. The absence was justified by honourable MP Vinko Zorić, Šefik Džaferović, Jerko Lijanović, Zlatko Lagumdžija. I find that we have a quorum for full-time work and decision-making for the session. As for today's agenda, I want to meet you, and that's what you've got, I hope, and on your benches, that there's been a change. At the request of the Constitutional Legal Commission, they shall be removed from the earlier proposal point 3. Proposal for a law on deoxyribonucleic acid and point 4. Proposal for a law on the work of institutions, and point 11. A proposal for a BiH holiday law for failing to meet business conditions for that point. Point 21, now this is point 18, we have completed under point f) of the Loan Agreement – Project improving living conditions in the countryside – between BiH and the International Agricultural Development Fund. I'm opening a debate on the proposed agenda. Dear Ambassador Denis Bećirović. Here you go.
ParlaMint-BA_2010-04-07-0.u34113	The esteemed chairman, distinguished guests, in the agenda we received for the 75th session of the House of Representatives as point 11 was foreseen, among other things, a point bearing the name of the BiH Law on Holidays, in a second reading. Five minutes ago, we received a new amended and updated agenda of the House of Representatives, the 75th session, in which these dots are missing. According to the information we received, the argument was that there was no possibility of delivering the amendment after the session of the Constitutional Legal Commission within the deadline. I just want to point out the fact that we were in the same situation a few months ago when the BiH budget was discussed in this parliament and when the SDP MPs' club proposed 22 amendments to BiH's budget, and only because an hour ago, the SDP's Club of MPs 2 was too late to deliver those amendments again, they were not respected at all. And today we have a situation in the same situation to act in this way and to take the BiH holiday bill off the agenda. I think it should be the agenda point today and we should put it in this agenda. Of course, I am aware that most can vote a different solution, but I would like to point out that it is not good to have double arches for the exact same things in this House.
ParlaMint-BA_2010-04-07-0.u34114	Thank you. We were just discussing this issue at the Enlarged College and there were discussions about automatic amendments that were rejected as renewed amendments. However, the majority view was that no practice was established for the report, the commission's report was received on the benches net ahead of the session and that it is not possible to put amendments on such a report. And that this practice would not happen (I understand that there have been concessions once, as is the budget, although it is not the same)... we felt that nothing would happen if this law came to the next House session on the agenda. So, I think the situation is quite clear, that it was the attitude of the enlarged college and that I don't see anyone being denied anything at all. Dear Ambassador Drago Kalabić, discussion. Here you go.
ParlaMint-BA_2010-04-07-0.u34115	Thank you, Mr. Chairman. In line with the position of the SNSD Parliament Club and the function of the Expansive College, we want to stress today that we respect that things are being agreed on at the Expansive College and that it is fulfilling its function for which it exists and for which it is working, and that everything that is businessly possible, we have a way of harmonising all of this, and so on about this point that the esteemed colleague has spoken of. So I just want to announce that the SNSD announced two points yesterday, or two proposals for today's session. One declaration of Turkey's condemnation of the crime of genocide against the Armenian people and one law prohibiting... wearing clothes that hides a face in public places. We agreed on an extended college agreement that it would not want to go into regular procedure, so we didn't sort of deliver it in time, and it doesn't cause any urgency, and we're just going to deliver it in a regular procedure.
ParlaMint-BA_2010-04-07-0.u34116	Thank you. Dear Ambassador Bakir Izetbegović, replica. Here you go.
ParlaMint-BA_2010-04-07-0.u34117	I'm sorry this won't go away, what SNSD is looking for today, to solve so important two problems for BiH. When these ten women in BiH take off the burk, we'll probably all be breathing. And what 3 more did you say: this genocide that happened or didn't happen in Turkey 100 years ago. It's so important for BiH, we have no bigger problems than that. Please hurry up with that.
ParlaMint-BA_2010-04-07-0.u34118	I ask you to hold a debate on what we have on the agenda, and some announcements and no paper will be discussed when it comes to the session. But here's the replica, Reverend Drago Kalabić. Here you go.
ParlaMint-BA_2010-04-07-0.u34119	I thought we shared the same European values. It's about the universal things that we're told here that everything that Europe is asking us to do. I'm talking about European values. I didn't know we were dividing into Balkan and European values. So, I was just talking about it, and I think I'm a couple of times convinced that we should do it. We just suggested something that European countries are looking for, or not what they're looking for, that they've adopted. There are a lot of things here that have passed, and we think they shouldn't have gone through, but they're justified by European principles, and here we were just at that point of view thinking that we should join.
ParlaMint-BA_2010-04-07-0.u34120	I'm asking you, if there's a replica about this, we don't have any material. Let's not discuss anything we don't even know what he's saying. Let's try to talk about the agenda that's currently on the table and whether there's an objection or a grudge on this agenda. Does anyone in the Rules of Procedure have a new agenda to discuss? About what's gonna happen and when it's gonna be, let's leave it when we get the materials on the agenda. Dear Ambassador Denis Bećirović, replica. Here you go.
ParlaMint-BA_2010-04-07-0.u34121	Well, I'd like to remind you that we're in the agenda today under number 17. A motion for a resolution on the importance of condemning genocide in Srebrenica and war crimes in BiH to build lasting peace. That is why I believe that today we will have the strength in this House to first and foremost clear things up in our own country. So, when this thing is over today, so in BiH, when we clearly condemn all war criminals, no matter what nation and religion we belong to, when we clearly show respect to all the victims in this country, I think that we will be able to approach and solve some foreign policy problems, if this small country should solve... these foreign policy issues.
ParlaMint-BA_2010-04-07-0.u34122	Thank you. Dear Ambassador Salko Sokolović, replica. Here you go. 4
ParlaMint-BA_2010-04-07-0.u34123	Thank you, Mr. Chairman. The replica to Mr. Kalabić. So the universal European world values are also human rights. Now, if we're going to discuss this, then we're allowed to do anything under the human rights firm, so, here's when it's our turn, and we're going to discuss whether it's human rights.
ParlaMint-BA_2010-04-07-0.u34124	Thank you. Dear Ambassador Remzija Kadrić, replica. Here you go.
ParlaMint-BA_2010-04-07-0.u34125	The replica is short for Mr. Kalabić. So, in addition to this resolution, I probably didn't hear, but I expect, I don't expect, but I suppose you'll, in addition to this declaration of ban on wearing the appropriate clothes and propose a declaration of banning the construction of moons, because it's also a European trend, and probably we have in one whole all of that – and a ban on wearing clothes and ban on building moons.
ParlaMint-BA_2010-04-07-0.u34126	Okay. No more reports. I'm closing the discussion. I find that the 75th House session has the following 1. Approval of the minutes of the 73rd and 74th meetings of the House of Representatives; 2. Parliament Questions (a) Comments on answers received, (b) New parliamentary issues; 3. Proposal for a law on the protection of geographical indications – Proposer of the Council of Ministers of BiH, Law No 01,02-02-3-1810 of 3. 2. 2010 (second reading); 4. Proposal for a Law on the Protection of Topography of Integrated Cars – Proposer of the Council of Ministers of BiH, Law No 01,02-02-2-1610 of 3. 2. 2010 (second reading); 5. Proposal for a Law on Industrial Design – Proposer of the Council of Ministers of BiH, Law No 01,02-02-2-1510 of 3. 2. 2010 (second reading); 6. Proposal for a Mark Act – Proposer of the Council of Ministers of BiH, Law No 01,02-02- 5-1410 of 3. 2. 2010 (second reading); 7. Pre-law on patent – Proposer of the Council of Ministers of BiH, Law No 01.02- 02-2-1710 of 3. 2. 2010 (second reading); 5 8. Proposal for a law amending and supplementing Bosnia and Herzegovina's election law – MPs Milorad Živković, Niko Lozančić and Šefik Džaferović, Law No 01-02-9-2010 of 10. 2. 2010 (second reading); 9. Proposal for a Law amending the Law on Public Procurement of Bosnia and Herzegovina – Proposer of the Constitutional Commission, Law No 01-02-42110 of 16. 2. 2010 (second reading); 10. Report by the Joint Commission on the achievement of agreement on the identical text of the Bosnia and Herzegovina tobacco law; 11. Commission report to the College on efforts to reach agreement on the draft law amending and supplementing the Law on Customs Policy of Bosnia and Herzegovina – Proposer of the Council of Ministers of BiH, Law No 01,02-02-2-110 of 6. 1. 2010 (second reading); 12. Commission Report to the College on an effort to reach agreement on the Opinion of the Constitutional Legal Commission on Amendments II, III and IV to the Constitution of BiH - Proposed Members of the Party for BiH, Amendment No 01,02-01-1010 of 27. 1. 2010 (alignments in first reading); 13. Report on the work of the Council of Ministers of Bosnia and Herzegovina for 2009 – the material of the Council of Ministers of BiH, No 01,02-50-3-36010 of 22. 2. 2010; 14. Report on the work of Bosnia and Herzegovina's parliamentary military commissioner for October-December 2009, parliamentary military commissioner material, No 01,02-50-3-41110 of 4. 3. 2010; 15. Discussion on the conclusions of the European Union General and External Affairs Council on Bosnia and Herzegovina and Operation ALTHEA (EUFOR), Commission's proposal for external affairs, conclusion with material, No 01,02,0311-05-3910 of 23. 3. 2010; 16. The Commission’s report to the College on the effort to reach agreement on Opinion No 2. Foreign Affairs Commission at the 74th House session, held 24. 3. In 2010, on the debate on the report on the activities of the Council of Europe in 2009; 17. Commission report to the College on an effort to reach agreement on a proposal for the conclusion of the SDP BiH Club MP from the 74th session of the House, held 24. 3. In 2010, on the debate on the motion for a resolution on the importance of condemnation of genocide in Srebrenica and war crimes in Bosnia and Herzegovina for the construction of permanent peace; 18. Giving consent to ratification (a) the Agreement on air traffic between the Council of Ministers of BiH and the Government of the Russian Federation, (b) the Agreement on the Financing and the Project between KfW, Frankfurt on May, and Bosnia and Herecgovina – Collection and Treatment of Waste Waters, Bihać, (c) the Agreement on the Loan between Bosnia and Herzegovina and the European Bank for Reconstruction and Development for the Mahovljanska Loop project, (d) the Agreement between the Council of Ministers of BiH and the Government of Montenegro on the Transport of Travellers and Freight in International Road Transport, (e) the Agreement between Bosnia and Herzegovina and the Republic of India on Mutual Assistance in Criminal Matters, (f) the Agreement between the Council of Ministers of BiH and the Government of the Republic of Croatia – the Republic of Croatia's Republic of Croatia, the Republic of Croatia, the Republic of Croatia, the Republic of Croatia, the Republic of Croatia, the Republic of Croatia, the Republic of Croatia, the Republic of Croatia, the Republic of Croatia, the Republic of Croatia, the Republic of Croatia, the Republic of Croatia, the Republic of Croatia, the Republic of Croatia, the Republic of Croatia, the Republic of Croatia, the Republic of Croatia, the Republic of Croatia, the Republic of the Republic to the Republic of Croatia, the Republic to the Republic to the Republic to the Republic to the Republic to the Republic to the Republic to the Republic to the Republic to the Republic to the Republic to the Republic to the Republic to the Republic to the Republic to the Republic to the Republic to the Republic to the Republic to the Republic to the Republic to the Republic to the Republic to the Republic to the Republic of Croatia, the Republic of the Republic of the Republic of Croatia, the Republic of the Republic of the Republic of the Republic of the Republic of the Republic of the Republic of the Republic of the Republic of the Republic of the Republic to the Republic of the Republic of the Republic of the Republic of the Republic of the Republic of the Republic of the Republic of the Republic of the Republic of the Republic to the Republic to the Republic to the Republic to the Republic of the Republic of the Republic of the Republic of the Republic to the Republic to the Republic to the Republic of the Republic of the Republic of the Republic of the Republic of the Republic of the Republic of the Republic to the Republic of the Republic to the Republic to the Republic to the Republic to the Republic of the Republic of
ParlaMint-BA_2010-04-07-0.u34131	No response comment, however, is on this review. 7
ParlaMint-BA_2010-04-07-0.u34132	Winning?
ParlaMint-BA_2010-04-07-0.u34133	Yes, we've received unaccounted for.
ParlaMint-BA_2010-04-07-0.u34134	So, you got on your request and that review.
ParlaMint-BA_2010-04-07-0.u34135	So, I asked one question a few months ago to ask the Foreign Ministry to deliver to me..., to me and other MPs, a list of holders of diplomatic and official passports and an explanation on which basis the passport was issued. Because according to the information I have there are a lot of passports that have been issued past the law, illegally, and there are a lot of holders of diplomatic passports who shouldn't have it. But until today, I haven't got an answer to that question, and I see, it's interesting that it's not even in this review, so I'm going to repeat that question again today.
ParlaMint-BA_2010-04-07-0.u34136	Thank you. We have several times sent an emergency to the Council of Ministers' address to answer these questions, see if it needs to be restored. Dear Ambassador Sadik Bahtić, comment. Here you go.
ParlaMint-BA_2010-04-07-0.u34137	Thank you. I've got more answers to more questions. I will comment on this only one that I have asked: "Why have two contracts been cancelled with the European Commission and no money has been realised to renovate the border crossings?" I got the answer, I think it's true, I'm satisfied. It is evident that our state institutions have failed, that the funds have failed. There were two border crossings, one 3.6m euros for Brod, and another Gorica 3m euros. Unfortunately, we're all aware that more cases like this are everywhere we've lost huge resources because individuals don't solve their obligations. I believe that all those who work in state institutions should be treated professionally and responsibly and respect everything. Because getting funds for these purposes when we're being smuggled across the border, and not exploiting them, it's a crime for me on the BiH economy. Thank you.
ParlaMint-BA_2010-04-07-0.u34138	Thank you. Dear Ambassador Slavko Matić. Here you go. 8
ParlaMint-BA_2010-04-07-0.u34139	Thank you, Mr. President. Dear colleagues and fellow representatives, honored guests, I would like to thank the BiH Prosecutor's Office for the quick delivery of answers to my question, but the content of this answer shows that neither I nor anyone else, who is interested in determining the truth and in bringing justice to those who committed the murder of General Šantić 15 years ago, cannot be satisfied with what has been done so far. The reply finds that in June 2003, it means 10 years ago, the Prosecution of Unsko-San Canton filed a criminal complaint against three people and that in the court, this all fell due to lack of evidence and it has not been seen that since then, for all these 10 years, anything other than the finding, in this response, that the BiH Prosecutor's Office will continue to work on this case. Is there really an expression here that says that justice is slow but accessible, it seems that only the first part of that definition is true for now. If it's going to be the other part, it's just about to be seen. But it's really inadmissible that something that doesn't look so mysterious, and it shouldn't have been, if it hadn't been solved and resolved by now. I really hope that it will be in some reasonable time and this case resolved to remove suspicions from any person suspected of being affected by what was going on and on about this murder. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-BA_2010-04-07-0.u34140	Thank you. Dear Ambassador Adem Huskić. Here you go.
ParlaMint-BA_2010-04-07-0.u34141	Thank you, Mr. Chairman. Members of the Council of Ministers, respected colleagues, guests, I have asked a question concerning the implementation of amendments to the Law on the Official Messenger. I got an answer that I think is pretty vague, confusing, what the people would say 'round and on the corners'. They say they'll do anything, do anything to enforce the law, but in my opinion, they didn't do anything. And I think that this Parliament or some of its bodies will have to react in some way and monitor how the laws we are implementing here are being implemented. Just to remind you that under these amendments the law is required to publish laws and sublaws on the website and to be free of charge to the public, but this is not done, I don't know for what reasons. Thank you.
ParlaMint-BA_2010-04-07-0.u34142	I hope you got a memo that came to the Kolegijum as well. Dear Ambassador Lazar Prodanović. Here you go. 9
ParlaMint-BA_2010-04-07-0.u34143	Mr. Chairman, I've got an answer to two questions. So, I thank the departments responsible for delivering, but I have an objection to one and the other. The first answer refers to the position of our healthcare professionals who have been engaged through various private agencies in Libya. The foreign ministry has voiced its view that it cannot have a major impact on the way it is hired by private agencies. However, I believe that the BiH State, through the competent Ministry of Civil Affairs and the competent entity ministries, as well as the Agency for Labour and Employment of BiH, should join the signing of a bilateral co-operation agreement between BiH and Libya as soon as possible in terms of the exchange of temporary involvement of health workers from BiH in Libyan health institutions, because the data indicate that the situation is very unpredictable, unfavourable, and that often these health workers do not carry out jobs that are being directed through these agencies or carried out with significantly less resources than is the subject of the contract. The second answer to my question concerns the implementation of projects through the BiH Return Fund. I am pleased with what the Ministry of Human Rights and Refugees has written which projects have been implemented, but I have also asked to be told which municipalities and what kinds of projects have been implemented, what number of houses have been renovated, which infrastructure and what has been done in that sense, and in this sense I ask that the Ministry... through the competent fund this response is specific in line with my question. Thank you.
ParlaMint-BA_2010-04-07-0.u34144	Thank you. Dear Ambassador Velimir Jukić. Here you go.
ParlaMint-BA_2010-04-07-0.u34145	Mr. President, colleagues and colleagues, members of the Council of Ministers, guests, here I will first thank the Council of Ministers this time which was very expedient. So here I am in a full month I've got some answers to my question. My question was addressed to several addresses and I got an answer from most of those addresses. Now, the content of the answer is not quite satisfied, although some of the institutions referred to the question, it was an illegal exploitation of boxite ore in the municipality of Široki Brijeg and Posushje, I expect that the competent institutions that have received this issue will continue to work. And I will single out an institution – the Federation MUP, in my opinion, gave the most correct answer, because they wrote what they did very specifically and what they did. In co-operation with the Western-Herzegovina County MUP, certain investigative and field insights are taking place. I expect that their work as well as the work of other institutions, which have received this question, firstly, will be information for the start of what they should do and do and I expect that there will still be results as a consequence of this issue. Thank you.
ParlaMint-BA_2010-04-07-0.u34146	Dear Ambassador Šemsudin Mehmedović. Here you go. 10
ParlaMint-BA_2010-04-07-0.u34147	Gentlemen Chairman, ladies and gentlemen of the MPs, here, after a little over a year I received an answer to the question asked at the 48th session, held on 18. 3. In 2009. My question was: "When will the harmonisation of the salary accounting coefficients for jobs that, by the degree of complexity, fall into auxiliary technical tasks at the Council of Ministers' level be carried out?" If you remember, we adopted the Law on Payments in BiH institutions in 2008 and, in accordance with Article 25(2) of the Council of Ministers' Payments Act, should have adopted sublegal acts to determine C2, C3, C4 and C5 payment classes. However, it is obvious that there is neither wish nor desire in the Council of Ministers to resolve this issue, i.e. to adopt a sublegal act that could be called the Methodology for the Classification of Middle Professional Places in Class C3, C4 and C5, for the reasons that ministers, according to their opinion, determine who will be included in which pay grade, so the secretaries and drivers of ministers are much better paid than other employees in BiH institutions who have the same professional equipment. Therefore, my question is current today, and here is the Council of Ministers, not until today, has established a methodology even though it has formed a working group that has done that part of the work, and I expect that the Council of Ministers actually in its work for the next few days finally adopts this methodology and that those who are not the drivers of ministers and secretaries are adequate to their professional preparation and abilities financially rewarded, in accordance with the law. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-BA_2010-04-07-0.u34148	Thank you. We've exhausted all reactions to the answers. (b) New parliamentary questions These are registered for new questions. Dear Ambassador Sadik Bahtić. Here you go.
ParlaMint-BA_2010-04-07-0.u34150	Thank you. The parliamentary issue is for the BiH Ministry of Security. I ask the Ministry of Security to answer me, "What is he doing against BiH citizens who represent BiH in the world as a terrorist state, a state that gives refuge to terrorists and imposes a mortgage on BiH terrorism?" In particular, the head of the special purpose and investigation unit of the RS MUP is the author of a false list of 45 terrorist organisations in BiH. Also, I read in the media that the same person as a member of the bh. delegations at a seminar in the Czech Republic on the fight against terrorism presented BiH as a Balkan link to El-Qaeda, and presented our country as part of a global terrorist network, that 11 in BiH were stationed centres for training terrorists, and that the area of Sarajevo, Zenica and Tuzle marked territories where El-Qaeda was El-Kaida, ( laugh at you, Šemso), that there are jihad cells in BiH, and that BiH is a terrorist country, that a green transfer is passing through our country. There's nothing, he just forgot to say, as one citizen says, that we have atomic bombs in the mosques and the ammunition is there, so the cannon nest. I believe that what is done and the responsible are silent is inadmissible and that this is a continuation of BiH's destruction by other means. What didn't work out in the war is now trying in peace. These are all well-designed moves to bring BiH down as a state, to appear in the world as a dangerous terrorist country, to stop our progress for NATO membership, so that BiH does not get a visa-free regime, etc. As a State MP, I cannot accept such silence from competent institutions, it should be reacted. Because the institutions are silent, the responsible ministers are silent, as if nothing was happening, and in front of all of us, the destruction of the BiH state continues every day in front of our eyes. Thank you.
ParlaMint-BA_2010-04-07-0.u34151	Azra Alajbegović.
ParlaMint-BA_2010-04-07-0.u34152	Dear Chairman, colleagues and colleagues, ladies and gentlemen, I have an initiative to the Federal Ministry of Health and the Department of Health of the Ministry of Civil Affairs. The initiative refers to the organisation of an expert team that would create a complete death elaborated by Junuzović Adis, with all significant parameters, since we have some problems about the reason for this young man's death. This elaborate after the professional team has to be fully published, no matter how much it costs, in all daily newspapers and on all public broadcasters, means the RTV Federation, TV RS and BHT, for the purpose of getting to know the public about the specific problem of the disease itself, the treatment options of such patients in the world and with us and, in any case, to get to know the public with treatment procedures and diagnostics, also, in the world and with us. So, to do a comparative analysis of this death so that we can figure out first what the possibilities are in the world, then whether or not certain mistakes have been made at all, who made such mistakes, and not looking for the culprit, but trying to prepare everything for situations so that the mistakes don't happen again. What I would also like to say is that a special accent in such an elaborate should actually be placed on the treatment of such patients in the world, especially in the EU, to the mortality of patients in situations where it is possible to do a transplant and to the success of these operations. And as part of this draft, I think that the Department of Health of the Ministry of Civil Affairs should in some way address the public with complete information on Eurotransplant, because Eurotransplant is one specific organisation that not all EU countries are entering, that the largest number of media or humanists who have accused the carriers, particularly the executive and legislative authorities for the death of this young man, was fully familiar. So what is Eurotransplant, which countries are entering Eurotransplant, which, I would say, are characteristics of the possibility of approaching 12 Eurotransplant and that in fact, in some ways, the public is familiar with certain problems that these patients have both in the world and in our country. Absolutely, so I feel for the pain of the family, I express my regret of course that this young man's death occurred, but I believe that some media have committed the abuse of death, the rickety of this young man's souls, in order to in some way minimise the enormous effort and the enormous engagement and the enormous resources invested in the health care of our people. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-BA_2010-04-07-0.u34153	Husein Nanić.
ParlaMint-BA_2010-04-07-0.u34154	I thank you, Chairman. My fellow Members and fellow Members of the Council of Ministers, I would like to ask one parliamentary question today to the Council of Ministers, the Ministry of Justice and the Central Election Commission. It is known that the European Court of Human Rights in the case of Sejdić-Finc v BiH has reached a verdict and established a violation of the rights of the applicants and has ordered BiH to pay the amount of expenses awarded within three months, around 25,000 euros, as well as to order an amendment to the relevant provisions of the Constitution and the Election Law. Today, there are indications and serious discussions on this and data that several hundred citizens who are not entitled to be elected under the current law will also be reported in BiH's elections, which will also be covered by the verdict. And also, the other night, we could hear that even one of the applications that received the verdict is going to run again for the BiH presidency. If this happens with the fact that BiH has not acted according to the verdict, there is a possibility that BiH will pay millions of costs, because there is already a verdict and only a determination will be made and that BiH will be covered by human rights violations verdicts. I ask the Council of Ministers, the Ministry of Justice and the Central Election Commission: 'Is there an alternative and what will they do if the parliamentary procedure does not adopt the necessary amendments to the Constitution and the Election Law and if there remains this fact that there is the possibility of this number of announced applications, or announced applications for elections and candidates for those bodies which are not allowed by the law, and the verdict has allowed it?' And next, I want to submit today an initiative to include in the agenda at the next session of the House of Representatives of the agenda on the basis of Article 8. The Rules of Procedure of the House of Representatives, and on the basis of the conclusion of this House at the 68th session, held on 30.12.2009, when we discussed the Proposal for a Law on the Budget of the BiH Institutions and International Obligations for 2010. At that time, this home also made two conclusions regarding the same thing, i.e. The need for the Council of Ministers to make information on the lease of all the premises financed from the budget of the BiH institutions and the obligation is in both conclusions specified by the Council of Ministers to do so within 30 days. Since more than 90 days have passed since then, the question has been rightly raised and this initiative and the need to ask the Council of Ministers to finally do this information and deliver it to the Parliamentary Assembly for consideration. In that sense, I submit in accordance with Article 8. Rules of Procedure of the inclusion initiative at the next session of this Parliament item with the said agenda. Thank you. 13
ParlaMint-BA_2010-04-07-0.u34155	Željko Kuzmanović.
ParlaMint-BA_2010-04-07-0.u34156	Dear Chairman, ladies and gentlemen of the Parliament, gentlemen of the Council of Ministers, dear guests, I will ask the Ministry of Foreign Affairs and the Council of Ministers. I ask the Ministry of Foreign Affairs and the Council of Ministers to provide me with information on what was done in connection with the last affair in this ministry when the Department of Combating... the crime of a European country found that a computer within this ministry was removed from the Internet, specifically child pornography? Without commenting on such an odious act and an unremembered scandal, I must remind this home that I have just asked on this topic the Agency for Investigation and Protection, in October of last year, where I have alluded precisely to the abuse of Internet use, or child pornography, and whether there are capacities within this institution to combat them. I received the answer that unfortunately there are no, or that no such crimes are included in the Criminal Law. I ask the Ministry of Justice,... since I see that nothing is done to detect and punish such crimes, I ask the Ministry of Justice to prepare a bill of law as soon as possible, namely amending and supplementing the Criminal Code and preparing a bill to combat... crime. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-BA_2010-04-07-0.u34157	Vesna Šain.
ParlaMint-BA_2010-04-07-0.u34158	Dear Chairman, ladies and gentlemen, my question is this: 'I ask the Joint Committee on Administrative Affairs to answer me when will the Code of Conduct of MPs be adopted at the House of Representatives' sessions?'
ParlaMint-BA_2010-04-07-0.u34159	Rifat Dolić.
ParlaMint-BA_2010-04-07-0.u34160	Gentlemen Chairman, colleagues and colleagues, distinguished guests, I have two questions. My first question is similar to that of counterpart Alajbegović, and it is addressed to the Minister of Civil Affairs in the Council of Ministers: 'What is the current situation and what are the plans of BiH institutions responsible for providing legal regulation and financing abroad for patients who have the only chance of getting better and often for life? What is the BiH Council of Ministers doing to create the conditions and membership of BiH in the Eurotransplant programme so that citizens of BiH through the European Donor Network have a better chance of transplanting organs that are the most common issue of life or death?" 14 Also, to ask this question, I was prompted by the tragic fate and death of 19-year-old Adis Junuzović, whose heart, first of all, did not withstand the systemic disorientation of financing the necessary treatment abroad, and, when humanist appeals and actions in BiH were resolved by means of treatment, it turned out that Adis's heart did not endure the donor's waiting because it was not a priority that BiH was not a member of the Eurotransplant. Adis Junuzović is a victim of a serious illness, but it is only the last victim and neglect of the BiH authorities that this issue of system offices in a way that provides more opportunities and optimism for BiH citizens whose treatment abroad or organ transplant is the only chance left for healing and life. As it is today arranged in BiH, BiH citizens whose treatment is abroad are the only ones left to themselves, their families and human beings, and all this is often too late in the fight with sickness, money for treatment and administrative procedures. The second question is the Minister of Human Rights and Refugees at the BiH Council: 'What is the further fate of the cantonal commissions for the implementation of Article 143. The Law on Labour in the Federation of BiH and in the concrete case of this cantonal commission in the UN-San canton, given the fact that a large number of citizens of this canton have been unsuccessfully waiting for their cases to be resolved in this commission for years?" To ask this question, I have been asked of a number of citizens who have been waiting several years for their cases to be resolved by the Cantonal Commission for the Implementation of Article 143. The labour law. Most of these citizens filed complaints after a year or two of their waitings to silence the administration of the Federal Commission for the Implementation of Article 143 or the Federal Administrative Inspector. To me, a citizen of Canton provided documentation on five different failures and interventions by the administrative inspector to this cantonal commission, which could freely apply for the section believe it or not. I have unofficially learned that this commission has fallen apart, because it is reportedly not provided funding for its funding, and so citizens remain both unresponsive and without their rights. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-BA_2010-04-07-0.u34161	Remzija Kadrić.
ParlaMint-BA_2010-04-07-0.u34162	I thank you, Chairman. I am renewing the parliamentary question I have referred to and again to the Committee of the Public TV System of BiH, which reads: 'What is the status of the TV transmitter Jablanica at Bijeljina? Who is this traitor, under what conditions and under what regulations does he benefit?" I've got an answer I'm not happy with. They provided me with an answer, the Committee provided me with an answer in one sentence. I expect a renewed answer and at least two sentences to be delivered to me. Of course, I also expect the opinion of odbor member Ahmed Žilić, who is mostly in agreement with the members of the RTTV System Committee. So I expect to be satisfied with the repeated response, or an extended response. Thank you. 15
ParlaMint-BA_2010-04-07-0.u34163	Šemsudin Mehmedović.
ParlaMint-BA_2010-04-07-0.u34164	Madam Chairman, ladies and gentlemen, I have three short questions for the director of SIPA. In earlier times, in the 10th month of 2008, Dane Čanković of Banja Luka, the president of the NGO Isbor is ours, publicly at meetings, through means of information, calling on the RS Assembly and the Government of the RS, members of the Serbian nationality of the BiH authorities to leave the state institutions, to suspend all BiH laws, etc., which is a direct act of crime against BiH's integrity. The question is, "What has the State Agency for Investigation and Protection, whose real and legal jurisdiction has done on this matter, and what has the Anti-Terrorism Department done with the head of the department?" In addition, the Association of Chetnik Equality Movements with Duško Sladojević at the head and Rajko Cvetković are in the village of Undurlje, which changed the name of the same people during the aggression to Dražjevo after Draža Mihajlovic, public calls for the destruction of BiH's legal order, which makes the non-Serb people in BiH very upset. The criminal law of BiH, or Article 170, is clear on the matter. I therefore ask the question of the SIPA, or its Anti-Terrorism Department, which spent the most on state and foreign investments: ‘What has happened in this matter, whether or not it was still an investigation with the aim of identifying responsible persons or is it easier to monitor what is happening in the shade?’ Then, Neđo Ošap and Milan Barišić of the Ravnog Chetnic Movement were persons followed by police as potential organisers of the attack on the Pope during a visit to BiH. It's on the US administration list as an organization that helps terrorism. So the third question of the SIPAs: "What has the Counterterrorism Department done to document and prosecute the perpetrators? Who in the SIPA prevents the processing of cases like this?' Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-BA_2010-04-07-0.u34165	Denis Bećirović.
ParlaMint-BA_2010-04-07-0.u34166	Dear Chairman, esteemed colleagues and colleagues, I have a question that I ask at three addresses, the minister of security at the BiH Council of Ministers, the BiH Prosecutor's Office and the high representative in BiH, Mr Inck. 16 In BiH, we witnessed this major police operation called Light and we heard the official explanation of the authorities that the operation was carried out because of the threat, as they said, of BiH's territorial integrity. Although we at the SDP Club asked for full information a few months ago, we still did not get that information so that we could open an argumentative debate here in Parliament. However, I would like to ask the following question here: 'In the report Monitoring the Council of Europe's Parliamentary Assembly Committee on the functioning of democratic institutions in BiH, therefore it is a report by the Parliamentary Assembly of the Council of Europe, not by some report in BiH, the report stated a serious conclusion that the RS authorities are undermining the constitutional structure of BiH as well as the Dayton Peace Agreement. This is a quote. In view of this extremely serious assessment of the Parliamentary Assembly of the Council of Europe, I am asking the question of the Minister of Security, the Prosecutor's Office of BiH and the High Representative: What are you going to do specifically with the aim of stopping these anti-constitutional and anti-Daytonal activities of the RS authorities?'
ParlaMint-BA_2010-04-07-0.u34167	Sefer Halilović.
ParlaMint-BA_2010-04-07-0.u34168	Dear Chairman, I will only repeat this request to the Ministry of Foreign Affairs – to provide me with a list of holders of diplomatic and official passports and an explanation on which basis they are issued. I asked that question seven, eight months ago, but there's no answer, and I can see that he's not in this list of questions he's not answered. So someone put under the table, obviously there's something wrong, so I'd like to ask you to finally get me an answer to this question.
ParlaMint-BA_2010-04-07-0.u34169	Adem Huskić.
ParlaMint-BA_2010-04-07-0.u34170	Thank you, Mr. Chairman. I have a very short question for the Council of Ministers: 'Who has appointed and based on what rules of the Management Board and Management of the Public Enterprise Official Journal of BiH?'
ParlaMint-BA_2010-04-07-0.u34171	And we have selo Bešlagić. Here you go, Mr. Bešlagić.
ParlaMint-BA_2010-04-07-0.u34172	The Honored Chairman, respected colleagues and colleagues, respected guests, as I did not get a positive answer - who is in charge of controlling the implementation of adopted laws in both houses of the Parliamentary Assembly of BiH, and what are the consequences for those who have not applied the adopted laws - I propose an initiative for the Council of Ministers to analyse the application of 17 adopted laws and to propose ways to control the applicability and sanctioning of those who have been in charge of the implementation of the laws adopted. I'll just give you a few examples. The framework law on higher education absolutely, I'm saying, is not in line in Tuzla canton with this law. The answer I got was that we just don't have a mechanism. When I talk about the Framework Law on Sports, we also don't have an answer for who's in charge of harmonisation. When all we're talking about is the Public TV Service Act! I mean, it's proof that any lower instance violates these laws, or they don't apply them. For these reasons, I propose this initiative in order to definitely decide that the laws adopted by both Houses of Parliament are required to implement the one at the lower level in order to lay down regulations on sanctioning those who have not done so.
ParlaMint-BA_2010-04-07-0.u34173	No more reports. I'm closing point two. Moving to point 3. Ad. 3. Proposal for a law on the protection of geographical indications – Proposer: Council of Ministers of BiH (second reading) On the sequel of the 73rd session, this law was passed, this bill was adopted in the first reading. You have a report from the Constitutional Legal Commission of 2. 4. and you see that it is positive and you see that four amendments have been adopted that have become an integral part of the law. I'm opening a debate on the proposal for a law on the protection of geographical indications. I don't have any reports. I'm closing the debate. Let's go to point 4. Ad. 4. Proposal for a Law on the Protection of Toporgafi Integrated Car – Proposer: Council of Ministers of BiH (second reading)
ParlaMint-BA_2010-04-07-0.u34186	I thank you, Chairman. Here, I will really take the opportunity to and these activities listed in this report for a period of time since the appointed military commissioner and formed this institute to commend the way it works. And here, unfortunately, what you have and in other activities, the Commissioner is one of the few who is present at our sessions and on the issues that are being discussed, means at all the meetings of the House of Representatives and commissions, as we see from this report, the committees responsible for monitoring the work of this body. ... So that's one comment. And the other one that I wanted to give on this report is that, here we see from these, in this period of work related to the military commissioner we have 25 complaints. In total, there have been certain actions in the area and it is found here that these complaints have not yet been followed, that these certain sublegal acts are pending. That's why I wanted to appeal one to the military commissioner to do... as soon as possible and that all those who have potentially compromised their rights, on any basis, have the opportunity to seek compliance with their demands. And finally, the third thing I want to say is that like our commission, I support this report and I should, I appreciate that it is a serious approach to work itself and this report itself.
ParlaMint-BA_2010-04-07-0.u34187	I thank you, Mr. Nanić. 22 I suggest, of course, it would be logical since man is not here to provide him with a copy of the debate on this report, so he will be able to see this initiative of yours and accept it in some way. We're going, we're out, I'm closing point 14. I pray the messengers for patience, I hope you're not tired already, because we have a quorum at any moment, we don't have a quorum. But here we go to point 15. Ad. 15. Discussion on the conclusions of the European Union General and External Affairs Council on Bosnia and Herzegovina and Operation ALTHEA (EUFOR), the Commission's proposal for external affairs, conclusion with material, issue: 01,02,03/11-05-39/10 of 23. 3. 2010. Foreign Affairs Commission 18. 2. In 2010, she delivered a conclusion which reads: "The Foreign Affairs Commission proposes to the BiH Parliamentary Assembly's House of Representatives that, due to the importance of the EU General and Foreign Affairs Council's conclusion on the agenda of one of the next meetings of the BiH Parliamentary House." The Kolegijum was held at the 124th session, held on 22. 2., he called on the Commission to deliver material for discussion, as well as its opinion in order to make business assumptions for the examination of this material. The Commission is 23. 3. deliver the necessary materials. You got your opinion today. I'm opening a debate. Mr. Matić, do you need anything extra? There isn't. I don't have any reports. I'm closing the debate. Moving to point 16. Ad. 16. The Commission’s report to the College on the effort to reach agreement on Opinion No 2. Foreign Affairs Commission at the 74th House session, held 24. 3. 2010 debate on the report on the activities of the Council of Europe in 2009
ParlaMint-BA_2010-04-07-0.u34191	No microphone turned on
ParlaMint-BA_2010-04-07-0.u34192	Denise, there's no debate in principle, there's really no debate, so here's just this report and we're going to vote in the second round. So I'm closing point 17 and we're going to point 18. Giving consent to ratification. Branka, I don't know if I should read for the record. So, please be patient. Boško, everything went great. So, you're gonna make up for your presence here. So, I am obliged for the record, please, to read the agreements on which today we give consent to ratification: Ad. 18. Giving consent to ratification: (a) Agreement on air traffic between the Council of Ministers of BiH and the Government of the Russian Federation, (b) Agreement on financing and project between KfW, Frankfurt on May, and Bosnia and Herzegovina – Collection and Treatment of Waste Waters, Bihać, (c) Agreement on the Loan between Bosnia and Herzegovina and the European Bank for Reconstruction and Development for the Mahovljanska Loop project, (d) Agreement between the Council of Ministers of BiH and the Government of Montenegro on the Transport of Travellers and Freight in International Society Transport, (e) Agreement between Bosnia and Herzegovina and the Republic of India on mutual legal assistance in Criminal Matters, (f) Agreement on Loans – Project on the improvement of Living Conditions in the Village – between BiH and the International Fund for Agricultural Development, (g) Memorandum on Understanding between the Federal Minister of Defence and Sporta of the Republic of the Republic of Croatia, the Republic of Croatia, the Republic of Croatia and the Republic of Croatia, the Republic of Croatia, the Republic of Croatia, the Republic of Croatia, the Republic of Croatia, the Republic of Croatia, the Republic of Croatia, the Republic of Croatia, the Republic of Croatia, the Republic of Croatia, the Republic of Croatia, the Republic of Croatia, the Republic of Croatia, the Republic of Croatia, the Republic of Croatia, the Republic of Croatia, the Republic of Croatia, the Republic to the Republic to the Republic to the Republic to the Republic to the Republic to the Republic to the Republic to the Republic of Croatia, the Republic to the Republic to the Republic to the Republic to the Republic to the Republic of Croatia, the Republic to the Republic to the Republic to the Republic to the Republic of Croatia, the Republic of Croatia, the Republic of Croatia, the Republic to the Republic of Croatia, the Republic of Croatia, the Republic of Croatia, the Republic to the Republic of Croatia, the Republic to the Republic to the Republic to the Republic to the Republic to the Republic of the Republic of the Republic of the Republic to the Republic to the Republic to the Republic to the Republic to the Republic to the Republic to the Republic to the Republic to the Republic of the Republic to the Republic to the Republic to the Republic to the Republic to the Republic to the Republic of the Republic to the Republic to the Republic of the Republic of the Republic to the Republic to the Republic of the Republic to the Republic to the Republic to the Republic to the Republic of the Republic to the 24 You have also received the opinion of the Foreign Affairs Commission. You have seen that this is a positive opinion and that it is proposed to give consent to ratification. I'm opening a debate. There are no reports. I'm also closing the debate on item 18. So we're going back to point 13. I see Mrs. Ljilja present here from Mr. Chairman's office. Have you tried to secure the presence of Mr. Chairman of the Council of Ministers? So, I'm proposing a half-hour break. So, tell the Council of Ministers that Parliament was forced to skip the debate on the work of the Council of Ministers because no minister is present today's session. I thank you, it's an 11:45 break. [[PAUZA]]
ParlaMint-BA_2010-04-07-0.u34194	Comrades and fellow MPs, please take your seats. We've got... 13th item of the agenda: Ministerial Council report Given that the chairman of the Council of Ministers is here and has the need to comment or present this report, and that he will not be present afterwards, I call on Minister Nikola Špirić's Presidency to present the House of Ministers' Report on the work of the 2009 Council of Ministers. Here you go.
ParlaMint-BA_2010-04-07-0.u34196	Gentlemen Chairman, esteemed colleagues and fellow Members of Parliament, distinguished guests, I am sorry that I will not be able to follow the debate until the end in view of the obligations, because we have representatives of the World Bank and of the International Monetary Fund here... at the talks, but here I have assessed, in order not to endanger this item of the agenda, that it is necessary to be here and to address and give my views regarding the activities conducted in 2009. Of course, the secretary general and ministers will remain here if there are any questions they can answer. The Council of Ministers held a total of 42 sessions during 2009, including 37 regular, one extraordinary and four thematic sessions. The report considered 1,324 points, of which 1,293 were held at regular sessions, one at an emergency session and 31 points of the agenda at four thematic sessions. 25 In meeting its plans and duties, the Council of Ministers also established one amendment to the BiH Constitution, established 66 laws, adopted 24 strategies and action plans, adopted 254 decisions, established 145 proposals on the basis of negotiations for the conclusion of international agreements and agreements, established 101 draft decisions on ratification of international contracts, adopted 186 information from different areas, adopted 139 reports, identified 157 responses to parliamentary and delegate issues, identified 41 opinions on the draft laws, i.e. authentic interpretation of the provisions of individual laws. Starting with the fact that the two strategic objectives, full membership in the EU and NATO alliance, activities marked by the work of the Council of Ministers in 2009 were primarily aimed at implementing the visa liberalisation commitments from the Roadmap, implementing the obligations foreseen by the Stabilisation and Association Agreement with the European Partnership document, and the commitments BiH is facing on the NATO integration path. In this regard, the Council of Ministers took over a number of activities in 2009 to meet the requirements of the Roadmap for visa liberalisation and in line with the previous plan of action to meet the European Commission's recommendations on the Roadmap. Lasted on 31 December 2009, the Council of Ministers met 173 out of 174 conditions from the Map of Paths, while the last condition relating to the appointment of the Director of the Police Coordination Directorate was met at the 116th session of the Council of Ministers, held on 9 March 2010. Under Block I, which treats document security, it should be stressed that the competent identification agency has started issuing biometric passports, which was one of the most significant obligations in the bloc. What I can say is that by now over 80,000 biometric passports have been issued. Of the legal projects that were a condition for visa liberalisation, adopted by the Parliamentary Assembly on the proposal of the Council of Ministers, the Law on Border Control, the Law establishing the Anti-Corruption Co-ordination Agency, the Law on the Control of the Movement of Weapons and Military Equipment, the Law on International Legal Assistance in Criminal Matters, and the amendment and addition of the Criminal Law of BiH to which it complies with international requirements and conventions. In addition to those laws, the Council of Ministers adopted a series of strategies, regulations and other implementing acts which also represented technical conditions for white Schengen. First of all, the adoption of the Anti-Organised Crime Strategy, the Anti-Corruption Strategy, the Action Plan for the Prevention of Money Laundering and the Financing of Terrorist Activities, and the State Action Plan for Combating Drug Abuse. The implementation of the obligations contained in the European Partnership document, whose dynamics are presented by the Action Plan for Implementation, was realised, therefore not entirely, in the mid-term review of the following data: of the 222 planned activities with the planned implementation period in period 1. Seven. 2009 to 31. 12. In 2009, 88 of them were fully realised, while 134 activities were prolonged on a proposal from the competent institutions. Six have been realised in the context of key priorities of 18 planned activities. As part of the priorities set out in Chapter Political criteria of the planned 21 activities, 14. The economic criteria of the planned 11 activities have been implemented as part of the priorities set out in the chapter. As part of the priorities set out in the Internal Market chapter, 31 activities have been implemented since the planned 76 activities. As part of the priorities set out in section policy chapter of the planned 69 activities, 21. As part of the priorities set out in Chapter Justice, freedom and security of planned 27, 13. The best results were achieved in the field of Intellectual Property where all four planned activities were realised. In the area of 26 Customs and Taxes where nine of the 15 planned activities were realised, and in the area of Visa, border controls, asylum, migration: of 13 eight were realised. The most difficult job is in the area of Statistics where none of the seven planned activities has been realised, in the area of Financial Control where one of the nine planned activities has been realised, as well as in the area of Agriculture and Fisheries, where 41 planned activities have been realized 14. The measures provided for in the Interim Agreement Action Plan, the Stabilisation and Association Agreement shall be implemented by all competent institutions on a continuous basis and the current level of implementation at a satisfactory level. All these measures which have not been implemented in the previous reporting periods or for a period of time have continued to be implemented have been programmed in a new document: the Programme for the Implementation of the Interim Agreement, the Stabilisation and Association Agreement for period 1. 1. 2010 to 31. 12. 2011 Five temporary committees were held during 2009, namely the Interim Committee on Transport and the Sectoral Meeting of the process to monitor RPM reforms in the areas of transport, environment, energy, regional development, held on 22 and 23. 1. 2009 in Sarajevo; then the Interim Committee on Agriculture and Fisheries... sectoral meeting of the process of monitoring RPM reforms on food safety, veterinary and phytosanitary issues in rural development, held on 23rd and 24th 2. 2009 in Brussels; The Interim Subcommittee and the Sectoral Meeting of the process for monitoring trade, customs, taxes and co-operation with other candidate countries, held on 26 and 27. 2009 in Sarajevo; then the Interim Committee and the RPM Sectoral Meeting on the Internal Market and Competition, held 28 and 29. 4. in Brussels; the Interim Committee of RPM on Economic and Financial Issues in Statistics, held on 8 and 9. Six. 2009 in Sarajevo. The ministry of defence in co-operation with the foreign ministry during the reporting period has continued to fulfil obligations to bring the North Atlantic Alliance closer. During 2009, BiH made progress by obtaining intensive dialogue status, but NATO did not accept an application for the MAP Membership Action Plan. However, the reason for not accepting applications has been motivated primarily by political factors in BiH, which are expected to be overcome, and by the NATO alliance has been clearly welcomed to make progress in the defence system. The Partnership for Peace programme has successfully implemented all activities and, above all, concerns the implementation of proposals for planning and revision... implementation of partner objectives, individual partner, IPAP Action Plan, and the modernisation and implementation of the BiH Immigrant Partnership Programme for 2010 and implementation for 2009, making a list of implementation of the Agreement on the status of permanent military forces, and participation in the work of NATO structures and working bodies at the call or own assessment where significant improvements in co-operation have been made in the area of standardisation and protection, i.e. the exchange of information on airspace. The BiH Council of Ministers adopted a strategic document: BiH's communication strategy in the NATO integration process, and the Action Plan to implement the same One of the significant events in the previous year is certainly the fact that BiH is 15. Ten. In 2009, she was elected a non-permanent member of the UN Security Council for the 2010-2011 period, one of BiH's greatest successes on the foreign political scene. 27 Aware of the global opportunities in the field of economy, members of the Council of Ministers, the Resord Ministry and competent institutions have joined the timely development of measures by the Council of Ministers to mitigate the effects of the economic crisis on BiH's economy, which have been established and addressed to the BiH Parliamentary Assembly for the purpose of meeting. In light of the fact that, with the full agreement of all the shallow actors in BiH and the Fiscal Council of BiH signed a stand-by arrangement with the International Monetary Fund, the Council of Ministers of BiH met all the obligations arising from the letter of intent for the arrangement during 2009. In the area of agriculture in 2009 the Council of Ministers adopted the Strategic Plan... for harmonising agriculture, nutrition and rural development for 2008 to 2011 and the BiH Operational Programme for Agriculture, Food and Rural Development 2008-2011. It also adopted a proposal for measures to improve the conditions of business in BiH's agricultural production and food industry, which was sent to the Parliamentary Assembly for consideration and confirmation. The Council of Ministers adopted other important strategic documents, among which it is certainly necessary to underline the importance of the BiH Development and Science Strategy for 2010-2015 and the Sports Development Strategy in BiH, which systematically access these significant areas of social development and life. Another document meeting the objectives of the European Partnership, which essentially approaches the regulation of one of the major economic areas, is the Small and Medium Enterprises Development Strategy, adopted by the Council of Ministers in April 2009. The strategy has served as the basis for further activities in this area, which confirms the preparation of the Small and Medium Business Promotion Act, which has its basis in this strategy. The law was also forwarded to parliamentary procedure during the reporting period. What I want to point out is that this strategy and this law have resulted in the activities of the Council of Ministers together with the World Bank and that the World Bank has granted 70 million dollars in support of BiH's small and medium-sized enterprises under favourable conditions, and we already have this agreement at the next session that will come and be forwarded to the Presidency for ratification. I think it will help to develop small and medium-sized enterprises, and that is what seems to be related to the implementation of that strategy. All other activities undertaken have also been continued and planned during the reporting period by the restoring ministries in the context of existing capacities and current political opportunities. These activities are listed in this comprehensive report detailing all the measures and actions taken to implement the Council of Ministers' work programme during 2009 by each ministry in particular, and in line with the adopted methodology for the preparation adopted by the Council of Ministers. You are witnessing that in the parliamentary debate it is also required to establish therefore a unique reporting methodology for the work of the Council of Ministers for the previous years. We did it and in accordance with that methodology we provided you with this report, but I... considered it my obligation to say what these were strategic directions we were working on. I think that according to the mood that was, the political mood in BiH, that the Council of Ministers sought to meet its programme and work plan maximum. Somewhere we managed to finish the job, we were partially successful and I think, and I would pray that he does not doubt the Council of Ministers' commitment to work on speeding up BiH's path on his Euro-Atlantic path. The more political passing, the easier it will be within the Council of Ministers to make decisions to come to this parliament. 28 I thank you. I'm sorry I won't be able to stay until the debate is over, but here's the secretary general, you have a detailed report and I think I can ask myself questions and we'll be happy to answer your questions that we hear in the debate. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-BA_2010-04-07-0.u34197	I thank the chairman. Here, it's up to us to discuss this report further. The discussions were applied for and the first one has a word of honour from Parliamentarian Denis Bećirović. Here you go.
ParlaMint-BA_2010-04-07-0.u34198	The esteemed chairman, distinguished colleagues and colleagues, respected members of the Council of Ministers, we at the SDP Club of BiH believe that this important item of the agenda should be guided, above all, by an argumentable, tolerance that will be based only on the naked facts. We have no other countries except BiH and therefore, above all, as citizens of BiH, we are interested in this country moving forward. If nothing, at least do our children. So today we want to ask a few questions that this parliament needs to answer. I don't think anyone should be angry if the largest opposition party in this parliament, the SDP, raises a question now to the BiH Council of Ministers: Why has the Council of Ministers not realised more than 200 conclusions of this parliament? What are the reasons for such an ignoring relationship with this highest legislative body? We today have to ask a question that someone is officially telling us in this parliament, by the Council of Ministers, who is ultimately responsible for the tape we had for nearly five months last year when it comes to the appointment of the Minister of Security. Which is why BiH, the Council of Ministers, has wasted so much time on those intense debates, that we can finally get to the same result we could have as soon as the Security Minister's shift was done. Today, it would be good if the Council of Ministers argued here in front of parlament said what about the Council of Europe's reports on the particularly negative state and work of BiH authorities. Are we finally going to start taking the Council of Europe's reports seriously? Of course, there is no more painful topic, probably at this point for all BiH citizens and all peoples than the issue of visa liberalisation. The frustrations of all citizens are enormous. Who will be responsible for this in BiH? Is it possible that no one is responsible for this situation? We from the opposition ask one question: What would happen in the parliament of Serbia, Montenegro or Macedonia – if these countries had not received visa liberalisation, would these parliaments have kept one such fact silent? Could these governments continue to work if these countries were in a position like BiH today? Today, through this report on the work of the Council of Ministers of BiH, we need everyone, all political parties, and individually all of us, to say what we think about the work of the BiH Council of Ministers at the head of the Council of Ministers and to say whether we are ready to amnesty the unhappiness of this Council of Ministers in 2009. Since the report's for 2009, I'm not going to talk about the years before. I am sorry that the chairman of the Council of Ministers has come out, but several questions should be asked here that he publicly promised in his exposé when he became the chairman of the Council of 29 ministers. He promised us candidate status in the Eurointegration process. We ask the question today, here are six months until the election, until the end of this term, why are we so far from that promise? He promised us that this would be the land from which the good news would come. A lot of things went from BiH to Europe and the world, but very little good news in both 2009 and the previous years. We are told that there will be an accelerated opening of new jobs and greater employment. That's what I'm going to look at in the follow-up discussion with the concrete facts that talk about. We are told that here in Parliament we will pass a law on the confiscation of illegally acquired property, and there is no such law at the state level. We were told, however, whether the BiH Council of Ministers would work much faster than the previous council of ministers to compensate for the deficit. And here, we all witnessed together, whether it belonged to the position or to the opposition, not only did we not work as the previous one, that this Council of Ministers did not work as the previous council of ministers, but it was much slower. Four years ago in this House, we talked about how 150,000 new jobs would be opened in BiH. Compared to 2008, the number of registered employees was lower by over 20,000 in 2009. The number of unemployed has increased by over 27 thousand. The unemployment rate in BiH is over 42%, and in the EU the average is 10%. Do we have the right here in the BiH Parliament to compromise our government, our Council of Ministers of BiH with other countries? Let's start with the neighbors. Regardless of the constitutional constraints in BiH, why can't we say that this Council of Ministers can't pass the law in four years as far as the Government of the Republic of Croatia or the Government of the Republic of Serbia can in just one year, and we, or at least so declared, want to join the EU and that we want to meet European standards. Perhaps someone would make a problem about what the opposition thinks of the Council of Ministers and the Government of BiH, but there are official reports from the Council of Europe and other European forums that I am not going to quote now, there is no need, which speak of a highly unsatisfactory state. I know that many will try to deny certain assessments of the opposition, but even when they do so let them do so to the facts. However, it would be good indeed, and I want to do it again once again, to take seriously the warning from Europe and the assessment given by the Council of Europe about BiH. Only one of the reports in the Parliamentary Assembly of the Council of Europe said, I quote, "BiH has made very little progress in meeting the commitments and engagements it is due to meet towards the Council of Europe," and not to mention all other assessments that are not positive about BiH at all. At this point, given that I have less than two minutes to discuss, I think it would be a good idea for this debate to come to some concrete conclusions. That's why I'm going to suggest five conclusions to the House of Representatives for a statement on this point. I'm not going to read the first three, I'm going to deliver them in writing, and I want to make it public. In the fourth conclusion, I propose that the BiH Parliamentary Assembly's House of Ministers deliver to the Council of Ministers within 20 days a report on the work of the Council of Ministers in the current part of this term of office, from January 2007 to April 2010, with a specific reference to: - the responsibility of the BiH Council of Ministers for the extremely low level of implementation of planned annual programmes, as well as plans by ministries, - the responsibility of the BiH Council of Ministers for the inefficient work of the Council of Ministers, - the responsibility of the BiH Council of Ministers for delaying BiH in the process of realising the visa liberalisation commitments, 30 - the responsibility of the BiH Council of Ministers for not having a precise action plan to meet the Stabilisation and Association Agreement. And, the 5th conclusion, after all, in my view, is the only logical: the BiH Parliamentary Assembly's House of Representatives for the inadmissible poor implementation of planned activities, failure to fulfil the obligations and tasks provided for in the Council of Ministers' programme, as well as this terrible fact that BiH citizens are rare hostages in Southeast Europe who cannot travel freely, that the Council of Ministers should, by 1 May 2010, initiate the procedure for the replacement of the BiH Council of Ministers. I think it is the only possible conclusion of this parliament at a time when almost all promises have been betrayed and when BiH citizens have been brought into this position. No matter how this conclusion sounds, if we're going to talk about this matter in just a language of fact, I think he's the only one that's possible.
ParlaMint-BA_2010-04-07-0.u34199	Thank you. Replica, honourable MP Šemsudin Mehmedović. Here you go.
ParlaMint-BA_2010-04-07-0.u34200	Actually, it's a business intervention. Namely, here we have heard the opening statement of Mr Špirić, the chairman of the Council of Ministers, and I think it is inappropriate for him to tell us his story and we here, without the presence of a single minister, to discuss the work or report on the work of the Council of Ministers. Because it took ministers and the chairman of the Council of Ministers here to hear questions that only they could answer, no secretaries, no assistants, no advisors can. Because Mr Špirić needs to answer why, because he is BiH's biggest brake on the way to the EU, he should respond to his speeches at the UN General Assembly, he should also answer the questions of corruption that is evident in BiH institutions, and for which he is responsible, and also about the purchase of the vehicle, about the purchase of premises for the BiH Official Journal, etc. So, I think it's unnecessary for us to even discuss today, we could send these political messages to each other and through the media, we shouldn't have had a discussion on the agenda at all. And so I think it might be appropriate, here, to suggest that we postpone this when we can be ministers present and chairman of the Council of Ministers so that we ask them questions, that they answer some things that are not in this report at all and not mentioned. Of course, it is the right of the opposition to perform like this and it seems to me that the opposition is too mild in relation to the problems that BiH has and the problems which, unfortunately, the Council of Ministers is making for us. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-BA_2010-04-07-0.u34201	Replica, chairman of Živković. 31
ParlaMint-BA_2010-04-07-0.u34202	Thank you. In agreement with the secretary and with the chairman of the Council of Ministers, we assumed that this item of the agenda would be found after lunch, but here we did today's work much faster than we planned, so some of the ministers could not attend this item of the agenda. The chairman of the Council of Ministers asked that it be now, that he be present and that he has scheduled meetings afterwards, so I don't think it's correct to accuse them of something that we can do. However, a dose of self-critics must exist in this House. And on the agenda we have a report on the work of the Council of Ministers who, with 11 reports from our commission, followed. There were all those who could be asked questions within their jurisdiction, of all committee members. I would remind you that in 11 reports from our committees: everyone adopted a report on the work of the Council of Ministers. Here, so we can move forward and say, when we made remarks to the Council of Ministers in recent years that there is no unique methodology in making reports, that our commissions have in different ways made the report, that some commissions have only accepted knowledge, other commissions have written that they are forwarding to Parliament for further decision-making, third commissions have adopted conclusions, and the fourth commissions have passed the adoption of this report with conclusions. So let's be a little self-critical, that our commissions here should write at least methodologically that the reports are adopted, that information is being received and that commissions have the right to propose to the House and certain conclusions. If the debate is about the Council of Ministers, or the chairman of the Council of Ministers, let us open the topic of trust, not the subject of this report, which 11 commissions have given and supported this report. So the excuse can be a lot, and today's agenda point, I think it's elaborated enough on committees, and we just need to round it up here. Thank you. Dear Ambassador Drago Kalabić. Here you go.
ParlaMint-BA_2010-04-07-0.u34203	Thank you, Mr. Chairman. Although you've taken part of my discussion, I haven't seen you answer the line, because we don't see it from here, but in any case I can't support the need always for the presence of both the chairman and the council of ministers here. But at the same time our principle of principle when it comes to relationship, here's what Mr. Mehmedović said, is not standing anywhere in committee reports, and he probably took part in some of the commissions' work when it comes to these things, but here we are doing these public shows and everyone has the right to their own position, so for all these things, it is his right to flirt with probably a new position, which he regrets is not..., and probably all things are directed towards October and desire who will be the position. Calling the opposition, I haven't heard that yet, that it's too mild by the position, it just has a state like this, which only shows more about the relations in it, and the question of who the opposition is here, who the government is. Also, when we were principled on everything that was happening to us, the SDA could also say that what we can't, probably also get those ministers, its members, who she accused last year of flirting with terrorist activities and why BiH stood for several months. Since they are not members of the Council of Ministers now, they have participated in part of their position in the Council of Ministers, it is our request that they be there too, so that we too can ask some questions if we engage in identifying 32 possible and responsibilities and what was happening in the Council of Ministers itself and in this Parliament. So if, as I support, we have demands, we need to be principled so that we can do what we ourselves can do within our political parties, possibly, clubs or those we can influence to behave in accordance with what we say.
ParlaMint-BA_2010-04-07-0.u34204	Thank you. Dear Ambassador Momčilo Novaković, replica. Here you go.
ParlaMint-BA_2010-04-07-0.u34205	I thank you, Mr. Chairman. Dear colleagues and colleagues, you see, I don't think this debate is possible today, not because there is no Council of Ministers chairman, but because there is no Chair Council of Ministers and Ministers. In fact, we know how the Council of Ministers works, and we all understand here how the legal area is regulated. And lead today's debate, and based only on a request to be present here as chairman of the Council of Ministers without all ministers, there's no point. I also don't think there's any point in having a debate if the Council of Ministers isn't complete here. Look, we have reports from our committees, it's not a dispute, we have a report from the Foreign Trade and Customs Commission that said, "The Commission proposes to the House of Representatives to adopt a report on the work of the Council of Ministers in the section concerning the activities of the Ministry of Foreign Trade and Economic Relations." And that ministry, with 44%, implemented its programme, that program, which it put before itself. Or, say, the Transport and Communications Commission, which says, 'After a general debate, the Transport and Communications Commission unanimously accepted the report in the section concerning the work of the Ministry of Communications and Transport,' which the ministry realised with 39% the programme objectives it set before itself. So we have a set of reports that, regardless of what was written there in this report, in one uniform way or, as they say here in a similar methodology, are exactly the same methodology that evaluates the work of the ministries, or that part of the Council of Ministers that they analyzed. I therefore join those who think it is not possible to hold a serious debate on the work of the Council of Ministers unless they are present here and the chairman and all ministers. If we can't do it today, then we should say when we can do it and have a quality discussion. In doing so, of course, I am defiantly opposed to the idea of changing the Council of Ministers six months before the election. So, people should work to the end, people will evaluate and voters will judge whether it was good or not. But now it is already a matter of discussion, therefore, which I will have if this proposal is not accepted and I would ask to give the proposal in writing 'to delay the debate on this issue until the presence of the chairman and all ministers is secured'. Thank you.
ParlaMint-BA_2010-04-07-0.u34206	Thank you. So, according to the Rules of Procedure, we can discuss each item of the agenda even though the promoter is not there. If there is a requirement for the motionor to be there, then we must put it on 33 votes. And please, make those suggestions and I'll put it to the vote. If we decide to discuss it without a proposing, then we'll have a debate, so we've done it so far. I will satisfy the replicas of the application and, if necessary, after the debate, we will continue after the vote on the proposal immediately. Mr Ahmetović, Minister of Security, has a word. Here you go.
ParlaMint-BA_2010-04-07-0.u34207	Dear fellow Members, honourable Members, ladies and gentlemen, I do not have a mandate to speak, of course, on behalf of the Council of Ministers, but I would like to say that the Ministry of Security had the most designed tasks in the past year and here somewhere in the 84% procedure has been carried out and it may be, according to that statistics made in the Council of Ministers, in one of the most successful ministries, but it is not the point of that story, because I want to say something when it comes to visa liberalisation, given that there are some, or there are some reports, hints from Brussels. We have fulfilled our map of times, completed, as I have already said in the last session, the evaluation. The European Commission's decision will be about to take place in May. So, I'm, uh, here now before I got here, talking to the Minister of Foreign Affairs of Španija, there are some hints that we should maybe do, they're not in the Roadmap, but they might send a good message to Brussels to speed up this process. As you know, the Anti-Corruption Act has been adopted, in the procedure of appointing the Management Board or the bodies to be appointed by the Director. This procedure is going slowly and I want to ask you here today, therefore, Parliament to appoint the acting director of this anti-corruption body until the election of the director. I am afraid that the procedure will be filled out by these three members, and then the call for a contest, and then the election of directors will go away, and that will possibly be a problem for us in our talks for the citizens of BiH to come to liberalisation this year. So please, I have spoken to the kolegij this morning, and today I am asking you to draw one conclusion that this Parliament appoints the acting director of this anti-corruption body until the election of directors in the regular procedure. I thank you, I'm here if there are any questions and I'm willing to answer them. I don't have a written proposal, but here's how we can do it. Chairman, I thank you for giving me your word. Thank you.
ParlaMint-BA_2010-04-07-0.u34208	I thank the minister. Let's take the line of the line. Dear Ambassador Milica Marković. Here you go.
ParlaMint-BA_2010-04-07-0.u34209	Thank you, Mr. Chairman. Well, I answered to say, first of all, that I generally support all those who have said that it is necessary and useful to discuss when we discuss the Council of Ministers' work report, it is necessary and desirable to have all ministers present and chair as well. 34 But my replica refers to the presentation of Mr. Mehmedović, who imputed and burdened Mr. Špirić as the chairman of the Council of Ministers for the fact that today, or here to say but one, ministers are not present. I think it is incorrect because Mr Špirić still took the time and came, addressed parlament and told what its obligations are and why he cannot continue. And we can now ask ourselves: Is it natural and normal for me to adapt as Parliament to the obligations that he too has as chairman and possibly some other ministers, or should we ask that the IMF and the World Bank adapt to us, so that they wait there somewhere while we complete the debate, expose issues, replicas and everything else? Mr. Mehmedović, you know very well that Mr. Špirić is only the first among the equal and that it is not his responsibility in terms of political control and party discipline of ministers sitting in the Council of Ministers and... that is what the political parties that have proposed and appointed them there should do. And that primarily applies to your party and your minister. You are now imputing to Mr Špirić that he is responsible for this, for that, for many things, and you have not asked these questions when they are for much harder things than you have done to him today, which you have burdened him, your ministers, from your ranks, made certain problems and we know how they left the post, ministerial positions, and what they did to him and what countries were advertised and how they treated them as ministers and BiH. So I think it's incorrect and I mean that Mr. Špirić is not responsible because the ministers, he said nicely why he can't be, and just when I thought about saying that the SDA party should first discipline its ministers to come and be present, Mr. Ahmetović seemed to have heard me, so at that very moment he appeared at the door. It should be, to keep in mind that we are correct and principled when we call someone for something.
ParlaMint-BA_2010-04-07-0.u34210	Thank you. Replica, honourable MP Šemsudin Mehmedović. Here you go.
ParlaMint-BA_2010-04-07-0.u34211	I didn't expect Mr Špirić to have this many lawyers in the BiH Parliamentary Assembly. But let me, I've tried really to be principled and I said there's not a single minister, I haven't told any political party, and it's incorrect for the chairman of the Council of Ministers to tell us his story and leave this room. He knew about today's session, he knew about the agenda point, therefore he should have planned his obligations... and not that Parliament was adapting to the chairman of the Council of Ministers or the Council of Ministers as a whole. It is true that I, as a member of the Committee on Foreign Trade and Economic Relations and the Commission on Transport and Communications, participated in the discussion of these two committees and that I also supported the Council of Ministers' work report in the area of the work of these two ministries for the reasons that in these two ministries there has been a change of ministers and the arrival of new ministers in these two ministries... They really started the work of those ministries from a dead end. And because of that, it means one incentive for ministers to work even better here. Secondly, here Mr. Kalabić noted that someone was flirting with terrorist activities. He probably listened to my parliamentary question at the beginning of this session, so if it concerns that, okay, but I really couldn't claim 100% of what this was about. But any flirtation with the opposition is out of the question, we are two opposing political parties in this 35-seat parliament, but I say here we are giving the opposition material and the very act of leaving the Council of Ministers, because he does not want to answer questions. And here, we MPs from the post also had questions, why not, is someone not allowed in this House to ask the chairman of the Council of Ministers about some things from the domain of his work. We're not going to ask him, of course, why here's why he doesn't appoint directors of certain bh. an institution. It's his job and he's holding back the appointment. For what? Let him say whether it is a lack of political will of political parties, whether it is a lack of respect for the law and so on.? He knows that he has been violating the Council of Ministers' Law for nearly five months by unnamed security minister, Mr Ahmetović. Besides, I don't really know if there are SDA ministers here. There are ministers here at the Council of Ministers who have chosen this home. It is therefore the ministers of BiH, or the Council of Ministers. And I would pray that such a termology is not used in terms of, well, there are SDA ministers and now the SDA needs to discipline its ministers. We are therefore inclined to expect from ministers and to ask ministers and the chairman of the Council of Ministers to respect the Law on the Council of Ministers, Ministries, etc. I don't see that any political party should discipline any minister. Therefore,
ParlaMint-BA_2010-04-07-0.u34212	Time!
ParlaMint-BA_2010-04-07-0.u34213	in terms of the responsibility of a particular minister, we have taken measures, we expect other political parties to, in accordance with their powers and capabilities, demand the responsibility of the ministers they have proposed. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-BA_2010-04-07-0.u34214	Thank you. Replica, honourable Ambassador Branko Dokić. Here you go.
ParlaMint-BA_2010-04-07-0.u34215	Thank you very much, Mr. Chairman. My replica is a colleague of Novaković's or better told, come on, that's one explanation. I'm not going to deny him because he was right when he said that, among other things, the Communications and Transport Commission supported the report from the resolution ministry. I just want to remind you that we received this trip, unlike in previous years, some brief report from the Council of Ministers, that there were no entire areas covered by that ministry in that report. We were told it was some new approach from the Council of Ministers. If you take into account the fact that last year, just to remind you, twice we returned the Ministry of Communications and Transport's report, only on the third occasion we proposed it with the reservation to this home, it was except us from this commission, I don't remember anyone else discussing anything else, so there was no effect. Offered by this experience and counting that no effect will be done this time, we did as we did. I have to say, there was no big debate. The minister was present and it took very short time to find out that we didn't get at all, I don't know if it was delivered to you, that we didn't get 36 complete reports at all but just some copies from the report, so we couldn't even commit to all things. As soon as I have received my word (I will finish in less than half a minute), I support this initiative by my colleague Novaković, noting that the Kolegijum should then, in coordination with the chairman of the Council of Ministers, determine one day when this debate will not have to be the day when we hold the session. It may also be a special debate if, once again, we think that we will benefit from this debate, given the fact that we have only six months to go by the next election.
ParlaMint-BA_2010-04-07-0.u34216	Thank you. Dear Ambassador Azra Hadžiahmetović, replica. Here you go.
ParlaMint-BA_2010-04-07-0.u34217	Thank you, Chairman. I will only briefly refer to proposals and findings in the replica that it is not good to hold a debate without the Council of Ministers present. You see, this home has been chosen by the Council of Ministers and this House can discuss and discuss the Council of Ministers' work report or a report of inaction or inaction, when it comes to the executive body, is it, in BiH's power. I'm not up for it. We had a debate on the agenda this morning, no one suggested, although we had already suggested in the College that the chairman had an obligation at the scheduled time and that it might happen not to be present, the whole time there was no talking about the other ministers. Someone is probably justified, someone who has been unwarranted today, but I'm not for us now to delay the debate during the debate, considering a particularly important presence here as minister and chairman of the Council of Ministers. You see, the item of the agenda is, to remind you, the report on the work of the Council of Ministers. Someone may not like the work of the Council of Ministers, but this report has been well assessed by the competent committees as assessed. However, I appreciate something much more useful, which is that a stenogram from today's debate on the report on the work of the Council of Ministers is delivered to the Council of Ministers who may be able to show some of the items that will be presented during today's debate. So, without delay, I think we can discuss the work of the Council of Ministers. That is why it can serve us a report on work as a basis, and I also appreciate that the Council of Ministers can be manifested and agreed with the kolegij on a joint discussion in this House that would refer to the possible causes of dissatisfaction in this House which are already listed in today's debate on the work or dynamics of the Council of Ministers' work. So I suggest we do the debate today. I remind you again, we have a report on the work of the Council of Ministers, so let's focus on this report, and the parliamentary questions and answers were an hour this morning, 99.9% of them referred to the Council of Ministers, with the exception of one addressed to the High Representative, right. So, we have a form to address the ministers and the Council of Ministers in general and we get answers to that, but let's concentrate on the debate and on the essence. Thank you. 37
ParlaMint-BA_2010-04-07-0.u34218	Thank you. Here, we have another report on the replica, and then I'm going to put it to a vote on what we were talking about. Dear Ambassador Husein Nanić. Here you go.
ParlaMint-BA_2010-04-07-0.u34219	I thank you, Chairman. Here, I accidentally deleted myself from the motion for discussion, but I had a replica, here,...about this conclusion by Mr. Novaković and this discussion that we had today on this... relations of the Council of Ministers – Parliament etc. I'm asking the question of the relationship between the College and the Council of Ministers. You have, as MPs, or you have not, informed us, put us in a position to discuss this for half an hour and to ask for the Council of Ministers or not to be. I really believe that this could have been quite simply solved in a way that the College of the House with the Council of Ministers established when there was no obligation of the Council of Ministers. I know that some ministers, regardless of whether we postpone today and tomorrow, are not in BiH at all, that from Monday they are here, etc., so that you could avoid this situation that in agreement with the Council of Ministers, you made sure that it might be a single item of the agenda, that the Council of Ministers would be provided at a time when it corresponds to them, and that, on one occasion, on a truly correct approach, we have the opportunity here to say everything and to hear and think and explain the Ministers' presence on this report. And the next thing that I'm saying here, especially because we had through committees, what you said at the 11th session, 11 commissions delivered their opinion, which we through the commission received from the College a warrant or such a request to consider the materials of those ministries to which they relate. And now we are in a situation where, individually, each minister should come out, not just the chairman of the Council of Ministers, say about his ministry, because that's how it took the views of this commission and then you have, you saw there what Mr. Novaković said about the reports, certain conclusions of this commission, which I would not comment here at this moment, which really lead to absurdity of this situation. To conclude, so you really, I mean, I apologize if you did, but I really think it might have been in line with the Council of Ministers of the College and then we're not bringing Parliament into this situation.
ParlaMint-BA_2010-04-07-0.u34220	Replica, honourable MP Šefik Džaferović. Here you go.
ParlaMint-BA_2010-04-07-0.u34221	Just for a little while. So it's no one's own replica, an attempt to explain things in the light of this proposal that came from the SDA Club. I personally don't mind, nor do I think of anyone here in Parliament that we are discussing when there is neither Mr Špirić nor any of the 38 ministers, but the issue is the effect. We've prepared ourselves, we have what to say, right, on this subject, but to discuss the work of the Council of Ministers, it's not really the way this report was submitted and the way it's written here. It's something that's much, much deeper. I want to discuss the Council of Ministers that should be the engine of the reform processes in BiH, and it is not possible to separate the work of the Council of Ministers from the overall current political situation in BiH. That is why I also need the chairman of the Council of Ministers and Ministers at the Council of Ministers, and if possible the presidents of all parliamentary political parties, including members of the presidency. This is one of the most important questions for me. Because this debate needs to be won, it needs to get something. We have a few months until the election, to see what we're going to do in these few months, can we do anything for these few months, because it's not possible to isolate the work of the Council of Ministers from the context of the general political situation. And that is why, even if the chairman of the Council of Ministers who is to have contact with party presidents, members of the Bureau, are necessary here, in his capacity, and ministers. And I understood this proposal that came from the SDA Club. I think it's much better if we move it today, let them know when this debate is gonna be. Let's come look ourselves in the eye and tell each other honestly what we have to say. Nothing more.
ParlaMint-BA_2010-04-07-0.u34222	Thank you. The second vice-president, Mr. Beriz Belkić. Here you go.
ParlaMint-BA_2010-04-07-0.u34223	Here, I understand Mr. Nanić. It's a logical, logically set thing, so for each session, it's trying to provide a proposal for material, about this important case, so the entire Council of Ministers. We've been informing, calling, here's the break we've been taking, so we've been calling the cabinets, etc. and get information: one is on an official trip out of the country, the other is with important delegations here in BiH, chairing it with representatives of the World Bank, etc., and that will almost always be the case and we will always have difficulties in agreeing. However, I have answered, and we have tried, but obviously, without success, there is a large number of obviously MPs who are fully convinced that things would change completely if everyone here were now sitting at the head of the presidency. I think it is too ambitious to expect, in one instance, that, in the debate, in one report, we generally change the relationship that we have been building for years between this legislative body and the executive authority. So we have missed the opportunity in this mandate... to position ourselves as in all democratic countries the legislative authority has this control function towards the executive authority and that the executive authority, in some ways, takes care of the views. You've heard for a moment that there are 200 conclusions that are not realized, but we've failed to use the only instrument possible, and that's a government shift. We didn't do it. And now to try, through one item of the agenda, through one report of things to change, I'm not really an optimist. 39
ParlaMint-BA_2010-04-07-0.u34224	Thank you. We haven't touched this report yet, we're talking about work and mode. Replica, the honourable MP, Remzija Kadrić. Here you go.
ParlaMint-BA_2010-04-07-0.u34225	I thank you, Chairman. We have 11 commission reports on this point, this is what you were talking about. So, when we look at the reports of the Commission, we can see that only the Joint Commission on European Integration and the Commission on Foreign Trade and Customs had certain observations and the Commission on the defence of the principle of nature. So these other commissions have accepted such reports. So, we can, if these chairman committees, from the commission to the commission, open a debate here on a report from the authority of these committees. So the question is, how seriously did we approach this in committees? So, just two commissions, from this report, they had the right comments, this remains not. So one principled question arises -- how much we and through these committees have had such a relationship with this issue -- so I think we can discuss this issue without the presence of these people from the Council of Ministers.
ParlaMint-BA_2010-04-07-0.u34226	Thank you. Dear Ambassador Mirko Okolić, replica. Here you go.
ParlaMint-BA_2010-04-07-0.u34227	Thank you, Mr. Chairman. I'm going to give a line to everyone who thinks they can today, or that they need to be discussed. Of course you can, but I don't think you should be discussing this report today for a number of reasons. I'll give you two key reasons. One reason is that the Council of Ministers has nothing more to do than to comply with their obligations with the Parliament's session when they need to discuss their report, because it is up to them to consider any other obligations a hindrance if Parliament should happen as it should, but unfortunately there is no such possibility, to evaluate their report or their work through a report such that they cannot get a passing assessment, and here, God Bog for them any other measures as someone has suggested here. Let's say, the launch of the shift initiative, etc., etc. The other reason is because I am not only interested in the chairmanship of the Council of Ministers or perhaps one of those present. I am interested in the full composition of the Council of Ministers because I have more questions from several areas, which are treated by several ministries. I'm not going to ask the Chairman's Council of Ministers here before I ask one of the ministers for my comments, so when I hear from him the remarks, which are these, then I'm going to ask the Council of Ministers whether he could influence it or not, if he did do something about it. So that's why he should be here full of the Council of Ministers. 40 Furthermore, when it comes to committee discussions, I think it's a matter that has nothing to do with this report. It came to the committee with a request to discuss the report on the work of the Council of Ministers, which I don't even know how, whether it's parliamentary (we're all surprised at the commissions from where it came from, etc.) from the work cycle, i.e. from the commission's jurisdiction, so that whoever is in one commission can comment only on what is in charge of his commission. And probably, through the verse came the answer as it came from those commissions, and I am interested in being able to discuss and to give criticism or praise to the Council of Ministers in areas that are not in the jurisdiction of those committees in which I am a member. I want to have the opportunity to ask a particular minister a question whose ministry does not intertwine through this committee or through a commission where I am a member. Therefore, and my proposal, I would like to join those who think it is better to have today's debate, and in order to safeguard the dignity of this House, let us postpone, to task the Kolegijum with agreeing with the Council of Ministers when this session can be held. Of course, I am aware that not all ministers, i.e. that it is not so much a need for everyone to be 100% represented here, but they can be represented in some small number of their deputies, and that mostly there are ministers and the chairmanship, and let's say one of the two ministries, if that happens with great justification, that they can be deputies. But this really doesn't make sense, because there's no way to discuss it properly.
ParlaMint-BA_2010-04-07-0.u34228	Time!
ParlaMint-BA_2010-04-07-0.u34229	Furthermore, here I am immediately finishing, as this began, it seems to me that now and there is no need for the opposition here to talk about the Council of Ministers. We have talked about this many times through some of our earlier proposals, and the confirmation that the position does not need opposition because they themselves are opposition when it comes to the work of the Council of Ministers, i.e. through this report it can be confirmed. So, the proposal is to put you in charge of agreeing when you can and that we're not discussing it today. And of course, if we refuse, and if we argue, I'll report for discussion later. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-BA_2010-04-07-0.u34230	Ten minutes break.
ParlaMint-BA_2010-04-07-0.u34231	Okay. We'll take a break, so 10 minutes. It's just that you've all received this proposal from Mr. Novaković. Did you get it? So that's in line with the Rules of Procedure: 'Article 68. (2) In the absence of a proposal from the House, the House may decide to lead the debate without the applicant’s presence.’ We will vote on this request and then decide to either continue or end the debate about it. 10 minutes break at the request of the SNSD Club. 41 [[PAUZA]] Comrades and fellow MPs, please be patient. The SNSD MPs' club asked for a ten-dimensional break. Do you need to explain the break? Here you go.
ParlaMint-BA_2010-04-07-0.u34233	Thank you, Chairman. Well, we need to say that in certain consultations we've cleared up some things. We invite everyone to continue today's debate, we think the conditions are all obtained here, here's the chairman here. Also, normally, we don't run away from voting on any other proposal or conclusion. The call for postponement, and those who will support it, we understand that they also want to talk about the mistrust of the Council of Ministers and we are ready for that story. So, if the SDA gentlemen thinks we should talk about it and make a statement about it, it's not a question. We are thus interpreting your call to postpone this debate and as far as we are concerned, it is not disputed, but we think it is the most logical thing to continue today. And we invite the others to finish this item on the agenda.
ParlaMint-BA_2010-04-07-0.u34234	Thank you. I would like to inform you that the Honorable Chairman of the Council of Ministers has left the meeting with Mr Kurkulas and here he is present and eager to answer the questions raised here. That we received letters from the Foreign Ministry about the presence of a secretary, Mr Adnan Hadžikapetanović. That we have received oral notice from the Ministry of Civil Affairs and the Ministry of Trade that the secretaries from their ministries are also present here (the deputies are on their way) so that, I say, they open up the possibility of this debate being made. However, according to what we agreed, we are voting on the conclusion of the honourable MP Momčilo Novaković: 'The House of Representatives is delaying the debate on the report on the work of the Council of Ministers. It is up to the House of Representatives' College to ensure the presence of the chairman and minister during the debate on the subject." Please prepare to vote. You can vote now! "For" is five, "against" 16, "remained" nine. I find that this conclusion has not been accepted and we continue to discuss this agenda point. Dear MP Nermin Uzunović has been reported. Here you go. 42
ParlaMint-BA_2010-04-07-0.u34235	Thank you very much. Dear Predator, colleagues and colleagues, I would like a few things that were very interesting to me when I read this. In fact, we have a lot of data, we have something called the report and it's atypical, in which there are no reports of the work of certain ministries, but it's called: the most important activity and state in a particular ministry. When we discussed it on committees, then we realized our obligation to determine the facts, what was done, and we against the facts can't be against, we can't be against the facts. So the facts were that something was done and something was not done. So we've adopted facts that stand, and the facts are, unfortunately, here when we enter the measure of things, devastating. I'd like to remind everyone here that this year, right, when this Council of Ministers is ending our mandate and that we should have, along with this, what was done during this whole period. For one such as myself, who watches this report only for 2009, he encounters a mass of questions that he cannot get an answer to. First of all, of all the comparisons to what the ministries were supposed to do and what they did, we got one plate that we got somewhere at the end of this report, which is once again catastrophic about the results of every single ministry. There's not a single ministry that's filled out what's been drawn. The text even states that some ministries were also reducing, believing that their over-plans had been adopted, and that these plans were reducing, and then from that reduced plan, the realization was of course not 100% but just some percentage less than 50%. The Council of Ministers and this Parliamentary Assembly does not exist on its own and it does not serve itself. And what the Council of Ministers did or didn't do should not be of interest only to us. We've been elected by citizens here, and we're supposed to be making bills for those citizens. And when the ruling coalition was formed, it promised citizens that both the ruling and the opposition political parties would sign a civil platform in which they had pledged to meet some 12 conditions. These conditions are necessarily linked to the work of the Council of Ministers and to the functioning of the coalition. I will not single out individual political parties or individual ministers here. And at least I'll criticize only the chairman of the Council of Ministers. Of course, he's just one of those who didn't do well. So, they all share the responsibility, the same responsibility shared by the coalition political parties, who appointed the government and who did not find the strength in time and found the courage to initiate procedures to discipline the work of their ministers in the Council of Ministers. And when we look at what is concrete, because this is a report on the work of the Council of Ministers, for which not only is the Council of Ministers wrong but the entire ruling coalition, then there are very measurable facts. We have here information as to how many meters of canals have been dug up to demining. We here have a fact of how much demand on some counters has been received more than it was in the previous period. But unfortunately, we do not have the information, which can explicitly be clear to all citizens, what is the Council of Ministers, which is the result of this ruling coalition, has made those strategic goals, which have been committed by signing a civil platform, promising the international community to meet certain conditions – what has it done? 43 So we have the result that, of course, of that promise, not that there is nothing but that it was just like a colorful lie from those 150,000 new jobs. Not to mention extreme poverty which, not to be eradicated, has been increased. If you go into municipalities, you will conclude that everyone in their local community has more folk cuisine, if we take this as an extreme standard, that BiH has not become a country of equal opportunities for young people. And the polls that you can read anywhere show that behind both entities 70% of young people would want to leave this country, because they're probably very well and their government is functional. Then, if it wasn't for reduced public spending, then that reform of the education system, as much as it was at lower levels of government, as much as it was, it starts here, it creates roof laws that unfortunately aren't always in line with the international ones, and we witnessed one of those that our children, our students don't have the same rights as those around. And as for why the Council of Ministers was most responsible, it is a requirement for obtaining candidate status for EU membership, the chairman himself, in his brief presentation, made it quite clear that only 88 of the 222 planned activities had been carried out. It is a defeating fact, not only for the Council of Ministers, but for all those holding this power, who are in the coalition, they failed to agree to realize what they needed, which was their common obligation. Further, if we look at the key priorities: of the 18 planned executed six. Of the political criteria, therefore, a group of political ones: 21-14, etc., not to repeat what it says in this report and what the chairman said. I have to speak so critically, I have to point out the bright examples. We just had an example of the Institute of Intellectual Property. That if it were to be done, then we can see that two, the Institute and one agency did 100% of what they planned. So there is individual responsibility, not just political responsibility. Here, we had an Economic Forum yesterday and there's talk of foreign direct investment. Gentlemen, both the Council of Ministers and representatives of coalition parties have promised that direct foreign investment will be much greater. Unfortunately, the data shows, and you know better here, that's not true. We know there are political and there are bureaucratic factors. If you couldn't do political things, you could at least eliminate those bureaucratic factors in the Council of Ministers in order to make it easier for those who want to invest to come to BiH. So what this coalition is based on, on which it appointed the Council of Ministers, on which the Council of Ministers founded its work, i.e. we must all say, whether or not someone liked it, an apparent reluctantly supported, that the pre-election promises made by political parties in 2006 for citizens to solve their problems were not realised. From here, from this work of the Council of Ministers, it can be said, indeed, that the ruling coalition, once again, is a non-functional coalition that is unable to respond to or partially to the needs of citizens, is unable to achieve what it has promised to a lesser extent. What do you think if we had now some company of these that would be formed here by investors that we would warmly want to attract and if we were in?
ParlaMint-BA_2010-04-07-0.u34236	Time! 44 NERMINA
ParlaMint-BA_2010-04-07-0.u34237	I'm just going to finish, and if someone in that company said 50% -- I'm not going to do that -- and then out of that 50%, I'm just going to realize part of it. What do you think would happen to this management and these workers who have achieved such a result? That's how I see it here, and we from the SDP see the work of the Council of Ministers. They are the executive authority in the service of the citizens of this country. Thank you.
ParlaMint-BA_2010-04-07-0.u34238	Thank you. Dear MPs, I would like to warn you of these good and bad sides of replica and discussion. In fact, technical possibilities are such that whoever applies to the replica automatically deletes it from the discussion so that it is necessary to re-apply, and on the other hand, you have the right to the championship in the replicas. Dear Ambassador Slavko Jovičić, replica. Here you go.
ParlaMint-BA_2010-04-07-0.u34239	Thank you very much, Mr. Chairman. Replication to the presentation of colleague Uzunović. I'd like to sign your presentation now if we were members of the Swedish Parliament. Dear colleagues, I will not defend the Council of Ministers' report, nor anyone, but you, I have not counted, have mentioned the coalition at least 10-15 times. First, there's no coalition. These were partner relations from the necessity of forming government, as the RS parties did not choose their partners in the Federation, nor did they choose us. Now, if you were alone in power, the SDP, and you had your Council of Ministers, you wouldn't be able to get what you've listed and what you're criticizing. You were in power like many other parties, so there were countless problems left. But, dear colleagues, we live in such a country where there are interests of three constituent peoples and other and two entities. And you just had to keep in mind that in the parliamentary procedure here there were hundreds or dozens of laws that were anti-constitutional and couldn't go on to realize how you now want to present it here. No Niko has done anything; and if only you were in power, you would have done everything. Well, you're not because the people don't trust you, and if they ever believe you, you'll be in worse trouble again, because then they'll believe you even less, because you had a chance and you didn't take advantage. And indeed, there's no need to keep using the term coalitions, coalitions. There's no coalition, no one ever signed, never talked about it. What did you want? That we from the RS or our Federation partners say - we will not form a Council of Ministers - and be in a stalemate position. Is that what you thought? We, for our best purposes, formed the Council of Ministers to do what was possible. Of course I'm not happy too. But could the chairman of the Council of Ministers be able to relieve a minister if he did not respond to his duties and tasks, if he did not realize what you were saying? Of course he can't. But you have to understand what kind of state we live in and how it's constitutionally defined, how territorially it's set up, how all of these interests break down. And if I were to tell you what you didn't say, because it's constantly potential, the entity vote prevented something, it couldn't have been on the Council of Ministers,... Parliament. It is never misused if they were in the parliamentary procedure of constitutional laws, because we were not and will not be a remethylative factor, but active creators of better relations in BiH. 45 But that is why we greet you when you criticize, for only then we see and compare, we make a parallel, if by any chance you were, God Bog, then we would have no discussion about this; for you would not do anything, absolutely nothing. So go ahead and criticise it, but you won't succeed in your intention, just to put fire to this, to what, and what your contribution was to move forward. Nothing. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-BA_2010-04-07-0.u34240	I thank the honourable representative. Next is Remzija Kadrić, a replica.
ParlaMint-BA_2010-04-07-0.u34241	Replica is a short-respected representative of Uzunović. So, we had a 10-minute SDP pre-election rally, giving us a flat-rate assessment of the work of the Council of Ministers, and particularly of certain ministries. So these were one flat rate, using this to keep one pre-election SDP rally here for 10 minutes.
ParlaMint-BA_2010-04-07-0.u34242	I thank the esteemed representative, Kadrić. The following was announced by Honorable Representative Rifat Dolić, a debate.
ParlaMint-BA_2010-04-07-0.u34243	Gentlemen Chairman, colleagues and colleagues, distinguished guests, I must first give recognition to the Council of Ministers for the courage that, after all that has been done, better said, which has not been done in 2009, to report to this house and transparently show what they have done since their planned activities in 2009 and what they have not done. It really needs to be brave and publicly written that the most responsible institution of the BiH executive government carried out barely a little more than 30% of planned activities in 2009. I believe that the decision to submit a report on the work of the Council of Ministers at this pre-election time has certainly not been made with the knowledge and consent of the electoral headquarters of parliamentary majority parties. I think I won't make a mistake if I say that 2009 is one of the most unsuccessful years in BiH during the post-war period of work of the Council of Ministers. If at least a partial indication of the basic characteristics of the situation in BiH in which the Council of Ministers worked and which, in some ways, is a product of the Council of Ministers' work, it would be next. We have not met the conditions for white Schengen and with Albania, therefore, we remain the only country in the region whose citizens need visas to travel to EU countries, whose country is isolated, etc. NATO therefore did not accept the Action Plan for the MAP, despite some progress in defence reform in BiH, which is undeniable. Not one step has been achieved in achieving reforms in BiH, above all, those reforms that are a condition for BiH's accession to the EU. The slightest progress of the BiH Constitution reform has not been made, it can even be talked about taking a few steps back and strengthening the environment of disintegration and division of 46 BiH. The economic crisis and recession are harassing BiH and there are no co-ordinated anti-recession measures to mitigate the consequences of the country's crisis. There is a tendency for BiH's financial borrowing with the IMF and other financial institutions, most of which is aimed at financing the spending and maintenance of this government, and bills to collect such behaviour will be expensive and will come very soon to collect. On the other hand, BiH has about 2 billion KMs of non-use loans and therefore BiH pays 8 to 10 million fines annually. Most of these loans, I note, are intended for public works in the public sector, Railways, Elektroprivreda, travel infrastructure, etc. The revenues made by the Direct Taxation Authority by 1 billion KM are lower than in 2008. Employment fell by around 4% compared to 2008 and only as a result of the economic crisis and recession, about 50,000 workers were fired in BiH. BiH diplomacy has worked at a level below any minimum that would be appropriate and necessary for the current position of BiH. The Parliamentary Assembly, despite serious warnings from the international community, has not reached consensus almost a year on the appointments of leaders in institutions of great importance, above all, for European integration and the European path of BiH. Under almost all economic development parameters, BiH has fallen to the ranks of countries of the world in the fight against corruption and organised crime, foreign investment and others. BiH is at the very top of the countries towards which the international community is expressing great concern and is giving very many warnings, etc. What cannot be seen from this report on the work of the Council of Ministers, and what is a key factor in the inefficientness of the Council of Ministers – these are themselves relations within the Council of Ministers. It is no secret that the Council of Ministers often and on key issues for the country has failed to reach a consensus and is operating on the remote leader of parliamentary majority parties. The Council of Ministers' relationship to this home is a special story, which is the best illustration of the fact that the Council of Ministers did not, therefore, realize not 200 but 240 conclusions of this home. With honorary exceptions, we have ministers in the Council of Ministers who hold as much to this House and MP as they hold to last year's snow. So, personally for me, this report on the work of the Council of Ministers has a passing assessment as a document. But this report found that the Council of Ministers in 2009 carried out only one third of the obligations they planned for themselves. So, the report on the work of the Council of Ministers has a passing grade, but a passing grade for its work has no Council of Ministers. I agree that there is no right now, six months before the election, no logic to vote or vote for the Council of Ministers' mistrust, because it would be a sort of reward for them at this point. This should leave the Council of Ministers to work for another six or seven months and eventually take pictures with less than 30% of the jobs they planned for themselves and with a dreary picture of the situation in BiH that they leave behind and which, I must say, they have painted largely. This is a picture of this parliamentary majority, which has been highly conducting by the Council of Ministers, which is only a barometer of the Council of Ministers' work. How this picture of the citizens of this country will be scanned and memorized remains to be seen in less than six months. In this regard, I have not cited the positive shifts and positive examples that have been made, because I really mean those positive examples. Certainly, BiH's choice for a non-permanent UN Security Council member is one of the positive things that happened to this country last year. 47 Finally, then once again, the report as a document deserves a positive assessment for me, and the Council of Ministers is far from a positive assessment. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-BA_2010-04-07-0.u34244	Thank you. The following has been reported by a respected representative, Savo Erić.
ParlaMint-BA_2010-04-07-0.u34245	Gentlemen chairing, respected colleagues and colleagues, honored guests, I am pleased to discuss this report because it is difficult for this institution to reach some reports from many institutions. That's one thing. And it's a great pleasure to see some ministers, it's been three and a half years since we've chosen them, I haven't even seen them since, and maybe they've changed, so honestly I couldn't even recognize them right now. Thank those who have come, at least, to respect the opinion of our parliamentarians, and also to respect the opinion of the people, the people we often call upon, and it seems to be just declarative. What I'd like to say is, I wouldn't repeat it now, most colleagues have said about all the questions why we can't do this debate transparently. Because there are no adequate people to ask a question. Here, I'm interested in the DKP network now, I'm interested in the ambassadors who represent this country, I'm interested in people who are set up there, what they're doing, and that's a very important question if we're already talking about our way and the connections with the world that we need, because simply, they're our ambassadors and the people who are moving that story. But most likely... the minister is gone, and I suppose he doesn't care what he thinks or the chairman of the Council of Ministers and we MPs. What I'm still interested in means what security is in the state. Intelligence has spent this much money and, therefore, we ourselves know what our security is and what our conditions are. I'm just curious, so where did they spend that money and explain to us what they've improved and what they've done in relation to their plan that they put forward when we adopted the budget. And the question arises whether, because of this way, we're going to come up with a position to think about what's going on with the old savings and all these unfortunate people. If we're going to end the return of the refugees, if we're going to finish any more projects that mattered and that was in the plan, and it wasn't realized. It's very important, so what we have is our duty, whether we leave what money to pay back or we're going to be courting all the time. I'm glad that Mr. Špirić was now with the IMF, that he should still... ask for some more money so that we can spend it, the question is who will pay it back. Did anyone think in that story about the inner debt that is the noose around our neck and that will lead us to the bottom of the ocean from which there will be no return? But most likely we're thinking now: it's another six months, we're gonna hold on and it's the end of the story, so we'll see what happens next. What's important and what needs to be realistically understood is why this is the situation, so we have party ministers, party orders, and it's very difficult to lead and lead such a team, but now it's too late to discuss it and it's the only thing that needs to be accepted as a fact. The question is, here are the many debates now, we had a plan, this plan is good, what is evident – what about 48 of it's realization. It's a really embarrassing and difficult question to say that we only realized 30% of what was planned. Whether we planned it badly or people didn't want to do it. The question arises: if ministers have such a relationship, what are their co-workers and what are their respects towards the direct ministers and the obligations and salaries they receive. What's important is that we consider these 1,300,000 by the end of this year how we spend. Are we still thinking about the future? If we have a bad plan, it means if there's a bright spot that we're going to change something by the end of the calendar this year and say that we're going to change something. For 2009 to be a bad year, there's not much we can change in it except what we're going to say. And what I'm curious about is whether the issue of last year's crisis... and we're told about this pay phone here that there will be no crisis, that it will bypass us, that we're small, and here's the crisis strangling us. By the end of the year, we will certainly be out of many jobs, many people will close their firms, many are over-indebted and the question arises, they expect someone to think about them and that the laws and legal procedures will try to make these issues easier for them, but apparently we have no intention of changing anything in 2010 by managing these 2009 balances. That's it, thank you.
ParlaMint-BA_2010-04-07-0.u34246	Thank you. The honourable chairman of the Council of Ministers, Dr Nikola Špirić, answered.
ParlaMint-BA_2010-04-07-0.u34247	Gentlemen Chairman, esteemed fellow Members of Parliament, distinguished guests, I have reported to you for the reason that I will have to be away again for two hours and I am sorry that I will not be on this report until the end but I will try to return. I hope the debate isn't over. What I'm trying to say is that we're deliberately or accidentally chasing things. This isn't the government, this is the Council of Ministers. We all know that there are fundamental differences between the government and the Council of Ministers. I know that the report submitted by the Council of Ministers to this Parliament is a convenient opportunity to tell political stories. And I don't find that hard, but we can't change the 2009 Council of Ministers report. He is a reflection of the situation in BiH. I said at first that I wish there was a greater pass on the Council of Ministers. We have fulfilled 66% of our legislative activity. Where is she threatened? Why is it down to 30% or 20%? There is not enough political consensus within the country and this is a reflection of the country's situation. And of course Parliament needs to discuss how further we can improve this matter. So, Parliament is wondering. So, this report, I don't have a need, this is for the first time, you know what problems we've had, I've been in Parliament for 12 years, in fact eight was, we haven't received any report. This is the first one. __________________ [[no microphone turned on]] What? 49 __________________ [[no microphone turned on]]
ParlaMint-BA_2010-04-07-0.u34251	I thank the Honorable Chairman of the Council of Ministers. Replica, distinguished representative Šefik Džaferović.
ParlaMint-BA_2010-04-07-0.u34252	Mr. Chairman, I would only like to ask the Chairman of the Council of Ministers for one more minute. So I will give up my discussion. I will speak of the replica. So I understand the position the Council of Ministers is in. You are not a government, you are an organ of the executive authority called the BiH presidency. And we recognized it and saw that it was necessary to change it in BiH, the Council of Ministers should be positioned as a government. The Council of Ministers has obligations on the European path that governments have, and it has the capacity that it has, and I understand that, I don't need to talk about it, I was very much in favour of changing the matter in BiH a few years ago. However, Mr. Chairman, there is one other thing that you and all of us here need to look openly in the eye. I am not here to change the Council of Ministers, to tear down, I am staying in this parliamentary majority, I think something better is not possible even now, I do not know after the elections that BiH will be, but there is a consensus in this country that the country is going to the EU and NATO, therefore to Euro-Atlantic integration, so that consensus exists. And when we talk about the EU, the EU is the one who tells us what to do, which gives us the task. I don't think you as the Council of Ministers in your capacity have taken advantage of that position you have on the basis of a political consensus already presented. You cannot say there is no political consensus when it comes to the European path of BiH, it exists. And I expect you not to subject yourself to the policies of the parties from which the Council of Ministers comes, but to stand as leader in all this. Yes, politics has said - the European way, the EU says - must do so in the country. I'm expecting to hear a voice like that from you. I don't think you took that opportunity to the end. There have been several situations, several cases, but I think that in the end, it is again as the EU asks, and we are only wasting our time and being punished. We lost six or seven months of visa liberalisation and were punished for doing the same 52 things we could have done six or seven months ago and not being punished and all suffering the consequences. I just want you to see this thing as the Council of Ministers and I want you, as the chairman of the Council of Ministers, to speak more on the subject at the Council of Ministers. That's one thing, then. And the other thing, I noticed that this general political climate, except for not being used, actually produces one lethargy, one indifference in the total state apparatus, not only in the Council of Ministers but also in Parliament and everywhere. So it happens that we get an amandman to the Constitution without a provision that says when to come into force. And then it happens, every day on the Constitutional Legal Commission, I have it up there, and we're going to start taking back the laws, and I want you in this country as the Council of Ministers as part of what you're doing to raise the matter to a higher level of responsibility, to a higher level, we need a higher level of responsibility in this country if we want to move forward. So, I want to make a full point of this report to point out these things, I don't want to tear anyone down, elections come in a few months, people will say what they have to say on the subject. Thank you for staying and listening to me.
ParlaMint-BA_2010-04-07-0.u34253	Honorable Council of Ministers Chairman Dr Nikola Špirić.
ParlaMint-BA_2010-04-07-0.u34254	I'm sorry that I can't stay longer, but I think these discussions that I respect very much, because me and Šefik understand absolutely well, we can continue at my place and his office, and I'm absolutely open to this kind of conversation. I know best what kind of atmosphere I can use for good things for BiH. And just remember, here we were talking about visa liberalisation, no I'm not the kind of man who's going to talk about my activities every day and my conversations with ministers when I tell them he's not the minister who's sitting in the office, he's got to go to Banja Luka, Mostar, he's got to go and talk about it so there's an acceptable solution. But you must understand that the Council of Ministers is, after the constitution, a mini parliament and that the parties are determined by ministers, not me. ... I have no objections to my colleagues, we work, we work as hard as we can. And therefore, as far as the European Partnership is concerned, so we have this problem, but it is more strongly expressed here in Parliament. So I'm saying that both addresses are the ones that have to take that challenge. I agree when it comes to the European Partnership – there are no obligations on the Council of Ministers, but there is something that is politics, a matter of agreement. If someone doesn't want to talk, it's a punishment for BiH. So, I'm just a man who calls daily to keep talking. I think all things are resolved wherever people sit that it's possible to compromise. And I'm ready and, after all, I have to tell you that there was no part of me that would not have been even reached, but I expect you to say the same. Why is it a shame, if there is, if there is someone, I am willing to applaud any better solution in this place. But I won't, I didn't come here to complain about the conditions, they are who they are. And I agree with the Šefik, let's build conditions better for those who are coming, and that's why we need to talk. Can there be a new condition, can the Council of Ministers get these outlines that are spoken of or not? That doesn't depend on Nikola Špirić. And I understand, we can talk about this, and I think this is a real topic, but not today about this report. 53 Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-BA_2010-04-07-0.u34255	I thank the Honorable Chairman of the Council of Ministers. The next is distinguished representative Husein Nanić.
ParlaMint-BA_2010-04-07-0.u34256	I thank you, Chairman. It was really useful for the chairman of the Council of Ministers in several of these talks to tell us about the atmosphere, which we know, in which the Council of Ministers and its certain impotence has shown clear, correct, true and I think it is such a situation, especially when he said that the Council of Ministers functions as a mini parliament. What this report on the work of the Council of Ministers for 2009, which is a document that gives us a picture of the work of our executive authority, can say the first thing, the first commendable thing and that... is that we received this report in time, that it corresponds to the period when it was done and in a very correct time it was delivered that we can give the assessment still under the impression of work from last year. It can also be said on the basis of the general, overall results in this report and the atmosphere little the chairman of the Council of Ministers talked about, and when we remember the failed talks of political leaders from Prud, Butmir, the atmosphere in BiH, the global financial economic crisis in the world, that the situation in BiH... which the chairman of the Council of Ministers says - is not as black as we make it ourselves and as much as he wants to introduce ourselves. Those things that should certainly be praised in the past year are that our Fiscal Council of BiH signed a stand-by arrangement and fulfilled all obligations under the arrangement, that conditions from the Roadmap for visa liberalisation have been fully met and... that the BiH authorities have fulfilled this. And here I come to this disagreement with my colleagues, especially from the opposition that are attacking, because BiH has not received any condition and no gift has already been rough to the end, they have asked BiH to comply with 174 conditions and the Council of Ministers has done so, it has done so manly. You should have done it. __________________ [[no microphone turned on]] Yeah, that's, maybe that's it, I think they did it well, given the atmosphere that... I don't know how you translate it, I'm sorry I'm in, I don't know how, how you figured out this expression of mine, but you can also polish it. I think there's a jargon in the people that doesn't need to be explained any further. Furthermore, I want to say that the currency is stable in BiH, that the Central Bank is functioning, that BiH regularly settles its obligations towards external debt and that at all levels in BiH, all budgetary users receive regular salaries. We can look at both the environment and the countries that are also in the EU, what is happening to the budgets and what... is the situation in these countries, not to mention some of them here where there is a very, very bad state. 54 What I particularly want to comment on is about two ministries that were discussed in committees, in which I am a member – is the Ministry of Foreign Affairs and the Ministry of Transport and Communications. And it can be seen, especially for the foreign ministry that two key things, very important and key things, strategic things for BiH -- non-permanent membership and visa liberalisation are successful stories. Unfortunately, we have a stalemate approaching NATO. We have information about what this is about, that these are objective things. What I would also like to commend from this ministry is that finally... a plan of activity, i.e. an action plan related to foreign investments, or so on, has been drawn up within this ministry. economic diplomacy, and that we have very successful negotiations by the minister, namely successful foreign investment talks with Qatar, Libya, with Kuwait on the significant funds provided for BiH. It is also a successful story of the number of ratified international agreements, 89, 31... in the procedure and 35 in the preparation phase. And what's also a positive story is that BiH is expanding its diplomatic activities and establishing diplomatic relations and having established diplomatic relations with 11 new states last year. Also, it can generally be said that this ministry, meaning from this area, the Foreign Affairs Commission has given an assessment, can get a positive assessment with all the problems it has in the functioning of the ministry itself. And also related to the Ministry of Transport and Communications I want here, perhaps my subjective assessment, especially at the arrival of the new minister that we have a really positive story about digitalisation in BiH, about the highway project on Corridor Vc. I am pleased that the Council of Ministers has in its activities certain activities related to rail traffic, the Capljina-Niksic railway line, and activities related to the Adriatic-Ionian road, largely, it can also be said that in the field of this ministry there is also a positive story and that a generally positive assessment of the work in these two ministries can be given. Thank you.
ParlaMint-BA_2010-04-07-0.u34258	Thank you. Dear Ambassador Momčilo Novaković, discussion. Here you go.
ParlaMint-BA_2010-04-07-0.u34259	Thank you, Your Honor. Here, I'm gonna try to really cut the discussion short and skip a lot of what I'm about to say. But it is evident, therefore, that we have this report that counts somewhere in 313, not somewhere but 313 pages, of which five pages is some introductory part that speaks of the Council of Ministers, and all the rest are reports individually, meaning ministries and institutions with 20 pages of contributions. The very way of reporting on the work of the Council of Ministers speaks about the essence of the functioning of the Council of Ministers. I must say, when we look at what marked the functioning of the Council of Ministers in 2009, then first of all, the Council of Ministers functioned and functioned as a set of party officials. So, a set of people who have tried to implement party goals and most often that radical part of the party's goals. And if that's the case, then it's no wonder there's so much left unscathed in the previous period. Of course, I don't want this justice of the Council of Ministers, it's not my least intention, but I want to say that these parties, so the Council of Ministers was and was a picture of interparty conflicts within the parliamentary majority. And because of 55, I cannot accept the replica of my colleague Jovičić that this is the mere majority to create power has formed power, because the seven parties that have formed power have signed the document. If it wasn't for that document, maybe it would be and it would be like he says. Unfortunately, there is a document and through this document are defined objectives of functioning set before them by parliamentary majority parties. The second to mark or mark the functioning of the Council of Ministers is the affairs with the Security Ministers. Namely, these are the only affairs that, in this way, have, therefore, surfaced, marked the functioning of the Council of Ministers. I wouldn't talk now that I'm talking about affairs... what else is all this, we're witnesses to what happened in 2009 in certain ministries, why all the accused ministers, the chairman, etc. about corruption, oh, I don't know, I don't know, everything, we've heard it all, and there's no need for me to take a lot of time for you, and I don't think I have enough space to bring it all out. The following is a low degree of implementation of programming tasks. In fact, on page 221 of this report, there is a degree of implementation of programming tasks that the ministries and institutions themselves have placed to surrender and it ranges from 0 to 100%. So, 0% of the Public Administration Reform Coordinator's Office has distributed its programming tasks to 100% of the Agency for Labour and Employment. But it is indicative that some ministries have done it with 39 or, I don't know, 40 percent and that unfortunately they have received the full support of our commissions, or reports from our commissions. There is also a low level of implementation of legislative activities. Namely, I have here a programme of work of the Council of Ministers for 2009 that envisioned the adoption of 101st law. There are, however, 97 in this report, four laws, meanwhile, have been lost from the programme to the report, and 41 of those 97 laws have not been proposed. I did not count on a percentage, but it is evident that it was over 40, that it was over 40%; that of those 56 proposed laws 25 was not adopted in Parliament; 31 of the proposed laws before the Council of Ministers was adopted, 29 of which were imposed by the High Representative and two of them by the High Representative. It's that degree of realization of your own plan. Therefore, the degree of implementation of its own objectives and laws proposed by this Council of Ministers. Of course, you could be talking about a series of reasons right now. I agree with the chairman of the Council of Ministers that the work of the Council of Ministers is absolutely the result of a general climate that exists today in BiH. But gentlemen, those who make up the parliamentary majority today are responsible for this climate, it is not in itself created by this climate, so the Council of Ministers shares part of the responsibility and thus created climate today in BiH. And I will say two more things, I repeat what I said in the replica, I am not in favour of resigning the Council of Ministers, I am not in favour of voting on the trust of the Council of Ministers and I will not support this conclusion by the SDP. First of all, because I think today the resignation of the Council of Ministers or the shift of the Council of Ministers would lead to an even greater crisis in the realization of certain objectives, including the wishes that we all have here. If we had them honestly, it would create a new state of chaos that wasn't far away, meaning in this country, and I think the shift of the Council of Ministers would just be the border that would have crossed it. I do not represent a political party that thinks... that the solution is to create chaos, but rather the opposite, and therefore I will not support this position, that is, this conclusion of the SDP. Of course, in doing so, I think that this would be an adventurous of the Council of Ministers, because simply, whatever they're doing for the next six months, everything that's been going on in three and a half years would be hidden behind those six months. 56 And another question, it's about the method of working on this report. In fact, I have read here one view of the Joint Defence Commission that these reports should not be discussed on committees in the future, and I must say that I absolutely support that position. I think it's pointless to discuss how we lead her in committees on the report of the Council of Ministers. Now, look, let's say, let's say that I wouldn't, here, quote my colleague Azra, with her permission, and this particular sentence of hers shows all the essence of this debate. A Koleginica of Azra said: "The report on the work of the Council of Ministers is well assessed in committees as it is assessed." That's right, so that report was well rated as it was evaluated. In fact, we saw a positive opinion of the committee on ministry reports, the work of ministries that realised 39% and 44%. Well, there's how we discussed it in committees. Let's say, on the Constitutional Legal Commission, we unanimously decided to refer the report on the work of the Council of Ministers to the House of Representatives. And we haven't debated him for a second on the Constitutional Commission, but we have made a decision to refer him to the House of Representatives, which has already been done before us. So, I don't think it's a good idea for the reports to be discussed by the commissions, I think we should find another form that would be more efficient, that wouldn't just be formal and that makes sense, means a parliamentary debate about such reports, otherwise this way it really loses any sense.
ParlaMint-BA_2010-04-07-0.u34260	Time!
ParlaMint-BA_2010-04-07-0.u34261	I was really short, thank you very much.
ParlaMint-BA_2010-04-07-0.u34262	Thank you. We have two replicas. Dear Ambassador Slavko Jovičić. Here you go.
ParlaMint-BA_2010-04-07-0.u34263	Thank you very much, Mr. Chairman. Well, dear colleague Novaković, you spoke in one section today as if you were a representative of the Centre of Civil Initiatives. And you know that I'm giving huge support to the NGO sector, but that's how they come out with the numbers: predicted 106 laws, 94, adopted 12, 14, and no one says, either of them, nor of us here, could it have been more. I will tell you today that it is not and will never be possible for one party to rule here, and not these seven, as you said, and that agreement to one. Well, it's been signed here for countless agreements, but even more has been made countless misunderstandings based on these agreements. So we never take into account the environment in which the Council of Ministers and this Parliament works. The interests of parties, entities, peoples, cities, villages, individuals and, of course, we have this situation. Mr. Novaković, I say, I respect everything you said, but that's where our friends come out, who I support, and they come out of the conference, tomorrow they'll organize again – the Council of Ministers has done nothing, Parliament is even worse, and they don't say what we are. So we lost days and days to 57 agreeing to some laws and eventually turning them down. Why? I repeat, because they were anti-constitutional. No Niko will say there were dozens of anti-constitutional laws in the parliamentary procedure. Could we have accepted that? We're not and we're not. It's not blackmail, but it's the environment we work in. That's why the various figures were planned, not planned, whether anyone has a feeling and whether they see the political space we live in, first, across Europe and not only in BiH, and then in the economic environment. Planned these laws, planned those. 14 laws passed for the last year from an economic area that really gives us a chance to move forward. No one's going to affirm today, no one, no reporter is going to write it tomorrow, but they're going to say, as they're waiting for me there, whether there's going to be a declaration about Jermenija, so I don't know. Let's go, people, let's see what we've done and what's possible. I'm not happy either, of course, it could have been more, but how could it have been more. And one more thing, Mr. Novaković, you were in Parliament, so your minister of justice here one day said he wasn't a member of your party, so you wanted to replace him, so you didn't give him a second session, and you were in Parliament, that you didn't replace him. Here, I'd have replaced half the members of the Council of Ministers today if I could. But that's not possible, there's no capacity for any party, or this coalition that you're talking about. But you're a little relieved of these other partners of yours from the opposition, so you said, "partners have signed." So what did they sign? They signed a lot of things, but I'm a partner here to you, Mr. Novaković, and you to me, let's work together. But I'm asking you, and you know better than I do, because you've been in Parliament for longer -- what's better, what's more possible? I'm telling you, it's not possible anymore. Thank you.
ParlaMint-BA_2010-04-07-0.u34264	Thank you. Now we have two replicas again. Dear Ambassador Denis Bećirović. Here you go.
ParlaMint-BA_2010-04-07-0.u34265	I want to explain several of Mr. Novaković's latest allegations as follows. In fact, we have all witnessed today that it is here – not only the SDP and the opposition that they have shown their dissatisfaction with the work of the Council of Ministers but it was a majority assessment of all MPs here in Parliament. We were even told from the positioning parties that the opposition was a treasure. I don't know what can be easier or can't, but here, when you start a Council of Ministers shift, I don't know what can be any easier than that. Now to return to this expressed dissatisfaction. We, counterpart Novaković, here in Parliament only two ways can we manifest our dissatisfaction with the work of the Council of Ministers. The first way, and this is a theoretical opportunity, to support this report on the work of the Council of Ministers, which implies and supports the Council of Ministers. Another way to turn down today's report on the work of the Council of Ministers, which implies the replacement of the BiH Council of Ministers. I must say for all those who are dissatisfied with the Council of Ministers that it is entirely illogical to support this report today and thus the Council of Ministers. kolega Novaković, there is no need for you to take such a dramatic view of the democratic act of elections and the shift of any government in both Europe and BiH. If that were the way your President Dragan Čavić had thought in 2006, the question of who and when would have come to power. According to this, it is democratic fluid and the appointment of the Council of Ministers and the shift of the Council of Ministers. However, with the change of 58 of the Council of Ministers, it would show me two messages, not for the present but for the future. What messages? First, that this Parliament and this country no longer want to tolerate unhappiness and obstruction and, secondly, to order future governments, which have been coming since October: gentlemen, if you are not doing well, you will be replaced because you are not doing well. I think it's really a perfectly normal thing, and here it is now a problem for us to change the Council of Ministers once in four years, and in the West, people change in one term three, four governments, and no problem. What's the problem here is changing people, let's have this parliamentary majority maybe some new people, who might make better steps than this Council of Ministers did. It would therefore be good to, in addition to all these assessments, especially highlight what is coming from Europe, which comes from the Council of Europe and to see how and how we will respect their reports and their assessments. If the solution to this House is to support this report for all this work, that is, the Council of Ministers' dissatisfaction today, and therefore this Council of Ministers, and it has the right to think and to speak, but the position of the SDP as an opposition party is that this is not how it goes, and I think this is the only real way out that...
ParlaMint-BA_2010-04-07-0.u34266	Replica, Honourable Ambassador Momčilo Novaković. Here you go.
ParlaMint-BA_2010-04-07-0.u34267	First of all, I want to apologize to Mr. Jovičić for reading what he writes. So I could also read what he didn't write, as he read what he didn't write, and then he would come to his conclusions. So, I read what it says, and it says what I read, that's what you could find there. Unfortunately, that's right, it's a picture. I agree that the reasons for this should be discussed by you who are making the Council of Ministers, you should look for the reasons why it is, but that, and that is the case, is the case. As for this fellow Bećirović, look out, I have to say that I did not realize that if I were against this report that I was in favour of the Council of Ministers. I realized that I was against the way this Council of Ministers works and the results they've achieved, and that's why I won't support this report, of course I won't support it. But I also don't think I need all my remarks that I have on the work of the Council of Ministers to seal by... what will be replaced and someone else will come and say, here, we now have six months, we've forgotten what this has done and the citizens will forget what this Council of Ministers has been doing and has not worked. This new one had no time to do anything, and even to continue what is good in this Council of Ministers, and whatever we are opposition, it is evident that there was something good in the Council of Ministers. And that's what we have to say, so there was something good. Is that the result of a reduction in the international community's criteria, a discount in BiH, respecting BiH's relations, I'm not talking about it. I'm not talking about why this agreement was signed, so I don't want to talk about it, I think it was a drop in BiH. I think the international community could have taken another step in making this liberalisation possible. But that, I mean, I'm afraid, it's just not just me and some other people might think so, but the international community and the people who decide there didn't think so. So, I don't think we've solved the problem, but on the contrary, I think we've created another problem for BiH if we would now resolve this Council of Ministers meeting, if we function without the Council of Ministers or with this Council of Ministers in the 59th technical mandate. I don't see that solution. Of course, you have the right to see him, as I do not see him, and we are both opposition.
ParlaMint-BA_2010-04-07-0.u34268	No more reports, and I'm closing the hearing. Dear MPs, in the framework of the debate on the Council of Ministers' work, we had proposals in terms of the need to appoint acting directors of the Agency for the Prevention of Corruption and Co-ordination of the fight against corruption. Our obligation is laid down by law, and that makes the BiH Parliamentary Assembly, a 90-day deadline from the date of entry into force of this law. He entered January 7th and the deadline expires on April 7th. As the end of the procedure for the appointment of three other members of the Agency's Selection and Monitoring Committee is under way, we have two opportunities to, I say, do a job as Parliament which is listed as another condition that we need to meet in order for BiH to get visa liberalisation. And these are to make urgent changes to the Anti-Corruption and Co-ordination Agency Act at the next session and allow the appointment of the perpetrators of the duties. Of course, everything must be done by another home or at today’s session, which we will be obliged to do at the next session to appoint the executive director of the Agency who will carry out these tasks until the procedure laid down in the law is completed. The Kolegijum's proposal was to oblige BiH's security minister to carry out the post until the director's appointment. I think it's one way out that the European Commission has the name of a man who's an employee of duty until it's over... That is why we in the College will make this kind of conclusion, and the next session will be appointed by the Minister of Security as the performer until the competition is completed and the last one is completed (meaning what they have now said, as if there is an obstacle) to the visa liberalisation obligation. Do you agree with that proposal? Dear Ambassador Dokić. Here you go.
ParlaMint-BA_2010-04-07-0.u34269	I won't end up against it or anything like that, but it seems to me that it would be more rational if you suggested that the deputy of the same ministry performs that function for the simple reason that we all know that the job of the deputy is incomparably smaller than the minister, so they will be able to be present. I don't really look at a name or a last name here, but if it pleases, I think it would be more rational.
ParlaMint-BA_2010-04-07-0.u34270	Mr. Dokić, we will suggest a conclusion to do this next session, and in the meantime, we can agree on who it will be. So we're going to conclude that we're going to appoint the next sessions, and we can also agree with the chairman of the Council of Ministers and with the Ministry of Security who could be the person who could do this. At 3:00 a.m. vote. 60 [[PAUZA]] Comrades and fellow MPs, please take your seats. I hope we're in full shape. Please, we're voting on the record from the 73rd session. Please prepare to vote. You can vote now! "For" is 30, "against" one, "sustained" was not. I understand we've adopted the record from the 73rd session. We're voting on the record from the 74th session. Prepare to vote. You can vote now! "For" was 32, "against" and "abstained" was not. I'm guessing we've adopted the 74th session record. Point 3. Proposal for a law on the protection of geographical indications – Proposer: Council of Ministers of BiH (second reading). It's a vote on the draft law in the second reading. Please prepare to vote. You can vote now! "For" was 32, "against" and "abstained" was not. I find that we have passed a law on the protection of geographical indications. Point 4. Proposal for a Law on the Protection of Topography of Integrated Cars – Proposer: Council of Ministers of BiH (second reading). We're voting on the draft law in the second reading. Please prepare to vote. You can vote now! "For" was 34, "against" and "abstained" was not. I find that we have passed a law on the protection of topography of an integrated car. Point 5. Proposal for a Law on Industrial Design – Proposer: Council of Ministers of BiH (second reading). It's a vote on the draft law in the second reading. Please prepare to vote. You can vote now! "For" was 36, "against" and "abstained" was not. 61 I find that we have passed a bill on industrial design. Point 6. Proposal for a Mark Act – Proposer: Council of Ministers of BiH (second reading). It's a vote on the draft law in the second reading. Please prepare to vote. You can vote now! "For" was 34, "against" and "abstained" was not. I understand we've passed the bill on the stamp. Point 7. Proposal for a patent law – Proposer: Council of Ministers of BiH (second reading). It's a vote on the draft law in the second reading. Please prepare to vote. You can vote now! "For" was 36, "against" and "abstained" was not. I understand we've passed the patent law. Point 8. Proposal for a law amending and supplementing Bosnia and Herzegovina's Election Law – Proposers: MEPs Milorad Živković, Niko Lozančić and Šefik Džaferović (second reading). The vote is on the amendments of Vink Zorić. There are four amendments to be defended again. Please prepare to vote. He's voting on amandman I.. You can vote now! “For” is three, “against” 18, “sustained” 11. This amendment has not been supported. We vote on amandman II.. Prepare to vote. You can vote now! “For” is five, “against” 18, “sustained” 14. This amendment was not supported either. We move to a vote on amandman III.. Please prepare to vote. You can vote now. “For” is two, “against” 18, “sustained” 16. He did not receive the support of amandman III.. We vote on amandman iv.e. Please prepare to vote. You can vote now! 62 "For" is four, "against" 18, "abstained" 15. He did not receive support or amandman iv.e. We're voting on the draft law in the second reading. Please prepare to vote. You can vote now! "For" is 28, "against" four, "sustained" five. I find that we have adopted amendments and additions to the Electoral Law in the second reading. Point 9. Proposal for a Law amending the Law on Public Procurement of Bosnia and Herzegovina – Proposer: Constitutional Commission (second reading). We're voting on the draft law in the second reading. Please prepare to vote. You can vote, now. "For" is 35, "against" was not, "abstained" two. I find that we have adopted a bill amending the Law on Public Procurement in a second reading. Point 10. The Joint Commission's report on the achievement of agreement on the identical text of the Bosnia and Herzegovina tobacco law. We're voting for adoption of the report. Please prepare to vote. You can vote now! "For" is 32, "against" was not, "sustained" two. I find that we have adopted this report from our joint commission. Point 11. Commission report to the College on the effort to reach agreement on the draft law amending and supplementing the Law on Customs Policy of Bosnia and Herzegovina – Proposer: Council of Ministers of BiH (second reading). We vote in the second round on the draft law in the second reading. Please prepare to vote. You can vote now. “For” is 21, “against” five, “sustained” 11. Insufficient two-thirds of the votes "against". I find that we have passed the Customs Policy Act in the second reading. Point 12. The Commission's report to the College on the effort to reach agreement on the Opinion of the Constitutional Legal Commission on Amendments II, III and IV to the Constitution of Bosnia and Herzegovina - Proposers: Members of the Party for Bosnia and Herzegovina (alignments in first reading). We vote in the second round on the Opinion of the Constitutional Legal Commission on amandman II.. 63 moliti prepare to vote. You can vote now! The Commission's opinion was negative. "For" is 19, "against" seven, "remained" nine. Insufficient entity support from the Federation of BiH.
ParlaMint-BA_2010-04-07-0.u34272	No, no, this is the second round.
ParlaMint-BA_2010-04-07-0.u34273	And this is the second round of voting?
ParlaMint-BA_2010-04-07-0.u34274	Round two. There are not enough votes "against", it was accepted.
ParlaMint-BA_2010-04-07-0.u34275	So there are not enough votes “against. ” Do you want to do it again, do it again, do it again? I'm asking you to repeat the vote. You can vote now! "For" is 20, "against" seven, "sustained" 11. Not enough two-thirds of the Federation. So amandman II. has fallen. We vote in the second round on the Opinion of the Constitutional Legal Commission on amandman III.. Please prepare to vote. You can vote now! All the same as the last amendment. "For" is 19, "against" seven, "abstained" 12. Not enough two thirds “against. ” I find that this amendment has not been adopted, too. We vote in the second round on the Opinion of the Constitutional Legal Commission on amandman iv.e. Please prepare to vote. You can vote now. "For" is 20, "against" 16, "remained" two. Not enough two thirds “against. ” And this amendment has not passed. Point 13. A report on the work of the Council of Ministers of Bosnia and Herzegovina for 2009 – the material of the Council of Ministers of BiH. We are voting on the adoption of this report with observations and conclusions from the opinion of our committees.
ParlaMint-BA_2010-04-07-0.u34276	May I?
ParlaMint-BA_2010-04-07-0.u34277	Here you go. 64
ParlaMint-BA_2010-04-07-0.u34278	I think you should put it on because the SDP Club has delivered five conclusions and we are asking from 1st to 5th to make a statement on these conclusions, and then, of course, this report. That's the procedure.
ParlaMint-BA_2010-04-07-0.u34279	Okay. To speed up the procedure, do you agree that we are voting on all the conclusions at once?
ParlaMint-BA_2010-04-07-0.u34280	Individually.
ParlaMint-BA_2010-04-07-0.u34281	And you want to do it individually? Okay. Do we agree to vote on that?
ParlaMint-BA_2010-04-07-0.u34282	You got it.
ParlaMint-BA_2010-04-07-0.u34283	microphone not enabled
ParlaMint-BA_2010-04-07-0.u34284	We are voting on Parliamentarian Denis Bećirović's predlog to conclude under number 1. Is there any need for me to read that? _________ No. Okay, thanks. You can vote now! “For” is eight, “against” 26, “sustained” three. I'm guessing the number one conclusion didn't go through. We move to vote on conclusion number 2. Please prepare to vote. You can vote now! "For" is nine, "against" 26, "sustained" three. I find conclusion number two not accepted. 65 We move to vote on conclusion number 3. Please prepare to vote. You can vote now! "For" is 24, "against" 11, "remained" two. I realize we've adopted this conclusion. We're going to vote on conclusion number four. Please prepare to vote. You can vote now! "For" is six, "against" 27, "sustained" three. I find this conclusion has not passed. And last, best, we vote on conclusion number five. Prepare to vote. You can vote now! "For" is four, "against" 28, "remained" five. I find that no conclusion has been adopted. We vote on the adoption of the report on the work of the BiH Council of Ministers, with observations and conclusions and opinions from the commissions. Please prepare to vote. You can vote now! "For" is 24, "against" nine, "sustained" three. I find that we have adopted a report on the work of the Council of Ministers, with the opinions of the committee. We vote on the conclusion of the House College, which reads: 'The House of Representatives undertakes to appoint the Executive Director of the Agency for the Prevention of Corruption and Co-ordination of the fight against corruption to carry out these tasks until the appointment of the Director.' Please prepare to vote. You can vote now! "For" is 34, "against" was not, "sustained" two. I understand we've adopted the Kolegijum's zaključak. Point 14. A report on the work of Bosnia and Herzegovina's parliamentary military commissioner for the October-December 2009 period, the parliamentary military commissioner's material. We're voting on the adoption of this report. Please prepare to vote. You can vote now! "For" is 36, "against" was not, "sustained" two. I understand that we have adopted the report on the work of the parliamentary military commissioner. 66 Point 15. The debate on the conclusions of the European Union General and External Affairs Council on Bosnia and Herzegovina and Operation ALTHEA (EUFOR) – the Commission's proposal for external affairs, Glasmo on the conclusion of the Foreign Affairs Commission, which reads: 'It is proposed to the House of Representatives to take these documents into account and to invite all competent institutions to fulfil the obligations set out in these documents.' Please prepare to vote. You can vote now! "For" is 36, "against" was not, "sustained" two. I realize we've adopted this conclusion. Point 16. The Commission’s report to the College on the effort to reach agreement on Opinion No 2. Foreign Affairs Commission at the 74th House session on the 2009 Report on the activities of the Council of Europe. Only in the second round on Opinion No 2. Foreign Affairs Commission. Please prepare to vote. You can vote now! "For" is 23, "against" 11, "remained" four. I find this conclusion has not passed. Point 17. The Commission's report to the College on the effort to reach agreement on the SDP Club's proposal to conclude the SDP MPs with the 74th session of the House on the motion for a resolution on the importance of condemnation of genocide in Srebrenica and war crimes in BiH to build permanent peace. The proposal for a conclusion reads: 'Resolution shall be treated as a first reading, and any corrections and improvement of text shall be made through the amendment phase.' Please prepare to vote. You can vote now! _________________
ParlaMint-BA_2010-04-07-0.u34287	Two... Agreeing, first round.
ParlaMint-BA_2010-04-07-0.u34288	What? Yes, two “against. ” Excuse me, there's a first-round vote here. We can go to the second round. Please prepare to vote. Vote now! "For" is 26, "against" 12, "abstained" was not. I realize we haven't adopted the motion for a resolution.
ParlaMint-BA_2010-04-07-0.u34289	No microphone turned on
ParlaMint-BA_2010-04-07-0.u34290	Business intervention. Here you go.
ParlaMint-BA_2010-04-07-0.u34291	On behalf of the SDP Club, we would like to inform you that such a vote and refusal of this resolution is an insult to all Bosniak, Serbian, Croatian and other victims in this country.
ParlaMint-BA_2010-04-07-0.u34292	You just got a warning.
ParlaMint-BA_2010-04-07-0.u34293	And this is the line of the divide.
ParlaMint-BA_2010-04-07-0.u34294	You just got a warning.
ParlaMint-BA_2010-04-07-0.u34295	We're leaving this session, Mr. Chairman,
ParlaMint-BA_2010-04-07-0.u34296	Go ahead. 68
ParlaMint-BA_2010-04-07-0.u34297	And let him warn you of the people and all the sacrifices in this land.
ParlaMint-BA_2010-04-07-0.u34298	Okay.
ParlaMint-BA_2010-04-07-0.u34299	We invite everyone else to leave this session at the moment.
ParlaMint-BA_2010-04-07-0.u34300	We still have to vote on one item on the agenda. Point 18. Giving consent to ratification. Please let us agree to vote in a package of a) to g). Prepare to vote. Glasm just means in a package from a) to g). You can vote now! “For” is 32, “against” one, “sustained” was not. I find that we have given consent to ratification from a) to g). I hereby conclude the session and note that the 76th session is scheduled for 21 April. Thank you for your cooperation. The session is over at 3:30.
