ParlaMint-BA_2010-03-23-0.u33338	Comrades and fellow MPs, please take your seats, continue the 73rd session of the House of Representatives. At the session, we invited regular guests. I welcome all present MPs and media representatives. According to service information, 31 MPs are present. The absence was justified by MPs: Savo Erić and Lazar Prodanović. I understand we have a quorum for full-time work. I remind you, at last session, we finished the debate on item 17. So now we're going to point 18. Ad. 18. Proposal for a law on amendments and additions to Bosnia and Herzegovina's Election Law, Proponents: MEPs Milorad Živković, Niko Lozančić and Šefik Džaferović, Law No: 01-02-9/10 of 10. 2. 2010 (first reading) MPs Niko Lozančić, Beriz Belkić, Milorad Živković, submitted this law to the ordinary legislative procedure 10. 2. 2010 The relevant Constitutional Commission Opinion on constitutional basis and principles delivered 24. 2. The Directorate for European Integration delivered Opinion 4. 3. 2010 I'm opening a debate on the bill in the first reading. I just wanted to see if you were focused. So it's not about Beriz Belkić, it's about Šefik Džaferović, but good. I'm opening a debate. Here you go. Dear Ambassador Remzija Kadrić, please.
ParlaMint-BA_2010-03-23-0.u33340	I thank you, Chairman. In the light of this law under 2. The reason for the adoption of this law on amendments and amendments to the Electoral Law is, among other things: 'At the time of the implementation of the provisions of the BiH Election Law, certain shortcomings have been identified, which were presented to the Parliamentary Assembly in the Report on Law Implementation in the 2 responsibilities of the Central Election Commission for 2009... which were indicated by citizens, authorities and institutions.' So, and later.... in these further explanations mostly in most cases is said to have tried to correct certain technical disadvantages of the law still. We had... during the work of the Interresor Working Group many initiatives, enough remarks, requests to make certain root changes to the Election Law and known... __________________________ [[no microphone turned on]] What? __________________ [[no microphone turned on]]
ParlaMint-BA_2010-03-23-0.u33343	Thank you. Dear Ambassador Momčilo Novaković. Here you go.
ParlaMint-BA_2010-03-23-0.u33344	Thank you, Mr. Chairman. Here I will speak very briefly only of two members of this law, those are Articles 32 and 33. Article 32, which amends Article 1614, which speaks in the position (5) on paid advertising in public media. In fact, the current Electoral Law has defined that public electronic media will enable the means for all entities paid for up to 30 minutes a week. The new member is talking about 60 minutes a week. In my opinion, it would be more logical if public electronic media were free of charge than free of charge to all political parties participating in the elections and giving independent candidates certain terms. Because I don't see the role then in the right sense, the role of the public media that needs to be at the service of informing citizens, and who are already paying, means through the TV subscription that it also means taking political parties to inform citizens about their programmes, I repeat, on public electronic media. What seems more problematic to me than this is the amendment of Article 33, or Article 16.15, which practically should enable private media, electronic media, to broadcast unlimitedly paid terms for political parties. In other words, the political parties that are in power, and especially the larger political parties, are thus favored through an unlimited number, a time-observed, unlimited number of terms during the week, in this case in general, loses the sense (1) that private electronic media under equal conditions will allow. Watch out, what does the possibility mean under equal conditions and unlimited? So there are no conditions if it's unlimited, then it's unlimited, and there are no conditions. Whoever has money will pay, whoever doesn't have money will pay less or won't pay at all, etc. I don't think this is any progress in democracy. They may agree that existing solutions in the law have given insufficient, or too little time, but they cannot agree that this time can be unlimited. I mean, if it was 60 minutes, and it is 60 minutes a week, I don't mind helping the media this way, so instead of 60 minutes a week, neither do I, it's 120 minutes a week. But that it's unlimited, that it's unlimited, really doesn't make sense. I will, of course, also act as an amendment in this direction, but I would also like to ask my fellow promoters, who have proposed this law, to reconsider once again the effect of this article, or the consequences of the application of this article. Thank you. 4
ParlaMint-BA_2010-03-23-0.u33345	Correction of an incorrect quote, the Honorable Chairman, Dr. Milorad Živković.
ParlaMint-BA_2010-03-23-0.u33346	Thank you. Here's what I'd like to say from this phone booth is that it's a law in first reading, so it's a good idea to talk about principles and leave the story of amendments in second reading. But here are the two amendments that the members refer to. Simply, in your discussion of Article 33, the amendment at 6.15 was said not to allow all parties to participate in the promotion under the same conditions. Simply, conditions were applied at the same price for everyone to be allowed to attend in this way. Of course those who have more money will be able to advertise more at this point. But exactly the media from Prnjavor came a memo and it was asked not to restrict access to such one advertising. So here we went meeting some and I think it was a requirement for all private media in BiH not to restrict access. And I support your discussion of article 32 over article 6.14. ... when it comes to public television services where they have the same access to marketing as private services and in that game, and they need to grab some money, that elections are the time when political marketing gives and delivers certain funds, but that those as public broadcasters, who receive and through the tv tax certain part of the money for their broadcast, should be part of the programme and that part should be listed in minutes or hours as long as they set out for free advertising of all parties that have applied for the elections. This would also give you public broadcasters to keep those who do not have the money in this campaign evenly distributed. But they also don't need to be taken away from this other part of political marketing, where they would set the price for advertising on these public services. Dear Ambassador Momčilo Novaković, replica. Here you go.
ParlaMint-BA_2010-03-23-0.u33347	So I have to say, I haven't really spoken locally, especially not about certain media, or the media from Prnjavor. I must say, it's a very interesting concern for private media in the last year in RS. I'm just thrilled how much the government takes care of the private media, so if this is a continuation of that RS donation policy, then I understand it. Maybe that's what I should have called it, and then I would've figured it out so I wouldn't even be discussing it this way. I've said and I repeat, so I don't mind having doubled the number of minutes, and I think it would help the private media to make a little more money in this campaign, if it's the goal of having these private media campaigns going on once in two years. But I don't think it's properly unlimited, I was talking about unlimited, so unlimitedly paid term isn't, I don't think it's democratic. Let's not talk about correctness, is correctness often times, or, almost always in the campaign loses, but it's not democratic that the media... political parties that have more money, and 5 have more money because they are in power or in some other way came to a couple, a controversial way; there are no colleagues in Bahtić, so he would say that SDP is not in power, but in a controversial way came to the money. So, some others who have come to the money in some other way can now practically perform unlimitedly in private media. I was talking about it, I still think that no matter who asked the media for it, from the task force, that the task force could have partially complied with that request and nothing else. Thank you.
ParlaMint-BA_2010-03-23-0.u33348	Replica response, Honorable Chairman, Dr. Milorad Živković.
ParlaMint-BA_2010-03-23-0.u33349	I hope you heard the second part of my discussion that referred to the complaint for the first member and the relationship of the public media and free advertising, and that's where I supported you in that part. The support of private media, the Public Service, about how some parties do it before and now some new parties do it, we can discuss it here. However, the fact is that in case, say, hypothetically, some parties or all parties pay them all day long that they only advertise the parties – what would turn them into and who would look at those services. So they will have to measure how they will adapt their programme to a political pre-election campaign. Therefore, I think that request was justified. Whether it is necessary to limit whether it is democratic to limit private services and media, we can talk about it. We asked the Regulatory Agency to deliver its opinion, they had no objection to that. Dear Ambassador Denis Bećirović, replica. Here you go.
ParlaMint-BA_2010-03-23-0.u33350	I'll do it very briefly. I would ask a colleague, Novaković, that the name of the Social Democratic Party of BiH does not in any way lead to something disputed with the property, etc. All of this has been made very clear by the competent judicial authorities, therefore there is no need for even secondary insinuations to trouble the issue in any way. Otherwise, we'll start talking here about everything that's been disputed, and then the story won't be at all pleasant.
ParlaMint-BA_2010-03-23-0.u33351	Mr. Lozančić, discussion. 6
ParlaMint-BA_2010-03-23-0.u33352	Thank you. Ladies and gentlemen, MPs and distinguished members of the Council of Ministers, honored guests, here I am going to give a few notes to try in a certain way, and perhaps we should at first here we members of the working group as legislators of this law say a few words. So you know that on the initiative of the Central Election Commission, this House and the second House founded an Interresor Working Group in which three representatives of this House were from the House of Peoples, three members of the Council of Ministers and three members of the Central Election Commission. The Central Election Commission presented to the Interresor Working Group the need to amend one part of the provisions of the current Electoral Law which, in the implementation of this law, create difficulties for them in fulfilling their obligations. We have called this part of the amendment of the Electoral Law workingly on the technical changes of the Election Law, and in most of the part you have here today as a proposal for amendments and additions. The other part concerning political issues in the electoral legislation, which it certainly has in each election legislation, was a little harder. And here I am trying to... in a certain way to spare all of us and you that here we are unnecessarily entering major debates, so to speak. It was a matter of closed and open lists, it was a matter of minimum and maximum ethnic representation, it was a matter of passive and active registration. There have been a whole series of other issues, but what you have in front of you today is what got the passage into the Interresor Working Group and why it is expected to be possible to secure a passage here and at the House of Representatives and the House of Peoples of the Parliamentary Assembly. I personally am not too satisfied with all these solutions, but I also appreciate that the solutions offered are better than the existing ones, and that they will probably need to work in the future to identify those issues that we have identified as political issues in the Election Law, when political will exists, in a better way. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-BA_2010-03-23-0.u33353	Mr. Vinko Zorić, discussion.
ParlaMint-BA_2010-03-23-0.u33354	Thank you, Mr. Chairman. I welcome my colleagues and colleagues, members of the Council of Ministers. I'll be very brief. I don't think the promoter answered what he was supposed to answer, so I think very small changes have been made, if not, and cosmetic amendments to the Electoral Law. I think the Electoral Law should have changed a lot more and better. Of course, this is the first reading and we are discussing the principles of this law and I am not going to talk about certain solutions that are unscheduled, especially in Article 12, unspeakable and unskilled, in my opinion. But that's why I'm going to suggest one conclusion. I will support in the first reading and the party to which I belong this amendment and the addition of the Election Law, however, because of the need for elections and because of making the quality of the elections in BiH, especially these general ones, I will propose one conclusion, with a 7 note that I care about what quality election law is, although I will not personally participate in the elections this year, but I think it is very good for BiH to have a better election law. I'll also mention here on the way here that it's not good to make out of municipal election committees small gods, and that's what Article 12 just says. It is also not good that Article 12 has not been quality-solved for those who do not receive the certificates and how long these procedures will take for the vice president and when they will receive the certificates, how to fill them out if, therefore, those who fail in that study. So it's imagined kind of imaginary as if it's going to be at that checkup, and it seems to me that it was better to write here: it's going to be a check-up form and a form of some kind of seminar and there's all going to be passed. So, why write it in law? But here I won't, I said, on the details, I suggest the following conclusion: 'The electoral law may be amended whether these amendments are related to the amendments and the amendments proposed in this item of the agenda.' So, this is the proposal of my conclusion and I propose to this high home to support this conclusion so that we can change the electoral law and make this electoral law that will be applied in October of this year. Thank you.
ParlaMint-BA_2010-03-23-0.u33355	I thank you, too. Mirko Okolić, discussion. Here you go.
ParlaMint-BA_2010-03-23-0.u33356	Thank you, Mr. Chairman. This is the first reading today, and we should talk about the principles that we say, but that's my suggestion, but after this discussion, since others are... for the essence, but very briefly, am I taking the right to say something to myself if they are others. Okay, I'm kidding. I will also look back at Article 33 where Article 16.15 is changed. Election law. Here's what my objection is, and if we support these principles today, which I hope we will, I'll put an amendment on behalf of the SDS. And this is the following: so private electronic media is allowed without restrictions, which is on one side of the office. But on the other hand, it's not the office if we look at it practically what can happen, and that's to say, it's a maximum of 24 hours of the program to rent in one day, it's theoretical. And what happens if a party comes into a private electronic medium and says, "How much space do you have for the leased election time?" Examples work, eight hours, eh -- give me eight hours right now. I pay eight hours, or that party and pay 15 days or 30 days or 8 or 10 days, it doesn't matter at all, and then there's no equality, but it's the one who's the first girl his girlfriend is the first, and the last one's his girlfriend, you know. 8 Therefore, it is safe to act as an amendment, for this can happen which I have now spoken of may not all come, under quotes, to receive the leased term in the private electronic media. Thank you.
ParlaMint-BA_2010-03-23-0.u33357	Under the same conditions, it's said.
ParlaMint-BA_2010-03-23-0.u33358	...are not the same conditions, how I can be the same if I come today. How much do you have? Eight hours. Give it all eight hours. The second party comes tomorrow and says, "How much do you have?" He says we've got eight hours, but it's all sold. These aren't the same conditions.
ParlaMint-BA_2010-03-23-0.u33359	Thank you. Dear Ambassador Šefik Džaferović, please.
ParlaMint-BA_2010-03-23-0.u33360	Mr. Chairman, colleagues and colleagues, this is a law that results from consensus within the Interresor Working Group. So the entire Electoral Law and many issues of political nature were on the agenda, of course there was no agreement within the Interresor Working Group. And what has arrived is the result of the consent of all of us who were there in that group, which does not mean that some of the solutions offered will not be treated differently in the amendment phase, but about that. What I mean is that we are large topics – such as: whose mandate is whether the candidate or party, whether the list is open or closed, whether the electoral threshold is one or the other – ends within the Interresor Working Group. And the subject matter of debate here in Parlamettne can only be what was offered through this law, so both the rules and the subject matter of the amendment can be just what was offered through the Election Law, such are the rules. Anything else can be the subject of another new text, this text simply endures only what is stated in it. That's it, thank you.
ParlaMint-BA_2010-03-23-0.u33361	Thank you. Replica, honourable Ambassador Vinko Zorić. Here you go. 9
ParlaMint-BA_2010-03-23-0.u33362	Well, I wouldn't be as categorical as my colleague, Šefik Džaferović, performed. I think it may be the subject of what this home concludes. I think that the House is older than the Interresor Working Group and the Šefik Džaferović and myself, I don't think it should be this exclusive and prejudge the solutions of this home. If Dom refuses my conclusion, of course it will be as he says. And if Dom accepts my conclusion, then it will be as I suggested. So we won't reconsider, let's wait for the vote. Don't, Mr. Džaferović, impose your opinions on this home, let it go. I asked you to support my conclusion, you asked me not to support it, but don't say it won't be as it says in this conclusion. We'll see if he does. __________________ [[no microphone turned on]] Okay, thank you.
ParlaMint-BA_2010-03-23-0.u33364	Thank you. Replica, Honourable Ambassador Momčilo Novaković. Here you go. It is that back hurts, but...
ParlaMint-BA_2010-03-23-0.u33365	Here's 'cause all the happiness I have no more rights to replicas, and then I won't get up again, I'll save my back. Well, you see, first of all, I don't think Mr. Zorić's proposal for a conclusion should be put to the vote at all. In fact, we can't change the documents that we adopted here in some kind of procedure. We're looking at a situation where we're now changing our rules of procedure, interpreting committees, etc. One conclusion. So, I agree that we open the procedure and we do this interpretation, but in the process, I don't make a single conclusion at Parliament. So me first because it's not possible to change something in the law that isn't even in the law. That makes sense one, so if you have something in the law, you can change what's in your law, and this is about changing this law. So here I am calling on the College not to propose this conclusion at all.
ParlaMint-BA_2010-03-23-0.u33366	Thank you. Dear Ambassador Šefik Džaferović, replica. Here you go. 10
ParlaMint-BA_2010-03-23-0.u33367	I mean, we just need to sort things out. I mean, there's no need to label it now as it will be, whether it's going to be the way in Parliament, as Šefik says or what Vinko says or, it's going to be what Dom decides, I think. But on the basis of the Dom procedures, it's decided and Dom has a framework in which it can move. And in this case, the framework is the Constitution, the framework is the Rules of Procedure and the framework is the Single Rules of Law. According to the current regulation, this cannot be put to a vote because it is contrary to the Single Rules, but it is possible for the House to amend the Single Rules, it is possible, but only after the Single Rules change can your conclusion be put to the vote and decide on it. That's it, thank you.
ParlaMint-BA_2010-03-23-0.u33368	Thank you. Dear Ambassador Martin Raguž, replica. Here you go.
ParlaMint-BA_2010-03-23-0.u33369	Replica to Honourable representative Momčilo Novaković. So, we've been listening enough here, at least I've been listening for eight years, what can't and how can't. And I cannot this time when the election law is on the agenda and it is the responsibility of this Parliament to come up with electoral solutions that should mean the quality of the electoral regulation to accept that, again, it cannot, because that is the case. I can't and I don't want to accept it on behalf of the club that I represent, and we'll never accept it, because this house has the legitimate right to make decisions, to change and to accept the conclusions it has made and the rules of procedure as it has done a million times. And here was the essence of whether Mr Zorić's proposal is in the function of improving the text of the elections, not whether something formal can or can't.
ParlaMint-BA_2010-03-23-0.u33370	Thank you. Dear Ambassador Vinko Zorić, respond to the replica. Here you go.
ParlaMint-BA_2010-03-23-0.u33371	Mr. Chairman, have you checked whether 103, you haven't watched anyone in so long, I've never called without having the right to do so?
ParlaMint-BA_2010-03-23-0.u33372	I don't see, I don't see why this anxiety, I just didn't say anything. 11
ParlaMint-BA_2010-03-23-0.u33373	First, this is not my proposal but a proposal from the Committee on Gender Equality which I forgot to mention earlier, but I will only remind this high house and everyone who listens to me that Mr. Šefik Džaferović was a member of the College when after the vote of one of the laws, after three points of the agenda he returned to the intervention of one of the MPs to express suspicion, but after three laws he again gave it to the vote and that law was... Was it then a violation of the Rules of Procedure or not? It was in the last session when Mr. Džaferović was sitting upstairs. I say if this home adopts my conclusion, then it's possible, it's not changing the Rules of Procedure, it's making exceptions. And this isn't the first time that it would have affected some changes and additions... and that just... was treated by what was proposed by changes and additions. It's not the first time, so check it out and you'll see. I don't have the right to reply anymore, of course, but don't, when I was the president of the municipality, then I called all the community lawyers and I said, "You should do that too." They all said to me, 'No, you can't.' I say, "For I can't need you at all, I can't do it alone, I can't." After an hour, one comes and says, "It could be this way." That's what I need. I need a high-quality Electoral Law, one who doesn't need to be told he can't.
ParlaMint-BA_2010-03-23-0.u33374	Thank you. It's just that... you can still report as a business intervention, because we're simply discussing the Rules of Procedure and procedures, we're not discussing this law. If anyone raises that question again, feel free to report as a business intervention. Dear Ambassador Branko Dokić. Here you go.
ParlaMint-BA_2010-03-23-0.u33375	Thank you, Mr. Chairman. Ladies and gentlemen of the Parliament, at the very beginning, I would like to say that the Interresor Working Group has done one, I would say, much work, that there are good solutions here, there are solutions that need to be changed and corrected. But here's to define myself on this point, namely this proposal by Mr Zorić. In the context of a public debate and after a public debate, considering amendments to the Transport Safety Bill, we are also told that only amendments to amendments can be treated. And I have to tell you that here in front of the last session I was looking for where it says it in the Rules of Procedure and that no one could find me to write it in the Rules of Procedure. So it doesn't say that in the Rules of Procedure, even though the legal department that provides and provides logistics to the Transport and Communications Commission said so, but that it is some practice in the House. So it's a practice. This practice is here twice, and they also told me examples, broken in the House of Peoples, when they agreed to do otherwise, so from that point of view, here, I will personally support this proposal to enable it to act in the amendment phase and to what is not covered by these amendments, so if these amendments are good, I think it can be beneficial for everyone. 12 However, I am optimistic and sincerely believe that we will have one more time, relatively quickly on the agenda of the Election Law, because I still want to believe that we will be so serious and that our Constitution will be brought into line with the European Convention on Human Rights and Freedoms, or that we will meet the requirements of the European Court ruling, which will require amendments to the Election Law, so there will be an opportunity to do so if something is missed by the amendment. I want to announce here that I will have an amendment to this media representation on commercial media, with all due respect to the fact that commercial media should be given more freedom than they've had so far, they're working to earn and this is an excellent opportunity for them to earn, but they really need to find a measure there. On that part of Novaković's sentence when he says 'who has the money he will participate', I would add 'if there is no money he will have the opportunity to watch those who participate'. I think it would be a completely unfair campaign, and I'm saying, if I don't explain it now, I'm going to have an amendment to that subject with respect to the fact that commercial media really needs to be more involved, but with some measure. Thank you.
ParlaMint-BA_2010-03-23-0.u33376	Thank you. Replica, Reverend Mirko Okolić. Here you go.
ParlaMint-BA_2010-03-23-0.u33377	Oh, I'll be very brief. Replica, let's also support the conclusion of Mr Zorić and those who do not support it, that we are no longer having a discussion for two reasons. First, because of the principle, and secondly, there's no need, but we'll make it clear if the College decides to put it to a vote, we'll make it clear that we're going to do more concrete and important things about this law. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-BA_2010-03-23-0.u33378	Dear Ambassador Halid Genjac. Here you go.
ParlaMint-BA_2010-03-23-0.u33379	Thank you, Chairman. We, of course, have the first reading of this principle law, and whatever the ambition of the Interresor Working Group was far broader remains on, I would say, solving issues that have less importance or technical significance, if it can be talked about less and greater importance. Maybe that's why the concentration went down a little bit. Since it has been focused on these larger and more difficult issues, I think that when it comes to principles, however, a few principles have been introduced by this law that should be considered and to which it will be necessary to react. 13 First of all, interventions under Article 2.19 introduce the principle that if the municipal electoral commission cannot appoint the president and members of the electoral committee and their deputies on the basis of a proposal from political entities, they will be appointed from a record of the composition and work of the earlier election committees that it holds. So the principle is that by drawing on the party's proposal it is done and here the principle is introduced that the municipal electoral commissions can now do so if they can't do so on the basis of the draw proposals. It's not explained in which cases, when it can't. Is it... opening up the possibility by this principle that municipal electoral commissions sometimes abuse this indeterminateness? I think the question should be precise – when and how. The next thing is... a rather delicate question, because the municipal electoral committees under the influence of certain political parties can appoint municipal and electoral committees on the pretext that they can't make a proposal for political parties, and then they will nominate from earlier groups whatever they want – a very dangerous situation. So, potentially dangerous. The next thing I think is to be careful when it comes to the registration of citizens who have BiH refugee status. Earlier it was a continuous process that was conducted under certain rules, the principle is now being introduced that the Central Election Commission is notifying the refusal to apply on the website and that the voter who is registered has 48 hours to file a complaint. It is one principle that is very problematic, because in 48 hours refugees outside – whether they will see it on the Internet, etc. and whether or not, a very short deadline, a very problematic deadline. And of course, this principle that introduces unlimitedness on commercial media, I think that the principle that introduces into one area that is more deregulation than regulation of the media scene, and I think it's going to need regulation. Thank you.
ParlaMint-BA_2010-03-23-0.u33380	Thank you. Dear Professor Ekrem Ajanović. Here you go.
ParlaMint-BA_2010-03-23-0.u33381	Mr. President, colleagues and colleagues, my predecessors have said a lot of things that I absolutely agree with. He would specifically point out Mr. Remzija Kadrić, Novaković, Zorić and Genjac in the end. This is where I reported the most to set certain clarifications or by the way to introduce whether the law is in line with certain principles and legal systems. He would particularly apostrophe some members, among other things, mentioned by Dr Genjac, that is Article 13(10), where it is explicitly said that the Election Commission through the website will exchange data and discuss with certain applicants. I think it's inadmissible for a number of reasons. One reason is that citizens are placed in an unequal position. The question arises whether one who has the right to vote, who unfortunately does not have the internet, is being denied the possibility of being included in the voter's list. And the other thing is, I don't think our 14 legislation has yet introduced that principle that... official answers are given only via the Internet, or via the website. And I think I'm being asked this law. With that, I would add, it may be premature, because I hope it will be quick to change this law again if we respect certain provisions that exist. And in the end, I would end up with this proposal of a conclusion given by Vinko Zorić all the way to support it. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-BA_2010-03-23-0.u33382	Thank you. Dear Ambassador Remzija Kadrić, replica. Here you go.
ParlaMint-BA_2010-03-23-0.u33383	I thank you, Chairman. So, when it comes to the principles of this law, which I was talking about, the action of intervention on this Article 3.15, and what Dr Genjac spoke about, so what is the paper in this Article 3.15 when it comes to principles: a special item was added, among other things, the Electoral Commission will warn voters about the shortcomings in the application via its website etc. The CEC's decision to refuse to apply for a vote outside BiH could be objected to by the CEC. So these are the principles when it comes to this Article 3.15. It is necessary to read Article 3.15 and other members, I have talked about this discrimination on active and passive registration. Indeed, this is humiliating and inadmissible in my view: if the Interresor Working Group was to act on Article 3.15, it should have acted in a principled way. The second question is, it should have been said, why not because an analysis of the election units is being conducted before each election. And here there is one Interresor Working Group report missing to say that there have been discussions on many key issues, no consensus and consensus has been reached, but that Parliament knows what this is all about. So this... is beneath every principle when it comes to this key member, which is a member of 3.15th law that should have been acted on at least as minimally, at least in principle as much as the principles until the law is passed.
ParlaMint-BA_2010-03-23-0.u33384	Thank you. No more reports. 15 We conclude the debate and move to the 19th point of the agenda: Ad. 19. Proposal for a law on the holidays of Bosnia and Herzegovina, Proposer: MP Denis Bećirović, Law No: 01-02-9-13/10 of 2. 2. 2010 (first reading) Ambassador Denis Bećirović passed the law in a regular parliamentary procedure 2. 2. The respective Constitutional Legal Commission has delivered its opinion on the constitutional basis and principles 24. 2. Directorate for European Integration Opinion delivered 17. 2. Today we also received the opinion of the Council of Ministers sent to us by the Ministry of Civil Affairs, I hope you have that opinion as well. I'm opening a debate on the draft law in my first reading. Dear Ambassador Denis Bećirović. Here you go.
ParlaMint-BA_2010-03-23-0.u33386	The respected chairman, esteemed colleagues and colleagues, esteemed guests, representatives of the Council of Ministers and the media, is absolutely certain that there is a need for the BiH Parliamentary Assembly to build legislative solutions related to the holidays in BiH. So, not to pass a new law, but to build up legal solutions. Just from that, we at the SDP Club of BiH and have proposed today, among other things, this law on the holidays of BiH. The law is therefore fundamentally different from that proposed by the Council of Ministers in parliamentary procedure because the Council of Ministers stated that there is currently no law in BiH on holidays, which is absolutely not true and what is not difficult to prove. We currently have legal solutions in BiH on holidays, and there are currently two national holidays in BiH legally. It is March 1st, BiH Independence Day, and November 25th, BiH Statehood Day. So even in Dayton, to call it that, in 1995, the BiH Parliament adopted legal solutions and declared March 1st on Independence Day and November 25th on Statehood Days. The law exists and the law still remains in the BiH Parliamentary Assembly. The second question is why the two holidays are still not marked in the smaller BiH area, but it is a question of why the BiH Constitution is not being implemented and why the Dayton Peace Agreement is not being respected. We in the SDP Club have been closely monitoring and participating in the debate on the "Plenary Law" proposed by the Council of Ministers of BiH. And in this law we installed all the useful and justified suggestions and suggestions that were heard during the debate last year. That is why it should be said that this law primarily respects the fact that BiH was, is and will be a state, that BiH is a state of equal citizens and peoples and that BiH respects the civil anti-fascist values. In this law we propose, so except for the New Year, which is celebrated and marked on January 1st and 2nd, so to continue to mark BiH's Independence Day, March 1st; International Labour Day, May 1st and 2nd; Victory Day over Fascism and Europe Day, May 9th; BiH's accession Day is celebrated on May 22nd. There is one technical error here I would ask for, I hope in the second 16 readings we will fix it, BiH has not been admitted to membership of the UN organisation on 21 May but on 22 May, so it should also stand in the law. Then the Day of Remembrance of Genocide Victims in Srebrenica and all the wars of July 11th; the Day of Uprising Against Fascism in BiH on July 27th. We also pointed out during that debate that, besides the European Day of Victory over Fascism, Bosnian Herzegovina peoples also have their anti-fascist tradition and there is no reason why July 27th would not be marked as the Day of Uprising against Fascism in BiH in World War II and, of course, November 25th as State Day. This law also provides for the marking of religious holidays, and they are detailed. We also want to say that it is very important that BiH has therefore a new holiday law. Let me just remind you that, let's just say, the Austrian state has 14 national holidays, that one kipar has 16 national holidays, that Estonia has 10, one small geographical area on Malta's surface has 14 national holidays and there is no reason not for BiH to settle this problem properly. I must show satisfaction that the Constitutional Commission of this House of Representatives has also supported the constitutional legal basis for the adoption of this law and has assessed that the draft law is in line with the BiH Constitution and the BiH legal system. And I want to say that the Constitutional Commission has unanimously established these conclusions, which is not very common when it comes to the work of this committee. This morning, so five minutes before the session began, we also received the opinion of the Ministry of Civil Affairs, which was adopted by the BiH Council of Ministers. I am pleased that in this opinion, the Council of Ministers of BiH did not question the proposed state holidays in any passage, nor did the Council of Ministers hold any objections to the proposal these holidays. I think it is both encouraging and inviting Parliament to adopt this law today. The only fundamental objection of the Council of Ministers, or the Ministry of Civil Affairs, is the question here that in the text of this law proposed by us SDP Members that this text is not in line with the Interreligious Council in BiH. However, this grudge does not stand for the following reasons: namely, in this law we had no objection when it came to these religious holidays, and we arranged it the way the Council of Ministers of BiH has arranged for the consultations that led to the Interreligious Council, so we tried to use those of the good in that law. Therefore, there are all reasons why today we should seriously discuss this law, adopt it in our first reading and move forward in accordance with the procedure set out in the BiH Parliamentary Assembly's House of Representatives. Thank you.
ParlaMint-BA_2010-03-23-0.u33387	Thank you. Dear Ambassador Slavko Jovičić, replica. Here you go. 17
ParlaMint-BA_2010-03-23-0.u33388	Dear Chairman, ladies and gentlemen, distinguished colleagues and colleagues, representatives of the Council of Ministers, NGOs, the media, so this would be good, I would immediately sign and vote, and if we had no further discussions, if this were the session of ZAVNOBiH. But we are in 2010 and we are comparing ZALNOBiH and comparing the Dayton Agreement and mixing it all with other things, I don't think we're going to come up with a proposal like this or adopting such holiday proposals for the simple reason that three dates and around them I don't believe, not this assembly, but also the future assembly of Parliament, will never be agreed. To mention March 1st as a holiday is an insult to the Serbian people, not only in the RS but also in BiH for the simple reason that this is the day of the biggest accident, at least for Srbin, and I think for other peoples, because I am not going to argue that the war started with that date and referendum, began much earlier, on October 1, 1991 in the village of Ravno, etc., but these are historical facts. So to impose something that will never get support is just that we don't have a holiday and, as the distinguished colleague said, that in a smaller space, now that's a smaller space, I don't know how he measured it, and I was kind of following those activities. So, the whole RS didn't celebrate, the Western Herzegovina didn't celebrate, and I don't know which cantons yet, but it doesn't matter. Whoever celebrates, let him celebrate as he wills, and may neither be able to challenge anyone, let him celebrate every day and proclaim the feast. But when it comes to obtaining official confirmation that it is celebrated as a state holiday on March 1st, that when it comes to speaking of course neither apriori nor I have a mandate to speak on behalf of an entire nation, but here I will say to the vast majority of the people who were killed and representatives of those categories: that date will never get support. And if it is just him, that I am not talking about the other two, then the law will not be passed in this form as proposed by Mr Bećirović, but as suggested by the Council of Ministers, so to whom it is acceptable. I'm not in a position to ultimatically say what I need to say, but the fact is that proposing such laws is just making new misunderstandings, complications, so I'll also say returning at some point when we refresh open hatred, why hide it. Secondly, to commit to November 25th, and to bring down a legal state and a non-constitutional and secessionist state, so I'm going to say separatically without the will of a nation, do what's done, but we can't bring back the wheel of history and put it for the holiday, and it can't pass.
ParlaMint-BA_2010-03-23-0.u33389	Time!
ParlaMint-BA_2010-03-23-0.u33390	And I'm ending up, of course, on July 11th, he'll be at another point, so we'll talk about it. So, as far as I'm concerned, and of course my colleagues, none of the three proposed dates will be included in BiH's holidays. 18
ParlaMint-BA_2010-03-23-0.u33391	Thank you. Dear Ambassador Remzija Kadrić, discussion. Here you go.
ParlaMint-BA_2010-03-23-0.u33392	I thank you, Chairman. I am pleased and it is very important that the promoter in his opening remarks stressed that we already have the current State Holidays Act, because the Constitution states that all laws, regulations and rules, which are in force on BiH territory when the Constitution comes into force, remain in force to the extent that it does not conflict with the Constitution until the BiH competent authority decides otherwise. So we have the State Holidays Act that is valid and that no other decision has been put out of force and the Proposer could have calmed his soul and proposed this law on amendments and additions to the State Holidays Act. But whatever it is, it's the fact that matters. What were you doing here in the amendment phase? It might be possible, when it comes to Article 3 of these State Holidays, that this is under f) when it comes to the Day of Remembrance of the Genocide in Srebrenica and all wars, that this is regulated by a special member and that it will be said that the Day of Remembrance of the Genocide in Srebrenica and all wars will be marked, and not that we put it on the list of national holidays, because, by their character, it should be specially separated, by a special member, the issue of the memory of the victims of genocide in Srebrenica and all wars with a special member to regulate it. And as for this Day of Independence, this holiday is no insult to the Serbian people. So many Srbin voted in favour of the two days on BiH's independence. Therefore, it cannot be said in so general that this holiday is an insult to the Serbian people, because many Srbin voted for BiH's independence. Thank you.
ParlaMint-BA_2010-03-23-0.u33393	Dear Ambassador Vesna Šain, a discussion. Here you go.
ParlaMint-BA_2010-03-23-0.u33394	The Honorable Chairman, ladies and gentlemen, this bill is truly unacceptable and illogical. Except for the essential illogicalities here, there are technical illogicalities, so the name says the Bill on the Holidays of BiH where the Proposer proposes that the holiday be the Day of Remembrance of the victims of Srebrenica genocide from all wars. It can't possibly be a holiday. The holiday is something that 19 are celebrated, celebrated, whether secular or religious, but cannot be called a holiday. Eventually, the promoter was supposed to put it on a day that wasn't working, but it wasn't. Furthermore, the promoter is also contradictory in his presentation where he calls for the Dayton Agreement and does not include him on the holidays. So it's November 21st as the day of the establishment of the General Framework Agreement for Peace in BiH. This day, the war stopped, peace began. We've stopped the bloodshed and the suffering and we've got what we've got. We have Bosnia that's calm. Furthermore, the Dayton Agreement lays down the basic principles of the state legal order. Bosnia has been formed as a state union and the proponent is also calling for the Dayton Agreement, and he has not placed it anywhere to celebrate it. I wouldn't talk about March 1st, it doesn't deserve a story at all, because on that day two nations agreed without the consent and will of a third nation. We know what it led to and how it led, so it's not worth talking about on the subject. Thank you.
ParlaMint-BA_2010-03-23-0.u33395	Thank you. Dear Professor Ekrem Ajanović, replica. Here you go.
ParlaMint-BA_2010-03-23-0.u33396	I'll be very brief, Mr. President. BiH is not built as a state union in Dayton. That's what people need to get out of their heads because it doesn't say it in the Constitution, and it doesn't say it anywhere in the law. The constitution said in Article I that it continues its continuity as a BiH state, only instead of the Republic as a BiH state, and never created a community of some; even when it comes to entities, it said that they are administratively arranged in a different way. So this abuse that it's a state community, it's absurd and the Constitution doesn't say that.
ParlaMint-BA_2010-03-23-0.u33397	Thank you. Dear Ambassador Mirko Okolić, discussion. Here you go.
ParlaMint-BA_2010-03-23-0.u33398	Thank you, Mr. Chairman. This law, regardless of what is in the first reading, is probably not going to get a pass in this House, because it is made so that it is impossible to obtain a critical mass for the adoption of this law and I don't know what the aim of the promoter was, whether it has only proposed this law or that 20 really is adopted. If someone wanted, and in this case the proponent, to adopt this law, then it cannot be done in this way because it is obvious that there is no general consensus here, or there is no critical mass for the adoption of this law. The reason is simple because this law certainly won't get support from RS lawmakers because of what is listed here as state holidays that are supposed to be in BiH. But here I go, and if we all appreciate it as much as I appreciate that we need the BiH holiday law, we should do it the next way. Accordingly, I propose a conclusion that might help us if we want to and want to get a proposal for a holiday law in BiH. In fact, it is impossible to pass such a law without agreeing on all relevant factors in this country, because we have seen that the proposed law by the Council of Ministers has put a lot of effort into it, which has certain consultations, certain correspondence with competent or competent institutions and individuals who should participate in this law and many things, and that it has also not received a passing assessment of this Parliament, and immediately beyond that it can be concluded that based on far smaller consultations, correspondence, etc. Surely this law will not receive support in this House. Therefore, my conclusion is that this House of Representatives is forming an inter-resorship commission for the making of the holiday law in BiH. Commission members would be representatives of all political parties in this house, and the explanation for this proposal is as follows. We came in such a position that we realized that everything that should be brought to BiH is vital and cannot seem to bring it and it is safe and so it is good that some have understood it without good preparation and good work on it and without a certain compromise and it is undeniable. If we want a compromise and to gain a critical mass that can be voted on in this House, then it is necessary to do so, with a lead that we have already formed such two committees, one for the list of populations on the proposal seems to me to be Mr Dokić, yes, and the other we are amendments to the Constitution, because that is the only way it looks and it is possible to bring it into this country, and in particular we will have arguments for or against if the two commissions reach that level to propose the corresponding text and that this Parliament adopts. So I ask my colleagues and colleagues to support this conclusion and thus try to reach a law that could possibly pass in this House if there is a will; if there is no, I am sure that we will not have this law in due course. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-BA_2010-03-23-0.u33399	Thank you. Dear Ambassador Momčilo Novaković, discussion. Here you go.
ParlaMint-BA_2010-03-23-0.u33400	Thank you, Mr. Chairman. 21 I must express the satisfaction that we have in front of us lately, including today, a set of laws, an initiative of which BiH citizens will be more situated tomorrow, to be more in the mood, to appreciate their MPs and to vote again, because their plates will be fuller, which will be worn by modern suits, which the young will have the latest Nokia, which, of course, will be embraced by all together in the EU, and I guess the merits of these solutions will be precisely proposed. This is, I mean, the fifth or sixth debate about this law, and I thought more of these discussions could teach me nothing, and then I realized I could learn something. So I learned that surface smaller countries have holiday laws. Even with more holidays. By the square of the surface, so they have more holidays than we do. So I learned, though, that I knew that we could read from these opinions and not read and explain it as a positive opinion. I've learned that we have a law that we're so determined to pass. And that's why I would like to thank my colleagues for making this law a little stronger by introducing the New Year's Eve and on May 1st, since we know that we haven't celebrated the New Year's Eve, or that djed didn't like it very mraz in this country at the time of the law. So, now that I look at the reasons for and against this law, I really have to express my satisfaction once again by opening another debate about these taxing days here. I guess we haven't said enough times that we don't agree on, so it's important that we say it again today, and not just on this bill, but on some points of the agenda, which will also make our stomachs fuller. I think I least expected from my SDP colleagues to turn a full policy before the election campaign and really go one way in which, I guess, it's proven so far, there are election results. Here I hope that this is quite a coincidence, I hope that this won't happen again, no matter what citizens are much happier tomorrow than today and that they would be much happier and I hope that we here for at least two or three more months, if nothing, at least before the Election Commission announces the elections, start dealing with some other issues besides those we've dealt with in the previous eight years. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-BA_2010-03-23-0.u33401	Thank you. The second vice-president, Mr. Beriz Belkić, is a replica. Here you go.
ParlaMint-BA_2010-03-23-0.u33402	The specific reason for the replica is the discussion of Mr. Novaković, and otherwise the way we conduct the debate about this law in the first reading. Look, Mr. Novaković, I thought I heard everything that could be heard, too, but here's the news today. So I understand that this kind of initiative, this kind of bill, or debate on some issues, people understand and, as a necessity, point out the previously known views on certain things. Okay. It is the right of every MP to remind us of his position, to remind us of 22 understanding of certain things, and practically nothing is new that we are facing radically, we have different experiences of this issue, when it comes to holidays. What do we have left? We're left with a simple commitment to some of the things that have experienced some kind of verification beyond us. I'm sure there are such things. I can't accept this kind of discussion to say impose something that will never get support, which is entering hate, entering further deepening differences etc. We simply need to understand that there are a significant number of MPs in this House who believe that the issue of holidays should be settled in this country in a way that all citizens of this country accept these holidays. If this isn't the solution, we have to look for that solution. And don't ask for no initiative. We can't say: Mr. Novaković, point, we will never again, because someone didn't like this proposal. We think it should be done. We'll start initiatives for the hymn text as well. So we have to be prepared to discuss it. And don't let us disqualify each other right away and use the hard words. Okay. This proposal is not acceptable, you say it is not acceptable, but to enter into a debate, into a discussion, in a way of community, in a united state, this country has fallen apart, this is, what you are, I mean really doesn't make sense.
ParlaMint-BA_2010-03-23-0.u33403	Dear Ambassador Branko Dokić, discussion. Here you go.
ParlaMint-BA_2010-03-23-0.u33404	Thank you, Mr. Chairman. Here's what my colleague Belkić just said. There are people in this Parliament and in this country who really believe that BiH needs the "Feast Law". And I personally think that ours, among other things, is a shame that we don't have the "Feast Law." ... That's exactly where I wanted to go on, and I'm not going to convince anyone that we don't have, or I won't challenge the attitudes of those who say we have, but it's the fact that one day in BiH you don't have in all places where there's supposed to be a national flag that doesn't have what it does and goes behind something called a state holiday. Apparently, every holiday we celebrate is experiencing in its own way. In that context, I'm saying we don't have a national threshold. That's why I supported every initiative she had in mind to come up with some sort of agreement that we had state holidays. I personally think that if we respected each other a little bit more so that we would have, even if it was called New Year's Eve, but for that New Year's Eve, the national flag stands from Cazin via Banja Luka, Sarajevo to Mostar and Trebinj and Kladude. So we don't have that, if we want to admit it. If we're not going to admit it, then it's another problem and then all this story is in vain, and we're going to have to remind ourselves of what's unacceptable or acceptable to us every time. Coming back to this proposal, now here, I appreciate the proposal's effort to come up with some kind of proposal, but by my deep conviction, the motionary did not propose this law with the intention of passing it, but with the intention of someone else, that I am not speaking now, not mentioning an election year and so on. Because if that were the case, you'd know what attitudes are on each of these proposed dates in this same House, and not once. In that context, I can say 23 that from these holidays I will now say what is acceptable to me, what is acceptable to the PDP, not to me, and what must change. And I'm going to suggest how to do it. The day of independence and that on March 1st is completely unacceptable to us for the simple reason that this is the day that definitely brought us into war. What day is that? I beg you, have the opportunity to replicate by tomorrow, but be parliamentary and listen to me, I am very uncomfortable with getting out of touch in Parliament, this is not a meeting of some commission where you can be a little bit and...
ParlaMint-BA_2010-03-23-0.u33405	Professor, they're responding to the conclusions they've received, not to your discussion.
ParlaMint-BA_2010-03-23-0.u33406	So the fact is, we wanted to admit or not to admit, unfortunately, that BiH is neither sovereign nor independent yet. BiH is not run by us here chosen by our people, but you know it all better here than me who, etc., etc. But it's not just that, this is, by the way, the fact that after that date we definitely entered what could have been the worst thing that could have happened to all the peoples in this country, it's war. It's absurd, by comparing two extremes, there is no peace in this proposal on November 21st. And indeed, here I can say that when these extremes are being made, there's no story, there's no deal in common. As far as PDP is concerned, there is no dispute at all 25. But together with the 21st and the 25th, there is one weight from that period, and the 21st has the actual weight. BiH is as defined in 21st, we wanted to admit it or not to admit it. Then, strangely whether someone admits it or not, and as much as they admit it says, one absurd fact is that 21 at the state level, and not even to the OHR, which, by the next 21st and government of this country, is not marked that day except for a 10-year-old, when it's marked outside of this country. And you know where that is? It's an absurd fact for me that says a lot. But I want to point out, dear friends, while BiH is like this, the 21st deserves to be a holiday. If we agree to change the internal and administrative and territorial structure, then it will be worth the day of the agreement to be a state holiday. So, let me be clear, 25. Yes, on the 21st day of the Dayton Peace Agreement. As far as the PDP is concerned, we have nothing against marking the Day of Rebellion in BiH, so that I might mind, when it is that day, that rise and rise in the area where I was born and in which my ancestors have known each other since we've been written. But personally, I don't think there is any need, that there are enough of these holidays that characterise BiH as an anti-fascist state that has contributed to the fight against fascism. That's if we talk about the 25th on the condition that it's the 21st, that's May 9th, I think those two days are enough. But what I'm saying is, in general, I'm going to declare my commitment to NOB that we don't mind and that is, if it's a matter of compromise to be, yes. But personally, we don't think it's necessary for this to be a holiday. Under this formula, this under 'f' The Day of Remembrance of Victims', for PDP is totally unacceptable. We are about to determine one day when we will remember the victims of past wars. Here's to not being, as someone says almost in the hallway, to stretch to memories until the Ottoman period, to be limited to the last century, to the 20th century, let it be limited here to the last two wars in these areas. Please don't let me remind you of one of the largest sites in Europe, which is 24 Jasenovac. And that was almost in the historical context, that was almost. Highlighting one tragedy especially that happened in Srebrenica but forgetting others and them is indeed something that is not acceptable in the context and in the structure of this country and is not okay. Not to remind you of any other places. Here is almost a month ago and some anniversary of a tragedy that took place at Banja Luka in the village of Drakulić, where the names of about 2,500 people disappeared overnight without a single shot fired.
ParlaMint-BA_2010-03-23-0.u33407	Time!
ParlaMint-BA_2010-03-23-0.u33408	I'm asking you to respect all the victims. I worship deeply the victims of Srebrenica and those whose brothers, sisters, sons, etc. and so on, but let's have an understanding of the other victims that have happened lately. And in the end,
ParlaMint-BA_2010-03-23-0.u33409	You'll have a chance in replicas to explain.
ParlaMint-BA_2010-03-23-0.u33410	Half a minute. I suggest... I welcome the initiative that we have the law. This form, due to the two holidays mentioned, will not be able to pass in the first reading. I support fellow Okolić's proposal to form one working group, but not by representatives of all parties. I think it's enough to have five members, two of them from the opposition, three from the post, and I suggest that at the head of that task force be the legislator of this law. You'll Dobićete in writing this proposal.
ParlaMint-BA_2010-03-23-0.u33411	Thank you. We have two replicas. Ambassador-in-Office Šefik Džaferović, please.
ParlaMint-BA_2010-03-23-0.u33412	Mr. Chairman, I avoid replicating, but really sometimes you can't keep your mouth shut, you have to replicate. Mr. Dokić, March 1st didn't lead us into war. On March 1st, two-thirds of BiH citizens expressed a democratic wish, so 65% of the total number of BiH citizens, which is... two-thirds of BiH citizens expressed their political desire and will to build an independent BiH and thus respond to major state aspirations on the 25th account of BiH territory, followed by aggression on the state of BiH. It's historic truth and I beg you when you speak of it, you speak historical truth.
ParlaMint-BA_2010-03-23-0.u33413	Dear Ambassador Denis Bećirović, replica. Here you go.
ParlaMint-BA_2010-03-23-0.u33414	I would like to say that I welcome the way my colleague Dokić discussed this law. I think he's been having a serious discussion. He said openly what was acceptable to him, what wasn't, and that's the only way we're handling things here. So, let's hear, let's talk, and only through conversation and dialogue can we come up with some solutions, unlike some of the other debaters who, in my opinion, haven't had a very serious discussion. counterpart Dokić most apostrophe on March 1st as he said, a date that is not acceptable. We can disagree on some things when it comes to interpretations, but we should respect some facts. When it comes to concrete March 1st, we here must very clearly say some facts that cannot be interpreted in any way other than what happened. In fact, March 1st didn't come at once. The first March has its causes,...and has its consequences. By March 1st, it would not have occurred if the Republic of Serbia hadn't asked the European Community to form an arbitration commission known as the Badinter Commission. The commission was formed in the fall of 1991. The Badinter commission has answered Serbia's direct question. Serbia has asked whether the borders between Serbia and Croatia and the border between Serbia and BiH are becoming international borders after Yugoslavia's collapse. Badinter's commission answered the question in January and, among other things, stressed at the time that they would become international borders, if those countries chose to become independent. In terms of BiH, so I'm just talking about facts now, I don't want to interpret them, the Badinter Commission said BiH can become independent if it organises a referendum. BiH organised a referendum... under the current course of the Constitution and at that referendum nearly two-thirds or 65% of BiH citizens declared themselves independent. There are few countries in Europe that have gained independence with such a degree. In Montenegro today, they write celebrations because they have thrown up to 55% for Montenegro's independence, and here is the question why 64% are citizens. The referendum brought out all citizens in a smaller or larger number, all those who thought BiH should be independent. And if two-thirds of them hadn't voted for independence, what would have happened? It would probably decide those others, how much, 35% to decide on behalf of all BiH citizens!?
ParlaMint-BA_2010-03-23-0.u33415	Time!
ParlaMint-BA_2010-03-23-0.u33416	Therefore, the matter is quite clear. These are facts and it would be good to respect these facts as soon as possible, because these facts are also written in the BiH Constitution, but I don't have time to talk about it now. 26
ParlaMint-BA_2010-03-23-0.u33417	Dear Ambassador Branko Dokić, replica.
ParlaMint-BA_2010-03-23-0.u33418	Well, I don't know if I should remind you, but it seems necessary: 98% of one nation in BiH did not go to that referendum and boycotted it. I do not dispute the independent, on the contrary, here I do everything, and in this house I have suggested that BiH do everything it takes for its constituents to manage this country, confirming its commitment to its independence, etc., etc. But if you really think that the March 1st mention is still going to be of direct interference with the majority, here at this point, over 90% of the Srbin in BiH; we are seeing that day as the day that BiH definitely entered the war, the fact that a willingness to revote is shown, and not with a small percentage, but almost 100%. I'm not going in now, I'm not going back to history what would have been, I'd be too happy if the war hadn't happened. And now there's another story, there's one with it, there's none, there's one, and you mentioned Montenegro. And Montenegro was with Serbia at some point two eyes in its head, so Montenegro is independent and, fortunately, it had no war that we had. Now, in that context, my remark is on that date.
ParlaMint-BA_2010-03-23-0.u33419	Dear Ambassador Remzija Kadrić, replica.
ParlaMint-BA_2010-03-23-0.u33420	So it's not true, it's not an exact statement that 98% of a nation voted against the referendum on an independent BiH. So that percentage isn't right. And additionally, when it comes to these demands and decisions of the Badinter Commission, also at Serbia's request -- can one people stay in Yugoslavia? - the decision, the position of the Badinter Commission was against such a single request, of course with their view that one nation must be guaranteed national, cultural and other identity and in that part was such a attitude of the Badinter Commission. And so, I confirm this, their view was that the BiH state referendum should determine whether to stay, whether to become an independent state or not. So this 98% data that one people was against the referendum, that's not true.
ParlaMint-BA_2010-03-23-0.u33421	Dear Ambassador Ekrem Ajanović, replica. Here you go.
ParlaMint-BA_2010-03-23-0.u33422	I'll be short in the replica. First, what I resent to the gentleman who brought up certain things. First, he did not respect and does not respect the fact of the BiH Constitution at the time. Because then, the BiH Constitution said that holding a referendum and even setting out a certain municipality, it mentions that all citizens must, that all citizens should decide and that the two-thirds decide the system. Therefore, this member of the constitution did not say anywhere that BiH's peoples must be declared special. Therefore, the story was long, long ago completed, and it, the international community would never recognise BiH, would have asked 27 of it, as set by Montenegro, although Montenegro was much less, but in our constitution it then wrote such a question for the referendum that it was fully implemented under the current BiH Constitution. And just one more sentence. Many, long before BiH's independence was debated at all, proposals came out on the creation of the SAA, if you know, Serbian autonomous areas, and I then asked in Parliament: Gentlemen, how does Tešanj who has 99% of Bošnjak, that is when I told Muslims, how can he belong to the northern area, to the Serb autonomous area? They said, "We don't mind, we can't connect them." And it was actually in the war and it was seen, and that's why they executed 12 unsuccessful offensives, which is why 12.5 thousand innocent people from the Serb people fell, so that it would be done and for Tešanj to join the Serbian autonomous area. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-BA_2010-03-23-0.u33423	It's on the agenda of the Proposal of the holiday law. But there's no excuse to warn you that I intended this session to be completed before and until lunch break, and then after that, we'll begin the second session. However, discussions are obviously interesting. Dear Ambassador Milica Marković, replica. Here you go.
ParlaMint-BA_2010-03-23-0.u33424	Mr. Chairman, we would all like that to happen, to finish by 2:00 p.m., but obviously that will not happen because there is a need here for certain colleagues to create such an atmosphere, first of all, to run for such topics and laws that will create certain turbulence in Parliament and conflicts of opinion and statements. And, I mean, one of the previous speakers said, you can disagree and not support what's in the content of the proposed law, but you can't say that they won't discuss it anymore and they won't. Here, I say now, there will never be a law, there will never be a holiday law in BiH where there will be a story of March 1st and there will be no story of November 21st, as the day of the signing of the Dayton Peace Agreement, because representatives from the RS will never support such a law and at first I think this story is absurd. I don't know what this situation is going to suggest to the SDP in the first place, and the SDP colleagues themselves know that this law can't go through. And we are wasting our time, but a lot has already been said and observed here, a variety of findings that simply insult common sense in this House in people who are thinking clearly, what Mr Bećirević said was that this referendum was carried out with two thirds of BiH citizens, that he is now fully legitimate, so that we can talk about March 1st, the day when one such event is appointed. It is, Mr Bećirević, that it is Croatia or Serbia, but here is not one, we are not all Bosanac and Hercegovac. It is well known here that the Hrvat, Srbin, lived on March 1, 1991, were Muslims, now living Bošnjak, so that is the important difference between Croatia and Serbia, which implements the referendum in one way and makes decisions under the referendum, and how it is conducted in BiH. And to say that two-thirds have decided on that referendum and one-third is not, so one-third is a whole nation. And you think it's good now and it's useful and we'll vote for it. We never will. We will never vote and do not live in error, do not run for laws like this again that offend people's common sense, running for dates that are for Srbin, for all Srbin in BiH on March 1st, the day that the war in BiH began directly. And if anyone thinks such dates should be celebrated in this country, then let him vote himself if he can vote 28 of those laws and celebrate those dates. Here, after all, March 1st is celebrated in the Federation, RS is not celebrated, will never be celebrated, I hear that even some cantons in the Federation have not marked it. And Mr. Remzi when he said that 98% of one people were not reportedly disputed, as the Srbin voted, so when you say it wasn't 98%, tell us how many Srbin voted in that referendum; when you know that this data is not correct, then you need to know what it is, so you can tell us how many Srbin were in that mass with which you operate and say that two-thirds decided on that referendum. I mean, really here some things...
ParlaMint-BA_2010-03-23-0.u33425	Time!
ParlaMint-BA_2010-03-23-0.u33426	Some things can't be heard by all those who speak and who try to create such an atmosphere and such an atmosphere in Parliament, whatever you think about what we say about the state community, a state made up of two entities, maybe it won't be put together in three or five years' time as it is today. But you must know that those who talk like this and who run for this topic are not working on building BiH, but are working on decommissioning it.
ParlaMint-BA_2010-03-23-0.u33427	I hope at least we finish this topic by 2:00, we have to take a break at 2:00. Dear Ambassador Adem Huskić, replica. Here you go.
ParlaMint-BA_2010-03-23-0.u33428	Thank you, Mr. Chairman. I don't think war can solve anything. The war was about BiH dividing. BiH is not a division and should not be restarted; those who got one on their nose would get another time.
ParlaMint-BA_2010-03-23-0.u33429	Dear Ambassador Remzija Kadrić, replica.
ParlaMint-BA_2010-03-23-0.u33430	This is the answer. So, you, Mrs. Marković, look at how many Srbin voted that day, those two days, February 28th and March 1st, in a referendum on independence... Tell you how many Srbin were against it. You know as much as it was against, I know how many Srbin there were for BiH. So the Srbin who voted for an independent BiH were therefore more than 2% and you say how much it was against it. 29
ParlaMint-BA_2010-03-23-0.u33431	Since it is at 12:00 with the Monitoring Team meeting, here I would ask the presidents of the Party for BiH and SDP Club together with the first deputy chairman, Mr. Nik Lozančić, to go to this meeting, to be escorted anyway, it is still a meeting with the Monitoring Club, and to continue the discussion on this point, if it is not a problem. Thank you. Vinko Zorić, as next reported for discussion. Here you go.
ParlaMint-BA_2010-03-23-0.u33432	Thank you, Mr. Chairman. I also noticed at one point that maybe the law on borders is on the agenda. I'm glad you noticed that, too. But here, in the agenda I received, writes the Bill on the holidays of BiH, I hold in my hand the Bill on the holidays of BiH; if none of the multiethnic parties I expected to win in the languages of the people, especially since it is in the head of this club, not the individual. But there it is, anyway, talking about the multiethnicity of the party from which we received the proposal. But I'll tell you about the holidays next. BiH should have the "Fridays Law" because it is better and all that we agree on from the chaotic state we now have and which is fairly talked about by counterpart Dokić. So, really, the situation in the field is chaotic. I support and support both me and my colleague Raguž this law in first reading, but we will have a lot of amendments. For example. I'm not for some spent recipes that I don't think are anywhere in Europe: about moving meals or celebrating, if it falls on Sundays, if it falls on Saturdays. What difference does it make when it falls? It's Thanksgiving. There's no moving Christmas. Christmas can be Fridays and Mondays and Sundays, etc. So, first of all, I'm not into that kind of solution. Then I'm not for solutions to be more text, to write a day off will be the first day, if it goes by what I'm not. Isn't it enough to write that it'll be March 2nd? Oh, no, it'll be the first one, etc. There's no telling which one's next. It can't be after March 1st, it can't be March 3rd, the first next unworkable, if we know that 2nd isn't a holiday and a day off. So there's a lot here. Then what, if the proposer wanted this law to pass, I would really do my best, and I'm not going to talk about now that we're going to make all the changes, but here, I would really do my best, for example. to... be the Day of Victory and the Day of Europe, if not, just the Day of Europe. So, we can normally celebrate this Day of Europe that it only writes Europe's Day because we belong to that Europe. [[no microphone turned on]] It doesn't matter, but that's not what it's called in Europe. That's what this is about. Why do we want to be more Catholic than Pope? I don't want to have a dialogue with you, colleague Bećirović, but I say what would be better. It would be better if 30 were called Genocidal Victims Day. It would be more passing in Parliament. We know where the genocides are, and it won't diminish the memory of the genocide victims in Srebrenica, and it won't hurt, and it won't happen if it wasn't there. That was, that's historical facts. For example, I am not at all that there is 'A Day Against Fascism in BiH' here. These uprisings created a country that later collapsed. I'm not up for it. As funny as that is, I'm not for it. So, I said, we're gonna support this law in our first reading. If the first reading goes through, we'll have a lot of amendments, maybe as many articles as there are.
ParlaMint-BA_2010-03-23-0.u33434	Dear Ambassador Slavko Jovičić, discussion. Here you go.
ParlaMint-BA_2010-03-23-0.u33435	Thank you, Mr. Chairman. Ladies and gentlemen, I will begin my presentation that I fully understand the promoter, Mr. and Honorable colleague Bećirović. I also fully understand the views of political parties and representatives, respected colleagues from the Bosniak people, which is obvious to support this bill. But I ask: When I understand them all, does anyone understand us? When I say us, I go straight to the first face of unity, me as an MP from the Serb people, and that later they would not honor me to speak for the whole nation, but here in the name of the vast majority of the Serb people of RS – does anyone understand us? When I understand everything and we understand everything, why don't others understand us and our accepted suggestions and opinions that this law can't be supported? There were various numbers here, historical facts, and even wrong dates, it's not a problem. He was not, a respected colleague, Kadriću, a referendum on February 28th. Under the circumstances, it was a criminal year, it was 29th, so it was 1. So February 29th and March 1st. Well, maybe it's that very guilty year, February 29th, he brought an accident. It was mentioned here and the Banditier's commission, and we know who was in that commission, who was then supporting, so who forgot a little and Cimerman, the ambassador from Belgrade, who was hanging here in BiH more than in the Belgrade residence and was giving maximum support for all of this how to break up that Yugoslavia. But well, those were the historical circumstances and the fact that it was supposed to collapse. When they brought down the Soviet Union, what was difficult for them to bring down Yugoslavia? Eh, but good. So, as many numbers as anyone has gone to the referendum, no one will ever determine. Never. And he's the key, that March 1st, alleged Independence Day. I'll always call it "a day of misfortune for all the peoples." So they were one-national election committees and, if someone was sitting somewhere, there were no representatives of political parties, so the controllers, so those from the OSCE to watch, so monitoring teams, nothing. The list was taken, so I know that in communism, where there were a lot of sanctions, how the elections for the local community were being set up, for the plumbing, so it doesn't matter: we sit down, in the end, I was a member of the electoral committees and everyone who didn't come round. We want water. We don't care if they didn't come. We want water. Well, that's how it was here at that famous session on January 24th and 25th 1992, which ended at 6:00 in the morning. First, there was no Srbin representative to vote for such a decision, except for the chairman, Momčilo Krajišnik, who presided over the situation because he was still the official president of the BiH Parliament and me by giving me circumstances under some other basis and no more Srbin. I was just looking for them in the O.R. so I could count 31 and it wasn't there. Now, if they gave you the legitimacy for this referendum, Mr. Krajišnik who did not support that decision and I, then you have the legal right to ask today to celebrate it. But we didn't. I had no right to vote, and he was against everything that was against the Serb people. Later it turned out that he was either right or wrong, you could see what was going on. A referendum was held two days ago, and, I repeat, no one will ever really put an eye on the voter's lists and, who would look at it, who was who he rounded up and who was the percentage. Even the percentage that it took of 46.6% to be a two-thirds majority was not achieved. So not according to that principle, but 64.6%, but even if it were 51.2%, it would be appreciated, because the foreigners said it had to be done. So don't insist on March 1st. Now, whether he was the day of the war or not, that's another thing. Well, then Srbin always have the custom to tie up the murder of Svato Gardović for that day, because he will never agree to it, so there are other dates, but whatever we consider, that I should cut short, that 1 March, 1 March will always stay on the calendar and no one will delete it, because that is the day, 1 March can't be the 2nd and that the 1st spring. But as a holiday in BiH, it won't be even if he votes this parliament, so it's such a possibility not to ask the Serbian people again, no one will ever celebrate it in the RS in any municipality or put a flag on BiH. So you sue the BiH Prosecution of the entire people, 63 municipalities, sue all the living and bring them all to the Court of BiH and judge them but they will never be celebrated. So if it's all like that, and it's impossible to be a holiday, why insisting on dividing us even more, separates us. Well, I'll say in the end, not arguing in the sense that we're holding our necks here right now, that we won't, this is a democratic parliament, but it's good to hear from each other, and it's even better if we respect each other. If something is not possible in one entity, and I won't tell the entity because both Bošnjak and Hrvat live there, but here's one people to accept it, so I guess two other nations should understand, not to force it. By the representatives of the strongest political party in the RS, not to say the Serbian people, you will never get such a proposal here that would be in any way directed against any nation, whether it's minority or majority, I always advocate that they are equal peoples, but to be honest, unfortunately they are not. Eh, let's move on, historical facts. The question on November 25th is how everything was there, I was taught by a teacher and a teacher that I loved a brother more Broz a father and a mother, and that's what I thought. So when I found out that some of the caves were inconclusive, no one ever opened them, so he found some people who told me that Vlado Šegrt, the famous agriculture minister and commander, knew how to get to some Herzegovian village and if he only heard that two had gone into the brushes, and he killed all the youth from 18 to 18. And these are some historical facts that weren't available to us. So, what happened in ZAVNOBEH, we mostly know one historical fact that is true, that the winners always wrote history. Now, as she is, I've been learning; today I see things wrong. Well, if I learned wrong back then, I won't make a mistake today so I can accept it all as someone once told me. I've heard a lot of things in my life, and today I'm just listening to myself and, of course, some people who have chosen me in this parliament that I represent. As for July 11th, I think it's indisputable from the aspect of what happened, but to put it, first I ask the question, and it was still here in 2005 at a public debate -- as that date can be called as a holiday. Then what's to be celebrated first? An accident day to celebrate, who to celebrate, and how to mark? 32 Another thing, take the entire war of 42 months and just put it in context one day and the victims get killed? I never asked for a balance in the amount of crimes committed but a balance in the amount of justice and, I mentioned, the mother, regardless of what she was, the Bošnjakinja, the Srpkinja, the Hrvatica, who lost three sons, in her tragedy are Jasenovac and Srebrenica and Sarajevo and Sijekovac and down this now which is run the process Bugojno and, I don't know, Uzdol and how it all happened where it happened. So there are all the tragedies of the individual. Now, can we ignore the fact and say, "Here's July 11th, we'll mark it as a holiday." I repeat again, what holiday? Accident, tragedy, call whatever you want. And then put all the victims into everything. Here, I represent the victims and today I represent, and I always say, I'm right on behalf of the victims that we can't possibly be on that date. The last camp in BiH closed on January 27th, '96. And after Dayton. So, I would ask that day to be a holiday. I'm asking these: what kind of holiday? Maybe a holiday, the greatest holiday of freedom, because you don't know anyone here what freedom is. That's the most important word for any man who's gone through such a googogue. But then someone would honor me tomorrow: it is a coincidence, on that day the infamous Aušvic was closed. And we've gone far into history, but it's all history here. How did these dates ever come into the proposal if they weren't historical facts? And they already have.
ParlaMint-BA_2010-03-23-0.u33436	Time!
ParlaMint-BA_2010-03-23-0.u33437	Eh, I'm done. So, and it's quite clear, give up these three dates if you want holidays and accept this law that the Council of Ministers has proposed so that we have something. Maybe some generation that comes in 50 years will change something but the present and the representatives won't accept this. It's just a more complicated situation in BiH, when we have more pressing things to deal with.
ParlaMint-BA_2010-03-23-0.u33438	Thank you. Dear Member Nermina Zaimović-Uzunović-Uzunovic, a replica. Professor, you answer the discussion. You've already had two replicas.
ParlaMint-BA_2010-03-23-0.u33439	Dear Chairman, colleagues and colleagues, I'd just like a couple of some, on a few occasions mentioned, to celebrate the holidays. Yeah, they're famous for the good ones. Those who have led to some beautiful things, to victory, to what can be celebrated. That's why here in the proposal you have a list of all holidays. Some are celebrated and it is evident here that the Day of Remembrance is marked by genocide in Srebrenica and other wars. So, language and here in the material there is this written and don't misread it, because it's very clearly written and every normal knows what's being celebrated and what's being marked. So much for me. Thank you. 33
ParlaMint-BA_2010-03-23-0.u33440	Thank you. Dear Ambassador Selim Bešlagić, replica. Here you go.
ParlaMint-BA_2010-03-23-0.u33441	Well, the replica refers to the total of almost the entire discussion because, as you saw, the previous point was the Election Law and then we didn't criticize anyone there for what the law had been filed, and amendments should be discussed to the second stage. I took it in the end because it seems to me that in this time we all say it would be good, and then we still have lessons in what we suggested. We have proposed here in Parliament to accept this in the first reading and to go with the amendment phase and, it seems to me, that there is a basis to discuss this everything that we have discussed here today. So if that's not allowed, then simply this rejection seems to me to be an indication that you're not into tolerance, no one who says we're not going to discuss these things. Let's go to phase two and let the law fail, change the deal. Let's make a deal, try to find solutions that are... on the way and just go with it. So I'm asking you to just realize that you're not being challenged by making a proposal. I wish it could be settled and resolved, but I must remind you that the Council of Ministers' law, which was delivered on 5 November 2009, had no state holiday. No state holiday! He had those festivals that are known in the world, and which we celebrate even now, and with law and law, New Year's Eve, and the Day of Victory over Fascism. So here we thought we should have these holidays, because it doesn't matter just having a big plate, it's important to have a feeling that there are some holidays in this country together. And let's agree on what the holidays are. Here's the amendment phase. Let's go and, if we can't agree, let the law fall. Thank you.
ParlaMint-BA_2010-03-23-0.u33442	Replications, in turn. Dear Ambassador Slavko Matić, please.
ParlaMint-BA_2010-03-23-0.u33443	Mr. Chairman, distinguished colleagues and fellow representatives, honored guests, here is my noun, the distinguished representative Slavko Jovičić is only one in a series of those MPs and MPs who had previously claimed to be a referendum from '92. was a cause for war in BiH. The fact of the matter is something else. War in BiH began well before, 21. Nine. In 1991, troops of the then Yugoslav army burned the village of Ravna and the first victims were killed and killed there, so significantly before that referendum. On the other hand, I don't think there are any arguments to argue that the referendum is precisely a cause for war, given everything that happened before in Slovenia, especially in Croatia, almost a year before the referendum itself, and especially since the absolutely opposing views of those who saw BiH as an independent state and those who advocated BiH's stay in Yugoslavia. And without a referendum, the fact is that there would obviously be a war. 34
ParlaMint-BA_2010-03-23-0.u33444	Thank you. Replica reply, Honorary Ambassador Slavko Jovičić, second.
ParlaMint-BA_2010-03-23-0.u33445	So, dear colleague Bešlagić, if you wanted the amendments to some law to change, then you'd be acting on the proposal for a law on the Council of Ministers' holidays. But you're fully aware now that no amendment we're going to make, or if we accepted, past reading, which is not going to happen, would be accepted and again doing a useless job. Of course, in my discussion, I said that the war did not begin on March 1st but in the village of Ravna, I mentioned it, but until February 29th and March 1st there was a chance and hope that BiH would not stand out from the then constitutional and territorial organisation of Yugoslavia. I'm talking about separation, and I've emphasized the Separatist... without the will of a nation. The war begins, it's true, I was in the village straight down with the state delegation and I know what it all looked like, but then it was a regular Yugoslav People's Army, we're going a little further now, but let me cut this short. So, if you wanted to act as an amendment, you would have accepted the proposal for a holiday law from the Council of Ministers. And that's where the amendments would be submitted and proposed by you to these dates that you propose in your proposal. But since, of course, you knew that these amendments would not be accepted, then you went with your proposal, which I consider to be a completely legitimate right. And you did it right. Now, go back to the variant so we can accept the first reading so we can fix the amendment something, what's never gonna be possible, it's just a game of some new game, an extension of agony. Come on, be in that position that I said earlier, which I understand perfectly and would support if I were you, and you understand us that amendments cannot change these dates that you insist on and that we can never accept these dates that you have proposed in the law, and that this has no solution. The only solution is to give up that proposal. If you are not comfortable with the proposal of the Council of Ministers, we remain in the status quo and do not insist. Believe it's the only thing that leads us to new divisions, misunderstandings, and I don't know what else, because nothing's gonna help us. I've always pleaded that we're doing something together that everyone will accept. You are fully aware here that Serbian representatives, the Serbian people, will never accept it. Why do you insist more on it, when it's all clear to you? How is it possible, dear colleague Bešlagić, to invite us to the amendments, when you know that no amendment of ours would be accepted? How? What, we don't need to, let's go with the cards open. You wouldn't be accepted. Now, when he won't be accepted in the first reading, or in some other perfectly legal ways, he'll be shot down by the Rules of Procedure, and then you blame us all you want, and put the trees and stones on the representatives of the Serb people and the RS, but ask yourself what you suggested when you know that this was immediately directed against us?
ParlaMint-BA_2010-03-23-0.u33446	You're giving up means, but Ambassador Selim Bešlagić has a counterreplication. Here you go.
ParlaMint-BA_2010-03-23-0.u33447	Well, just let Slavki know. I'm glad he's reading our thoughts. You're a psychic. Therefore, I have no discussion or replication of your... 35
ParlaMint-BA_2010-03-23-0.u33448	Dear Ambassador Rifat Dolić, discussion. Here you go.
ParlaMint-BA_2010-03-23-0.u33449	Gentlemen Chairman, colleagues and colleagues, distinguished guests, I personally believe that the issue of national and religious holidays should be settled as soon as possible because it is also an important segment of the state. Today we have an inappropriate situation as if it were a market, not a state. State holidays are also celebrated in one part of the country, in the other part is a normal working day, and where national holidays are celebrated there are no rules to mark these holidays. With full respect for the attempt to settle this issue, I think this issue will be difficult to settle. In fact, this issue must be a consensus in order for it to be a national holiday. Without it, we'll have what we have today. I think at this stage it is justified to pass a bar in the part of which there is a consensus and to continue the activities of reconciliation and consensus and in the part where it is not realistic to expect. When it comes to the number and duration of national and religious holidays, I think that number is too great for our opportunities and needs. I objectively think that the number of paid holidays in BiH should not be greater than 11 or 12, which is also appropriate for the number of holidays and opportunities. I think this law that regulates national and religious holidays also requires regulation of the rules of conduct at the time of the holiday. On the side that state holidays are celebrated somewhere and not celebrated somewhere, the fact that even where they are celebrated there are no prescribed rules of conduct, so that there can be no impression of the holiday atmosphere and where holidays are officially marked and celebrated, starts from the mark to the work of institutions, companies, shops and so forth. I also worry that the proposal by my counterpart Bećirović is a correct attempt to regulate this area and I think that the proposal to form an inter-resor working group that would try to reach a consensus on this, a full consensus on this issue, is a real need if we want to take a step further in reaching consensus on the overall solution of national and religious holidays. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-BA_2010-03-23-0.u33450	Thank you very much. Dear Ambassador Šefik Džaferović, replica. Here you go.
ParlaMint-BA_2010-03-23-0.u33451	I don't know what Mr. Dolić meant when he said that what was undeniable should be adopted as a law, and what was contentious let it continue to talk about, if I understood so. I think it actually hides all the trouble inside itself. Because if we do, then we have practically admitted that November 25th and March 1st are no longer holidays and that we are passing a new law. Because these dates are 36 holidays under the applicable laws, Mr Doliću, 25th and 1st, until the BiH state, post-day BiH or Dayton BiH adopts the holiday law. Whatever holiday law we bring, and there are no holidays, they are no more holidays. And that's the danger. And when you talk about these things, take care of it. I would have agreed a long time ago if we had agreed to some things here or many of us would have agreed to law if it hadn't been for this danger, which we saw: on November 25th and March 1st, the state holidays are according to the laws of the Republic of BiH and these laws apply on the principle of continuity of the rules under the Dayton Agreement, until the laws of Dayton BiH were passed.
ParlaMint-BA_2010-03-23-0.u33452	Dear Ambassador Rifat Dolić, please.
ParlaMint-BA_2010-03-23-0.u33453	I had no intention of saying this like Mr. Džaferović put it to me, as they say, in words. I intended to apostrophe the need to reach consensus on these issues, at least where possible. I haven't heard a lot of debaters here arguing on November 25th and some other holidays. I think this is the worst condition, and if we're nailed like this, we won't be solving these issues soon. And for that, I repeat again, that I find it justified to form an interresor working group to at least try to bring this issue into line, try to take a step further than what we here objectively have now done.
ParlaMint-BA_2010-03-23-0.u33454	Chairman Živković, discussion.
ParlaMint-BA_2010-03-23-0.u33455	Thank you. My fellow Members and fellow Members, let me allow you after an hour and a half of the discussion on this subject to say my opinion on the Bill's proposal, in a way that the Proposer said was being discussed here, in a serious way by some MPs and in a funny way by other MPs. Well, here, I'll allow myself the right to put both segments of this discussion into my discussion, access to this topic. In fact, the fact that the holiday law in this Parliamentary Assembly has come here in many different ways and that it has been discussed for days. And to that very fact that so far we have not been able to reach consensus, put the law back into practice, represents nothing more than one political act in a pre-election campaign and giving ourselves the right to take it as an exclusive of proposing these laws in some days or months or months. And it's not since yesterday, it's a known phenomenon and a well-known way of political action of the parties that have proposed this law. The SNSD said its position when the law came from the Council of Ministers. We said that this state needed law and we gave support to the law to which no one, and he went through all the procedure, by entities over 37 of the Interreligious Council, over, to say, all the factors involved and questioned about this law were no one against what was in that law. And we could have taken the first step when we talked about the principles of the law: adopt it in our first reading and possibly discuss amendments. To discuss what we have now lost an hour and a half and in some previous discussions and much more time. And to clarify the things that happened in the last war in BiH in the events in Yugoslavia, about the fact that no one got what they asked for, that we were all losers. And to talk about some dates that may be and be their place in this law, such as BiH's EU entry date, and to be a holiday that will be celebrated in a dignified and convenient manner throughout BiH's territory. That's what we could do and what we could find common ground, not that we could convince each other of what we know they wouldn't accept. We had no intention of convincing anyone who had already said their clear point of view here what we think is right. And we don't intend to do that. The only conclusion is that the Council of Ministers' law is in the process here again. It's the only possible conclusion after this debate. But here, when I said about a funny approach to this legislative project, since I think... that one political pamphlet of the SDP and nothing else, we're going to think about it in the club, I'm not sure we're going to accept the suggestion of a respected Jovičić, we're literally 55 amendments, let's say, prepared. We have also consulted the UN in terms of.... and their 50 holidays or internationally recognised holidays, which are marked in certain ways in countries, starting on January 27th - International Day of Remembrance of Holocaust Victims, we have said that we are not against that date, we have said what is the problem in RS, but we can talk about it, we are to mark it. UN Women's Rights Day and International Women's Day - March 8th, World Consumer Rights Day - March 15th, I can now take up half an hour to list you 50 amendments. If you want, I can say anything, but the Constitutional Commission will get the opportunity to declare all 50 amendments concerning international days, because I think these are very important days, because in the UN they said they were international holidays. Well, then I don't see any reason why BiH along with the International Migrant Day as the last marks December 18th, because it's a very important day. It's marked in the world. Why does BiH not, if it has the largest number of migrations, mark that day, because it is a day... At the same time, we have another group of amendments relating to this law that some days do not fit, or throw out. You probably know from the discussion that these are days. And we suggest to you, some will be recognized in that, especially it would be good to insert 26. 12th as Narcissus Day. It is known that this person is in love with himself and an opportunity for their fans to express their loyalty to their image and action. I believe they'll know who these people are, so we're going to have a very constructive way to approach this subject, because obviously, the Proposer also wanted this topic to be considered. Dear MP, Denis Bećirović Replic. Here you go.
ParlaMint-BA_2010-03-23-0.u33456	My colleague Živković, I want to talk very seriously about this law and this subject. And, seriously, I think it seems to me that it is necessary to copy the BiH Constitution and we have all sworn that we will respect it and that once again, if someone did not read it well, read Article I of the Constitution of BiH. Here I have him here, and to read Annex II. The Dayton Peace Agreement, when it comes to the continuity of the rules. 38 If necessary, we will also deliver the Official Messenger of BiH and, based on this forward, on what I said to see which laws we currently have under the Dayton Peace Agreement and the Constitution, because these laws were also signed by the President of the BiH Parliament, by chance again by the Serbian people. kolega Živković, you are the chairman of this House of Representatives. According to the Rules of Procedure, you make sure this house works. I assume you're using the experience of other parliaments to improve the work of this House. I'm just asking you to think about one thing. Each parliament takes this commission phase very seriously. All discussions coming to Parliament first pass reading in the commission phase. This is how the neighbouring parliaments and other European parliaments work and spend much less time at the sittings themselves. In this particular case today, the Constitutional Commission of this Parliament has not mostly voted in favour of this law unanimously. There are no representatives from the SDP in the Constitutional Commission, and you have as the SNSD Club of that representative in the Constitutional Legal Commission, and I remind you, the fact is that the Constitutional Commission has unanimously supported this law. I'm just asking if there are any parliaments in the world in which a thing is unanimously accepted in the previous commission phase, and then we have this debate at the session.
ParlaMint-BA_2010-03-23-0.u33457	Replica, Mr. Živković.
ParlaMint-BA_2010-03-23-0.u33458	First of all, your replica about quoting the Constitution was completely unnecessary, and I didn't speak a single word of it. What you're teaching, you can go out to Tuzlo or some other neighborhoods where that story passes and explain it to them again. Here, and those who said it was not in accordance with the Constitution and what we didn't mention, which is the preamble to the Constitution, but not to go into those questions because we're going to open up some more difficult questions that don't concern your law. So you shouldn't have talked about it at all, I wasn't talking about it. When it comes to the subject, I'll give my opinion, you probably already know it in advance. Secondly... I don't know if we read the same opinions in committees. The Constitutional Commission is 23. 2. with four votes for, two votes against and without abstentions accepted the principles of the bill. Then I don't know what you're talking about. So your replica was completely pointless, as is your proposal. Dear Ambassador Momčilo Novaković. Here you go.
ParlaMint-BA_2010-03-23-0.u33459	Nothing, I'm giving up. I just wanted to say the opinion of the Constitutional Commission, which is written there, but since it's already been said. 39
ParlaMint-BA_2010-03-23-0.u33460	Thank you. No more discussion. I'm closing the debate. Moving to the 20th point of the agenda: Ad. 20. Proposal for a Law amending the Law on Public Procurement of Bosnia and Herzegovina, Proposer: Constitutional Commission, Law No: 01-02-4-21/10 of 16. 2. 2010 (first reading) The Constitutional Commission passed the law in the ordinary parliamentary procedure 15. 2. The Constitutional Legislative Commission delivered its opinion on the constitutional basis 24. 2. The Commission responsible for finance and budget opinions on the principles of the law delivered 2. 3. The Directorate for European Integration delivered its Opinion 26. 2nd, and 16. 3. we also received the opinion of the Council of Ministers of BiH on the draft law, passed by the Public Procurement Agency of BiH. I'm opening a debate on the draft law in my first reading. Dear Ambassador Šefik Džaferović. Here you go.
ParlaMint-BA_2010-03-23-0.u33462	Mr. Chairman, colleagues and colleagues, on a request for authentic interpretation, we have been struggling for a long time in the Constitutional Commission, we have seen the problem but we were unable to decide at first how to act. We have estimated that this is a matter that must be specified, because according to existing solutions, the process of public procurement is slowing down, and together with the Office for the Review of Appeals and with the Agency, we have decided to propose to Parliament an amendment to this law, which is fully in line with the Constitutional Legal Commission. And, this amendment, therefore, is the result of the Constitutional Commission proposal after we have seen that there is no authentic interpretation, because it is applied retroactively to the Rules of Procedure. We believe that in this way much more order will enter into the public procurement process and speed up the public procurement process itself. That's it, thank you.
ParlaMint-BA_2010-03-23-0.u33463	Thank you. No more reports. I'm closing the debate. 40 We move to the 21st point of the agenda: Ad. 21. Proposal for Amendments II, III and IV to the Constitution of Bosnia and Herzegovina, Proposers: Members of the Party for Bosnia and Herzegovina, Amendment No: 01-01-10/10 of 15. 2. In 2010, with the opinion of the Constitutional Commission BiH Party for BiH MPs are 15. 2. have been delivered to the parliamentary procedure of Amendments II, III and IV and have been immediately delivered to all MPs, the BiH Presidency, the Council of Ministers of BiH and the Competent Constitutional Commission, in accordance with the Constitution and the Rules of Procedure. The relevant Constitutional Commission delivered its opinion on all amendments on 15.2. The Commission supported the constitutional basis, but did not support the principles of any amendment. So today we are discussing the Commission's opinion so if Dom accepts it, the amendments are being rejected; if it does not accept, the amendments are returning to this commission for review. I note that we declare each opinion of each amendment individually. I'm opening a debate. The second vice-president, Mr. Beriz Belkić, come in.
ParlaMint-BA_2010-03-23-0.u33465	Here I am going to say a few sentences on behalf of the promoter, the Party for BiH MPs' club. We are a little bit disappointed, let me tell you, with total non-interest, and even ignoring this initiative, because it's simply, after two months and some of the submission of this initiative and putting it into practice, it's not talked about the content of these amendments. So we were more concerned about what people do, what one party does, etc. But here's to me going back to the Rules of Procedure. So we are discussing the Commission's opinion. And it's true that according to Article 133. The Rules of Procedure and Amendments shall follow the basic legislative procedure where a negative opinion is foreseen. However, this report announced that we would hear it in the session itself. We don't mind that kind of variant. A brief comment. So, when it comes to the constitutional basis and the consistency of these amendments with the country's legal system, we have a question, a very simple question: If these are Amendment II. and III. having unanimous support on this issue of constitutional basis and compliance with the country's first system, why not also receive amendment IV.? So the amazing and surprising thing is that an amendment that has been put into practice in accordance with the same constitution goes through the procedure in exactly the same way, probably because someone doesn't like it, is disqualified by one part of the members of this committee, to be precise. But that's pretty surprising. Something about principles. So, in addition to standard principles, when it comes to legislative projects and amendments, therefore generally accepted principles in practice, we have tried to apply some specific ones here, bearing in mind the seriousness and specificity of the matter itself. So we have managed the principle that we have a fundamental implementation of the European Court of Human Rights verdict and that we move 41 within the framework of the judgment. So that's the principle we stuck to other than the usual principles, when it comes to legal projects. We think that the proposed amendments and formally and essentially ensure the equal position of citizens to choose and run, i.e. to be elected to the legislative and executive power of BiH, regardless of nationality, which is therefore the requirement of judgment. We have gone one step further, the proposed solution eliminates discrimination against members of constituent peoples living in the wrong, under quotes, entity. So, discrimination on the territory. And we were doing this in 2006 when we ran for a man who lives in the RS who is Bošnjak, Dr. Pilav for a member of the Presidency and, when he was rejected by the Central Election Commission, that case is, that I am not bothering you with it, at the European Court of Human Rights and we expect that a situation similar to that of Sejdić and Fincije will happen and that is why we have eliminated these amendments and that kind of discrimination. So, the solutions offered... essentially achieve the elimination of this discrimination and Amendment II. and III. do not come out of the framework of the verdict of Finc – Sejdić and at the same time resolve this future verdict, when it comes to it, we expect, of course, when it comes to Pilav. With each amendment, I think they explain the essence of the amendment and I'm not taking up your time, so to speak, we've presented it wherever we could, at certain meetings, conferences, and I think you know what this is about. Of course, I'm ready for questions. Amendment IV. So, apart from our general views when it comes to entity voting and why we consider it unnecessary, so functionality, decision-making, etc., in our opinion, also contains one specific kind of inequality. When it comes to MPs in this house, we therefore appreciate that it is not the office that members, regardless of what it is about entity voting, but in practice, it has kind of become an ethnic vote. So, we believe that a number of MPs in this House in the House of Representatives are in an unequal position when the possibility of using these amendments is possible. I mean members of the Croatian House of Representatives. And finally, not to take much time, why this party for BiH did and why we launched this initiative in early January. It just shows every day that we were right. I'm not talking about content right now, I'm talking about the practical dimension. So these amendments really have a real chance of procedurally reaching certain deadlines. So they've already gone down the stage. The second variant we talked about here and discussed, etc. It's being implemented with a lot of trouble. We are only from the second – the third attempt was successful in establishing this task force. She started working. We will only face each other seriously on Monday, where the Council of Ministers, where the procedure is, and on May 6th, the ambitious deadlines are very close. So I ask you to pay attention to the content of these amendments to each and every one of us, of course, with the possibility of intervention, to return to this commission and to preserve the theoretical opportunity to make the European Court of Human Rights a verdict. Thank you. 42
ParlaMint-BA_2010-03-23-0.u33466	Thank you. Dear Ambassador Šefik Džaferović.
ParlaMint-BA_2010-03-23-0.u33467	Mr. Chairman, colleagues and colleagues, ladies and gentlemen, it is my turn as chairman of the Constitutional Commission to say a few sentences when amendments to the Constitution are at stake. So, from the report you see what this commission was doing. The amendments didn't get support. The two amendments received support on the constitutional basis, and one amendment did not receive that kind of support, and none of the amendments received support when it comes to principles. And maybe I don't need to say anything more on the subject, because if you don't have a political agreement, if you can't even have parliamentary support, it's obvious that these amendments aren't the result of a political agreement, but they're the proposal of a political party, and then we have the kind of situation we have. And I don't want to, so it is legitimate for everyone to submit amendments, to make their views about amending the Constitution through the amendments, but we also need to know that amendments can pass here in Parliament and the Constitutional Commission only if there is appropriate parliamentary support, or an appropriate parliamentary majority. We learned that, and I think it amortises a lot of things inside BiH. When we talk about content itself, I personally don't mind any of these amendments. I think that the solutions offered, let's say, in the April package and in the Butmir package, especially in Butmir, and solutions that are more suitable for the situation in BiH and which in one, I would say, are better at implementing the European Court of Human Rights verdict, but these solutions are not in themselves enough, but these solutions require intervention and when it comes to jurisdiction because it is not possible to intervene in the way one institution chooses and change the concept and leave the same competences. And when you question jurisdiction, then it's a whole package, then it's an arrest of the Council of Ministers. If you enter the structure of the House of People, then you must enter the structure of the House of Representatives, it is not possible to increase the number in the House of People and leave the same number in the House of Representatives. The ratios here are very important. Among other things, and the ratios due to the civic ethnic principle, so one package is still needed here. That's what I was talking about. The colleagues who feel the need to talk about the reasons they voted against these amendments will talk about it. There are good things here. It's a good thing to promote the entire state as one electoral unit, but here's why it's necessary to reach an agreement. The only thing we've done in BiH so far, the highest degree of political agreement was about the April package, and we'll be back sooner or later, remember what I told you. We can lose four years, we can lose four more years, but eventually we'll get back to it. Butmir was trying to get back to it. And in this way we will best implement the European Court of Human Rights ruling and all that BiH needs at this stage of constitutional reform. That's it, thank you. 43
ParlaMint-BA_2010-03-23-0.u33468	Thank you. Replica, the second deputy chairman, Mr. Beriz Belkić.
ParlaMint-BA_2010-03-23-0.u33469	Well, you see, Mr. Džaferović, today our amendments are on the agenda. So, the amendments that are on the table. It's not Butmir, it's not the package, it's not the package. So, I'm asking you to discuss these amendments of ours. And when it comes to those variants that you're talking about, they have exactly the same status. So they are the initiative of a party who must also provide adequate support for them. So we're on the same page. And let's talk today about these amendments that are proposed.
ParlaMint-BA_2010-03-23-0.u33470	Dear Ambassador Remzija Kadrić, discussion. Here you go.
ParlaMint-BA_2010-03-23-0.u33471	I thank you, Chairman. I was at a session of the Constitutional Commission when we discussed the proposal of these amendments. And unfortunately, in the session itself, more discussed what Belkić was talking about, more discussed, discussed, mentioned the principles of the April package than the principles of these amendments. And the result is that the Constitutional Commission, when it comes to this amandman I. with three votes in favour of, five votes against, one abstention -- did not accept the principles. That is the situation with Amandman ii and Amandman III, the Constitutional Commission said, with four votes in favour, five against and no abstentions -- it did not accept the principles. So, at that session of the Constitutional Commission, unfortunately, there was more discussion about something that was not the subject of the debate and which should not be discussed on the Constitutional Commission. Things speak for themselves. For these reasons, what Mr Belkić has suggested, therefore, should return these amendments to the Constitutional Commission that we are here, because we have not yet received any valid explanation as to why the principles of these amendments have not been accepted. Besides, like, there's no political agreement. Why the principles of these amendments were not discussed, and for what reasons the principles are unacceptable. Let us be told here in the House, let us be orally explained, explain why the principles of these terms are not acceptable.
ParlaMint-BA_2010-03-23-0.u33472	Dear Ambassador Halid Genjac, come in. 44
ParlaMint-BA_2010-03-23-0.u33473	Thank you. Any ambition of an amendment that arises at this time should meet about three conditions, three requirements. One of the requirements is the functionality of institutions at BiH level because it is a requirement from the EU Progress Report on BiH. The second requirement is to implement the Court's ruling in Strasbourg and the third requirement is not to challenge a new disharmony in respect of respect for human rights. So that's those three demands. Whatever initiative appears, it should ensure that these requirements are met. And that is why it is important and cannot be challenged by anyone's right to think about the initiatives they once were, especially if these initiatives contained meeting these conditions. Now, do these amendments meet these conditions? You really need to look back to discuss these amendments. As for Amendment III, concerning the position of the BiH presidency, the good news is that one electoral unit is being introduced, with four members ensuring the representation of others, however, in terms of the functionality of the institutions, this is very questionable. But what I mean is, pay attention to this amendment, so the question is destruction by the vital interest of the entity. Each member of the Bureau may express destruction in the interest of the entity. It has been said before that at least one member of the presidency is elected from one space, where it is registered as a voter in that entity. And theoretically, since the decision on the vital interest of the entities in RS was moved from the National Assembly to the Council of Nations, then the following situation is theoretically possible: that only one member of the RS presidency could be from the RS, that this member of the RS presidency could express destruction in the vital interest of the entity and that only one club in the RS could be declared. So, theoretically, this amendment allows the situation to arise: for only one nation in one entity can express itself about the destruction of the vital interest of the entity. I don't think that's good. Of course, this brings with it some other implications that the promoter probably did not intend to do, but this amendment allows that assumption because, if a member from that territory has given the statement, so from the RS, when it comes to the Council of Nations, such a declaration will be confirmed within 10 days of the handover by a two-thirds majority of the votes of the delegates from the order of the same constituent people, as well as by a member of the Presidency who passed the declaration. So it's a possible situation. When it comes to Amendment II. which refers to the House of Peoples, is also introduced 'Club of Others', which allows for some, and is one way to implement the Court of Justice's verdict in Strasbourg, there are other ways, but remains the House of Peoples in full capacity, and this is actually a matter of turning the House of People into another House of Representatives with another club. From the aspect of functionality, it's questionable. From the aspect of the institution's functionality, that's questionable. So, these are some of the objections to the amendments and their content.
ParlaMint-BA_2010-03-23-0.u33474	Thank you. Dear Ambassador Rifat Dolić. Here you go. 45
ParlaMint-BA_2010-03-23-0.u33475	Gentlemen chairman, colleagues and colleagues, distinguished guests, allow me to present several of my observations on the amendment to the BiH Constitution. First of all, the implementation of the Court of Human Rights ruling in Strasbourg in the Sejdić-Finc case is definitely a direct or indirect obligation for BiH, and from that aspect, the amendment promoter deserves recognition for his efforts to make amendments and put them into parliamentary procedure. What I can't even understand in this pre-election time is the fact that such an important item, such as the amendments to the BiH Constitution, is being placed in a procedure without any consensus within the parliamentary majority. This gives the impression that the issue of the implementation of the Court of Human Rights ruling in Strasbourg and the submission of amendments to the Constitution has been used as a convenient topic in this warm-up for the pre-election campaign. This approach, in which political point lies ahead of the importance of the issue itself, unfortunately, is a regular style of work of parliamentary majority parties and I think it is one of the reasons and inefficient and irrational work of this home. Without intending to give anyone a political sermon, I think it was logical that a consensus be reached first of all within the parliamentary majority on principles and the very model that the Court of Justice's verdict in Strasbourg is proposed here. I think that the principles and model of resolving issues that treat amendments to the Constitution, at least, even for our occasions, are irrational even though they cannot be challenged by the legal basis and legitimacy. At a time when the whole world and all rational people are alluding to the irrationality and inefficiencies of the BiH institution of three presidents, or three members of the presidency, this model includes the introduction of the fourth president. I do not disrespect this judgment of the Court of Justice in Strasbourg, but this is the way it is implemented and some arguments in the amendment – they certainly do. From an inappropriate extreme, discrimination against a group of citizens that we have called in the Constitution, in the choice of members of the BiH presidency, this amendment addresses the issue in the extreme, I would say, an irrational way. I think at this point there was a more rational and efficient reduction of the tripartite presidency to one of the presidents of the state, to his indirect election and to his duties in the protocol frameworks. An ethnic rotation including the category of others would be performed from one to the other four-year electoral cycle or within one cycle. The proposed amendments to the BiH Constitution, I do not think the Court of Justice's ruling in Strasbourg is being implemented in the section concerning the election of the House of Peoples' House of Parliamentary Assembly leadership, as the practical category of others remains discriminated. So, I think the implementation of the Court's judgment in Strasbourg in the Sejdić-Finc case is as proposed in these amendments incomplete, for this reason, irrational and ineffective. Therefore, I am not personally inclined to support the principles and model on which these amendments to the BiH Constitution rest. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-BA_2010-03-23-0.u33476	Thank you. Dear Ambassador Milica Marković. Here you go. 46
ParlaMint-BA_2010-03-23-0.u33477	Thank you, Mr. Chairman. First of all, I would say about the amendments tabled to the BiH Constitution, i.e. agreeing with previous speakers, that it is a completely unnecessary and absurd situation to submit amendments, and the submission of amendments to the existing constitution in one country is an extremely important activity and work to be done by a state parliament. I therefore believe that the submission of amendments and entry into this procedure without the political consent of the parties who should possibly do this job is total adventure and, in my view, it is purely one, let me say, pre-election activity. I don't know why it's necessary on the Constitution to do a club of MPs who did it? But that's how it is and we have in the procedure now submitted amendments. Another thing I would like to say, which is also of principle nature, is that it is unacceptable for the SNSD Club that the three amendments to the Constitution are undermining all three that this is the need that BiH must implement according to the European Court of Human Rights ruling in the case of Sejdić-Finc. That's not true, simply. We all know what this verdict is about, we know it speaks about national minorities, opportunities and rights that should be allowed to be run, to be elected. The third amendment included here, therefore, Amendment IV does not apply to this, and entity voting has nothing to do with the European Court's ruling. Not to mention that this situation is similar to what we had with the previous agenda point when it came to this holiday law: that when you do not have political consent, it is pointless to expect that something will be done. Or, if you think you pick up the political points, then those points are cheap, or they're completely small and reduced, so it's not worth going into such a job for small points, I don't know one, one or two statements that will be made in public. What is said in Amendment II where the presidency is required to expand with another representative is completely unacceptable, with the knowledge and truth that we all know that both foreign and domestic public consider the state apparatus BiH very expensive. And so we all know that this is so, that we have a number of governments, ministers, parliaments, all we have, but that's our reality, and so it has to be in BiH, and now, to expand from three to four members of the Presidency, I think it's just right for someone from the public and other countries who see it to smile sweetly on such a one proposal. amandman III, which requires the selection of delegates in the House of Peoples – therefore, it also says how adventurous it is, when you do it without the consent of the parties who should support it and vote on it – therefore, here it is proposed to delegate to the House of Nations that it is no longer done by the National Assembly, but done by the Council of Nations. I mean no comment, I'd just say. If you do not have the consent of the RS political parties to do so, then it is pointless why you propose it. And finally, amandman IV, which requires that part of Article III be deleted. from the Constitution of the Chapter, a member which is stated therefore refers to an entity's vote. All of us here are aware that constitutional reform is an urgent obligation BiH must make. It is urgent in the sense that the provisions of the European Court of Human Rights are implemented, but it is also necessary, that it should be done, which is likely to be told, there will be post-election talks and, of course, those who receive legitimacy and who receive voter confidence. 47 But I can now say, on behalf of the club and on my own behalf, that in no matter what the story, no matter what parts the constitutional reform refers to, whether certain state institutions, the Council of Ministers, the ministries already have what, I will not now open these issues, but be convinced that no story will ever be included on the agenda, while RS representatives in this House of BiH participate. So, there you can be absolutely sure that no constitutional reform will go through where it goes into entity voting, or where entity voting is being touched. I agree with Mr Belkić in the explanation that he said, well, entity voting has been running as an amendment to the Constitution because Croatian people do not have that legitimacy in the state parliament to protect themselves or protect their national issues in some way by entity voting, if I have interpreted you well. But please, the Croatian people in BiH have their legitimate representatives in all state institutions, and it is odd that the Party for BiH has now made sure to ensure equality and the Croatian people in the BiH Parliament. No one should worry too much, there are legitimately elected representatives who will run it. Whether it is an entity vote that should be made possible for them, whether it is the third entity in this country to allow Hrvat to do so. But I find it strange that the Party for BiH was very concerned about it, but I don't think it's a sincere concern and a sincere interest in providing certain rights to one people in BiH through an entity vote, but I think it's a simple improvisation, so under that defined and that finding some things get through and saying, here, we want a fully democratic state, we want the representation of rights to all nations and national minorities, but don't forget that all those who talk and say that they need to know that they exist in Parliament here and that we all know how to read from the ranks but also between the lines. Thank you.
ParlaMint-BA_2010-03-23-0.u33478	Thank you. The second vice-president, Mr. Beriz Belkić, is a replica. Here you go.
ParlaMint-BA_2010-03-23-0.u33479	Mrs. Marković, there's nothing between the lines. So, I'm completely clear and open-minded. First, when I mentioned the entity vote, so I said it was just a motive, an additional motive. Absolutely not the hypocrisy of the BiH Party and the sudden concern for someone here. Everyone knows how to take care of themselves. I said the following: except for the general reasons that the Party for BiH points out and that is our strategic commitment to reform entity voting, such as your strategic commitment not to reform it. I said, so other than the common motives and reasons, functionality, efficiency, etc., entity voting contains one form of inequality when it comes to MPs. So, I apologize to the MPs of the Croatian people for using it at all. That's one thing. Second, adventure, pre-election campaign!? Please, we've been very abstentioned and talked very little about the metrics of these amendments that are two and a half months in the procedure, for the first time here I'm talking. It's the first time I've spoken here. Please, Mr. Dolić, give me an amendment for one president, you have eight votes from the BiH Party right away. One constituency, one president. Give me the amendment right now. We're pulling ours. We're voting for you. 48 I ask you to clarify one thing about adventure, seriousness and unseriousness, political agreement. Tell me who made the political deal, we withdraw the amendments immediately. Just let me know that he has a political agreement to implement the European Court of Human Rights verdict. We'll apologize here and withdraw the amendments. Just let me know that 28 MPs have a political agreement on the solutions we've heard here, we're pulling the same second.
ParlaMint-BA_2010-03-23-0.u33480	Thank you. Replica, Reverend Mirko Okolić. Here you go.
ParlaMint-BA_2010-03-23-0.u33481	Thank you, Mr. Chairman. Replica is a respected colleague, Milica Marković, and a respected counterpart, Belkić. And for us, the strategy and the strategic goal is that entity voting is not at all the subject of the debate, and it's known about the SDS and we don't give up on that. However, Mrs Marković repeated on several occasions that she is sure that the MPs of the RS will support or not support certain views and I wouldn't exactly dare say that, or you don't need to. You can speak on behalf of the SNSD MP and on behalf of the others, you don't need to speak, that's what we're going to say. So it's our position when it comes to entity voting, it's known, and we're behind it, and we're not going to give any support to anything about being touched. And as for Mr. Belkić, just to point out, it may have been a lapus in his story, but for further information, it has nothing to do with the peoples, it has to do with the entities. There's only so much because you said that the unequal peoples are in that entity vote. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-BA_2010-03-23-0.u33482	Dear Ambassador Milica Marković, respond to the replica.
ParlaMint-BA_2010-03-23-0.u33483	netačan quote, Mr. Chairman. Mr. Okolić, you need to listen a little better when someone's talking and you need to concentrate a little bit better. Maybe I talked a little longer, so you couldn't follow everything. I didn't say at any point that representatives from the RS would support some things or not support them. I said that after the election, there might be some topics that will be discussed, and I am not going to open these issues that will be related to constitutional reform. Whether these are state institutions, what, but surely, listen well now, but it is certain that neither of the representatives of the RS in this BiH Parliament will support the story of entity voting after October elections. That's what I said. I'm telling you now. So your replica is completely pointless and unfounded. So that's what I said and now I'm saying it again. And a little better in the future, especially when I'm talking to her, you better listen not to take unnecessary replicas. 49
ParlaMint-BA_2010-03-23-0.u33484	Dear Ambassador Mirko Okolić, reply to the line. Here you go.
ParlaMint-BA_2010-03-23-0.u33485	Well, who doesn't have the right to reply to Mrs. Marković, see the rich, I didn't know that, let me see what she's excluded from others. But let me tell you, I've listened very well and I'm looking for a stenogram. Say, maybe I'll quote you completely, but like this, "I'm sure no one from RS will support that" and we'll look for a stenogram and see if you said so. Furthermore, you have repeated this for the entity vote and in previous points you have said it, you have repeated it also now so that no one will support you in the next session, and I ask you the question: 'How are you sure when we may have in the next assembly of MPs from the RS from the order of the Bosniak or Croatian peoples or some other peoples or peoples?' And don't say that. You may and may have the right and legitimacy to claim on behalf of your boss, if you have been given this right, on behalf of the SNSD MPs, but you can't fool the public that everyone in RS, when I'm not sure about it, and I'm saying it's not so that all our listeners and viewers who are going to read this, or readers tomorrow, will say that what you're saying is true, and it's not true. They must know that we now have two RS MPs who are mostly now voting with BiH Federation entity MPs. And you have to know that. It can't be said like that, then it's quite the opposite of what it is now. So in the future, you said again that you were sure that I wanted to deny you, and I listened very well, and we can also check that in the stenogram if you're interested. And in the end, I have no reason to rephrase to you, or to direct the line, excuse me, better said, or any other MP, because I have not, in my own replica, derogated or offended you in the least. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-BA_2010-03-23-0.u33486	Dear Ambassador Milica Marković, replica.
ParlaMint-BA_2010-03-23-0.u33487	Two, and I won't have them anymore on this agenda. Well, look, Mr. Okolić, I've come from a presumption, and perhaps I wasn't right that all MPs who are Srbin from the RS can't support putting on the agenda stories about entity voting in the BiH Parliament. Now you've brought me here a little...
ParlaMint-BA_2010-03-23-0.u33488	No microphone 50 turned on
ParlaMint-BA_2010-03-23-0.u33489	Please, I've been listening to you. Don't come into my word. It may not be disputed for the SDS after October, as you say -- it may not be disputed to open the subject of entity voting. We also know that some RS parties have said that and perhaps not so much to use entity voting in the BiH Parliament, but that has never been said by the SNSD. And here, I'll be maybe now, in that part I can accept you correcting something you said, say, so we can't vouch for the SDS, but for the SNSD we can certainly guarantee that they'll never accept the story of entity voting in connection with constitutional reforms.
ParlaMint-BA_2010-03-23-0.u33490	Here's another one from RS, the honourable MP, Remzija Kadrić. Here you go.
ParlaMint-BA_2010-03-23-0.u33491	Oh, now a little Milica Marković. Why so much fear when it comes to this entity's vote and protection of entity voting?
ParlaMint-BA_2010-03-23-0.u33492	So because you...
ParlaMint-BA_2010-03-23-0.u33493	Wait a minute, please.
ParlaMint-BA_2010-03-23-0.u33494	So here I fully agree, Mirko Okolić was well replicated in that part. I agree with him. But I don't know why so much fear. It's probably justifiable fear, so entity voting is really at stake, it will probably be lifted as soon as possible.
ParlaMint-BA_2010-03-23-0.u33495	Dear Ambassador Vinko Zorić, replica. Here you go.
ParlaMint-BA_2010-03-23-0.u33496	I answered to replicate Mr. Okolić. In fact, he said at one point that, whether or not, two Bošnjak from the RS usually vote together with representatives from the Federation, as if it were some kind of collective vote. I always vote here individually. And on the other hand, I always vote here on my keyboard, and I'm not on some federal keyboard. 51 And on the other hand, I don't think it's correct to replicate my colleague Marković for one reason only. She made a futuristic statement. And no one can say it's true or it's not true. After the elections, she said: and maybe all 14 MPs elected to RS will be SNSD. Here's what I'm saying now: futuristic. Maybe it'll be everyone from SNSD. And why wouldn't she say so? So it's not correct for futuristic statements here to correct that they're accurate or incorrect and replicate, you know.
ParlaMint-BA_2010-03-23-0.u33497	Let's go now with the discussions. Dear Ambassador Okolić is right, you had two replicas.
ParlaMint-BA_2010-03-23-0.u33498	No, I didn't.
ParlaMint-BA_2010-03-23-0.u33499	How you didn't have one. You have the right to discuss. Dear Ambassador Branko Dokić, discussion. Here you go.
ParlaMint-BA_2010-03-23-0.u33500	Thank you, Mr. Chairman. I answered the discussion more because of a message I'm going to say in the end, but I'm going to make an introduction about these amendments. Of course, every party has the right to propose; whether or not it will pass, that's their business. But I'd say we can't accept these amendments in principle. First of all, we all expected the amendments to the ruling to Finci – Sejdić. This is where it came out of that frame, it's one disagreement with the principle. Secondly, we at the PDP are against introducing a fourth member of the Bureau for already known reasons. The Finci-Sejdić ruling does not say Srbin, Hrvat, Bošnjak and others must be represented in the presidency, but says they must have the same right to be elected, etc. So, in this context, we will also push for constitutional changes in BiH. We do not agree with the principle that BiH is one electoral unit for members of the presidency. So, in this respect, we stand in the position that this should remain the way it is, that one member is elected from the RS, that two members of the Presidency are elected from the territory of the Federation of BiH, with no more than one representative of the three constituent peoples and others in the presidency. So they're also given the opportunity. And the third principle that we disagree with, we cannot accept it, is how delegates are elected in the House of Peoples. So we stand in the position that the way of choice should remain as 52 is. We believe that there is a need to increase the number of delegates compared to what is proposed in this amendment. But here, in front of all of you, I would like to trouble one question that we will have on the agenda within this committee that is formed, and that is whether including others in the House of Peoples, derrogates the basic definition of the House of Peoples. I think that this is a very challenging issue that we need to address within this working group that does not, of course, solve this proposal either. So does including three constituent nations violate the basic definition of the House of Nations? And what is my message in the end, I would really like all MPs in this House as well as delegates in this second home to give full support to those who have been elected to this task force formed by the Council of Ministers on Amendments and Supplements to the Constitution of BiH, and in accordance with the ruling we have already mentioned and to finish this job on time. That may be, not perhaps, but at this point, the biggest political issue for BiH. And I am convinced that if there is a good will that can be done in this short time and changes that will completely resolve the issue that is problematicd in the judgment itself. And I forgot to comment, Mr. Belkić, I wish Mr. Belkić could hear me, I forgot to comment on that third amendment. You know what we call an entity vote is one of the six principles of the Dayton Peace Agreement. Then when we give up the Dayton Peace Accords, if we give up, then principles can be troubled, on the one hand. On the other hand, you know well that the composition of the Dayton Agreement's House of Representatives has to date been such that every proposal, everything voted on, could have stopped in the first vote, not at all using that procedure called the entity vote, because now there are 22 of you, which is the supra-al majority. So if something doesn't go half way through, there's no further story. I'd ask you to keep that in mind when you're talking about this. On the side of what it turned out to be. There are two entities in this house and every entity has the right to protect its interests. The entity vote is one of the kinds of protection of these interests that we consider necessary in the BiH Constitution.
ParlaMint-BA_2010-03-23-0.u33501	Thank you. Replica, honourable Ambassador Adem Huskić. Here you go.
ParlaMint-BA_2010-03-23-0.u33502	Thank you. I also thank Mr. Dokić for saying in his first sentence that he felt that he was correct in submitting amendments and supporting such an approach, that's okay. But you know what, it seems to me that we're all talking for nothing here, because everyone comes with some preconception and nobody listens to anyone and just waits for someone to throw a pen at him so he can replicate and extend the session. At least today we're talking about what we wrote here, we almost didn't even talk about it, about the measure of things or the principles. 53 Look, there has been an assessment here that the Party for BiH has done for some political reasons, for cheap points etc. I'm a member of the Constitutional Commission. The first question after counterpart Kadrić met members of this commission as a representative of the proposal was whether you are asking to vote individually on each amendment or in the package. Here, if we wanted to deal with what's now being attributed to us, we could say that we're asking you to plead on all three amendments as a package and we would know that they will be rejected. It was a provocation. I think the only reason some members of the Constitutional Commission voted against the amendments is simply to say, in one word stubborn, without any explanation. And I even think they agree with that, they simply didn't want to support it. Not because it's wrong, which they disagree with, but because they didn't suggest it, but because someone else suggested it. And that's grief. It's our tragedy. So, I repeat, that we wanted to make calculations of some, to collect points, to make a story out of it, we could have gone public a hundred times and said that we had offered amendments within the deadline that allowed it to implement the Court of Human Rights ruling from Strasbourg and that they were rejected on the Constitutional Commission and to talk about who voted it all, and what he asked, etc., we didn't do it. And I think that in his discussion, Belkić was the first to say very nicely and correctly what he was thinking, which is why we started it, which is why he thinks it's good and finally said that here we are open to all interventions. Anything you think is better that can be fixed, we'll accept. And I'm asking you to talk about the measure of things, if we want to finish the job. If not, then it's a different matter. Thank you.
ParlaMint-BA_2010-03-23-0.u33503	Thank you. Let's continue the discussion. Dear Ambassador Martin Raguž. Here you go.
ParlaMint-BA_2010-03-23-0.u33504	I thank you, Mr. President. Because everyone, before they say anything, says the reason they're applying for a hearing, so let me say it. I'm applying for the importance of this agenda point. And, before I say anything about HDZ's position in 1990, I will say that I honestly had no doubt at all that there was one serious and responsible proposal and that he had no ambition to be used for either daily or party or election purposes. That's how I experienced this proposal from the BiH Party. And I don't think we need a story about that, we need a story about the solution that was offered here. And be careful, in what is said in the reasoning of the verdict, it is said that the discretionary right of every country, in this case BiH, is to offer the modality to remove discrimination, or violation. And it means up to us, to BiH to determine these modalities. The BiH party has defined 54 for this proposal, introducing a fourth member of the presidency. It's one of the possible proposals, one of the possible modes. That's how it's supposed to be. What's he carrying with him? It carries several elements that mean de facto further consent to relationships. It speaks politically when it comes to the presidency, and I will remind you, therefore, that the central precondition for peace in Dayton was to divide positions in the key state institution, the BiH presidency, between representatives of the three constituent nations. The central precondition has already been violated in its application through the elections so far. And I will also not bring good intentions into question when it comes to ensuring the legitimate election of the Croatian presidency member, which here, in the light of these amendments from the Party for BiH, is said, but I must tell you that the current direct election of members of the Presidency, two of which are elected by the Federation, one from the RS, in this way, means that there are no guarantees that the legitimate will and the Croatian people will be provided as one of the three constituent peoples in the election of members of the Presidency, so that this proposal does not eliminate it either. It's a relationship to this proposal when it comes to it. So we are in favour of an indirect election of members of the BiH Parliamentary Assembly, because we believe that BiH should go from the presidency to a parliamentary system in which the Council of Ministers and Governments will strengthen and otherwise parliamentary democracy and the rule of law and that this is the future of this country. And within that concept, surely one first step should mean a change in the way in which members of the Presidency are elected and a change in the relationship of jurisdiction in which Parliament and the Council of Ministers, or government, would strengthen. Second thing, we've heard a lot about entity voting here. I will not deny neither the importance nor the legitimate right to keep that institute and instrument, nor that it is one of the important principles of Dejton, it all stands. But also the fact is that 15 years from Dejton to today all the analyses show that the House of Representatives, or entity vote in the House of Representatives, has turned into an ethnic vote and that the Institute of Protection of Vital National Interest in 15 years has used only four times in the House of Peoples. And unfortunately, we don't even have a situation there to have a real protection mechanism when it comes to one constituent people, so one of the three constituent nations has a double mechanism of protection through entity and ethnic, one through most. And without removing this discriminatory position, we cannot accept at all the story of ad hoc implementation of the verdict. So, the second prerequisite if you truly want to talk about equality is to change the way you decide in the House of Peoples of the Parliamentary Assembly of BiH. And you know that this is not the question from today, that we have had several attempts at a April package, the Butmir Process, the initiative that we have also submitted for a new constitution. I think that until a new constitution is adopted on which BiH has democratic right and I think that no one in the world, regardless of all relevant international conventions and specifics and approaches of interest policy, can deny this country the right to one day receive a democratic constitution, not as I speak but as a democratic constitution, adopted in this parliament, in the Parliamentary Assembly of BiH, let us not be told that we are collateral damage as the Croatian people of some earlier agreements, because me and my political generation will never accept legalisation and such situations from earlier in the new political circumstances. So I think this question is a lot more serious than they're trying to treat him right now, so let's hurry up because we're going to be sanctioned. I think it is time to have a serious 55 conversation and I expect that through this action plan all important concepts will be exposed, legitimate to democratically respecting each other by building a functional, fair, sustainable structure that will not question anyone, yet which will give a strong enough framework for this country to move forward rather than stagnating as it has so far. That's why we can't support these solutions. I think that these days we're going to have a chance to determine ourselves according to some other solutions, but the whole point of the story is that there are no partial solutions here, but one serious, responsible procedure that will move all of this forward together. Thank you.
ParlaMint-BA_2010-03-23-0.u33505	Thank you. Dear Professor Ekrem Ajanović. Here you go.
ParlaMint-BA_2010-03-23-0.u33506	Mr. President, colleagues and colleagues, there are two solutions in front of BiH and before us. One solution is to make and address the problem of human rights before the elections and certainly the problem of the Court's decision in Strasbourg, which is common and what is needed. Because otherwise the elections without it would be illegal and this is one of the solutions he's offering. The second is certainly the choice Parliament can make, which is the long-term path to extend the mandate to this home and then to leave time for us to go to a quality solution and to adopt a completely new BiH constitution. However, in some countries and for the third time, it is as in Switzerland that the parliament elected legally in the elections: he does his job, elections are being held regularly, while so-called elections are being chosen at the same time. A constitutional assembly that is working parallelly to the amendment of the Constitution. These amendments are very high-quality, good, and they had a goal and a task to make it possible for the easiest solution to come to something that would correct the mistake that exists in the BiH Constitution, which is a violation of human rights. If they would not accept themselves or if they were to go some other way, today certain speakers who spoke, I have the impression and the conclusion that a solution is to again be sought for people who are not from the order of constituent peoples to be in some way political fraud, which would not be good and what would not be good to do. As far as these amendments are concerned, these amendments are given individually, so II, III, IV, so we'll start, here I'll start with the first amendment, and that's amandman II.. It solves the existing situation on the principle that already exists in the Constitution, which means that the three constituent nations form the Presidency and that it adds certainly the choice of a new member of the Presidency, which is from the order of others, and thus brings the solution, as Raguž said, the solution that the Court of Justice has made in Strasbourg, and I think that this is the best way for BiH as a complex state, the most qualitative way to resolve this issue. There are some here who mention the butmirski Agreement and the way of adoption, that is, the election of members of the Bureau. There are some who say that BiH does not need the presidency but should be one president, etc., I must say that a state like BiH as a very complex state should remain with the Presidency, no matter how expensive it will cost, because 56 a man is not as much as 500 MPs in various parliaments and in various laws, and I don't know, 300 ministers in various governments, and time has shown that the only stable factor, the only stable body that exists in BiH is that it is the Presidency. I'd like to answer Rifat Dolić right away. If BiH had a president instead of the presidency, then your President Abdić would have torn BiH apart and back in '92. the year he created an autonomous province, because in such cases, for those who think that he should be president in BiH and that this president is elected in Parliament by the crusade I to you, you to me, they are wrong, this is not the way BiH chooses. And everyone needs to know that. And the international community needs to know that. So, the stability of the state, its sustainability, its sovereignty is guarded by the BiH presidency, and the reason is that the state is complex and complex not only on the principle of constitutional peoples but also on the principle of current administrative solutions in this country. And those who answer to the election of one president, and that in Parliament only corresponds to those who dreamt or worked for KOS and who worked long ago, have long considered how to end the existence of BiH as a state. Well, that's probably not gonna happen. And to tell you the truth, at least as much as it is in the power of those who don't want it to happen, they'll certainly try not to create or to bring it in. The past war experience here tells us that the BiH state would have fallen apart if it hadn't had a presidency. Parliament fell apart in one night. The government has fled to which, and the presidency has maintained the sovereignty and continuity of the BiH state. And that fact should never be forgotten, if at least no one but the patriots of BiH, and above all, the Bošnjak who died in this war more than all the other peoples. The second thing, I think it's about amandman III.. around the House of Nations is the right solution. We can't just formally satisfy that someone has the right to run without ever being elected, and that if we don't introduce that there is no House of Peoples and that we can't choose a certain number of minorities, then we're not really, we've played the Court of Human Rights, we've played the Convention on Human Rights, we've played what we're now and we're in a hurry to solve this issue before the election. There should be a number of people in the House of Peoples... who are not of the constituent peoples. And this amendment solves it. It solves it in a fair way, which is that representatives in the House of Peoples are elected by the clubs of the people in the RS and the clubs of the people in the Federation, which means the basic principle that clubs are chosen, and not by someone else, which is certainly respected in the amendments. My personal position... which normally every man may have the right, if I were to ask myself, I would also have representatives in the House of Peoples to choose in direct elections and that every nation chooses its own representative, and of course others to choose the others. It would then be the real House of Peoples where the electoral unit would be the whole of BiH and where one couldn't say that it wasn't the right one or the wrong one, it would be a division of responsibilities between the people and those who came to the House of Peoples. With this principle so far, the House of Peoples has chosen with the failed politicians that the people rejected in the House of Representatives or in the campaign for the Presidency of the State and are mostly people who did not get the slightest number of votes on the election lists when they were. So this is not the party's position, but this is my personal position, so people have fallen in love that shouldn't have gotten caught and that shouldn't have come into BiH's political life at all, because the people in a certain way rejected them in the elections and said: you're not the ones we're looking for. 57
ParlaMint-BA_2010-03-23-0.u33507	Time!
ParlaMint-BA_2010-03-23-0.u33508	Here, just one more sentence and I'm done. And as for the entity vote, I've heard here many times that entity voting should not be touched. This is a modification of the entity's vote, which would certainly make the work of this Parliament much, much progress and come to... quality solutions, so at a time when it is possible to implement the Court's ruling in Strasbourg. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-BA_2010-03-23-0.u33509	Thank you. Replica, the esteemed representative of Rifat Dolić.
ParlaMint-BA_2010-03-23-0.u33510	My colleague Ajanović, very briefly to say and to deny what you said. As colleague Ajanović says, I think it best speaks and best shows why this country has had an accident and why it can't go beyond where it is now. counterpart Ajanović, that it is fortunate that the BiH citizens' will was respected in '91. year and that Mr. Fikret Abdić was the first member of the BiH presidency, certainly that BiH would be whole and out of one piece and it was certainly part of Europe, not a black hole in Europe. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-BA_2010-03-23-0.u33511	The next is Remzija Kadrić, a second replica.
ParlaMint-BA_2010-03-23-0.u33512	I thank you, Chairman. So, just one little correction... by Professor Ajanović. So, BiH is not a complex state, it's not a complex state, it's not,...not mentioned anywhere in the Constitution, it's a thesis that someone consciously or unconsciously advocates. So BiH is a democratic state, according to the Constitution: 'Bosnia and Herzegovina is a democratic state that operates in accordance with the law and... based on free and democratic elections.' So, there is no need to advocate the thesis that BiH is complex, it is a democratic state, regardless of it is a democratic state. That's one thing. And the big replica... I'll do it. So, fortunately, Fikret Abdić was not elected chairman of the BiH presidency, because if he did so, BiH might be whole but in the form of another state. 58 __________________ [[no microphone turned on]] Here I'm going to enjoy this happiness, better in this happiness than in the composition of... of some big-state, let's be quite precise, big-serb project. Well, fortunately, it's better than any other country.
ParlaMint-BA_2010-03-23-0.u33514	Obviously, we'll discuss this subject further. Husein Nanić, replica. Here you go.
ParlaMint-BA_2010-03-23-0.u33515	I thank you, Chairman. My replica refers to Mr Ajanović's exposure, when he says the BiH Parliament and the BiH government fell apart overnight. I think he did the lapus one great, not the parliament of the Republic of BiH fell apart, he remained to function and work all the time and war and after the war until the first multilateral elections, and he knows it well because he was part of that parliament. And as for this discussion, or the replica of Mr. Dolić, I think Mr. Kadrić said what he meant and thank Bog it didn't happen that way. We Krajišnik have the best sense of where this policy of Fikret Abdić would take us.
ParlaMint-BA_2010-03-23-0.u33516	Dear Ambassador Ekrem Ajanović, a replica also. Here you go.
ParlaMint-BA_2010-03-23-0.u33517	I don't know who you'd be replicating first,
ParlaMint-BA_2010-03-23-0.u33518	No, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no,
ParlaMint-BA_2010-03-23-0.u33519	But here I go from the Dolić.
ParlaMint-BA_2010-03-23-0.u33520	I'm surprised.
ParlaMint-BA_2010-03-23-0.u33521	First, when people say that they did not participate and participate in certain events but said they did, then in this parlamett they repeat some things that are neither serious nor true. Mr. Dolić, Fikret Abdić has given up on being president, but has insisted that Delimustafić be a minister, what is called, 59 interior ministers. So, he was preparing as a Kosovoer... in a way the state enemy of this country, he was preparing the ground... for events determined to be. Because the presidency president couldn't predict certain things, and the interior minister had some options with him, so, if nothing else, it was Fikret Abdić's choice. That's one thing. The second thing, the BiH Assembly, during the war in a broken and occupied country, was unable to come together and make legal decisions, and it transferred its powers to the Presidency and the Presidency acted as Parliament during the entire war, and then after the end of the war, Parliament met and confirmed all the laws that had been passed by the Presidency. I'm gonna need to know something, read it, see it, follow it, and then say something. Therefore, even Remziji Kadrić, the BiH state itself cannot be unitary, although I would like it. Well, no, I'm honestly saying, I'd like it to be that unitary state, a state with two levels of government, central government and municipalities, and that's it. But since it was established as a state with three constituent peoples and others, normally there must be some body in it, and that body is the Presidency that holds the stability of the state and independence, because its powers are in it. If it is taken away from the presidency, which again some representatives of certain intelligence services, formerly and perhaps still in those services, if it is taken away from the presidency, then a formal president who will be there for the sake of protocol, then it is pathetic for this country and for all of us with that state.
ParlaMint-BA_2010-03-23-0.u33522	Eh, that was honest. Dear Ambassador Bakir Izetbegović, please.
ParlaMint-BA_2010-03-23-0.u33523	I guess this will hold until the election of this empty story. We can't get to the point, let's do more, people. I've been keeping my mouth shut all morning, waiting for this to end and we'll do something about it. And I thought I'd shut up about what Mr. Dolić said. So, if Fikret Abdić were the president of the state, that Bosnia would be complete. Fikret Abdić was convicted twice, once for thieving, twice for war crimes. Well, does such a president of the state need us, do we need such a man to represent us? And that miracle up there in Claudius lasted while there was thieving while the hand was in someone else's bag hanging. He left us one mess, we can't rebuild AgroComerc today because we don't know what it is, you know. He left one behind. And the other thing, I don't know if, Doliću, a year ago, you saw there the army of Fikret Abdić working with Ulemek, who commanded that army, who was the instructor, with those Scorpions, those cynical villains who shot other children up there for 14 years, working with them. So do you think that way we could defend Bosnia as a whole? Maybe Ulemek would also help him "Ulemek" to... What kind of whole Bosnia would that be, huh? There would be a great Serbia, a great Croatia and a Great Kladuma or a Great Kladuma would be in big Serbia. __________________ 60 [[no microphone turned on]]
ParlaMint-BA_2010-03-23-0.u33524	So we're going back nice on this agenda. Dear Ambassador Husein Nanić, come in.
ParlaMint-BA_2010-03-23-0.u33525	I thank you, Chairman. Here I couldn't, perhaps it would have been wise if I had... kept this replica quiet, but by respecting Mr. Ajanović's years and when he says he needs to read and know something a little bit, I won't be rude so that, I say, perhaps because of the years Mr. Ajanović doesn't remember that I was an MP in the Parliament of the Republic of BiH when those decisions were made. That's why I know something, because I've been directly involved in some things.
ParlaMint-BA_2010-03-23-0.u33526	Dear Ambassador Rifat Dolić, replica. Here you go.
ParlaMint-BA_2010-03-23-0.u33527	So I have a replica of two exposures, or two replicas, that's on the line of colleagues.
ParlaMint-BA_2010-03-23-0.u33528	Wait a minute, please.
ParlaMint-BA_2010-03-23-0.u33529	...and on the replica of my colleague Izetbegović. First of all, Fikret Abdić gave up running for presidency president and I know how he gave up better than you and I know why he quit. I don't think we should bother people about this right now. If you want, I can bring you a recording of that conversation. As far as Kosovoers are concerned, fortunately there are many more witnesses, there are a lot of documents, and I just have to remind myself that neither witnesses nor those documents have any other names, not the name Fikret Abdić. Mr. Izetbegović, you've apostrophed a few things that are usually unbulful. First of all, as far as thieving is concerned, what you say is that Fikret Abdić is free of all responsibility. And now they're in Agrokomerc-Comercu on stage, a thief whose sponsors and your political mentors and your political followers are on stage. Go away, you're blind, so go and see these thieving things. There's no Fikret Abdić there now, even if he's doing the thieving, what do you say? The second thing, as far as the war crimes verdict is concerned. I am a man of law, and I respect the judgments of the courts, no matter what they may be. I also know the background of such convictions, I know that the introduction to such a verdict was the agreement between your father and former president of Croatia Mesić. But I must tell you, what they said about the dead nothing or all the best, your father avoided such a verdict only because of death. Thank you very much. 61
ParlaMint-BA_2010-03-23-0.u33530	Dear Ambassador, is there a need? Bakir Izetbegović.
ParlaMint-BA_2010-03-23-0.u33531	So, today in front of 42 people here, you said I'm a sponsor of the thieving. You'll probably have to prove it before the court. And that whose discussions look like nebulose, here's an estimate here of these 40 people.
ParlaMint-BA_2010-03-23-0.u33532	Dear Ambassador Šefik Džaferović, replica. Let's get this over with.
ParlaMint-BA_2010-03-23-0.u33533	Mr. Dolić, how can you really not be ashamed to stand up and speak like this here in Parliament after all that has happened? How do you even have the nerve to defend one man who has done so much evil to this country?
ParlaMint-BA_2010-03-23-0.u33534	No microphone turned on
ParlaMint-BA_2010-03-23-0.u33535	How to speak, and as much as you like, we can replicate each other. How are you not ashamed after all the footage of Fikret Abdić's departure to Belgrade with Karadžić, with Milošević, with the Legion there after Krajina, so that's where you made your brother-in-law war? Do you know how many people were killed in Krajina there because of that policy of yours? Since you're not ashamed, you stand up here and give me a lecture in Parliament. And when you mention the name of Alija Izetbegović, you should always stand by to do so.
ParlaMint-BA_2010-03-23-0.u33536	Let's move on. Discussion, Ambassador Mirko Okolić. Here you go.
ParlaMint-BA_2010-03-23-0.u33537	Thank you very much. Since I didn't have any more rights to the replica, now I'm going through the discussion, that's what I have. My replica is... ____________________ 62 [[no microphone turned on]] I hope there won't be much time for that. Good that it won't, my replica was really well-intentioned to Mrs. Milica, but it's obvious that for SNSD by SDS there's nothing well-intentioned. And, well, that's how she realized it. And if I had known, if Mr. Vinko had whispered to me since he was sitting here, if it were a futuristic statement, maybe it wouldn't have been a replica like that, and just like that... Furthermore, there is no Mr. Vink here to tell him that I told him that Bosniak MPs from the RS mostly vote with MPs from the RS entity, which is true and that they can't say here that they are voting with party colleagues or I don't know either, because this is about entities or it's about entity voting. Mrs. Milica, you just said "Serbian MPs" in your last discussion, and earlier you said they were all MPs. And for the two of us to clear up, I'm looking for a stenogram on this point and on this point where we discussed. As far as the position on entity voting by the SDS is concerned, he is well-known, because that's why she fought. And here no one can be more Catholic than the Pope in terms of entity voting. If it hadn't been for the SDS, you wouldn't be able to vote here today entityally or not. As for the SDS, we offer amendments to the Constitution, now on the agenda, and that's part of the replica of the gentleman... The constitution only according to the International Court's decision is discrimination against human rights and we will support it, and we will not support any solutions offered on four territorial units in Prud by whoever offered, or rather SNSD. As for Professor Ekrem Ajanović's discussion, he said in one of his discussions that BiH's genderism on the presidency must have a high level of respect, the presidency saved BiH then, and in particular, that respect should be given by Bošnjak, if they felt it the most. Now, I need to be familiar with the formula of what BiH's patriots are, and what are they, what are they, and why is this exactly where it stands out exactly the Bošnjak who are supposed to be guarding the BiH presidency? Isn't the BiH Presidency and the BiH Presidency and all constituent peoples, national minorities and others? As far as the BiH Presidency is concerned, that is to say, the amendment of this Constitution, is enough for the Presidency and no one is asking or asking for such changes that one member of the presidency must be of national minorities or order of others. I don't think that's even correct, that it's impossible, it's enough to give opportunity through constitutional changes that everyone can run for office, and citizens will put their trust in someone they think should be trusted through the vote. __________________ [[no microphone turned on]]
ParlaMint-BA_2010-03-23-0.u33540	Thank you. Replica, Honorary Chairman, Dr. Milorad Živković.
ParlaMint-BA_2010-03-23-0.u33541	It's not just a replica, it's an incorrect quote to an esteemed colleague, Okolić. As the SNSD does not represent the RS nor can it speak for all MPs from the RS, also or more than that, the SDS did not do RS, nor did it put an entity vote in the BiH Constitution and the Dayton Agreement and has no right to take on such, 64 under quotes, merits. At the same time, I want to tell everyone here how serious this topic is, someone was talking about the seriousness of the topic, when we talk about changes and the BiH Constitution and when we agree on it, there are a lot of ambassadors from various international organisations and others who are interested in seeing how we're going to agree on it, I don't see anyone now. So much for the seriousness of this topic and the way it came on the agenda here in Parliament. The debate here is needed on the Commission's opinion, because the only thing we can do is not accept the Commission's opinion, to return it to the Constitutional Commission, not to discuss proposed amendments and amendments to the Constitution. Because on the agenda is the Commission's opinion. And the third thing, I don't think we've made these discussions help to our commission to discuss on Monday, I haven't heard a single new proposal from anyone who isn't on that committee and who isn't representing his political party where he has the right to make a proposal on that committee. Let's make some help for that commission if we want to do a job. Thank you. We'll try to finish by 2:00, it takes a break at 2:00, but here's hoping that the other replicas and discussions won't cause an extension beyond 2:00. Dear Ambassador Slavko Jovičić, replica. Here you go.
ParlaMint-BA_2010-03-23-0.u33542	Thank you very much, Chairman. Dear fellow Okoliću, why has the entity vote been so updated in the last three and a half years, since the call of this parliament? Well, it's precisely because from 2002 to 2006, no one ever mentioned the word nor was it a disputed alleged entity vote, because it was then a general sale of the RS institutions, and no one mentioned it at that time. Now I'm asking the key question, and you're part of our team, thank Bog you don't know.
ParlaMint-BA_2010-03-23-0.u33543	Please, just a little patience to keep the quorum, please, let's finish this point.
ParlaMint-BA_2010-03-23-0.u33544	Because without you, we couldn't use an entity vote, we couldn't challenge seven SNSD deputies here, and thank Bog you were always with us, you know, when we were protecting the constitutional position of the RS and the BiH Constitution. May someone point out to me when MPs from the order of the Serbian people and, I repeat, you with us, thank Bog, have challenged anything that was in accordance with the BiH Constitution? When did we abuse the entity vote in this House? Is that what we wanted to do on purpose to make a mess, a mess, bring something down? No, I don't. We have used entity voting and we will use it until the Constitution allows us only when anti-constitutional laws are placed in the procedure. And that was in a huge number of cases, so we could, many times, be late to meet some of the conditions of this or that, and we never took care to meet our own conditions. And there is progress in this country and that what we can agree to go into the procedure, which is a general 65 consent, but rather a long time ago when we were racing which party will propose something fully aware that it will not get support in Parliament. So, Mr. Okolić, when you mentioned one more thing and your president said something to you, so you see your president saying that there have been countless times the abuse of entity voting, I'm sorry you don't have the right to reply because you would confirm what I'm saying. You are part of the team on which the distinguished Member Marković, myself, performs, and not to list the other colleagues who are there, their names are known. So together they were completely unique, is that you weren't with us an entity vote has no purpose. So you were completely wrong when you replicated the esteemed Mrs. Marković, who only confirmed what happened. And what happened is what you participated in, what you participate in, and, for my wonderful and great pleasure, you have nothing against it today, but on the contrary, you defend entity voting even more. And from 2002 to 2006, it wasn't important in Parliament at all, was it then that everything here could have passed? Well, you see, in the last three and a half years, nothing could have gone past what was against the constitution and against the law.
ParlaMint-BA_2010-03-23-0.u33545	We have another registered debater. Twice, Mirko. Mirko, you spent... twice and finished.
ParlaMint-BA_2010-03-23-0.u33546	No microphone turned on
ParlaMint-BA_2010-03-23-0.u33547	Well, there isn't, twice is enough. Azra Hadžiahmetović, please.
ParlaMint-BA_2010-03-23-0.u33548	Thank you. Here's what I'm proposing, since I don't suppose I'm going to cause any replicas, before you take a break to give your colleague Okolić the word to correct the wrong quote, right? Thank you. Allow me, although Mr Belkić initially presented the views of the Party for BiH, I was justifiably absent, but here is the need to finally mention that it was not our intention to open discussions of the emotional character, nor to open up any debates that were used, or cause was used for discussions that were not in the context of the agenda. It was our intention to offer one of the modes, one of the modes, no matter what someone might agree with it or someone disagree, but we appreciate that even the first reactions were more emotional than they were about the metrics... of what is the subject of today's debate. But here's to mention, let's say, that this debate on the principles of first reading or debate on the Constitutional Commission Report which is as it is and which is in itself contradictory, indeed, I must say that there is a constitutional basis, that this amendment is in line with the Constitution. And then the vote with four votes to and against, or five votes against, without the abstentions, why? Here I was wondering, colleague Džaferović, why. First, the amendments are flexible; secondly, which is what we've been handling, if we're already talking about principles, so we haven't yet come to the stage that involves constitutional procedure. Here I will only read to you briefly on page 7 of point 9 of the latest assessment of the functioning of BiH institutions, where according to the Parliamentary Assembly of the Council of Europe: 'The reform of the Constitution should preferably address two of the following specific issues, the revision of entity voting and too broad application of the constitutional provision of vital national interest and, secondly, the problem of inability for BiH citizens belonging to the category of others to run for member of the BiH presidency and participate in the appointment of delegates in the House of People's, finished the quote. Can one say that these amendments deviate, or principles deviate from the spirit, or content of what I read? Secondly, I have to mention and apostrophe of the special importance of time, or time dimension, this is one of the modes. We intended to open and debate, among other things, eventually and come up with some solutions together. Unfortunately, there was very little debate about the metric today. However, given the fact that these amendments are also flexible, but in the meantime we also have what we have to do with the imperative of respect for the European Court of Human Rights Decision and given the very limited time and the huge work ahead of us, we suggest that the Constitutional Commission's report is returned to the Constitutional Commission again, i.e. to reject a negative report, to give the possibility, in the meantime and other solutions, eventually, and to what we can get as a proposal from the Council of Ministers' Joint Commission that the Constitutional Commission respects the time limits, i.e. this Parliament respects the time limits that are ahead. I repeat, our intention was nothing but to give one of the modes of response to these two demands which, while we are already discussing the principles that I was talking about, which I read from the Council of Europe resolution. Thank you.
ParlaMint-BA_2010-03-23-0.u33549	Thank you. This way we've exhausted the logs. Finalising debate on point 21. Continuing at 3:30. [[PAUZA]]
ParlaMint-BA_2010-03-23-0.u33550	Comrades and fellow MPs, please continue on the agenda, we are at the 22nd point: Ad. 22. Commission report to the College on efforts to reach agreement on the draft law on the prevention of riots in sports competitions, Proposer: Ambassador Bakir Izetbegović, Law No: 01-02-7-7/10 of 19. 1. 2010 (the law in first reading) You received a report from the College 24. 2.. The Kolegijum didn't achieve consent. We plead in the second round on the draft law in the first reading, it is about the bill on preventing riots in sports competitions. 67 There's no discussion about this, and we're going to point 23. Proposal for a revised Bosnia and Herzegovina strategy for the implementation of Annex VII.
ParlaMint-BA_2010-03-23-0.u33552	No microphone turned on
ParlaMint-BA_2010-03-23-0.u33553	Which dots?
ParlaMint-BA_2010-03-23-0.u33554	No microphone turned on
ParlaMint-BA_2010-03-23-0.u33555	Yeah, say it.
ParlaMint-BA_2010-03-23-0.u33556	Very short. It says on the European Parliament's website that we ratified the Prevention Agreement, I would say, on the July of violent cheerleading, especially at football games. And we ratified that 13 years ago. Unfortunately, this means document... not published in the BiH Official Messenger, just to get the information...
ParlaMint-BA_2010-03-23-0.u33557	Okay.
ParlaMint-BA_2010-03-23-0.u33558	If he had been adopted,...this law would have already...
ParlaMint-BA_2010-03-23-0.u33559	Thank you. Ad. 23 Proposal for a revised strategy of Bosnia and Herzegovina for the implementation of Annex VII of the Dayton Peace Agreement (Act of the Ministry of Human Rights and Refugees, issue 01-37-310/10 of 15. 2. 2010) The proposal for a revised strategy was delivered by the Ministry of Human Rights and Refugees in parliamentary procedure 15. 2. The relevant Joint Committee on Human Rights, the rights of the child, youth, immigration, refugees, asylum and ethics delivered the opinion 8. 3. 16. 3. we have received a review from the Ministry of Human Rights and Refugees of Amendments and Supplements in the Proposal for a revised 68 strategy for the implementation of Annex VII, and in line with the conclusions of the 34th session of the Joint Commission on Human Rights, Rights of the Child, Youth, Immigration, Refugees, Asylum and Ethics. There's no one from the promoter right now, but good. Here's the debate. Dear Ambassador Halid Genjac, come in.
ParlaMint-BA_2010-03-23-0.u33561	Thank you, Chairman. Of course, there is no need to repeat how important the Annex VII Implementation Strategy is, then there is additional importance in itself by being connected with some very important issues in our current case, such as: Census list, etc. A huge effort has been made in this strategy, in its construction, as the head of the job was the Ministry of Human Rights and Refugees, with the participation of a huge number of institutions, and at BiH level, from entities, from Brcko District, Canton, all those who are in some way in contact with the problem of this population. And it was made in my opinion a good inventory of problems and issues to be addressed. However, solving the problem as it is shown here is mostly about terminology, it is necessary, it will be done, without giving a clear deadline for who, when it has to be done, without a carrier who needs to do so. This is particularly important when it comes to issues in the field of returnees' security, municipal and social infrastructure, sustainability... return, i.e. health care, education, work, employment, social and disability protection, etc. Given that, therefore, problems have been recorded, it is a huge number of problems for each issue and simply because of the basic principle that no strategy in itself lives, the strategy is a strategy,... each strategic one follows an action plan. In order for the strategy to have its own life, to be implemented, an action plan should be adopted. That is why, in order not to hold back, so as not to be longer, I think that this argument is enough, to save time, I propose the following conclusion: 'The House of Representatives of the BiH Parliamentary Assembly is in charge of the Council of Ministers to draw up an action plan for the implementation of the Strategy within three months. The holder of the action plan would be the Ministry of Human Rights, together with representatives of all institutions involved in the development of the Strategy. The action plan would set precise deadlines, concrete executions and the necessary means to address identified problems, implement recommendations given and proposed measures listed in the Strategy, in particular in the areas of essential completion of the return process, the security of returnees, municipal and social infrastructures, electrification of return settlements, sustainability and reintegration of returnees, the exercise of the right to return of property and housing rights." In the Strategy, one mini action plan was added, as it was called, to address the damages to property that cannot be returned to refugees and, in addition,... add a framework plan to achieve return. For these problems, however, which have been observed, which have been thoroughly recorded, there is no indication of how it will be dealt with precisely and within what time. And I think this action plan would be necessary. 69
ParlaMint-BA_2010-03-23-0.u33562	Thank you. Dear Ambassador Remzija Kadrić, please.
ParlaMint-BA_2010-03-23-0.u33563	I thank you, Chairman. So, in this part, I will, in particular, refer to this part relating to the elements of sustainable return, these issues that are highlighted, issues of health care, education, labour and employment, social, pension and disability protection, etc. So these are all the questions that... concern these elements of a sustainable return, and even in this part of what Dr Genjac said, so my part, I will propose one conclusion that might be part of this action plan, which would say about this: 'By considering the proposal for a revised BiH strategy for the implementation of Annex VII. The Dayton Peace Agreement is particularly supported by proposals for measures in the field of sustainability and reintegration of returnees, health care, education, work, employment, social and pension insurance and requires competent institutions to propose concrete measures within a short period of time but no longer than 15 days." So this could be part of this action plan that Dr. Halid Genjac proposed with justification. In this part, I... particularly find this one detail on the 44th side of this issue of sustainability of return, which says: "In its 58th meeting in November 2005, the Committee on Economic, Social and Cultural Rights of the UN discussed BiH's initial report on the implementation of the International Pact on Economic, Social and Cultural Rights and concluded that the Committee expresses its concern that returnees, especially those who are ethnic minorities, often do not have access to social and health protection, education and other economic, social and cultural rights." So in that part, I find it important to take concrete measures on the sustainability of the return, and in that part... I will propose this one conclusion that will be part of this action plan if it is accepted as such. Thank you.
ParlaMint-BA_2010-03-23-0.u33564	Thank you. Dear Ambassador Momčilo Novaković, please.
ParlaMint-BA_2010-03-23-0.u33565	Thank you, Mr. Chairman. 70 Here I might have had a need to ask a few questions before the discussion, since the promoter is here.
ParlaMint-BA_2010-03-23-0.u33566	Here's the promoter who'll listen to the questions and probably answer them. Here you go.
ParlaMint-BA_2010-03-23-0.u33567	So the first question..., given that this strategy has also made certain changes, it would be good to explain here what the difference between this document and the previous document that was here is. That's one question. The second question is about compensation. It is here on page 50 that the identified problems and recommendations for... access to compensation for damages, i.e. compensation, where in 6.1 it is defined 'that compensation within the meaning of Annex VII of the Dayton Peace Agreement should be regarded as adequate compensation and cash compensation in that scope which ensures the right to the home of displaced persons and refugees, as a way of resolving the purely residential issue to those persons who for objective reasons cannot return to the pre-war addresses of the residence'. So, this definition of 'which for objective reasons can't come back?' So I'm curious about where that definition came from, the origin of that definition? Because the question is, what about those who don't want to come back again for objective reasons? In fact, it's very serious this and this definition because you see what this means 'for objective reasons I can't go back'. There's someone here and they want to come back, but there's nowhere to go, and then they say these objective reasons are to come back, because no one's stopping you from coming back. What you won't, that's another question. So I'm interested in the origin of this definition. And secondly, what I'm particularly interested in, and there's been a lot of speeches in the previous period, is the formation of a fund for fair compensation. So, what about this institute, is it practically after the adoption of this strategy, it loses importance or we will practically not deal with this issue in the next period. Here I'd like to beg, so I ask these questions, please don't treat this like a discussion, and if it's treated, then I'll discuss it through replicas. Thank you.
ParlaMint-BA_2010-03-23-0.u33568	Here's what we're going to count as a replica, since it's three minutes. And for the discussion, you can answer it. The second vice-president, Mr. Beriz Belkić, discussed.
ParlaMint-BA_2010-03-23-0.u33569	I don't have anything special to give. So, I would support what Mr. Halid Genjac was talking about. And of course, I understand the need to ask certain questions, but in the force of material 71 that we haven't said in months, not to say, and for years we've been getting, so we're in the last round, so to speak, we've also got an explanation of the changes and I hope they explain what's been going on. Of course, the minister is here to further explain. I picked up the most for the next one. So we really agreed that this was an extremely important document. If we clarify the questions that have been asked, and I believe we will, I suggest we avoid this legislative process. We discussed this strategy in a hundred readings, not in one, we had procedures here, we adopted, so I don't see any need to go two degrees in the legislative process, but simply if we solve the dilemmas that people here have, against which I don't mind, the minister is here, to define that we adopt this document so that we can do this thing that Halid was talking about. It is now a common practice when this strategy is adopted, then the action plan is to implement that strategy. So, most of all, I've come to ask the minister to answer these questions, of course, and then to go to a statement, finally a statement on this document for the final implementation of it, because we've lost almost a year and a half, two days. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-BA_2010-03-23-0.u33570	Thank you. Minister Halilović now needs to explain the proposed strategy. Here you go.
ParlaMint-BA_2010-03-23-0.u33571	Dear Chairman, honourable MPs, I need to say a few words about the context of the proposal for a revised strategy. Namely, the proposal for a revised BiH strategy for the implementation of Annex VII of the Dayton Peace Agreement was already in parliamentary procedure half last year. For reminders, the Council of Ministers held its 29th session. 1. In 2009, it considered and established a proposal for a revised strategy after which it was adopted at the 53rd session of the House of Representatives, held on 13. 5. In 2009. However, this proposal did not receive the necessary entity majority at the 31st session of the House of Peoples, held on 18th. Six. In 2009. After that, at a session held on 7. Seven. In 2009, the Joint College of the Two Houses of the Parliamentary Assembly of BiH again updated the issue of adopting this revised strategy and asked the Council of Ministers to make additional efforts... to establish a new agreed proposal and to deliver it to parliamentary procedure for adoption as soon as possible. Representatives of the BiH Ministry of Human Rights and Refugees attended all sessions of the BiH Parliamentary Assembly's homes and working bodies to discuss the strategy in question. And on the basis of all the discussions, proposals and suggestions identified the need for a conceptual solution in two specific areas, the essential completion of the return process by 2014 and the access to the related rights of refugees and displaced persons to the compensation of Annex VII to the Dayton Peace Agreement. With that in mind, therefore, this should be some sort of clarification, the original document of this strategy that you had earlier was complemented by two additions, and this supplement 1. The 2009 Framework Programme for Returns – 2014 as part of all those discussions and objectives, and in relation to others, on funding and on loans and on the need to connect with other issues, i.e. resolving other issues, etc. And second addendum: 2. The concept of 72 resolving damage compensation issues with the Action Plan. So this second document should be the answer to this question of the honourable MP who asked the question, so the compensation fund as well as the law that will regulate therefore the compensation of the damage. And before, of course, this document should regulate the issues of who is involved, and that is something that is ahead of us after the adoption of the strategy, if adopted, right. The proposal for a revised strategy with all of these, therefore, has then been complemented with the relevant entity ministries, the government of the Brcko District of BiH and the UNHCR and the draft has been re-submitted to the Council of Ministers, who, with certain amendments and additions, have established the new text of the proposal in question. Further, in line with the conclusions of the 34th session of the Joint Commission on Human Rights, the rights of the child, youth, immigration, refugees, asylum and ethics, held 3. 3. In 2010, which discussed the proposal for a revised BiH strategy for the implementation of the Annex VII of the Dayton Peace Agreement, we also provided a review of the changes made and the additions you have in the materials, which is this ex post material from several sides. The summary document under consideration deals with the current situation, identifies problems and makes recommendations for improving access to refugee rights, displaced persons and returnees within the framework of the work of multi-sectoral working groups dealing with the topic in areas: 1. Reconstructions of refugee housing, displaced persons and returnees, the closure of collective centres, the resolution of alternative accommodation of displaced persons and returnees and social housing, with a special emphasis on the problems of displaced persons and refugees and the housing of wounded categories of returnees. 2. Completion of the process of return of property and housing rights of refugees, displaced persons and returnees. 3. Electricalisation of return settlements and individual housing units of returnees. 4. Reconstruction of infrastructure in places of interest for refugee return, displaced persons and returnees. 5. Health care for displaced persons and returnees. Six. Social protection of displaced persons and returnees. Seven. Realising the right to the education of displaced persons and returnees. 8. The right to work and hire displaced persons and returnees. Nine. Security of displaced persons and returnees and demining the return area 10. The right to compensation to displaced persons, refugees and returnees. Given that the right to compensation for damages in the opinion of individual representatives has been under-processed, special attention in the post-work is devoted to presenting this issue, resulting in the creation of a special concept for resolving this issue with the Action Plan. That's one of the additional documents you have in front of you. Also, at the request of individual MPs, a Return Programme was developed with detailed indicators, dynamics and projections of the necessary funds for the essential completion of this process in BiH by the end of 2014. We believe that this complemented the proposal for a revised strategy for more than two years since the start of intensive work on the revision of this extremely important and complex 73 strategic document is a comprehensive operational framework, whose implementation will result in the improvement of the access to the rights set out in Annex VII of the Dayton Peace Agreement. Finally, let me remind you that the Peace Implementation Council in BiH has on several occasions stressed the need for this strategy to be adopted as soon as possible at its sessions. Of course, this ministry also considers that it is high time for this document to be adopted and therefore to approach the implementation of what all three of these documents include, therefore, the adoption of a law on compensation for damages, and that it defines what it is, and the establishment of a compensation fund and specific conditions which would be defined by law, etc. no prejudge. This is where all the problems and controversy related to this issue are registered. Thank you.
ParlaMint-BA_2010-03-23-0.u33572	Thank you. Okay. It was in turn, honourable Ambassador Momčilo Novaković, you were the first to report for the discussion, do you need to speak or will you wait?
ParlaMint-BA_2010-03-23-0.u33573	No microphone turned on
ParlaMint-BA_2010-03-23-0.u33574	All right, Reverend Adem Huskić, here you go.
ParlaMint-BA_2010-03-23-0.u33575	Thank you, Mr. Chairman. I see that a relatively many people have applied and that we have spent absolutely a lot of time and I will try to be as brief as possible, as concisely as possible. So, I would just like to list a few facts about this strategy, which I think are important and that I can define the way we work in the future, and that's what my colleague Belkić was talking about. So first, I think this is a very important document for a large number of BiH citizens, which was first discussed in the Council of Ministers in January 2009. So, a year and a few days are working on that document, and I think that's because of all sorts of things, we've lost relatively much time. In his organization, a large number of people and organisations participated in his work, if I counted correctly, it seems to me, 48 different institutions participated in the creation of this strategy, which is not negligible and should guarantee that the document was done in quality. Next thing I know, it's important that we take into account the interests of all refugees, which means those who want to return to pre-war addresses, but also those who don't want to return to their pre-war addresses. I also think that this document is one of the conditions of the Roadmap from the European 74 Partnership. It was also discussed at the Council of Ministers for the second time, as it was here and, as far as I know, certain amendments were made and these amendments were accepted by the Council of Ministers. So, a very high degree of agreement has been reached on the document and therefore, and as a result of the faster adoption of it... I propose: that in the Report of our Commission on page 1 here, where it says 'on the basis of the conclusion of the Council of Ministers of BiH, the Ministry of Human Rights and Refugees of BiH deliver the House of Representatives of the BiH Parliament 15. 2. 2010.', to change this date here and put the last one in the proposal for a revised adoption strategy and instead of a point to put the decimal 'with embedded amendments adopted on the Council of Ministers'. I think that's how we would... strengthen this material. And also to the next last page, where he says 'The Joint Commission has unanimously concluded that it will comply with Article 39. Rules of Procedure of the House of Representatives and Article 46. The Rules of Procedure of the People's House of Procedures to consider and adopt the proposal for a revised strategy to follow the basic provisions on legislative activities, first and second reading, so that we delete that sentence, so that it does not follow the meaning of this legislative procedure and that there is no first and second reading, given that there has been plenty of time to bring it all together. And to make it as operational as possible, so I suggest that we adopt this strategy today without further discussion and further proceedings. Thank you.
ParlaMint-BA_2010-03-23-0.u33576	Thank you. The next is Honorable Representative Martin Raguž.
ParlaMint-BA_2010-03-23-0.u33577	I thank you, Mr. President. So, right now, let me say that I support today the adoption of this strategy and at least what we can do... to do it today after almost three years of preparation, the return of ping-pong balls and everything else that followed the preparation of this strategy and is that this home supports this strategy for two reasons. The first is, you know, that we recently adopted a conclusion to commit the Council of Ministers to providing 400 million KM funds for return issues and all these other issues over the next half of the year. And in response to the Council of Ministers, we are told: wherever we come to talk to international financial institutions, starting from the Council of Europe to the banks, to the funds, everyone is looking for a strategy as a prerequisite, so let us meet this formal, let us, let us no longer return the ball to us no strategy, no serious conversations. So that's one thing. The second thing, in the data here, I'm afraid we're not even focusing on the real problems of refugees and displaced persons, and here's the first three thousand families still living in collective accommodation, and 50,000 housing are reported for reconstruction, which is close to nearly two hundred thousand people still want to return. 75 and a third thing, the issue at all of these people who have returned to all of BiH in terms of their integration, sustainable survival and development, I don't think without one serious strategy can be, can't really be treated. So these are important elements that need to support this strategy. It wouldn't make any particular conclusions today, so let's let the Council of Ministers respect the conclusion within the deadlines that we've given them, to prepare an answer to a qualitative one on which additional funds can be hired to implement this strategy. As for open issues, I think they have been resolved by the fact that the text has been added to all the competent institutions in BiH in order to final and complete resolve these issues enables the achievement of all three rights and rights to return and the right to free choice and the right to compensation. I mean, it's, so it's this key supplement that's been sought, that's kind of opened up as a political problem. I think that this question is now resolved and that every month we have a monitoring here in the implementation of this strategy. Thank you.
ParlaMint-BA_2010-03-23-0.u33578	Thank you. The next is distinguished representative Bakir Izetbegović.
ParlaMint-BA_2010-03-23-0.u33579	I welcome the adoption of this strategy. This is a good material, comprehensive, especially in terms of diagnosing the condition. Also, I support the idea of fellow counterpart Beriz Belkić that today we try to finally adopt this strategy in both readings. Normally, what our colleague Genjac suggested is necessary to do, and the SDA asked for this last time when we had on the wallpaper a discussion strategy: one action plan that would determine the actors, the operators of the activities, the necessary resources, the deadlines and priorities. Employment is not thoroughly processed, one statistics on BiH's general state or unemployment problem is given. I mean, it's a complex thing, it's hard for this ministry to give precise exits to that situation, but some things are very simple, and at least they should, I mean, cover up with an action plan, that's agriculture. Coolers are needed, dryers are needed, mechanisms are needed, incentives are needed, they are relatively simple and simple things for which returnees cry out. It's not a complex thing, it's not a highly sophisticated thing. The other thing is, and we talked about it last time: missing deficit personnel. So, cops, teachers, teachers, masters. They say that... there is not a Bošnjak who is an electrician in Srebrenica and that the problem is, say, when the Potocari breaks down and there... the power goes out, or we have a problem, there needs some lighting to fix, change, etc. Here's an electrician who doesn't have a Bošnjak in RS. So, a stimulating fund that would increase something's salary to those deficits, thousands of people a couple hundred marks a month, because they're not, they're not high figures and they could get into this action plan. That's it, thank you. 76
ParlaMint-BA_2010-03-23-0.u33580	Thank you. Next is Honorable Representative Momčilo Novaković.
ParlaMint-BA_2010-03-23-0.u33581	Thank you, Mr. Chairman. Well, here's one of the questions I asked about the definition of compensation. The Council of Ministers therefore established the following definition: 'Communication within the meaning of Annex VII of the Dayton Peace Agreement should be regarded as adequate compensation and cash compensation in that scope which ensures the right to the home of displaced persons'. Annex VII of the Dayton Peace Agreement says: 'All refugees and displaced persons have the right to return freely to their homes. They have the right to return property that has been devoid of hostilities since 1991 and the compensation of property that cannot be returned." So essentially this conclusion of the Council of Ministers and what it says in Annex VII differs in terms. Is compensation only, as it says here, a home, so a housing unit in which the returnee lives or the one that has been destroyed or the entire property. Annex VII says total assets. I don't think the Council of Ministers had the right to change this formulation. The other thing is the compensation priorities. He could define that he would primarily compensate this part, so in the next phase next, etc. But in no case did the Council of Ministers have the right to form a different definition than the definition in aneks vii.. And it would be good if this definition in this revised strategy changed. So, if she were literally to be prescribed a formulation from Annex VII. What does it matter? Look, the fact is, however we define this compensation, or compensation for the property, which is impossible to repay – it is a process that will take a long time. It will probably be the subject of some inheritance, etc., etc. So you have to define that right. Whether what and what dynamics are dealt with depends on a lot of things. Here, when I was talking about the fund, I have to say I didn't mean the fund as a management organization. I was thinking about the estate fund, which would serve to make up for that, so I've been working on the process that I was just talking about, is about making up for that property that can't be returned. The charge dynamics would condition the dynamics of compensation and that's clear. Of course, the charge would be from different sources, which would also be good if we had defined. It is not conditional that this fund is related to the return of property. So, just because we made the return on property, formally executed the return on property, doesn't mean that there was no need for that fund. Because often this return of property was just a formal nature, so basically we didn't return it because it was destroyed and they had nothing to return. But formally they've won the right, so they've got the will, so here you go. It's not taken from you, it's standing there, it's broken, it's like this, I don't know. And finally, a little bit around the Action Plan. It would be good if we had now adapted the Action Plan to the terms related to today's session, or adoption. So we have, say, the first four activities are deadlines in 2009. Then we have 5, 6, and 7 activity, so if you want 8 activity, which is actually one activity. Look out, activity 5. The formation of an expert working group 77 which is tasked with analysing all open issues listed in this strategy, which relate to the right to compensate for property damage that cannot be returned to refugees and displaced persons. It's activity 5, and it's the Department of Human Rights. Well, then activity six. Analysing all open issues listed in this strategy which relate to the right to compensation for damages. Same again. So here we have an analysis, so as an expert on some expert group, and then it also analyses this ministry. So activity 7 where, after responding to previous questions, the Ministry will replay the necessary data, etc. So, in the end, prepare draft laws and sublaws. So all of these four activities are actually one activity, but here's a little bit of a stretch to get the impression that there's going to be a lot of serious work here. And in the end, I don't understand this activity 11. Ensuring the necessary initial budget for cases and intentions in 2010. The Ministry of Human Rights and Refugees in co-operation with the entity ministry and... The Brčko Distrikt, the UNHCR, thus agreeing to the Council of Ministers, the adoption of the Parliamentary Assembly during the alignment and adoption of the 2010 budget. Look, this 2010 budget was adopted a long time ago. There's no initial budget for the purposes in question, or there is, at least here it's not clear. It would be good if we had defined that this job was done, so then we could end each of these activities in writing, so since we added this, we subsequently wrote down the activity, the activity in progress, according to plan, we're late, etc., etc. But here I think that this is more or less important, this when we talk about the Action Plan, how vital it is for me to define that compensation to be changed in this strategy and to be exactly what it is in the Annex VII of the Dayton Peace Agreement. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-BA_2010-03-23-0.u33582	Mr. Lozančić, discussion.
ParlaMint-BA_2010-03-23-0.u33583	Thank you. Ladies and gentlemen, MPs, respected members of the Council of Ministers, guests, so we have a proposal for a revised strategy about in the same text as we had about a year ago and in the corrections in that section that have been recognised as a problem that has not led to that strategy. I'm not going to repeat the debate ever since that I'm not bothering you again, but I'm just going to say that I'm totally staying in all those grades that I said about the strategy back then. And here's something about this strategy. I think this strategy should be adopted. I think you should give it a chance to try to speed up the process. Neither this strategy nor any document is a problem for which the return goes as it goes. The problems are much deeper. This strategy and any other strategy will not solve this problem. So, it can speed up resolution if we really do our best or change our political will so through our strong political will that in all segments, in all the problems identified as the problems of the person to whom it relates, we make our contribution that these people do not have these problems, and those problems 78 have from the authorities where they return or where they should return or where they should not return. But, so we could talk a lot about this, I suggest that today we adopt this revised strategy so that, as a number of colleagues have already said, we allow the resolution ministry to remove one flaw that may have failed to implement one of our essential conclusions regarding ensuring significant material resources so as to speed up this process, if possible. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-BA_2010-03-23-0.u33584	Slavko Jovičić, discussion.
ParlaMint-BA_2010-03-23-0.u33585	I was initiated by Mr. Lozančić, the Honorable Chairman, very briefly. I too, Mr. Lozančić, and you will remain at the discussion of the one when we already had this strategy then in Parliament. You know how then the entire avalanche started as representatives of the Serb people, MPs from RS, shot down the strategy, didn't want a strategy. People wanted to solve the question really one of the most endangered categories. There are even more vulnerable categories, no one can bid now on who is at risk, but then we searched and Mr. Novaković hit it best, we haven't yet defined that fund that was scheduled immediately by the Dayton Agreement, and then here we're told that the Central Bank should have given some initial funds, so he needed this one, he needed that one. In the end, we need and here we are in 2010 and in all the need for who it is we need to discuss this again today. Of course, I can't say now what the fate of this is. I wish this one had been adopted long ago. That a lot of this strategy has been realised. And it could have been realized. But what was going on? We have to be really open, and that's how I do it. It's a huge priority and, maybe, let's just get back, get back, get back. Back to where? On what terms? You can give him everything there if he doesn't have a man's job, if he's not health insurance, if there's no education, if there's no other problems that the strategy is currently predicting. Of course, staying. Well, it's human's right to say where, what, it's going to have the right, and so is this property compensation, and don't let me count it for you now, I'm not going to burden you, that's what I said when it was the first time. Well, you can't, people, expect a man to come back, and maybe he would, when on his property today's warehouse, a new building was built. Who's going to tear down that building now? How much money would that take? Then he'd better compensate for it in a certain way, so he says, "Here, he can't come back." But here it's not clearly defined how, I think, 53 and some of the questions that have been asked, who's going to solve it. If that's the case, it doesn't say anything. Is it like this, it doesn't say anything, if it's not like that. That I'm not paraphrasing right now, and I'm not making a joke. This is the most serious topic we've been dealing with for years. And it's just a good thing we should end up not saying, here we are, waiting for August or I don't know any session, so everyone needed it for some election, pre-election. It's all pre-election here, and don't let anyone mention any of my colleagues at least to any other party, we're all the same here. And let the people know what it is. 79 So here you should look not at the nationality, the place, the entity, the city, but at the position of the unfortunate people. That's all you can call them and that's the category. You can't look at them differently. So, when I spoke, but later all that avalanche fell hard on me, Serbian representatives wouldn't let, Srbin disputed, they wouldn't. People, we wanted to, but we lacked this third equal form of solving refugee issues, displaced persons, it's a compensation of property. It has to be that way, because a man might want to come back, but he's got nowhere else to go, people. I'll list countless questions, here's one - Ilijaš. The man had enormous property, no house today, no barn, no garage. There's a warehouse built there today. Who's gonna pay to get that warehouse out of the way and make his house come back again? Well, then it's better to compensate him for that property, so he says, "Here's where you live, it's your human right to choose." And I think that if we had agreed on that at the time and had been in good faith, half of the things in this strategy would have been realised. So I'm saying it's about unfortunate people who need help as soon as possible, which way, let's try this strategy to solve and we'll see. I'm just stressing one more time, people, we didn't dispute it, to break up with those news articles and the media as we tear it all down... That's not true. The same problem is the Srbin returnees and Bošnjak and Hrvat and others and everyone, he is an unhappy man. Thank you.
ParlaMint-BA_2010-03-23-0.u33586	I would like to thank the esteemed representative Jovičić. No more reports. I'm closing the debate. Moving to the 24th point of the agenda: Ad. 24. Report on the work of the Citizens' Appeals Committee on the work of police officers in Bosnia and Herzegovina police bodies for the period September – December 2009 (Citizen's Appeals Committee material, issue: 03-50-1-60-6-2/10 of 27. 1. 2010) The Committee on Citizens' Appeals is 29. 1. In 2010, the following report was submitted for consideration and adoption pursuant to Article 15 (1) point (f) and Article 19 (1) point (d) of the Act on the Independent and Supervisory Authorities of the BiH Police Structure. A competent Joint Defence and Security Commission of BiH opinion delivered 9. 3. 2010 I'm opening a debate on this report. Dear Representative Azra Hadžiahmetović.
ParlaMint-BA_2010-03-23-0.u33588	Thank you, Chairman. 80 Behold, I will do more in the sense of perhaps a suggestion for the future when either the agenda point is formed or the agenda is formulated, or the reports are submitted. Namely, it says here that this is the report on the work of the Board of Appeal, although this is a report on the establishment of the Committee. Let me remind you, this report alone states that the appointment decision was made in July 2009. Two months later, the time of 14. 9-29. 12, for the period for which the Committee reports to us. After the constitutive session discussed the Rules of Procedure, extremely much time devoted to exchange ideas, taking over activities related to redeploying work, sending a notice about the start of work and working towards establishing co-operation, a stressed need for holding meetings, etc. I appreciate that there really was a short period for which, among other things, it could have been a rich report on work, but I don't think this fits the name of this report. This should certainly be taken into account, but more as a report on the constitution and start of the Committee on Appeals of Citizens. Thank you.
ParlaMint-BA_2010-03-23-0.u33589	I thank you, too. I just owe it to the correctness to say that we don't have the right to change the names of the acts delivered to us by someone else, so we put them on the agenda. No more reports. I'm closing the 24th agenda. Moving to the 25th point of the agenda: Ad. 25. Information from the BiH Council of Ministers on the deprivement of the freedom of Professor Ejup Ganić in Great Britain on the basis of Serbia's extradition requirements (proposed by Šefik) We have placed this item in today's agenda on the proposal of representative Šefik Džaferović. I'm opening a debate. Does the Resort Minister have information? Do you want the minister to submit information like he has?
ParlaMint-BA_2010-03-23-0.u33591	Let him handle it.
ParlaMint-BA_2010-03-23-0.u33592	Thank you. 81 Honorable Minister of Justice, Mr. Bariša Čolak.
ParlaMint-BA_2010-03-23-0.u33593	I apologize, I was with an esteemed representative, so I didn't immediately notice that you called me. I hope I don't make a mistake, it's about the information about the lack of freedom of Mr Ganić, that it's on the agenda. Thank you. I will, of course, only try what I have from my ministry and touch other institutions, just as far as I know. Why do I say that? Because we didn't have a special debate at the Council of Ministers' meeting that I could now, on behalf of the entire Council of Ministers, so much so you'll understand and here's the story. This ministry has been notified by Interpol 2. 3rd of this year on the deprivement of the freedom of Mr Ejup Ganić in Great Britain, as stated by Interpol, an extradition request submitted by the Serbian authorities. The notice in question contained information that the Westminster Court ordered Mr. Ejup Ganić to remain in custody until 29. 3. 2010 i.e. until the next hearing, but that he has the opportunity to apply for parole on bail. And that, I hope, is familiar to everyone, because you're from the media, you must all have this information from the media. Immediately after receiving that notice, the BiH Ministry of Justice reacted and asked Interpol Sarajevo on the same day to notify, through Interpol London, the Westminster Court of this contract signed with the Republic of Serbia, the Treaty between BiH and the Republic of Serbia on Amendments and Supplements to the Treaty between BiH, Serbia-Montenegro on Legal Assistance in Criminal and Civility Matters, which has been applicable since 26 February 2010, which between the two countries is subject to jurisdiction and criminal prosecution in cases relating to crimes against humanity and international humanitarian law, including, of course, that agreement covers much more than that, where it is specified that when a decision is taken to prosecute crimes against humanity and international humanitarian law, it will particularly appreciate the nationality and residence of the suspect, the accused person or accused person. On the same day, so on March 2, 2010, the BiH Ministry of Justice addressed the United Kingdom Embassy... and Northern Ireland in Sarajevo and requested the delivery of the above-mentioned contract signed between the Republic of Serbia and BiH, followed by the Ministry of Justice and forwarded, so through the Embassy of Great Britain, this contract with an application to be delivered to the competent court in Westminster, and we did so and, let me say, twice the track, because we delivered it through Interpol Sarajevo on the same day. Also, on 2 March 2010, I wrote a letter to the Minister of Justice of the Republic of Serbia, expressing my dissatisfaction with the fact that the Republic of Serbia has sent a request to the United Kingdom for the temporary arrest of Mr. Ejup Ganić for the purpose of extradition to the Republic of Serbia and at the same time suggested that the competent authorities of Serbia, in accordance with the provisions of the above-mentioned contract, grant criminal prosecution of Mr. Ganić to the judicial authorities in BiH and that the competent British authorities notify the start of the application of the signed contract and the intention to grant 82 criminal prosecution of Mr. Ganić BiH, as well as to withdraw all the warrants and other requested actions requested by the UK in the case. On the same day, therefore, on 2 March 2010, the BiH Ministry of Justice also received a proposal from the BiH Prosecutor's Office for the extradition of Mr Ganić, on the grounds that more crimes against humanity and international humanitarian law are being investigated before the prosecution. The BiH Justice Ministry prepared and forwarded an application to the British competent authority on 3 March this year through the BiH Foreign Ministry for the extradition of Mr Ganić. Day 5. 3. of the BiH Prosecutor's Office, we have received confidence about Mr Ganić's Bosnian Herzegovic citizenship, and we have forwarded the same immediately to the British competent authority in addition to the extradition documentation. Day 10. 3. In 2010, the BiH Ministry of Justice adopted an act by Mr. Ganić's chief and assistant lawyer, asking for advice on the issue of BiH's recommendation to hand over Mr. Ganić. That act was immediately forwarded to the BiH Prosecutor's Office on the same day 10. 3rd of this year, and the answer to that was taken a day later, 11. 3. In this act, it is apparent that a reserve has been put in place in this regard if the request is served to the justice authorities of Great Britain that there is a danger that the case, I say, would escape BiH's jurisdiction. This is explained by several facts and, above all, because they appreciate that this request for extradition should be accompanied by one more quality documentation in terms of either indictments or something like that, or serious intentions in terms of the persecution of Mr Ganić, not just mere mere suspicions, as they say. We also received the above-mentioned act through the Ministry of Foreign Affairs on Day 12. 3. In 2010, where a statement has been asked of us regarding the possibility of delaying the application to British authorities, and for reasons not to endanger BiH's interests, so as not to question BiH's full jurisdiction on cases conducted by its authorities. I'm of course after we studied all this together at the Ministry, and one act and the other and the answer of the prosecution, where actually the prosecution told us nothing else but that we're the organs that are going to evaluate all this and decide what we're going to do, 12. 3rd of this year, following the study of the extradition documents, asked the Foreign Ministry to postpone the submission of applications for the extradition of Mr Ganić to the British authorities, which in no case implies withdrawing the application, because I did not receive such a request from the BiH Prosecutor's Office. And of course we have to decide in this time, which is the time prescribed by the European Convention on Extradition, it is 40 days from the day of the arrest. Day 12. 3. In 2010 we were informed through the media that Mr Ganić was released; we did not get it, of course, by any official means. Here, that's the shortest. Thank you very much. 83
ParlaMint-BA_2010-03-23-0.u33594	I thank the Honorable Minister Čolak. We have the Minister's information as we have it. We can open a discussion about it, and we can define that what we heard is coming to our attention, and we can ask for information from the Council of Ministers and then put it on the agenda the way the point is proposed. I see nodding by the motionors, and I think it means we can continue on the earlier set agenda.
ParlaMint-BA_2010-03-23-0.u33595	Thank you. Since it's going well, no one's arguing, let's move on. Ad. 26. Information from the BiH Council of Ministers on a letter from the Ministry of Security to the United Nations on the declaration of certain BiH organisations related to terrorist organisations and repealing a document that causes legal uncertainty for BiH citizens and institutions This item was put on the agenda on the proposal of MP Zlatko Lagumdžija. I'm opening a debate. __________________ [[no microphone turned on]]
ParlaMint-BA_2010-03-23-0.u33598	Dear MPs, ladies and gentlemen, about texts that appeared in the daily press of 10. 3. In 2010, under the name "Bosnia and Herzegovina sent a false list to the UN Security Council", I would like to point out the following. After the published text as a security minister, I ordered that all documents relating to the BiH Ministry of Security's correspondence be obtained through the BiH Ministry of 84 Foreign Affairs and the UN Security Council. The International Consolidated UN Security Council List was established in 1999 on the basis of Security Council Resolution 1267. Since it is an international consolidated list that obliges all UN members to act on a regular basis, they audited the BiH Security Ministry for the required information to the UN Security Council. In order to identify all relevant facts, I have ordered that all documents be obtained, i.e. the indications of the BiH-Secret Council correspondence participants. The Ministry of Security has nothing to do with this operational jurisdiction, and information to the Security Council is forwarded on the basis of information received by police agencies and other state authorities and anti-terrorism groups and the strengthening of the counterterrorism capabilities appointed by the BiH Council of Ministers 26. 1. 2006. In order to have full information, we are waiting for an answer from the BiH Ministry of Foreign Affairs to which we have sent the act on Day 15. 3. 2010 In oral information from the Minister of Alkalaj I received today, Minister Alkalaj signed this information during today or somewhere this morning and is likely to be within the day because it has not yet reached the Ministry of Security. After gathering all information and obtaining all relevant acts relating to the Consolidated UN Security Council List, I will be able to fully present information on the delivery of data on the Consolidated List and whether the procedure for placing BiH legal and natural persons on the designated list has been respected. On the basis of the above, I ask the MPs to have an understanding of the lack of complete information, as we have accessed extremely thoroughly, cautiously and professionally in determining the complete production of cases and correspondence with the UN. Taking into account the gravity of the problem, I would suggest that the above information is also discussed by the Joint Commission on Defence and Security of both the BiH Parliamentary Assembly's homes. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-BA_2010-03-23-0.u33599	I thank the minister. I'm opening a debate.
ParlaMint-BA_2010-03-23-0.u33600	No microphone turned on
ParlaMint-BA_2010-03-23-0.u33601	Okay, I'm not saying it won't end if no one answers. But Reverend Slavko Jovičić called and asked for his word. Here you go. 85
ParlaMint-BA_2010-03-23-0.u33602	Thank you, Your Honor. Well, I think it would be as good as Mr. Lozančić suggested earlier that we get full information from the Council of Ministers, because we can only accept this because we don't have full information right now. To conduct a debate where we will not learn anything new than we have learned from Mr. Minister, but to wait for that additional report or an additional report by the Ministry of Foreign Affairs and Minister Alkalaj, so that when you get full information, as you do, Mr. Justice Minister, when you get full information about all of this and the Council of Ministers, the Council of Ministers to adopt it at their session, and then you, as resolute ministers, propose it to Parliament here and show how it was, how the Council of Ministers saw it, and then we conduct the debate. So now I think we just get to know each other, there's no need to talk about anything special. Thank you.
ParlaMint-BA_2010-03-23-0.u33603	Thank you. Dear Ambassador Šefik Džaferović. Here you go.
ParlaMint-BA_2010-03-23-0.u33604	Well, here's what I'm supposed to say formally, even though I've already said what I've already had to say, informally. We decided to wait for the full information of the Council of Ministers, as is the item of the agenda of the Council of Ministers, but we did not want to hurt the minister who came here, showed respect for this home, and presented what he as minister has. And I respect that and I thank you. And then we agreed to keep that in mind and wait for information from the Council of Ministers and then discuss it. I think this part of the agenda deserves the same treatment because it has the same name. I'm not the promoter, my colleague Lagumdžija is the promoter, but I think if we went one way, then I think we should go, especially since the Minister of Security is here and I said that this is complete information, because this is a question that we will be dealing with in BiH for sure. I mean, the time has come for us to start dealing with this issue right, and, well, here's the thing, I'm not opening up any further discussion.
ParlaMint-BA_2010-03-23-0.u33605	Thank you. I also agree with you, and I think we should do it that way, but it doesn't give me the right not to give the others a word and say what they think, especially if they're proposing this agenda. 86 Dear Ambassador Zlatko Lagumdžija. Here you go.
ParlaMint-BA_2010-03-23-0.u33606	I thank you, Mr. Chairman. First, I thank the Minister of Security who found it appropriate to address us, not to give us information but to address us and to consider it really correct on his part as probably others that he showed respect for this home, in the end of the day, in which he sat himself, even if he has no obligation to do so. I'm sorry, I'm sorry, because I'm sorry today I have lectures that I've had before on schedule and I just came out practically for this so that this point doesn't turn... where I am when I suggested it. So, if I understood correctly, today the foreign minister told him that he had signed the relevant information he had sent to the minister, so that he would forward to us which the minister had not yet received. ________________________ According to the Council of Ministers. According to the Council of Ministers. However, I mean, with all due respect when we haven't gotten all the information, I'm sorry, and I sincerely hope that maybe Perković from the Foreign Ministry, seeing him here, I don't know if he's sitting on this spot, but what's crucial to me right now: can anyone tell us if any information has been sent to the UN by any of the institutions, any authority of this country with information that certain organisations pose a terrorist threat to anyone. At the very least, don't get me wrong, but the fire is under way, we will, when the Minister of Security gives us information, see who set the fire, how it happened. However, the house is on fire right now. Right now, if only someone from the Foreign Ministry had told us if anything had gone and if what went down was in the official documents and internal databases of the Security Council when it came to terrorism. I don't think what's gone, whatever's gone, is going to make some drama out there. It's perfectly natural if there's a non-existent Iranian secret intelligence service on that list that people won't ban it and, in the end, that's not our problem. So it's not that much of a problem in itself. But there are institutions and individuals there that exist in this country and are related to this country. So I would ask, in anticipation of this information, that we are simply given an answer to the question of whether anything has gone and if it's gone to task the competent institutions of the domain of international relations to simply... stop it, to step on the Security Council until this matter in our country is cleared. I'm saying it for that, people, because this information itself has a lot of stuff going on and is worth investigating. What this 87 is done, with which intent, what damage has been done, what institutions have been abused here, etc.? And that's something that complete information needs. And that's looking for the pyromaniacs who set the fire, where the fire might still be smoldering. But let me say that at this point, this should simply be withdrawn if there's anything. To give an order to the UN ambassador, I have no idea who, I don't even know what you've done. In other words, the damage was done. I ask you, I will also suggest that if you want, that today in waiting for what is really a broader context, we make some conclusion that what has been sent here with state press releases to be done there so that no one is removed from the plane because he has a BBI bank card and a preporod job to speak on the theme "woman Women" and to stop him at the Frankfurt airport and then no one cares about that person because he was not the head of state, because he is not an ordinary citizen of this country, but an unusual citizen in a very ordinary mission that is common here. So, well, I'd just ask the answer to that so you could discuss it at all.
ParlaMint-BA_2010-03-23-0.u33608	Replica, honourable Ambassador Drago Kalabić. Here you go.
ParlaMint-BA_2010-03-23-0.u33609	It's a shame this hall doesn't have a window to get this nonsense out because we can't open one at this point and something like this that we have to listen to. So we're staying on that first piece of information to supplement. That's what we stay on. And this idiotism that someone's wearing a sign "I'm a terrorist" on them so they'll recognize it everywhere, I haven't heard of a terrorist wearing a sign anywhere. Hundreds of officers and agents are looking for specialists. This unserious approach to this story as someone already knows there's nothing here, whether or not there's nothing, we said when we see complete information, so someone's going to say that maybe there are institutions, maybe, that aren't places, and maybe someone's going to say that some are missing. But about that after. But about that story, this is unserious, this is, somebody's, I don't know, kiddin', it's all nice, it's all good, they should all travel, everybody's walking, and I don't know, somebody's gonna have problems, because everybody else is marked you know, all over the world, all over the airport, they go with a big sign and they see them from miles away. So I don't think we're allowed to play with this and I'm going to stand here waiting for information.
ParlaMint-BA_2010-03-23-0.u33610	Dear Ambassador Bakir Izetbegović has a replica. Here you go.
ParlaMint-BA_2010-03-23-0.u33611	Well, I don't see that, in fact, I haven't heard any nonsense here, Mr. Kalabić, these are very serious and dangerous things. Marking Air Bosnia and Herzegovina and the Rebirth that they're terrorist 88 organizations, plus that that car and it's poisoning around the world, it's not any anonymous terrorists that someone needs to recognize right now. So, from the Ministry, where the minister is our co-worker this morning, there's a letter saying there are 45 organizations that can connect to terrorism, and then we saw some list in the media of the 45. Here, we're asking the minister today if in his ministry he asked the man who signed it. Is it really that 45, here I am now asking him here again and I ask him to at least clear that thing up for us today. Did he clear that up with his deputy, assistant? The man sent it there, it's not nonsense, Mr. Kalabić, but very dangerous things that there are 45 organizations in Bosnia that are being associated with terrorism. So, officially from this ministry, that thing is gone. I'm asking the minister if he's cleared that thing up. What 45? Does his deputy, or assistant, know what he was referring to? And what Professor Lagumdžija says isn't any unreal thing to happen to someone stuck at an airport somewhere, to have a very ugly situation in life. Now, I ask you, Minister, to at least clear this detail for today.
ParlaMint-BA_2010-03-23-0.u33612	My fellow Members and fellow Members, I remind you that for the third time we will continue the session. According to the report, I expect the debate to be taken here and to start using words that may lead us to interrupt this session for the fourth time. I beg you, it was the Kolegijuma's intention to complete the work of this session today and preferably start a new one. __________________ [[no microphone turned on]] The intention is to share the Kolegijum with you and ask you to finish the session in that direction. However, if you are eager for mutual discussion, I will allow it, but I want you to treat each other with respect. The second vice-president, Mr. Beriz Belkić. Here you go.
ParlaMint-BA_2010-03-23-0.u33614	It's not a replica, it's a kind of warning, Mr. Kalabić, to you. I agreed with the Kolegijum last time, or last time, that Mr Lagumdžija use words that are not like this House. However, you did it twice today, called the discussion idiotism and nonsense. I'm really asking for a fair-play relationship. 89 If you ask that others also require this, I now ask you to refrain from such qualifications, you do not have to agree, but those words of idiotism and stupidity are not fair.
ParlaMint-BA_2010-03-23-0.u33615	Dear Ambassador Momčilo Novaković, replica. Here you go.
ParlaMint-BA_2010-03-23-0.u33616	Mr. Chairman, I can't understand that we started having a debate without having any information. Here I can't understand Mr. Lagumdžija that he suggested the agenda point without having any information. So he asked for information, so now people say they can't give information now, but at the next meeting, the Council of Ministers will provide information. I think it's quite correct and enough to end this debate today and wait for that information. I don't know, some obviously people have good connections with these intelligence services, so then they immediately know all the information and who they are and who they're not. I had nothing to do with those intelligence services, so I wouldn't discuss it without information. And I don't know who's to blame or who's not to blame, whether there's one there or not. And I don't want to do it at all until I get the information. I'm asking you, really colleagues, that if we're going to discuss this on the basis of some flat-rate writings in the paper, based on everything we've been able to hear and see on TV these days, then I'm sure that this debate will be as fruitful as many of the people we've led here when we have information in front of us as we have, right now.
ParlaMint-BA_2010-03-23-0.u33617	I give my word to Minister Ahmetović Sadik. Here you go.
ParlaMint-BA_2010-03-23-0.u33618	I don't think there's any need to make, to replicate, to raise any kind of tension. I assure you, because of the seriousness of this problem that it is the Ministry and that I have personally approached very seriously and thoroughly to put this all on the table. So you will have complete information safely, perhaps next week, which is very extensive information, and that of all the relevant institutions that had to do with this or that delivered it. So now you can say that you see what is real truth. I would be unserious to believe that without information from the Foreign Ministry that was only authorized to make correspondence with our mission to the UN, and I believe that the information from the Foreign Ministry was delayed because of this correspondence they had with our mission in the UN, because they had to get feedback, probably from the UN, that they were also responding to what they got from the Foreign Ministry. In this file, which is extensive, there are also documents marked as “secret”, “very secret”, etc., etc., etc. So I didn't suggest that when we get all this information, 90 when I get information from the Foreign Ministry, that this is being considered by this Committee on Defence and Security, so where I'm going to be present, there will be a deputy minister present, and that we determine if we have to do all day and that this question, which certainly marred the credibility of different organisations in BiH, is therefore complete and that we are not making any more speculation about it. I beg you, so here's my suggestion, if that's possible. Of course, we can open a story here today that can't ultimately result because it's a very large material, and when you see that material, then we'll all be able to tell it differently. Some things have been determined, what I've seen so far, but I think we should wait for finally this information from Minister Alkalaj. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-BA_2010-03-23-0.u33619	I think the minister's position was quite clear and led to a solution to this agenda. I'm asking all those who don't need to discuss after all these clarifications to log out. But here, I'll give you a chance for a replica. __________________ [[no microphone turned on]] Thank you. Dear Ambassador Sefer Halilović, please. And you, Azra Hadžiahmetović.
ParlaMint-BA_2010-03-23-0.u33621	You see, Chairman, I'm asking you not to interrupt me because I'm going to speak briefly, which has nothing to do with the agenda. Two weeks ago, this parliament, at a temperature of 40° in this room, because these two topics were extremely current, voted to include this in the agenda. I'm only saying this for the reasons we're going to behave in the future, not to slow down the specific weight of the topics proposed by my colleague Lagumdžija. But how did we react? We immediately placed it in the agenda under the "Information of the Council of Ministers". And of course, now the temperature has gone down, it's been 13 days since, and we'll continue to wait for the Council of Ministers for information. I just want to draw attention to this, it's true, fellow Novaković, as you said, we're not going to discuss this on the basis of some flat-rate newspaper reports, but based on these reports, we put it on the agenda. Let's ask ourselves, "How do we classify the agenda?" I want more attention for the future. Indeed, here I do not argue that we should react to some current events, but let's not put it on the agenda right now, let's look for first information within one of the Council of Ministers and then put that point as a part of the agenda. Because 91 this isn't the first time, the chairman, that without a document like this, without the accompanying material, we put something on the agenda, handling the specific weight of the topic, and then we don't have the basis for discussion, we won't discuss it, and we lose an hour. I'm sorry, but let's all ask ourselves a little bit. Thank you.
ParlaMint-BA_2010-03-23-0.u33622	Thank you, and I absolutely agree with that, you have my support on this. Dear Ambassador Mirko Okolić. Select a discussion, a replica.
ParlaMint-BA_2010-03-23-0.u33623	No microphone turned on
ParlaMint-BA_2010-03-23-0.u33624	Thank you. Moving to the 27th point of the agenda: Ad. 27. Information on sanctioning executioners of verbal and physical objections against journalists in Bosnia and Herzegovina and a proposal for measures (the BiH Ministry of Security material, act No: 01-6-50-632-1/10 of 2. 2. 2010) The BiH Security Ministry is 9. 2. delivered the Information in accordance with the conclusions of the House, adopted at the 55th session, and with our Urgenisation of the same. The relevant Joint Defence and Security Committee delivered its opinion 9. 3. and proposes to the House to adopt the following conclusion: 'The House of Representatives is asking the BiH Ministry of Security to make a concrete and precise proposal for measures, given that the proposal for measures is general and inaccurate.' I'm opening an information debate. Dear Ambassador Denis Bećirović, please.
ParlaMint-BA_2010-03-23-0.u33626	Here you go. 92 I propose that as a House, we support the opinion of the Joint Commission for Defence and Security of BiH. I won't repeat or waste the time we've been looking for, and we're aware of what we've got. So we didn't get what we were looking for, this material we have isn't what the House of Representatives was looking for. Therefore, it seems to me that the only possible conclusion is to support this conclusion of the Joint Commission on Defence and Security, and it is, above all, to Dom, therefore 'that the Ministry of Security makes a concrete and precise proposal for measures, given that the proposal for measures is general and imprecise.' Here's to not spreading further, I think at this point he can draw such a single conclusion and ask for really complete information on this subject.
ParlaMint-BA_2010-03-23-0.u33627	Thank you. The second vice-president, Mr. Beriz Belkić. Here you go.
ParlaMint-BA_2010-03-23-0.u33628	Here's what I'm doing. I'm in a hurry to waste as little time as possible. I agree with what Denis is talking about, or I agree with this committee's position. However, the processor himself says in this information that the data he has prepared is not complete, that it should be completed with data from other institutions, RACs, the Press Council, etc. So this information as it came and why our commission expressed the reserve, or in some way suggested that position... and according to this information is because this information is not complete. So, if we support our commission's position and ask for more operational, more concrete measures, then we should also refer to the request, the initiative to ask for information when it is sought, if there is no relevant ministry of that data, let it work, let it communicate with the other institutions and make it complete. I don't think that's forbidden. And one sentence about what Ambassador Azra Hadžiahmetović said, so why not say, so we individuals must also endure this pressure, this daily political action. So, at the cost of being attacked by journalists tomorrow for not supporting the ad hoc initiatives submitted here that have no chance. Therefore, the future Club of Members of the SBiH is certain when it assesses regardless of the currentity and importance of the moment will no longer be subject to pressures. So, when we estimate that the result of the end will be bare zero, as the newspaper says, we will no longer support it.
ParlaMint-BA_2010-03-23-0.u33629	Thank you. Dear Ambassador Martin Raguž has a replica, please. 93
ParlaMint-BA_2010-03-23-0.u33630	It's not a replica, it's supposed to be an analysis of how one of the clubs was set up when these points were on the agenda.
ParlaMint-BA_2010-03-23-0.u33631	Thank you. No more reports. We're moving to the 28th item of the agenda. I thank the Minister. Ad. 28. Information from the Ministry of Foreign Affairs of Bosnia and Herzegovina on the opening of Republika Srpska's representation abroad (a proposal for inclusion in the agenda: the Foreign Affairs Commission), act No: 01/2a–50–2–59/10 of 3.2. and 19.2.2010 The Commission for Foreign Affairs is 3. 2. delivered conclusions, (there is no need to read conclusions, there is), you received a report. The Home College held a 16th session at 123rd session. 2. asked the Commission to deliver the material that would serve the debate and clearly specify the agenda point in order to include the Kolegijum in the session agenda. The Commission is 19. 2. submitted a proposal to include this item in the agenda of the House session as well as the necessary material. I'm opening an information debate. The second vice-president, Mr. Beriz Belkić. He's on his way. There you go.
ParlaMint-BA_2010-03-23-0.u33633	I don't have anything special to add when it comes to this committee's position. And it is difficult, in addition to some obvious intentions, to justify proving something in some situations, and I must agree that the Supreme Authority for the assessment of the constitutionality of this issue is the Constitutional Court. And that's where we took the appropriate steps, and again we asked for a constitutional assessment, this time with some other arguments. But there's one very interesting question, we'll try to answer it. What are the economic effects of all these representations both in the RS, possibly in the Federation? So, it would be very interesting for the public of BiH, so if we claim that the economic nature and promotion of businesses, the acquisition of businesses, to come up with data that are the economic effects of such structures that are being set up Evo, just to say something, so when it comes to 94 constitutionalities we will go towards, we have gone back to the Constitutional Court, but we will try to get the data that economic effects are achieved by these representations in the world.
ParlaMint-BA_2010-03-23-0.u33634	Dear Ambassador Momčilo Novaković, replica. Here you go.
ParlaMint-BA_2010-03-23-0.u33635	Thank you, Mr. Chairman. Well, I don't think this point has been found on the agenda that we're now presenting what anybody did or what they're going to do, it could've been done without this agenda point. I have to say, it's not common for these agendas to be found in this way. We, be careful, here, is the point of 'Instruction of the BiH Ministry of Foreign Affairs for the opening of the RS foreign office, proposal for inclusion in the agenda: Foreign Affairs Commission, i.e. Foreign Affairs, Act No...', etc. This information wasn't on the Council of Ministers, as far as I know, or it was, so I'd like to know if this Foreign Affairs Commission has asked the Council of Ministers for information or for the Ministry of Foreign Affairs. In order for the information to have weight, it must come from the Council of Ministers, not from the Ministry of Foreign Affairs. He must have a clear view of the Council of Ministers on this matter. Look, this is one improvisation by this commission, I don't know with what intention, and I know what the goal is at all to get this on the agenda, and then here we get a response from the Foreign Ministry, so we don't get the information, but we get a response from the Foreign Ministry to this commission's inquiry. And I think the Commission was supposed to finish this job at its session. If the Foreign Affairs Commission thought to refer it to Parliament, then it had to deal with this issue much more seriously. So much more serious than she did. This kind of information could have come from the Council of Ministers, not from our commission, and that's why I won't even want to get into the details of this information at all. So I don't care at all what it says, because I don't think it came in the way that it's common here in this parliament, or at a session of this house.
ParlaMint-BA_2010-03-23-0.u33636	Thank you. Dear Ambassador Husein Nanić, a discussion. Here you go.
ParlaMint-BA_2010-03-23-0.u33637	I thank you, Chairman. So we have this information on the agenda of today's session. And by preparing to discuss this information, I did a little searching for some data, I looked up on the RS government website, I looked up on the web pages of these presentations of basic information. And from some institutions, I've tried to get data, and I think that based on that data, 95 shows that a certain order should be introduced into an area treated in this information. This information shows that RS business offices have five, plus two that intend to open. However, from all the information I have tried to obtain is the key thing that foreign policy is in the exclusive jurisdiction of the BiH state, not its entities. About this and another thing, which is that foreign trade and economic relations with abroad are also the constitutional jurisdiction of the BiH state. I could not see anywhere that, in any way, the Ministry of Foreign Affairs or the Ministry of Foreign Trade and Economic Relations with abroad was involved in the opening or operation of these offices. And the third thing, nowhere from this information could it be seen that the Foreign Chamber of Commerce of BiH was involved here. When you open the office's website in Brussels, if you didn't know the letter it says, you wouldn't be able to recognize in any way... that it's a BiH representation in any way. The next thing, this information shows that the way the directors of these presidencies are appointed and a document called the Order of the President of the Republic of Slovenia is indeed unusual, unadjusted and I don't think it can justify its name for the appointment of the Director of Business Representations. And the next thing is that one of the business representations, for example. A business representativeship in Studgart, we, BiH, in the Federal Republic of Germany, i.e. in Germany has an embassy and three consulates, means in the same city there is a consulate and it has a business representation. And the interesting thing is that, according to my knowledge, there is absolutely no communication between our consulate and these representations between the activities of these representations and our embassies in the countries that are in Israel, in Moscow, in some, in these five places. And it's interesting what BiH's economic activity is in Israel and what business activity BiH is in Washington, or RS. I would like to say that I support the way in which it is normally common in the world for regions to open their economic representations and to support it. However, what is happening in this area and from the information we received from the Ministry shows that there are other intentions, that there are certain jobs that do not belong to business representations, that they are bypassed institutions that should be involved in these activities. And for that reason, I think that's the thing that's justified today and today's session and that we can and that we need to discuss it. For this reason, I would like to propose a perhaps concrete conclusion, given this colourfulness that exists and the need for regions that express their interest in having these representations: to invite the BiH Presidency to establish procedures for opening BiH's foreign representations, which do not have the character of diplomatic and consular representations, in accordance with the Constitution. It means that in a unique way because, according to the information that I have: when another country, when it works, Austria opens such a representation of any region in BiH, there is a certain note of that state as a legitimacy that it is. That no five representative offices appear tomorrow, that 96 different interpretations, abuses, etc. do not appear. In that sense, I will suggest this conclusion, so, and I would ask fellow MPs to support it.
ParlaMint-BA_2010-03-23-0.u33638	Thank you. Dear Ambassador Slavko Matić, please.
ParlaMint-BA_2010-03-23-0.u33639	Thank you very much, Mr. President. This is obviously another one in a series of policy-friendly and political conflicts, and I personally would not like to do so, and I will try not to contribute in this direction through my debate. At its one of the previous meetings, the Foreign Affairs Committee adopted the conclusion "to request information from the Ministry of Foreign Affairs". The reason for asking for this information was to know that certain representatives of the Government of the Republic of Slovenia are open at individual destinations in European countries and Israel. In that conclusion, we also requested information from the Bureau on this act of opening such representative offices. We didn't get that other information, we only got this information from the Ministry of Foreign Affairs and this is the answer and colleagues to Novaković, indeed, we managed and had only this information available to the Ministry of Foreign Affairs. I think that this information in its content is as short as possible and that it is properly written and personally supported primarily by the last position in this information – that on the legality itself, the constitutionality of the establishment of such representations should be given by the Constitutional Court of BiH, and no one else is obviously in this direction competent. And for a better, more objective assessment of the purpose, goal, and even legality, if you will, the constitutionality of the opening of these offices could all be given together if we also had information from the Presidency, as constitutionally competent institutions for the management of foreign affairs, but also information from the Government of the Republic of Slovenia, as bodies and bodies that have decided to establish such representations in individual destinations. We don't have each other today. It is one of the possible outcomes in today's debate that the House of Representatives concludes that we are getting all this information. That this information received from the Ministry of Foreign Affairs may be reviewed at a meeting of the Council of Ministers as such, either extended or otherwise, and that we may request further information from the Presidency or the Government of the Republic of Slovenia on this issue. If we get all that, we could probably talk with a lot more arguments about this problem. I still don't think the Foreign Ministry has gone here too far or too deep in the evaluations of the opening of these offices. It also led to the possibility that this is no precedent in the world, as counterpart Nanić already mentioned, that in economic, economic terms, above all, regions within the EU find their place in opening such representations at the EU headquarters in Brussels, as Canton Sarajevo did. But the fundamental question here is whether these representations are of an economic character or someone else. However, the information of 97 to the foreign ministry does not have enough data and arguments to conclude one or the other. I think it is a fundamental lack that the Presidency, as far as I know, will be there and that there will be problems with taking a stand and about this case, but it is necessary to show the Presidency as the only constitutional competent body for the management of foreign affairs, even if it is according to Parliament that there is an individual determination of each member of the Presidency, and we do not have that either. And I have to say that this has become a practice, one bad practice that has not responded in any way, in any way or in any way, to any of the demands of the Committee on Foreign Affairs, or that it agrees or disagrees. We have simply experienced ignoring and overcoming any of our demands from previous problems with the DKP network, the closure of individual consulates and embassies, through shifts and appointments of new ones etc. All of our demands and commissions, and I think this respectable home has on several occasions sought information on the same issues, we have never received an answer from the Presidency.
ParlaMint-BA_2010-03-23-0.u33640	Thank you. Dear Ambassador Martin Raguž, here you are.
ParlaMint-BA_2010-03-23-0.u33641	I thank you, Mr. President. We have now heard from the chairman of the Committee on Foreign Affairs of our home that he has been asked by the Presidency to give an opinion on this. And that is very important information, because the only BiH presidency is authorized to establish guidelines and lead foreign policy under the Constitution of this country, that is Article III. point 1 is replaced by the following: Why the Bureau does not, on several occasions, respond to the demands of the House of Representatives or the Parliamentary Assembly, it is now a second question. It looks like that one to me personally, and I'm not asking for any confirmation in that people's village, and the grandmother's combing. So it is impossible not to have one answer for the public and for Parliament on this. What an answer that will be, I'm not getting into it,...I really don't think there's any excuse that we don't have one piece of information from the Presidency. And I think the minimum thing that we can do today is not to pollomise too much about this is to conclude the House. Why, why did I answer my word? Less or less we all had the opportunity to travel to countries, either in the region, or in Europe, and what fascinated me when I was in Germany was the way they reconciled the interests of the province and the federal state. Then you have the possibility that Bavaria or North Westphalia have their own representation in Berlin, meaning in the federal state. And not only that, they have their own representation in Brussels, in addition to that in the EU. But it's all settled in the context of what's a state-level deal. And there's no partial interest that's out of state interest. Do we have an answer here? If we have that, then we are in favour of regional cooperation and supporting opening and communication and I think that in that direction we should focus on some of the best experiences... and get assurances that things and opening those representations make sense only in that context. In any other context that I don't want to talk about, because I don't have enough information, we need to get an assessment of those who are relevant to make that assessment politically. 98 The second question is the Constitutional Court. Let go, the Constitutional Court is the Constitutional Court, it appreciates the constitutionality of certain things, but this is a matter of responsibility for the conduct of foreign policy which is in the exclusive jurisdiction of the BiH presidency. And I think that very quickly we need to get one information, insist on it in continuity at each session, so that we do not enter into some inadequate assessments, judgments that can question tomorrow one new dimension of BiH's representation, its entities and everything else, which is logically that it can take place multidisciplinaryly in several ways, with more instruments, and that it can all function as a common goal, which is to promote the interests of this country, and also some of its works in terms of more favourable and quality representation, but not to endanger what is the constitutional interest and constitutional category. And here's my proposal for a conclusion will go on demand to refer it to the BiH presidency.
ParlaMint-BA_2010-03-23-0.u33642	Dear Ambassador Željko Kuzmanović, replica. Here you go.
ParlaMint-BA_2010-03-23-0.u33643	Dear Chairman, ladies and gentlemen of the Parliament, I will briefly replicate my colleagues, Raguž. No Niko here argues, especially from the RS that foreign policy is in the BiH presidency's jurisdiction, but economic policy cannot also be brought into the presidency's jurisdiction by an entity. It is also known that... as part of the RS government there is also the Ministry of Economic Relations with Foreign Affairs within which these economic representations work. On the other hand, I must... remind you, Mr. Raguž, when you were already talking about the partial interests of certain German provinces, we had a classic example of the partial interest of Mr. Štojber, as a representative of Bavaria, during the conclusion of the Hipo Alpe Adria Banka in Croatia where he was using his position trying to make purchases... Hypo Alpe Adria Banka by Bayer... bank. ...where the talks were held with the top of Croatian politics, so much so that there were no partial interests and other sides. Thank you.
ParlaMint-BA_2010-03-23-0.u33644	Dear Ambassador Martin Raguž, replica.
ParlaMint-BA_2010-03-23-0.u33645	Well, I don't think I gave any reason for what you, Mr. Kuzmanović, said. I have not disputed the right to open, not in any sentence. On the contrary, I pointed out the examples of Germany as possible and in what way. __________________ 99 [[no microphone turned on]] So I didn't challenge that right at all, and you imputed to me that I challenged that right and that was how your replica was interpreted. I merely demanded that we get information on how and how the collective head of this state sees this situation, because it is the only relevant under the Constitution, not including the possibility of opening these representations. On the contrary, I said that I think it can be opened, which is to say it can be opened but is consistent with the one who runs the foreign policy and that they have a function other than partial that they are in a function of common interest. That's all I said. __________________ [[no microphone turned on]]
ParlaMint-BA_2010-03-23-0.u33647	All right, all right.
ParlaMint-BA_2010-03-23-0.u33648	No, no, I mean.
ParlaMint-BA_2010-03-23-0.u33649	I know. Dear Ambassador Denis Bećirović. Here you go.
ParlaMint-BA_2010-03-23-0.u33650	First of all, what fellow Matić was also talking about is that a broad debate was held at the 59th session of the Commission for Foreign Affairs on 2 February at the Commission's foreign affairs session. At this time, the Foreign Affairs Commission in the presence of and authorised representatives of the foreign ministry adopted two conclusions, one of these conclusions is to discuss this at the House of Representatives session. And I personally think that this is a very serious topic that needs to be discussed seriously and that we are already late talking about this topic. When it comes to these representations of the RS, there are several open questions that we must ask today at the House of Representatives session, and not only here but also at other competent addresses to clarify to the end what it is about. First, we need to clarify the name. So the name given to these representations is 'RS Representation', so there is no economic name or any other name, which is dominant and obligation from the aspect of diplomatic practice and what lies in the world's diplomatic encyclopaedias. The second open question that we should be given a very clear answer is the appointment of a representative director, which is being carried out by 'The Order of the President of the Republic of Slovenia', which also concerns. The third open question is that the staff working in those offices are recruited from diplomatic personnel and those who were at the foreign ministry. And the fourth open question that we as state lawmakers must ask, given that we have been part of it, the Ministry of Foreign Affairs and the Council of Ministers intensively 100 is developing this strategy of economic diplomacy. As far as I know, a specific strategy has been made on this plan. Can't all these representations work through our diplomatic and consular offices? Wouldn't that probably be more effective, and certainly cheaper? We have to answer questions like that. This representation when you ask for information, the colleague Nanić also spoke about it, very little will be given to you by the real data on their work, etc. Part of the data is on the RS government website. It is interesting that all of these websites are exclusively talking about the RS, its geopolitical, economic, tourism potentials, etc., and that there is no mention of the BiH state and that RS is an integral part of the BiH state. And that's a question that needs to be taken very seriously. Up until now, the RS has opened five representations: Belgium, Israel, the Russian Federation, Serbia and the SR Germany. When you look at who the people representing these diplomatic representations are, you will immediately come to the conclusion that the consistency of the people in that entity and in the Constitution of the RS is completely impaired, it says very clearly that they are both Bošnjak and Srbin and Hrvat and others. By these names there is no equality, this is a completely almost one-national composition. When you're looking for information about the budget, how much funding these representations have spent, and what are the effects, then you won't get anywhere near any data, although there are indications that much more is invested in the fictional existence of these representations than they are in any, especially the economic effect. Finally, the fact that we have official grades from the foreign minister, therefore from the ministry, which are very serious and make us think. The information we received literally states: 'The analysis of the opening and establishment of the RS representations indicates that the concept of their formation, the absence of a specific economic, the appointment of a director by the Order of the President of the Republic of Slovenia, the recruitment of the first people is often made out of diplomacy by a single perception in both domestic and international public that these representations are increasingly trying to present themselves as parallel diplomacy of the RS'. Now, that would be a difficult assessment if we hadn't heard from the RS prime minister publicly yesterday in which direction he wanted to go. Yesterday, the man publicly said that his concept and vision were 'to try to unify', as he said. On the side, which is absolutely impossible but he tends to it. If we take this statement seriously and consider that this is the exclusive jurisdiction of the BiH state and that, as it stands in this information of the Ministry of Foreign Affairs, it is an attempt to create parallel diplomacy and collapse of the state, then we really have a serious problem, and it can no longer be put under the rug. Furthermore, the assessment also says that such representations do not contribute to the cohesion of BiH-level efforts in terms of creating political stability, effective and rational states. So I don't think we're going to close this debate today, but I think it needs to be opened most seriously, and in addition, I suggest the following conclusions. That the BiH Parliamentary Assembly's House of Representatives clearly states today that this conclusion also goes to entities and cantons in this country: '1. RS representations, as well as other representations in this country... their mandate, mission, establishment and establishment procedures must be in line with the BiH Constitution and constitutional powers of the BiH presidency. 101 2. That the House of Representatives, concerning this information, is asking for an indication and additional information from the BiH Council of Ministers as a whole and the BiH Presidency." The third conclusion that would make a lot of sense to me: '3. We should also ask the OHR's position on this issue, since foreign policy is in the exclusive jurisdiction of the BiH state."
ParlaMint-BA_2010-03-23-0.u33651	Mr. Živković, wrong quote.
ParlaMint-BA_2010-03-23-0.u33652	Thank you. At least three are false allegations, one is a guilty allegation that on behalf of the RS representative, there is no prefix of economics. You called the Government of the Republic of Slovenia and I believe you've read it. But I don't understand why you're talking like that when on the government site of the RS literally stands the Slovenian Business Office in Brussels, the Kingdom of Belgium, the Business Representation of the Republic of Israel, the Business Representation of the Republic of Slovenia in the Russian Federation, continue not to quote. If you are not familiar with the letter mentioned here, you also have the English version. And I don't understand why you say that when you read it. At the same time, when you opened that site, you also saw that Mr. Arijel Ibnej, and he is not a Srbin, at the Slovenian Business Office in Israel. And not all representatives of one nation. And that's an incorrect quote, and I don't know why you're giving instructions when that's the case. And the third allegation is incorrect that you took and read the Information that came from the Foreign Ministry. You've seen, in fact, this minister hasn't even seen it. Because it's already happened that we've been getting from the Foreign Affairs Department acts that the minister hasn't received. I will mention an act that has reached the Joint College that states that the translation of the Dayton Agreement should be done by France, not BiH. And when I talked to him, he said he didn't even see that document. Apparently, he didn't see this document either, and that's just his signature, and then you need to check it out when you're reading the documents, and I don't understand why you're doing it. It is clear to all that the RS has had the right to open economic representations, that these economic representations are not in the power of this Parliament to determine whether they are effective, not effective, how much money they spent and what economic reasons they had. That it will continue to work as the Canton of Sarajevo has done, as the Vojvodina has done, as the Un-San canton can do, all here who want to have business contacts and development with some country. Dear Ambassador Denis Bećirović, replica. Here you go. 102
ParlaMint-BA_2010-03-23-0.u33653	I don't know how long ago my colleague Novaković did this death salto up on the board, but, well, it doesn't matter. You should say the following. First, a colleague of Živković, you are probably aware that the foreign minister himself is on the outreach committee's behalf, and here the President of the Foreign Affairs Commission has asked the competent entity institutions to deliver their opinion on this information. And they didn't even deign to deliver any opinion or information. So much for how exclusive the BiH state's jurisdiction is, they weren't even able to coordinate these activities. And another thing for these two or three thesis you listed. I don't know why you're trying to justify it when the president of your party publicly says last night in which direction a man wants to go, one of the kinds of activities on that plan is this parallel diplomacy. And that's at least clear now, the man admitted it, there's nothing more to assume. The only question now is how will this parliament, the Council of Ministers, OHR, the international community and all other authorities respond.
ParlaMint-BA_2010-03-23-0.u33654	Well, what can I tell you about that? Dear Ambassador Momčilo Novaković, please.
ParlaMint-BA_2010-03-23-0.u33655	Thank you, Mr. Chairman. I have to say that I would accept everything that my colleagues have said if they had any indication that these representations work the way they're now saying they work. I'd say okay, here I am against, I can't run that presidency's foreign policy, because it's not their constitutional jurisdiction. But to make such a coin from the Ministry's information? Who's very suspicious about recruiting people from diplomacy? Imagine it's very suspicious that people who know languages go there! I guess they should go who don't know anything, so they're kind of like that representation actually turns into something completely different. Look, you can't believe when a man sets a goal for himself, what all arguments he can find to make that goal look, or to make what he planned seem realistic. I really didn't think about this seriously, I didn't even want to read this, because I don't think this is serious. First, I don't think it's serious what my colleague Bećirović is talking about, because Mr. Živković's party president says one week it's not on the agenda, the second week says we'll split up, the third week we'll split up, and the fourth week it all depends on when he says it and who provoked him to say it.
ParlaMint-BA_2010-03-23-0.u33656	But it's certainly not on the agenda today. 103
ParlaMint-BA_2010-03-23-0.u33657	And that's not on the agenda today. So I think we should end this the way we leave this, take this and leave it and not deal with this, because it's none of our business. There's a village over there with me, Kalabe's name. You know, they've always voted for the communists and they vote for the communists day and day. And I guess he'll never vote otherwise. And when Russia entered the Czech Republic, then they met and condemned Russia's incursion into the Czech Republic and asked Russia to withdraw within 24 hours. And when someone got up and said, "What do we do if they don't back down?" He says we'll meet again. So, here's what I'm proposing for these RS reps to bring this back. If they don't want to go back to the starting point, we'll meet again.
ParlaMint-BA_2010-03-23-0.u33658	Okay. Dear Ambassador Slavko Jovičić, replica. Here you go.
ParlaMint-BA_2010-03-23-0.u33659	Dear colleague Bećirović, only you kept an eye on one of the facts. And I'm really surprised that you as an experienced politician who has a future, a perspective, are one fact that is most important in all things forgotten. So today you humiliated those countries that gave the opportunity to open up representations. And these countries have recognised BiH's sovereignty. How can you not understand that? Would Germany allow a representation that would be against BiH to be opened? Would she allow it? Here are the Rus. Our brothers are waiting for us. Open up, we'll give you everything. But Germany, Brussels, please Brussels gave! Well, from Brussels, pressure if anyone's experiencing it, they're experiencing RS. Well, if they were dealing with any of these representations, they were betraying visas, passports, so, I'd say, guys, wait, slow down. And those things they have to do, they don't do it right, not you. It's about business representations and these countries know, they give maximum support, we can't live off the representatives of those countries how much they drink on BiH and always take sovereignty... one, you can't disrupt, and today you say that these representations can deal with something else. How? They're dealing with that, these countries allowed it. Mr. Novaković, president, that's exactly what he says.
ParlaMint-BA_2010-03-23-0.u33660	It's not on the agenda.
ParlaMint-BA_2010-03-23-0.u33661	Anyway, we have to... so it's not okay, you're allowed. I wish you'd never mentioned it.
ParlaMint-BA_2010-03-23-0.u33662	How did I know what they were gonna say, but it's not on the agenda today.
ParlaMint-BA_2010-03-23-0.u33663	Dear Chairman, please allow this to be said, allow me to do the two sentences. This party should not be mentioned here, it is not a member of Parliament. 104
ParlaMint-BA_2010-03-23-0.u33664	I didn't know what he was going to say, and I know what you're going to say.
ParlaMint-BA_2010-03-23-0.u33665	You don't know at all. Don't be afraid. President Dodik said last night, he said -- it's always about everything he can talk about -- and he didn't do anything that this parliament should all stand on its feet for me today. I'm standing on my feet because I'm talking. The rest of you sit tight and calm and don't turn the people on. The president simply said we could talk about anything. So is there a problem with the conversations? It's not. Mr. Bećirović, is that all right? Don't be afraid for these representations. When Germany and Brussels give consent, it means they work regularly.
ParlaMint-BA_2010-03-23-0.u33666	The accent is peaceful. Husein Nanić, replica. Here you go.
ParlaMint-BA_2010-03-23-0.u33667	I thank you, Chairman. The replica refers to Mr Novaković's exposure, which states that any indications presented here in terms of taking over competence from the state in the conduct of foreign policy but in my presentation, I stressed that in the exclusive jurisdiction of the state and economic relations with abroad, business activities with abroad, imports, exports, investments, finances etc. And this raises the question of what is the role of the state ministry, which is set out in the order of this party which opens these representations, i.e. it does not open a party representativeship, mainly of which it could state its position. So there are really elements here to assume the competences of those who are not in the jurisdiction of these institutions.
ParlaMint-BA_2010-03-23-0.u33668	Dear Ambassador Remzija Kadrić. Here you go.
ParlaMint-BA_2010-03-23-0.u33669	I thank you, Chairman. Just one sentence. The information provided by the Ministry of Foreign Affairs concludes: 'The analysis of the opening and establishment of the RS delegations indicates that the concept of their formation, the absence of a specific business, especially the appointment of a racer by an indication of the RS president', etc. I, as part of this conclusion proposed by MP Husein Nanić, if he agrees to add another conclusion to this conclusion... to make it a whole, what would go towards the BiH presidency. So, in the view (2) of this conclusion, it could stand out like this: 'The House of Representatives is asking the BiH Presidency to provide information and a position on the open offices abroad so far.' So, in this first 105 conclusions, which requires Nanić 'to establish the procedure for opening a representative abroad', and then 'to provide the Presidency with information and a position on the so far-opened foreign representations', to be one whole and to have such a two-part conclusion heading towards the BiH presidency. If he would accept this to be such a new kind of conclusion, then he would... If not, then I would single it out and suggest it as a special conclusion.
ParlaMint-BA_2010-03-23-0.u33670	Yeah, and I'm sure we'll get an answer. Dear Ambassador Mirko Okolić, please.
ParlaMint-BA_2010-03-23-0.u33671	From this discussion on this agenda point, it can be concluded that we are about as I am about to set an example. Three nations, or three nations of three countries, are punished for some work, and are cooked in a pot in hot water, and the end of two pots or pots, as you will, stand two guards with spears, and return to him who wants to flee, or to come out of that pot, or to be told. The end of one has no one. And someone asks, not to say now who, what is this here, has no guards, and no one gets out. So he says they don't need a guard because they're pulling themselves down. Whoever starts to come out, they crash him, and they put him down at the bottom to make him warmer. That's what this looks like to us here in this Parliament and in BiH. Now we're asking some questions that really, or some people here are asking, and not me, I'm not asking, which really don't need to be asked. And now I'm going to prove it. He says he needs to look for information on the work of a representative. I would ask those who say we should look for data on the work that they are asking for information from that representation whether more can be done for this BiH through the representation. Could a Federation of BiH firm be found in this business, etc. That should be the point, etc. Furthermore, where is the damage on any basis by opening these representative offices? Well, I'd like, gentlemen, that you Federation people have in every city of every country, in fact, in every country in one city, a representation of what kind of representation this is. Because that would be a benefit to BiH. In that representation, it is certain that if someone from another entity turns up will not be rejected, and if rejected, then it is the reason that we here are discussing or doing damage to BiH. This is a purely political issue in all of what we, like today and these days and past days are doing, so let's relax a little bit now with these topics, let's try to put each other like this, let's say, the agenda point, which really doesn't need at all at this point in time. I'm interested in these points that are really useless, which will not contribute at all to the liberalisation of the visa regime, or anything else that leads us to Europe... are on the agenda, but here's what's here. So I don't see any damage at all. If there's any damage, give it an argument, and then we'll discuss where that damage is and what it's like. This shows that tomorrow, that is, we would be banned from even fraternizing cities. And it should go over something, and in the fraternization of cities usually stands to co-operate between these cities on all grounds, and economic, and cultural, and sports, and educational, etc. Now let's end it, we're probably something smarter than the white world, because I'm not going to say there's only in Europe but there's a whole world that cities around the world are fraternizing with cities from 106 other countries, which is practice and what we have today in BiH, it should probably be banned. Mr. Nanić said then what is the role of the ministry that is in the order of this party? What does that mean, I don't get it? So, the Ministry of the Order of this Party, it's his party. __________________ [[no microphone turned on]] Yeah, now that goes, yeah, I didn't hear that you were, maybe I was too busy here with notes. If you're that, that's good. That was strange to me, I was just asking for an explanation to explain, since you said now that you're retired, that would be, uh, yah, and I suggest in the end that we don't even deal with this anymore. Even for me, this is not controversial and that this information is not accepted or accepted at all, it will not help, nor will it help. She's like some weed that doesn't help or get away.
ParlaMint-BA_2010-03-23-0.u33673	Eh, you should have said that as a business intervention at the beginning, not after discussing everyone and your special. Dear Ambassador Željko Kuzmanović, replica. Here you go.
ParlaMint-BA_2010-03-23-0.u33674	Dear Chairman, I'll take a moment. I can't bear not to replicate my colleague, Nanić, who says that economic relations are exclusively in the jurisdiction of the state. So, this means that you should probably call for the constitutionality of the existence of the Ministry of Economic Relations with the government's abroad. He says that investments are in the jurisdiction of the state, which means that it should probably call for constitutionality to visit the RS Prime Minister Milorad Dodik recently to the Russian Federation where new investments have been agreed. I guess that's not constitutional either, so I suggest that Mr. Nanić and the others make a list that all things should go to constitutionality. I suppose the last one will be the constitutionality of the very existence of the RS. Thank you.
ParlaMint-BA_2010-03-23-0.u33675	Dear Ambassador Remzija Kadrić, he didn't mention you, did he? 107 [[Common discussion]] Go ahead if you are. You're not. Okay. Milica Marković. Here you go, Milica.
ParlaMint-BA_2010-03-23-0.u33677	I've called to say a few words about this information as a member of the Foreign Affairs Commission. And I must say at the beginning of this discussion that this point as a part of the agenda has come to this agenda of Mr Bećirović's initiative as a member of that commission, because he was at that session... seeking all information on all of these representations. So I, as a colegion, suggested to him to ask a parliamentary question and to get either from the Government of the Republic of Slovenia or the Ministry of Foreign Affairs, but not to bring us as a commission, and the entire Parliament is here now to deal with it. And by the way, talking about it Denis Bećirović or not talking about it, these representations will exist as economic and economic representations of the RS. And to correct those who today said there are five, it's not five, but 11:2 in Italy, two in the Russian Federation, and all that exists. And if they weren't this year's elections and we didn't have to campaign and spend time and energy on it, by the end of the year they would be 20th, so the RS government is seriously working on this and the effects of establishing these representations are seriously seen in RS. I believe that it is difficult for some to accept the fact that the benefits of the existence of these representations are not felt throughout BiH and those who stumble in RS that these representations represent BiH, do not be mistaken, it is neither the intention nor the intention to represent BiH nor the purpose. These representations represent the economic and economic potentials of the RS, and so it will be both future and all new, of course, that will be established. And if this information had been delivered, we, as members of the Foreign Affairs Commission, would have been much happier if at least this kind of information had come to us, but this information had not come about the diplomatic and consular network of BiH, for which the Foreign Ministry is directly responsible and competent to state the situation. And we, some MPs also know that the state of the commission is not well in the BiH diplomatic and consular network and that this economic mission that you say should be carried out by the diplomatic and consular representations of BiH, that they are doing so in the world, then the effects of such diplomatic and economic representation of BiH would be felt in this country. But unfortunately, they don't feel it. So of course, then Mr Dodik found it appropriate, if the official institutions don't do it, they will work on regional representations, what RS has the right to do and make more such representations. Despite Denis Bećirović’s mention of RS and Mr Dodik, I must say that he reminds me... but he probably didn’t see that film Balkan spy (a man who in everything and everything around him, and close to him still, he thinks that these are his enemies, in his paranoid degree, and then eventually he ends up being paranoid, and others... people who are neither guilty nor obliged to accuse and suspect – people end and continue normal life to live). I mean, so that you don't worry about how many there are so far, that you know that there are 11 of them, and if not these, if Bog does, next year we'll work to make them at least as many as there are now. 108
ParlaMint-BA_2010-03-23-0.u33678	Thank you. Replica, a respected representative of Azra Hadžiahmetović.
ParlaMint-BA_2010-03-23-0.u33679	First, the chairman, let me begin by thanking my colleague, Milica Marković, for this presentation of these representations and this information. I apologize, Madam Chairman, for mentioning, among other things, this information, because I have, for example, registered with attention on the back of this information 'that the representations of this kind are being opened as a rule if the two countries do not have diplomatic relations'. So if this information is good, then I guess those representations in the countries with which we have diplomatic relations are full. I'm saying this for one reason, the way we're discussing today is one topic that could really be a serious topic and a serious debate. But unfortunately, I have to say that here we don't have quite that serious material for a serious debate, no matter what we have one piece of information that can serve as a basis, but we can't talk about economic diplomacy here, if the information comes down to that in... In 2009, spend 2,646 million KM from the entity budget. It's not an economic effect, nor can we talk about the effects, is it, like, economic diplomacy. And for all those who see this information as complete or perhaps relevant for the assessments that have been made here, I will remind you that 2.6 million KM from the entity budget couldn't approve someone without a pre-adopted budget, no single person in any entity. So this budget was adopted in the assembly procedure, etc., in which there was probably an item of this kind. But there's something else. It's a story about something that's really top theme and they break here. I also have to correct my colleague Nanić, not 'The Ministry of Foreign Trade and Economic Relations with Foreign Affairs', but this ministry is called the Ministry of Foreign Trade and Economic Relations, not claiming that all economic relations with abroad are in the jurisdiction of the Ministry of Foreign Trade, and also not by pretending to entities that economic relations with abroad are their jurisdiction. If we're already fighting... no matter what this ministry is, but we know perfectly well what who's doing it. For example, in the jurisdiction of this ministry is also the Register of Foreign Investments, among other things. Therefore, there are certain competences in the investment issue, even if it was also the Register of Foreign Investments or the change in the structure of capital, etc. But I think the story is completely wrong.
ParlaMint-BA_2010-03-23-0.u33680	Time!
ParlaMint-BA_2010-03-23-0.u33681	We can, here I'll end up very soon, here in a way to move the balls there-here, talk about some detachment like there was a merger, etc. But the story of this case, a serious story in Parliament should be open on the trends of economic diplomacy in BiH. Is it in that 109 context? Don't tell me that this country's Parliament is not in charge of this, because economic diplomacy is part of diplomacy which is an integral part of foreign policy. And in that sense, I'm initiating that this kind of talk may be made with some information, and then initiatives towards BiH's competent institutions to maybe bring in appropriate documents, perform in a completely different atmosphere than it is at today's session, because this is unfortunately neither information to praise nor representations of such a kind of praise, etc., because here's a little bit and compare what the stories were about today, what it says here and what is real, we've lost a lot of time today, and for nothing. Thank you.
ParlaMint-BA_2010-03-23-0.u33682	Thank you. Replica, the esteemed representative Denis Bećirović.
ParlaMint-BA_2010-03-23-0.u33683	Although some have tried to distract the discussion from the main line of this topic, today no one has answered – including no one from the Council of Ministers, from the Ministry of Foreign Affairs – to a serious question, nor have those who have replicated answered one serious question. And that is, the Foreign Ministry and this country are developing the concept of economic diplomacy. They adopted a strategy for the development of economic diplomacy. Could these representations not have been able to fit into this strategy for the development of economic diplomacy, and should it not have been done in such a way, in accordance with the powers of the BiH state? There's no answer to that question, and there's no answer here. And that question certainly remains open. Instead, we heard the old corny thesis type as individuals were now saying: the minister did not do his job, the minister did not read the materials, the minister was signing, he did not know what he was signing, etc. And that's what the people who also voted for the minister say. What kind of logic is that? It's a different question now. We've got some kind of information from the foreign ministry here. And here you can't just get out of this. There can only be two exits here. The first is to launch an initiative to replace the foreign minister, because he supplied the wrong information, or the second, to take seriously what was delivered in this brief information from the Ministry of Foreign Affairs. I personally think that in this case when it comes to this subject this should be taken seriously. I'm afraid someone's gonna have a headache in a year, two, three or four for this. I'm also afraid that someone will read a stenogram from this session and watch how we reacted to these things. Nothing surprises me anymore. Now I speak for myself. Here we talked about five, colleague Marković, thank you, she added, not five, but 11 representations. I won't be surprised if it's 15 in a few months, and I won't be surprised if, for example, for eight months, the RS government tries to appoint a coordinator within those representative offices, and I won't be surprised if he happens to be Aleksa Buha.
ParlaMint-BA_2010-03-23-0.u33684	Thank you. 110 Replica, distinguished representative Mirko Okolić.
ParlaMint-BA_2010-03-23-0.u33685	Thank you, Mr. Chairman. The reply was to the honourable MP, Mrs Azra, who said that she spent a certain amount of funds on equipment or constitution, or whatever she wanted, of these representative offices in the world. I'd only ask her to leave it to us, that's what we'll solve inside the RS and don't take it from us, it's pre-election material, we won't be able to, you know, yah.
ParlaMint-BA_2010-03-23-0.u33686	Replica, a respected representative of Azra Hadžiahmetović.
ParlaMint-BA_2010-03-23-0.u33687	Well, you see, it's not exactly our concern what happens to the entity budgets, because I'll just remind you, we're also negotiating a stand-by arrangement with the IMF that coordinates and budgets in the entity. But my story was going in a completely different direction. Many have raised their hands for such a budget as the item, and it must have been this item, because 2.5 million couldn't have been that way out of someone's pocket. However, I forgot at the very beginning... I apologize for the reaction when I thanked my colleague Milica, when everything is so wonderful and wonderful, I would like to suggest that we get a little more information about the economic effects, because maybe it's a successful model by which, in the future, when we think about the representations of some, building or decomposing our economic diplomacy, we might be able to conceive some things. Thank you.
ParlaMint-BA_2010-03-23-0.u33688	Replica, distinguished representative Šefik Džaferović.
ParlaMint-BA_2010-03-23-0.u33689	Mr. Chairman, colleagues and colleagues, I didn't think I was answering my word. However, after a complete discussion, in particular the discussion of Milica Marković, then I decided to say, I decided to stand up and say a few sentences here's how long this replica may be, and perhaps shorter. So, colleagues Marković and respected colleagues and colleagues, it is quite clear that this is an attempt to develop a parallel system of diplomacy. We're not fools, we see what's going on. All this is said clearly indicates that it is possible to do so through BiH institutions. It is possible that the RS and all those who want to do so through BiH institutions can be properly presented and presented in both economic terms and in any other sense. So you don't need to stick your head in the sand. It should be openly said here that this thing is recognised as an attempt to develop parallel diplomacy in BiH and that it may be preparing the ground for something someone might have in their projection, and these days we are talking about it. But trust me, it's a useless job. It's Sisif's job. That's not gonna happen. And I think that as soon as we understand in BiH that we should turn to BiH as it is projected in Dayton, as we have BiH today, until we decide otherwise to be, that it will be the best in BiH. We should turn to work together, among other things, and on this subject that we are discussing today, as well as on all other topics. I needed to get up and say this because otherwise it would have stayed that way, that's among other things, the good part and the joke. This is just a waste of money, because I've had a chance to talk and I know for sure what the world's relationship is. Those who try to break or create or establish a parallel diplomatic network in this way, let them know that they themselves come out strangely in the eyes of those people whose houses do it and in whose backyards they do it. The modern world is like this, let's accept BiH as our country and let's all develop it.
ParlaMint-BA_2010-03-23-0.u33690	Thank you. The next is Remzija Kadrić, a respected representative. Replica.
ParlaMint-BA_2010-03-23-0.u33691	So, this is just to help MP Okolić, when it comes to this information about spending and this to bring the matter to an end. So, as it says in this information, only this year does RS plan to spend 2,646 million marks from the entity budget, so we will inform citizens of the RS that the RS government plans to spend 2,646 million marks for foreign representations, unemployed, pensioners, fighters, returnees, among other things, in the budget of the RS.
ParlaMint-BA_2010-03-23-0.u33692	Replica, the esteemed representative, Milica Marković.
ParlaMint-BA_2010-03-23-0.u33693	I must say first that I am pleased with this statement by my colleague, Remzija Kadrić, who I see has serious fears that the RS will survive economically, but that is also normal to say because you are also an MP from the RS. That's one thing. And secondly, Mr. Džaferović, there was a joke on my part, and I'm going to say,... a little bit on this agenda point, because indeed someone's paranoid statements here and the RS observation can't do anything else to get 112 produced in man but to smile at it and try to relax the situation a little bit in the overall fear that in certain statements is so much that I am simply as an MP who comes from RS and comes to me in a moment to ask myself: are people really so powerful, strongly and strongly looking at RS? We consider it only one entity within BiH and I cannot believe that so many individual MPs and individual parties in Parliament see it so much that the RS is, in some ways, looking forward to me, but I must honestly tell you that it is not as much power and strength as you are looking at it now, or living in this paranoid world of RS. And on the other hand, when it comes to the relationship between RS – BiH, I must tell you that the procedures, Mr Džaferović, of individual parties, and your parliamentary club have been acting like this lately, especially for the last year, that the more we try to say, the more Srbin in BiH try to stay and say 'BiH is both our country and let us live in that country,' let us live in a relaxed and normal state,' you do these things, in such statements, simply pushing one people away from you and pushing it from this country. You don't have the right to do that, because BiH is our country, and we were born here and educated and here live our families. And don't make such paranoid appearances and those kind of imaginary, irrational ideas about the RS to create an atmosphere and ambience that... BiH is not threatened by two peoples, and one nation is completely threatened, and here in your statements you say that there is something to be done, we need to find out who the enemy is, who the wrong side is. I mean, don't make a mess and make it harder than she really is. And it's heavy and burdensome to the social and economic issues in this country, which we all know very well.
ParlaMint-BA_2010-03-23-0.u33694	The next replica is Honorable representative Mirko Okolić.
ParlaMint-BA_2010-03-23-0.u33695	Replica to Mr. Kadrić. It's not the third, but don't worry. A man will be flattered. Don't worry about Mrs. Arza. So, under quotes, Mr. Remzija Kadrić, an esteemed colleague, has the right to talk about what he was talking about, because he is a citizen of the RS, interested in the situation in the RS, advocates the interest of the RS, because he came from there and wants to prove that I was wrong today when I said that MPs from the RS from the Bosniak people mostly vote as the MPs of the RS entity. So today, the man has given up on the replicas two or three times, since it was difficult for him to deny himself what to do, whether to bow down to the entity MPs and work against his entity, or simply give up the discussion. I understand him and he has the full and legitimate and legal right to discuss the spending of RS funds, in relation to others who,
ParlaMint-BA_2010-03-23-0.u33696	No microphone turned on
ParlaMint-BA_2010-03-23-0.u33697	No, not under quotes... born, is it, well. 113
ParlaMint-BA_2010-03-23-0.u33698	Thank you. The next replica is distinguished representative Šefik Džaferović.
ParlaMint-BA_2010-03-23-0.u33699	Koleginica Marković, BiH is a multiethnic state of three constituent nations, Bošnjak, Srbin, Hrvat, others and citizens of this country, and will always be so on every inch of it. So, also in RS, regardless of its name, both in the Federation of BiH, and in the Brcko District, and in every municipality. Niko one can have ethnic exclusivity in any part of BiH. She's in common and all of us in this country. And I got up - so that's who BiH is. But it also requires responsibility for all of us against BiH. And I got up to tell you that it's perfectly clear that no one here is crazy, that it's recognised what it means to be a representative who appoints the President of the Republic of Slovenia by his apparition, where monoethnic structures are represented and all of this is written in this report. We see it, we know it. It's not unknown... I say, you intend to do that job. I mean, it's a dead end, it's nothing. You're wasting your money.
ParlaMint-BA_2010-03-23-0.u33700	The next line has a distinguished representative, Azra Alajbegović.
ParlaMint-BA_2010-03-23-0.u33701	Dear Mr. Chairman, colleagues and colleagues, I just wanted to ask my colleague Marković to continue in terminology if he could, when speaking to his colleagues and colleagues at the House of Representatives, replace this term with the term paranoid. That would be much more appropriate, so I wouldn't be giving a lecture here right now as some MPs often have a habit of saying about me, I'm ready to explain the difference later. Thank you.
ParlaMint-BA_2010-03-23-0.u33702	Next replica, distinguished representative Slavko Jovičić.
ParlaMint-BA_2010-03-23-0.u33703	I don't have a term for these psychological, scientific, or scientific, or scientific, or the language of the people before, people, so would those countries where the open representations allowed the RS to open, say, the embassy in Bono or at Studgard. And today you've already made embassies about these representations. It's already those embassies, I don't know if they're betraying passports, maybe they don't have biometrics,...that's where the technique hasn't arrived yet. So don't really complicate where you don't need to. If that's not proof that Brussels would never allow an embassy to open up to some RS when it's impossible, people. I don't want to convince you of that. And 114 of us are masters to complicate a situation that is not necessary at all. And when you talk about economic diplomacy, well, I'm just going to look for a stenogram in 2008, when I asked here and publicly said that the first BiH ambassador regardless of what nation he is in -- when he brings a foreign investor here to honor him with the largest medal this country has. So if there isn't, to borrow from America, they're our friends. That's exactly what I said back then. And now you've dropped economic diplomacy in 2010, when this term is over, and we really need economic diplomacy now, and we're going to say, through this diplomacy we're fighting, and you people see what you're going to do again. So why are you afraid of something that doesn't exist? Said this one, said that one. Be careful, you statements by Mr. Denis Bećirović, he means this; Mr. Bećirović, where luck is that Jelena Buha, professor and doctor, the biggest marketing expert, is not included in the microphone ...I'm not going to BiH now, I'm going to rule out, for the economic marketing of Jelena Buha, your colleague,... actually international marketing, now imagine it's his wife, his wife, so I guess she'll go with him to that embassy there, he won't leave her and divorce her, if that's the embassy you think. And I wish that woman were involved so that all those imputes for this economic diplomacy or business representations, as Mr. Honorable said, would not surprise him to have been led by the Buha. Where only he fell, though we were bitten today by all the fleas here and in fear of someone, so everyone scratches for no reason. If that was the association, I accept. But don't be afraid, people, so just now Mrs Marković said, we admit, a hundred times did she tell you whether we are Srbin representatives here in Parliament that this is a unique country. If that's not a confession, then name me who you want to be today. And whatever you want to call me. But while I'm sitting here, and I'm sitting in the next term, and then it's your biggest.
ParlaMint-BA_2010-03-23-0.u33705	Time!
ParlaMint-BA_2010-03-23-0.u33706	A guarantee that this is a unique country. What are you more afraid of? What are you going to fear? Is he okay? Thank you very much. common discussion
ParlaMint-BA_2010-03-23-0.u33707	The next one's an honorary representative. Maybe one of you should come sit down here and continue to run the session. I see you're all inspired to spare some of us. Dear Representative Branko Dokić, replica. 115
ParlaMint-BA_2010-03-23-0.u33708	Thank you, Mr. Chairman. Since it's so salty, let me come too. Replica is a colleague of Džaferović's, so it wouldn't be like I did last time in general, and then he was called who wasn't called, and Džaferović because I don't think he has any more right to replication.
ParlaMint-BA_2010-03-23-0.u33709	He's having a discussion.
ParlaMint-BA_2010-03-23-0.u33710	There's no need. kolega. Đžaferović, there was no need to stress that these representations are not Serbian exclusivity, these are representatives of the RS government, and five Bošnjak and three Hrvat sit in the RS government, among other things, one RS Deputy Prime Minister is Bošnjak, and one is Hrvat. So much for that. I've heard more about the next serious consultation. In some normal parliamentary relations ahead of the elections, positions on this style of position should be satisfactorily rubbing their hands and looking forward to these elections happening. But given our circumstances, the opposition, together with me, let's keep all these demonstrated styles of position.
ParlaMint-BA_2010-03-23-0.u33711	Is it a debate? Dear Representative Azra Hadžiahmetović.
ParlaMint-BA_2010-03-23-0.u33712	Now, let me tell you right now, it's not a debate, because I had two replicas and I didn't debate, so that's why. kolega Dokić, it is very nice to hear that position of the opposition when you are at the SNSD MPs' Club, here's to repeat what I just told you. That's one thing. And second fellow Jovičić, Mrs Buha could not do this because she was not an expert in international marketing, she was a doctor in the field of the European Economic Community, she taught political economy etc., and she certainly couldn't work on BiH issues because she was a Serbian citizen and was born in Serbia, etc. That's it, thank you. And if you don't believe me, ask Mr. Košutić. 116
ParlaMint-BA_2010-03-23-0.u33713	No more reports. Does anyone from this ministry need to explain this? There isn't. Okay. I'm closing the debate. Moving to the 29th point of the agenda: Ad. 29. Proposed measures to improve business conditions in Bosnia and Herzegovina's agriculture and food industry ( BiH Council of Ministers Act No: 05-28-21/10 of 8. 1. 2010) Council of Ministers of BiH 8. 1. has submitted a proposal for a measure in accordance with the conclusion of the House of Representatives from the 61st session and the House of Peoples of the 37th session. The competent Commission for Foreign Trade and Customs delivered Opinion 22. 2. In 2010, with an adopted conclusion, it reads: 'The BiH Ministry of Foreign Trade and Economic Relations undertakes to provide the BiH Parliamentary Assembly twice a year with information on the balance sheet relations of needs and conditions involving external trade balances for products referred to in points 1 and 2. A proposal for measures to improve business conditions in Bosnia and Herzegovina's agriculture and food industry. The Commission proposes to the House to adopt the proposed measure with the conclusion." I'm opening a debate. Dear Ambassador Selim Bešlagić. Here you go.
ParlaMint-BA_2010-03-23-0.u33715	I must say, here I am for the first time pleased that we have received some measures from the area of agriculture and I am joining the conclusion of this committee. But if you look at this proposal for a measure, you'll see that almost 80% of the deadlines have already passed. So only five conclusions still have a deadline, which means 80% of these measures have already passed, so I would suggest only with the conclusion of this committee that there is a conclusion: 'The deadlines in the proposal for a measure should be brought into line with the time of adoption of the Commission's opinion'. Nothing more. ___________________ [[no microphone turned on]] Yeah, well, it's been over in the past year. 117
ParlaMint-BA_2010-03-23-0.u33717	I hope we finish this session tonight, take it easy. Husein Nanić, discussion. And don't think at all I'm getting dark, feel free to discuss as much time as you have. Here you go.
ParlaMint-BA_2010-03-23-0.u33718	I thank you, Chairman. I want to commend your way of holding a session. What I wanted to say about these agenda points and getting ready for this agenda point is this. We've got a proposal measure at 25 points on our request. Last year, we had a document titled 'The Agriculture Report for BiH 2008'. I don't see here whether anyone from this ministry is present here, and I would like to comment on those 25 measures as follows: that some of them would comment as well as those chapters that aren't covered and which are not covered enough by these measures. Number one. – these 25 measures, first of all, I think it can be concluded that they are not in line with the Law on Agriculture, Food and Rural Development in BiH. What do I mean? That Article 5 of that Law refers to policy measures to support the agricultural market, rural development policy measures and that these two measures are not in line with this law with these measures. The second thing I would have to do here is troublesome that a very important measure that is not included in the proposed set of 25 measures is to form a 'Correctification and Coordination System Payment'. So it is not envisaged at all, and this is one of the EU's conditions in the Stabilisation and Association Agreement document and other documents that we have. Because, due to the lack of synchronised agricultural policies of the RS and the Federation, there is a paying agency in the RS, while in the Federation there is no such one. I would like to point out that here there are really top experts and people on the ground working on these jobs, and that's why I think these measures, this supplement that I'm talking about, are very serious and based on quality data and expert opinions. Also, there are no measures proposed to improve the state of the food industry anywhere in 25 measures, although the document bears the term 'Improving the measures in agriculture and the food industry'. Therefore, as regards export guarantees, credit policies, capital investments, incentive measures to improve and organise cooperative production, market-wide policy measures, etc., there is no measure that speaks of industry. Furthermore, the proposal does not mention any non-tariff measures to protect domestic production. There is no customs measure to protect domestic production. Also, institutions that are planned to be involved in the implementation of these measures, 4, 5, 6, are "indebted to the Ministry and the Foreign Chamber of Commerce"... and it is not envisaged to include associations of farmers and research institutions, institutions and the like. I think it would be necessary for these institutions to be included in these measures. 118 Also, measures are not in line with entity measures, nor are adopted strategies for the development of the agricultural sector in the Federation and RS. This does not mean that the story of the transfer of jurisdiction is simply the need for certain things to be coordinated in order to implement these policies more effectively. I would also like to point out that at BiH level certain legislative and sublegal acts are adopted which are practically not implemented, which are necessary for the implementation of these measures, such as the decision on measures to protect domestic production and excessive imports, the Law on the Protection of Domestic Production under the CEFTA Agreement. Also, it is evident that these many deadlines, what Mr. Bešlagić said, have passed, the last deadline sometime in April of this month in these measures, and most, 90% of the measures are related to the deadline until March of the month, so that they should be brought into line with these measures. Also, you can't see here a key measure that I can see is missing, and that's a measure of forming a BiH-level agriculture ministry. I think that this is a key measure, i.e. a key strategic objective and a long-term goal that should be implemented here. What I can finally comment on about our commission's position is that they are delivered within certain deadlines of information and related to the 1st and 2nd measures, i.e. the 1st measure on the construction of the balance sheet, it is a truly devastating fact that this ministry, which is the processor of this, is one of the three ministries first formed in the BiH Council of Ministers, has no balance, that so far after 10 years of establishing this ministry, there is no balance on those mentioned here. I'm really setting it up as a big problem and I don't see why, because when you open the outside chamber website today you'll see these balances. When you open the BiH Central Bank website, we had this report from the Central Bank of BiH and payment traffic abroad, and when you see this particular data, you could also, the Central Bank, the Foreign Chamber of Commerce has these balances, they should probably be completed, but it is unacceptable that the competent ministry, that the Council of Ministers has no balance so far and because of this conclusion, I think it is little, it is necessary, but we can really conclude that this situation is not at all okay. What I'm trying to say from the field where I come from, means Uno-San canton, which is precisely this measure, and what is a lack of measures in the food industry. Do you know that 3,200 tons of cucumbers in the Unsko-San canton are collected, 5 million gallons of milk, 300 tons of strawberry fruit, 160 tons of mushrooms, 200 tons of forest fruit. It would provide for and that is all exports, we can almost say raw materials, it would provide some estimates of about 200 jobs to provide the means of processing in BiH. It means the lack of these measures that should be taken in the industry itself. I would suggest, given that this proposal has been decided by the ministry itself, or by the Council of Ministers, I would suggest that these measures be complemented by these conclusions delivered by our commission at five points. The first is the establishment of the agriculture and rural development ministry as a long-term measure. 119 The second item is the establishment of an office for the coordination and coordination of the payment system. Third point: propose measures to improve the situation in the food industry. Fourth point: propose non-tariff measures to protect domestic production. And fifth point: in those measures 4, 5, 6. etc. to include associations of farmers, scientific institutions and institutions. Thank you.
ParlaMint-BA_2010-03-23-0.u33719	Thank you. Dear Ambassador Momčilo Novaković, discussion. Here you go.
ParlaMint-BA_2010-03-23-0.u33720	I'll do it very briefly. I must say, I was surprised by two things. First, that my colleague Jovičić did not get up right at the beginning and praised the minister and secondly that I had not been able to find any sugar here. Namely, I've analyzed here all these products, so all the goods, and I have to say, I've been able to find honey, but I haven't. You see, now, let's get this serious, we have a proposal for an improvement measure that our commission was considering at the end of January of the month, so 20th and some January, right? By the time our commission considered this report, more than one third of the measures had expired, i.e. the deadlines for realization, more than one third of the measures had already expired. What was quite logical was that at its session, this commission had analysed whether or not they had been realised by the deadlines, and in this report, it informed Parliament that the measures whose deadlines had expired had not been realised, or were being implemented, etc. So it's the least you could expect from this commission, of course, with what this commission has written, which I don't argue that needs to be done. It was also expected that the commission would analyse those measures they are reaching, and most of them are reaching in March, in which they are in a phase of realization. And not to turn this debate into a criticism of this commission's work, because that's not my intention. My intention is something else, and that is to say that we have a document to return, in my opinion, to propose to update the deadlines, so that the measures have already expired, and to provide us with information on that day which of the proposed measures are at which stage. I have already made such a conclusion to deliver to all MPs, not going deeper into the essence of what certain groups of farmers have said when I gave them this material. So those with whom these measures were to be brought into line, those to whom these measures directly apply and, of course, those who, if nothing, know this issue better than one number. But I am not going to discuss it like that now because I am counting that if this conclusion is accepted, that the material is returned to the Proposer to update the material, that we will then have the opportunity to open the discussion of individual measures in a manner such as it or Mr Nanić or some other colleagues and that we will then be able to look at the effects of these measures, a realistic assessment of the effects 120 of these measures, I repeat, on the opinion of those to which they relate, therefore domestic producers, processors and above all agricultural producers. Thank you.
ParlaMint-BA_2010-03-23-0.u33721	Replica, Reverend Slavko Jovičić. Here you go.
ParlaMint-BA_2010-03-23-0.u33722	Thank you, Chairman. When this was on the Commission, we first commended what this was the first time in the assembly of this Parliament to ever get a document like this. Of course, the members of the Commission have had similar thoughts or identical, depending on what happened around these deadlines and everything, but this commission has, for these very reasons, requested that Parliament be reported every half year on the effects of these measures. Therefore, under the effects it was meant to know exactly about these balance sheets that someone was talking about, to know how many import quotas and all that this document treats. And of course it couldn't have been written in the Commission's conclusion and the proposal, but it was clear that our intensities were in the Commission that for the first time, I repeat, it was not this that I was praising the minister, I don't know who, but the first time we had it in front of me, and I was just asking myself, a document like this. So there wasn't any before. Now that he's here as he is, of course every act is subject to criticism, and I am to be criticised and to be complemented, but all in order to show effects for this country. And just for a little while, Mr. Novaković, so if anyone was against sugar, I've made their lives miserable, I don't know how, and I'm avoiding it in coffee, and I don't mind. And it's known how it's all done and for what. But what I have to say is, I'm your first friend and respected colleague, the man with the experience that follows everything, I didn't understand that it's an illusion in my name that I've sweetened it, but I have to for the sake of the public who listens to this, and I don't know where this factory is, and I don't know who the director is, I have to explain it, neither who called me, nor who gave me the stamp, nor did he try or dare to offer me. Now, since I'm on sugar, my colleagues are also getting cigarettes, it's a good combination, all harmful. Sugar white is harmful and we should bring in yellow ones. Cigarettes harmful, all harmful, and most imported. Well, when you make a decision without me and without this commission -- banned from importing cigarettes and sugar -- I raise my first hand immediately and come here two days in advance so that someone doesn't take over my chair to support what you're proposing. So the document, to return, we can do what you suggested, to return to see, but it is the first time that it has come here, only its adoption or adoption or acceptance of knowledge: I will challenge this proposal by the first Mr. Nanić to enter constitutional matter. The Ministry of Agriculture cannot be provided for in this act. Thank you very much. 121
ParlaMint-BA_2010-03-23-0.u33723	Thank you. There are no more registered MPs, but this ministry needs to explain the proposal for a measure. Mr. Nešković, Assistant Minister. Here you go.
ParlaMint-BA_2010-03-23-0.u33724	Dear Presidency, honourable MPs, I must tell you that this proposal for a measure to improve the conditions came into co-operation after nine meetings with the associations of farmers in BiH, a public debate held here in this House, in this room, a large meeting that we held in Ljubusko, so that these 25 measures are practically the result of this joint work. So everyone was involved. In the period when we handed over this material for consideration and the Council of Ministers, but also to the Parliamentary Assembly, I can tell you that by then we have done certain things, certain things. If you take the measures, if you have them in front of you, I can tell you that they are completely complete and done so far, measure number 1, number 2, 4, 8, and 21, and I will, in particular, apostrophe of measure 16, which is intended to create a team, means monitoring,... ie monitoring and evaluation, whose task is to practically monitor the implementation of these measures all the time. So point 16 is over. The measures taken in part are points 5, 6, 12, 13, 15 and 22. The most important thing that I've heard here is a few signs of balances, production consumer balances. They were done thoroughly on the basis of official statistics, but also modality that is important in the world and widely accepted, 'full modality'. Furthermore, what I can say is that we really have good co-operation with the UN-San Conton, with Mr. Smajo Toromanović, an excellent acquaintance of this issue. We know about the production you have in the Unsatan Canton. Here's to tell you from the balance sheet section, we've already achieved only satisfaction in the production of cucumbers. So we produce enough cucumbers in BiH, we don't have to import any. One of those results is the work of the Unsanican Canton. What I'd also like to say is that the Office for Harmonization of the Payment System has been established. The Council of Ministers made a decision last June. So that measure was established and should not have been put here as such because it was finished. Also, when we talk about how much entity plans are involved here, the strategic plan for harmonising the agricultural sector included absolutely everything that was done in entities. On this basis, the Operational Programme was adopted by 2011, which was adopted by the Council of Ministers and ordered the state level to act on the programme, i.e. by the activities as sorted. At the same time, two operational programmes were carried out, three for both entities and Brcko District and, unfortunately, none of them adopted their operational programmes, so that their activities would be harmonised and harmonised with the activities of the state level. 122 So I think with this I could give a few answers, i.e. ap-to-deit. Lately, in the last three months since these proposals went to the Council of Ministers somewhere in December and by the end of March that it was done... and that we have a team to monitor the implementation of these measures and report to us regularly, so every six months. Thank you.
ParlaMint-BA_2010-03-23-0.u33725	Thank you. We close the debate and move to the 30th item of the agenda: Ad. 30. Proposal for a Commission's conclusion on Transport and Communications of the Bosnia and Herzegovina Parliamentary Assembly's House of Representatives on Information on So far's activities on the digitisation of BiH's public broadcasting services We're 22. 2. submitted to the adoption of the conclusion, which reads: "The BiH Parliamentary Assembly's House of Representatives asks the BiH Council of Ministers to make available the resources of the accumulated surplus revenue above the expenditures of the BiH Communications Regulatory Agency for 2008 and 2009 fully focused on the implementation of the Digitalisation Project of the BiH transmission system." I'm opening a debate on this conclusion. Minister, did you have a need? Minister Rudo Vidović. Here you go. __________________ [[microphone is not enabled]]
ParlaMint-BA_2010-03-23-0.u33728	So now I'm reporting on behalf of the Commission, and in personal capacity. I hope I have the right to discuss it later if there's any need, and I don't think there's gonna be any need. The Communications and Transport Commission had two sessions on this issue and I can say that the discussions were complete. At the first session, there were five, six, and perhaps several ministerial advisers, assistants, referents. They were representatives of the RSVBiH Management Board, and we had another session with only the minister. I think that this session, I hope, has shed light on many issues that have been hanging in some way, the debate has been at some moments and bile, 123 but professionally very correct and I believe and useful. This led to a further addition to the minister's suggestion. So, the supplement would then be a continuation of this sentence, which the chairman has already read, 'that all the funds achieved above the expenditures of the BiH Communications Regulatory Agency for 2008 and 2009 are fully directed towards the implementation of the Public TV System of BiH Digitalisation Project, which is complemented by: therefore, the point 'and for three digital transmitters to be installed in the Sarajevo, Banja Luka and Mostar area' is deleted. This was the minister's suggestion after this joint meeting that yesterday was accepted by the Commission and I really support it because it has a basis. With the digitisation of the transmission system with these three transmitters, the BiH population will be covered by something between 1,200,000 and 1,400,000.00 inhabitants. This also has justifications from that point of view which can be incorporated into the second stage of the realization of the transmission system. I want to remind you that a project to digitise the BiH Public TV System's transmission system has been delivered to the Ministry of Communications and Transport, I think, somewhere in April. So for this we have this project, and if there are funds in the next 15 days, conditions can be created for the tendering of the first phase of the realization of this transmission system for which it will be according to the team estimates made by the experts of all three public broadcasters of BiH... just about as much money as it has remained neutral since 2008. That's according to our account, according to the information we received from the Council of Ministers, about 7,500,000.00 marks. The second phase can be entered with the 2009 funds, we still don't know what they are, but we expect them to be able to cover the second phase of the transmission system and probably a good part, if not all for these three transmitters. If everyone is responsible and takes this job seriously with these funds, I am optimistic that we can catch up with the delay we made in the previous period and enter here at the end of this year into a digitalisation phase that can promise to meet the deadline of the Digitalisation Strategy adopted by the Council of Ministers half last year. If not completely, what with the delay that can be tolerated and which, let me put it that way, is tolerant not only in Europe but also in this environment. My suggestion that we are not even having a big debate today, not because we are at the end of the day, but because in these materials you have three reports on this matter. You have the Ministry's report, you have the Management Board Report RTVBiH and you have the Information Expert Group to monitor the implementation of the Digitalisation Project. The expert group is the Council of Ministers and I am its coordinator and on behalf of this Parliament I am in this expert group where they are also taxed on the activities they have been doing. Not now that they are not realised, it is my recommendation that we go positive that here we now do everything possible to get to this realization as soon as possible, and I can promise Parliament that this committee will very soon – here in a month or a month and a half, the month is not some big period – come to Parliament with information on whether it has moved on, as far as it has arrived, whether there is a tender and so on. Of course, with this recommendation, we did not write, and it implies that the Ministry of Communications and Transport and the Council of Ministers find a way to provide or ensure that the funds intended for digitisation are precisely for digitisation, not by chance covering 124 of some of the dues and costs that public services have and I think the minister has already prepared a solution in this context. Here, it's on behalf of this committee, and if necessary, I'll take the right again.
ParlaMint-BA_2010-03-23-0.u33729	Thank you. Replica, the esteemed representative Martin Raguž.
ParlaMint-BA_2010-03-23-0.u33730	Wrong.
ParlaMint-BA_2010-03-23-0.u33731	Thank you. The next is distinguished representative Husein Nanić.
ParlaMint-BA_2010-03-23-0.u33732	I thank you, Chairman. I have already given, here I see that Mr Dokić is also in the same mood to supplement this conclusion that we had on this committee. It's a bit different in the termological name itself, but I believe we're on the same thing, that we think means besides these transmission systems, it means that thoughts are also on transmitters, that in the process of digitising the means this security is being provided. In that sense, I had a need to answer, so with the addition of this conclusion. And next thing you know, I'd like to ask the minister when he comes out for a pay phone to answer two questions. The first question is: Does the Ministry have an estimate of how much total funding is needed for the digitisation process? And second question: What legal entity will be the bearer of these activities? Is this, since we see what problems we have with this corporation, can this ministry do it, can BHRT do it, or how does it think it can solve it? Thank you.
ParlaMint-BA_2010-03-23-0.u33733	Here's a call, and no more MPs, said Minister Rudo Vidović.
ParlaMint-BA_2010-03-23-0.u33734	Thank you, Mr. President. Ladies and gentlemen of the Parliament, so here's the multi-hour work and this later, I'm going to appreciate the consideration of the chairman of this committee that we are not having too long discussions today, but you're going to let me say a few words and answer the questions asked. Since it is a process of importance for BiH in which the Ministry of Communications and Transport and 125 of the Council of Ministers plays a role, it is good that this debate is also taking place in Parliament, with a view to making us more effective than the times before us. So, here is the commission, I would say, effectively at its two sessions discussed this issue and the representatives of the ministry were involved in the debates and I am glad that... actually, from the last meeting we had, the Commission has set out for the addition and correction of this proposal to the conclusion, given that there are also needs, the honourable representative Dokić spoke about it, and I will just say a few words in that sense, so to supplement it. In fact, from the moment the Ministry of Communications and Transport of Entity Ministrys decided to regulate the broadcasting policy by counting on the laws, the Law on Public TV Service and the Law on the Public TV System of BiH, then it was planned to form a corporation that had the function of managing the transmission system, I think, that transmission network as well as the obligation to introduce new technologies, and the problems of non-envivalment of the Corporation would not speak today, it is well known. But from this point on, from the moment the transition strategy was defined to digital television, so to this day, we have led to a series of activities, and here we are at the end that the most important part, when there are accumulated resources for 2008 by decisions, so according to the Council of Ministers, we put into operation, so that they can be launched tendering procedures and, of course, realisation, I would say, initial means to start digitisation in BiH, digitalisation of television. But we still don't have a fully defined operator of the activity, and I have proposed in a decision by the Council of Ministers one model which, in my opinion, would, of course, be a Council of Ministers, so it's a mixed committee composed of the Ministry of Communications and Transport, the Ministry of Finance and public broadcasters who would be obliged to submit a report to the Council of Ministers in terms of monitoring together with the expert group... the realisation of accumulated funds which are taxed and known for 2008 at the moment, and for 2009, we don't yet have the amount, we can assume that this is the same thing close to about 7 million KM, why we believe that in the first phase of the benefits of digital television by realising in the first phase of larger cities over a million and a few inhabitants, of course, we can do the second phase that includes digitalization of transmission systems and transmitters. I agree with the thought that in the last stage there is a sense and need, and that is the obligation of the strategy: to provide sufficient incentives for regular ones to pay RTV fees in terms of buying top boxing sets and that this can therefore be in the next phases of the next decision. However, I said, therefore, the problem of the operator's activity in front of public tv services. Since she did not resuscitate the corporation in charge of the Law on the Public TV System, that part of the job should be done, perhaps, so I do not suggest a conclusion. Whether it is today or perhaps at the next session, it might make sense together with this commission to borrow until the Corporation revives that function but exclusively for the digitalisation process BHRT, given that the Public TV service is responsible for the national BH network and is actually the owner of the current analogue microwave system that covers most of the territory of BiH, and therefore, unlike entities which, above all, have the role of covering the RTRS and RTV Federation of BiH entities, so the scope of the Federation is to digitise a complete system in the BiH area. 126 How much money does it take? So this is now the answer to the question of Mr. Nanić's distinguished representative. We do not have a detailed financial plan yet, but estimates are therefore the people of the Ministry together with representatives of the DTT Forum who are actively working and from some talks with BHRT representatives to digitise the overall system, counting on the purchase of top boxing sets, at the final stage should be around 60 million KM, counting that part of the RAC-enhancing funds can be stimulating, and ultimately it will be necessary to ask for assistance from IPA funds or potentially favourable loans. And in that sense, it was also my intention that at meetings with representatives of public broadcasters, so at this point and with them in the talks, we find out how much public broadcasters are willing to digitise their production equipment with their means or possible other variants. So, I mean cameras, installations, masters, etc., and that should be digitized. And it is expected that we will also get a proposal from them for the DTT Forum, since together with the expert group and the DTT Forum they will have their representatives and then they will have the final amount. At this point, we can say it's about 60 million marks. And another question: Who will be the bearer of activity? So, at this point, it's exclusively a corporate obligation, so the Public TV service that isn't there, but here, perhaps in this time of transition, that is, a temporary solution is a mixed commission with a possible, I would say,... temporary duty, so BHRT. In this way, in the opinion of this ministry, the operator of the activity could be defined, until this is all done by law. Here, thank you very much.
ParlaMint-BA_2010-03-23-0.u33735	I thank the Honorable Minister Rudi Vidović. Replica, a respected representative of Azra Hadžiahmetović.
ParlaMint-BA_2010-03-23-0.u33736	Thank you, Chairman. I looked closely at the papers that were delivered to us here and that arrived during the session and I can't take away one impression which, although this represents a matter that is highly expert, but cannot be kidnapped once by the impression of a high degree of subjectivity in the work and the papers that are before us. Let me distract you. The chairman of the Commission, Mr Branko Dokić, is asking the Council of Ministers for information on the digitalisation activities so far. The resolution ministry delivers this information, the position of the Management Board is attached and the position of the expert group to monitor the implementation of the Digitalisation Project, which should be objective, independent, to which Dr Branko Dokić is co-ordinator. In addition to all this, Mr Nanić, on the proposal for conclusions which he delivered in the parliamentary procedure, uses the parliamentary option and provides us with a further addition of the proposal for conclusions in the parliamentary procedure. 127 So, I'm asking you nicely, let's find out from this exit. It's too much here, with all due respect to any of us here, there's too much coincidence here. Commission President, former Minister of Resorship, Coordinator of the Expert Group and MP Branko Dokić, I am asking you nicely to find out from this exit. Thank you.
ParlaMint-BA_2010-03-23-0.u33737	Many mentioned distinguished Branko Dokić.
ParlaMint-BA_2010-03-23-0.u33738	Well, I thought I'd check in through the replica first, so then I gave up because basically what I wanted to say earlier would not be a replica, so I answered for the discussion, but now it's just too much to do with this replica to my colleague Azra. First, the request for the report was originally sent by the Management Board of RTVBiH, among other things, to our commission, or to the Kolegijum and to the Kolegijum forwarded to our commission. We sent information to the Ministry, asked the Ministry to file a report that we discussed. With that report that we received from the Ministry, which you have in front of you, I would ask you to listen very carefully, very carefully, because I am really sick of all kinds of improvisations and bribery for those things that, under some other circumstances, I need someone to say thank you for. So, by doing that, we asked for information and, as you can see, we got both from the Ministry and we got one full piece of information about what the Management Board was doing because we asked them to. Since I am on this committee, and why I am president, ask the members of this committee whether it is logical or not and assess it, not only because I was a minister, especially when this issue is on the agenda. Here's this part of the agenda, to be so immodest, I know something from this and my profession, and not from yesterday that I know but from 39 years ago, as long as I've been in college and I've been taking these classes, among other things. Since it was also about the work of an expert team, it was then the first version of the members of this commission to request information from the expert team. I said on behalf of the expert team. I signed one of the information called and addressed the chairman of the Council of Ministers and delivered it to the minister, according to the expert team's agreement, and that information is called the Information on the implementation of the conclusions and decisions of the BiH Council of Ministers in the field of digitisation. I would ask the drivers of this issue now to refer specifically to this information. And I'm ready by tomorrow to respond to every point. If there are objections and objections to the expert team and its coordinator here, the least problem is to change a member of the expert team on behalf of Parliament. You will not wait to change me, I have openly said at a meeting with the Minister and with all the members of this committee, of which I have received a warm and unanimous support - unless, after this session of Parliament at which this point is discussed, 128 from the dead dot, I am coming out of the expert team and probably also resigning to membership in this commission. I don't know what you want. You have one situation where there is no one in terms of digitisation from neither the Federation of BiH nor the RS challenges jurisdiction or the need for joint action, and then comes to ask one of these questions from a respected colleague and president of a club that I have to admit has professionally offended me. Everyone has the right to their own vanity, let me have the right to my own vanity. My suggestion was from the beginning of the discussion that we are going towards what is positive to unblock the whole thing that could go faster, to say, that we are finally, it seems to me, at the same wavelength and this commission which, once again, is unanimous on this matter and the Ministry, or to be precise, a useful conversation was with the minister because the minister saw where things were going and I think we have reached a full consensus. Now suddenly a series of coincidences, some influences and some names appear. Indeed, I once reacted to some replicas in a joke, and I am saying, if she is of a respected person, she has indeed exceeded her gift. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-BA_2010-03-23-0.u33739	Replica, a respected representative of Azra Hadžiahmetović.
ParlaMint-BA_2010-03-23-0.u33740	First of all, Mr. Dokić, in no sentence, I have not disputed your knowledge in this area. I just said that we have papers in front of us that, in order to really go a step forward, don't put anything in the hands of this whole thing at risk. You say earlier that the Management Board initiated such an activity, i.e. information, by means of this commission, that the Commission would ask the Management Board to give us the opinion you delivered. So, a little contradictory explanations from you, too. Secondly, you are the president of this committee, you are the coordinator of the expert group, that this is wonderful and wonderful I do not understand at all, there is too much of a name here, even though Mr. Branko Dokić was respected. I will therefore propose that, regardless of the urgency of this whole procedure, all these documents that we have received and the proposals for conclusions and this proposal from Mr Dokić and the opinion of this committee, signed by Mr Dokić and the expert group of coordinators, Mr Dokić, should be delivered to the resolution ministry and that the next session will provide us with information which will be the basis of any conclusions. I'm saying this for the best. Any name that's here, there's too much coincidence here, that you couldn't attribute subjectivity. Thank you. 129
ParlaMint-BA_2010-03-23-0.u33741	Thank you. Replica, distinguished representative Selim Bešlagić.
ParlaMint-BA_2010-03-23-0.u33742	I have to apologize to Mrs Azra, but I am really surprised that something that is supported by all the members of this committee, which is supported by this ministry, is being put on because Branko Dokić is. He's a member of this committee, he's president of the Transport and Communications Commission. Now I can say we're going to cut one. Branko, let me be the bearer of this amendment that you have now given and to reduce. I would ask you, the digitization is about something that, I would say, is a necessary need and where we've been late for four years. And that's why don't you send it to the Ministry, because the Ministry and it's agreed to his presentations, let's see if we need to cut the number, but I can't take Branko off the seat of the president of this commission and the chairman of the expert commission. Here, I'll replace it in this sense, if you agree as an amendment, it's not Branko Dokić, we'll write up Selim Bešlagić to reduce the issue. Here's to taking part of the responsibility because it's about things where it seems like we've really achieved something called starting this question from a dead end that's already supposed to be solved in a big, I'd say, step. I don't mind looking at the next thing you know, when somebody's picking out, so maybe we'll get a better schedule, but here we go. I think this is really the thing that per section of expertise, per consensually achieved, and I would ask that here in that part I accept this part to be the proposing of the amendment Mr. Branko said. Or Nanić, it could be Nanić, because I think it applies to the same thing.
ParlaMint-BA_2010-03-23-0.u33743	So before I give the replicas to Husein Nanić and Mirko Okolić, we had a replica between the two members of Parliament, they said one thing. Second, I don't know, here we go. So we had a dialogue between two people, but here if you feel the need, Mr. Nanić and the Okolić, please. Here you go, Husein Nanić.
ParlaMint-BA_2010-03-23-0.u33744	I thank you, Chairman. I really want to show my surprise to this kind of discussion from Ms. Azra for the reason that we really, what Mr. Bešlagić said, have reached a maximum consensus on this committee after a long and more sessions and a long hours of work on this matter and, ultimately, the presence of the minister, the return, until we have secured the presence of the minister at the 130th session of this committee and have reached the maximum consensus of all members of this committee at this conclusion. And with this supplement, here's what I'm proposing to my colleague Dokić maybe to draw his own conclusion that he's going mine because he treats the same thing. I think we have time to open up a story about why it's late, why procedures are so slow from the Ministry, why it's standing in the Council of Ministers, then we'd go far and I don't think we have time for that. It may also be necessary to talk about it, but I don't think we have time to waste on this process anymore, that we should open up opportunities. And here all those who have been involved in these activities have reached maximum agreement on this, and I think we should give the next step in this process to make this thing over.
ParlaMint-BA_2010-03-23-0.u33745	Here you go, Mr. Okolić, replica.
ParlaMint-BA_2010-03-23-0.u33746	I'll be very brief, because now I'm in doubt, so the replica of Mrs. Azra is with one more question than the replica. I thought this was all right, I heard from fellow members of this committee who said that what Mr. Nanić said, I don't repeat, a lot of hard work, etc. I've heard signs from representatives of all clubs, etc. Now I'm surprised by what Mrs. Azra says is wrong because there's too much of a name and maybe there's something behind it, and maybe I'll be mistaken if I back this up. If he knows more about this, it would be correct and good to pass it on to us and we could take some different attitude. I don't know or see anything but what I've read here and what I've heard from the distinguished colleagues of this committee and the chairman of this committee, and I'd like to know something, too, so I might change my mind if necessary. Thank you.
ParlaMint-BA_2010-03-23-0.u33747	I said a little bit, here's a surprise, so one question, I said we had an exchange of views between the two MPs, but obviously you all want to participate. Here you go, Mr. Dokić.
ParlaMint-BA_2010-03-23-0.u33748	A fellow chairman, I give up my amendment and give it to my colleague Bešlagić. It is essentially the same thing that counterpart Nanić said, only more precisely that it refers to three transmitters, Mostar, Sarajevo and Banja Luka, because of a large population that covers and because the first phase of realisation of the digital transmission system is just covering the integration of these three places. Now, I apologize for knowing something from this. 131
ParlaMint-BA_2010-03-23-0.u33749	It's all right. You have time to agree on what kind of conclusion you're going to make. We're moving on. Martin Raguž.
ParlaMint-BA_2010-03-23-0.u33750	Oh, here's a minute, Mr. President. As far as I understand what's going on here right now between the important actors, so the Ministry, the Commission, the House, the people of the profession, is the fact that we're late in this digitalization process, if I understand correctly. And now we have suggestions from this committee on how to speed it up. And that we have the opinion of a competent minister as to how this ministry sees how this is possible. And I don't see that we need to return it, keep returning it somewhere, but I think that today we need to adopt conclusions, if we need to supplement them, and as far as I understand it, this implementation of these funds should not only apply to the transmission system but also to the transmitters. And secondly, let's see who's the bearer of these jobs? We have a problem objectively with this because of the lack of a corporation. I think these proposals that have been made in one mixed committee, commission, are quite reasonable and co-ordination both here and in the reports. And I don't think we're delaying today, but with these additions to this report, we're going to accept this report, and as someone within that process will determine, it's part of the responsibility of everyone subjective, whether as an expert, whether as a representative, whether as a chairman of a commission, whether as a minister. And if we don't get into this kind of debate, I don't think we can put up with any more decisions on this issue, we're suffering financially, we're suffering from the whole situation regarding public and tv services and systems, and I think today we can accept this supplement and the amendment along with this proposal from the minister -- who would be the project bearer, or responsible for co-ordination in this process.
ParlaMint-BA_2010-03-23-0.u33751	Anything you suggest by procedure as a conclusion, we'll make that clear. So, everyone, even thinking about putting it off, if there's a proposal for a dance, we'll make a statement. So everything will be treated by a vote, right? Here you go.
ParlaMint-BA_2010-03-23-0.u33752	You don't need to remind me of that, Mr. President.
ParlaMint-BA_2010-03-23-0.u33753	I'm sorry. 132
ParlaMint-BA_2010-03-23-0.u33754	I've been the chairman myself, and I'm also proposing the conclusions I'm looking for a vote on.
ParlaMint-BA_2010-03-23-0.u33755	Well, when you deliver the conclusions, we'll vote, of course. Let's move on. Are there any more reports on this agenda point? There isn't. I'm concluding a debate on this agenda point. We're going to the next point, so we're talking about point 31. Ad. 31. Consideration of the conclusion of the Joint Committee on Human Rights, the rights of the child, youth, immigration, refugees, asylum and ethics from the 18th session, held 5. 2. In 2009, which reads: "It is asked of the Parliamentary Assembly of Bosnia and Herzegovina to launch an initiative towards the Office of the High Representative to review all decisions of the High Representative who have been removed from a person or that the High Representative will make a decision to transfer that authority to the BiH Ombudsman Institution or another institution." Therefore, the Joint Commission adopted that conclusion. This is a question discussed at a session of the Joint College. As no consensus has been reached, it has been decided that the homes should individually declare a proposal from the Joint College of the two BiH Parliamentary Assembly homes to address the Kolegijum of the High Representative of BiH in order to give an opinion on this conclusion by the Joint Commission. After receiving a reply from the High Representative, homes will declare the Joint Commission's conclusion. At the 55th session of the House, held on 10 June 2009, Dom accepted a proposal from the Joint College of both homes. Seven. 8. In 2009, we received a response from OHR. The House of Peoples also adopted this conclusion at its 43rd session. I'm opening a debate on this conclusion. There are no reports. I'm closing the debate. We're moving to point 32. Ad. Thirty-two. I ask the Joint College of both homes to immediately explain why they forbade the holding of a ceremony on the BiH Parliamentary Forum's Independence Day in the Grand Hall of PSBiH, where a decision was taken to hold a referendum on sovereignty and independence in BiH. I especially stress that on that day these same MPs, your former colleagues, did not make that decision, we would not be sitting here, and most would not even be receiving fine sums of money for their work or not working 133.
ParlaMint-BA_2010-03-23-0.u33758	Mr. Chairman, thank you for your word. I have to read this point as it's called. __________________ Now it's read. No, I have to read it too. I have to read about the discussion. He says, "I am asking the Joint College of both homes to explain immediately why they have banned the holding of a BiH Independence Day session to the Parliamentary Forum in the Grand Hall of the Assembly in the place where a decision was taken to hold a referendum on sovereignty and independence of BiH."
ParlaMint-BA_2010-03-23-0.u33760	May I have your attention, please, to bring this to an end?
ParlaMint-BA_2010-03-23-0.u33761	I especially stress that 'that day those same MPs, your former colleagues, did not make that decision, we would now not sit here, and most would not receive fine sums of money for their work or work.'
ParlaMint-BA_2010-03-23-0.u33762	Mr. Okolić, this house has adopted such a proposal of the agenda.
ParlaMint-BA_2010-03-23-0.u33763	I'm not criticizing you. That's the Dom. But I'm proposing now.
ParlaMint-BA_2010-03-23-0.u33764	Would you like to read it again, please? 134
ParlaMint-BA_2010-03-23-0.u33765	You don't have to. I now propose that we do not discuss this now, not now, but the next time that it is proposed that we do not now have the basis to discuss but at another session. There is no need for us to talk about this at all, we can conclude that there is no need to discuss this today or at any time because Mr. Proposer of this point, Mr. Ajanović, is that right, you did not ask the College to give information to this Parliament but asked to be given information and to explain it immediately. I suggest that you sit somewhere, have coffee with Mr. Ajanović, if you will, explain to the man why and who banned it, etc. There's no need for what we're not looking for to be burdened, and you can't see in the agenda that we voted for and that we have to get that information. In short, I don't think we should discuss it today or tomorrow and of course we don't have any written material. There you go. Thank you.
ParlaMint-BA_2010-03-23-0.u33766	You've already taken it away, and you leave us with a way to work. We're doing business. Mr. Ajanović, I said we don't have any material, but here you go.
ParlaMint-BA_2010-03-23-0.u33767	I'll be very brief. First, let me tell this predecessor of mine. In this assembly hall voted for this point, therefore, that's what I did but you voted for it to be. Therefore, since the College did not allow itself to meet and give an answer, I will not discuss much about the results of the Colleges, but I propose one conclusion on this point: 'It is condemned to prevent the holding of a BiH Independence Day session to the Parliamentary Forum of the Republic of BiH in the Grand Hall of the Parliamentary Assembly of BiH.' So to be clear about this conclusion, we don't need any more.
ParlaMint-BA_2010-03-23-0.u33768	Replica, Mirko Okolić.
ParlaMint-BA_2010-03-23-0.u33769	Sure, I meant the discussion, but good. So, I'm not slowing down...
ParlaMint-BA_2010-03-23-0.u33770	Excuse me, did you want a discussion or a replica? 135
ParlaMint-BA_2010-03-23-0.u33771	Am I up for discussion? A discussion, if that's my turn.
ParlaMint-BA_2010-03-23-0.u33772	Here's what you want.
ParlaMint-BA_2010-03-23-0.u33773	I mean, it's not a replica directed towards Mr. Ajanović just in that sense, but I'm something else. So I'm not arguing that I supported the point because my exact point in the proposal with some small shades isn't accepted, and I wanted this point to be accepted, and that's not disputed. However, I have the right to discuss this and I suggest this conclusion - that today we draw a conclusion which I will now, in writing, make that this house does not lead to further discussion, but that you from the College if you find it appropriate, because that is what he asked. So I've already opened the debate and suggested it with this conclusion. Thank you.
ParlaMint-BA_2010-03-23-0.u33774	Both of you prepare your written conclusions, we'll get back to you. So we don't have any more logs. I'm closing the argument. Let's go to point 33. Ad. 33. Appointment of three members from the House of Representatives at the Joint Commission of both homes for the text of Bosnia and Herzegovina tobacco law The law on tobacco BiH was adopted in a different text in the Houses of the Parliamentary Assembly, so it is necessary to bring the same text into line. Today we appoint our three members. The proposal is: Velimir Jukić, Slavko Jovičić and Mehmed Suljkanović. Any other suggestions? There isn't. I'm closing the debate. 136 We move to point 34. Ad. 34. Request by the Commission of Investigation of the House of Representatives for the verification of the alleged distribution of CEMT licences for extension of the deadline for delivery of the report to 31. 3. 2010
ParlaMint-BA_2010-03-23-0.u33777	I suggest we give this committee as long as she wants, so until the end of the term of office, if some get into the next term to resume, and we add to the one after which it will come, because this is such an important thing that I really don't see that this commission can end it by 31. 3. I can't believe that we've already extended the deadlines of this committee several times, and that the institutions that are competent to deal with this matter seriously, with this issue, have processed this issue, the people responsible for this question, let's not say, have been detained and detained, etc., and now our commission, imagine, deals with this issue. In the meantime, he remembered the House of Peoples that they too were able to deal with the issue a little, or two colleagues from the same party are racing who will be the bearer of the activities in disclosing the crime of issuing CEMT licenses. I suggest here that this deadline is 31. 3. be unlimited.
ParlaMint-BA_2010-03-23-0.u33778	Please submit a proposal for a conclusion. Let's move on. Remzija Kadrić.
ParlaMint-BA_2010-03-23-0.u33779	It's just that about this, as part of what Novaković said, I should say. You see, in one of these reports, this request reads among other things: 'The first joint session of the Research Commission of the House of Peoples and the Research Commission of the House of Representatives was held 18. 2. when it is concluded that the commissions will work together and that when decisions are made by the investigating committees, they will declare separately.
ParlaMint-BA_2010-03-23-0.u33780	Okay. Ramsia, deliver a conclusion. Let's move on. Are there any reports? I'm closing this agenda item. 137 Let's go to point 35. Ad. 35. Giving consent to ratification: (a) Credit agreement between Bosnia and Herzegovina and the Kuwaitan Fund for Arab Economic Development – Kakanj Autoputa – Donja Gračanica, (b) Air Traffic Agreement between the Council of Ministers of BiH and the Government of the Arab Republic of Egypt, (c) Air Traffic Agreement between the Council of Ministers of BiH and the Government of the Syrian Arab Republic, (d) Agreement between the Council of Ministers of BiH and the Government of the Republic of Moldova on the mutual abolition of the visa regime for holders of diplomatic and official passports. You have received the opinion of the Foreign Affairs Commission. I'm opening a debate. There's no record of a hearing. I am also concluding this last 35th item of the agenda of this session. Now let's see when we vote. I'm taking a break for 15 minutes to get together if we get together. So we'll vote at 1 9:45. [[PAUZA]]
ParlaMint-BA_2010-03-23-0.u33782	Comrades and fellow MPs, please take your seats and try to concentrate on the vote. We have a lot of agendas, a lot of voting and a lot of conclusions. We are voting on point 1.The adoption of the minutes from the 72nd session of the House of Representatives. Please prepare to vote. You can vote now! "For" was 34, "against" and "abstained" was not. I understand we've adopted this record. Moving to point 4. Proposal for a Law on Mine Action in BiH, Proposer: Council of Ministers of BiH, Law No: 01, 02-02-8-54/09 of 3. Six. In 2009. We are voting on amendments to Lejla Klokić. The vote on amandman I.. ja would dare say II and III, if that's okay with you. Is there anyone against that kind of vote? There isn't. Please prepare for the vote on amandman I, II and III. 138 you can vote, now! "For" voted 28, "against" one, "sustained" four. I realize we've adopted all three amendments. We are now voting on the predlog law in the second reading, together with the amendments adopted. Please prepare to vote. You can vote now! "For" is 31, "against" was not, "abstained" three. I realize we've passed this law. Moving to point 5. Proposal for a law amending and supplementing the Law on Road Safety Security in BiH, Proposer: Council of Ministers of BiH, Law No 01,02-02-3-8/10 of 19. 1. 2010 (second reading). The law is in the second reading. Please prepare to vote. You can vote now! "For" is 32, "against" was not, "abstained" two. I realize we passed this law in a second reading. Point 6. Proposal for a Law on Working Time, Mandatory Breaks of Mobile Workers and Road Transport Recording Devices, Proposer: Council of Ministers of BiH, Act No: 01,02-02-3-2/10 of 8. 1. 2010 We're voting on the draft law in the second reading. Please prepare to vote. You can vote now! "For" is 32, "against" was not, "sustained" one. I realize we've passed this law. We're going to vote on point 7. Proposal for a Law amending the Law on Classification of Activities in Bosnia and Herzegovina, Proposer: Council of Ministers of BiH, Law No 01,02-02-7-121/09 of 23. 12. In 2009. We're voting on the draft law in the second reading. Please prepare to vote. You can vote now! "For" is 31, "against" was not, "sustained" two. I realize we've passed this law. Moving to point 8. Proposal for a Law on Amendments and Supplements to the Law on Customs Policy of Bosnia and Herzegovina, Proposer: Council of Ministers of BiH, Law No 01,02-02-2-1/10 of 6. 1. 2010 (second reading). We're voting on the draft law in the second reading. 139 Please prepare to vote. You can vote now! "For" is 22, "against" was not, "abstained" 12. Insufficient entity majority. Parliament will be later informed of the harmonisation in the College. Moving to point 9. Proposal for a law supplementing Bosnia and Herzegovina's Criminal Law, Proposer: MP Denis Bećirović, Law No: 01-02-5-100/09 of 30. Ten. 2009 (second reading). The law is in the second reading. We are voting on the amendments of Mr. Momčilo Novaković. Voting on amandman I.. Is there a need for me to read the Amendment? Thank you. Please prepare to vote. You can vote now! "For" is 11, "against" 20, "sustained" three. Insufficient support for amandman I.. We glasati on amandman II.. Please prepare to vote. You can vote now! "For" is 11, "against" 19, "sustained" three. This amendment was not supported either. We're voting on the draft law in the second reading. Please prepare to vote. You can vote now! "For" is 23, "against" nine, "remained" two. Insufficient support from RS. The college didn't agree. We're going to the second round of voting. Please prepare to vote. You can vote now! “For” is 23, “against” 10, “sustained” was not. I find this law has not been given the necessary majority. We move to a vote on the conclusion of MP Husein Nanić, who proposed on this item of the agenda "that the representative house of the BiH Parliamentary Assembly should be assigned to the Council of Ministers and sent to the parliamentary procedure the Law on Lustration of BiH". Please prepare to vote. You can vote. Business intervention.
ParlaMint-BA_2010-03-23-0.u33783	This conclusion has nothing to do with this law. And it's a practice we should... 140
ParlaMint-BA_2010-03-23-0.u33784	No microphone turned on
ParlaMint-BA_2010-03-23-0.u33785	Please, we've already moved to the position of voting, it was a criminal law. Criminal law can also discuss lustration.
ParlaMint-BA_2010-03-23-0.u33786	So we could talk about agricultural development amendments or the conclusion of atomic physics.
ParlaMint-BA_2010-03-23-0.u33787	Please prepare to vote. You can vote now! "For" is 27, "against" was not, "sustained" five. I realize we've adopted this conclusion. We're going to point 10. Proposal for a Law amending and supplementing the Law on Service in the Armed Forces of Bosnia and Herzegovina, Proposer: MP Sefer Halilović, Law No: 01-02-8-22/10 of 16. 2. In 2010, with the opinion of the Joint Commission for Defence and Security of BiH, we vote on the opinion of the Joint Commission. That's negative. Please keep that in mind. If we declare the opinion of this committee, the law falls; if we do not vote, the law returns to the commission stage again for a second opinion. Please prepare to vote. You can vote now! “For” is 16, “against” 18, “sustained” was not. I find that there is no general majority of this report and that it has not been accepted and that this law has been returned to the commission phase. We are now voting in Lozančić of the agreed conclusion of the BiH Council of Ministers to submit to the House of Representatives an amendment to the Law on Service in the Armed Forces of BiH and a proposal for other measures to permanently resolve the status of the current troops of the BiH Army, the HVO and the Armed Forces of BiH, which, due to years Lagumdžija Niko, cannot remain in the Armed Forces of BiH but from 1. 1. 2010'. Please prepare to vote. 141 You can vote now! "For" was 34, "against" and "abstained" was not. I find that we have adopted this consensual conclusion. And later we got the conclusion of the SDA MPs' club. Did you get those conclusions? Is there any need for me to read them? 'It is the BiH Defence Minister's duty that, under the existing Law on Service in the Armed Forces of BiH, all soldiers who started the service in the period '92. - '95. For years, extend the professional service in the Armed Forces of BiH to the 40th year of life. It is up to the Council of Ministers of BiH to draw up an Action Plan for the Care of Soldiers to which the Treaty on Professional Employment in the Armed Forces has expired and we propose that this action plan must provide for the provision of budgetary resources to be stimulated by new employers of these persons by paying taxes and contributions to the salary over a period of two years from the day of employment." __________________ [[no microphone turned on]] Well, it would be good for this conclusion to go to the Commission, if Dom agrees, and the Commission to consider that conclusion. Business intervention, honourable Ambassador Halid Genjac. Here you go.
ParlaMint-BA_2010-03-23-0.u33789	According to a member of the Rules of Procedure who regulates the situation when it is rejected, i.e. when the Commission's negative opinion is accepted (in this case the Commission's opinion is therefore rejected), the House sets out new guidelines and a deadline within which the Commission will give a new opinion. We suggest that for the new opinion of this committee these are guidelines, one of the guidelines, given the overall debate.
ParlaMint-BA_2010-03-23-0.u33790	Does Dom agree with that?
ParlaMint-BA_2010-03-23-0.u33791	It's a lie.
ParlaMint-BA_2010-03-23-0.u33792	Do you want to vote on it?
ParlaMint-BA_2010-03-23-0.u33793	Come on... 142
ParlaMint-BA_2010-03-23-0.u33794	Okay. So we're voting on a predlog for a conclusion from the SDA, which is directed to our commission to be a guideline for a new opinion. Please prepare to vote. You can vote now! "For" is 24, "against" two, "sustained" four. I find that we have adopted a proposal for a conclusion to be addressed to the Joint Commission for the sake of new guidelines. Moving to point 11. Proposal for a law on the protection of geographical indications, Proposer: Council of Ministers of BiH, Law No 01,02-02-3-18/10 of 3. 2. 2010 (first reading) Please prepare for the vote. We're voting on the bill in the first reading. You can vote now! "For" was 31, "against" and "abstained" was not. I realize we passed this law in our first reading. Point 12. Proposal for a Law on the Protection of Topography of Integrated Cars, Proposer: Council of Ministers of BiH, Law No 01,02-02-2-16/10 of 3. 2. 2010 (first reading). We're voting on the bill in the first reading. Please prepare to vote. You can vote now! "For" was 32, "against" and "abstained" was not. I realize we've passed this law. Moving to point 13. Proposal for a Law on Industrial Design, Proposer: Council of Ministers of BiH, Law No 01,02-02-2-15/10 of 3. 2. 2010 (first reading). We're voting on the bill in the first reading. Please prepare to vote. You can vote now! "For" was 33, "against" and "abstained" was not. I realize we passed this law in our first reading. Point 14. Proposal for a Mark Law, Proposer: Council of Ministers of BiH, Law No 01,02-02-5-14/10 of 3. 2. 2010 (first reading). We're voting on the bill in the first reading. 143 Please prepare to vote. You can vote now! "For" was 33, "against" and "abstained" was not. I realize we passed this law in our first reading. Point 15. Proposal for a patent law, Proposer: Council of Ministers of BiH, Law No 01,02-02-2-17/10 of 3. 2. 2010 (first reading). We're voting on the bill in the first reading. Please prepare to vote. You can vote now! "For" was 33, "against" and "abstained" was not. I realize we've passed this law. Moving to point 16. Proposal for a law amending and supplementing the Act on the Protection of Secret Information, Proposer: Council of Ministers of BiH, Law No 01,02-02-8-19/10 of 4. 2. 2010 (first reading). We're voting on the bill in the first reading. Please prepare to vote. You can vote now! "For" is 31, "against" was not, "sustained" one. I realize we've passed this law, too. Point 17. Proposal for a Law on the Promotion of Small and Medium Enterprises and Entrepreneurship in BiH, Proposer: Council of Ministers of BiH, Law No 01,02-02-4-12/10 of 28. 1. 2010 (first reading). We're voting on the bill in the first reading. Please prepare to vote. You can vote now! "For" was 33, "against" and "abstained" was not. I realize we passed this law in our first reading. We vote on the conclusion of Parliament Nermine Zaimović-Zaimović-Uzunović, which reads: "It is necessary to organise a public debate on the proposed text of the law." Please prepare to vote. You can vote now!
ParlaMint-BA_2010-03-23-0.u33795	Chairman, how about a business intervention?
ParlaMint-BA_2010-03-23-0.u33796	Business intervention, please. 144
ParlaMint-BA_2010-03-23-0.u33797	As far as I know, and we discussed this when we had the Traffic Safety Act, it is said that Parliament is not deciding whether to organise a public debate, but rather a resolution committee decides.
ParlaMint-BA_2010-03-23-0.u33798	Parliament also has the right to draw conclusions to the Joint Commission, which, on the basis of these conclusions and in accordance with the Rules of Procedure, can organise a debate. We've done this a few times before. I hope you're not looking for a repeat vote of "For" is 23, "against" seven, "remained" three. I realize we've adopted this conclusion. Point 18. Proposal for a law on amendments and additions to Bosnia and Herzegovina's Election Law, proposing: MPs Milorad Živković, Niko Lozančić and Šefik Džaferović, Law No: 01-02-9-20/10 of 10. 2. 2010 (first reading). We're voting on the bill in the first reading. Please prepare to vote. You can vote now! "For" is 25, "against" one, "sustained" six. I find this law was supported in the first reading. We are voting on the conclusion of the Commission on gender equality. This is the conclusion that Mr Zorić explained, and since this is the conclusion concerning the whole committee, that the conclusion strictly states that this is an exception, not a rule, we decided in the College to put this conclusion to the vote, which does not mean that we are ready and we accept it, but we will put it to the vote. Please prepare to vote. You can vote now! “For” is eight, “against” 22, “sustained” two. I find that this conclusion has not been supported. We move on to the proposal for a law on the holidays of Bosnia and Herzegovina, Proposer: MP Denis Bećirović, Law No: 01-02-9-13/10 of 2. 2. 2010 (first reading). We're voting on the bill in the first reading. Please prepare to vote. You can vote now! "For" is 20, "against" three, "sustained" 10. Insufficient entity majority. We have no consent in the College. 145 Let's go to the second round of voting. Please prepare to vote. You can vote now! "For" is 20, "against" three, "sustained" 10. I find that without enough... two-thirds of the "against" this law has received support. We have this conclusion from Ambassador Mirko Okolić. I suggest you leave this conclusion when we declare the amendments to the law in the second reading. If you don't pass the conclusion then it makes sense to form an inter-resor working group, so keep this conclusion to the discussion in the second reading. __________________ [[no microphone turned on]] Okay. And Dokić. Of course, you agree with that proposal. Thank you. Moving to point 20. Proposal for a Law amending the Law on Public Procurement of BiH, Proposer: Constitutional Commission, Law No: 01-02-4-21/10 of 16. 2. 2010 (first reading). We're voting on the bill in the first reading. Please prepare to vote. You can vote now! "For" is 31, "against" was not, "sustained" one. I realize we passed this law in our first reading. We vote on Amendments II, III and IV to the Constitution of BiH, proposing: Members of the Party for BiH, Amendment No: 01-01-10/10 of 15. 2. In 2010, with the opinion of the Constitutional Legal Commission, Glasmo. Do you have a proposal to vote on all opinions at once, or are we going to vote on one thing at a time?
ParlaMint-BA_2010-03-23-0.u33800	Separately.
ParlaMint-BA_2010-03-23-0.u33801	Separately. So we're voting on the Commission's opinion on amandman II.. Please prepare to vote. You can vote now! 146 "For" is 16, "against" seven, "abstained" nine. Insufficient support from the Federation entity. We'll get along later. We vote on the Commission's opinion on amandman III.. Please prepare to vote. You can vote now! "For" is 17, "against" seven, "sustained" nine. Insufficient support from the Federation of BiH. Parliament will then be informed of the alignment. We move to a vote on the Commission's opinion on amandman iv.e. Please prepare to vote. You can vote now! "For" is 16, "against" 15, "sustained" one. Insufficient support from the Federation of BiH. Parliament will be informed of the agreement later. Point 22. The Commission's report to the College on the effort to reach agreement on the draft law on the prevention of riots in sports competitions, MP Bakir Izetbegović, Law No 01-02-7-710 of 19. 1. In 2010 (first reading) it is negative, i.e. it is not agreed in the College. And we vote in the second round on the bill in the first reading. Please prepare to vote. You can vote now! "For" is 22, "against" 11, there was no "restraint". Two-thirds of "against" from RS. I find that we did not support this law in our first reading. We're voting on 23. Proposal for a revised strategy for Bosnia and Herzegovina to implement Annex VII of the Dayton Peace Agreement (Act of the Ministry of Human Rights and Refugees, issue 01-37-31010 of 15). 2. 2010) The proposal that the Kolegijum is ready to propose to Parliament is that we vote on the predlog for a revised strategy and that, after supporting this strategy in the first reading, all the conclusions that have been made here are made to our committee to consider the conclusions and to make clear on these conclusions and on the predlog for a revised strategy in the second reading when Parliament comes. If you are willing to vote that way, then we are voting on this strategy in the first reading and the conclusions are to the committee responsible.
ParlaMint-BA_2010-03-23-0.u33802	No microphone 147 is included
ParlaMint-BA_2010-03-23-0.u33803	Yeah. That's what we've been thinking on this committee and Mrs Alma Čolo, and we've all been thinking about it that way. I think that's a good idea. __________________ [[no microphone turned on]] Exactly. Please prepare to vote. You can vote now! "For" was 33, "against" and "abstained" was not. I find that we adopted the revised strategy and, together with the conclusions, referred it to the committee responsible. Please prepare to vote on item 24. Report on the work of the Citizens' Appeals Committee on the work of police officers in BiH police bodies for the period September - December 2009 (substance of the Committee on Citizens' Appeals, issue: 03-50-1-60-6-2/10 of 27. 1. 2010). We are voting on the adoption of the Report on the work of the Board of Appeal. You can vote now! "For" is 29, "against" was not, "abstained" four. I find that we have adopted the report on the work of the Committee on Appeals of Citizens. 25. Information from the Council of Ministers of BiH on the lack of freedom, Prof. Dr. Ejup Ganić in Great Britain, based on Serbia's request to hand over Glasmo on receiving information on the mandate of the Council of Ministers to provide complete information. Please prepare to vote. You can vote now! "For" is 27, "against" was not, "sustained" five. I find that we have adopted and received knowledge and adopted the Information – the task of the Council of Ministers to deliver complete information. We also vote for point 26. Information from the Council of Ministers of BiH on a letter from the Ministry of Security to the United Nations on the declaration of certain organisations from BiH related to terrorist organisations and repealing a document that causes legal uncertainty for citizens and institutions of BiH 148 Please prepare for the vote. You can vote now! "For" is 28, "against" was not, "abstained" four. I understand that we have received information about the Minister's Council's duties. Point 27. Information on sanctioning executioners of verbal and physical objections against journalists in Bosnia and Herzegovina and a proposal for measures (the BiH Ministry of Security material, act No: 01-6-50-632-1/10 of 2. 2. 2010) We vote on receiving information with the Commission's Opinion and Conclusion, which reads: 'The House of Representatives asks the BiH Ministry of Security to make a concrete and precise proposal for measures, given that the proposal for measures is not precise at all.' Please prepare to vote. You can vote now! "For" is 31, "against" was not, "sustained" two. I find that we have received information, with the Commission's Opinion and Conclusion. Point 28. Information from the BiH Ministry of Foreign Affairs regarding the opening of the Republika Srpska abroad (a proposal for inclusion in the agenda: the Foreign Affairs Commission), act No: 01/2a-50-1-2-59/10 of 3. 2nd and 19th. 2. 2010 We're voting on receiving information.
ParlaMint-BA_2010-03-23-0.u33805	We have conclusions.
ParlaMint-BA_2010-03-23-0.u33806	Well, first we vote on it, and then we vote on two conclusions. I've got it all lined up. Please prepare to vote. You can vote now! "For" is 27, "against" four, "sustained" two. I understand we've received information. We are voting on the predlog for the conclusion of MP Husein Nanić, which reads: 'The House of Representatives of the BiH Parliamentary Assembly calls on the BiH Presidency to, in accordance with constitutional competence on foreign policy and foreign trade policy, Article III. point 1. The BiH Constitution establishes procedures for opening BiH's foreign representations that do not have the character of diplomatic and consular representations." Please prepare to vote. You can vote now! "For" is 10, "against" 11, "remained" 12. I find there is no general support for this conclusion. 149 We vote on the predlog for the conclusion of Parliament of Denis Bećirović, which reads: '1. The BiH Parliamentary Assembly's House of Representatives estimates that all entity and canton representations must comply with the BiH Constitution and the constitutional competences of the BiH Presidency; 2. The BiH Parliamentary Assembly's House of Representatives is looking for an indication of the Council of Ministers of BiH and the BiH Presidency's compliance with the strategy for the development of economic diplomacy adopted at the state level." Please prepare to vote. You can vote now! "For" is 22, "against" nine, "remained" two. Insufficient entity majority. We have no consent in the College. We're going to the second round of voting. Please prepare to vote. You can vote now! "For" is 22, "against" 10, "sustained one. Two-thirds of RS are "against". This conclusion was not supported. Moving to point 29. Proposal for measures to improve the conditions of business in Bosnia and Herzegovina's agriculture and food industry (resumer: Council of Ministers of BiH, Act No: 05-28-21/10 of 8. 1. 2010) We vote first on the proposal for the conclusion of Member Momčilo Novaković, which reads: 'The document is returned to the competent ministry in order to comply with the deadlines, and to provide information on the measures implemented'. Please prepare to vote. You can vote now! "For" is five, "against" 24, "remained" two. I find that this conclusion has not been adopted. We vote on the adoption of the proposal for measures with the Commission's Opinion and the Conclusion contained in it, which reads as follows: 'The BiH Ministry of Foreign Trade and Economic Relations undertakes twice a year to provide the BiH Parliamentary Assembly with information on the balance sheet relations of needs and conditions, which include external trade balances for products referred to in points 1 and 2 of the proposal for measures to improve the conditions of business in agriculture and the BiH food industry.' Please prepare to vote. You can vote now! “For” 28, “against” was not, “sustained” two. 150 We are now voting on the predlog for the conclusion of MP selo Bešlagić, which reads: 'With the conclusion of the Commission on Foreign Trade and Customs, the deadlines set out in the proposal for a measure should be aligned with the time of adoption of the Commission's opinion'. Please prepare to vote. You can vote now! “For” is 17, “against” was not, “sustained” 16. Insufficient entity majority. The college has agreed on this conclusion so that we do not need to go to the second round of voting. We move on to the proposal for the conclusions of MP Husein Nanić, which reads: "The proposed measures to improve conditions in agricultural production and the food industry of BiH adopted at the 109th session of the Council of Ministers are complemented by the following measures: the formation of the Ministry of Agriculture and Rural Development." Do you need me to read it all the way? There's no need. Still not supposed to read? Okay. Please prepare to vote. You can vote now! "For" is 21, "against" 10, "sustained" was not. Insufficient entity third. We're going to the second round of voting. There's no consent in the College. Please prepare to vote. You can vote now! “For” is 23, “against” 10, “sustained” was not. I find that this conclusion has not been supported. Point 30. The proposal for the conclusion of the Transport and Communications Commission of the BiH Parliamentary Assembly's House of Representatives on Information on activities so far on the digitisation of public broadcasting services in BiH I do not know now who has taken this conclusion. Is Selim Bešlagić, Husein Nanić or...? Husein Nanić, good. We are voting on the predlog for a conclusion by Husein Nanić: 'At the words of the Public TV System of BiH, the point is deleted and the sentence continues to follow three digital transmitters from the Sarajevo, Banja Luka and Mostar areas.' /all the voices are talking. That's withdrawn. Is that taken back, too? 151 A Nanić: 'In the first conclusion of the Commission in the back row, add words and transmitters behind the word transmission system. The rest of the text remains the same." Is he all right? It is.
ParlaMint-BA_2010-03-23-0.u33809	Again.
ParlaMint-BA_2010-03-23-0.u33810	What?
ParlaMint-BA_2010-03-23-0.u33811	Again.
ParlaMint-BA_2010-03-23-0.u33812	Okay. At the request of the president of the Party for BiH, we repeat the vote. 152 Please prepare to vote. You can vote now! "For" is 18, ___________________ [[no microphone turned on]] Well, in the second round. We'll go to the second round anyway. We'll go to the second round anyway. Okay. "For" is 18, "against" 13, "sustained one. Insufficient support from the Federation of BiH. There's no consent in the College. We're going to the second round of voting. Please prepare to vote. You can vote now. "For" is 17, "against" 15, "sustained" one. I find that there were two-thirds of the Federation of BiH "against" and that this conclusion was adopted by our commission. We're moving to point 32. I ask the Joint College of both homes to immediately explain why they forbade the holding of a BiH Independence Day session to the Parliamentary Forum in the Great Hall of the PS BiH, where a decision was taken to hold a referendum on BiH's sovereignty and independence. I especially stress that on that day these same MPs, your former colleagues, did not make that decision, we would not be sitting here, and most would not even receive fine sums of money for their work or reluctantness, please prepare for the vote. You can vote now! "For" is 17, "against" 11, "remained" three. Insufficient entity majority. We don't have an agreement on this. We're going to the second round of voting. Please prepare for the second round of voting. You can vote now! "For" is 16, "against" 11, "remained" two. Two-thirds of RS are "against". This conclusion has not been adopted. We are voting on Parliamentarian Mirko Okolić's conclusion, which reads "that the BiH Parliamentary Assembly's House of Representatives is no longer discussing this point but that the Joint College of both homes, if necessary, explain the same to the promoter." 153 Please prepare to vote. You can vote now! ‘For’ is 12... [[Common discussion]]
