ParlaMint-BA_2010-11-30-0.u4665	Ladies and gentlemen, honored guests, esteemed MPs, media representatives, I am opening a constitutional session of the House of Representatives of the Bosnia and Herzegovina Parliament. The College of the House of Representatives decided to convene this session on the basis of Article 2(2) of the Rules of Procedure of the BiH House of Representatives, and on the basis of the positions (3) of the same Rules of Procedure... the interim chairman until the election of the new chairman of this House is the oldest elected MP in the new assembly. I accepted this with pleasure. It is an extraordinary honor for me, and this is the first time in the history of the BiH Parliament, from the Dayton Agreement to today, that a person like me is not only an MP in this House but, behold, I am developing circumstances and the first interim chairman. This once again says that we are ready for Europe because this way is highly appreciated and respected by the rights and the Convention on the Rights of Persons with Disabilities, which I sincerely thank to all those who have participated in this. As you know, according to the BiH Constitution and the BiH Election Law, this house consists of 42 elected MPs, of which from the territory of the Federation of BiH 28 MPs, and from the territory of RS 14 MPs. As interim chairman, I will take this opportunity to sincerely welcome all guests and thank them for coming, to congratulate all elected Members and to wish a successful, very successful work in the four-year term, as long as they are waiting for them, and, of course, a great welcome to our media representatives. In the follow-up of this session, great help, the real, professional one, who needs people like me, will be provided by our esteemed secretary of this assembly, our dear Branka Todorović, who has shown exceptional patience in working with me so that I can bring this session to its end and the election of the chairman of this house. I'm warm and honest with her, as a man, thank you. I will ask our Mrs. Todorović to read the names of all elected MPs, and to give some notes that will be useful to us in the further work of this session and, of course, until the end of this session. Mrs. Todorović, please continue.
ParlaMint-BA_2010-11-30-0.u4666	Mr. Chairman, thank you. 2 So, the House of Representatives of the BiH Parliamentary Assembly is selected: The Federation of BiH Social Democratic Party of BiH – Danijela Martinović, Denis Bećirović, Hamdija Lipovača, Mirsad Mešić, Mirza Kušljugić, Nermina Zaimović-Zaimović-Uzunović, Saša Magazinović and Zlatko Lagumdžija; The Party of Democratic Action – Amir Fazlić, Asim Sarajlić, Salko Sokolović, Senad Šepić, Nermin Džaferović, Šemsudin Mehmedović and Zijad Jagodić; the Alliance for the Better Future of BiH - SBB BiH Fahrudin Radončić – Adnan Bašić, Beriz Purić, Ismeta Dervoz and Mirsad Đugum; the Croatian Democratic Community of BiH – Dragan Čović, Mato Franjičević and Niko Lozančić; Party for BiH – Azra Mladen Lijanović – Ivanković and Bežić – Božo Ljubić, Jurišić. From the Republika Srpska Alliance of Independent Social Democrats – SNSD Milorad Dodik – Dušanka Majkić, Drago Kalabić, Slavko Jovičić, Milica Marković, Lazar Prodanović, Milorad Živković, Nikola Špirić and Boško Tomić; Serbian Democratic Party – Darko Babalj, Aleksandra Pandurević, Mladen Bosić and Borislav Bojić; Party of Democratic Progress – Vesna Krstović-Spremo-Premo; Democratic People's Union – Petar Kunić. Dear ladies and gentlemen of the Parliament, with a call for this session, you have received a copy of the Rules of Procedure of the House of Representatives, in order to prepare you for this session to meet the provisions of the Rules of Procedure concerning the establishment of this House. You also received instructions from the Central Election Commission that before this session you should receive assurances of your mandate and sign a declaration of acceptance or refusal of office. You've done your job. The materials in the parliamentary procedure will be sent to you by mail. You also received a publication in which the BiH Constitution and the Rules of Procedure of the BiH Parliamentary House of Representatives, with amendments and additions, the Bill of Parliamentary Assembly of BiH, as well as a Guide for MPs and delegates, were printed. 3 It is my duty to ask you, in the name of the Chairman, to fill out the letter and return it after that to our service. Now again, Mr. Adnan Bašić.
ParlaMint-BA_2010-11-30-0.u4667	Ladies and gentlemen, you've all got the agenda. I would ask Mrs. Todorović to read the agenda again, so that we know exactly what comes next. And the session will continue in the agreed agenda. Mrs. Todorović, will you please read exactly... these agenda points that we are obliged to spend at this session.
ParlaMint-BA_2010-11-30-0.u4668	Thank you. So in the invitation to this session, you also received a draft agenda, which is: 1. Making a solemn statement by the Members; 2. Selection of the chairperson, first vice-president and second vice-president of the House of Representatives; 3. A round of members of the Commission to prepare the election of the BiH Council of Ministers. Since such a agenda is required under the said provisions of the Rules of Procedure, I don't think there's any need to discuss it.
ParlaMint-BA_2010-11-30-0.u4669	Also, I mean, I would only ask the Members of Parliament to prepare themselves for a solemn statement, and our secretary, Mrs Todorović, I will ask you to read on my behalf the exact text of our solemn statement, and we will repeat how it is normally done in Parliament. Mrs. Todorović, I ask you then to approach the reading of the solemn statement, and that we MPs repeat it. Please stand up.
ParlaMint-BA_2010-11-30-0.u4671	'I declare that I will knowingly perform the duties that I have been entrusted with; respect the Constitution of Bosnia and Herzegovina; fully implement the General Framework Agreement for Peace in Bosnia and Herzegovina; protect and defend myself for human rights and fundamental freedoms, and protect the interests and equality of all peoples and citizens.' 4
ParlaMint-BA_2010-11-30-0.u4672	Gentlemen, I thank you. APPLAUSE In... continuing a little attention, we have an act prepared and this will be the first act to be voted on. Madam Secretary, please read this act, and we'll put it to the vote.
ParlaMint-BA_2010-11-30-0.u4674	This morning at a working-consultative meeting, held at 10.00 hours, it was agreed that today's session should be terminated and its follow-up scheduled for 22. 12. 2010 It is therefore agreed to vote on this proposal today.
ParlaMint-BA_2010-11-30-0.u4675	Gentlemen, I implore you, by simple acclaim, so by raising your hands, to accept this act. I'm putting this act to a vote. Who's for? Madam Secretary, count the votes. Who's "yes," did we all raise our hands? Does anyone have a "against"? "Contained"?
ParlaMint-BA_2010-11-30-0.u4676	It's 41, there's no "against" votes, no "restraints."
ParlaMint-BA_2010-11-30-0.u4677	So 41 is 'for', no one is 'against', no one 'abstained' – this proposal is accepted. Thank you. And this is what we interrupt this session. The sequel follows as agreed. The seat was suspended at 12.20 hours. 5
