ParlaMint-BA_2010-06-16-0.u35214	Ladies and gentlemen of the Parliament, honored guests, please take your seats. Ladies and gentlemen of the House of Representatives, honored guests, I am opening the 79th session of the Parliamentary Assembly of BiH's House of Representatives. Our regular guests, the chairman and members of the Council of Ministers of BiH, the chairman and members of the BiH Presidency, representatives of OHR, the OSCE and other international organisations in BiH, who regularly monitor the work of our home, representatives of certain NGOs, were invited at today's session. At the session, we invited representatives of the Management Board of the Export-Credit Agency of BiH and the Central Election Commission to examine the materials of their jurisdiction. I welcome all present representatives and guests, as well as representatives of public information funds. According to service information, 31 MPs are present. They are justly absent: Mehmed Suljkanović, Šemsudin Mehmedović, Zlatko Lagumdžija and Savo Erić. Representatives Sead Jamakosmanović, Jerko Ivanković Lijanović and Martin Raguž said they would be late, although I see some already arrived. I find the session has a quorum for work and decision-making. In accordance with Article 80(2) of the Rules of Procedure, in the context of previous questions, I would like to inform you that the College of the House has reached agreement on the Proposal for a Law on Amendments and Supplements to the Law on Labour in the Institutions of BiH, which means that the proposal for a Law was adopted in a second reading, with reports from the Constitutional Legal Commission. As for the amendments to the agenda, I want to introduce you to the agenda that we have downloaded item 14. Proposal for a law prohibiting the wearing of clothing which makes it impossible to identify, with the Opinion of the Constitutional Commission, and at the request of the Joint Committee on Human Rights, the rights of the child, youth, immigration, refugees, asylum and ethics. We added to the agenda: point 4. The request of the BiH Council of Ministers for consideration of the Proposal for a Law on Amendments and Supplements to the Border Control Act under the haste procedure, in accordance with Article 127. Rules of Procedure; 2 Point 20. Proposal for a Committee on Foreign Affairs in connection with the realisation of the Initiative of Representatives Momčilo Novaković, adopted at the 77th session of the House, which reads: 'Determining guidelines for the action of temporary delegations that take part in international meetings on behalf of BiH'; Point 21. Proposal for the Ministry of Justice to appoint members from the House of Representatives to the Interresor Working Group to work on amending the Law on the Ministrys and other bodies of the BiH Administration, the Law on the Council of Ministers, the Law on State Service in BiH institutions, the Law on the Audit of BiH institutions, the Law on Administration and the Law on Public Procurement; point 23. Giving consent to ratification: (a) Agreement between the Council of Ministers of BiH and the Government of the Republic of France on cooperation in the field of internal security, (b) Agreement on the loan between Bosnia and Herzegovina and the European Bank for Reconstruction and Development – Canton Central Bosnia, (c) Protocol on Water and Health with the 1992 Convention on the Protection and Use of Cross-border Water and International Lakes of Bosnia and Herzegovina, (d) Treaty between Bosnia and Herzegovina and the Holy See on the Care of Catholic Believers, members of the Armed Forces of Bosnia and Herzegovina. We've completed point 6. Proposal for a law amending and supplementing the Act on the Protection of Secret Information, with the Joint Commission's report on the work of the Intelligence and Security Agency of BiH. And, point 14, according to the new agenda, the draft law amending the Law on State Service in BiH institutions, with the opinion of the Constitutional Commission. Before opening the debate on the proposed agenda, I would like to inform you that, in line with the conclusion of the colleges, and the narrow and expanded, we will propose to the House of Representatives that point 4. Proposal for a Law on Copyright and Related Rights, Proposer of the Council of Ministers of BiH, and point 5. Proposal for a law on collective exercise of copyright and related rights – that we will propose that, at the request of the competent commission, a plea be postponed until the next session. I'm opening a debate on the proposed agenda. Dear Representative Remzija Kadrić.
ParlaMint-BA_2010-06-16-0.u35215	I thank you, Chairman. This point, under regular number 19, is the proposal that I have on me, which reads: 'A statement on Momčilo Novaković's Parliament's initiative to include in the agenda of the House of Points session, which reads: The responsibility of the members of the BiH presidency for the conduct of BiH foreign policy in light of the latest statements of individual members'. What I'm saying is, this is not how you set the agenda, the way it's set up. From this, if we interpret the title of this agenda, that the members of the 3 Presidencies are not responsible, they are not responsible for the conduct of foreign policy. So this point of the agenda can't be formulated like this. It could have been formulated possibly: 'Responsibility of members of the Bureau for the possible mismanagement of foreign policy'. But this is how it is to formulate the responsibility of the members of the Bureau for foreign policy management in the light of... the latest statements of certain members, so the language interpretation of this title of the agenda item results in members of the Bureau not being in charge of foreign policy management, not being responsible for foreign policy, and members of the Bureau are both competent and responsible for foreign policy management. So I suggest that either the Proposer rephrase this proposal to the agenda point and until then that this item of the agenda be removed from the agenda. Therefore, this is how to formulate the agenda point would be past the Constitution and beyond the legal rules. So this is not how it can be formulated.
ParlaMint-BA_2010-06-16-0.u35216	I thank the honourable representative. Before the replica, just a brief clarification. So every proposer of the agenda item has the right to give the title of the agenda item. This initiative was in the committee responsible and this is a mandatory item of the agenda, and everyone will be able to express their views on it as soon as it is subject to discussion, or subject to decision. Replica, distinguished representative Momčilo Novaković.
ParlaMint-BA_2010-06-16-0.u35217	I thank you, Mr. Chairman. You just took the part I wanted to tell me. It is in my jurisdiction to propose the name of the agenda point, as it is in the presidency's jurisdiction to lead foreign policy. My colleagues can either support or not support this commission's position which is negative. But the way I formed the agenda, I'm staying at that point, of course, that's what I call the agenda points.
ParlaMint-BA_2010-06-16-0.u35218	Thank you. The next is distinguished representative Šefik Džaferović.
ParlaMint-BA_2010-06-16-0.u35219	Mr. Chairman, colleagues and colleagues, ladies and gentlemen, I do not like to burden the beginning of the session with a debate on the agenda, but I must only say as a supplement, the chairman, of what you have spoken about in terms of these copyright and related rights laws and collective exercise of related rights, and a few sentences that the general public knows... why we will plead to delay the pleas of these laws. 4 This is a proposal, a unanimous proposal of constitutional committees, and perhaps to point to one phenomenon and to the Council of Ministers and all of us who write laws and who adopt laws. This is a typical example of the law as it is written in BiH. All key problems surface at the final stage of the adoption of the law in the Parliamentary Assembly. We've received, say, from last time 28 new amendments to these laws. He has now come up with a problem of media relations and institutions for collective copyright. We can't just go over it. We need to sit down and discuss this, and that's why we're asking for this statement. So this is really justifiable. How are we going to end up, I don't know, but the problem came and what happened at 12 and 5 we saw the problem. Well, it's better than the problem came after we passed the law. That's it, thank you.
ParlaMint-BA_2010-06-16-0.u35220	Thank you for the clarification. The next is distinguished representative Bakir Izetbegović.
ParlaMint-BA_2010-06-16-0.u35221	In view of one phenomenon that has taken place in BiH, which is that mass debt is paid off by the jury, I propose for the next session of the House of Agenda session, which would read: 'Information of the Council of Ministers on the problems of the jury with the proposed measures to be taken to pay off the debt by the main debtors'.
ParlaMint-BA_2010-06-16-0.u35222	Thank you. The next is distinguished representative Denis Bećirović.
ParlaMint-BA_2010-06-16-0.u35223	Dear chairman, distinguished colleagues and colleagues, media representatives, I have been expecting several sessions that the chairman of the Council of Ministers will propose here a agenda item concerning a full report on the work of the BiH Council of Ministers in the past, or not four years. As this has not happened, I am taking the opportunity to suggest today that this one be on the agenda but since we have no reports, then let it go for the next session to include the agenda point: 'The report on the work of the BiH Council of Ministers for the period from January 2007 to June 2010.' I am ubijediti that no one in this House has any objection to the Council of Ministers elected here in Parliament at the end of this term reporting to this House what it has done since what was said at the beginning of this term. That is why, therefore, I propose that we task the BiH Council of Ministers to submit a report on its work in this period within 20 days at the latest and deliver it to you in writing. 5
ParlaMint-BA_2010-06-16-0.u35224	Deliver the written initiative. Just to inform both you and the general public, I would like to remind you that two or three sessions ago we had on the agenda information: a report on the work of the Council of Ministers for the past year. The next is distinguished representative Denis Bećirović, a replica.
ParlaMint-BA_2010-06-16-0.u35225	I just want, Mr. Chairman, to remind you that what you said was true that we had this report, but it was the 2009 Council of Ministers' report. What I'm proposing is a report for the past unfulfilled here for four years, so a full report. It's a perfectly normal thing in all the parliaments in Europe to have some government or some council of ministers report to whoever elected him at the end of their term.
ParlaMint-BA_2010-06-16-0.u35226	Thank you. The next is distinguished representative Branko Dokić.
ParlaMint-BA_2010-06-16-0.u35227	Mr. Chairman, my discussion is about item 19. I want to remind you all in this home that my initiative to submit the presidency in writing a report and an oral report on BiH's relations with neighbouring countries has long been accepted. When counterpart Novaković launched this initiative that I support, by the way, I asked the question and I did not get the answer until today: why has the Presidency not done a job that is mandatory under the Constitution of BiH, that we understand each other, and we have the Parliament's conclusion? I know that you can't give me an answer and I don't expect it, but, at the very least, I ask that if this initiative is adopted in parallel with this Presidency to report in writing on BiH's relations with neighbouring countries.
ParlaMint-BA_2010-06-16-0.u35228	Thank you. The next is Honorable Representative Drago Kalabić.
ParlaMint-BA_2010-06-16-0.u35229	Mr. Chairman, the SNSD Club has a similar proposal to the agenda point as proposed by Mr. Bakir Izetbegović, with which we are essentially similar and we are only different in the way of information, i.e. requests to the Council of Ministers, and if we could agree on that. The bottom line of our proposal is that we believe that the legal solutions that are currently in force, which regulate the issue of wroughts and debt relations, are not good. We think that 6 are made under the influence of a strong banking lobby at a time when these laws are created and there are many, which would say, holes in which certain categories remain unprotected, and it is 100% protected by banking interest. So our request was not only for information but for the Council of Ministers, or, directly to the finance minister, that it gives us both an analysis of the legal solutions and with their possible repairs, it means that we would not waste time because of a truly tragic situation, if it is possible for an emergency procedure to mean certain legal solutions when otherwise the position of the jury is and the rest that we try to fix it as quickly as possible. We think that there is room for repairs there and that this is if Mr. Izetbegović in that request would try that if he had room with this attitude so that it would go. If information were to go at the same time, but at the same time if they, although I suspect, they wanted to, they would have done it sooner, to deliver the possibility of repairing certain legal solutions when it comes to this matter.
ParlaMint-BA_2010-06-16-0.u35230	Since this is certainly a proposal for consideration for the next session, here is a suggestion for both the president and the other club to agree on in the meantime. If not, then deliver different initiatives and we'll process them. The next is distinguished representative Bakir Izetbegović, a replica.
ParlaMint-BA_2010-06-16-0.u35231	I mean, I can come up with your proposals at the next session, but here we can work out the agenda point together, so, with this law analysis, as you said, edit it.
ParlaMint-BA_2010-06-16-0.u35232	Thank you. The next is the distinguished representative Vinko Zorić.
ParlaMint-BA_2010-06-16-0.u35233	Here, I doubted whether here or after the second point, but I figured it was better here. I'm initiating an initiative to give this house a congratulations to the Bogar Club Gruda from Gruda. Namely, the Bogar Club Grude won a Cup of European Nations in Bosing on June 5th 2010. Since this is one of the biggest successes of club sport in BiH, I am of the opinion that the BiH Parliamentary Assembly's House of Representatives should send a telegram to the congratulatory one, thus lighting the face of BiH institutions. This success in normal circumstances and orderly management systems would deserve much more than congratulations, but we MPs and this home here seem powerless, so I ask my colleagues and colleagues to support this proposal. Otherwise, I like to wear shirts like my colleague Jerko, I'm a player of this club, and I'd wear a T-shirt. I'm going to add this initiative to a paper in seven that confirms it and where there's a report from that game, but I have a medal with me and I'm going to show it to all of you. So it's a medal won by every player of the Gruda Bogar Club when he won the finals of the European Nations Cup. Please, support me to send this card to the College, and I'll leave the executives at will. Thank you very much. [[APLAuz]]
ParlaMint-BA_2010-06-16-0.u35234	Here, I think this applause is an expression of support for this proposal by our esteemed colleague and the College of the House of Representatives undertakes to give us on behalf of all of us a congratulatory card for this outstanding sports success of the Bogar Club Gruda. We've concluded the debate on the agenda. Since we did not have a proposal to change the agenda for today's session, I find that the 79th session of the House has the following 1. The adoption of the 78th session of the House of Representatives; 2. Opinions on answers received, (b) New parliamentary issues; 3. The request of the BiH Council of Ministers for consideration of the Proposal for a Law on Amendments and Supplements to the Border Control Act under the haste procedure, in accordance with Article 127. Rules of Procedure, Law No 01,02-02-6-4010 of 4. Six. 2010; 4. Proposal for a Law on Copyright and Related Rights, Proposer of the Council of Ministers of BiH, Law No 01,02-02-2-510 of 18. 1. 2010. (second reading) – postponed statement at the 78th session of the House; 5. Proposal for a Law on collective exercise of copyright and related rights, Proposer of the Council of Ministers of BiH, Law No 01,02-02-2-410 of 18. 1. 2010. (second reading) ; 6. Proposal for a Law amending and supplementing the Act on the Protection of Secret Information, Proposer of the Council of Ministers of BiH, Law No 01,02-02-8-1910 of 4. 2. 2010, with the Joint Committee's report on the work of the BiH Intelligence and Security Agency; 7. Proposal for a Law on Amendments and Supplements to the Law on the conduct of a judicial examination in Bosnia and Herzegovina, Proposer of the Council of Ministers of BiH, Law No 01,02-02-5-2810 of 14. 4. 2010. (Second Reading); 8 / 8 Proposal for a Law on Amendments and Supplements to Bosnia and Herzegovina's Penal Code, Proponents of the SDPBiH Club, Law No 01-02-5-3110 of 21. 4. 2010. (second reading); 8 9. Report by the Commission of the College on an effort to reach agreement on the Proposal for a Law on the Promotion of Small and Medium Enterprises and Entrepreneurship in Bosnia and Herzegovina, Proposer of the Council of Ministers of BiH, Law No 01,02-02-4-1210 of 28. 1. 2010. (law in second reading); 10. Report by the Commission on the effort to reach agreement on the proposal for a revised strategy of Bosnia and Herzegovina for the implementation of Annex VII. Dayton Peace Agreement (Strategy in Second Reading); 11. Proposal for a law supplementing the Law on Service in the Armed Forces of Bosnia and Herzegovina, proposing representatives of the SDA Club, Law No 01-02-8-3610 of 21. 5. 2010. (first reading); 12. Proposal for a law amending and supplementing the Law on conflict of interest in the institutions of Bosnia and Herzegovina, legislator Martin Raguž, Law No 01-02-9-35- 110 of 14. 5. 2010. (first reading), 13. Proposal for a Law on the Census of Population, Households and Apartments in Bosnia and Herzegovina 2011, Proposer of the Temporary Commission, Law No 01-02-9-3710 of 24. 5. 2010. (first reading); 14. Proposal for a Law amending the Law on State Service in the Institutions of Bosnia and Herzegovina, Proposer Lazar Prodanović, Law No 01-02-9-3410 of 13. 5. In 2010, with the opinion of the Constitutional Commission; 15. Report on the work of the Management Board of Bosnia and Herzegovina Export Credit Agency for 2009, material No 01,02-50-3-51410 of 1. 4. 2010. – postponed debate at 78th session; 16. Report on the implementation of the law in charge of the Central Election Commission for 2009 – material number 01,02-50-3-57810 of 19. 4. 2010; 17. Information on the state of security in Bosnia and Herzegovina in 2009, material No 01,02-04-63510 of 30. 4. 2010; 18. Information on the establishment of responsibilities within the Office for the Review of BiH Appeals for not implementing the provisions of the positive rules concerning the regular rotation procedure at the head position of the Office, with a proposal from the BiH Council of Ministers for the Resolution of Dr. Amira Pilava, member of the BiH Appeal Office, material No 01,02-50-3-63110 of 29. 4. 2010; 19. Statement on RepresentativesMomčilo Initiative for inclusion in the agenda of the House of Dom item 'Responsibility of members of the BiH presidency for the conduct of Bosnia and Herzegovina's foreign policy in light of the latest statements of individual members'; 20. Proposal for a Committee on Foreign Affairs in connection with the implementation of the Initiative of Representatives Momčilo Novaković, adopted at the 77th session of the House, which reads 'Determining guidelines for the action of temporary delegations which take part in international meetings' on behalf of Bosnia and Herecgovina; 21. Proposal for appointing members of the House of Representatives in the Interresor Working Group to work on an amendment (act of the BiH Ministry of Justice) (a) of the Law on Ministrys and Other Organizational Administrations of BiH, (b) the Law on the Council of Ministers of BiH, (c) the Law on State Service in BiH institutions, (d) the Law on the Audit of BiH Institutions, (e) the Law on Government, (f) the Law on Public Procurement of BiH. 9 22. Appropriations for cancellation (a) of the European Convention on the Protection of Archaeological Heritage, adopted in London on 6 May 1969; 23. Giving consent to ratification (a) the Agreement between the Council of Ministers of BiH and the Government of the Republic of France on Internal Security Cooperation, (b) the Agreement on the Loan between Bosnia and Herzegovina and the European Bank for Reconstruction and Development – The Canton Central Bosnia, (c) the Protocol on Water and Health with the 1992 Convention on the Protection and Use of Cross-border Water and International Lakes, (d) the Treaty between Bosnia and Herzegovina and the Holy See on the Care of Catholic Believers, members of the Armed Forces of Bosnia and Herzegovina. We move to review item 1 of the Ad agenda. 1. The adoption of the 78th session of the House of Representatives
ParlaMint-BA_2010-06-16-0.u35238	Thank you, Mr. Chairman. Dear Members of Parliament, honourable representatives of the Council of Ministers, NGOs, international organisations, means of information, representatives of other state institutions, dear guests, here I will comment on the answer I received at the 76th session of the 21st session. 4. In 2010, which I am not satisfied with, and that is why I have to read the parliamentary question that I asked at the time and comment a little bit. I then said I was looking for an answer to the conclusion that was adopted 30. 12. In 2009, which reads: "It is up to the BiH Council of Ministers to deliver contracts to the BiH Parliamentary Assembly within 30 days on the lease of business premises used by BiH institutions, which are in force, as well as previous contracts related to the current contracts." And my question was directly like this, I ask the College: 'Did they get the answers mentioned, and, if not, to forward my parliamentary question to the Council of Ministers of BiH that I am asking for answers. And why so far, even though the deadline was 30. One this year, we didn't get an answer at the adoption? When will the aforementioned contracts be delivered according to the adopted conclusion?" So that was my question. I have received the following answer to this parliamentary question, which is very short and lame, and has nothing to do with this here which I have asked: 'The BiH Ministry of Finance and Treasury, the act of the number and that of the 5th. 5th of this year, delivered to the BiH Council of Ministers the information on the lease of BiH institutions in the 2010 Budget, with the proposed conclusions, including the supplement, the information contained in the consolidated table on the cost of leases planned for this year, and on the basis of data provided by users; the Opinion of the Office for the Law of the Council of Ministers, and the opinion of the BiH Ministry of Finance and Treasury on the information in question." 11 That is the answer I have received on my parliamentary question. I think this is either something missing or something else, here's what I'm not going to comment on. I ask again to be answered in accordance with my asked question and now I ask that the contracts be delivered as soon as possible under this conclusion, which was reached on 30. 12. In 2009. If they don't deliver it to the Parliamentary Assembly, I'm looking for him as an MP. And this opens up my assumptions and now creates doubts that there are certain irregularities in this area, that I was right when I proposed budget cuts for this year under this lease financing item for BiH institutions. And that's why I don't think I got the answer I was looking for from that conclusion I made last December. And, if there are no, let's say, abuse or malfeasance here, or maybe some milder word that I can't remember right now, then it would really be an indication that they delivered these requested contracts to this Parliament in time and it would be over, or they would have delivered it because here it has already been five months past the deadline. And that could be tolerated, but even after my asked parliamentary question, there is no such quality, that is, the right answer, and therefore my doubts are even more deepening. And I now insist again on this parliamentary issue, namely to be delivered to me as soon as possible, both to me and to Parliament according to this conclusion, but I cannot have much effect here unless they deliver it to Parliament according to my conclusion, but I ask that it be delivered to me. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-BA_2010-06-16-0.u35239	Thank you. The next is distinguished representative Šefik Džaferović.
ParlaMint-BA_2010-06-16-0.u35240	Mr. Chairman, I am not satisfied with the answer, nor am I satisfied with the action of the state authorities on this matter. I think this is a shame we got. My question was, therefore: 'At the beginning of this year, official features of the Republic of Serbia were set in the BiH municipality area of Bijeljin, the official inscription: Bogotic municipality. I'm interested in who did this, and on what grounds did the BiH authorities do to remove this inscription, especially what did the Border Police, the BiH Ministry of Foreign Affairs and the RS MUP? What were the reactions of the municipality bodies of the municipality of Bijeljin?' I get the answer, among other things: 'The setting of official features of the Republic of Serbia has been carried out by citizens of the Republic of Serbia, Živan Jakšić, who owns the gravel 'Serbian Syllabic', and by the procedure of establishing the border incident of the Border Police Units, the location along the main road Bijeljin - Badovnci, Republika Srpska, close to the international border crossing of the Pavlovic Bridge, about 800 metres in the interior of BiH compared to the border crossing of the Pavlovic bridge.' 12 And then it is said: 'In order to address this situation, the Public Enterprise Roads of the Republic of Slovenia and the Office for the Investigation Affairs of the Republic of Slovenia has been asked to urgently take measures and actions to determine responsibility, sanction the perpetrators as well as to tackle and eliminate the consequences of the incident. Since these institutions were not advertised according to the instrument addressed, neither were the characteristics of the Republic of Serbia removed, the BiH Border Police Unit sent an emergency and requested a statement on this issue." These are just parts of the answer to the question and this is an amazing thing. The BiH institution is therefore suffering from entry into BiH territory, placing an official inscription and a board of another state and its characteristics and then making an emergency there on the basis of some regulations to remove it. Where is the Council of Ministers here, where are the BiH institutions here? And if the BiH institutions act this way, then we should hope that these actions will be as much as you want, when it comes to BiH territory. The Border Control Act says: 'Article 37. Border surveillance is being carried out by the BiH Border Police in order to prevent the unauthorized crossing of the state border, curb cross-border crime and take measures towards persons crossing the state border in an unauthorized manner. In line with existing and envisaged risks and threats, and in order to carry out border surveillance and border crossing operations, the border police are taking appropriate measures and actions aimed at preventing and preventing persons from avoiding border crossing checks." The border belt is an area of 10km from the border crossing and the border line within BiH and is controlled by the BiH Border Police. A border incident pursuant to Article 43 and a violation of the state border, the activity of foreign state authorities and other persons at the national border or at its immediate proximity which is not permitted by international conventions, contracts and regulations, etc. and the competent authorities to resolve this issue are the BiH Border Police, which determines the border incident, the Foreign Ministry according to Article 44 (2) is responsible for resolving the border incident, and the procedure for determining and resolving the border incident and other State border violations is prescribed by the Council of Ministers by its implementing act. I am looking for an action by the BiH state to resolve this issue. There are enough normative stops that this should have been removed by the BiH authorities by now and I cannot understand that such a relationship can exist. So, we're urinating that the Road Directorate comes over there and removes that sign. Where is the BiH state here? I demand that the Council of Ministers put this matter on the agenda of its session, that information be delivered to us here in Parliament and that we bring it to debate. The BiH state cannot have this attitude towards its state border. That's it, thank you.
ParlaMint-BA_2010-06-16-0.u35241	Thank you. The next is the distinguished representative Mirjana Malić. 13
ParlaMint-BA_2010-06-16-0.u35242	My koleginica and colleagues, at my last session at the 78th session, I asked the Central Election Commission two short questions: "How will the treatment and control of paper imports necessary for the printing of ballots and how will abuse be prevented?" Before I comment on the answer, I would first of all like to thank the Central Election Commission for its extremely rare speed in response, but here is the session that followed immediately after 78, i.e. Today I get an answer in which the Central Election Commission has been claiming for many years that it has had protection standards to monitor the realisation of ballots and ballots, control at the location of printing and control of the printing process, coordination of shipping and supply of printed material, and there is no concern that there will be abuse of ballots. Since it is also said in a response signed by Mr Branko Petrić, that it is about obtaining watermarked paper for the production of ballots, all prescribed protection measures and procedurally designed destruction of maculars and other shears have been taken, as well as the control count of neutral paper with watermarks and lagerations. In addition to the many misunderstandings that such an easy answer leaves me, I only have one little comment. If the Central Election Commission really takes full responsibility for this process and for any possible and expected abuses and theft of ballots, I have no comment. Thank you.
ParlaMint-BA_2010-06-16-0.u35243	Thank you. The next is Remzija Kadrić, a respected representative.
ParlaMint-BA_2010-06-16-0.u35244	I thank you, Chairman. On my question to the Government of the Republic of Slovenia - Why is the Government of the Republic of Slovenia interfering and putting pressure on the judiciary and on the work of the Constitutional Court of BiH in the case of 'Alijagić', appeals Salih and Muamer Alijagić? - I received an answer signed by RS Justice Minister Džerard Selman, in which he stands among other things that the RS government acknowledges that it held a session of 15. 4. In 2010, she considered this case, i.e. as far as it came to the court case file in the case of 'Alijagić', and reached the conclusion that, among other things, the RS government... wants to make a strong contribution to the rule of law and legal certainty on the premises of BiH, knowingly, it is very interesting, therefore, aware that the independence of the judiciary can be misused in a way that through the protection of this principle a decision which harshly violates the rule of law and cannot go beyond the Government of the RS... through the fact that the illegal decision of the BiH Constitutional Court of Justice, the RS budget suffers damage. Therefore, this conclusion makes it clear that the Government of the Republic of Slovenia (from this response signed by Minister Selman) is in one inappropriate way interfering in the work of the judiciary and that such 14 conclusions make and prejudges things and argues that the illegal decisions of the Constitutional Court can do this or that. I think it's an inappropriate way of getting involved in the work of the judiciary, one thing. Secondly, the answer to my second parliamentary question, which I also referred to the Government of the Republic of Slovenia, which reads: "Why is the Constitutional Court's decision not being implemented on the constitutionality of the people regarding proportionate representation in the institutions of public administration?" Minister Zoran Lipovac, Minister of Administration and Local Self-Government, answers this question and only explains the procedure that civil servants receive, according to which regulations, etc., so that I did not get an answer to this question at all that I was looking for. And this third question: "How long has it been since the public administration reform? I received a response from the Council of Ministers to conclude that this public administration reform has not been implemented until the end of 2009, that only 39.7% of the measures envisaged by the Action Plan of this public administration reform have been implemented so far. So I suggest, I suggest, I ask the Council of Ministers for this public administration reform to be completed. Thank you.
ParlaMint-BA_2010-06-16-0.u35245	Thank you. The next is distinguished representative Husein Nanić.
ParlaMint-BA_2010-06-16-0.u35246	I thank you, Chairman. My colleagues and fellow MPs, members of the Council of Ministers, I received, as the chairman said, three answers to three questions. I want two comments, one of them, in fact, are both from the Council of Ministers, but it was responsible for the Ministry of Justice. And I want to thank first of all for the quick response from the Justice Ministry and Minister Čolak to the question about our conclusion that, at the request of delivery, the Law on Lustration of BiH and the finding that an Interresor Working Group has been formed, the Interresor Working Group, and that, as soon as possible, the draft law will be referred to the procedure and, on the other hand, I appeal to the Council of Ministers and to the working group to come as soon as possible, if not in this assembly, at least, that the new assembly of the BiH Parliament will welcome... this law. And the second answer I received to the question, also from the Council of Ministers, that is, the Ministry of Justice, which concerns the issues relating to the listening of BiH citizens and what has been done and what will be done to prevent illegal listening if it exists. The answer to what can be seen is one of the beliefs that gives me, as I say, confidence in the BiH institutions, in the ministries, in the judicial institutions, that it is only possible for these answers in this question to carry out listening, namely what is called and professionally referred to here as 'by the decisions of the judicial authorities, and that the BiH institutions, i.e. 15 The Justice Ministry serves only as a transfer, without the right to open these cases, which is also specified by law'. I hope and believe that it is both present and in practice and that the laws regulate that thing, however, whether there is an illegal listening or not, here I do not have in this answer, there is neither a finding nor a possible assessment in that sense, so I wanted to comment and answer this question. Thank you.
ParlaMint-BA_2010-06-16-0.u35247	Thank you. The next is the distinguished representative Lazar Prodanović.
ParlaMint-BA_2010-06-16-0.u35248	Mr. Chairman, distinguished colleagues and fellow MPs, I have received an answer to my question addressed to the Directorate for indirect taxation at the 77th session of the House of Representatives and, above all, I thank you for your quick answer, and I am pleased with the partial answer sent by the Directorate for Direct Taxation. However, I do not see why this report does not state how many companies are involved in fictitious traffic with the aim of avoiding VAT payments and how much is the turnover of these companies? Therefore, that response could have been given by the Directorate for Direct Taxation without any interference so as to hinder the process of investigation conducted by the Prosecutor's Office. Also, for the sake of the BiH public, I think it would be necessary for the competent institutions, in this case, the Directorate for Direct Taxation and the Prosecutor's Office, as soon as legal conditions are obtained, to inform the public of the amount of fraud. I don't see why she couldn't, and what time was this done? I believe that the subject of such discussions should therefore be that every year we have accurate data in the report that the inspection services of the Directorate for indirect taxation and in how many cases these machinations have been discovered which, above all, damage to the budget and the Single Account of the Directorate for indirect taxation of BiH. Thank you.
ParlaMint-BA_2010-06-16-0.u35249	Thank you. The next is Honorable Representative Adem Huskić.
ParlaMint-BA_2010-06-16-0.u35250	Mr. Chairman, I've been following, since they haven't applied for comments, I've applied for new questions.
ParlaMint-BA_2010-06-16-0.u35251	Well, then wait a minute. The following is the second Vice-President Dr. Milorad Živković. 16
ParlaMint-BA_2010-06-16-0.u35252	Dear Chairman, colleagues and fellow Members of Parliament, ladies and gentlemen, I would also like to welcome the Secretary of the Council of Ministers, I want to believe that the ministers are too busy and have an excuse for not being here today. I do not want to believe that they are afraid of MPs' questions because I think that if ministers cannot answer the question of MPs and if they have less information than the MPs themselves, they should not do what they do. My comment is on the parliamentary question. Namely, the Council of Ministers is at 121th session, held on 20th. 5. In 2010, he found an answer to the parliamentary question on the effects of transferred competences from entity to BiH institution, set at the 64th session, held on 24th. 11. In 2009, a practical 60-session meeting of the Council of Ministers passed to answer this question. And given this longer period of time, I expected more comprehensive analytical information, and I received a collection of comments from individual institutions. I have not received an assessment of the effects of the transferred powers in terms of how justified, functional they have proved and whether it makes more sense that they are at BiH level or that they are at entity level. With this in mind, I ask the Council of Ministers to provide me with unique information, and as a model of making the same – since this model that has been provided to me is non-transparent, non-functional, and how the production methodology is applied – I propose Information on the effects of transfer of the constitutional competences of the entities to the institutions of BiH made by the Government of the Republic of BiH in April 2009, where in a very reviewed manner, the jurisdiction, the way of transmission, the current status and whether the transfer has given the desired effect, as well as whether that competence is in line with the functioning analysis at BiH or entity level. At the same time, I ask the Federation Government to inform me and deliver the same information if there is, as the transfer of competence concerns both state-owned entities and the level of joint institutions. I ask the Council of Ministers to make up a full report on the effects of the delegated powers, i.e. after a thorough review of all the delegated competences so far, according to RIA standards, that the technical assumptions for the assessment of the normative, regulatory and institutional effect or benefit resulting from the transfer of the competence of entities to the level of BiH require the introduction of an institutional analysis of regulatory benefit or RIA within the framework of existing capacities as a method of systematic and consistent examination of the costs of the benefits and potential effects of laws and regulations before and after the adoption of those rules, and to provide information on the same competences of the public authorities. I remind you that 22 OECD countries, the Organisation for Economic Co-operation and Development, have introduced RIA into their legislative systems. In June 2001, the European Commission also officially accepted RIA. I don't see any reason for BiH not to act the same way. And chairing, if you allow me not to return again, a very short question addressed to the Ministry of Transport and Communications of BiH, and I ask the question to be asked by the Registrar Minister: 'In which stage the IMPC has been assigned to the Post Office of the International Post Office of the World Postal Union to organise public postal operators in BiH and their responsibilities, their way of representation, as well as the consent to the allocation of the IMPC code to the Serbian Post Office. I believe that the application for a code is not illegal and has no 17 political dimension, but stems from the Law on Postes and other applicable acts in this area in BiH." Thank you.
ParlaMint-BA_2010-06-16-0.u35253	Thank you. We've already moved on to asking questions. The next one is for asking the question, distinguished representative Džaferović Šefik.
ParlaMint-BA_2010-06-16-0.u35254	Mr. Chairman, colleagues and colleagues, at one of the previous sessions, I asked the Agency for Forensics and Skills as a new police body in BiH. This time I want to continue with regard to the other institutions, except for this Coordination Directorate, because its director has only recently been set up, so we're going to follow that thing a little further. So the first question is: 'What stage is the establishment of state police structures in BiH? This is especially true when it comes to the Agency for Schooling and Professional Training of Police Staff and the Police Structures Support Agency in BiH. Are the exact information that the Educational and Professional Training Agency intends to build its own police personnel next to the already existing areas in Sarajevo and Banja Luka?' And the second question that just seems to have nothing to do with this first one, and I will say that it has connections, reads: "What did the Council of Ministers of BiH do to make sure that judges and prosecutors in BiH who work outside their place of residence pay compensation for housing and separate lives as well as in all other BiH institutions because this is a very important issue for establishing a multiethnic structure in the BiH judiciary system?" I got the information, I don't know if it's true, that besides the Sarajevo Police Academy and its premises and the Banja Luka Police Academy and its premises, there are 4 to 8 million marks to build a space somewhere on the ledge for this schooling institution and professional training of police personnel. I think it's all possible to do it within existing areas within BiH. And on the other hand, BiH is being violated by the already achieved degree of establishing a multiethnic picture of judicial authority in BiH because judges do not have the right to accommodation and do not have the right to separate lives as everyone else, so the judge in his place of residence who has paid in the municipal court is 2,400 marks and judges who leave his place of residence in the other place with the same salary and without any other fees are in very different positions and people simply return and flee to their families. There's money in this country, and I've shown this is a link, so the financial link between these two issues is to use the premises in BiH more rationally and to spread less and to focus the money where necessary. Here is an example of how these 4 to 8 million marks can be directed to help the judiciary to preserve a multiethnic picture in BiH and continue to establish a multiethnic picture in the BiH judiciary system. 18 So much, thank you.
ParlaMint-BA_2010-06-16-0.u35255	Thank you. The next is Honorable Representative Adem Huskić.
ParlaMint-BA_2010-06-16-0.u35256	Thank you, Mr. Chairman. Dear colleagues, members of the Council of Ministers, guests, I have a brief question addressed to the BiH Council of Ministers for Justice. The question is: "What do you intend to do to ensure the legal certainty of BiH citizens when they leave outside our country's borders to avoid arrests for allegations of incrimination from war or even pre-war periods in other countries?" Thank you.
ParlaMint-BA_2010-06-16-0.u35257	Thank you. The next is Honourable representative Sadik Bahtić.
ParlaMint-BA_2010-06-16-0.u35258	Thank you. Dear colleagues and colleagues, members of the Council of Ministers (if they are here, and I see none), representatives of the international community, the NGO sector, all of you and the media, I welcome. My first question is the chairman of the Council of Ministers. Špirić, I wish he was here today so he could answer some questions for me. Dear Chairman, I would like you to answer: 'Why did you visit the RS Representation during your official visit to Israel and not the Embassy of BiH in Tel Aviv?' You traveled to Israel in front of and on the cost of the BiH state, not in front of and on the cost of RS. As the first man of the Council of Ministers when you were already traveling to Israel, if anything, you had a moral obligation to visit the BiH Embassy in Israel to meet and inform on the state of BiH citizens living in the Palestinian self-government area in the context, as some were hostages in the humanitarian convoy for Gaza. I, and I believe most BiH citizens, are very interested in living BiH citizens in the Palestinian self-government and all that has been happening in connection with the Israeli commanders' attack on the humanitarian convoy. A second question to the Ministry of Justice, the Ministry of Defence, the Ministry of Foreign Affairs: 19 'What have you done and what are you planning to do to release Mirsad Salkić of Bihaq, a member of the Armed Forces of BiH, after being arrested in Serbia for the alleged war crimes he committed in Croatia?' As you know, Salkić was arrested as he entered Serbia at a border crossing between Croatia and Serbia where he attended his class of military school celebrations. Serbian authorities' behaviour in the arrest of bh is unacceptable. Citizens for those war crimes: yesterday Jurišić, today Salkić, Ganić. Who's next? moj Krajišnik, from Bihac Mirsad Salkić, was arrested by Serbian police for allegedly deserting from the JNA, Serbia admitted in court in London that JNA, it participated in the war in BiH and allegedly took with it eight guns and two rifles. It turns out that Serbia can arrest all members of the BiH Army who have deserted the JNA and carried with it some of the assets. This Serbia violates the Agreement on Sucession because it is known that under the property agreement it belongs to the countries created from the former ex-Yugoslavia, and how Serbia works, and we in BiH and Croatia could each day arrest all those who were in the JNA and fought in the field of ex-Yugoslavia. How long would that take us and where? And the third question, briefly, for the BiH Ministry of Defence: 'What have you done against those responsible for the scandal in Stoc where bh is. Soldiers, during the discovery of monuments to the dead members of the HVO, lined up with the Croatian Anthem, our beautiful? Despite the fact that senior state and federal officials were present on this issue, is BiH's anthem not intonated? For this procedure, i.e. engagement bh. The soldier, someone responsible for the failure because it was probably the BiH Defence Ministry's decision. In all these three cases, the BiH state is being minimized and humiliated. For me as a State MP, this is inadmissible, I believe that the state should function and all those representing the state should also fight to strengthen the state, not to minimise it and humiliate it. Thank you.
ParlaMint-BA_2010-06-16-0.u35259	Thank you. Next is Honorable Representative Mirko Okolić.
ParlaMint-BA_2010-06-16-0.u35260	Thank you, Mr. Chairman. I have submitted an initiative to put on the agenda the "Advise the Information Group of Citizens on the founding of BiH's judicial authorities on the processing of war crimes at the time of the tragic war conflict on BiH territory", received 9. Six last year. The initiative has passed the committee procedure and procedure in the House, or was adopted in the House and as such can go on the agenda. However, certain preparations have been made, which is quite understandable, for putting this item on the agenda and for me to see the documentation and the rest I have concluded that the conditions have been met that this point can be put on the agenda and ask that it be put on the agenda, i.e. put into the procedure immediately to get to the agenda as soon as possible. 20 I don't think there's anything in here that I should write down, that's enough from the record to get it on track and go into procedure. Another initiative for the agenda item is 'Information on concluded contracts for the lease of business premises used by BiH institutions that are in force as well as previous contracts related to the current contracts'. Reason: I expressed my dissatisfaction with the fact that we have not received an answer in time or at any time when it was really problematic at the time of the adoption of the BiH budget for this year and where we have all agreed here in the House that there is a lot of funds for business space contracts, or for the use of business spaces, that this should be reduced, and it is expressed doubts that these contracts may not have been made in the way that would be best for BiH, i.e. as a household business. And that's why we asked this conclusion, and by the end of January of the month, we've been asked to have these contracts delivered to see if there's any need to discuss them further or not, maybe it's all right, and maybe it's not. Since we didn't get that, if I didn't get an answer to my MP's question, I'm convinced that there have been conditions to initiate this kind of agenda that we need to discuss at the next session, at one of the next sessions. I hope that the MPs, my distinguished colleagues and fellow Members will support this because it is for all of us to receive these contracts and to see why we give a few dozen million and whether it is all in accordance with the law and everything the law prescribes. And that is solely because we are offering our institutions, in addition to being all by law, to offer our institutions to use as soon as possible business premises that will be purchased or our business premises or in some other way that this enormous number that is being allocated for rent, and which I consider to be thrown down a stream of water, reduces to some minimum measure and, at some point, that it is completely reduced and that there is no lease at all. Because with my account how much money we have paid for the existence of BiH institutions to date, we could have made all the business premises needed by these institutions, of course, with the withdrawal of some loan and the payment of monthly annuities or the annual annuities of this lease.
ParlaMint-BA_2010-06-16-0.u35261	Time!
ParlaMint-BA_2010-06-16-0.u35262	Thank you very much. If the time is up, here's a written proposal for the agenda point's initiative. Thank you.
ParlaMint-BA_2010-06-16-0.u35263	Thank you. The next is the distinguished representative of the Vesna Šain. 21
ParlaMint-BA_2010-06-16-0.u35264	Dear Chairman, ladies and gentlemen, my question has been addressed to the BiH Prosecutor's Office: What has been done so far to prosecute the war crimes that took place on Easter 25th and 26th April 1992. the years when the regular forces of the Croatian Army of the Rijeka Brigade, the HVO and the Green Beretka in the Dervent village of Chardak killed men in their homes of 37 Serb nationalities, including women and children? This terrible crime has been all known and told so far, an exhumation and autopsy has been carried out, huge documentation created, all relevant institutions are familiar with the crime, even the Hague tribunal, but no one has ever been responsible for this crime. I ask the BiH Prosecutor's Office: 'Is anything done in processing the crime mentioned above? In favour of my parliamentary question, I'm delivering the names of the innocent victims of the victims who were killed at my homes on Easter in '92. 'years.' Thank you.
ParlaMint-BA_2010-06-16-0.u35265	Thank you. The next is a respected representative, Sefer Halilović.
ParlaMint-BA_2010-06-16-0.u35266	Dear Chairman, fellow Members of Parliament, a brief comment: You are just now in the list of who received the answer to the parliamentary questions mentioned my name, but I did not get that answer. True, there's an answer in my materials to Rifet Dolić you didn't call, so there's something wrong with professional services, so please look at it. _________(?) [[no microphone turned on]] I... something didn't, he failed. My question was addressed to the BiH Central Bank. Under one: 'How much is the salary, earnings, fees and other fees received by the governor, vice governor, member of the Governing Council, chief internal auditor, officials, intermediaries, correspondents and other staff of the Central Bank of BiH?' The second question is: "What independent repossory house audited the financial operations of the Central Bank in 2009 and how many audit services have been paid? The explanation for this question is quite broad and I will comment on it when I get an answer." Thank you very much. 22
ParlaMint-BA_2010-06-16-0.u35268	Thank you. The next is distinguished representative Husein Nanić.
ParlaMint-BA_2010-06-16-0.u35269	I thank you, Chairman. My question today is to the government of the Federation, more specifically the resolute Ministry of Energy, given the fact that the government, or the resolution ministry, has promoted a project of investment in the energy sector in the Federation of BiH. Among other things, the document shows that construction and hydrothermia are planned at the Unc in Unsko-San canton, the Bihać municipality. I ask the question of the Minister: 'Is all procedures necessary in terms of obtaining the necessary permits and opinions, both the local communities of the Bihac municipality and the Unsko-San canton?'
ParlaMint-BA_2010-06-16-0.u35270	Thank you. The next is the distinguished representative Azra Alajbegović.
ParlaMint-BA_2010-06-16-0.u35271	Dear Chairman, colleagues and colleagues, I have a very short question to ask the Interrectorial Conference, which reads: 'How many universities in BiH have signed a Protocol on mutual co-operation enabling the involvement of teachers and co-workers of individual universities in the universities of other universities outside the home, given the imperative of the mobility of teachers and associates who are involved in the goals of the Bologna process?'
ParlaMint-BA_2010-06-16-0.u35272	Thank you. The next one is Commissioner Nermina Zaimović-Uzunović-Uzunovic.
ParlaMint-BA_2010-06-16-0.u35273	Thank you very much, esteemed presidency. My colleagues and colleagues, ladies and gentlemen, I am very disappointed that none of the ministers or their dominants are present today, which means they don't even care what we're talking about here. On the other hand, they're not interested in answering what we agreed and we've reached conclusions, so I'm going to ask the next question. First, as a conclusion that the Parliamentary Assembly's House of Representatives held on 10 March 2010 concluded, which reads: "It is up to the BiH Council of Ministers to provide the House of Representatives with full information on a letter from the BiH Ministry of Security sent to the UN to declare certain organisations from BiH that they are linked to terrorist organisations and 23 putting out of force a document that causes legal uncertainty for citizens and institutions in BiH," (completed quote). Unfortunately, to this day we have not heard that the documents were put out of force, we have not received the requested information despite the insistence. It is unacceptable that the Ministry of Security has not so far been publicly shown about the problem of declaring citizens and organisations terrorist. It means we're all targets of being shot when someone needs it, without arguments. As far as this conclusion is concerned, while we wait for an answer, I ask for a brief reply: "Is the list of organisations that are called terrorists forwarded to the UN?" If so, who sent him along with whose consent? And secondly, "Why didn't the Ministry say at least in that segment that's very simple to verify, and that's about the NGO Women Women who seem to be just collateral damage, when the facts about this organization are very easily verifiable, when this organization is working with institutions, state institutions, and when I say so, we all know that. What exactly am I talking about this organization for? Because she co-operates with this authority, because it is a very respectable organization and because if such an organization is trained in the issue of terrorism, what will happen to the others?" Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-BA_2010-06-16-0.u35274	Thank you. Next is Honorable Representative Rifat Dolić.
ParlaMint-BA_2010-06-16-0.u35275	Gentlemen chairman, colleagues and colleagues, distinguished guests, I have two questions and one emergency. The first question is to the BiH Council of Ministers: "When the Council of Ministers discussed the latest information on the state of fire protection in BiH, what is the situation in this area given the arrival of the summer season and the increased dangers of fire, and are the preventive measures taken?" To ask this question, I am encouraged by the demand of several of the most responsible people in the cantons and several major municipalities in BiH, who are concerned about the current state of fire protection, stressing the many problems that have caused their fears of inadequate regulatory, incorrect fire trucks and equipment, insufficient numbers and poor training of the people, the absence of any binding and co-ordination of fire protection in BiH. If the reasons for the current situation in fire protection are found in alleged savings in public consumption, as can be heard, I think there are many other areas where it is more rational and painless to train public spending savings than to do so in an area that is in the function of protecting people and material goods from fire and fire verse. The second question is addressed to the BiH Council of Ministers to the Ministers: 24 'How BiH implements obligations to implement part of reforms in higher education related to the Bologna process and what is the assessment of the readiness of higher education institutions in BiH for the announced certification in 2011 and 2012. the year?' I ask this question after we are too often faced with estimates that the Bologna process is another in a series of reforms in BiH that are welcomed unprepared and unserious, and this time the role is too valuable and strategic, because it is about young people and their education. Unfortunately, it is not far from the full reality that... reforms in higher education in BiH are brought down to the flood of universities and universities that are racing who will enroll students and issue a diploma, because today it is a lucrative business, and about the quality of education and employment prospects, as usual, at another time. I'm asking the Department of Homes to send an emergency to the University of Bihac... for an answer to my question that I asked a little over six months ago. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-BA_2010-06-16-0.u35276	Thank you. Next is Honorable Representative Slavko Jovičić.
ParlaMint-BA_2010-06-16-0.u35277	Thank you, Mr. Chairman. Ladies and gentlemen, distinguished colleagues and colleagues, distinguished representatives of the Council of Ministers, I welcome you tonically, and I do not see you visually. I ask a parliamentary question to you, the Council of Ministers of BiH: 'Is the tender for the purchase of a business space for the accommodation of the Public Enterprise Official Journal of BiH published and, if so, asking for detailed information about the procedure carried out, so the price of squares and whether it is a lease or a purchase of permanent space?' So, full information on moving the official messenger from the previous location to the new one. Because there's been a lot of speculation in the paper, and I don't want to speculate and ask for official information. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-BA_2010-06-16-0.u35278	Thank you. The next is distinguished representative Denis Bećirović.
ParlaMint-BA_2010-06-16-0.u35279	Given that no conclusion has been reached in the framework of the establishment of the agenda on my initiative to submit a four-year report on the work of the Council of Ministers, here is 25, based on Article 8. I am delivering an initiative to the Rules of Procedure of the House of Representatives to receive a report on the work of the Council of Ministers over the past four years. I am delivering the initiative reorganizing it and I am asking you in the College that as soon as possible in this or possibly early next week, please submit this initiative to the committee responsible for the debate so that it can be declared at the next session. When it comes to parliamentary issues, I want to ask the following questions today. First question: "Did the BiH Council of Ministers sanction any responsible person at the state level because of the current government's failure to ensure the liberalisation of the visa regime for BiH citizens?" It is simply amazing that no one seems to be responsible for such an indignity. That's why I'm asking this question because I'm one of the MPs who returned his diplomatic passport at the end of last year and who was forced to take this so-called. An ordinary passport like the rest of the citizens. And at the same time, while we're working here today in this air-conditioned room, hundreds, let's not say, and thousands of people are standing with little kids on plus 35o and taking out visas. And, for such an accident to all the people in this country, I (so I ask that question) don't know that anyone answered in this country. I would like to ask the Ministry of Finance and Treasury at the BiH Council of Ministers: 'How long has BiH been in charge until 1995, how much is our country in charge between 1995 and 2006, and how much is it in charge from 2006 to 2010. the year?' Next question to the BiH Council of Ministers: "What did you specifically do in the period from 2007 to June 2010 with the aim of improving the image of BiH in the world?" I also ask this question because it was part of the opening presentation of the Council of Ministers chairman, where he announced that this would make the Council of Ministers a much better picture of BiH in the past four years. And in order not to have all these other questions, there are seven more, asking them to enter the Rules of Procedure, not only should MPs today express their dissatisfaction with the dissatisfaction with the Presidency of the Council of Ministers and Ministers, but he would have asked that this report include the procedure of the Chair of the Council of Ministers and Ministers (no one today at the meeting) contrary to the Rules of Procedure of the House of Representative. Because today, some MPs wanted us to ask some questions that we wanted the oral answer to in accordance with Articles 152 and 153. Rules of Procedure. We are today prevented from knowing what reasons within the Council of Ministers, and therefore I ask that this fact be entered into this minutes at this point in the agenda. 26
ParlaMint-BA_2010-06-16-0.u35280	Thank you. I don't have any more applications to ask counseling questions and I'm concluding this agenda item. We move to the 3rd point of the established agenda: Ad. 3. The request of the BiH Council of Ministers for consideration of the Proposal for a Law on Amendments and Supplements to the Border Control Act under the haste procedure, in accordance with Article 127. Rules of Procedure The BiH Council of Ministers submitted the bill 4. Six. In 2010, with a request for a preliminary examination. Today we're deciding on this request, I'm opening a debate on this request. The Honorable First Vice-President, Mr. Beriz Belkić.
ParlaMint-BA_2010-06-16-0.u35282	Mr. Kutleša, if you have time, wait a few minutes to hear what I'm about to say. I apologize for the way I do, but at least take it. So it is absolutely not disputed that we understand what this is about, so the explanation also said the liberalisation of the visa regime, etc. So this request is for an emergency procedure. This document was adopted 20. 5. At a meeting of the Council of Ministers, the parliamentary procedure entered 4th. Six, so that's 14 days. We didn't have a session at that interval, today it's 16. So, with a little effort, with a little co-operation and the Council of Ministers' willingness to co-operate with our services, we could have already finished this. And here, I apologize to my colleagues, but I don't answer when we discuss it. I believe we'll accept because we have nowhere to go, visa liberalisation is at stake, we'll accept emergency procedures, just a few sentences. So it would be very important for us here to have someone explain: whether what we are doing now falls within one of those groups of unfulfilled conditions, thus harmonising criminal legislation, strengthening the capacity of institutions dealing with organised crime, etc. electronic data exchange – does this belong to one of these groups or is this something else new? Why am I saying this? We at international conferences in communication with people from the EU claim that we have met the conditions, we argue that this is about an incorrect relationship with BiH, etc. And now we're asking, is there anything else going to come up that we haven't done anything? I don't know if you understand me, Mr. Džaferović. So, I'm sorry to say that I caught you saying this, because I don't know how or how to get this up to the Council of Ministers. And not to say here what it says in the explanation: that, with one ministry with the consent of 27 others, something is doing, etc., etc. So, the law that we passed here last year, all of a sudden, we found that we had failures and failures, and that really doesn't make sense.
ParlaMint-BA_2010-06-16-0.u35283	Thank you. The next is the distinguished representative Lazar Prodanović.
ParlaMint-BA_2010-06-16-0.u35284	I'm sorry... I didn't sign up.
ParlaMint-BA_2010-06-16-0.u35285	Thank you. No more reports, closing the hearing. Moving to the fourth item of the agenda: Ad. 4. Proposal for a Law on Copyright and Related Rights, Proposer: Council of Ministers of BiH, Law No 01,02-02-2-5/10 of 18. 1. 2010 (second reading) At the 78th session of the House, a conclusion was adopted, in charge of the Constitutional Legal Commission, that the Proposal for a Law on Copyright and Related Rights should be reconsidered in the direction of seeking compromise solutions and, in accordance with the discussions held at the 77th and 78th sessions of this House. The constitutional commission is 14. Six. In 2010, it submitted a notice stating that 33 amendments were submitted to both proposed laws, which represent proposals for compromise solutions, and this commission decided to form a working group, composed of three members of the commission, representatives of the Institute for Intellectual Property of BiH and a representative of collective copyright protection organisations, whose task would be to agree on compromise amendments. The commission proposes to postpone a statement on the bill's proposal until the next House session. And you have already heard in the opening part of the session in previous questions the oral explanation of the chairman of the Constitutional Commission. We will declare this at the time of the House’s plea, for we have already concluded the debate on this. We're going through, there's no discussion, there's no debate. We're going to point five, Ad. 5. Proposal for a Law on collective exercise of copyright and related rights, Proposer: Council of Ministers of BiH, Law No 01,02-02-2-10 of 18. 1. 2010 (second reading) 28
ParlaMint-BA_2010-06-16-0.u35289	As far as the scale of things is concerned, it is perfectly clear, so this controversial amendment is assessed and evaluated by the relevant EU institutions, in the way it has been assessed. However, I came out more because of this Joint Commission report, on page 2, where it comments on the fate of the amendments. I don't know if anyone can answer me, here's Mr. Okolić. Mr. President, here's the thing. So here in this report says the Joint Commission with two votes is "for", four votes "against", one "restricted" in line, etc. with the existence of a free majority, so with two votes "yes", four "against", with the finding that there is a general majority, but because of the failure to meet the conditions has not adopted the amendments. As far as I understand it, these amendments weren't adopted and because of the absence of the general majority, is this pea or am I weak in understanding this? So please, here's a little bit of an explanation.
ParlaMint-BA_2010-06-16-0.u35290	Thank you. Next is Honorable Representative Mirko Okolić.
ParlaMint-BA_2010-06-16-0.u35291	That's at amandman II.. Right? _________(?) [[no microphone turned on]] What? 29 _________(?) [[no microphone turned on]]
ParlaMint-BA_2010-06-16-0.u35295	Thank you. No more reports, closing the hearing. Moving to the 7th point of the agenda: Ad. Seven. Proposal for a Law on Amendments and Supplements to the Law on the conduct of a judicial exam in Bosnia and Herzegovina, Proposer: Council of Ministers of BiH, Law No 01,02-02-5-28/10 of 14. 4. 2010 (second reading) At the 78th session of the House, held on 25. 5. In 2010, this law was adopted in the first reading, the competent constitutional committee delivered the report 14. 6th and supported the text of the bill and proposed its adoption to the House. In the plenary phase, one amendment again defends MP Drago Kalabić. I'm opening a debate on the draft law in the second reading. Dear Representative Šefik Džaferović.
ParlaMint-BA_2010-06-16-0.u35297	Mr. Chairman, colleagues and colleagues, it is an important law that is connected, very short and very important, and can serve as an example for solving in other areas as well. You know that we haven't certified the universities in BiH and that the Department of Justice's application for a judicial exam has received all kinds of diplomas that say the graduate lawyer and however he receives, people say, I can't believe, from the Justice Department, here I would beg them to say here, that there are diplomas of graduate lawyers acquired after just one year. The amazing thing, and then people decided, and it says there a condition for laying in the existing law is that a graduate lawyer and spent a certain number of years in practice. It's known to us when a graduate lawyer is said: it's four years of college, it's what I mean graduates... with four years of college, all of a sudden, and of course they refused, and now they're at the BiH Court of Justice on that occasion. Because 31 is wanted to be admitted, says the graduate lawyer there, here comes the minister of justice here so he can explain it better, and that's why this is a very important law because the Ministry of Justice is now introducing points that are listed under the Law on Higher Education. We haven't certified universities, we've extended it for another two years in BiH, I think we should hurry up and end up in BiH as soon as possible. And now we're in the same situation as we are and that's why this law is important. The amendment again in the plenary phase today was submitted at a session of the Constitutional Legal Commission. It is a technical amendment, i.e. an amendment requiring the erasure of a provision of a legal and technical nature, and it is not possible to delete it. There must be harmonisation within BiH in this area, and this law must be the basis for harmonisation of entity laws and therefore this should stand. Some say you shouldn't because the first one says it has to be harmonised, and the first one has to be harmonised, the second one says he has to get along. That is why he should stand and therefore this amendment is not accepted. And I call upon you today to support this text as established by the Constitutional Commission. That's it, thank you.
ParlaMint-BA_2010-06-16-0.u35298	Thank you. The next is the first vice-president, Mr. Beriz Belkić.
ParlaMint-BA_2010-06-16-0.u35299	Mr. Džaferović, I apologize, I absolutely support what you're talking about and, of course, we will support this law. However, this amendment remains unclear, Mr. Kalabić. I don't see from this report from your commission that he was on that committee, and here he is at the House of Representatives. Is there a misunderstanding about what's going on here? So today we have this amendment to Mr. Kalabić, and I don't see it in this report of the commission when she discussed the law in the second reading that she treated this amendment at all. I understand what you're talking about when it comes to the content of this amendment, but I don't seem to have the procedure to meet the conditions for it to be here today. I'm afraid we don't make that mistake. BRANKA
ParlaMint-BA_2010-06-16-0.u35300	/no microphone turned on/
ParlaMint-BA_2010-06-16-0.u35301	Then maybe it's a technical failure.
ParlaMint-BA_2010-06-16-0.u35302	Technically.
ParlaMint-BA_2010-06-16-0.u35303	Let's figure it out.
ParlaMint-BA_2010-06-16-0.u35304	The President-in-Office of the Constitutional Commission. 32
ParlaMint-BA_2010-06-16-0.u35305	... I got the word, so you're right, Mr. Belkić. It's been missed here. I now call upon the secretary of this committee to take care of this in the future, to write that there was one amendment and that it was not accepted, that sentence is missing here in this report. That day, we were right to tell you, we were in a hurry to make reports, because we ended this committee's session on Monday, and the same day had to be delivered to sign the reports. Therefore, you are right, in this report is standing and this is now an official part of this report that Mr Kalabić has submitted one amendment and that most of the votes this commission has not accepted and that the commission has accepted the text as it is and this is now the official report of the commission corrected by this. And the secretary of this committee: take care of this in the future! That's it, thank you.
ParlaMint-BA_2010-06-16-0.u35306	I would like to thank the chairman of the Constitutional Commission. Here's a chance to welcome Mr. Čolak's justice minister who wants to speak.
ParlaMint-BA_2010-06-16-0.u35307	Thank you, Mr. President. Here, distinguished MPs and MPs, I welcome you all. I would only appeal once more if this law were really important, it's the law. All this stuff we suggested, believe me, it's necessary. We have to, we can't just let them come to us with a judicial exam of those who in practically two years have completed a three-year study and brought us that graduate lawyers, and believe me, they didn't even have those cases from which to take the exam. We have to arrange this area, it would be unserious to leave it like this, and that is why it is necessary for these regulations to be harmonised in BiH. This is what we will demonstrate our seriousness about this very important area, and believe that it is really necessary to harmonize regulations here, and it is also necessary in meeting the conditions for passing a judicial exam to really remove differences about whether someone is coming, I don't know, from one entity, from another entity, because it really doesn't make any sense. I think that in this sense we need to make these most necessary changes that we have proposed. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-BA_2010-06-16-0.u35308	I would like to thank the esteemed Justice Minister Čolak Bariša for a brief or clear explanation. I don't have any more logs. I'm closing the debate. Moving to the 8th point of the agenda: 33 Ad. 8. Proposal for a Law on Amendments and Supplements to the Penal Code of Bosnia and Herzegovina, Proposers: Representatives of the SDPBiH Club, Law No: 01-02-5-31/10 of 21. 4. 2010. (second reading) At the 78th session of the House, held on 25. 5. In 2010, this law was adopted in the first reading. The report was submitted by the relevant Constitutional Judicial Commission 8. 6th and supported the text of the bill and proposed its adoption to the House. I'm opening a debate on the draft law in the second reading. Dear Representative Denis Bećirović.
ParlaMint-BA_2010-06-16-0.u35310	On behalf of the SDP Club, I would just like to conclude that this law has passed twice to the Constitutional Commission, that at the last session of the House of Representatives it was adopted in the first reading without any comment and here today we also find the fact that no amendment has been submitted to this Amendment Law on Amendments and Supplements to Criminal Law. The law therefore concerns the issues of endangering BiH's state independence and the question of insulting the state and its symbols. Since there has been no amendment, but no objections in the debates so far, I expect this law to be passed today. Thank you.
ParlaMint-BA_2010-06-16-0.u35311	Thank you. The next is distinguished representative Šefik Džaferović.
ParlaMint-BA_2010-06-16-0.u35312	I have long thought about the issue of this law before this law was passed in parliamentary procedure. Of course, he was on the Constitutional Commission, and we supported it most of the votes there and adopted it here. I only call upon colleagues to think, therefore, once again about the text of this law and to really try to support that text. I think that by adopting this text in BiH, we would greatly contribute to establishing a constructive political atmosphere, and without a constructive political climate, it is not possible to make constructive steps. A positive climate is needed for positive steps, for negative negative climates. I interpret this law primarily as a law on the trail to establish a positive atmosphere within BiH. Why? Because all those who are going into these values that the law treats and protects through its faceless norm will know that it is punishable and will simply deviate from it. It'll be out of discussion, out of discussion. So this is very important for all of us and I invite you to support this. 34 And I mean those who say these things say it just like, what the people would say, blah, blah, blah. But it's ruining the atmosphere inside BiH. Let's just put it out of discussion once, outside of discussion. I needed to say this about this bill. I think this is his most significant feature. That's it, thank you.
ParlaMint-BA_2010-06-16-0.u35313	Thank you. No more reports, closing the hearing. Moving to the 9th point of the agenda: Ad. Nine. Report by the Commission of the College on an effort to reach agreement on the Proposal for a Law on the Promotion of Small and Medium Enterprises and Entrepreneurship in Bosnia and Herzegovina – Proposer: Council of Ministers of BiH, Law No: 01,02-02-4-12/10 of 28.1.2010. (law in second reading) The report you received, the College did not achieve consent. We decide in the second round on the bill's proposal in the second reading. We're going to the 10th point, Ad. Ten. Report by the Commission on the effort to reach agreement on the proposal for a revised strategy of Bosnia and Herzegovina for the implementation of Annex VII. Dayton Peace Agreement (Strategy in Second Reading)
ParlaMint-BA_2010-06-16-0.u35318	Mr. Chairman, only in two sentences, briefly. My debate at a session of the Constitutional Commission at which I did not support the principles of this law, just because I do not think that we should enter into regulation of this matter, but because we cannot solve this issue so far because we will not understand one thing – that there is no change in this law until we get the position or opinion of the Venice Commission. So far, we have been able to resolve this issue if last time we had adopted a proposal by the SDA to postpone the plea, wait for the position of the Venice Commission, and today we would have that law, which the working group, which Parliament has put in place here in debate, would have discussed. That is why I propose that we (every text must be sent to the Venice Commission) as Home to this text to the Venice Commission, to postpone the statement in the first reading until the position of the Venice Commission arrives, and afterwards to read about this law. I think this is the only way we can just fix this thing. A lot of 36 things don't work in this area. And this isn't how this works out either, but in order to be able to solve this, here's the thing, let's wait until that opinion comes up, and then let's get to the point and see what we're going to do and how we're going to move on. That's the only way we're gonna solve this. Thank you.
ParlaMint-BA_2010-06-16-0.u35319	Thank you. The first vice president, Mr. Beriz Belkić.
ParlaMint-BA_2010-06-16-0.u35320	It would have been good if that were the case, Mr. Džaferović, when it comes to the position of the SDA, if we had listened to something and it would have been settled. It wouldn't have been settled, that's for sure. You see, we have a clear situation now. If nothing, we have a very clear situation right now. Firstly, it is undivided that the existing regulation, therefore the existing law, has not adequately addressed all the issues. After all, we will see when we consider the Central Election Commission report, there are a number of recommendations, a series of views that clearly state that through an analysis of the existing law there are needs to change certain things. And we've had these two attempts, one through the Interresor Group, one through the Council of Ministers, etc. And in January of this year, we did what we did, what Šefik Džarerović was talking about, so the law didn't get through. We've had the official position of the Venice Commission since yesterday. So, the official position of the Venice Commission on a draft that was shot down in January. But earlier in 2008, we also have the position of the Venice Commission on the existing law. In my opinion, there are now all relevant assumptions, indeed all relevant assumptions that now go into one process of complete reconstruction, the inventory of this law, so in a peaceful way, in a peaceful atmosphere, unburdened by this pre-election situation. And that's why we're not gonna support this law today in our first reading. But we ask that the process be opened immediately. When the messengers declare themselves, let them judge. But I think that the Central Election Commission has really now mastered all the data, with all the views and the Venice Commission we have experience here, we have public reactions, which we don't need to underestimate, of course, and I think now we have the conditions to enter into one process that would result in a complete solution, a complete solution. That's why we won't support this initiative today.
ParlaMint-BA_2010-06-16-0.u35321	Thank you. The next is distinguished representative Husein Nanić.
ParlaMint-BA_2010-06-16-0.u35322	I thank you, Chairman. 37 I would like to comment briefly on the proposed solution of this law. I mean, regardless of the comments that were in the last session on this law concerning the time in which this law was proposed, under number one, I don't think this is the time to pass a law like this, no matter what someone says and what they say, and when it's time or when it's not time, how do we do it. We are in full capacity and we can work, however, and each of us personally and politically party to which we belong, in the atmosphere of a pre-election campaign, I don't think it's a good idea to bring regulations that apply to ourselves, which we are chosen and who we expect to be either elected or to create space for someone else to be chosen. Those things that concern us, I don't think it's time to bring it into this, I mean, at this pre-election time. The other thing is here two of the facts that are mentioned, is one that I don't think is true, when the reason why a member needs to be changed is explained, and when it is said that such a situation takes away the right to choose and be chosen. So, the person who gets the ban on running is not taken away from the right to choose, but is taken away by the decision of the competent authority to be chosen, as it does for war criminals, etc. I think that,... and it has been repeated twice at least here, perhaps several times – so it does not take away the right to choose, it can choose but cannot be chosen, because it has violated a certain regulation of the state of which it is an official. And the next thing you know, it's also an explanation that it's a violation of human rights and that someone is chosen if they're given sanctions, but they're leaving again. So if within 60 days he does not remove the causes for which the sanctions have been imposed on him, that candidate is given a sanction of incompetence for running for any function. What does this law essentially mean? So here you are, breaking the laws, breaking the rules, here's 60 days to correct it, and if you don't correct it again, we're going to violate human rights, he won't be able to be chosen again. I really wish there was a bill promoter here to explain these things. Here, in complete contradiction, is an explanation of the law. That's how I understand it. I don't know how you colleagues, if there's any other explanation, but just 60 days you have the right to remove, and if you don't remove, you won't be able to be elected again, and the fundamental intensity of the law to break human rights, to prevent anyone from being chosen. For these reasons, I cannot support this bill and from what Mr. Džaferović said about the opinion itself. And the next thing I really want to say, not because of the media, not because of anyone else, I think politics is an honorable job and that definitely we as people, as people who are in charge of making regulations, we need to bring it in and bring it in a way that makes it a decent job. The general perception of the public that the politician is corrupt, that in a certain way he abuses the position etc., what the media conveys, I do not want to contribute to such a story. I want to make a contribution to the positive story of politicians in general, so also in BiH, and we are witnesses, I have been in politics since '95. It's not a story about me, but we're witnessing that really people who went through politics, eventually end up very rich, very, very rich... with property records and I think that these things should contribute to stopping it and not be made possible, because in that way pay 10,000 marks, it's, I think, for people who want to break regulations, no problem to enter, violate, 38 violates the regulation for three years and then as a pay some financial amount and go back to doing what it does. I don't think we have the right.
ParlaMint-BA_2010-06-16-0.u35323	Thank you. Replica, the esteemed second vice president, Dr. Milorad Živković.
ParlaMint-BA_2010-06-16-0.u35324	I want to believe that Husein Nanić doesn't think so and that he accidentally said it, but I don't think it's right to compare that someone can't be chosen with someone who's a war criminal and someone who's in conflict of interest. Especially if under conflict of interest and by politicians, you only think of MPs and delegates. Because, as we have seen, ministers who can also be politicians, and are politicians, are not in conflict of interest or are in conflict of interest, and after that can be re-elected, because the law has made only MPs if they are in conflict of interest by the Central Election Commission to be punished for not being elected. And you're putting them in the same basket with the war criminals that the Law of Elections said they couldn't be chosen. I don't think it was an appropriate comparison. I don't think that's the way to talk. So, a man who has a girlfriend he's seen twice in his life, once he's asked his daughter, the second time he's married, he's in conflict of interest, because his father-in-law won't leave the board of directors of a utility company, and he's now in the same position as a war criminal. I don't think that's what you meant, but you said it awkwardly.
ParlaMint-BA_2010-06-16-0.u35325	Thank you. Replica, the esteemed representative Husein Nanić.
ParlaMint-BA_2010-06-16-0.u35326	I thank you, Chairman. Here, anyway, if I'm understood this way, I apologize because I've really mentioned it as a principle. And, so, I apologize if that's how I'm understood, and on the other hand, I absolutely agree with what you said about ministers being treated and treated in the same position and that the law treats them that way.
ParlaMint-BA_2010-06-16-0.u35327	Thank you. The next is Honourable representative Selim Bešlagić.
ParlaMint-BA_2010-06-16-0.u35328	The Honorable Chairman, respected colleagues and colleagues, conflict of interest is an interesting topic, but it is interesting because we have an existing law and under this existing law we all 39 who are running must be fulfilled, I would say, a large collection of data in which the election commission is now a matter of whether we have given it to assess whether we are in conflict of interest. And I think it's a good thing if this commission does it before the election. It is illogical that Mr Savi Erić is sentenced to a conflict of interest six months before the term of office expires. And that the sentence to Mr Hadža Jovan Mitrović is imposed on the punishment of conflict of interest in half the term in which we do not agree that it is in conflict of interest, which in other words means that this law should be amended. It needs to be coordinated that this applies to all civil servants and to all those who enter politics. I agree, I absolutely agree with what Živković has just said, we cannot only apply the law to MPs, let's say, and MPs in parliaments. It must be factual for all those institutions that are elected and set up. That's why I think maybe we should, I say, simply, that God has a chance to give the Electoral Commission a chance to evaluate these candidates today if they're in conflict of interest. I think it's impossible and we'll get back to the situation when the elections are over and you'll again when it's over, addition and confiscation, it's one two years, and then you'll start with a conflict of interest and in the next term we'll probably have here in Parliament that you express a sentence that should be preventive, so before we go into the elections, you'll give us consent whether we can run or not. I therefore believe that this law should observe this as you have said, in one context of a broad law which would clearly define a conflict of interest, the level of who is in this law and the way this conflict of interest is determined before we hold elections or join elections, whether it is legislative functions, whether it is electoral functions in Parliament. And that's why I join those who support the making of this law but let's say, in a quieter atmosphere. Thank you.
ParlaMint-BA_2010-06-16-0.u35329	Thank you. Next is Honorable Representative Momčilo Novaković.
ParlaMint-BA_2010-06-16-0.u35330	Dear Mr. Chairman, esteemed colleagues and colleagues, I will support this law in my first reading, although I think it is contrary to the Convention on Human Rights. But I'll support it so that the amendment can act on Article 1 of this law. I mean, if it doesn't come to that, then I won't uphold the law. I will not support any law that in any way enables the ban on running in the elections without the Constitution being defined. So, except where it's defined by the Constitution. We last did law on preventing conflicts of interest. We worked it in a peaceful atmosphere. And when we came here to the Dom, then we turned him down in a restless atmosphere. And that restless atmosphere made us those who, of course, have any interest, mean any interest in whether their associations are diverse, non-governmental, governmental, governmental, governmental, like this, so they have an interest in making out of these 40 institutions a battlefield... where parliaments and NGOs are fighting. That's absolutely illogical. So we said, come on, we're going to ask the Venice Commission, even though we have the Venice Commission's position in 2005, someone made that clear. But here's what we're gonna look for one more time, so we got it one more time. And yet we will not change this law in a calm and restless atmosphere because the simple and unfortunately certain provisions of this law are also used as tools for political reckonings. And that's the essence, and not just political accounts between parties, but political accounts between individuals in NGOs because they failed as politicians. And there's a lot of them in these NGOs. I needed to say this as a man who was at the head of this task force and as someone who stood up all the time in the task force for a completely different approach to this issue and as someone who had reached consensus with other members of the task force on those provisions that later became controversial. So we had an absolute consensus in the working group on provisions that later became controversial. And of course, this law should be combined with certain provisions of the Electoral Law, which gives the Election Commission the right to give these measures to end the mandate to us MPs, and does not give us the right to express them to ministers and others. And we've changed this election law and we haven't changed those provisions, we've left them under pressure again, I don't know who and I don't know why. So I'm going back to that first sentence, so I'm going to support the law in the first reading just to get into the amendment phase and I'm going to have an amendment that will be identical to the course proposed by the Working Party for conflict of interest. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-BA_2010-06-16-0.u35331	Thank you. Replica, distinguished representative Šefik Džaferović.
ParlaMint-BA_2010-06-16-0.u35332	You see, Mr. Novaković, I think that bringing the conflict of interest issue to this one norm in BiH is not about the complete problem or the essence of the problem that we have in BiH. This is one of the serious problems, which coincides with human rights, and I was exposed to your report, Momo, who you had as an inter-resor working group, voted on the Constitutional Commission, which is why I was exposed to the criticism of the public, but it didn't bother me at all because I thought I was right, but there was no power to bring the procedure to the end. And I was headed by a group that changed this law in 2008, and it was successfully completed here in Parliament. And that was the first phase of reforming the process. What bothered... every law to be delivered must go to the Venice Commission and should go. That's the attitude. What bothered the last time that our proposal was accepted and that it went to the Venice Commission. We'd be in position by now if he'd solved this issue. And this isn't the key question. And it's not the only key question. There is no institute of conflict of interest in half of the country today. In RS, this institute no longer exists. There is no RS official who has received more serious sanctions over the past few months. That's the 41 key question that we need to deal with, with this question that should also be present here. Can there be three laws in this area, can there be three institutions? What are we supposed to do in this area? That's the question. Next, who is authorized to initiate the procedure, then who is authorized to participate in the proceedings? We have institutions today: everyone can file an application, but only the Election Commission and the one against whom the proceedings are being conducted can participate. Today is a colorful practice. This is one of the issues that we also need to resolve here, which is also causing a problem in resolving this issue and adopting this law. That's why I say it's best that this law be delivered to the Venice Commission to hear their attitude and their opinion. And if you want me to finally state exactly what I think, I think we're going to have to go back to regulating this issue on the basis of that law that was with the Interressor Working Group, which was led by Mr. Novaković, and the amendments, and once the opinion of the Venice Commission comes, we're going to act on that text and adopt it. That's it, thank you. Because it's much wider, more comprehensive and more searched. This is just one question.
ParlaMint-BA_2010-06-16-0.u35333	Correction of the incorrect allegations, the esteemed second vice president, Dr. Milorad Živković.
ParlaMint-BA_2010-06-16-0.u35334	Of course, honourable MP Džaferović purposely said that there was no such thing as no such thing in the RS, and it was not an accident. I just want to say that there is a law in RS, that it is in accordance with the Constitution and in accordance with the powers of the BiH Constitution that RS has dealt with it in the way she felt it should be resolved. The fact that someone isn't as willing as it is, we can discuss it. But to say that it doesn't exist in RS, I think it's trendy and malicious.
ParlaMint-BA_2010-06-16-0.u35335	Replica, distinguished representative Momčilo Novaković.
ParlaMint-BA_2010-06-16-0.u35336	Thank you, maybe it's good that this is how we started talking, because now it's a little clearer to me why the Interressor Working Group law experienced the fate it had experienced. Maybe that's when we should have said what the main problems were. Of course I'm talking about this law today, and that's why I was only talking about the aspect of this law that we're proposing. We are not opening questions about the conflict of interest law of the Interresor Working Group, because of course we have already ended up in one of the phases. I can think and think in a way that some solutions in the RS are illogical, that the parliamentary commission decides whether or not there is. So each and every one decides mostly, and then people say here is not a conflict of interest and it's not a conflict of interest, although it is a conflict of interest, and the Commission 42 raises its hand and says no, because it decides in a way like any other commission. But that is so, is it done there, is it a happy solution or not a happy solution? I do not advocate such a solution here, nor did I advocate, but I advocate, I am deeply convinced of the respect of law, so when it comes to elected or the right of citizens to have the opportunity to run in all situations, except in the Constitution defined situations. And for that, I don't need a Venice Commission, which is what she told me in 2005... and every time I write to the Venice Commission. After all, we have so much respect for the venecijanski Commission that for two years we have not appointed our man to the Venice Commission and to whom the mandate has expired. That's how much we respect this Venice Commission, whose... attitudes are very much today, but here I respect. People there said we didn't finish it. I just said my position, so I'll support that you could change. If I can't change, I don't see why I would support a solution that remains contrary to the European Convention on Human Rights.
ParlaMint-BA_2010-06-16-0.u35337	Thank you. Replica, the esteemed representative Denis Bećirović.
ParlaMint-BA_2010-06-16-0.u35338	I would like to say that it would be good and for the sake of a stenogram from this session and for the sake of the public that we still have to react here in Parliament today to one of the findings of counterpart Novaković, who, I quote, said 'people in NGOs are there because they failed allegedly in politics'. Regarding this finding, I would like to say that this is neither true nor correct, and I do not think that a parliamentary speaker should be used to discredit NGOs. If someone doesn't know that, then it should repeat that NGOs are an integral part of the democratic environment of every democratic state. The state intends to be a truly democratic state, and in this sense it should also be understood by NGOs that certainly contribute to democratisation of relations in the BiH state. That is why it would be good to pay attention to what we are saying here in Parliament.
ParlaMint-BA_2010-06-16-0.u35339	Replica, distinguished representative Šefik Džaferović.
ParlaMint-BA_2010-06-16-0.u35340	You see, Mr. Živković, I didn't say there was no law in the RS on conflict of interest. Unfortunately, there is also a state law that existed for that part of BiH until the RS law was passed. I said there's no institution of conflict of interest, practically no one. So, there is a law that is contrary to state law, there is a law that regulates this area, which is practically not a law on conflict of interest and there are institutions outside the CEC of BiH that apply this law and that I have not heard in case some RS official was taken away from office, banned from running or given some major fine. That 43 is mostly for BiH state officials. That's what I was talking about and that's the truth. And it's an unsustainable state, we're one state. This issue must be resolved uniquely throughout the country.
ParlaMint-BA_2010-06-16-0.u35341	Replica, distinguished representative Momčilo Novaković.
ParlaMint-BA_2010-06-16-0.u35342	Look, colleague Bećirović, I'm very careful what I'm saying here. If you think you're going to fight me with NGOs, you won't. So I have at least as many contacts with them as you do. But if you want, I can also provide you with a list of those who are in NGOs today who have been on various lists. We can talk about it, but I don't want to, I'm just saying that we've succumbed to the pressure of NGOs with people like that. And I think there are, I think you know there are. After all, gentlemen, here is our esteemed friend Slavko Jovičić was the vice president of a non-governmental organization, elected MP, and he didn't stay there but went to the MP. So, being a man, politically successful, so... from the NGO went into politics. And it was not the only case that he did the other way around, but it was on the list, and it did not pass, and it went into an NGO. I'll list you a few people in local... communities who did so and then founded... various NGOs. And I don't see where I've touched you, Mr. Bećirović, or you're the exclusive protector of the NGO sector. I don't know if there may be a commission that issues certificates and certificates to friends and enemies of the NGO sector. I don't think there's any need to replicate something I haven't brought into context with you or your political party or your political option.
ParlaMint-BA_2010-06-16-0.u35343	Let's move on. So there's really no need to change the subject, so here we go to the NGO sector, but here we go. Mr. Slavko Jovičić, please, are you on this line too?
ParlaMint-BA_2010-06-16-0.u35344	There's no false claim, absolutely accurate quote by Mr. Novaković, I didn't know he was going to mention this, before I applied. So there are also reverse cases where man successfully worked in an NGO and
ParlaMint-BA_2010-06-16-0.u35345	It's not about the debate of the NGO, go back to this law. 44
ParlaMint-BA_2010-06-16-0.u35346	So here, the topic is going to be this - conflict of interest. Today we have a terrible pressure from two NGOs to adopt this law: Transparency and the Humanitarian Law Fund. The flooded media, all possible portals, who follow it -- those thieves, traitors will adopt this, should not be adopted etc. And the replica is about exposure, and I have to mention, as already mentioned, you know that, it's not a political statement, it's not a political action, it's a problem when someone is jeopardizing your life from NGOs with absolutely pointless things. As an NGO from Tuzla saw me, justifiably, with its campers, which I will not, because for me the campers of the sanctuary... were Bosniak, called me, I would be in front of the prosecution, and I showed up there as a man and they wrote - Chetnik Slavuj, MP of Parliament, joined the Chetnik group that is protesting in front of the court today. And then after that salva insults my address telephone, e-mail, blocked my e-mail to Parliament. So let's get this straight once, unfortunately, we don't have a law on the work of NGOs, because we have three things that we can't interfere with and we'll never get them settled: the justice system, the work of NGOs, journalists. And I don't want to go anywhere, right now, to get involved in these three things because I'm giving everybody support. They're being attacked, by anyone in these, not that you no longer have a political career, the question is, how are you going to keep your head after such attacks by that organization that has been calling me for days? Well, if I was a Chetnik, at least I had an alibi that I couldn't be, if I wanted to, 44 months in camps, and the war lasted 42, so I didn't have time to be and I wanted to, so it was impossible physically, and I didn't want to. There, let me put it this way. So I want to demystify it here, I'm famous, I support NGOs, but normal people who work with us to make a normal country. But if you have NGOs that say 'don't do the list', don't do this, don't do that, and tomorrow's statement, 'Parliament didn't do anything to get a visa-free regime? Well, now I really see which NGO and in whose interest it works, who's funding it, and I'm saying that's a conflict of interest, too. ... Shall we take care of their interest? Here, I advocate: anything possible from the MPs to prevent everything, so if possible, bring the law that I sleep in the other room and my wife in the other, I will honor it. But don't make a joke. They're the only ones who can't honor anything. When I say to them, NGOs. So let's also sort out the area, so that it doesn't say - Belkić was in Parliament today or we were, an NGO, in Parliament there are no MPs. Why didn't you come, I was sitting in the office, no one asked for me, they'd have coffee with me. So, countless things, and there's conflict of interest. Let's spread it out to everyone, everything to turn it on. Well, in the conflict I, I said in conflict with myself, who's going to fix it. Well, let's sort out who's in conflict with us. And that doesn't mean attacking NGOs, don't get me wrong, I'm supporting them, but don't, people, complicate the situation in the country where you're looking for: don't make a list, don't go to elections. This mob, the gang needs to be stopped, don't vote for them they've destroyed the state! There, they saved her from NGOs. The Central Election Commission, whichever of us you see here be on the list all cross over there and put these from NGOs and make the country and I will come before Parliament, not strike hunger but hold the biggest transparency – bravo for saving the country! Thank you very much. 45
ParlaMint-BA_2010-06-16-0.u35347	You spent one minute more, remember. Mr. Živković, discussion.
ParlaMint-BA_2010-06-16-0.u35348	Thank you. I want to say that the law so far is called the Law on Conflict of Interest in the Institutions of BiH and we as MPs here who are discussing this law, and as regards the BiH institutions, we need to discuss this law, to leave what entities are discussing and about their problems, and our laws, that those parties that have their representatives in entities discuss it in competent places, to discuss it, because then, if we start to deal with all the affairs that do not concern us, we will take the job of those who need to deal with it. There is a procedure proposing that this law be annulled, there is a procedure assessing the constitutionality of such a law, and I think it would be good for us to start doing that business here that we have and concerning BiH-level institutions. We in the College have been thinking about how to get out of this situation. We would suggest a conclusion, if you agree, common which we will formulate: that members of our inter-resor working group who dealt with this law, in accordance with the guidelines received by the Venice Commission, propose a draft law. I don't know how operationally possible this is, I don't know how operationally possible it is to make that decision again, because it's an interrest working group, and it's about the House of Peoples and the Council of Ministers, members of the Election Commission, so we here as a representative home can only be in charge of our members, and now we need to decide which direction. Allow the College to now close the debate of this point so that we can try to form that conclusion and then propose it here.
ParlaMint-BA_2010-06-16-0.u35349	Here, you heard, this is still about some initiative going on, so things don't fit completely. Here, I don't have any more reports. Finalising debate on item 12. Moving to point 13. Ad. 13. Proposal for a Law on Census, Households and Apartments in Bosnia and Herzegovina 2011 – Proposer: Temporary Commission, Law No: 01-02-9-37/10 of 24. 5. 2010 (first reading) Remembrances for, we're at 78th session, 25th. 5, found that the proposal for a law is being considered in accordance with the ordinary procedure. The Constitutional Commission delivered its opinion. Also, the Joint 46th Commission on Economic Reform and Development has delivered its opinion on principles. The Directorate for European Integration has also delivered an opinion to us. So here I am opening a debate on the Bill's proposal for a census, households and apartments in Bosnia and Herzegovina in the first reading. Here you go. Mr. Branko Dokić as a promoter, I suppose.
ParlaMint-BA_2010-06-16-0.u35351	Thank you, Mr. Chairman. No, I'll speak on behalf of the promoter, and not as a promoter, the Proposer is the Temporal Commission who did the job.
ParlaMint-BA_2010-06-16-0.u35352	On behalf of the motionary, I apologize.
ParlaMint-BA_2010-06-16-0.u35353	It's all written to you and maybe it's best for these, let's line up, three or five minutes to shut up and don't say anything, because anything that might be said could cause different discussions. _________(?) [[no microphone turned on]] Well, I thought I'd stand and say no, but I won't. I think we got the law at the end, after a long time of work, which is fully in line with European standards and recommendations, which fully respects the mandatory criteria of the European standard, but has also respected the recommendations that are common... to apply in countries like BiH. Some members of this law are also the result of the necessary compromise, because without compromise, there are no final solutions anywhere, not in other environments, and especially in BiH. The law will allow us, if we adopt it, to project our future, our economy, our social programmes, etc., based on realistic facts, not on a variety of prejudices. The law will define many things towards the future, break away from the past, and I am convinced that it is of general benefit to all BiH citizens, for both its entities. I don't want to say how significant this will be from the point of view... some sort of performance and image of BiH in the world. I don't think anyone wants BiH to be one of the few countries that won't have a list. And once again, it is very important in the election campaign itself to see the adoption of this law and as a significant message that an agreement in BiH is possible on issues that are very sensitive to political nature, such as the question of the census. In this context, I would really like to and recommend that all MPs today support this law in their first reading, and then we will see through the amendment phase to what extent and where it can be fixed. 47
ParlaMint-BA_2010-06-16-0.u35355	Ekrem Ajanović.
ParlaMint-BA_2010-06-16-0.u35356	Mr. President, colleagues and colleagues, every country and BiH should make a census and have some insight into its population and use it for economic and other needs, and there is no dispute. However, in my court, this law, which was proposed, I could freely call it a rotten compromise or rather another hybrid who no one knows in this room until it's over, what kind of monster is going to give birth to such a law. We all swear to return the people to their hearth, swear to spend aneks vii.. The Dayton Agreement, we swear that in BiH everyone has the right to live in the place where he wants to live, and in this law we violate and take away all those rights. From the first basic right to the home, then the right to life, so, if you will, rights to the soul. For example, imagine just where there are definitions in Article 2 that people will list themselves who live in a specific place for 12 months, so they say, even those who are in some rehabilitation, and nowhere is it mentioned that 80 or 82 thousand families will be listed in a strategy that has given a written statement that they want to return to their hearths. This law disputes them and this law and these definitions do not allow them to do so. Now, if we go from that assumption, then I doubt the good intentions of those who talk and work one another, I doubt those who say they support the return, and in this way make it impossible, so before the census of any population lasts... and it's not listed to last one year, but it lasts for at least 10 years. So that list data lasts at least 10 years. And in those 10 years, if I'm not listed in a certain municipality, in a certain local community, in a certain part, then how are they going to plan that I can have school, that I can have health care, that I can have the way, that I have the asphalt, etc. So from this point of view, I believe that this law is very incorrect, is not meaningful and is particularly not adapted to the conditions in which BiH is located. Here is mentioned, says the first reference date of at least 12 months of life continuously in its place of residence, with the intention of staying there for at least a year more. In what way can we even hypothetically say that someone who lives for a year, 12 months in one place, that he will stay for another year in that place? It's a hypothesis, it can't be, there's no practical benefit, there's no practical possibility of knowing, unless someone says, "I'm saying I'm going to stay another year." There's no other way to determine that. And in this law there are such members. Furthermore, it means enough just a statement from the host that he will remain alive in it. If we look at some other members, here's an example. Article 7(3) says: 'Civil persons on temporary work in another country may be registered on condition that they do not live abroad for a year or longer.' This is a shame, human shame. 48 We did not provide a home for certain people who had it before the war, who had their country, their home, our place of residence, we did not allow it to return, and we now exclude it with this way of censusing the population. On the other hand, we allow the census, right in one member, says, "The list of nomads, strays is allowed." So we take care of nomads and strays, but we don't care about those people... who are in one way or another expelled from certain areas, and even if they went on their own fearing or fearing war and not wanting to participate in it. We exclude them from the list, which in any case does not contribute to the goodness of this law. Here in Article 9, there is a point 2, which is also catastrophic, says: "The list also collects... data on households that have owned land and/or livestock or have been engaged in agricultural production in the last 12 months until the day of the census." So we go everywhere only with people up to 12 months, and what about those people who have land and their land is mined, and we know that there are over a million square meters or miles (now I can't exactly say) of land that isn't cleared from mines. We can't sign up or use this land for agricultural farming, and thus exclude people from the ability to deal with agriculture and to sign up at all in the address book of agricultural land. So, basically, this law is directed against those we need most to respect, against those that we need most to account for and against those for whom we are tasked to return them to their hearths, to be listed as citizens of this country, to be listed as their property, to be listed as their home. Because if their home is broken, if it's burned, if it's this, it can't sit in that house for 12 months and wait, as it says in the description of a particular formulation, I quote, but perhaps not true, it says 'who spends his daily vacation in the given place'. Is that when a man goes to Jahorin and spends this daytime vacation either at Igman or White House?
ParlaMint-BA_2010-06-16-0.u35357	Mr. Ajanović, we're discussing the principles of the law, you've gone into a lot of detail.
ParlaMint-BA_2010-06-16-0.u35358	It is, therefore, all of these principles, these very principles of the laws that have been made here, they are directed against the people that we need most to help. And that's why I, as an individual, am going to finish, I think this law is not good and that the law is harmful to BiH.
ParlaMint-BA_2010-06-16-0.u35359	Replica, Momčilo Novaković.
ParlaMint-BA_2010-06-16-0.u35360	And you see, if I hadn't heard this discussion, I wouldn't have believed this was said in this House. I thought that the purpose of this law was to list the population, the households and everything else, and then I heard that the aim of this law was to demining, so that the purpose of this law was to return, so that 49 of this law was to move souls, reincarnation. Guys, I can't believe it. ... I'm thinking of discussing, I'm not going to discuss this law because everything you'd discuss is pointless if we had attitudes like this. Look, please, today we are discussing the principles of the Bill of Lists, which one may like or not like. Last time I said, if we're not going to get rid of the 400 million commitment by law, I'm going to get rid of it right now and we don't have a commitment to that 400 million and this million square miles of undetermined area and I don't know what else. I really respect everything you said that was the case, but it has nothing to do with this list law, but nothing at all. And all I respect is that the problem isn't that 140-150 thousand people came back, and they want to come back. I didn't think we'd be changing people's citizenship on the list, and now it turns out we're changing people's citizenship on the list. I think we've settled it with some other law, it turns out this is what we're dealing with, and, I don't know, some other set of things. I have to say that... we don't really understand why some of us here are pushing the emergency list and this law, and the other at all costs won't have that list executed. Nor do I know what they will not, nor do I understand what we are pushing to pass.
ParlaMint-BA_2010-06-16-0.u35361	I'm sorry you don't understand. Velimir Jukić.
ParlaMint-BA_2010-06-16-0.u35362	Here, in fact, the correction of one false quote is that we would not talk about some measures that are not really such, therefore orderly size, so one million square kilometers around the surface of the Balkan Peninsula, the Sava River, the Danube River to the mouth of the sea, what is down south of that. So there can't be that much space or minivan, or any one in BiH's space. It's about some other measures, not a million square miles, that's all.
ParlaMint-BA_2010-06-16-0.u35363	Okay, replica Ekrem Ajanović.
ParlaMint-BA_2010-06-16-0.u35364	Like this, I'm going to replicate to my colleague Novaković, who I see that things just happen for one reason, he probably didn't understand the purpose of my speech and what the purpose of it was. And in order for him to understand it better, and to see it, let him read Article 9(2), which says that this census of the population and the land will be made to create an agrarian map based on it. So... my thinking is that you have to write down everything, every property, and even that property that's mined, that's the goal. And not to say now that this law requires us to demining. ... That's what you know and that's a different story. There's nothing to do with your replica on my... The second thing, the purpose of my speech is that we need to find definitions that will allow every man who wants and who has made a statement that he wants to come back, here's not going to talk about those people who haven't made a statement that he's not coming back, that he has to be listed in a certain way that he's a resident of a particular place where he wants to go back. Because if it isn't, then everything else is just this story for nothing. We want people back, and we don't plan resources, because if we don't, if in one municipality we list 50 that there are 45,000 people, and we didn't list those 5,000 who have declared that they're coming back, then you don't have, that list doesn't serve anything, because you can't predict the funds for schools, roads, electricity and everything that those returnees need. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-BA_2010-06-16-0.u35365	For the next half hour for the SZBiH, we go in turn, Azra Hadžiahmetović. The Republic has Branko Dokić.
ParlaMint-BA_2010-06-16-0.u35366	Well, if you'll excuse me, Mr. Chairman, so I don't miss or misread anything, I'll also use my glasses. I don't want to give qualifications, which is why someone has this or that attitude, but here's the story of coming back and condemning those who, like advocating a return, and by supporting this law, are working against it, it's really groundless. We don't, by this law, how can I say, return those who either don't want to or want to come back, but this law creates these assumptions. I just want to read to you what it says, so I'm not going to be intruding. Article 8 states what will be listed so, among other things, 'in place of residence, place of permanent residence of the person at the time of the '91 census. in the year, whether the face was refugees from BiH, whether the face was displaced in BiH, whether the person had a formal-legal status of the displaced person and whether he intended to return to the place where it was displaced, the settlement of BiH from which the person moved, the years and the state from which the person moved, the reasons for the migration to BiH', etc., etc. I don't want to comment on anything right now because, again, it can cause different... On the other hand, the debater had previously needed to take into account what is the mandatory criterion of EUROSTAT So, those 12 months and all that about 12 months, it was literally prescribed from EUROSTAT on the other hand, what was not necessarily covered by this law, so all the diaspora in BiH will be listed. And that's why, I've answered the line, and I absolutely won't anymore, because I can't accept the fact that there are stories here that have nothing to do with the law, even those stories that the law has to do with, and here they're having problems like someone's trying to deceive and run a double-arshish policy.
ParlaMint-BA_2010-06-16-0.u35367	Remzija Kadrić, replica.
ParlaMint-BA_2010-06-16-0.u35368	I thank you, Chairman. So, I can't help but comment on and add this replica to what MP Momčilo Novaković had when he replicated to Professor Dr Ekrem Ajanović. So he did replicate to him in a rather inappropriate manner and in many ways in a very rude way when he was trying to tell the honourable MP, who is the oldest MP here, that he did not understand the law, that he did not read the law. So here Professor Ajanović was talking about the law and when it comes to accessing agricultural land, he said it is impossible to process 51 lands if... the land is mined. In that part, it is really not correct to replicate the MP in such a way, especially Professor Ajanović, who is one of the oldest MPs here and thus put some things that do not really suit him.
ParlaMint-BA_2010-06-16-0.u35369	Azra Hadžiahmetović, discussion.
ParlaMint-BA_2010-06-16-0.u35370	Thank you, Chairman. Let me, after this intense discussion and replica, also state the position of the SBiH MPs' Club on the debate on the principles of this law. So here we are in the parliamentary procedure and during and so far debates on this topic and initiative and before the concrete proposals of the laws that have been in this Parliament for a long time and in the joint commission and trying to find some solutions, more or less to all MPs and in this Parliament and especially colleagues and colleagues in this commission were also known views of the party, but here, let me say why we will not support the principles of this law. During our work, we have insisted on the consistent application and inclusion of binding elements in Parliament's procedure on the part of the Council of Ministers and on the proposal of the Council of Ministers. Shall I wait, Chairman? Well, I'll wait... So we insisted on consistent application and inclusion of the binding elements prescribed by EUROSTAT. Of course, by referring to the definitions, or criteria prescribed by EUROSTAT, making sure that we are a country which is also on the path to EU membership, that both the EU and, in particular, BiH need statistics, that we need in particular in the context of our approximation to EU membership, the use of both EU funds and a series of other benefits and advantages that they provide as an analytical basis for the management and creation of different types of policies within BiH and in particular in the context of the European path. So, I would especially like to remind you that the list primarily refers to statistical data and we have as well observed this list category, including the use of data obtained by the list exclusively for statistical purposes. I must say that we also experienced satisfaction here at a prepared and well-organised meeting, that is, a presentation that was appropriated for the visit of one of the directors of EUROSTAT here for the members of this commission who worked on it. And we've just received confirmation of our views. I would like to mention that from the very beginning we have insisted that the list law include, therefore, all definitions, criteria and all binding elements that all European countries should include in the list category, i.e., exclusively refer to what is mandatory for all European countries, including by bypassing all non-binding elements this time, precisely for reasons which have been presented in a different way so far. Let us mention, among other things, that we were against including elements about ethnic, religious, etc. here in the list. belongings, as we felt it would also avoid the labelling of the ethnic changes that occurred in BiH over the last 15 years. Exactly what the chairman of this commission who worked to prepare this law mentioned that 19 of the 36 European countries had predicted a category of ethnic, religious, etc. belongings. But I will remind you that it is not known that in either of these 19 countries the ethnic structure is used as the basis for forming power, therefore for administrative structures. If we were right, it gave us, unfortunately, 52 here's to mention,... and the argument that was made here during the debate on the procedure that was conducted at the last session of this Parliament and the items which were related to certain elements that were related to use, so not for statistical purposes but for administrative-political purposes. And that is, among other things, the reason why we have been consistent from the very beginning with the BiH census being carried out only and exclusively on the basis of the definition of criteria and including only binding elements prescribed by EUROSTAT for all European countries, and this time bypassing everything that is not mandatory to avoid traps and open issues, thinking, problems etc., which we are dealing with here as a consequence of recent events in these areas. And here, that's among other things why we're going to be against the principles of this law, that is, the law in the first reading.
ParlaMint-BA_2010-06-16-0.u35371	Sadik Bahtić.
ParlaMint-BA_2010-06-16-0.u35372	Thank you. Here I am going to relate to this discussion and I'm going to quote here today from the media: 'list for new tors'. So, this new census of the population, planned for next year, fences around the tolls could become more and more powerful than reinforced concrete, that's quite ok. in this proposed law. And certainly colleague Novaković is, it is known what would be the goal of such a proposed law,... compromises. The most impact would be avoided and displaced faces that could not vote, and those who are.... Croatia in BiH and now live in Krajina there, with me in Prijedor and Banja Luka, everyone could vote who lives there. It's a change of... a picture of the population. The list also needs a colleague of Azra, president of the club, which she explained nicely. I answered the discussion to remind my esteemed colleagues from the U.S.A. how consistent they are. At its 9th session of the Central Committee, they made a decision, everyone can see it there, says: 'SDA supports the census with all relevant economic and social indicators and without a statement of ethnic, religious and... bh. Citizens, because we believe that they are not relevant and necessary at the moment. The BiH population is still on the move both inside and outside the country." They also adopted the 2009 Return Programme. – 2014 and SDA: it takes a billion KM, in 2009 200 thousand, in 2010 it takes 300,000, all of these are their documents. Implementation of Annex VII, I don't know what happened now in the meantime with a colleague from the U.S.A. that they did so... and so now they're heartily supporting colleagues from the RS. And I understand colleagues from the RS, and I don't understand colleagues from the SDA. Thank you.
ParlaMint-BA_2010-06-16-0.u35373	We'll probably hear it now, Bakir Izetbegović.
ParlaMint-BA_2010-06-16-0.u35374	So I think you could understand us after those messages you received from high-ranking EU officials, who unequivocally say BiH will not be able to continue the path 53 to the EU if it does not make a list when everyone else does. And you know this no, the simplest thing is to say, we say no, we don't want state property, we don't want a list, we don't want this, we don't want that. Then you said no to BiH's progress, certainly. In BiH, not only the Bošnjak live, it is worth the courage and the craftsmanship to make compromises that lead this country forward. The easiest way to say no is to blame the others for giving in, and so on. We want this country's progress, we don't want it to stand in place, we want it towards the EU and the NATO Pact this time. And we're going to do everything and in relation to state property, here's what I'm saying right now, what will lead us to the NATO Pact and to the security of the citizens of this country. As I said, the EU is asking BiH to make a list. On the other hand, we don't want to accept the legalization of ethnic cleansing and the segregation of the population, so that's two ouses. Third, we were about what you say not to list data relating to ethnic cultural features, but it's only Bošnjak attitude, and not only Bošnjak live in BiH. So what do we do? Well, then it's worth making a compromise out of it. Article 8 and Articles 40, 41 and 42 have resolved the list of diaspora, that's one thing. The second thing, Article 48 moved the implementation of the census until Annex VII was implemented. And there's about 140,000 more people to come back and we think this is one bottom threshold below which you can't, but still acceptable and good. And the SDA will support this in the first reading.
ParlaMint-BA_2010-06-16-0.u35375	Replica, Sadik Bahtić.
ParlaMint-BA_2010-06-16-0.u35376	Thank you. I respect the discussion and colleagues of Bakir Izetbegović, that they follow and implement the recommendations of individuals from the EC. Also, if all this were to pass here in Parliament, which some individuals of the international community, from Prud, Butmir, are proposing, the question of where would BiH end up with this policy of the SDA that deals with it. However, there are parties and MPs here who will never question such a thing. And you said this well, and now this proposal is the legalization of ethnic cleansing and genocide, Mr. Bakir Izetbegović,...of the cheap. You should tell it openly to the people for which reasons, we can never support it, and now you're trying to get out. Where are the 200 grand in 2009, where are the 300,000 this year to return? He'll never come back. If this law is passed, it's over. What is ethnically cleared will be legalized and we will strike the seal with our hands here in Parliament. Thank you.
ParlaMint-BA_2010-06-16-0.u35377	Remzija Kadrić. The replica, and who?
ParlaMint-BA_2010-06-16-0.u35378	Replica Bakir Izetbegović. 54 So no list of diaspora has been solved by this law. The 40th article reads: "The list of persons living abroad and the logistics of the census will also be used for the list of BiH citizens who live abroad and have a residence in BiH and are absent for more than 12 months." However, in the position (5) 'Entering, control and processing of data and publication of data collected on these persons shall be done by the Agency in conjunction with the entity statistical institutions separately from the list in Article 7 of this Act'. So these faces don't go into the total population, so that's just this list of people living abroad for more than 12 months. And especially this diaspora,... persons... who have no residence and have a BiH citizenship, so they are not treated at all by this law.
ParlaMint-BA_2010-06-16-0.u35379	Replica, Bakir Izetbegović.
ParlaMint-BA_2010-06-16-0.u35380	And where would it all end? Well, it would end up in the EU, Sado Bahtić, that's where it would end, if it were the April package, come on, Bog, adopted here. You'll never achieve the solution you refused back then. From the Prudish Agreement we got a very important thing, it's a solution to the Brcko District. So these were all shifts, God Bog in time what the compromiser SDA wants this country. Not this, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, not if you want a pre-election shootout here, and an Orthodox church that wants to make what's called a state deal. So who will you give your hand to if you don't give the church a hand? What kind of relationship is that, you know, where do you think such a policy leads? No, no, no, in the end you'll say no to the future of BiH,... your no.
ParlaMint-BA_2010-06-16-0.u35381	Sadik Bahtić, replica.
ParlaMint-BA_2010-06-16-0.u35382	Mr Bakir Izetbegović, we are not saying no, no, we are not telling what it is and what puts the BiH state at risk. You're talking about Prud. If Prud had passed by thanks to you, which was written to you, you only read it there, there would have been nothing from the BiH state, there would have been ghetto, Krajina, Zenica, Tuzla. _________(?) [[no microphone turned on]] Well, that's, that's what it says, that's what you signed, that's what you signed in Prud.
ParlaMint-BA_2010-06-16-0.u35384	Please, a little patience, patience a little. 55
ParlaMint-BA_2010-06-16-0.u35385	They signed it, they signed it in Prud, they know that map well, they know everything.
ParlaMint-BA_2010-06-16-0.u35386	Let's listen to each other!
ParlaMint-BA_2010-06-16-0.u35387	And you're this list... in Prud, you need to legalize that Prud, to... hit the seal, you know it well.
ParlaMint-BA_2010-06-16-0.u35388	Just patience.
ParlaMint-BA_2010-06-16-0.u35389	We are all for the European way and for the accelerated. What law did we not vote here for a European path? But we're not for what puts the BiH state at risk, and you've shown it in practice, you've made some moves that have put this country in danger. [[Common discussion]]
ParlaMint-BA_2010-06-16-0.u35390	I have to, I mean, I have to say, here after four years, after four years of working in Parliament right now this is the time and I'm getting nice (Sado, you weren't here four years ago) remembered the time of four years ago. I see you from the SBiH need an election topic and you found it on the list, you were waiting where the SDA will say yes, to you say, well, we don't. Here you have, you have a theme, but unfortunately you missed, you missed, you missed, and now you miss 2006. We, be careful, don't worry about the SDA, the SDA knows which temples, don't worry about anything, but you support us that '91. The year remains as it was achieved in this agreement here as a criterion and after this, it's a key thing and it stands. Well, '91. It's standing, hello, standing, it's not a theme, you missed it, you got to find something stronger. You've missed, you've been playing here, you've been sick, you're no longer on the subject, now the world knows, you've seen the world what it is. What have we received in four years since the amendments here in the BiH Parliament were brought down? Come on, you go ahead, we'll go to the campaign and we'll see. Thank you.
ParlaMint-BA_2010-06-16-0.u35391	It is finished, Mr. Džaferović, after four years, it was wonderful to hear you. Ekrem Ajanović.
ParlaMint-BA_2010-06-16-0.u35392	Mr. President, I'll be very brief. There are some people here who care about what happens to the SDA or, we'll say, with SBiH or with SNDS, their right, their right, their right, is 56 right. However, I am taking care of BiH as a state and I believe that... if this law passes, it will give birth to a hybrid that neither you nor I, dear Džaferović, nor Izetbegović, what it will look like. Because the Dayton Agreement they celebrated has created an even worse hybrid that can't be finished for the next 20 years.
ParlaMint-BA_2010-06-16-0.u35393	Now let's change this a little bit. Mr. Živković, come in.
ParlaMint-BA_2010-06-16-0.u35394	In the last four years, we've seen quite a lot of people like this or something like that, so let's call it quotes, sDA-SBiH squabbles, and they're actually thinking the same thing. And you can't hope that we'll fall for this transparent game where we from SNSD think that you're one for, and the other are against it, and then we'll play with one of you to play the game. You've never been able to do that before, so you won't be able to do this now either. In fact, to narrow down the bill, the SBiH says it will not support the principles of this law and has an argument for that, in which one argument is that Article 8 needs to be abolished ethnic characteristics. Question, why don't you make an amendment in the amendment phase for one thing that you're against? So you're against the list, it's your right to insist on a civil state, to believe that ethnic characteristics should not be listed, and that's your right. It is my right to quote the BiH Constitution, to quote the preamble immediately in front of Article IV, where Bošnjak, Hrvat and Srbin are said to be constituent peoples along with others, etc. etc. And the right to be clear about what this Constitution gives me. So it's your right to force your idea, but it's my right to quote the Constitution and ask for the same right in this Constitution. And don't hide behind it, but honestly tell me that you're not in favour of a census and that you're not going to invest a single amendment in which you just need to delete it in Article 8. On the other hand, we have the SDA at the last session when we talked about principles, or whether the law will go down by 127, by 126, where Mr Džaferović said it would not change either in this law, so there is no amendment. If the SBiH doesn't respect the principles, it doesn't support the principles, if the SDA won't change the letter of 'a' to the amendments, what do we have left? It remains to say that if there is no amendment there is no law, so let's bring it down immediately, let's take it down now, let's not talk about arguments why I think they need amendments. Because if you want arguments, let's talk to the arguments. Article 48 is absolutely unnecessary and not well written. You can't say with a vague attitude in which no one can say when Annex VII will be respected, what it means to honor Annex VII, and who's going to say that Annex VII is respected, put into the law of matter solved by the Constitution. The constitution has resolved this matter, with the Constitution of BiH and the entity constitution, there is no need to put it into law. To tell me why in Article 16 it is written that the list will be done and that these data will be used exclusively for statistical purposes, and then in Article 8, you state how it will be used in other things? Therefore, you have no argument for either one. You have no arguments to break the law in the first reading, because only a simple amendment can you act and you have no arguments to say that the amendment cannot fix this law when you are aware that it can be 57 and that it is inconsistencies and that it is politically inserted by an amendment bypassing the regular procedure through the Council of Ministers which has inserted such or similar legislation here through the Commission, so that it would turn out as MPs from the RS to blame that the law has fallen, because it should not have changed the letter 'a' of any member. We are used to, you know, being guilty, but you have no arguments to say after accepting explanations about what EUROSTAT is after you have accepted reasonable explanations that although it is not mandatory to ethnically view another context, which is that BiH has always had in the past to declare BiH citizen about ethnic characteristics. That all the countries of the former Yugoslavia have added this to their list of lists for 2011 that most EU countries are doing the same, and that BiH's fate is what it says in the Constitution. When you want to talk about arguments, when you want to clear the law from political amendments and demands, you will have the SNSD on the deal, and until then leave your games between SDA and SBiH for an election campaign.
ParlaMint-BA_2010-06-16-0.u35395	It's a vivid imagination. Adem, replica?
ParlaMint-BA_2010-06-16-0.u35396	Thank you, Mr. Chairman.
ParlaMint-BA_2010-06-16-0.u35397	Let's listen to each other! Go ahead, Adem.
ParlaMint-BA_2010-06-16-0.u35398	Mr. Živković, you have no need to interpret what we think or speak honestly. We know what we think and speak honestly and, as we do not tell you to be honest or dishonest, I ask you to refrain from it. Here we are talking about principles, colleague Hadžiahmetović said that we are absolutely for the census and that we are for the list of such... which predicts EUROSTAT and I think that in such an approach that we all agree that the problem arises in the part where it is looking for something a little more. And that's where one selective approach is now being made. Here, I'm speaking without consulting any of my clubmates. If we're putting something that's not binding on EUROSTAT, which is these ethnic and religious definitions, let's put another thing that's also not by EUROSTAT, let's write down all the diaspora, if we're principled. Here I am asking my colleagues from the U.S.A. what is the compromise here, which means what is the request that the U.S.A. asked for in these negotiations or the talks on the law that was passed, so they accepted the rest? What of their goals is respected here in the law, what has a compromise been made here? I am in favour of compromise, indeed, here, if they insist on colleagues from the RS and colleagues from parties with the Croatian omen to put those ethnic elements on, here I accept. But please accept our request that all diaspora be listed equally as other citizens in BiH. Here, to be fair, I think it's a legitimate request and correct and to agree that we have the law. So that's where we're different. We're for what's a European standard and it's a minima because we haven't moved it anywhere yet. On the contrary, all the laws, all the reforms we have made, we have not reached what is a European standard, because we are specific. Here we are specific because of national and 58 religious and other specifics and it's a compromise to put on, here we go, but let's put on a diaspora. What's the problem? Doesn't it agree with the principles of EUROSTAT? I think we need to be consistent until the end...
ParlaMint-BA_2010-06-16-0.u35399	Let's get on with the replicas. Živković.
ParlaMint-BA_2010-06-16-0.u35400	I have the right to interpret the principles that the parties have stated here and the principles were that the SBiH did not support the principles of this law and would vote against. I asked: if you are now making a compromise proposal, there are options for compromise proposals, why break the law in principle. So put in those two tiny little amendments, say what you think, so you can't be against the principle of the law. Is it wrong for me to interpret your position? I also said that EUROSTAT cannot negotiate with the population on a permanent basis, and I'm not against diaspora, it's listed here. We'll list the diaspora, but I can't put it in the total number. I kept screaming when it wasn't like that for EUROSTAT and I don't have that problem. And the third thing I said about article 48 is unclear. You want to explain this article? We have proposed: in 2014 let this Parliament say that Annex VII has been implemented, since then the list is accounted for, as this would be a clear position of this Parliament and a clear date for that member. You don't want that compromise either. So what are we talking about here? Then let's knock it down right away in the first reading and make sure no one's guilty.
ParlaMint-BA_2010-06-16-0.u35401	Milica Marković, replica.
ParlaMint-BA_2010-06-16-0.u35402	My replica refers to the presentation of counterpart Adem Huskić, but everything I would say was mostly said by Mr Živković. And here we are really in a situation where we say it openly and clearly - are we going to let the law go or are we going to bring it down? Since all the opportunities are that he will not be able to support himself for a variety of reasons, either in phase one or in phase two, it is fair and correct to say, let's take him down, take him down, and let's see who's against the list and who won't support it. But the thing that I answered specifically is the next thing. Mr. Huskić, you just said, you say ethnocultural elements are optional, so they entered this working version of the law, so let's introduce a diaspora, a diaspora list. Well, Mr. Živković said that no one is slow to register diaspora and it will be listed, but it will not be in the same category as the resident population. That's one thing. And the other thing, you get up to discuss, talk about something, and you haven't read all the material that matters and matters to this bill. You did not read the letter by Stefan File, Oli Ren, which we had all MPs here, where they clearly said in that letter that diaspora could not be the subject of a regular list, or a list where that number would enter the total number of the censused population, because this same diaspora that lives around the world and Europe will be listed in the countries where they currently live. And you don't read all the material and then you lecture us here that we're not going to do something, and you're not really going to read anything, Party 59 for BiH, and you want to tell us in 2006 that 100% of BiH is and now we're listening to BiH not in 100%, but in a minus who knows how much percent. You say that because you regret some laws that have not been passed, which have not been done, which we allegedly do not allow from the RS to pass. And here we see what you do and how you behave. Please tell me you're not going to get the law and get out of this story that we've been struggling on since I don't know when it was in February of the law, when the Council of Ministers delivered the first draft of the law. Since then, these troubles have been around the law. These commissions, these Parliaments, these ones, and they. Say it out loud: you will, you won't. Same as the SDA that says neither dot nor dot can change, and we've entered the regular procedure. The law has entered the regular procedure, the amendment phase is going, and now who is the change phase is irrelevant and irrelevant. I mean, it's really someone here trying to plant something and say that they will, how they say they will, and it all comes down to not accepting what they're talking about. Thank you.
ParlaMint-BA_2010-06-16-0.u35403	The first deputy chairman, Mr. Beriz Belkić. Here you go. Is it a replica?
ParlaMint-BA_2010-06-16-0.u35404	So, I will really try to concentrate on just what the agenda points are and to repeat for a thousand times when it comes to the position of the Party for BiH, ignoring everything people have been saying at the expense of the Party for BiH. So, from the very beginning, so three or four years ago, we're going to say, and the freshest, therefore, in this commission that's been preparing this, the Party for BiH clearly represents its position, and we weren't part of the attempts and arrangements of the creation of the law beyond our views. We said, "We don't participate." And why are you dragging the BiH Party into this whole story? So we have said that the list is precisely because of these situations only on the elements of EUROSTAT, including standards that apply to diaspora. So all the time and all we're saying is two things all the time. It is possible that in this fierce debate of replicas, etc., we may have come out of this context through the debate, but our position is completely clear, written, announced, very simple. And we're not part of the deal, Mrs. Marković. You couldn't count on us. Our representative Professor Dr Azra Hadžiahmtović clearly presented our views there to you and was not practically part of the team that proposed this. So, here you go, the three parties that you've agreed to announce that you have a deal, go ahead and make it happen.
ParlaMint-BA_2010-06-16-0.u35405	Replica, Adem Huskić, please.
ParlaMint-BA_2010-06-16-0.u35406	Replica is a colleague of Marković. 60 She said in her replica on my replica before that I did not read the materials sent by Mr. File. I don't know how you know I didn't read the material. Milica
ParlaMint-BA_2010-06-16-0.u35407	/no microphone turned on/
ParlaMint-BA_2010-06-16-0.u35408	Well, speaking against that letter is my right to speak. Why should I agree with him? And why, why do you have the right to make me say what he thinks? Milica
ParlaMint-BA_2010-06-16-0.u35409	: [[no microphone turned on]]
ParlaMint-BA_2010-06-16-0.u35410	Yes, they are to you, too.
ParlaMint-BA_2010-06-16-0.u35411	Please refrain.
ParlaMint-BA_2010-06-16-0.u35412	So it's incorrect to say whether I read something or not. I did read it, but she doesn't know if I read it. I never would have told her if she hadn't read anything if I didn't know she hadn't read it. Second, she said, "Let's say you don't want the law." And now she's begging us or coercing us to say we don't want the law. And we say we want the law all the time, but we don't want the law that you want, and that's where we argue. I said we only argue over that part that's not binding. That's all it is. And that's what the whole story is about. And the whole story is whether it's mounted and reasoned. I accept your arguments, because of the specificity of BiH. But BiH's not specificity is just that it is multinational, multicultural, etc. Earth. The specificity of BiH is that there was aggression, that there were people being expelled, that there were several hundred thousand people who were forced out of this country, that there was genocide, that there was a consequence of this genocide, and that, in my opinion and in my opinion, colleagues from the party, we must consider it. And that's what we're looking for. Thank you.
ParlaMint-BA_2010-06-16-0.u35413	Mr. Ajanović, you've spent your lines twice already. Please, you've spent your lines. You've had a replica twice. Halid Genjac, discussion.
ParlaMint-BA_2010-06-16-0.u35414	Thank you, Chairman. 61 I think, of course, that it is perhaps the most significant legislative project this year and, of course, I have full sensitivity to the atmosphere and the moment in which the debate is being held. But with a few words, I think it's important to point out why this law is important, very short. There is no acceleration of the path towards the EU without this law, no census, no macroeconomic policies, no sectoral policies, no employment strategy, no use of second-stage funds, these remaining three pillars of very generous IPA funds, no funding for regional development, specifically based on data on regions, etc. etc. Not to mention that without the results of the BiH census will not be part of the world's statistical exchange and with all the consequences that this means. I point this out for reasons to point out the importance of investment in will to achieve a solution. So, if we're aware of this, then we understand why we should try to find a solution, as far as possible. And speaking of the principles of the law that is before us, I think it's important to clarify some things and I don't think it's a good idea for them to go public with some of the wrong messages. All definitions that are within the law, absolutely all definitions, have been taken over from recommendations made by the Conference of European Statistics, prepared by the UN European Economic Commission and the Statistical Office of the European Communities. So all the definitions are taken from there, from what the resident is... and from what's 12 months, and to what's the list of nomads and that must be written down, what doesn't have to be, what has to be done, etc. So everything absolutely and the principle of the law is methodologically and conceptually based on recommendations, on recommendations. Very often, the concept of European standards and these recommendations is marred. The European standard is a description of ethnicity, as most European countries do. But the recommendations classify binding, i.e. inclusive and non-inclusive data. These include: name, last name, employment, profession, education, etc. etc. And they are also binding on all countries for reasons to achieve compatibility, comparability and mutual exchange of data between all those that are part of the European and world statistical system. And about these criteria, about the definitions in that area, there are no disputes and we all really agree and we all agree that it's necessary. And the European Commission says: that's what we need. We don't need data on ethnic structure and religiousity. It's not binding. You can do it if you want, it's a European standard, not necessarily, if you want to do it. If you don't want to, you don't have to. But if you want to do it, you have to make a political deal about it. And other definitions about the list of agricultural holdings where it is said that a special list will list agricultural holdings, this is just the preparation of the address book, etc. And I don't think there's any need to be a dispute or confusion here. Also, it is a very clear view and there are very clear recommendations about the list of diaspora because it is based on these definitions, what is resident, what is uninhabitable Can't a resident who's been present for about 12 months and more than that in two places to list. He can only be listed in one place for these statistical needs. And therefore, that is the definition that applies in all countries. But countries may, in accordance with these recommendations, collect certain particular data from a specific list, a special list, specific means and separate data for their own purposes. And I'll talk about it later. When all of this is summed up, the law is really done on all these principles that are sought and that ensure that we carry out the list in a way that we can be compatible, comparable and yet 62 by looking at the list, the control lists from EUROSTAT will be present, so that we have a list that is credible, which is relevant and valid. And, on the other hand, there shouldn't be any problem. What's in BiH is really specific. The specificity is that we have another significant number of displaced persons, persons with the status of displaced persons and refugees. The diaspora have all the countries, persons on temporary work and residence abroad, it's not... but our specificity is this aneks vii.. Displaced and evaded faces. Given that fact, therefore, that not all are returned, that there are still those who are not at home, that fact simply has to be respected. So the use of all of this statistical data and all of these facts that are obtained during the census are eventually converted into statistical facts and these data are used by everyone for statistics only. But of course, these statistics and statistics later have very effective effects. If a GDP is obtained in one region, it is, on this basis, a statistical fact, it is for statistics only, but on this basis credits from IPA are granted in that region as much as funds. So these are the very real earthly consequences of these statistical facts from these statistics. Also, our Constitution has a very clear definition: that the structure of the BiH authorities is based... on the ethnic structure of the population, it writes. Many laws define that the structure of employees in these institutions will be based on the list. The entity's constitution defines very clearly, both entities, that the structure of the entity authorities will be based on the ethnic structure according to the '91 census. As long as aneks vii.. It doesn't go completely. Exactly. And those stops don't say when it's going to be, how it's going to be determined when Annex VII is carried out. etc. And there's really some indiscretion, I totally agree. But stopping the entity is exactly what they're saying. Given the fact that not all of us are not binding on the ethnic structure, given that we have this situation with refugees and displaced, that not everyone is at their homes, and given the fact that, according to the constitutions, the government is based on the ethnic structure, one way or another, the key problem that emerged with the ethnic list was possible in three ways. The first way is not to enlist ethnically. Indeed, a number of parties initially insisted on that attitude. So, we don't list ourselves ethnically, we list what we need and we get the list we need. However, the proposal does not have the support of the majority in this parliament, it does not, therefore, pass. The key concern of the ethnic census is that these data could be used as an instrument for legalising the consequences of ethnic cleansing. That's a fact. In order to avoid this, we have the following two options: therefore, to enroll ethnically but also to avoid and displaced faces to the municipality of '91. years to enter the ethnic structure. That was the next proposal. The proposal was not also supported. It is technically very difficult to perform really because of all these recommendations and methods of listing diaspora etc. The third way to sign up ethnically, but not to challenge an incorrect ethnic structure... the consequences, while aneks vii., to sign up ethnically but to say that these results will be applied after the implementation of Annex VII. And that proposal is in circulation. So that's the whole story about it. As far as the diaspora list is concerned, it has been resolved in the way that EUROSTAT's recommendations are made, in particular it is financed, especially the diaspora data, which includes refugees. It will be specially recorded and processed on all elements of the list: from which municipalities, where the municipality, residence, how many abroad it is, etc. 63 The census is the real state of the population on the ground on 31 March, the real situation on the ground on 31 March 2011, the number of inhabitants in the area, on which it is based... A list of diaspora, specially processed in special elements, is a list of diaspora that will be used to develop the diaspora strategies that we want, in order for the diaspora law to be based on relevant facts and, of course, to draw up return strategies. So the list of displaced and diaspora lists are facts that will be used to make strategies. So, to draw up strategies that will need to be implemented. And I think that fact, that possible use of that diaspora data, absolutely legitimateizes the need to write diaspora this way. And finally, let me add, it's very important to point out. So the census has nothing to do with electoral rights or diaspora or displaced persons. Displaced persons and diaspora use electoral rights in accordance with the Electoral Law and no one can challenge them.
ParlaMint-BA_2010-06-16-0.u35415	Eh, replicas. Živković.
ParlaMint-BA_2010-06-16-0.u35416	I had one discussion, one replica, this is another replica. Secretary, in any case, we heard in a ten-minute presentation of everything other than what we asked here to hear, is the SDA ready to go into the amendment phase. If it isn't, come on, people, let's not waste any time. So in those ten minutes, you only had to say one thing: yes, this can be fixed in the amendment phase. If he can't fix it, come on, people, let's get this over with. Article 9. The BiH Constitution says: 'funkcioner appointed to positions in the institutions of Bosnia and Herzegovina, in principle, represent the composition of the peoples of Bosnia and Herzegovina.' And that is all that stands in this Constitution of BiH and nothing more. And that's this constitution that will propose that the SNSD be ratified here solemnly and published in the Official Messenger, if that's the constitution that you say allows for ethnic cleansing to be carried out after the census. This Constitution allows this with this one provision in Article 9. That's impossible. And that what it says in the entity's constitutions now is that you want to put in this list law, that aneks vi should be inserted into the level of state government, although it does not say that anywhere in the BiH Constitution. Why, why put political provisions in this list law? What constitutional provision? So let's rewrite the constitutional provision from Article 9 to the List Act. Can we do that? That's what we did with the Rules of Procedure. Let's do it. We went with a compromise proposal to register the diaspora. People, I don't mind knowing how many of our people there are even though by adding simple, people who are listed in other countries, BiH can get that. It's a waste of money. But here, if that was the request, the compromise SNSD went into that story, he said, let's write it down. And let me say, we didn't vote from the SNSD on this commission for that bill. You don't have this partner in the SNSD that's been said here for this pay phone that a partner in the SNSD has, he's not, because no one in the SNSD voted in favour of this bill. The fact that the principles on this committee are supported is purely from technical matters, that we don't return to this commission every time. And to be clear here, are we going to let this law go in the first reading or not? The BiH party has made it clear - no, the SDA should say if there are no amendments, that we end it here today in the first reading and that no.... We know and we have also found ways that after nothing can be arranged in this House, let 64 sit there, agree, and here by 127 it is finished. Give us a chance to end it, because this is how we waste our time.
ParlaMint-BA_2010-06-16-0.u35417	Let's move on. Drago Kalabić, replica.
ParlaMint-BA_2010-06-16-0.u35418	Well, even though everything has been said here for a long time, it's hard to say something new, but here's the deal Mr. Živković asked the SDA, I think, I can assume that this answer will be positive. I liked Mr Genjac's discussion, regardless of how much he praised the part where he remained unspeakable, I liked the discussion, and I liked Mr Genjac's discussion even more because it was completely the opposite of his story on the Commission. And I like it very much, so that's progress because on the Commission about two or three months ago he talked differently, and it's... good progress. I think there's another step missing and we'll make a solution. It's a simple thing here, you should be aware of who's for this law and who's not. Those who are not in favor of the law should not interfere at all. These are to add up what's for the law, on these principles, whether there's room or not, to do so. Here, this can be seen from these discussions, all the possible explanations and all that's been said and what's been done, I don't know how many times I repeat, that political solutions, whenever political solutions are tried to push through a small door, you know that never worked. It needs to be brought down to a technical question. BiH will have damages, it is quite clear, and those who are claiming to be BiH and against this law know that this is a completely hollow story, as far as their advocate for BiH is concerned. And I think, as a member of the presidency yesterday, Mr. Sulejman Tihić said in Belgrade that the principle is in the agreement of three peoples. Here are the two people who have all agreed, and here is the third one close. We should do it that way and I don't think there's any reason to turn to this story and do it that way. Yes, as far as the Party for BiH is concerned, they, the BiH Party, defends BiH as Slobodan Milošević defended Yugoslavia. Same principles, same way, same everything. If BiH defends itself in such a way that in the beginning, as the people would say, it chokes 'the List Act', it means not that it's even a chance to defend BiH, although I don't mind that you do. I mean, I don't mind, but I think it's a better side to look for a deal. It's only possible to make a deal and I think we're this close. The list is a technical question. We all need a list. Here, the whole discussion of Mr. Genjac in reasons, I fully accept what he said, why we need a list. Those who want to push BiH with Botswana and defend Botswana and Bosnia? Defend, I mean, take the flag of Bocvana and say here we are, our contribution to this whole diaspora story. So let's stop lying about the diaspora. Well, that looks like the same thing when that guy was asked, "Do you have a girlfriend?" Well, I do. So you're dating her? Well, I'm walking. Well, she's the only one who doesn't know we're dating. We love each other but she doesn't know that we love each other. What diaspora is sick?- I'm sorry. What are we talking about? You know what this country is and how it treated the diaspora and everything else and how things stand? So you need to ask those diaspora people if they want us. 65
ParlaMint-BA_2010-06-16-0.u35419	Time!
ParlaMint-BA_2010-06-16-0.u35420	Here's where I end up. You should ask why.
ParlaMint-BA_2010-06-16-0.u35421	A little patience.
ParlaMint-BA_2010-06-16-0.u35422	What kind of state did we make for someone from Malmo to choose now, and now we've been wasting hours here, how the Malmo guy is running to get here and like us, we're not giving him anything. Don't lie to me. Niko runs anywhere. Let go of those stories, they're empty. It's only in your heads that someone from Stockholm will come and can't wait for just some profit here... so he'll come live. I mean, don't make people laugh, I mean, funny.
ParlaMint-BA_2010-06-16-0.u35423	Nice, and this is a good one for you,...as if today's list we've started, good for you. Šefik Džaferović.
ParlaMint-BA_2010-06-16-0.u35424	Thank you, Chairman. We should really have good nerves and be armed with patience so we can endure Zivkovic's attacks on common sense. I can only understand his performance because it is against the law that those who are willing to support the law today in the first reading, which is the SDA, because in the next phase they will not support amendments, and to claim that for the law those of the SNSD are subject to guarantee that amendments will be accepted – is indeed something that constitutes an impact on common sense and represents a major contribution to scientific methods in approach to this issue from the adoption of the law in general, not only to this census law. Mr. Živković needs to be congratulated on that, too. But he's not here. I'm sorry he's not here. I'm sorry to tell him that he's still a figure who won't be able to provoke anyone here in Parliament or us from the U.S.A. We have endured much stronger and much harder attacks on common sense in this country, and we will endure what he does. So, it's a perfectly clear thing after all these discussions that we've had, especially after Mr. Genjac's discussion that has again presented all the elements of this question in one reasonable way. Who knew nothing about this problem could learn from that discussion. We will therefore uphold the law in the first reading. And we say again: this is the result of an Interresor Working Group agreement that he was sitting in and a representative voted for by the SNSD. And we will not support amendments that further diverge this issue. But that's what we're going to talk about when we get to phase two, and today we're going to push green on this law in our first reading. 66 That's it, thank you.
ParlaMint-BA_2010-06-16-0.u35425	It's a waste of time. Azra Hadžiahmetović.
ParlaMint-BA_2010-06-16-0.u35426	Well, there's no Mr. Živković, I won't say I'm sorry he's gone, but he'll probably hear. Oh, yeah, he's a perfect listener. Let's just fix it like this. No one can propose in this House ratification of the Constitution. It may potentially be subject to procedures in this Parliament when it comes to the international agreement, the peace agreement, with all its annexes, including Aneks vii.. Well, yes, drago, I know you'll tell him, but please just remind him. Secondly, Mr. Živković specifically said that the BiH Constitution in Article 9(3) says that officials appointed to positions in BiH institutions generally reflect the composition of the peoples of BiH. And, as he said, no more letters in our constitution, and we don't need anything more to refer to anything else at all. However, Mr. Živković forgot to remind the following. The decision of the High Representative on amendments to the constitutions of both entities, here I will... the provisions of the RS, of 19. 4. In 2002, which states, i.e. in particular, the amendments and the decision to amend and supplement the Federation Constitution of 19. 4. which says: 'Constitutional peoples and groups of others will be proportionally represented in the public institutions of both entities. As a constitutional principle, such proportional representation will be based on the 1991 census while aneks vii.. It does not fully comply with the BiH State Service Act. This general principle will be specified by entity laws. These laws will set concrete deadlines and regulate the above mentioned principle in line with the regional, ethnic structure of entities and cantons." Furthermore, it says, "public institutions within the meaning of this member are the RS government's ministries, municipal authorities, RS district courts and municipal courts in RS". That is, amendments to the Federation Constitution, ministries in the Federation of BiH government, canton governments, municipal authorities, cantonal and municipal courts in the Federation of BiH. Therefore, these provisions of the entity constitution suggest that entity laws regulate the application of the ethnic structure of the population to which data can only be obtained by a list. I will remind you, since Mr Kalabić interpreted the good views of the Party for BiH, under quotes, of course, of the views of its SNSD party, just referring to these provisions, or quotes that I have read. Your member in the Commission has asked to redefine a member who would read in the new formulation; 'The total number of listed persons will be used for administrative needs within BiH.' So don't cover yourself with statistical needs, because you asked to enter a provision administrative in the context of these provisions that I read. Furthermore, in Article 5, i.e. a new position (3) in Article 5a), which reads as follows: ‘The basis for calculating the ethnic structure of each territorial unit will be used by the total number of permanent resident BiH residents, namely those who lived uninterrupted at least 12 months before the reference date, in their usual place of 67 dwellings or persons who, in the last 12 months before the reference date of the census, came to their usual place of residence with the intention to stay there for at least one year.’ It's a finished quote. I would not be pulling work materials from the work of the Commission during the preparation of these materials that are ahead of us, but please do not use and interpret in your own way, especially the wrong way, views and advocates of the Party for BiH, because your views and your claims are very clear. Thank you. /Shortly severed connection/
ParlaMint-BA_2010-06-16-0.u35427	...it's kind of, since there's been a calling, etc. So the exchange of data on the list of diaspora with the countries of Europe does not give us the necessary information. Why? Because that way we can only get how many Bosanac and Hercegovac are in Germany... and nothing more. The municipalities, Mr. Živković, from which the municipalities, how long they've been there, nationality, religious, have none of that. And that's why it's not throwing away the diaspora list, the diaspora list is very necessary and a very productive act, that's one thing. The second thing, we've never used these predictive methods. If the amendment won't be accepted, let's break the law now. The procedure is procedure, it is prescribed as prescribed, the fact is that we cannot weaken the solution in the law. But for example, if you are in favour of enrolling in the law solutions from the Constitution, we immediately accept that the Constitution of BiH also states the constitutions of the entities to write such a solution to the problem. That'll explain. So how is it written in the BiH Constitution and how in the entity's constitutions we rewrite and solve the problem. Let's just say, that's an improvement. Thank you.
ParlaMint-BA_2010-06-16-0.u35428	Since many have abused, replica or discussion is regularly reduced to the same, whether the replica of whether the discussion will all be our turn on this matter. This is what I was going to say: that it is hypocritical and, at the very least, of all the members of the Commission who supported this law in this proposal to go into parliamentary procedure not to support it today in the first reading, because it was agreed to let go of the first reading, i.e. it was so assumed that the amendments would be improved, while here I have heard from the representative of the SDA, or the SDA Club, that they would support it in the first reading and here in some ways remove it from them, here I say, that unpreciseness, means they will be principled because it is so on the Commission, while others will see how they will vote when this first reading is first. Many talk about ethnic cleansing, or that this law will either confirm ethnic cleansing or show it as much as it was. I don't see the possibility that this law will confirm ethnic cleansing. That someone needs to convince me that by passing this list law, they're going to say that the ethnic cleansing that was, and as far as I don't know, someone is going to determine if they can determine it, is confirmed. It will neither be smaller nor greater by adopting or passing this law. Also, maybe this law will show that this ethnic cleansing was less than some advocates and think it was too much in his entity or maybe it would show that there was more of him than in another 68 entities say it was but maybe it wasn't to that extent. Let's let the law tell the real truth. Someone here is afraid of the real truth if it's possible to come up with a census bill to the real truth about that ethnic cleansing. However, my belief is that it is not only that reason but that it is now a good pre-election reason and a political maneuver to say that it is not right with some kind of, let me say, political views to support or not to support the law because of ethnic cleansing, etc., etc., in this time that comes before us and vice versa, do not support or support. I think there's some deeper reason and that we don't need to argue about it anymore, simply, I think it's enough to give up all the further discussions and go to a statement on the first reading and fix it to the extent that it's possible to fix for a second reading. I claim that it is possible to pass it and that, if it has any interest, relevant factors that can pass this law in this House are brought because it does not have for sure what I just said, which is an impact on what happened. What's done is done. After all, we will have a list that is purely technical and that will not be able to change what is being said here and I see no reason why it is not brought at all and perhaps within some time within which it is possible to be brought, and that is the next year when they list mainly in Europe and the environment. So I would suggest that the law be released, that amendments be given in the second reading, and, of course, to be such as to be able to agree to be adopted and then simply come to the realization that we have discovered something new by adopting this law when it comes to ethnic cleansing or any other political issue, or we have come up with this technical issue that needs a census. And finally, it must be known which policy options are here for the bill on the list, which are not. Are these political options from the RS for which they are always trying to take the blame or are they the Federation's political options? With these discussions so far, this could be seen, and this has made it somewhat easier for the U.S.A.'s view that largely the Federation's incentive options are against the census, and I suggest that all of these work under quotes, about the Census Bill's proposal, are analysed.
ParlaMint-BA_2010-06-16-0.u35429	I'm very patient, here's the time! Here you all cross by a minute, let's stick to the Rules of Procedure.
ParlaMint-BA_2010-06-16-0.u35430	Well, it is, that's why I'm...
ParlaMint-BA_2010-06-16-0.u35431	You've wasted your time.
ParlaMint-BA_2010-06-16-0.u35432	I took the discussion to analyze and to see who was responsible. Thank you very much. 69
ParlaMint-BA_2010-06-16-0.u35433	Business intervention Živković. Mr. Džaferović, here.
ParlaMint-BA_2010-06-16-0.u35434	Since I've had a discussion, if I had two replicas, I have no right to continue to replicate either a respected colleague or an esteemed colleague, I'd have nothing to say. I want to say to the honourable MP Džaferović, and it is a business intervention: I have not mentioned you individually, anyone, in any word in my discussion, about the party of the SDA and about the position. You have no right to say whether my discussion speaks or offends the common sense of this state, these MPs and more, or to comment on my performance here behind this pay phone. You have the right to comment on what the party says and what I meant to say. I haven't said one word to any of you... nor talked about your performance here, nor about what your discussions look like. I was talking about your stranger, and you haven't even said now what the SDA thinks about this law.
ParlaMint-BA_2010-06-16-0.u35435	Let's move on. Replica, Milica Marković.
ParlaMint-BA_2010-06-16-0.u35436	My replica refers to Mrs Hadžiahmetović's presentation, as she mentioned a SNSD representative who participated and worked in the commission. I was that member of that commission in front of the SNSD and I want to say that the Party for BiH has entered such a stalemate as to this law and the overall procedure of the Bill on the Census List that you will find it difficult to get out of this right now in what you are about to say about what Milorad Živković said and what Milica Marković said, so whether it's contradictory now or in some kind of agreement. It is true that you said that I invested those amendments, I did invest, but those formulations that you read were the full formulations of the Bill on the List of People proposed by the Council of Ministers, and the SNSD supported that law and we thought that it was a very quality solution and, if it were fortunate that we all supported it, he would probably, now they would start preparing and the Statistics Agency would have done a lot of preparations. But it's not, you didn't even know what you wanted, as you don't know today, and you get up and you lecture us here and you tell us and the only thing that's true at the end of what you said, Mrs. Hadžiahmetović, which is that SNSD knows exactly what it wants and doesn't want. Well, we're telling you exactly what we want and what we're not, unlike those of you who are now taking off on some small and cheap stuff the way a SNSD representative behaves on this committee, as you've read. Neither I nor the SNSD Club disputed at all, as Mr. Živković said, that I did not support this law. I didn't even challenge him, but I told him to go into procedure, but I can't vote for that proposal because not all the proposals I had as a representative of the SNSD on that committee were accepted. That's it. 70
ParlaMint-BA_2010-06-16-0.u35437	Replica, Drago Kalabić. When he's out, what he's getting out of, it's a good term.
ParlaMint-BA_2010-06-16-0.u35438	Well, here's three things I have to say. Mr. Genjac suggested, although for the first time I've heard it, if it's a new practice for the provisions of the entity constitutions to be introduced, then we've made a move. Here's the thing, it's never wanted to be heard of anything like that before, but here's the thing. If it corresponds to my request in the College, I am waiting for the Kolegijum to answer me about the characteristics of the entity in this House, it seems to me that the Kolegijum has promised us that we will get that answer. Here, and it's a shift. I don't understand Mr. Džaferović. Is this the time that this is pre-election, this fever around the candidate lists and what it's about, I don't know. But you see, there goes the amendment phase and stands up Mr. Džaferović where I don't get it and says there won't be an amendment. Is that a message to these MPs, here to say otherwise from the opposition, that they should not come here. So, there's an amendment phase going on and I don't understand that Mr. Džaferović could have told me not to go when the amendments go and they will be. And they will be, and they will probably be, and by the U.S.A., you know who decides, I mean, it's not about that. I appeal again: Let's not spoil the atmosphere, we're close. You know, Mr. Džaferović, the first time I've seen you hit with a fist of a hundred and then you say there will be no law and we'll never vote for this. ... Give it a little more, you're close. _________(?) [[no microphone turned on]] There's no reason. I think you're so close than the BiH Party, medically speaking, which for this matter is a lost cause. I mean, we can't fix that. Mrs. Hadžiahmetović, here's your boss, although I suppose and I know that Bahtić has better communication with the boss, but here's your boss: what you read is no longer valid. Tell your boss the High Representative won't interfere with this anymore. Tell your boss he's a waste of his tickling around the world, and that story about moaning on his country, suing his country, and everything else, is no longer going on. You've read the decisions of the high officials they will no longer make. Here we call upon the High Representative to resolve this situation. He won't. So you call on those times, they're not those times anymore, they're not here, and it's not going anymore, tell your boss the situation is dead. The High Representative won't interfere, Europe is pushing us to accept,...we're alone, tell the boss we're alone, catch a car, catch a train.
ParlaMint-BA_2010-06-16-0.u35440	We'll tell him that's what Drago Kalabić said.
ParlaMint-BA_2010-06-16-0.u35441	Say, feel free to say that I said that this was the last message from... the grave, as it went for the Party for BiH, grab someone, just right, and the freight wagon, you turned out completely, it's almost 71, this is a story, you're directly against the list, I put it, the list is exclusively in the interest of BiH, exclusively in the interest of BiH. And no, this isn't a list for Serbia.
ParlaMint-BA_2010-06-16-0.u35442	Time!
ParlaMint-BA_2010-06-16-0.u35443	I'm done. It's not a list for Croatia either, for BiH. But it's not known that people were getting elections by destroying state principles and state interests. It's not unknown.
ParlaMint-BA_2010-06-16-0.u35444	Time, time! We'll say you said it. Šefik Džaferović.
ParlaMint-BA_2010-06-16-0.u35445	Tell me it's me.
ParlaMint-BA_2010-06-16-0.u35446	Replica, Šefik Džaferović.
ParlaMint-BA_2010-06-16-0.u35447	I mean, I've been there answering some of your statements, not a little bit of you throwing firecrackers down the hall, so you walked in here in the O.R. to throw, tossing your firecrackers. Well, we're not kids, we're grown men, the firecrackers don't mean anything here. HONEY
ParlaMint-BA_2010-06-16-0.u35448	/no microphone turned on/
ParlaMint-BA_2010-06-16-0.u35449	You don't need to, and especially here in the O.R., I mean, take it and throw the firecrackers.
ParlaMint-BA_2010-06-16-0.u35450	Šefik, it's your third job, too.
ParlaMint-BA_2010-06-16-0.u35451	Thank you.
ParlaMint-BA_2010-06-16-0.u35452	Let's move on, Azra Hadžiahmetović. 72
ParlaMint-BA_2010-06-16-0.u35453	Well, you see, colleague Kalabić, I'm not going to go to the boss to say it, really. First, I read the amendments to the Constitution, which was declared by the High Representative and which are valid, published on the web pages, are an integral part of our Constitution of BiH, declared by the High Representative, and perhaps, perhaps, just to ask from the OHR to pass on to the High Representative that you think that this no longer applies to the amendments to the Constitution that he declared, or some high representative, no longer applies to the SNSD's views. Well, maybe it's better if you don't address my boss because he's really dealing with other things, and these marginal things don't matter to him, that one thing. Secondly,
ParlaMint-BA_2010-06-16-0.u35454	Let's hear it for a while.
ParlaMint-BA_2010-06-16-0.u35455	You see, a member of your club just mentioned that the only thing that's true of my discussion is that I said something, etc. I just want to remind you, most of my replica was about reading quotes from the relevant provisions of the Constitution for this story we're talking about. If one analyst is ever interested in how they evaluated for the better or worse views of individual parties, from the first initiative related to the list that respected counterpart Živković in this parliament several years ago initiated parliamentary issues until today's debate, then you can, these analysts and you, everyone, be sure how consistent the BiH Party's views were from the very beginning. We haven't changed our attitude for Yota either. We are for a list only in accordance with definitions and criteria and including all binding and bypassing non-binding elements, precisely for the reasons that were here. We can take the minutes from Parliament's session when it comes to that. And by the way, even when we used that termology, many of you here today were drilling into your chest using that little bit of professional terminology, in those times you didn't even know what that meant.
ParlaMint-BA_2010-06-16-0.u35456	Ekrem Ajanović, business intervention.
ParlaMint-BA_2010-06-16-0.u35457	Well, thank you, but I'll be brief. First, it's Mrs. Milica, and then it's Oli Ren and Genjac, after all. Niko's right about equating refugees and displaced faces with diaspora, because it's not diaspora. The diaspora is the man who willingly moved to live in another country and remains there forever. The BiH Constitution, which is in force, mentions only refugees and displaced persons and their rights in Article II, point 6. Therefore, the whole discussion is that those persons must be listed and those who speak well, even from the international community and, even, Oli Ren is wrong because they violate the basic Dayton Agreement that was written.
ParlaMint-BA_2010-06-16-0.u35458	Ramsia, Sadik, is there a need? Is there a need? Will you both, is there a need? 73
ParlaMint-BA_2010-06-16-0.u35459	I have to thank my colleague, drag Kalabić, because he confessed to my discussion, confirmed that the SDA referred, so that's okay, and... that's all visible, and we all know that, the SDA Club. And secondly, that as a Party for BiH is fighting for BiH as Milošević for Yugoslavia. These are quite two different, he said earlier, Milošević fought for Yugoslavia pure of one people, killing, ethnic cleansing... The BiH Party is fighting for the state of all citizens, has neither expelled nor shut down, and so on. And this is what you want to legalise the Milošević project, and here you say the BiH Party is fighting for BiH as Milošević for fighting for Yugoslavia. Those two things, they'll never be ruined by the state thanks to these here.
ParlaMint-BA_2010-06-16-0.u35460	What do you say, Slavko?
ParlaMint-BA_2010-06-16-0.u35461	And thank you for confessing to the U.S.A., and that's it.
ParlaMint-BA_2010-06-16-0.u35462	Slavko Jovičić.
ParlaMint-BA_2010-06-16-0.u35463	Thank you, Mr. Chairman. Of course, people, you don't need a fight, one of them's gonna do this, the other's gonna do it, the other's gonna do it. But I am known as a solidarity man that a respected counterpart, Kalabić, no longer has the right to replicate, a replica of the esteemed Šefik Džaferović around these firecrackers. I just got rid of it today... so it doesn't ring my ears, and you're talking about firecrackers today.
ParlaMint-BA_2010-06-16-0.u35464	It wasn't me, drago.
ParlaMint-BA_2010-06-16-0.u35465	No, you mentioned them, I didn't hear anything. Did he throw?
ParlaMint-BA_2010-06-16-0.u35466	Yes, it is.
ParlaMint-BA_2010-06-16-0.u35467	Okay, then out of range and out of this room. Was it there?
ParlaMint-BA_2010-06-16-0.u35468	You see it with him. 74
ParlaMint-BA_2010-06-16-0.u35469	All right. It's no problem, and this is a really great situation for us to argue, talk, and, like in many cases, not agree. What's gonna happen? It's going to Desiće, and it's not, someone mentioned the sun, the esteemed one, and it's a replica of counterpart Kalabić, it's not the dawn, it's that Somalija, in Somalia, killing people who watched the game. How will they have a census there? I can't have, killing people for watching the game. Here's everyone watching, nobody told us who we were rooting for, but we're looking for a list. Well, don't be with them. That's the point. _________(?) [[no microphone turned on]] There were 20 people killed watching the game, because the state doesn't want to watch the broadcast.
ParlaMint-BA_2010-06-16-0.u35471	Please listen to each other, a little patience.
ParlaMint-BA_2010-06-16-0.u35472	So, seriously, I'm saying this. ... Here, 20 days ago, we had the diaspora we're talking about here, and I was just watching who makes that diaspora. People, there are no Srbin! As soon as there's not a single Srbin on that team, there's no diaspora. They were Bošnjak I greet, some they were. No Hrvat were on that team, no diaspora. The diaspora is when all three are together, just like we're sitting here when we don't agree. So three people are here. And all newspapers have published a large delegation, a visit, even the election of a new president in this diaspora parliament. There they are, and they came here. That's not true. The Bosniaks gathered, the refugee team came here and said - we are the diaspora BiH. That's not true. And they can't be listed because they represent one people in this way who would have been reparticipating in the election of power since '91. And I end up, 50 people, not to say 50,000, says -- they'll never return to BiH, no Annex VII has been done. So what do we do? Neither one of us is going to see that happen. Niko, we're all going to die. We don't live the Eagle of the Age. There's no date when it's supposed to stop, as long as it's true. And then, around this ethnically real cleaning, so here I am as a Srbin, here I am not on behalf of the club, here I am not on behalf of the party, so I ask Bog to sign it and sign it and really see which areas ethnic cleansing was done from. There are no Srbin in the Federation more than 3% to 4%.
ParlaMint-BA_2010-06-16-0.u35473	May I have your patience and attention, please? Mr. Jukić, Ekrem, hello!
ParlaMint-BA_2010-06-16-0.u35474	Here, I'm just finished, you don't need to listen to me. Thank you, Mr. Chairman. Thank you, and here I am helping you, so that they don't listen to me, distract me, here I am. 75
ParlaMint-BA_2010-06-16-0.u35475	Let's make a deal. If we're gonna take a break or two more, here it is, three discussions... to finish it, give it a little bit more rational. _________(?) [[no microphone turned on]] Eh, when you spent an hour and a half. Husein Nanić, replica.
ParlaMint-BA_2010-06-16-0.u35477	I thank you, Chairman. The replica refers to the esteemed colleague Slavko Jovičić when he spoke about the 5th Concreation of the World Diaspora Union and about the composition I would ask my colleague to speak more seriously and responsibly about these matters. It is an organisation that brings together the peoples of BiH and, in its own way, held its congress here, 5th in a row, sponsors were members of the BiH presidency in its composition. I know the names, that there are names that aren't just Bošnjak, and in that sense I had an obligation to react to these allegations that were made.
ParlaMint-BA_2010-06-16-0.u35478	Remzija Kadrić. SLOVE
ParlaMint-BA_2010-06-16-0.u35479	/no microphone turned on/
ParlaMint-BA_2010-06-16-0.u35480	No more, two at a time, two at a time.
ParlaMint-BA_2010-06-16-0.u35481	I'm right.
ParlaMint-BA_2010-06-16-0.u35482	You don't have to, so you're right, do you, do you?
ParlaMint-BA_2010-06-16-0.u35483	Just two sentences.
ParlaMint-BA_2010-06-16-0.u35484	Ramsia, wait a minute, here's just two sentences. Here, two sentences.
ParlaMint-BA_2010-06-16-0.u35485	For a stenogram. 76
ParlaMint-BA_2010-06-16-0.u35486	You already said two.
ParlaMint-BA_2010-06-16-0.u35487	I welcome that they have held a convention.
ParlaMint-BA_2010-06-16-0.u35488	Okay.
ParlaMint-BA_2010-06-16-0.u35489	I don't mind.
ParlaMint-BA_2010-06-16-0.u35490	Okay.
ParlaMint-BA_2010-06-16-0.u35491	Maybe if they'd called me, people believed me, that I'd come to say hello like that.
ParlaMint-BA_2010-06-16-0.u35492	Great.
ParlaMint-BA_2010-06-16-0.u35493	But for the sake of truth, no Srbin was in that delegation, nor was it part of the so-called so-called "registration". "Bosnian Herzegovina Diaspora." So they were Bošnjak and I salute them for being, not belittled. No one was the only one, and in the presidency, I'm not going to say it to anyone else.
ParlaMint-BA_2010-06-16-0.u35494	He hasn't called you back. SLOVE
ParlaMint-BA_2010-06-16-0.u35495	: which is also here in the Sarajevo Presidency of various organisations that do not represent the Serbian people, which I represent.
ParlaMint-BA_2010-06-16-0.u35496	Okay. Remzija Kadrić, discussion.
ParlaMint-BA_2010-06-16-0.u35497	Thank you.
ParlaMint-BA_2010-06-16-0.u35498	We should listen to each other if you have the patience to listen. 77
ParlaMint-BA_2010-06-16-0.u35499	I only wanted to say in one sentence why it was necessary to vote against the principles of this law. Because the principles of this law allow legalisation of ethnic cleansing and genocide in BiH. It's a very clear thing. Here, the SNSD should answer why (because they have a majority in the National Assembly of the Republic of Slovenia) the National Assembly of the Republic of Slovenia passed its Law on the census? Therefore, the BiH Party here is quite clear and is not at any stalemate, we have had clear and principled views since the beginning. We really need to be serious about this law, because when the law is reviewed, it basically legalises genocide and ethnic cleansing in BiH. There's no diaspora list. There's a list of refugees and displaced faces, but on a special form. Therefore, the total number of the BiH population does not enter, and it will ultimately legalise both genocide and ethnic cleansing of BiH if this law is passed.
ParlaMint-BA_2010-06-16-0.u35500	We still have selo Bešlagić reported, and then there's a break. SELIM Bešlagić [[no microphone turned on]] ... Is it enough for us until three o'clock? At 3:00, we move on. [[PAUZA]]
ParlaMint-BA_2010-06-16-0.u35502	Moving to the 14th point of the agenda: Ad. 14. Proposal for a Law amending the Law on State Service in the Institutions of Bosnia and Herzegovina, with Opinion of the Constitutional Commission, Proposer: Representative Lazar Prodanović, Law No: 01-02-9-34/10 of 13. 5. 2010 (first reading) Dear Representative Lazar Prodanović, the draft law has been submitted to the regular parliamentary procedure 13. 5. 2010 The opinion was delivered by the relevant Constitutional Legal Commission 8. Six. 2010 The commission supported the constitutional legal basis but did not support the principles of the bill. Today we are discussing the Opinion, so if we accept it, the proposed law has been rejected. Unless we accept it, the bill returns to this commission for a new opinion. We have also received a letter from OHR regarding this Bill proposal, and the Agency for State Service has forwarded the opinion of the Council of Ministers of BiH to us. I'm opening a debate on the Constitutional Commission's opinion. Dear Representative Šefik Džaferović. 78
ParlaMint-BA_2010-06-16-0.u35504	Mr. Chairman, colleagues and colleagues, ladies and gentlemen, I am sorry that the draft law does not have here in the O.R. that he hears this, but since he is a member of the Constitutional Legal Commission he has already had the opportunity to hear at the session of the Constitutional Commission. You, in the light of the opinion of our commission, were able to read that it did not support the principles for reasons or by reason that the solutions offered in this law, i.e. the principles on which this law is based, are based with the existing concept of state service that exists in BiH. The essence of the law is to enable civil servants to pursue politics, i.e. to enable them to return to their positions in the state service they were in before entering politics. We in BiH promote and advocate, we have such a solution, right, a legislative solution or a conceptual solution to the apolitical state service. And possibly that concept that we have, and a possible concept so-called. political state services that with a shift of power all civil servants pack bags and go home and come a brand-new set of furniture, not just politicians. I don't think that's good for BiH, that it's good for us in BiH to continue to build this apolitical or extra-political or political concept of state service. So that's one thing. And, especially, it's not good to have it a little bit like this, a little bit like this, as this law suggests. This law actually proposes some kind of mixed concept: to remain existing solutions in relation to civil servants, so that they cannot be members of political parties and their bodies, but in certain cases they can deal with politics and return to the jobs they left behind. That is why the Constitutional Commission does not consider that the principles of this law should not be supported, this is the majority opinion in this committee, and I propose that the House accept a negative report from the Constitutional Commission. That's it, thank you.
ParlaMint-BA_2010-06-16-0.u35505	Thank you. No more reports. There is, second vice president, Dr. Milorad Živković.
ParlaMint-BA_2010-06-16-0.u35506	Since there are no promoters and since the opinion of the Constitutional Legal Commission is negative, we can decide: that this law falls now in this reading, or that the Opinion of the Constitutional Legal Commission should return. I think there's only one principle in BiH that makes someone a lifetime civil servant. And that we have to agree that we didn't create systems here by which someone can be evaluated, by which someone can be replaced, and by whom someone, if he had conditions, is then a civil servant, that doesn't mean it has to be for life. It is just a principle in BiH where we do not want to change it, although we are aware that it does not work in the way it should work or in the way it is imagined. In these cases, a person is given a choice: whether to resign and engage in politics or if he does not go through with those situations where he wanted to be engaged in a job. Its ability to be elected in the elections is Uslovljava, which I think is about violating basic human rights to be 79 chosen and elected. It seems to me that in our Bosnian herbic conditions, we have more and more men and fences who can be chosen and who can be elected. I advocate the kind of solution in which civil servants at the levels involved in the functioning of institutions, such as the ministries, will be responsible for those same ministers who come during the term of office. In the past, we have had a situation in which these people do not bear that responsibility, act as experts and continue to work no matter how the ministry delivers results. I'm in favour of these people's responsibility with their work together with the minister and his deputies for the functioning of these ministries. I don't think it's discrimination, I don't think it's a system collapse, I think it's a step towards giving greater importance to the responsibility of those people in the institutions they work in. Thank you.
ParlaMint-BA_2010-06-16-0.u35507	Thank you. Replica, distinguished representative Šefik Džaferović.
ParlaMint-BA_2010-06-16-0.u35508	Therefore, there is no preventing a civil servant from dealing with politics and whoever wants from the civil servants to deal with politics – the bujrum, but there is no guarantee, after he stops dealing with politics, that he will be able to return to the position of a civil servant promoting this law. That's actually the point. So, here is not the intensity of even the law that a civil servant can deal with politics, because he can deal with it, but it is the intensity of the law to guarantee him that he can return to his place. Nobody's guaranteed anything, not even a civil servant. So that's one thing. And the other thing, when it comes to being a civil servant for life or not, I don't think it's a law issue. This is a problem of law enforcement, and they could do even one analysis of the application of the Law on State Service, how the system of evaluation is applied, the monitoring of civil servants. It's something else right now, and I think that's where we need to look for solutions so that someone doesn't really think he's a civil servant for life, and then, on that principle, he acted without the level of responsibility needed by civil servants. The law doesn't promote it, but I'm afraid the practice in law enforcement is just promoting this principle, but it's not the subject of this law, it's the subject of something else, or some analysis. That's it, thank you.
ParlaMint-BA_2010-06-16-0.u35509	Thank you. The following has been reported by the esteemed representative Ekrem Ajanović. 80
ParlaMint-BA_2010-06-16-0.u35510	Mr. President, ladies and gentlemen, some of these solutions as proposed by this law actually we had right after the war and showed catastrophic results. The one who was in the state service at the time and was in charge of the ministries, and among other things, I was on two occasions, knows that this is one big problem if we were to open up and go back to the previous system of running people and changing civil servants doing certain jobs. That is why I think that this law should be rejected and should not be accepted, especially for the reasons why it endangers professionalism and the independence of the state government, or service. I don't think this is a good solution, and it should be, I will personally be against this law.
ParlaMint-BA_2010-06-16-0.u35511	Thank you. Replica, distinguished representative Adem Huskić.
ParlaMint-BA_2010-06-16-0.u35512	It's not a replica to Mr. Ajanović, but I reacted late. The replica refers to a part of Mr. Živković's presentation and part of that replica was taken from me by the Šefik, because really this law does not deal with what you're saying. And I fully agree that this is the problem you've been talking about and I think that we need to... set standards for measuring, how that used to be said, work and resulting work, and make it impossible or create conditions that no one is guaranteed to be in the state business until retirement, whether, on the budget, no matter how it works or what the results of his work are. So that problem stands but it's not the subject of the law. And just to say that when we talk about human rights, we have whole categories of occupations like police, police officers, military, etc. who can't be active in political life. So if we're talking about getting into the sphere of human rights, then that's what these categories are all about, and we know that's not it. Thank you.
ParlaMint-BA_2010-06-16-0.u35513	Replica, the esteemed second vice president, Dr. Milorad Živković.
ParlaMint-BA_2010-06-16-0.u35514	I think those two things are connected and they can't even be seen separately. Maybe it was a mistake not to go along with the amendments to the two laws. I believe that state officials concerned with ministerial assistants should be those whose political option, which comes to power, is changing. By doing so, they have the right to be elected and to deal with politics the way this law proposes. So, along with this law, it would be necessary to change that member in the Law on State Service, in which they are allowed because, don't lie, in this country these assistants are not coming on a professional line to institutions for the time being, but on a political line. If that's the case, all we have to do is confess. 81
ParlaMint-BA_2010-06-16-0.u35515	Dear Representative Momčilo Novaković is next.
ParlaMint-BA_2010-06-16-0.u35516	Thank you, Mr. Chairman. Here, and I'll be as short as my colleagues. I mean, I'm not in favour of any kind of discrimination against civil servants, but I'm also not in favour of finding myself in a privileged position compared to others. It's quite clear... that all employees must resign before they run. Well, there we have, I don't know, the cops, the soldiers, so the judges, I don't know, etc., etc., there are exactly what faces they are. And now to get out of all that talk just state officials and say only they have the right to go back to work if they're not elected, everyone else still can't run and if they don't resign, I don't think it's correct. After all, not only according to these categories that have been defined by law, it is not correct for others either, according to bank officials and, I don't know, everyone else, means that simply if they are not elected they cannot return, or if they are chosen, perform a mandate, they cannot return to work. No one is guaranteed to go back to work, so I don't see, I really don't see any reason for civil servants to put themselves in a position of privilege. I'm not for discrimination, but I'm not for this kind of positive discrimination either, and that's why I'm not going to support this law in the first reading. Thank you.
ParlaMint-BA_2010-06-16-0.u35517	Thank you. The next is Honorable Representative Drago Kalabić.
ParlaMint-BA_2010-06-16-0.u35518	Mr. Chairman, distinguished colleagues, well, I spoke to the Constitutional Legal Commission and there were a lot of arguments about this, and here we are today seeing different dilemmas. It says something else, that we can think of this differently, there are different models that this issue has been regulated in many countries, but here one question is now being imposed, we haven't analyzed how our system of state administration works, and I think that's the problem. Here we have different models under pressure of certain... groups sold, imported, made, we accepted them, we had no arguments not to accept them and we didn't analyze them. Because you see, we have a situation of professional independent prosecution and justice, we have a professional... state administration, we have, I don't know, professional police, military and everything else, we've done it all, but we're not doing it. It's not working for us. You have many criticisms at the expense of the state administration which is as such but is not going, I don't know, that I am now not making arguments, out of tromitude and slowness, infunctionalness and the rest, how much of this state administration is at the service of the system itself and the citizens. Obviously something's not right. We didn't run an analysis and then we'd get into a situation to see if that model was acceptable. 82 So, I would remind those who were at a session of one of the parliaments for Europe and where this is the best discussion, which I have heard, the Slovenian minister who decapitated this thing, who to this extent criticized this system and model here, where man said that this was a disaster and clear arguments why they refused to apply this model and got a very functional administration that is in the service and interest of the state and that works perfectly. And now they go to other countries, and they hire them. Yeah, it's slow and the dilemma in Macedonia because this model is trying to install itself down there, and it's similar with them. I'm not saying that apriories should be determined for any model, but it's correct that we've done an analysis, let's say, let's see, to pay attention to whether or not it is. Because there's a lot of dilemma here, is there, I don't know; the headmaster of the school is fine that he's running for political office and he can stay, I don't know, director, and he can go back to that position or even not go with her, as we're standing here with, I don't know, some things, or the director of home health, or, too, is working with children, with patients, who should be depolitized and so forth. A lot of these dilemmas. But I'm going back to that we've accepted a lot and we don't have the courage to analyze it, and then we have a very incorrect OHR behavior. You see, this is where the OHR came in and about a lot of other things when we ask the OHR won't answer. Why did he say anything about this, too, why when we're not going to the administration, why doesn't the OHR answer? Why are certain officials in the administration, not to say the favorites of some international organizations, which you have no chance of removing in some way? And then we're warned here, I respect and accept, but why in all situations OHR doesn't have an opinion when we're in some other problems, then it's silence from OHR. I respect that, if they already consider themselves to be a right, and I don't dispute it at all, we get an OHR opinion on some other important issues. And I think there's a lot of dilemma here. This shouldn't be so easily rejected, I think, in the context of a different system of state administration, that we would see this for sure differently that people can participate in political life. Is it okay for a minister who's capable, who gets a position, that he can't manage his own ministry? At this point, he can't. The fact is that he cannot take full responsibility for the entire ministry in full capacity and answer to the people and to this Parliament because we did not give him these tools, because we have solutions set up like this. ... We have the protection of civil servants but at the same time we have no responsibility, nor have we in any way practiced that or analyze the application of the law, at least, which would allow, at least, application, so that we can fix the matter. But I don't think it's just an application problem, although I accept that it's in use, I think it's a systemic error and that the analysis would show that there are some things that need to be done here. If BiH needs, and obviously needs a faster path towards European integration, then this system of three state administrations and this kind of organized I don't think is compatible with its needs to have a faster and more functional administration that could meet the tasks that stand before... I think that because of these political relations that are so difficult and because there are no political arrangements that even more, in some ways, sheds light and, in some ways, in the back of these unresolved political relations, then even more so, the hidden unhappiness of the state administration. Only then will we face such a state administration that I am not sure that in this concept they will be able to respond to their tasks. 83
ParlaMint-BA_2010-06-16-0.u35519	Thank you. Replica, a respected representative of Azra Hadžiahmetović.
ParlaMint-BA_2010-06-16-0.u35520	Thank you. You see, I welcome the SNSD's pledge, according to a discussion by counterpart Kalabać, for an efficient public administration, etc., and I would really like to have opened the story of what the public administration is like at least one year before the election, as long as it comes with public administration reform, whether there are any delays etc. in order to increase the efficiency of the public administration and the like. But you see, a few months before the election, under cover of a more efficient public administration, changing the law like this, I don't think it's good. And, I think, first of all, it is managed by other reasons, not by reasons of a more efficient public administration and, here, for these very reasons, to mention that the Party for BiH Club will not support this law, although we stand at the point of opening the debate and it is necessary to amend all laws that are indirectly or directly related to the state service in order to get a more efficient and modern state service. Thank you.
ParlaMint-BA_2010-06-16-0.u35521	Thank you. The next replica is the esteemed representative Bakir Izetbegović.
ParlaMint-BA_2010-06-16-0.u35522	Mr. Kalabić, with regard to the position that the officials... are protected, that because of this trom, slow, inefficient administration, they will be even more protected by this. Because this is how he can look for a political back, and he's absolutely certain he'll get back to that job if he doesn't succeed. We actually need cops, soldiers, officers who just watch their jobs and who depend on their boss in place, and on their work, and on their efficiency, not on some political boss, so that we each get a hundred different political influences now. So, the SDA will not support this law, this proposal, and it will support this particular a politicisation and civil society.
ParlaMint-BA_2010-06-16-0.u35523	The next replica, the esteemed second vice president, Dr. Milorad Živković.
ParlaMint-BA_2010-06-16-0.u35524	Fellow Members and fellow Members, in addition to discussing the negative opinion of the Constitutional Commission, it would be good to refer to the opinion we received from the Council of Ministers, which was made by the Agency for State Service in BiH institutions. In this opinion, it literally states that the proposed amendments to the Law on State Service in BiH institutions relating to a member, etc. There are no fundamental remarks. It also states that existing legal solutions can be seen as agreeing with the BiH Constitution and international conventions on human and civil rights, etc., that I do not read it to you. I believe you've got that material. If the Council of Ministers and if the Agency says that there are no fundamental objections to this law, if they are aware that this administration is wrong and that they have problems in that, then the Constitutional Commission... after this decided that it was in the opposite and that those same ministers who were there were probably voting for it, the Council of Ministers had to determine, I do not believe that there was a vote on this, what happened in the meantime. How do we have a positive opinion from the Council of Ministers, a positive opinion from the State Service Agency, and we have a negative opinion from the Constitutional Commission? We need to explain these differences.
ParlaMint-BA_2010-06-16-0.u35525	Next replica, distinguished representative Drago Kalabić.
ParlaMint-BA_2010-06-16-0.u35526	You see, the state commission probably doesn't look at the chapter, unlike the chairman of the ustavnopravni Law that looks at who the bill comes from. And there's that difference, in that. The criteria he had before, he's probably put this little bit of a function in these pre-election activities. But well, that's his right, and I don't get into it, but if you look less at the head, it would be a chance that one day it would become what we expect it to be, even though it's a lot of years ago to wait a long time for it to be. My kolegica Hadžiahmetović, I am not at all, the reasons the promoter stated are here and there are no covert ones. So, here's just a dilemma about whether or not it's for this or whether it's for that. I just put it as a reminder of how the system works because those who say this doesn't need to change have a problem that we should say this works great, but you see, this isn't good, but don't even change it. Well, that's not gonna work, so that's not gonna work. I respect who says yes, good administration, works great, perfect, and don't change anything, it can go up there. But every analysis says, well, it's not good, we have problems, but we wouldn't change. Here, let something change, the promoter made it, thinks this is a good solution, that it's acceptable, maybe even modifications are possible. Here, the Agency has given a completely clear and fully expected solution. We had a debate here, people sued the court, wanted to be elected, the whole of Europe, wherever you move, asked us when... the president of the state would be. Well, it's gonna be, I said, there's nothing, if that's all the trouble, one of them's the president of the state, we'll sort it out, too. And here we are, and we're here that a capable civil servant has a lot of peripetitis to show up for the election. So no one said he was going to abuse the service, that he was going to put the machine, and neither do I, in his position. It's something that regulates other regulations. But I don't think it's a bad idea, certainly, especially given that this current system, I think it's a general assessment, I'd like someone to deny me, here's at least a treasure to say it doesn't work very well. There's something that needs to be changed here. And if we go to another concept, then you're all going to support this solution, which is perfectly logical. And I think it's good for us to go to another concept and put on a different level of responsibility in the administration itself. I'm personally a supporter of that model, I think it's more efficient, it's better and it's easier to locate responsibility. At 85 right now, the biggest problem is that you can't locate the responsibility. They're all protected in different ways and they all have excuses that it's not their fault, and globally, when you add it up, it doesn't work and someone's guilty. And that's our problem that we're not going to engage and, normally, someone who sees the OHR's head, that's his extra argument: don't touch it, don't touch it, it's a done deal. So there are no hidden intentions, these are all remarks about the functioning of the state administration itself. The reasons are quite clear, so there are no hidden ones, it's just to determine whether our solution is acceptable, whether or not it's possible to modify it, nothing else.
ParlaMint-BA_2010-06-16-0.u35527	The next replica is the esteemed representative Salko Sokolović.
ParlaMint-BA_2010-06-16-0.u35528	Thank you, Mr. Chairman. I really, reading this text of the proposed amendments to the Law on State Service, cannot in any way attach the essence of what Mr. Živković and Kalabić have said in terms of what intervention is within the law itself. I would think that this is a subject that we need to discuss, and it probably needs a slightly more thorough amendment to this law. But here, as the president of the SDA Club, Mr Izetbegović, has said, with this amendment of the law, you only further determine these civil servants, you claim their position, you ask that they necessarily return to the same or similar workplace. So it's not a direct impact on the quality of work within the current state institutions, but you're just claiming the position of the one currently being pulled out to be able to return to the previous workplace, please. And here we are, currently talking about how to strengthen someone's position when they are employed, when a man is already working, and a lot is being talked about (when political issues in BiH are being raised) about people's unemployment. I wouldn't allow some to double their jobs, and if we had an army of unemployed highly educated people there... Here's some civil servant to jump into these parliamentary benches or some other position and place a seat for those young people who are waiting for work. Let's think about it that way. It doesn't mean that he doesn't have a name and a last name, and it's not audible, that some young man who does not know how to perform all those functions that are obligations within the state service. I'd rather think of it that way. But otherwise in BiH if you have a name and name on a political scene, no matter what quality you are and how much you can do and professionally push a thing, you are more recognized than that diploma behind you or some quality work that is not applicable. Now, now that I've come out of context of all this talk, but if we're going back to the State Service Act, then we need to prepare it thoroughly. This is just a trip to its content and a regulation of some issues that may currently be interesting ahead of this election, but I think we should support this position of the Constitutional Commission, support this commission's negative position. If we are serious about solving problems in the work of the state administration, then we need to deal with a more detailed design. Thank you, Chairman. 86
ParlaMint-BA_2010-06-16-0.u35529	Thank you. Replica, distinguished representative Šefik Džaferović.
ParlaMint-BA_2010-06-16-0.u35530	Mr. Chairman, colleagues and colleagues, ladies and gentlemen, there is almost no need to respond to some statements by Mr. Kalabić which, as a man would say to make it as mild as possible, have nothing to do with the subject of the debate, but here you are in a position to talk about it too. So, fellow drago, I read both the header, and the introduction, and the saying, and the explanation, and the signature, and the lesson about the legal remedy. These are patient elements of judgment and solutions, and I'm very good at analyzing it. And, I advise you that if you don't read the introduction already, you don't look at the signature or the content, even if... read the document you get as an agent, do you, so let's say from this letter from the State Service Agency... if this isn't quite unreservedly supported, there's a reserve here compared to the secretaries with a special assignment. But here I am not saying everything I know about this law: how it came into the process, from where it was initiated; much more I know than it's written, read well, among other things, and about this and reduced my discussion strictly to this professional aspect, to the conceptual aspect. And the concept really is that the state service is apolitical and that this is a proposal that tries to make it a political state service. We've had a problem with ministerial assistants before and here is the essence of the ministerial assistants, we know that. And that's said, it's a chewed-up thing here in Parliament several times, that ministerial assistants simply stand aside and bring along the furniture. But then it's a concept. We have one concept, we have another concept, and we need to define ourselves for what concept. I said this law doesn't offer a solution to the problem, it's something in between. It can't be a little bit like this, a little bit like that. And when we talk about the concept, I'm on the concept of this kind of state service, but where we're going to... responsibility -- not through these laws, but it's known how it's done.
ParlaMint-BA_2010-06-16-0.u35531	Dear Representative Drago Kalabić, replica.
ParlaMint-BA_2010-06-16-0.u35532	Mr. Džaferović, it depends on what you're using. I've noticed that you sometimes apply regulations, sometimes apply the court of your party. I know exactly when you're applying the court of your party at a session. You talk about these things and when it comes to one thing, I accept it is your opinion and your opinion that you have clearly explained, but I have the right to say that it is a conservative opinion that does not allow for change and if it were followed by such an opinion we would not have come up with any change in this country. I said that your problem is that you can't explain why the situation is bad, if you defend all these principles, and what is your way to change this. No, you don't, don't touch it, you're not ready to defend that concept, but you don't. I ask you how would these people if they were applied from a position if they were already, I listened to your arguments when you advocated the election rights of people to be elected, under what conditions. Is someone supposed to be out of a job to have a chance to run, if someone needs 87 to jeopardize their existence to just run for office? Unlike everyone else, I told you a little while ago: is it okay for the school director to run and run a campaign at school through children, and that's a fine story, and let's say a very high-quality assistant minister who, whether he's doing well or not, but thinks he can run in the elections has a problem running. That's what I was talking about. In order for these people to pass Strasbourg, that's very interesting. And speaking of legal science, Mr. Džaferović, it is very interesting to say two constitutional commissions decide on the same thing, on the constitutional basis of one law. I was playing the case on both committees; on one where Mr. Džaferović is, both are graduated lawyers, and his party president is a graduate lawyer, on the second commission his party president determines that the draft law has a constitutional basis, which is quite logical. And I was at a session of the Constitutional Commission where Mr. Džaferović did not establish the constitutional basis of the law, and the Constitutional Commission of the House of Peoples found that where Mr. Tihić is in the commission. Well, it may be funny to you, Mr. Džaferović, but it doesn't make sense to me. It doesn't make sense to me. Something doesn't work there. Now you need to squeeze the loop and say Tihić is not a good lawyer. Now, you can't do that. You know that's not a good idea right now. You better take it upon yourself that you have, for political reasons, because the motioner is controversial, challenged the constitutional basis that you know that you are not smart because every MP in this House has the right to propose a law. You defended that right, and then, according to non-discipline, you came into a situation, instead of logically letting the constitutional basis go, you shot down the essence, you couldn't get over it. But still the president, and he's always the president because he's smarter than the others, because he is the president, and he's always the one who looks wider and who saved the thing in some way and the legal profession in BiH, that's how he saved it, because he let the constitutional basis of that law pass, and you know well what law I mean.
ParlaMint-BA_2010-06-16-0.u35533	The following has been reported for the debate by the esteemed First Vice-President, Mr. Beriz Belkić, and replicas have been spent.
ParlaMint-BA_2010-06-16-0.u35534	I didn't want to use the replica, but I'll do it very briefly, so a minute or two. A man would now look at a stenogram or listen carefully to this discussion and get the impression that we are really discussing public administration reform, system solutions, whether or not to be. If we adopt this solution or don't adopt it, it will be effective, it won't be effective. In my opinion, I may be wrong, but it seems to me that this has nothing to do with it, that it's simply one situation that's trying in a different way than it is now. It reminds me of those times that I remember and that I don't judge either plus or minus, but I remember them, so when self-government agreements were made with an individual to delegate, run, guarantee the place, etc. So it's simply a dilemma about whether or not we're going to allow a man to be guaranteed a job if he doesn't go through with the elections, etc., so we're going to treat it like a layoff. I'm going through this the next way. As it is the right to run, so all of us, here you try to analyze yourself who guaranteed you if you don't pass the list, if you experience a failure in the elections, etc., so those people who work in the state service have the right to run 88, but then you have to do a calculation and you have to be aware that it is also a responsibility, one responsible act and he enters it and no one can guarantee it. After all, our position our club president said. And as important as it seems to SNSD, I see Lazar and he's not here, but we should right away, Slavko, right, say it. Mr. Sokolović, it seemed to me that you told Bakir Izetbegović, president of the Party for BiH Club, so you lost it, so, or let's, go upstairs to our house, our club president is alive and well, and perhaps one day Bakir will cross.
ParlaMint-BA_2010-06-16-0.u35535	Business intervention, distinguished representative Šefik Džaferović.
ParlaMint-BA_2010-06-16-0.u35536	When spoken at a given time, you can only talk about the item of the agenda point, right. However, my colleague Kalabić or our colleague Kalabić, in the absence of arguments when responding to a replica or to someone's thesis, then, whatever comes to his mind, he chases it ahead of him and until it ceases. I ask him to stick to the agenda and only talk about the agenda points. So, past the agenda, he has now introduced into the game and relations within the SDA and the vote on the second law in the Constitutional Commission of the House of Peoples. HONEY
ParlaMint-BA_2010-06-16-0.u35537	/no microphone turned on/
ParlaMint-BA_2010-06-16-0.u35538	Don't you, colleague Kalabić, worry about the relationship between Tihić and me. We'll do it very much, so don't worry about it at all, and I beg you, tell the truth. Look, you didn't tell the truth when you were talking about how to vote on this law on the ban on wearing in the Constitutional Commission of the House of Peoples. The Tihić one wasn't in that session. And the vote was: two "yes", two representatives from the Serb people, one from the Croatian people "restraint" and one from the Bosniak people "against". Tihić was not at the session and Tihić did not vote for the constitutional basis. And that's the real truth and so say the public knows, there's no problem with that. There.
ParlaMint-BA_2010-06-16-0.u35539	New practice. Business intervention. SECHIFIC
ParlaMint-BA_2010-06-16-0.u35540	/no microphone turned on/
ParlaMint-BA_2010-06-16-0.u35541	So, drago, you do the same. HONEY
ParlaMint-BA_2010-06-16-0.u35542	89 [[no microphone turned on]]
ParlaMint-BA_2010-06-16-0.u35543	There were two replicas, here's a business intervention.
ParlaMint-BA_2010-06-16-0.u35544	I'll be very brief. Mr. Džaferović spoke of himself as a lawyer caused my reaction. I said it wasn't good, I was defending that thesis. And now he's transferring to the field so that I can declare Mr. Tihić a drone because he doesn't come to the sessions. No, I won't, don't drag me into that story, please. The session had such a result that the constitutional basis was confirmed. Ours had a result that no constitutional basis was confirmed. Two respected lawyers, not to name them, are here. What's this about? I asked that question because it comes to a level of non-discipline. With this... who's late for work, who doesn't do his job, these pranks, don't drag me into it, who's unemployed and who's coming to meetings and stuff, please.
ParlaMint-BA_2010-06-16-0.u35545	The next debate is distinguished representative Husein Nanić.
ParlaMint-BA_2010-06-16-0.u35546	I thank you, Chairman. What are the ambitions of this law? I read it carefully, and then here's the thing I couldn't keep my mouth shut is when it comes to reasons for law-making. Among other things, I cite three key things, which are claimed here in the reasons that the current solution, says it is contrary to the BiH Constitution, that contrary to international conventions on human and civil rights, it is a second finding, and a third finding that it is unacceptable for a government official to return to the same or similar workplace after the end of the mandate, which puts him in a discriminatory position. We have three very serious findings in this law. So it's unconstitutional, the current situation is unconstitutional, discriminatory, and it violates human rights, it stands in reason. I think this parliament is not the institution that determines this, and it would be good if the check of this current situation was directed to the BiH Constitutional Court of Justice on the legality of existing solutions and thus to remove this suspicion. And those who want this, maybe to get that answer, the decision, and then maybe these attempts to put this situation, or these elements into this law, would be easier to implement. I don't think the current situation is contrary to the Constitution, and I don't think it violates human rights, and I don't think it's discriminatory compared to the executive officers.
ParlaMint-BA_2010-06-16-0.u35547	Thank you. I'm closing the hearing because there are no more reports. I'm asking all MPs to take their seats, maybe they'll sit in some benches they've taken. Moving to the next item of the agenda: 90 Ad. 15. Report on the work of the Management Board of Bosnia and Herzegovina Export Credit Agency for 2009, material number: 01,02-50-3-514/10 of 1. 4. 2010 – Debated debate at 78th session The Management Board of the Export-Credit Agency, in accordance with Article 14(3) of the Law establishing the Export-Credit Agency, provided the 2009 Work Report. At the 78th session of the House, a conclusion has been adopted which postpones the debate on the Report and tasks the Committee on Foreign Trade and Customs to reconsider this issue and delivers a new opinion. The committee responsible delivered its opinion nine. 6th and accepted the report, and proposed to the House to adopt it. I'm opening a debate on the report. Dear Representative Slavko Jovičić.
ParlaMint-BA_2010-06-16-0.u35549	Thank you, Mr. Chairman. Last time could've been anything like today, which would've been said, neat and gone. There was a little misunderstanding about the technical service. We had this management report, and we needed the board of directors, etc., everything got mixed up. Today, here at the session, the chairman of the Management Board is present, just in case there should be clarifications. From the Report, who read (unfortunately, we were not able to technically deliver it to you, it is a book of fat, finely corrected but we couldn't print it, and even if we did not think that many of us would read it) there is a review of all the activities done by the Agency, of course with the Management Board: where the funds are invested, where it is not possible at this time to return these funds, because of the recession, because of this, because of the crisis, how much the Agency has placed, in which areas, for which companies, where there is charging, where there is still no mortgage, because there is a possibility and tendencies, this report was treated in 2009, but that in 2010, little of this economy wakes up. Well, then, there are misunderstandings about this agency being not a credit bank, and under these conditions, it provides funds to boost the export economy and it is essential. So when we got full information from the chairman of the Management Board, along with the management director, we had real insight into the Agency's work. And, of course, we were satisfied completely, and most importantly, the auditors found no single business error, in the work of the Management Board, or management. What will be the subject in the future, since they do not have a lot of resources to help the export economy, that is the basis, somewhere around 51 million marks have total capital that can be placed. Of course, they will appear in another Parliament's call to increase that capital, because they would need more funding, especially now that this economy is awakening, where they should intervene. And what I want to remove, in some media, was, this agency was really headed by the Management Board and the Director wasn't looking at where the funds were going to be placed when it came to this or that entity, this or that municipality, the canton, but wherever anyone showed up, and it was meeting the conditions of 91 that had been laid down by the Rules of Procedure on the work of the entire Agency and management, so it was satisfying and it did everything it could. And we, this is just one explanation for people, for my colleagues and colleagues who haven't had and can't have that book where everything is seen – photos, photos of the company, which deals, how much it's invested, how much they pay back, and another one was just a failure, which they did with the minus last year, and the previous two years in plus, because they released acceptive payment orders on December 28th, and that report entered them in 2009. That's why he's negative. Otherwise, if they had waited just five or six days and released it in January, the report would have been for 2010 and would have had a positive business in 2009. So, in any case, I, not as chairman but as the entire commission, speak for this committee, came to the conclusion after all these clarifications that we needed this agency in the coming period, whoever it is, should be helped, because it's the only agency that stimulates the economy to export. If we don't export, we know what's ahead of us. That is why we should all, perhaps, also from Parliament, see at the Council of Ministers and influence a little bit to strengthen this agency and financially, if necessary and humanely, and if necessary in other ways, because here are the clearest investments. Fortunately, no brand will fail. The funds can be charged, because all these loans are mortgaged, but there is no need to deal with mortgages, the economy needs to be stimulated to move on, and there is a sign that this year will be much better than that report in 2009 that we have already completed. So we gave a positive opinion. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-BA_2010-06-16-0.u35550	Thank you. The next is distinguished representative Husein Nanić.
ParlaMint-BA_2010-06-16-0.u35551	I thank you, Chairman. In the opinion of our committee in charge, it said, among other things, that it unanimously accepted the report on the work of the BiH Agency's Export Credit Management Board. We received the 2010 Business Plan in these documents next to the Report. The commission didn't deal with the team, I don't know if Parliament should deal with the team, because there is a document that is there, so it wasn't about the team. The next thing I think is the important thing in this report and which should be mentioned is – given the situation on the global world and economic market, the money market – there is a problem with the lack of funds. And here there are also three specific actions of the Council of Ministers' Fund in 2009 and they received a negative response. They asked for an amendment to the law, so they got a negative response from the Council of Ministers. They asked the World Bank for the implementation of certain projects, so they got a negative answer. They asked the EBRD for funds, so they also got a negative answer. From the European Commission, related to IPA, means these funds of pre-accession funds, and it is now under way. Since it says here that the 4th month thing would be done, I'd like to hear it, today is the end of the 6th, whether this one with KfW bank, whether the arrangement worked, whether some of the funds were approved to be used. 92 And the next thing you know, there's nothing here in this report that you didn't suggest what could be done, given the situation. It seems to me that this agency and the board of directors are from my humble knowledge in this area, but it's my impression that there's not enough time that we're in today. So, both BiH's economy and the world market situation, both financially and this economy, and there is no solution, there is no answer to that situation. These attempts are, they might have been expected to be like this, but eventually we're used to reports and through information and that's what I think is a good practice to propose a measure. What's this supposed to do? There's nothing I can do. If you are, I'm talking to you, I don't know maybe you are it, I'm not, I don't know who it is. So that's missing in this report. I wish it had been, and I wish our commission had also set itself up around the 2009 Business Plan. _________(?) [[no microphone turned on]] For 2010. It's a business plan. Thank you.
ParlaMint-BA_2010-06-16-0.u35553	Thank you. The next is Honorable Representative Halid Genjac.
ParlaMint-BA_2010-06-16-0.u35554	Thank you. There's one fact in this report that deserves attention, and I think there's a need for further clarification. For the first time last year, the Agency did business with losses. And the most significant problem since December 2009, when calls for a payable guarantee for overdraft credit were made for client P... and payment was made at the invitation of a guarantee of 3,300,000 euros. I have asked the chairman of the Management Board to respond to the state of affairs of this report, in the meantime, from the moment of writing this report to today in the context of the guarantee and these funds, what the perspective of the collection of these funds is and what the Management Board and the Agency is doing. Thank you.
ParlaMint-BA_2010-06-16-0.u35555	Thank you. I don't have any more charges to argue with. Does the president of the board want to speak? Go ahead, Chairman of the Management Board, this way for a pay phone. Mr. Milomir Draganić.
ParlaMint-BA_2010-06-16-0.u35556	Thank you, Mr. Chairman. So I will briefly try to answer the questions of the honourable MPs. 93 As regards the subject matter of the debate, the subject matter excludes the report on the work of the Management Board, and the Management Board's Business Plan is considering each year when it adopts a business plan, but unfortunately it is not a legal obligation to present itself to any body, but rather, the Management Board appreciates how the Agency worked in its business in accordance with the plan adopted a year earlier. Therefore, it is a regular activity and we do so and therefore evaluate the engagement and success of management work. That's one question. As far as other things are concerned, why we haven't processed any more of the things that happened in 2010, it will be the subject of the report, as Mr Slavko Jovičić said, the report on the work of the Management Board that will take place in the 2010 period. We also debated a lot about the conditions for which IGA showed its loss. But unfortunately, it is our legal obligation to present a report on the work for the calendar year 2009. So, we could do it all, but somehow it doesn't fit during that period. This will be given for the work of the Management Board in 2010. Of course, if anyone is particularly interested, we can look back on it, but it's simply not a legal obligation and in the form in which we are bound. What Mr. MP asked the question - why the Agency? Unfortunately, we have 51 million marks and share that money according to the types of products IGA gives. We don't have any more money than that. And we also asked last year (there is a report here on the work of the Board of Ministers) if it can be made possible to additionally allocate funds to IGA because we saw that our production economy is export-oriented and needs more capital. We didn't get a positive answer. We have sought and addressed BiH authorities that IGA in its activity can deal with the security of the BiH state's affairs. Unfortunately, we didn't get a positive answer here either. But here, that doesn't mean we won't repeat that request this year. We think IGA might respond to that request. As far as these extra loans are concerned, here we said we were expecting a positive one. Unfortunately, the financial situation that hit the world economy in 2010 has disabled the placement of these IPA funds, because we did not have some quality European financial institution through which these funds will be placed in IGA. IPA funds were available to us, but we had to find some other financial institution to go through. It was also refused by the IBRD, rejected by the World Bank, rejected by KfW Germany. Which is why we don't know that. They didn't want to be the transfer of these IPA funds and that they're giving us more credit. Whether it's the result of the global financial crisis or the poor political climate in BiH, I don't know, but people have culturally gotten away with it. They said the economic situation and financial situation now do not allow them to enter the arrangement. Here's how much I'd like it. I don't know if there were any more questions.
ParlaMint-BA_2010-06-16-0.u35557	I thank the esteemed chairman of the board of directors. Here we have in the time of the court's report. Dear representative Jukić. 94
ParlaMint-BA_2010-06-16-0.u35558	I'm sorry I didn't answer until I heard some of the answers I was actually expecting, but I didn't get it. And now I would ask again that here's an additional attempt at at least to answer the questions: why all those you addressed, and my question is right in that direction going, what are you doing in a way to increase the capital you can work with, and then more help, etc.? Why are the answers to all the institutions you addressed negatively? Did you try to analyze it, did you try to do something about it, because if you keep doing what you did last year, it means that your capital or property or however you cut by some, I don't know, about 2.7 almost 3 million marks, or, as a percentage, even better express yourself by some, what, 8%, is, or somewhere. So he's shrunk significantly. And I think we should at least do business so you maintain capital at the level of... your assets. But obviously that's not the case. I expected you to now in your address to tell us exactly what you're doing, what your plan is and what the prospects are for the realization of the plans. Certainly, one of the plans, at least I expected it to be, to increase your activity, your capital. But obviously here you have a lot of problems. I wanted to hear what you plan to do next to make it happen anyway. Because without it, everything you've said, it won't be possible to do. So, if you continue to do business, although Mr. Jovičić, as chairman of the Commission, tried to explain your somewhat negative result from last year, etc., it is still quite a questionable explanation, but I would not. So the point of my question is what future is yours. If you have negative answers from all those who should and expect help, both domestic and international, and if you don't have a solution for maybe some kind of restructuring of yourself, some kind of reform to come from you. So, reforming yourself as an institution.
ParlaMint-BA_2010-06-16-0.u35559	Here's the chairman of the board of directors again.
ParlaMint-BA_2010-06-16-0.u35560	Here's what I just did. I owe Mr. Genjac a few minutes ago to answer. As for the loan P... in this company, IGA has been working on the prescribed procedures and has not, at the time of the guarantee for the company, exceeded neither the legal regulations nor the procedures adopted by the Management Board. So that's where you work in a very modern, modern factory that's been working on wood processing, furniture and parquetry. And she started well, worked, but last year, before last year, the end of last year, she started losing the market because of this situation and they simply stopped working and couldn't respond to the funds given by our guarantee. Now this firm? IGA has secured its placement, we have a mortgage that is more valuable than a loan. But we on the Management Board, when we discussed it, didn't stop at the point that IGA now had to sign up for property in its books and deal with furniture production, but to try to wait, to reprogram the debt for the company to start at some point. And here, we have the data now that this company is starting to work. So it took a little patience. Unfortunately, we paid that guarantee on her behalf, but I mean this, we didn't 95 downplay our founding stake of 51 million marks. IGA acted positively and did business in previous years and achieved the reserve fund from which it covered this loss. So, we can only place 51 million and the reserve fund is mandatory, it's kept for exactly this kind of situation. We can't place it. This means virtually dead capital held for risky banking and similar transactions. Therefore, we have this parliament, from this government given 51 million to us. And that's not questionable. It's always in some posters. Now, in order for us to develop now, in order for management to do something else, to say, better jobs, it has to have more capital, and unfortunately there is no capital. The founders are RS, the Federation and the BiH Parliament. So, as much as the founder gives us money, we have so much. We can't share anymore. _________(?) What are the demands? [[no microphone turned on]] Well, I don't know by heart now, so here's the director. There's probably a lot more demands. However, all those demands, so I don't know,... The Management Board does not deal with individual requirements, nor do we know how much by heart now. There's a list there, if you're interested, he can deliver it to management, so you can see what the demands are. As for the risk of IGA exposure on the market, you must be aware that it is far greater than the commercial banks, because the IGAs of this Parliament are given to monitor the most difficult sector. This is the manufacturing sector facing exports. You know, it would be easy for management to do a good job if we were to place money, say, import luxury goods. There would be no risk, believe me. That's what people would do very well. So we have to support the production that is export-oriented, in most cases where commercial banks don't or don't have a big, say, interest. And that's why I'm asking you, we can't look at IGA as a commercial bank that works in its own interest, but we have to answer some other demands, so we can help whoever's doing something and exporting it: there's no money, we can pull it out, bring some money to this country. And we would easily agree on board and management. We'd know what to do with the 51 million and where to place if we could. If there's someone and individually, I really don't know, there's Mrs. Lamija, I mean, the board of directors don't... Thank you.
ParlaMint-BA_2010-06-16-0.u35562	I thank the President of the Management Board and conclude the debate on this agenda point. Moving to the 16th point of the agenda: 96 Ad. 16. Report on the implementation of the law in charge of the Central Election Commission for 2009 – material number: 01,02-50-3-578/10 of 19. 4. 2010 The Central Election Commission of BiH submitted a report on the implementation of the law in accordance with Article 29.15 of the Election Law. The Constitutional Commission delivered Opinion 14. 6th and accepted the report and proposed to the House to adopt it. I'm opening a debate on the report. Dear Representative, Rifat Dolić.
ParlaMint-BA_2010-06-16-0.u35564	Gentlemen Chairman, colleagues and colleagues, distinguished guests, we have before us a quality report with good analytical indicators from which we can look at the right state in the area of law enforcement in the jurisdiction of the Central Election Commission. I am particularly pleased that we also have quality recommendations from the CEC people, but I wonder what they are for and what recommendations they make when no one or any of them is paying attention. I will present several of my observations on this CEC report in areas where I believe there are problems that the CEC and legislator should pay more attention to. I think the registration of voters in the post office or in absentia is still an under-arranged and insufficiently organised issue of the CEC. I understand that this is a specific business, but I am a personal witness and I have seen a large number of examples in which a CEC registrator has not received a registration and, of course, no voting material. I had seen a large number of examples where registries did not after the confirmation of registration to the designated address never get voting material and the most strange thing is when registries at their addresses get voting material the day before, on election day or five or even more days after the election. Not only are these examples strange, but they seem depressing and demoting to diaspora voters, even those who are persistently registering for the vote. A part of this report, which discusses the implementation of decisions and solutions by the CEC, states that two appeals are in the process at the end of 2009 before the BiH Constitutional Court. I would ask the president and members of the CEC what about the appeal of the BiH Democratic People's Community, which was submitted to the Constitutional Court in 2005. The Democratic People's Community was then properly informed by the court that the appeal was received and legally completed, but there was no legal or written act on this case from neither the CEC court nor the CEC. I must also briefly refer to a part of this report, which may be the most interesting and important at this time and concerns the application of the Law on conflict of interest in BiH's institutions. 97 I hope that this debate in this way does not make me a conflict of interest because I am personally under a pronounced inadequacy of the CEC for the alleged conflict of interest. Personally, as a man and as an MP, I sign everything and the word mentioned in the report under this title of the CEC of BiH's observations, objectives, CEC recommendations, etc. It says that the Law on Conflict of Interest in BiH is one of the most rigorous laws in BiH, that it does not comply with other laws and regulations, that certain provisions of the law are inaccurate and unclear, that its addition is necessary, etc. In particular, it calls for the severity of the sanctions imposed by the CEC, as a reason for these issues to be addressed more urgently. Gentlemen, I have to ask you and all of us what these findings are for, who, because of these shortcomings, is detested by the citizens and the public, or has been given a sanction that is contrary to the Constitution and fundamental human rights? They say a man sees best when he personally presses something and the most expensive school is on his own faults. I am motivated by my own dealings with radical, incomplete, ambiguous and political solutions in the Law of Conflict of Interest have made an insight into a total of 17 laws on conflict of interest in EU countries and environments, and some other countries, and then it must simply be asked: is it possible that he himself participated in the adoption of such a law, as we do today in BiH? Another problem is the law we have in BiH today, as it is. I'm just going to give you one typical example. As a key basis for the process of applying the existing CEC conflict of interest law, it serves as a data form for selected officials and their relatives. We have a situation here that a large number of elected officials are not thinking of filling out this form, because no legal consequences are foreseen for this. A large number of those who fill out the form fill it out so that the whole life can be calm from the dangers of conflict of interest. I personally worked very hard to get to the birth numbers of the children I wanted, some of whom I didn't even know because they were born in America. When I complained to my colleague on the way, he laughed and said, "You're not filling that in, are you? When I recently got a glimpse from the CEC that this large number of elected officials are not fair at all and that some of them are doing it, then I realized until the end what I didn't want to realize by then, that it wasn't worth being in this country if it wasn't fair, then at least a transparent politician. I did not say this to draw attention to my case, nor to devalue even counterpart Nanić's demagogue on pre-election and moral policies and politicians. This is what I have said and put forward only to support these observations of the CEC and in particular CEC recommendations, but also to say that the Law on Conflict of Interest in BiH is too important and serious a question, both for the fight against crime and corruption, and for the elected officials, that anyone with this law would play politics and implement it in the way it is today in BiH. So, as far as I'm concerned, this is high-quality information, i.e. the report, valuable praises and valuable roles of the CEC in a democratic society, but with all this I cannot accept the two-facedness that the CEC openly acknowledges in the information. I cannot accept, as a man and as an MP, that the Central Election Commission in the Report states and correctly determines the diagnosis under which the Law on conflict of interest in BiH institutions is both cataract and unspecified, rigorous, incompatible with other laws and regulations and others, and then accepts the role of being an executioner under such a law. The role of the CEC can therefore not be reduced to law enforcement or execution in the worst case, but the CEC must also play an initiator and active creator of the legal regulation 98 in this area. And, uh, it's actually my basic objection to this report and to this work of the CEC. In a particular case, therefore, the CEC correctly determines the situation, determines the diagnosis and makes recommendations and thus completes its mission and, on the other hand, I think that the CEC's competences and, as they allow, do so, and require more active access to these issues, if not directly, then through this Parliament or through the Council of Ministers. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-BA_2010-06-16-0.u35565	Thank you. The next is distinguished representative Šefik Džaferović.
ParlaMint-BA_2010-06-16-0.u35566	Mr. Chairman, colleagues and colleagues, ladies and gentlemen, the Constitutional Commission discussed the Central Election Commission's 2009 report on the implementation of the law under the Central Election Commission's authority. And I would ask that two things be separated in the debate on this issue. So, the report on the implementation of the law under the responsibility of the Central Election Commission (so the Election Law, the Law on conflict of interest, the Law on the financing of political parties, and it seems to me that there is a Law on the Council of Ministers of BiH) of some of our perhaps individual, perhaps group pleasures or dissatisfactions, because these are two completely different things. We as Members of Parliament are in a position to create the work of this institution, to bring laws, to give it tasks, to follow it, and to see what is right and what is wrong, but sometimes since the laws apply to us too, it is very important to separate these two things from us. We are talking today about the Central Election Commission of BiH, we are talking about the application of the law by the institution in BiH. ... Whenever I get a report from the Election Commission, I remember in 2003 when, I would say, for the first time without foreigners, we started dealing with the Election Commission in BiH and when we actually hit the foundations of this and this election commission in BiH. In 2003, we connected the Election Commission with the BiH Parliamentary Assembly's House of Representatives, and this is the only institution that has jurisdiction over the Election Commission. And, the Election Commission has held local elections since then, and that's the thing that has to be seen here and said, successfully in 2004, so in 2004 it held local elections, held local elections, 2006 general elections, in 2008 local elections again, without foreigners, so the domestic institution, and that's the first thing to be determined. And when we talk about this that way, I can say that we are also the Central Election Commission and we as parliament, and we as a state passed the exam. Because holding democratic elections in one country, a country in transition, a post-war society, and not having problems, the results being, they say, completely and legally and legitimate, to be institutionally closed and blended in in the right way and to get recognitions is a big deal. Many countries in the world cannot pass the exam as states because they have an election problem. With us here in BiH it was done on the right and I would say it in a satisfactory way, because the results established by our Election Commission are actually the results of which sometimes some objections to the Court of BiH and to this end. So that's a big deal, that's what we have to figure out. 99 We have a problem with the Law of Conflict of Interest. I'd say we have a partial problem with the Law on the financing of political parties, but that's not the election commission problem, that's the problem with us. And we need to settle those questions. The Election Commission itself says in its report here that the Law on Conflict of Interest is some sort of problematic law and that is why we should not accuse the Election Commission. We can't give the electoral commission a law in the hands of a radical law on conflict of interest to the Electoral Commission and tell it - apply it! So when it starts to apply it, then we get mad at the Electoral Commission and not ourselves for passing such a law and not for not changing it. So we have to address things and set them right. I would ask all my colleagues and all of us to take a good look: each of these laws that apply has its final consideration in this report and ultimately there are general recommendations. This was written before we did some things here in Parliament but the recommendations are still current, regardless of what the Law on the financing of political parties had such a path as it had. So he didn't have the capacity he was supposed to have. No matter what the Law on the conflict of interest of the Interresor Working Group has experienced, it is an ongoing problem and we need to deal with it in a way that needs to be dealt with. And one thing that is new in BiH's electoral legislation, which I am not satisfied with when the Election Commission's activity is at stake here in Parliament, is the vote of our citizens in diplomatic and consular representations and the activities that should be taken, but not only by the Election Commission but also by the BiH Ministry of Foreign Affairs and all of us, so that as many citizens as possible can be animated to vote, who do not live in BiH, the citizens of BiH, who have the right to vote, who live outside BiH. What was in the last election is not satisfactory. And I call on the Central Election Commission to work together with the Foreign Ministry to do everything in their power to make such a campaign and such a climate that as many BiH citizens as possible vote in diplomatic and consular representations as possible in the upcoming 2010 elections. That's it, thank you.
ParlaMint-BA_2010-06-16-0.u35567	Thank you. I don't have any more logs. I use the opportunity here to include this item of the agenda to welcome here the presence of the president and members of the Central Election Commission who have carefully listened to all your remarks and I believe they will respect them in the next activities. I'm closing this agenda point, and we're moving on to the 17th point of the agenda: Ad. 17. Information on the state of security in Bosnia and Herzegovina in 2009 – material number: 01,02-04-635/10 of 30. 4. 2010 100 The BiH Council of Ministers is 30. 4. delivered Information, responsible Joint Defence and Security Committee Opinion delivered 15. 6, with two conclusions adopted, reads: 'The Joint Defence and Security Commission takes note of the 2009 Information on the Security State of BiH in the proposed content and form, and points to further parliamentary procedure. The Council of Ministers shall be responsible for improving existing legal solutions as soon as possible to refer to the parliamentary procedure of the legislative proposal referred to in part of the information relating to the measures and actions for the first six months of 2010, namely the Proposal for a Law on Amendments and Supplements to the Law on Criminal Procedure, the Proposal for a Law on Amendments and Supplements to the Law on Prevention, Prevention and Abuse of Intoxication, the Proposal for a Law on Amendments and Supplements to the Law on Border Control, and the Proposal for a Law amending and supplementing the Law on the State Agency for Investigation and Protection.' I'm opening an information debate. Dear Representative Šefik Džaferović.
ParlaMint-BA_2010-06-16-0.u35569	Dear colleagues and colleagues, this time as deputy chairman of the Joint Commission for the Defence and Security of the Parliamentary Assembly of BiH, which discussed this information, I propose to the House that it take note of the proposals submitted by our commission. And I want to distract my colleagues, and my colleagues, of course, on a few important details from all this. So, the first detail is that the total number of crimes in the reporting period in BiH has been reduced compared to the same period of previous information. And on the other hand, we could say that we have a more favourable security situation in BiH. However, several trends, let's say, have been reduced by the number of these crimes of murder, which is a very important thing and it's very good that this trend is in decline. There's not a single murder that isn't enlightened, and that's how it's supposed to go on. But what concerns is the increased number of items of arms, illegal or illegal weapons supplied, which is clearly seen from this information. And the other thing that is very worrying is the issue of a slightly worse picture of public order and peace in BiH compared to previous information. And I would like to see this parliament, with all these conclusions adopted by this committee, draw specific conclusions or a special conclusion that in all those areas where the situation is worse compared to the previous reporting period, it makes up an additional analysis and see why it is so in BiH. Why did BiH, for example, grow again this year, although last year, it was in decline a few years ago, but in the year in which this report is being observed again, the number of car theft crimes has increased again? We have to deal with it. Why? We have to ask ourselves a question here once - why? And next time instead of this information, let's all go as Parliament to deal with this only question to see why we have increased the number of thefts of these cars? Why do we have a worse state of public order and peace in BiH? Just that we're dealing with, 101 sometimes we don't see trees from the woods, and I think that's where we're supposed to go today, so here you as a College try to figure something out as a conclusion on this subject. That those areas in which it is worse, therefore partially observed, the security situation compared to the previous period should be subject to a specific analysis of the ministry, the Council of Ministers and us as Parliament. Thank you.
ParlaMint-BA_2010-06-16-0.u35570	Thank you. If you have a proposal for a conclusion, suggest and deliver. The next is Honorable Representative Adem Huskić.
ParlaMint-BA_2010-06-16-0.u35571	Thank you, Mr. Chairman. BERIZ
ParlaMint-BA_2010-06-16-0.u35572	/no microphone turned on/
ParlaMint-BA_2010-06-16-0.u35573	Some seem to have become hyperactive, trying to catch up with some figures there in that report by the Centre of Civil Initiatives, so it's hard to reach them today. But, well, here you go, feel free to suggest a conclusion if you have one. Go on, Your Honor, Representative Huskić.
ParlaMint-BA_2010-06-16-0.u35574	Mr. Chairman, I agree that we have a little time left to fix our rating at the Civil Initiative Centre, so here we go. I think this is a very important area and it's important this information that speaks about the state of security in BiH and I think that we as Parliament have been sufficiently often and sufficiently quality, I think, dealt with this topic, this issue, but it's such a question that it's never enough. Because the state of security, in my opinion, is one way of statistics, right, so these figures show, they're just reflections, but security is, in general, it's more feeling, more feeling than numbers. And if we know that, then, when a man has a sense of uncertainty, no figures can or can hardly convince him. I think that this report is a good picture of the state of security in BiH and that it is quality done, perhaps one of the best, one of the best reports, I think that the Defence and Security Commission has made good conclusions and we need to support them and I think maybe even beyond that, especially as far as car theft is concerned, which is being talked about by counterpart Džaferović. Believe me, I have often thought about stealing cars as there has been an increase, because I have a very negative experience, not only do I have a colleague, Dolić. I think the two of us were thinking the most about what led to the increase and we didn't come... _________(?) 102 ADEM [[no microphone turned on]] We made a personal contribution to these numbers here. But what I think should be said about this report, and what's not in this report, is the following. We, or as far as this area is concerned about visa liberalisation, have indeed done great results lately, and let me just remind myself, which is why I have reported the most, that BiH has received a very high assessment of the fight against human trafficking these days. We are now ranked in rank 1, we were... in the third category of countries, and that's what we should do in some way... and this Parliament to affirm, to send a public one, I would say, positive message and say that citizens and there are not too many reasons to be concerned... as much as they sometimes present themselves. Of course, one bad event happens to create a bad climate, but there are good things and we need to affirm them, as there are bad ones. And if we're talking about these types of crime, I think it's better to increase the number, if something has to increase, then increase the number of stolen cars than some other stuff. Thank you.
ParlaMint-BA_2010-06-16-0.u35576	Thank you. The next is distinguished representative Denis Bećirović.
ParlaMint-BA_2010-06-16-0.u35577	I believe that we are also aware in this House as are the vast majority of citizens in this country that the state of security in BiH has never been worse in the last 10 years than it is today. Unfortunately, it could not hide this haired report on the state of security in BiH, which we have on our benches and we need to discuss today. In this regard, it is particularly interesting to open a serious topic like this, without having a single minister in the O.R., that we have no Prime Minister, no Minister of Security. And it is absolutely certain that such a topic requires the least presence of the Minister of Security, because how now to ask a number of questions that are objectively imposed if there are no representatives of the Council of Ministers. That's why I've even been thinking that we should postpone this agenda until we have the minister in charge here in the O.R. So, in this report, which I said was in one piece of hair, I quote, 'the muggings have grown significantly compared to last year, even by one-third.' The report said no economic crime growth has been halted, not even remained at the same level but has increased by almost 4% throughout BiH. And only criminal acts in this area have acquired an illegal property benefit of more than 6 million KM, which is very dangerous, which is in this report. In 2009, information was also collected to confirm the presence of corruption among individual members of law enforcement agencies. This is a very serious finding in this report, and it certainly deserves a much wider design and a proposal for measures to remove this, which only speaks of the scales of crime in this country. Not to mention the increased illegal trade in high-tariff goods, the largest number of 103 organised criminal groups involved in human trafficking, drug trafficking, theft, car trafficking, and illegal trafficking. The state of public order and peace is more unfavourable in 2009 and there has been an increase in the number of violations by 5.2% compared to the previous year. So that's all the data that stands in this report. Specially interesting is this assessment in this report that new information has been collected in 2009 to confirm the presence of corruptive behaviour of individual law enforcement agencies, as well as some of the BiH inspection bodies' employees. So this finding is already mentioned twice in this report. The terrorism section says that according to data available to security agencies in BiH and the BiH Security Agency in 2009 no criminal acts that can be classified as international terrorism have been committed. So I quote, "The agencies have not even come up with any confirmatory data that in BiH, at present, our space for preparing such acts has been used." Now that we have, that we do not now specify all of this on page 10th and 11 of this report on terrorist activities, etc., the question arises why about 700 officers were hired in the largest police operation since Dayton until today, on February 2nd of this year in an action called Light? As you know, SDP MP Dr. Zlatko Lagumdžija asked for information on the action. And after a month of asking for the Minister of Security, I have here this memo, informs Parliament, all of us, that on March 3rd, a month later, there is currently no information about the action Light but that it will soon provide credible information about the action Light. Here's another month, then another month, here's over three months, and we don't have any information here about that action Light. We know that it was the conclusion of this House, it seems to me that there was no MP against that conclusion. And the question is, how are we going to deal with our conclusions here? I intend to talk about the security situation, and perform such a police operation and then tell the citizens that it was done because of the destruction, quote, 'constitutional order' and that there is no one in this Parliament, even after Parliament's conclusion, information from the Council of Ministers and the competent ministry is truly unserious. That is why, within this item of the agenda, where this report also discusses activities in the first six months of 2010, and even about the intentions and measures for the other six months of this year, today we need to give an answer to what we are going to do about this information, whether we are all going to settle our shoulders and say, well, we are going to draw conclusions, and the ministries, or, specifically, the ministry will not respect the conclusions of this Parliament, or we are going to come to some serious conclusion on this issue today.
ParlaMint-BA_2010-06-16-0.u35578	Thank you. No more reports, closing the hearing. Moving to the 18th point of the agenda: 104 Ad. 18. Information on the establishment of responsibilities within the Office for the Review of BiH Appeals for not implementing the provisions of the positive rules concerning the regular rotation procedure at the head position of the Office, with a proposal from the Council of Ministers for Resolution Dr. Amira Pilava, member of the BiH Appeal Office, material number: 01,02-50-3-631/10 of 29. 4. 2010 The BiH Council of Ministers delivered the Information to 29. 4. In 2010, with a proposal to resolve Dr. Amir Pilav as a member of the BiH Appeal Office. The Constitutional Legal Commission as the Competent Opinion delivered 14. Six. 2010 The commission supported the information and conclusion of the Council of Ministers on determining responsibility in the BiH Appeals Office. Today we receive information and pursuant to Article 49. The law on public procurement is being voted on by a member of the Office to consider the complaints of Dr. Amir Pilav. I'm opening a debate. There are no reports and I'm closing the hearing. _________(?) [[no microphone turned on]]
ParlaMint-BA_2010-06-16-0.u35581	Dear Chairman, distinguished colleagues and colleagues, honored guests, here I think this is the first time in a year that we have discussed the Board of Appeals; for the first time we have discussed its effectiveness and you remember the report where we praised the Office for solving about 1200 complaints. And we gave, we gave a confession, here's to say, to that office and to those people who are in the office. Today I was found, or not today, but when we got these materials, to seek the replacement of the director for one simple reason because he did not honor the shift and rotation at... the place of executive staff in the office. I'd say it's okay to ask, but I'm asking the question why hasn't the General Council of Ministers been asked, why doesn't he adhere to the law, he's not taking shifts, rotating shifts there in all the institutions he's in charge of? I think we have... a lot of things. We have cases that the Council of Ministers has not appointed directors who have already expired their mandate, so nothing. And that's why I don't think this question should be observed in this context of one man and one office, is the results there exceptional, at least according to what we've come to the conclusion, take a conclusion and read it, very good. But I'd like to ask and say that I'm looking, here as an MP, for the responsibility of the Council of Ministers for not implementing the positive rules regarding regular rotation procedures at the top of the post. In that context, when we have all the places that aren't rotated, then let's discuss this, and I'm just saying that if the Council of Ministers respected this and other ministries, then 105 and we sanction this case because he didn't respect it. But so we're just going to that because suddenly this question is now being put on the table as a very important question, and here I'm saying the results behind this stand, I don't think I can accept this shift proposal. Thank you.
ParlaMint-BA_2010-06-16-0.u35582	Thank you. The next is distinguished representative Šefik Džaferović.
ParlaMint-BA_2010-06-16-0.u35583	Thank you, Mr. Chairman. My colleagues and colleagues, ladies and gentlemen, just before I say about this item on the agenda, I mean, don't transfer some of the things that don't stand for these reports to the Centre of Civil Initiatives. That was interesting until it was first published, and now it's known to measure and it's no longer interesting. So I'm not standing up here today to be measured there, but because I really think I should work and I'd ask you to keep this in mind. And when it's Wednesday this part of the agenda, people, there's something wrong here, I mean, I don't know what. But something out there is wrong, four years are waiting, four years are being watched, we're adopting a report here in Parliament, we're constantly pointing to problems, we're not solving a problem if there is a problem, and suddenly there's a demand to change a man from that position. Why hasn't the Council of Ministers dealt with this problem for the past four years? What's in it for me? There's something wrong with me here. I'm not consistent here. There have been other cases that have not been to the Council of Ministers, let alone at Parliament here. And I voted against this information and a proposal for conclusions. I think it would be totally unfair and inhuman to have us replaced for these reasons by a member of this body, right? This requires his elimination from that body, and at the same time, let's not discuss why this happened, what it was. And if we wanted to get out of this properly and if we wanted to be honest to the end, then maybe it would be best if we formed one group to examine the responsibility of everyone, if we were to talk about responsibility, start with the Council of Ministers, the Service, and that office. And not like this, by the live tissue of such an axe cap, let's remove the man and solve the problem. We haven't solved the problem, so there's something here that I can't figure out. I listened to Mr. Kutleša and I, I listened to this man and I... The sawmill that's been here a few times, we've adopted his reports many times here, so it would be very unfair if we did so today. I suggest we reject this information and report from the Council of Ministers. Thank you.
ParlaMint-BA_2010-06-16-0.u35584	Thank you. The next is distinguished representative Husein Nanić. 106
ParlaMint-BA_2010-06-16-0.u35585	I thank you, Chairman. I will in my discussion mean some things may be explained wider or from another angle, as my colleague Bešlagić said. And I wish before this information we had had information about the responsibility of the chairman of the Council of Ministers which had not been appointed for several months by the Deputy Chairman-in-Office of the Council of Ministers. Why is not appointed director of the Directorate for indirect taxation, why is not appointed director of the Regulatory Agency for Communications, why is it not appointed a member of the State Regulatory Agency for Electricity, why the Council of the Regulatory Agency for Communications is not appointed, etc. And so close? And it would really be one good piece of information then, and then this information could be discussed in that context. But to draw out this one, with all the respect for some of the things that stand and some that are even questionable with my information, is really one politics and a whole other intention. And for this reason, I call on the Council of Ministers to provide us with all this information and to establish its responsibility for non-compliance with this and many other functions not appointed and appointed by the Council of Ministers and standing in the drawers of the Council of Ministers. Thank you.
ParlaMint-BA_2010-06-16-0.u35586	Thank you. Replica, Slavko Jovičić.
ParlaMint-BA_2010-06-16-0.u35587	Thank you, Mr. Chairman. Well, I have no intention of defending the Council of Ministers. At least in public, his inability to relieve and place directors in these key places in various agencies is constantly present, and it is almost daily heard. And small children almost know how long the term of office has already expired for the director of this agency or they, or the Directorate for indirect taxation, or this or that. I will support Nanic's proposal when it comes to the Council of Ministers, and only to falsify the full responsibility of a man who is powerless, here he said powerless. Now, I'm asking, if it were in our jurisdiction, would we be powerful, would we be powerful? He says, two years there, somewhere three, somewhere a year and a half, now that I'm not quoting you, all of it is known, it's not possible to set up a man to replace that. The complaints about this director, the complaints about that, legal, illegal, deposited signature still in the bank, came second, didn't come, the union showed up in public, which is worst, says, we sent a letter to Parliament. Neither have I seen as an MP a memo, nor do I need him, nor can I do with him what I can do with him, but in public, he says, Parliament will not help the union of the Directorate for indirect taxation there. There are countless things that are solved in public, and they're just invoiced to us. When we're responsible, let everyone attack publicly, here's the call. When we don't owe anything to the Rules of Procedure or by law or by the Constitution to do anything at all, we're guilty again. My kolega Nanić, that's why this is not a replica, but just to correct, not the chairperson of the Council of Ministers who is powerless, can really do nothing to them, to replace anyone, but to the whole Council of Ministers and, of course, if they can't, and it's clear that they can't, can we? 107 Here's what I'm going to say: neither can we. And where are we? In a stalemate, that's why this is happening, so come this information, give this man a change now, so if it went hand in hand that Parliament was able to do it, then we'd come to the next session just to replace you and set you up, so we would turn into the Staff Committee of Ministers, or I don't know, some state institution, and we have some state employment agencies, we don't have a discharge, we don't fire anyone, we're just receiving. We've got all kinds of stuff and problems, so it's impossible to solve all this information. And I'll end up, Mr. Špirić, I don't think I'm defending myself, but he's the least guilty here, because he's powerless, he can't replace anyone, he's not the classic Prime Minister, so let him say, "I choose the composition of the government." No one chooses. She sent him a party of this, the other one, and almost, the end point.
ParlaMint-BA_2010-06-16-0.u35588	The next replica is the esteemed representative Husein Nanić.
ParlaMint-BA_2010-06-16-0.u35589	I thank you, Chairman. My replica refers to the incorrect allegations by Mr. Jovičić, who says the chairman of the Council of Ministers is unable to do so. Mr. Jovičić, under exclusive jurisdiction, was signed by the Council of Ministers chairman for the appointment of the Deputy Chairman-in-Office of the Council of Ministers. And it's been a few months, you know it well, and these other things I agree with you that it's not just his responsibility, it's the responsibility of others in the BiH state.
ParlaMint-BA_2010-06-16-0.u35590	Next is Honorable Representative Momčilo Novaković.
ParlaMint-BA_2010-06-16-0.u35591	Thank you, Mr. Chairman. First of all, I don't understand why my colleague Jovičić doesn't think of defending the Council of Ministers, if he were mine, I would defend him, I think he's from my party. So, here's to going back... to a specific agenda point. I must say, this man here is not the only one who can't be replaced. So there are some institutions at this point that are not being replaced and there's no way they're changing. And it is likely that this assembly of Parliament will end, meaning, its mandate and that this part of the work will not be completed, that people will remain in those functions, so when the next term comes by the time it comes, they count on it, that it will take a little longer. He's not here for me, nor is the Council of Ministers' sincere wish to end this issue. Because if we look at Conclusion 3, which says: "The Secretary General of the Council of Ministers is in charge of sending the information to the Parliamentary Assembly of BiH, with a proposal for Dr Amir Pilav to discharge 108 of the duties of a member of the Board of Appeals." It is clear that the Council of Ministers does not take that concrete step, which is to deliver a decision on Mr. Pilav's resolution as chairman. As we had a decision to resolve the minister, I don't know who we didn't take, so we had this decision, so that decision, so it's quite logical here that we have a decision that we're going to vote on whether we respect or not. If we choose him, and if we don't choose him, if we don't choose him means, or if we solve him here, then, please, it's not possible that the man here is nobody else's, so that no one can agree that solution, I speak between the parties of the parliamentary majority, of course, I think. So there is, in my opinion, no sincere intention of the Council of Ministers to resolve this issue, a team that has been going on for almost four years now. If we see here that the Council of Ministers adopted this Rules of Procedure, it means 24, or has given consent to the proposal for a regulation, not the Rules of Procedure, of this Regulation 24. 5. In 2007, it's been three years since the Council of Ministers gave its consent to that rule, which defines among other things and the rotation here. For three years, the issue has been going somewhere between the Council of Ministers, the competent ministry and the Office of Appeals. And after three years, we realize that man has persisted in his intention to remain at the head of this institution. And indeed, there is nothing left for me but to congratulate a man on perseverance, to congratulate him for having succeeded in this sea of different regulations, in this slalom to pass a little, counting on the revision, a little bit on this way of work of the Council of Ministers, a little on the behavior of the commission which was and, of course, finally, in this home. As far as I'm concerned, I will support this information and any other information that is on the trail that what is defined by law is done, including rotations and changes of executives in other institutions, means, not just in this one. Today we have this, when we have about the indirect tax administration, when we have about each other, so this is what Mr. Nanić was talking about, I will support. Of course, if all of this is true, and it is true, I don't understand how the chairman still sits in the chair's seat. Thank you.
ParlaMint-BA_2010-06-16-0.u35592	Replica, distinguished representative Slavko Jovičić.
ParlaMint-BA_2010-06-16-0.u35593	Thank you, Mr. Chairman. You, Mr. Novaković, know that I highly appreciate you as a politician, of course, and as a man, but we are all here when someone comes to the discussion, I didn't mean to answer because before me, someone said something, and this one keeps going and breaks the term. So I didn't mean to defend Mr. Špirić, but through the discussion he defended, not to defend, but to defend the position that man is powerless to do so. But I expected that you as an experienced politician, indeed, who prepares well, to defend Mr Špirić as a man from the same party, because you were in a party together for a while, so that you could come back at that time earlier and defend. And I, don't mind me, I just became a member of the SNSD officially on 12 May this year, and I have to build my position, too, I can't now, let's go until I was officially a member of the SNSD. Now 109 on 12 May received a booklet, now I have to go to Nikola Špirić, Mr Špirić did the right job, showed the results, he was powerless to do this, finish, and I think he justified the place he was in, so he couldn't do anything else. What he did, he did. We can't change him at all, and if anyone wants to, here's what I'm not giving up right now. And his mandate is over, and so will our quick term, so we don't need to, Mr. Novaković, I wouldn't say anything, because you said it before me, but here you are before me, but I said it too. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-BA_2010-06-16-0.u35594	Thank you. The next is distinguished representative Salko Sokolović.
ParlaMint-BA_2010-06-16-0.u35595	Thank you, Mr. Chairman. Here, I will remind us that at the 50th session of the House of Representatives, I have taken out this information, that was on 1 April 2009, we have reached conclusions concerning the problem because we were then discussing this report on the issue of the Office for the Review of Appeals and, among other things, we have commissioned the Council of Ministers to take over the activities necessary for the entry into force of the Regulation on the internal organisation of the Office for the Review of Appeals. Second, the Council of Ministers was tasked by the Council of Ministers to resolve any outstanding issues in the Office for the Review of Appeals, which concern the compliance of the Internal Organisation Regulation of the Office for the Review of Appeals, and to ensure that all rights arising from the working status of employees in this Office are enjoyed and that the Council of Ministers has tasked that all sublegal acts relating to the work of the Board of Appeal be brought into line with the EU legal nomenclature. And that was before the 29th session, because we're holding a 79th session today. So, in this period, the Council of Ministers has done nothing to make these conclusions and what has today become a point of the agenda here for consideration is this particular situation: the unrealised conclusions of the Council of Ministers, adopted by this House. I'll just remind you that the Board of Appeal prepared this rule at the beginning of 2007. I know this issue well because I am a member of the Commission. The proposal for a regulation on the internal organisation was then adopted by the Management Board, agreed by the head of the EU expert team, etc., the Ministry of Justice made certain remarks on that Regulation. That regulation was discussed by the Council of Ministers at its 11th session of 24. 5. In 2007, he was accepted and said to install remarks from the Justice Ministry. The Justice Ministry agreed with the Council of Ministers' position from this 11th session, however, the Ministry of Justice subsequently intervened again on that rule, and then there is a problem that has come into play here until the day-to-day within the Office, when it comes to the final application of this Regulation, and what is happening to us here today, at the request of the Council of Ministers, we need to resolve a man from office because the Council of Ministers has failed to fulfil their obligation, because within the Justice Ministry they have not completed their task or have further complicated their opinion by giving an opinion under the rules that the Office of Review of Appeals obtained in 2007 and that is one, here is that I do not include any further all this problem which my predecessors have spoken about, a gap in which should be the ultimate loser man who has been persistently for many years, as Mr. Novaković said, chairman of the Office, a man who has not had been responsible for five years ago. I think and agree with those who say that the Council of Ministers is responsible for the situation in the Office for considering complaints for the simple reason that there are no positive legal regulations that can be done there. By listing the Public Procurement Act, you can find it very easy to find that here and there is no rotation, so no rotation is foreseen. You have the obligation of the Council of Ministers since January of this year to appoint a deputy and chairman. Therefore, if we are going to seek responsibility she is quite in another place and this man should be allowed to work until someone adopts positive legal regulations that will recognise his responsibility, here is how this here today was supposed to be presented, and I hope that the MPs will read this report, getting to know each other through discussions of MPs with the situation in the Office, refuse this request and responsibility in the other direction. Thank you, Mr. Chairman.
ParlaMint-BA_2010-06-16-0.u35596	Replica, Mr. Živković.
ParlaMint-BA_2010-06-16-0.u35597	Here at this point in the agenda at least three things have become much clearer. First, the weakness of the state administration because the Agency for Appeals on several occasions here was the subject of debate and the subject of criticism. Secondly, the way the international community affects things in BiH is not by adopting a law on public procurement, not by good and bad solutions that cause these problems. And third, political inconsistency, primarily the U.S.A. In previous points, we talked about depolitizing civil servants. The man is a civil servant and is not a representative of any party, he should be. All the speakers so far were in front of the U.S.A. defending the same state official from the position of politics. Then let's be clear, either the state service has nothing to do with politics, or we don't want to admit that there are policies in the state service and that, in the end, at the SNSD proposal, we turn it into amendments and that it can eventually be. So three things are clear here, the question is, do we have the courage to admit them? SECHIFIC
ParlaMint-BA_2010-06-16-0.u35598	/no microphone turned on/
ParlaMint-BA_2010-06-16-0.u35599	Are you done, Džaferović? You did. Thank you. Replica, Momčilo Novaković.
ParlaMint-BA_2010-06-16-0.u35600	Thank you. Look, colleague Sokolović spoke about this information and spoke of the part of the information which, of course, speaks in favour of the opposite position of the Council of Ministers, that is, this proposal from the Council of Ministers. Now it is likely that the representative of the Council of Ministers who read here from this 111 information would be what goes in favor of the information provided by the Council of Ministers, and one thing and another is written right here in this report. So, it is evident that, as counterpart Džaferović said, there is something wrong here. I said he was nobody's man, then I realized he was someone's. It also means that because it is someone's and we have a problem, you know. We practically today, when we listen to these people from the parliamentary majority when they speak, we have three groups of officials. Ones who are not allowed to be replaced; the other, which the international community cannot change; the third, where no agreement can be made to change, so that no matter what or how they do in their workplace, you are quite well-provided that no one will touch you there. Of course, that doesn't mean this office didn't work well. Of course, the report on her work we've accepted so far follows that she's done her job well, it's not controversial, we're not talking about the quality of the Office's work here, we're talking about what's written in this report.
ParlaMint-BA_2010-06-16-0.u35601	Denis Bećirović, replica.
ParlaMint-BA_2010-06-16-0.u35602	I thought I wasn't involved in this agenda discussion, but as the live discussion developed, I couldn't resist not answering. I really can't believe what we're discussing today. Three months left until the end of this term, at a time when people pass out on heat in front of diplomatic and consular representations, which I was talking about, and when no one has determined anyone's responsibility for the only country in the region that has lost its visa liberalisation, at the moment when this Council of Ministers has done nothing of those 2007 promises, and now someone here has suggested to us the conclusions on determining the responsibility of the N., some person. And before that, responsibility has not been determined, the first chairman of the Council of Ministers and all ministers and all those responsible for the collapse of all those 2007 promises. The only thing a man can suggest is to put these conclusions into a monument of the political bestiality and amorality of this Council of Ministers and to suspend the debate on this subject after a brief procedure.
ParlaMint-BA_2010-06-16-0.u35603	Bakir Izetbegović, replica.
ParlaMint-BA_2010-06-16-0.u35604	Some hard words of bestiality. I need a little bit, so I really just meet Mr. Pilav here, we don't have any, really, I mean believe it or don't believe it, however you want, the closeness with the SDA, and there's a regular man under pressure. They're trying to get him out of there on a regular basis. Impulse how he defends himself and how he can't. Impulse how much work he was able to do, it was a hill of work. I thought it would take years, but here in the last year his office has managed to solve a huge pile of material, very sensitive, so appeal. So that's a clear fact, a huge job has been done in this office of Mr. Pilav. The second thing is, it's unclear why we want to throw in this hot potato with this shift. Is that, is that a legal obligation, is that rotation, is that in that rule, is he wrong that he didn't do that thing, why they didn't solve that thing in the Council of Ministers? Why do they throw it in front of Parliament, that 112 hot potatoes. And it seems to me that there's a consensus between us, that we don't have to deal with that stuff. So two things completely clear. A huge job that the Office did at the head with Mr. Pilav and a needless throw of that bone here at us. I don't think this should be supported and Mr. Pilav should not be replaced.
ParlaMint-BA_2010-06-16-0.u35605	Salko Sokolović, replica. _________(?) [[no microphone turned on]]
ParlaMint-BA_2010-06-16-0.u35606	No, it's not, I won't. No, Mr. Živković didn't understand. So, I'm a member of the Finance and Budget Committee and Mr. Pilav and my colleagues in this committee have discussed a certain issue many times. Now here's what Mr. Izetbegović said. So the size of the job, you said the subject of criticism. It wasn't the subject of criticism, but it didn't have enough associates to get the job done. The moment we assured him that we had associates, filled out the service, then it set off at one quick pace to resolve all those complaints that were there. And I will not continue to enter this political part of one thing, except here to say that Mr. Bešlagić was the first to stand up for himself, the SDP is not an SDA, here I am in this commission, so here I think that's how I do it, the institution and the man at the head of the institution that has the result, and I noticed it working in the Finance and Budget Commission. Thank you.
ParlaMint-BA_2010-06-16-0.u35607	Let's go to the discussion now. Nice to Kalabić you. Amire,... what you're picking up, there's nothing. [[Common discussion]] There's nothing. Nice to Kalabić you. Just sit down and shut up, you're better off. Nice to Kalabić you.
ParlaMint-BA_2010-06-16-0.u35609	When a newly respected colleague Sokolović began to moan over this man, I was already to start that case of solidarity. No salary, no hot meal, old jeans and stuff, I mean, but well, he got better, and then he started to take the guy. But, okay. Indeed, as far as the objections to work are concerned, and we know, we have accepted this report here, and that story is fine. But there's something else here, and I'm probably going to have a hard time explaining why I'm not ready to support this. I am not prepared to support, however I add it, this man is being replaced by ministers from the SDA and from the 113 Party for BiH. Because obviously either their conscience worked out and suddenly they remembered the rotation and unanimously supported the decision to take this man away, that's how it is. No Serbian ministers' decision: if it were up to them, it would have been over three years ago. _________(?) [[no microphone turned on]] He wouldn't have been here. It would probably be a different story. And now suddenly the conscience of the ministers of the SDA and the Party of BiH, remembered the rotation, is not good, there should probably be someone who isn't... _________(?) [[no microphone turned on]]
ParlaMint-BA_2010-06-16-0.u35619	Well, we want to, this is how we work, so we have to be patient with each other. Husein Nanić. Hussein, the replica, right?
ParlaMint-BA_2010-06-16-0.u35620	I will replicate the two things that Mr. Chairman has said here and Mr. Kalabić treats the director of this institution in a way. It is inappropriate to speak in such a way and it is inappropriate, I quote, 'to call a man the smallest beast'. It's rude and in this home it shouldn't, the chairman, these things should be interrupted and not continued on...
ParlaMint-BA_2010-06-16-0.u35621	I give my word to Mr. Nanić, and Mr. Pilav keeps his hand up. This is Parliament.
ParlaMint-BA_2010-06-16-0.u35622	I don't have any more comments.
ParlaMint-BA_2010-06-16-0.u35623	Nice to Kalabić you.
ParlaMint-BA_2010-06-16-0.u35624	I apologize, I really told the man and apologized, figuratively speaking. I had no intention at all to ___________(?) [[no microphone turned on]] Now, I've literally told him that the man is this, if you want to literally now, "he's a fool," this guy said to him that he's "the criminal of the world's voice," that's what I'm quoting. _________(?) [[no microphone turned on]]
ParlaMint-BA_2010-06-16-0.u35628	Please, all three of you, please, let us stop this.
ParlaMint-BA_2010-06-16-0.u35629	But I apologize, I didn't really want a man, if we understood each other, I apologize, I had no intention.
ParlaMint-BA_2010-06-16-0.u35630	Mr. Kalabić!
ParlaMint-BA_2010-06-16-0.u35631	I said, if you want me to convince you, Mr. Sokolović.
ParlaMint-BA_2010-06-16-0.u35632	Don't convince me later.
ParlaMint-BA_2010-06-16-0.u35633	I think there's a common denominator on the esteemed Mr. Pilav, if it makes you feel any better, and it's got a radish on it, so you want me to tell you, I mean, here it is. I didn't mean to really insult a man.
ParlaMint-BA_2010-06-16-0.u35634	Mirko Okolić, discussion.
ParlaMint-BA_2010-06-16-0.u35635	Thank you, Mr. Chairman. Let me break this subject a little bit. I read this item on the agenda, and I compared these materials, and sometimes I suggested that we write on the agenda and the number of materials that we discuss. Here I am confused that it is not, and I see that the material standing here corresponds to the material that I received and the item of the agenda, says, 'The offices with the proposal of the Council of Ministers of BiH to relieve Dr Amir Pilav of the duties of a member of the Office, etc., etc., the material and that. I am still reading this material that is under this regular number that we received here, or the number of protocols, where it is said: 'The BiH Council of Ministers at the 119st session, held 22. 4. In 2010, it considered and adopted the Information on determining responsibility within the BiH Appeal Office for not implementing certain positive rules regarding the regular rotating procedure at the head'... etc., etc. So the Council of Ministers was considering. It's signed by Zvonimir 117 Kutleša, Secretary General. I now expected to find here somewhere what the Council of Ministers brought, concluded, etc. and some sort of conclusion of his. He sought these conclusions and came to the conclusions that are as they are, not to read to you, not to waste any time, but above, he said, "In view of all the facts mentioned in the Information, we suggest that the Council of Ministers, after considering it, adopt the following conclusions." In signature again, Secretary General Zvonimir Kutleša. Then I go over here to see who and who sent this memo and I see that this is the Secretary General or the Secretary General sent to the Council of Ministers with a proposal to adopt these conclusions. Now I don't know what we have here. Now I, Mr. Beriz Belkić, will ask after you asked me what I signed here: Are we discussing the Council of Ministers' information or the Secretary General's information and is there any decision of the Council of Ministers where...? BERIZ
ParlaMint-BA_2010-06-16-0.u35636	/no microphone turned on/
ParlaMint-BA_2010-06-16-0.u35637	What? BERIZ
ParlaMint-BA_2010-06-16-0.u35638	/no microphone turned on/
ParlaMint-BA_2010-06-16-0.u35639	So here in the first sentence is said: "The BiH Council of Ministers at 119.', I read, 'it looked into.'
ParlaMint-BA_2010-06-16-0.u35640	Consideration and adoption.
ParlaMint-BA_2010-06-16-0.u35641	What?
ParlaMint-BA_2010-06-16-0.u35642	Information.
ParlaMint-BA_2010-06-16-0.u35643	Well, I do, but where is it now? BERIZ
ParlaMint-BA_2010-06-16-0.u35644	/no microphone turned on/
ParlaMint-BA_2010-06-16-0.u35645	What do we want now? Is there anything I can do to see what the Council of Ministers wants right now, if these conclusions aren't, I don't mean, I'm not talking to you, these conclusions aren't the Council of Ministers here, I mean in this. A little 118 came up with this kind of, I don't know, here, is there a secretary general to explain to me and, in the end, the position is to solve this, brother___________ [[no microphone turned on]] You've got the Council of Ministers and his decision, you've got a position in the Assembly, so you don't keep us here for two hours now, that's my suggestion. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-BA_2010-06-16-0.u35647	We still have Azra Hadžiahmetović reported. Here you go.
ParlaMint-BA_2010-06-16-0.u35648	Thank you. I'm not going to talk about rotation because here's this example maybe it's also good to show how deep we've all been unconscious since the intense rotation in this country. But here I want to draw attention to a few important things. Even in this information, a good and careful reader can show a few things from another angle. First, as it says, 'it is prescribed that the Office for the Review of Appeals consists of six members who are elected through a public competition, and the same one', I will skip a little bit, 'on the proposal of the Council of Ministers', therefore, which implements the procedure of the competition, 'names the Parliamentary Assembly, which is the annual report on its work' by the Board of Appeals. So we've appointed, we've been reviewing the reports and if anyone can change then it's this Parliament. By reason of this, correct me, sir, you understand a little bit better in the legislation, but this one, we have had the opportunity to perhaps, when considering the report, if something was wrong, draw attention and possibly ask this Parliament a question of responsibility. Here's what's going on. Mr. Pilav who's in session 25. Nine. In 2006, he appointed interim chairman for the term of office until the appointment of the remaining two members, appointed on 26 March 2009. Who's responsible for this? Who's responsible for what's 25.9. The Board of Appeals until 26.3.2009 did not have the full assembly of the Board of Appeals. Whether this Parliament or the Council of Ministers may or may not be the Office for Consideration of Appeals, etc.? I'm not talking about anyone here personally. Furthermore, here I am, personally, I don't know Mr. Pilav, I mean, I don't know him personally, but I know by his work, but I, Mr. Pilav, congratulate you for stopping and preventing the legislative powers of this House from taking over the Council of Ministers. Correct me if I'm wrong. Here I remind you of page two. He says: 'With the aim of further consent, the chair of the Board of Appeals initiates as the disputed provisions of the Regulation', so someone in the Council of Ministers has agreed, 'which regulates that the Council of Ministers appoints the Chair of the Office for the Review of Appeals and that the Council of Ministers may dismiss the chairman of the Office for the Review of Appeals at the written request of the MPs in the Parliamentary Assembly of BiH.' See what position the Parliamentary Assembly is in here?- I'm sorry. Subordinated by the Council of Ministers. And not only that, not only at the request of MPs but even a member of the Council of Ministers or a member of the Office for the Review of Appeals. So where is the institutional order here, regardless of who it's about? This was opposed by Mr. Pilav, which is why his responsibility is sought. I will not conspiracies what else can stand behind the demands of someone else to determine your responsibility. So, if we're really going to open the story, let's open up the story of who's responsible for the situation at the Board of Appeals. First, who is responsible for the fact that two, or three years, almost three years old, the Council of Ministers has not completed the procedure for the appointment, i.e. staff training, complete rounding the Board of Appeals? And secondly, as a Parliament which has its responsibilities under the law when it comes to the Board of Appeals, we can make here a responsible person who has prevented the Council of Ministers, a minister, or a member of the Office for the Review of Appeals, which we appoint here, from replacing the President of the Office for the Review of Appeals, or from taking away part of the competence of this Parliament, which, as appointed by the members of the Office, should be resolved. So, I think that this information should be clearly rejected, that the Council of Ministers needs to ask for information on why this happened in the Office for the Review of Appeals and what kind of problems it has caused in the Office for the Review of Appeals, and then we will come to a rotation and whether someone three months before the elections will appoint another nationality, so we will continue to spin and remain unconscious for years in certain institutions that we ourselves are blocking, that is, in the absence of adequate communication and commitment to legal provisions, both by the Council of Ministers and by the Parliamentary Assembly of BiH. Here, I have not discussed in this spirit how it has been so far, but I think that Mr Kalabić, who is not here, should pay little attention to this particular issue of Parliament's jurisdiction and reducing and jurisdiction with initiatives of this kind when it comes to responsibility for persons who have opposed the reduction of the powers of this Parliament. Thank you.
ParlaMint-BA_2010-06-16-0.u35649	Thank you. I don't have any more reports. I'm closing the debate. If you have ambitions with conclusions before the vote, you can write them and deliver them. Moving to point 19. Ad. 19. Statement on RepresentativesMomčilo Initiative for inclusion in the agenda of the House of Dot: "Responsibility of BiH presidency members for Bosnia and Herzegovina's foreign policy management in light of recent statements by individual members" 120 So Mr. Novaković submitted the above-mentioned initiative at the 76th session. The College has appointed the Foreign Affairs Commission which has also delivered Opinion 24 to us. 5. So, as you saw from the report, the Commission did not support the initiative. So, I'm opening a debate on the Initiative. Here you go. I don't have any reports. Momčilo Novaković. Here you go.
ParlaMint-BA_2010-06-16-0.u35651	So I have a question, Mr. Chairman. We vote today whether this is on the agenda or not.
ParlaMint-BA_2010-06-16-0.u35652	That's right.
ParlaMint-BA_2010-06-16-0.u35653	So we're not having an argument, are we?
ParlaMint-BA_2010-06-16-0.u35654	That's right, sir. We're not having a debate, we're pleading whether to accept this... on the agenda or not.
ParlaMint-BA_2010-06-16-0.u35655	I mean, it would be logical for me as a proposing now to give some argument why this should still be on the agenda, even though this commission said it shouldn't be on the agenda.
ParlaMint-BA_2010-06-16-0.u35656	That's how I understood your call. Here you go.
ParlaMint-BA_2010-06-16-0.u35657	But here, I think, when you look at the behavior on this committee, the way you vote, and the relationship to this issue on the commission itself, my additional explanation doesn't make any sense. It is evident that everyone agrees that the presidency's responsibility exists, constitutionally there is, but no one agrees that we should have a debate or that at least most in this commission disagreed that the debate should be conducted. So, there is a responsibility, there is a visible, more than evident that in realising this responsibility is a series of problems, I guess you shouldn't point out how BiH's foreign policy is being run today and what's happening in this area but, of course, there is also the fact that these people are from some parties. So when they're from the opposition, then the opposition won't discuss their responsibility, but they want to discuss the responsibility of the Council of Ministers, but don't give the Presidency Bog. 121 So that really some kind of additional explanation isn't necessary. I think it's a shame that on the agenda, not on my proposal, but that some information was not found on the agenda here by the Presidency on the conduct of the foreign policy of BiH, so that we should discuss this information rather than on responsibility, so the result of the debate on this information is whether or not there is responsibility. Unfortunately, we have not received any such information from the BiH presidency in this term. This presidency did not adopt, even, BiH's security policy, but succeeded from the previous one. This has neither adopted nor changed the basics of foreign policymaking but since 2005, etc., so that my debate on this and my conviction that it should be on the agenda makes no sense. I'm really sorry that this issue is not being discussed in another atmosphere. Nothing else. Thank you.
ParlaMint-BA_2010-06-16-0.u35658	Here's what we heard. I've got a report. Husein Nanić. Here you go.
ParlaMint-BA_2010-06-16-0.u35659	I thank you, Chairman. Here we have this initiative and I would like it and, believe me, Mr. Novaković, to support the agenda point of what you said was a request for information from the Presidency on foreign policy management. And I think it would be useful for this parliament to discuss it, but you have delivered to us the point of 'Responsibility of the members of the Presidency for the conduct of foreign policy' and that is their responsibility, that is, the responsibility of the members of the Presidency and jurisdiction, first jurisdiction: the conduct of foreign policy. Then, further, you say 'in the light of the last statements of the members', are those statements yesterday related to the arrest of BiH citizens, that I am not opening any kind of replicas, and I don't think this point is even ready. And thirdly, here you've written that they have statements and reactions, that there's a responsibility to determine, and in this document I have no statements, no responses, etc., so it's really... And finally to conclude with the sentence: you really did (as you show basic preparations and in the debates according to certain points of the agenda, etc.) Surprised by this agenda point, since I know you're a serious MP.
ParlaMint-BA_2010-06-16-0.u35660	Now Momo's gonna Momo you. Replica, Novaković.
ParlaMint-BA_2010-06-16-0.u35661	No, I won't, Chairman. Look, all I'm saying is that it's not correct from Mr. Nanić because I said on this committee: let's delete the part that says "in the light of the last statements" (members of this commission know it) and discuss it. It's not disputed to erase it, and that's why it's not in favor of 122 because I realized it was a problem. So I understand that the problem is 'in the light of the last statements' and that everything else is not a problem. Later it turned out to be a problem and responsibility. I did not dispute the responsibility of the Presidency to lead, but I challenged how responsible it carried out its constitutional responsibility. I don't think he's carrying out responsibly. I think disaster has been our foreign policy for the last four years. And I guess we all know that. It would be good if counterpart Nanić had suggested on this committee - let's go with the House's conclusion that it would not be this point, and that the Bureau's information would go - and we wouldn't have adopted it. Here's what I'm saying. We wouldn't get the Bureau's information. No member of the Bureau has been here in four years. For the first time since I was in Parliament, three mandates, I have not seen a member of the Bureau at a session. _________(?) [[no microphone turned on]] I'm sorry, I'm inauguration. So, but it's not controversial, look, it's obvious that we agree and accept the fact that the Presidency has exercised that responsibility in the way it has been carried out, someone thinks well, someone thinks badly, but the fact is that we don't want to discuss it, and that's a fact and that's okay. It's okay, I accept that. My attempt was to discuss it, most people think we shouldn't discuss it and we won't even discuss it.
ParlaMint-BA_2010-06-16-0.u35663	Denis Bećirović, discussion.
ParlaMint-BA_2010-06-16-0.u35664	A colleague, Novaković, is in certain stages of this...
ParlaMint-BA_2010-06-16-0.u35665	Mr. Genjac!
ParlaMint-BA_2010-06-16-0.u35666	At certain stages of this term, Kolega Novaković knew in this Parliament that he was also expressing an enviable level of preparedness and seriousness in his work, and now, in the finale of his mandate, he shows that he also has a sense of humor. In fact, he himself is aware to see that even the Office's responsibility to consider complaints cannot be determined here in Parliament and the Council of Ministers. And I am aware that in this Parliament there is no willingness or opportunity to determine the responsibility of any minister or prime minister whom this parliament has chosen, that I am not talking about the assistants etc., aware that we are not even able to realise the decisions of this parliament in close to 200 cases, as chronologically justified, has been defined here even now three months before the elections to seek the responsibility of those who did not elect this parliament but directly the citizens of BiH. I just suggest that these three months we try to do something that can be done in this period, and that really unbound who is now the position, who is the opposition, we take these points off from 123 agendas because, simply, colleague Novaković, as well as I know well how strong this Parliament is and what the climate is.
ParlaMint-BA_2010-06-16-0.u35667	That was nice to hear, Denise. Branko Dokić.
ParlaMint-BA_2010-06-16-0.u35668	Mr. Chairman,
ParlaMint-BA_2010-06-16-0.u35669	Here you go, Mr. Dokić.
ParlaMint-BA_2010-06-16-0.u35670	I want to remind you of something that I discussed at the beginning of this session when it was about the agenda. Although I support this initiative launched by counterpart Novaković, I have a feeling that it will not pass, but if Parliament truly wants to, because as some MPs say we would like the formulation to be like this and like that, then we would be able to support it with our heart, we have a chance to get there. I want to remind you once again, and I will now ask you: this parliament has adopted an initiative by which the Presidency should have submitted a written and oral report on BiH's relations with neighbouring countries. It's one of the crucial issues of foreign policy, to be clear. I personally think that the Kolegijum has failed in this case because this is no longer about the relationship with the motion of this initiative, but about Parliament. If the Presidency had any respect for Parliament, it would have provided an answer, even in the sense that they would not submit such an initiative. Therefore, I ask you to ask one more of the Bureau to be seen as regards an initiative which I think is even unanimously adopted in this House. But in any case, it's also adopted to consider it until the annual break or to say and to be eligible to state the reasons why they won't do it. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-BA_2010-06-16-0.u35671	Criticism accepted, Mr. Dokić. Here you go, Mr. Živković. We'll get the strength to ask for it again.
ParlaMint-BA_2010-06-16-0.u35672	Thank you. The SNSD has its own member and SNSD and member of the Bureau and we are not running away from this point. We have no reason to run from this point, we think we can defend the views expressed by a member of the Serbian people's presidency who is a member of the SNSD's work so far. 124 But it seems to me that we have sinned, not the subject, but the House. You know, in the Constitution in Article IV under 3.g., the House of Peoples can dissipate the Presidency – is something that can be initiated in the House of Peoples. You have there your MP from the party to which he belongs and to initiate the responsibility of members of the Presidency in the House of Peoples where a procedure for resolving members of the Bureau can be launched. And that's how the Presidency can shiver a little if responsibility is launched in the House of Peoples. And I think this conclusion should be to transfer this initiative to the House of Peoples and to the conclusion of this House of Representatives. [[Common discussion]]
ParlaMint-BA_2010-06-16-0.u35673	Please, just a little attention and patience. We have a report of a Milica named Marković. Here you go.
ParlaMint-BA_2010-06-16-0.u35674	Thank you, Mr. Chairman. I came forward because I am a member of the Foreign Affairs Commission and I want to say that this is the attitude of individual colleagues and, in general, the Commission for Foreign Affairs towards this initiative, and I have been very rarely involved in the work of this committee lately because in the last six months to a year, it is very trendy and I would say, unprincipledly, access to certain issues that are on her agenda.
ParlaMint-BA_2010-06-16-0.u35675	Sadik!
ParlaMint-BA_2010-06-16-0.u35676	Now I'm going to illustrate to you right now one example that we have had and we have the opportunity here in Parliament to discuss it. So, a while ago, we had here on the agenda a candidate agenda, i.e. the item on the agenda that we discussed, and this is information about how and how the RS government opened representations in certain countries in Europe and by which powers it did so. This item of the agenda came directly from the Foreign Affairs Commission, and the situation was the following: first one of the colleagues in the Commission asked for information on how it happened. The information was delivered from the RS and then when this information came (as well as all the other information we get on this commission,... which we take note of), then suddenly that information became the item of the agenda that was run from the Foreign Affairs Commission. It is obvious that this initiative will not receive support to pass today and that it is being debated and that perhaps some conclusions are being drawn, but I think that this relationship is incorrect to this initiative. Is anyone afraid to open this topic here and to talk about it or there are other hidden reasons, I am not going into it, but precisely, it can be viewed from another angle, just so that it comes to the agenda and that we make some conclusions – what can this Parliament do to the members of the Presidency? Whatever he does by this initiative and by this point of the 125th agenda, he can't do anything to them. Some of the individual members of this presidency will continue to act as they have so far acted, just as this parliament could conclude whatever they want, can't do anything to the National Assembly or the Government of the Republic of Slovenia, they will continue to work in accordance with the Constitution of the Republic of Slovenia and with the powers they have, so the only question is whether something that suits our ears that we listen to can go on, and something that doesn't suit us will be eliminated at the beginning. I said all of this to the address and to the Foreign Affairs Commission. I think that the Commission's behaviour on foreign affairs has largely contributed to the specific points coming from this committee that this relationship and approach are based on individual initiatives. Thank you.
ParlaMint-BA_2010-06-16-0.u35677	Husein Nanić, replica.
ParlaMint-BA_2010-06-16-0.u35678	I thank you, Chairman. Here I propose to Mr. Novaković that he renames this item of the agenda to 'Information of the members of the BiH Presidency on foreign policy management', and I think there should be no problem in getting that information. And I'll support that.
ParlaMint-BA_2010-06-16-0.u35679	Thank you. Finalising debate on point 20. We're moving on to point 21 that we're...
ParlaMint-BA_2010-06-16-0.u35680	...to 20.
ParlaMint-BA_2010-06-16-0.u35681	So now we've finished discussing Mr. Novaković's Initiative. The next item of the agenda is: The appointment of an Interresor Working Group to work on amending the Ministry Act, etc. It doesn't matter, it's important that we have order, and whether it's 20 or 21.
ParlaMint-BA_2010-06-16-0.u35682	The Foreign Affairs Commission now. This is...
ParlaMint-BA_2010-06-16-0.u35683	We're done now, yeah, we're done, I'm sorry. 126 So, one of Mr. Novaković's initiatives is over. He's got another one that's been reformed, so it's about point 20. Ad. 20. Proposal from the Foreign Affairs Committee on the realisation of the Momčilo Novaković Initiative, adopted at the 77th session of the House, which reads: 'Determining guidelines for the action of temporary delegations that take part in international meetings on behalf of Bosnia and Herzegovina' So, the initiative was adopted at the 77th session. And today we got from the Foreign Affairs Commission, I think, some kind of proposal. So, I'm opening a debate and I'm practically calling on the president of this committee to explain to the MPs what this is all about.
ParlaMint-BA_2010-06-16-0.u35685	Mr. President, distinguished colleagues and fellow MPs, I did not respond to the adoption of the agenda because I did not want to further complicate the debate on the agenda itself. I don't think the name of the point is quite adequate. It was enough to classify it as originally the proponent, distinguished counterpart Novaković, suggested that a point entitled 'Determining guidelines for the action of temporary delegations on behalf of BiH take part in international meetings' in the agenda of one of the House of Representatives. For this initiative in the initial consideration or in the first step at the meeting of the Committee on Foreign Affairs on 21.4.2010, the Committee on Foreign Affairs gave a positive opinion and it seems unanimous to me, unlike this earlier point, where he was also a proposing colleague, Novaković. So here this is supported to be found as a item of the agenda. Afterwards, the College asked the Committee on Foreign Affairs, since this would be the item of the agenda, that we should set ourselves on the Committee and on the content of this initiative. Since yesterday the Committee could not participate in the work of the Committee itself, we have discussed in a way that all present members of the Committee at yesterday's session were in the mood and appreciated the need for this to take place at the House of Representatives and to try to find a solution and exit so that the temporary delegations would not go to certain international meetings at various destinations and perform very charmingly or in the name of BiH there are various acts in terms of declarations, resolutions, statements or such, and that it is not agreed within that delegation itself. Kolega Novaković cited his initiative that the temporary delegations of the House of Representatives, and most often it is the joint temporary delegations of both homes, determine the co-legislators of both homes. In this way, perhaps the starting point would be in this direction if the College were to also name, through the drafting of the Rules of Procedure on the work of these provisional delegations, since 127 are occasionally established, ad hoc from case to case, whether, through any recommendations or instructions, members of such temporary delegations commit to agreeing and agreeing on views and what will happen at such international meetings. So here is the deal with Proposer Novaković himself, I believe that he will come up with a proposal for a certain conclusion that, whether he is adequate enough or he can be different, we can see that for the time being, we will remove these misunderstandings and avoid the tails that appeared after these international meetings where our temporary delegations participated. He also called for the practice of working on permanent delegations that have their own rules of procedure and, among other things, the obligation to take place before going to a permanent delegation at a particular meeting at least a meeting where he tries to agree on the views and joint action at the meeting, which temporary delegations do not have. Here, thank you very much.
ParlaMint-BA_2010-06-16-0.u35686	It's important, Slavko, to start the initiative and someone's gonna do it later. Here you go, Mr. Novaković.
ParlaMint-BA_2010-06-16-0.u35687	Thank you, Mr. Chairman. First, it means correction in the agenda, so the exact term point should be 'Determining guidelines for the action of temporary delegations', so it was in this initiative, not temporary delegations, of course, that essentially changes the role. Therefore, here it is understood that temporary delegations participating in international meetings must be given some guidance for action at these meetings. What is the motive, or what triggered this proposal or this initiative? This is the fact that several cases wherever our delegations participated in international meetings and where members of the delegation after returning or during the meeting reported to any media, as well as which member of the completely different positions that were brought down at these meetings. I think it certainly harms BiH and its reputation, and here we are in this way some foreign policy segment of BiH, we here in Parliament. I'm prepared, I'm sorry I couldn't be at the session, but I mean, at this point, the most important job is putting together party lists, so, I mean, don't mind, do you, so don't mind what I couldn't. And my proposal means formulating how to resolve this, so now it's about something that's practical, which I think we can solve, here's what my colleague Bećirović said, without being too busy. I thought about it, given that the College means to appoint this delegation, that he, together with the members of the delegation, must establish these guidelines and that is why I propose this: when appointing the temporary delegation of the College of the House, together with the delegation, lays down views on issues which are on the agenda of the international meeting for which the delegation is temporarily delegated. It makes sense to me, you know. If the delegation is appointed by Parliament at all times, then the delegation is obliged to respect strategies, different attitudes, etc., which are on Parliament itself and some adopted strategies here in Parliament. And I only see ways, of course, there is another way that a delegation is obliged without the College to conclude for itself, but then I'm afraid we won't get the effect it wants to achieve. 128 Of course, this question can also be defined in a business way if the College considers that it can simply be this commission that is still working on that Rules of Procedure, meaning that some provision that is acceptable can also be defined through this Rules of Procedure. But the key question is, so here, given that the College is taking over whether the College is in agreement, it is not, whether it considers it logical, it does not consider it, or whether the House considers the task to be in order or not. Thank you.
ParlaMint-BA_2010-06-16-0.u35688	I suggest, Momo, that you write it anyway, let it multiply and, practically, that would be the result of this debate and this initiative, and then the MPs come forward, right? Mr. Okolić signed up for the discussion. Here you go.
ParlaMint-BA_2010-06-16-0.u35689	I'll try very briefly and not cause a replica, I hope. I think that this issue should be settled no matter how we choose today to settle it for the reason that in practice this problem has arisen, because we have had cases that these temporary delegations, which went abroad, have different opinions and then so much is not the problem with the entry, can be said there are different views of different representatives, peoples or, I don't know, entities etc., but the problem is when something is to be signed. There have also been such cases where, for example, by a delegation or by a representative of a nation or a member of a delegation, it makes it clear that something like this should not be signed or vice versa, and then it happens that no matter what -- don't sign anything -- happens to be signed. And I suggest that it would not come to this, and that such reports, after which they come to Parliament or to certain institutions that need to be adopted, do not pass, and then we have a report on such visits, unaccepted and nothing. So my suggestion is to see how and how to regulate it, and now you wouldn't want to speak at all in any way. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-BA_2010-06-16-0.u35690	Živković, discussion.
ParlaMint-BA_2010-06-16-0.u35691	Simply, this unresolved matter should be resolved in two ways by the Rules of Procedure. One is that we have a temporary solution that will be by the end of our term. In that solution it is not necessary, in my opinion, that the College is involved in the creation of guidelines. I think it is quite enough for the committees (as permanent delegations to set up a meeting before leaving) to adopt a joint appearance at that meeting, because these committees, except that the College confirms and gives a decision, propose or propose a committee to the House, or propose an extended college, so that I do not see the need to hold a meeting with each delegation temporarily forming the College prior to their departure. I think it's enough for that commission to set up a meeting and set up its own guidelines for action. That would be a temporary solution by the end of this term. A permanent solution would be to resolve the business issue in a way that obliges temporary delegations to set up a meeting before leaving and to agree 129 views of joint action there. These are two things that we can react to and I think it is unnecessary for the College to hold a meeting with each temporary delegation because the composition of this... is set out in a delegation proposal or an extended college or certain committees depending on which call is made.
ParlaMint-BA_2010-06-16-0.u35692	Of course, this also implies that we should write it down and make a statement about it. The environment, you've caused it for sure. Here you go, Mr. Huskić.
ParlaMint-BA_2010-06-16-0.u35693	Thank you, Mr. Chairman. I think it is an important question and I think that colleague Novaković did a good thing by launching this kind of initiative and I personally think that it is acceptable and one and another way to get to these views, perhaps at this point it is faster what counterpart Živković suggested. But I think that here technically you should make one addition, subtitle, colleague Novaković. Here it is meant to refer to Parliament's delegations, but it does not necessarily mean now. Therefore, I think we should put on a 'determining guidelines for the action of temporary delegations on the BiH Parliament' which, because we have various delegations of BiH. There's one in Belgrade yesterday, walking there, buzzing, I mean, who they represent, what they do, Bog knows.
ParlaMint-BA_2010-06-16-0.u35694	Lazar Prodanović.
ParlaMint-BA_2010-06-16-0.u35695	I've had as many colleagues as the opportunity in this mandate to travel with different delegations. And mostly, experience suggests, therefore, out of the country, but my main experience shows that there was a positive action, I think, generally assessing in terms of representing the country, taking some views or even having a different view, so he was tolerated in that sense that he was not creating a conflict situation. Experience shows, I was also able to see and, therefore, not exactly the appropriate performances of our representatives in foreign countries who mainly manifested themselves in terms of some forms of impatience or feelings of inferiority or anything. I think it is often a problem that is sometimes impossible to define in terms of a written act in any form, including the Rules of Procedure, although it would not be bad if there was a Rules of Procedure on how delegations work and take place. What I believe is that for the remaining three months to be done, I think it would be necessary to introduce a practice in order to make it very useful that, before the delegation takes place somewhere outside the country, at the very least, and that the joint discussion determines which issues are not to a certain extent a consensus which, if they were adequately presented, would not create unpleasant situations. That's what I'm saying first of all today that I've had the chance to hold talks with representatives of a foreign country about it. They asked me how we got along. I said 130 that absolutely well and there was absolutely no problem in terms of our actions. People looked at me like this, they couldn't believe it, it seemed to me that in a certain sense part of our therapeutic treatment should be to be abroad to get along well. So we can generally not talk about the poor functioning of delegations representing BiH outside the country, but in order to avoid extreme situations, I think we could hold a certain meeting and agree some minimum or say - we will expect as part of the problem some question, if someone wants to replicate it, to be manifest. I also think,...so the worst form of our performance could be to show this impatience sometimes according to our homework. So it is one, conditionally said, diplomatic or cultural parliamentary bonton that should, as far as possible, be introduced into these normal frameworks. That includes other activities when it comes to, say, attending somewhere, it's about presenting the country, giving gifts, who's going to be the one to hand it over. I think these are very important questions so that people wouldn't look at us if we were to that extent inconclusive in something that the maltenes needed someone to separate us from us so there wouldn't be a physical reckoning. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-BA_2010-06-16-0.u35696	Slavko Jovičić. Suggest we don't travel.
ParlaMint-BA_2010-06-16-0.u35697	I didn't mean to talk, but my colleague, Prodanović, gave it to me. So you see how a man has experience, since he's always in these delegations. I don't have that much experience, and I admire my colleague, Sr. Prodanović Sr., for carrying this kind of experience. When a man listens to this, I don't mean the exposure of an esteemed colleague, but we seem to be going there to fight those who are waiting for us. We define the extended agenda, and here we lose three hours of change and supplementing the agenda, and we agree in Sarajevo to perform in Brussels, and we have no idea who's waiting for us there. We have no idea what people are going to ask us. We have no idea what the agenda points are, they're running. We have no idea what they're interested in. And now we're going to define. And we can't define here. People, when we catch up to something and I pray to a colleague from the Centre of Civil Initiatives who I respect to record this: Parliament has brought the most regulation against itself. What we're going to look like, the code, where we're going to look, where we're going to perform, who we're going to represent, what we're going to do. People, well, really. I didn't mean to say this, but here's what I'm saying. We were on trips, I was lucky, and now I'm not important, just where the OSCE sends me and pays them and thank them. But they gave up too, so here I am not going for half a year, a year, or someone else is coming before me. But I wish we had a report once of a delegation where it was crowded, so our delegations didn't agree there and that's how it intervened, but there are foreigners. Well, they had little intervention in our country, but they intervened on their own ground to keep us calm. Well, people, that's not necessary. At the club people can't agree on some things here, in the party, the parliamentary majority, because these behind our backs are waiting right now, and not now we'll know what he's going to ask us in Brussels, Washington, I don't know what, and now we're going to do a whole scientific lab or have a red phone with Mr. Živković or Belkić or nitko and say, hey, 131 chairman, he asked me, I don't know what it is, can you help me? Either someone here wants to underestimate us by ourselves or we really want to lead this to absurdity or we need some travel abroad, so we need platforms to fly as much as possible. Let's take a little landing here. So if we land a little bit on home ground, it's a lot more in the air than we are, let's go down a little bit on the ground and do something useful for these two or three months and break up with different codes, rules, changes, changes, platforms, agreements. Let's make a deal here. Everyone goes there, I say, I'm not important, but who was with me in the delegation saw who I... in what way. BiH tops. At least he'll say he came from a civilized country, although in many things I don't think so, but I want to prove to him that it's my country. But if I want to have a fight with someone, but I'm avoiding it too, then first I'm gonna take Mr. Nanić, whom I respect, he's right in front of me, so nobody's gonna mind, let's go here. Which... abroad, when they don't first know which countries we came from, there are many countries there, says where you are. As he asked me in Congress American: 'What are BiH's relations with Poland?' What, with Poland, that's nice. He means bordering BiH with Poland. We say, "Well wait, slowly, there is Croatia, Hungary, Slovakia, so Poland is then." That's your foreign policy. So, don't burden us, this is a good initiative but who will define it. I set out for Parliament's session, prepared myself for many points of what to say. I wasn't at those points today where I was supposed to, because I didn't want to talk, but I wanted to say it. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-BA_2010-06-16-0.u35698	Slavko, I recommended you. Here's your correction. SLOVE
ParlaMint-BA_2010-06-16-0.u35699	/no microphone turned on/
ParlaMint-BA_2010-06-16-0.u35700	Here's your correction. Here you go. I'm telling you to turn down the radio.
ParlaMint-BA_2010-06-16-0.u35701	Here we try to solve even though some find this impossible to solve since the question is asked: 'What if they agree before the road, then at the sitting itself, there are certain points of the agenda or the situation?' I think everyone here agrees that the point is that the key is in the joint action of temporary delegations. If that's the point, my proposal is to regulate the issue of forming work and performing temporary delegations of the BiH Parliamentary Assembly in the Rules of Procedure. They shall have the obligation to hold a delegation meeting whenever it is necessary to agree on a way of working together on issues on the agenda of the international meeting. This allows them to be able before the road, on the road itself, and whenever it is necessary to work together. They can agree to have the right, of course, to make their own private views, to bring out the party's views, but to act together in those places. And it is also our commission to amend and supplement the Rules of Procedure to pay attention to temporary delegations and this issue to the Rules of Procedure. I think we can get out of this problem. 132
ParlaMint-BA_2010-06-16-0.u35702	We still have a line of Mirko Okolić. Who's there?
ParlaMint-BA_2010-06-16-0.u35703	The replica is both Mr. Jovičić and Mr. Živković in terms of a more efficient exit from this situation. I thought we were going to make some suggestions, but here, since it isn't, I'm going to make a concrete proposal in terms of not being able to idealize this now that we're going to imagine that every delegation will go abroad and talk... Well, guys, that's impossible. And it wasn't poetic, the point was to sign certain declarations, reports, resolutions, no resolution is a bit of a big deal, etc. So, I would just one conclusion of this home solve it and suggest the House of Peoples to solve it, and the conclusion would be this, my suggestion: that temporary delegations that go abroad, that I don't speak now, etc., can't sign anything, means any act, that we formulate it nicely, if they haven't taken a unique position. And it's over, no problem afterwards. If they're taken, they know the attitudes, their reach, they know what they can sign, what they can't, what they can't do, it's okay, and if they've agreed to some people sign. If they didn't agree, there's no signature and we've solved everything. Now, if you accept that conclusion, I think we're out of that situation. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-BA_2010-06-16-0.u35704	Momčilo Novaković. _________(?) [[no microphone turned on]]
ParlaMint-BA_2010-06-16-0.u35705	I'm asking for the conclusion that it is.
ParlaMint-BA_2010-06-16-0.u35706	I thought I knew what my intensity was when I suggested this, then the idea, and what my idea was, and I have to say, I'm going to repeat that sentence where I said I was initiated in different media information. I am lucky as Mr. Jukić, too, that I have not been a member of any delegation from the OSCE even means in this term, so I have not had the opportunity to experience these differences, in the past I have. But I read in the media, and I thought it would be good if this were regulated. But most people think that there's no need and that everything is great, then I think that these journalists are unnecessarily real in the media... when everything is good, nice, we're a rich country, unique, and I don't know what these journalists are doing. But, well, here I am ready to withdraw my proposal for a conclusion in favour of Mr. Živković's proposal. I said, when I suggested the conclusion that the College should be evaluated, it meant whether it was a burden or not for the College. The College has clearly estimated that this is a burden that hardly they can, given that delegations come out of here, go on, are not in a position to follow the process, and they suggest that the responsibility for it belongs to or goes completely to 133 delegations. I also accept this approach that the delegation is fully responsible and that is why I will support it. So, as far as I'm concerned, I draw a conclusion that is the result of the initiative and I support the conclusion proposed by Mr. Živković.
ParlaMint-BA_2010-06-16-0.u35707	Thank you, Mr. Novaković. This is how we end the debate on item 20 concerning this initiative of MP Momčilo Novaković. Moving to point 21. Ad. 21. Proposal for appointing members of the Representative's House of Representatives in the Interresor Working Group to work on an amendment (act of the BiH Ministry of Justice): (a) Law on ministries and other bodies of the BiH Administration, (b) Law on the Council of Ministers of BiH, (c) Law on State Service in BiH institutions, (d) Law on the revision of BiH institutions, (e) Law on Government, (f) Law on Public Procurement of BiH ... We've received an eight proposal. Six. At the Enlarged College, we agreed that these laws should be divided into some natural groups, so three groups, where the Law on Ministrys and other bodies of the administration, the Council of Ministers Act, as one group, is proposed in front of the Velimir Jukić House of Representatives. The second group would be the Law on State Service in BiH institutions and the Law on Administration, which would be proposed by Željko Kuzmanović, and the Law on the Audit of Institutions and Public Procurement would be proposed by Sadik Bahtić, as proposed by the Extended College. So, I'm opening a debate on this proposal. Any other suggestions? There isn't. I'm closing the debate on point 21 and we're moving to point 22. Ad. 22. Approval to cancel: a) European Convention on the Protection of Archaeological Heritage, adopted in London on 6 May 1969
ParlaMint-BA_2010-06-16-0.u35715	/no microphone turned on/
ParlaMint-BA_2010-06-16-0.u35716	What? I can't. There's nothing on the screen anymore. So 10 voted "yes", 20 "against", two "abstained", not accepted the Joint Commission's report and is therefore back to reviewing this commission. 137 Let's go to point 7. Proposal for a Law on Amendments and Supplements to the Law on the conduct of a judicial exam in Bosnia and Herzegovina, Proposer: Council of Ministers of BiH, Law No 01,02-02-5-28/10 of 14. 4. 2010. (second reading) Here we have this amendment of MP Drago Kalabić, which you have read, it is about amandman I.. dakle it is said, 'Article 6 is deleted'. Please prepare to vote on amandman I. of Ambassador Drago Kalabić. Vote now! "For" voted 10, 18 "against", four "abstained", the amendment does not have a general majority, and has not been adopted. Now we're voting on the bill's proposal in the second reading. Please prepare to vote. Vote now! "For" is 21, seven "against", four "sustained", (two from RS "for", no entity support, no ability to even agree. It's an ex post adjustment, isn't it? Thank you. [[Common discussion]] Point 8. Proposal for a Law on Amendments and Supplements to the Criminal Law of Bosnia and Herzegovina, Proposers: MPs of the SDPBiH Club, Law No: 01-02-5-31/10 of 21.4.2010. (second reading) Prepare to vote. Vote now! "For" was voted by 22 MPs (two from the RS), 10 "against", there are no "abstained". We don't have enough majority from the RS, we'll agree later. We're going to point 9. _________(?) There's no Nika.
ParlaMint-BA_2010-06-16-0.u35719	There's no Federation either.
ParlaMint-BA_2010-06-16-0.u35720	The important thing is these 10, the important thing is these 10, we understand each other... So I find that the revised strategy was adopted in the second reading. We're going to point 11. Proposal for a law supplementing the Law on Service in the Armed Forces of Bosnia and Herzegovina, Proposers: Members of the SDA Club, Law No: 01-02-8-36/10 of 21.5.2010. (The law is in the first reading) Prepare to vote. Vote now! "For" voted 31 MPs (20 from the Federation, 11 from the RS), there is no vote "against", one "sustained", a sufficient entity majority. I agree that the proposal for a law supplementing the Law on Service in the Armed Forces of BiH was adopted in the first reading. Let's go to point 12. Proposal for a law amending and supplementing the Law on conflict of interest in the institutions of Bosnia and Herzegovina, Proposer: MP Martin Raguž, Law No: 01-02-9-35-1/10 of 14.5.2010. (first reading) Please prepare for the vote. 139 MARTIN [[Common discussion]]
ParlaMint-BA_2010-06-16-0.u35721	/no microphone turned on/
ParlaMint-BA_2010-06-16-0.u35722	Here you go, Mr. Raguž.
ParlaMint-BA_2010-06-16-0.u35723	Thank you very much, Mr. President. I think here I am, as a proposer, ready to accept the College's proposal if we can give some reasonable time for the work of the Interressor Working Group.
ParlaMint-BA_2010-06-16-0.u35724	You see, we're voting on the law now, so according to the Rules of Procedure, we vote first on the law, and then we vote on the conclusion, and as far as the deadline goes, I think it means going straight into that procedure. So, the College will immediately initiate the procedure if we accept... this conclusion.
ParlaMint-BA_2010-06-16-0.u35725	The problem is that it is not only us, but also the Council of Ministers and the House of Peoples, the Central Election Commission, __________(?) [[no microphone turned on]]
ParlaMint-BA_2010-06-16-0.u35726	But we'll do ours.
ParlaMint-BA_2010-06-16-0.u35727	We can do ours.
ParlaMint-BA_2010-06-16-0.u35728	So here we go back, we are voting now on the Proposal for a Law amending and supplementing the Law on conflict of interest in BiH's institutions (first reading). Prepare to vote. Vote now! "For" voted 13 MPs, 18 "against", one "abstained". The law did not receive the general majority and was not accepted in the first reading. We are now voting on the Proposal for a conclusion of the College, which reads: 'In order to prepare the Bill on Amendments and Supplements to the Law on Conflict of Interest in the Institutions of Bosnia and Herzegovina, we are initiating the establishment of an Interresor Working Group with 140 participation of representatives of institutions working on the preparation of the Bill on Amendments and Supplements to the Law on the Prevention of Conflict of Interest in the Institutions of BiH - the Parliamentary Assembly of BiH, the Council of Ministers of BiH and the Central Election Commission - which was rejected at the 70th session of the House, held 21. 1. 2010. During the work, the Interresor Working Group will benefit from the Venice Commission's opinion." Prepare to vote on this proposal for a conclusion. Vote now! "For" was voted by 29 MPs, without "against", two "abstained". I find this conclusion adopted. Let's go to point 13. Proposal for a Law on Census, Households and Apartments in Bosnia and Herzegovina 2011, Proposer: Temporary Commission, Law No: 01-02-9-37/10 of 24. 5. 2010. (first reading) Prepare to vote. Vote now! "For" voted 23 MPs, seven "against", one "abstained", a sufficient entity majority and I realize that this law was adopted in the first reading. Let's go to point 14. Proposal for a Law amending the Law on State Service in the Institutions of Bosnia and Herzegovina, Proposer: Ambassador Lazar Prodanović, Law No: 01-02-9-34/10 of 13. 5. In 2010, with the Constitutional Commission's opinion. So, we are voting on the Opinion of the Constitutional Legal Commission, noting that if we accept the Opinion of the Bill's proposal has been rejected, unless we adopt the bill's proposal returns to this commission for reviewing and delivering a new report. So we're voting on the Constitutional Commission Report. Prepare to vote. Vote now! "For" voted 20 MPs (16 from the Federation, four from RS), eight "against", four "abstained". It's a match. Let's go to point 15. Report on the work of the Management Board of Bosnia and Herzegovina Export Credit Agency for 2009, material number: 01,02-50-3-514/10 of 1.4.2010. - delayed debate at 78th session. Get ready, so we're voting on the adoption of the Report with the Commission's opinion. Prepare to vote. Vote now, a little faster, I'm late. "For" 19 MPs voted, one "against", one "abstained", a sufficient entity majority, was adopted, it was adopted. 141 Let's go to point 16. Report on the implementation of the law in charge of the Central Election Commission for 2009, material number: 01.02-50-3-578/10 of 19. 4. 2010. Prepare to vote. Vote now! "For" voted 27 MPs (15 from the Federation, 12 from the RS), without "against", five "sustained". I find that we have adopted a report on the implementation of the law in the jurisdiction of the Central Election Commission. Let's go to point 17. Information on the state of security in Bosnia and Herzegovina in 2009, material number: 01,02-04-635/10 of 30. 4. 2010. Therefore, we are voting on receiving the information and adoption of Opinion No 2 of the Commission, which reads: 'The Council of Ministers of BiH is in charge of improving existing legal solutions as soon as possible to refer to the parliamentary procedure of the legislative proposal referred to in the section of the Information concerning the measures and actions in the first six months of 2010, namely to the Proposal for a Law on Amendments and Supplements to the Law on Criminal Procedure, the Proposal for a Law on Amendments and Supplements to the Law on Prevention, Prevention and Abuse of Drugs, the Proposal for a Law on Amendments and Supplements to the Law on Border Control and the Amendments to the Law on the State Agency for Investigation and Protection'.' Please prepare to vote. Vote now! "For" voted 23 MPs (14 from the Federation, nine from RS), six "against", three "abstained", enough general and entity majority and I agree that we adopted the Security Information in BiH with Conclusion 2. We also have a proposal for the conclusion of Representative Šefik Džaferović, which reads: 'The Council of Ministers is in charge that in all areas, information on the state of security in BiH where there has been a deterioration in the situation compared to the earlier period makes up special information. The specific information should specify in detail the reasons for the deterioration as well as the proposal for measures to improve the situation." Prepare to vote on Mr. Džaferović's conclusion. Vote now! "For" is 29 MPs (18 from the Federation, 11 from RS), one "against", two "maintained", the general and entity majority are there. The proposal for the conclusion of Mr. Šefik Džaferović was adopted. On this item of the agenda we also have a proposal for the conclusions of MP Denis Bećirović... Here I have some note 'that this issue will be discussed at the follow-up of the 14th joint session of both homes', but here, so let me be specific. The conclusions proposed by Denis Bećirović read: 142 '1. The House of Representatives concludes that on the agenda of the 80th session, it will include the item of the agenda relating to information on the performance of the Light action in Maoca 2. 2. 2010. 2. The House of Representatives... concludes that in the event of a lack of information from the competent ministry at the 80th session, it will raise the issue of responsibility of the Minister of Security at the BiH Council." DENIS
ParlaMint-BA_2010-06-16-0.u35729	/no microphone turned on/
ParlaMint-BA_2010-06-16-0.u35730	So, the promoter proposes a separate vote, let's go to Conclusion 1. Vote now! "It is 24 (13 from the Federation, 11 from the RS), five "against", two "remained" and I find that the conclusion is adopted. Denis Bećirović. We're going to Lock 2. Prepare to vote. Vote now! You said we were just dealing with important things now. "For" is 15 (five from the Federation, 10 from the RS), 13 "against", three "maintained". So there's no entity support from the Federation, a three-day alignment. We're going to point 18. Information on the establishment of responsibilities within the Office for the Review of BiH Appeals for not implementing the provisions of the positive rules concerning the regular rotation procedure at the head position of the Office, with a proposal from the BiH Council of Ministers for the Resolution of Dr. Amira Pilava, member of the BiH Appeal Office, material number: 01,02-50-3-631/10 of 29. 4. 2010. Within this item of the agenda, we had a proposal for the conclusions of MP Azra Hadžiahmetović, whose nature is of such a nature that it should be voted before a statement of information and a motion for resolution. So, I'm asking the promoter, shall we conclude? So let's get to the bottom of this. The Commission notes that the measures provided for in this Regulation are in accordance with the opinion of the Standing Committee on Plants, Animals, Food and Feed, "The information of the BiH Council of Ministers on the determination of responsibilities within the Board of Appeals is rejected." Prepare to vote on Conclusion 1. Vote now! BOY
ParlaMint-BA_2010-06-16-0.u35731	143 [[no microphone turned on]]
ParlaMint-BA_2010-06-16-0.u35732	Here you go, Mr. Novaković.
ParlaMint-BA_2010-06-16-0.u35733	You see, we have information here, and it's logical that we vote on information first. So it's not a rejection, it's who's for Information, so if she refuses it, the first conclusion is respected, and then these two conclusions go after that. It's normal, it's normal.
ParlaMint-BA_2010-06-16-0.u35734	Here's the secretary reminds me that by article 76, it's exactly the way I do. What? _________(?) ...the conclusion of how we're going to vote on this information, that's not clear to me. [[Common discussion]] Azra, as far as I'm concerned, I just don't know what you're thinking, we can vote right now on the Information, and then we'll see about the conclusions that still have the actuality. Please, please, so we're voting on the Information now. So here is the menu and the formula: receiving information and resolving the member of the Office for the Review of Appeals Dr. Amir Pilav. We're voting on this. Prepare to vote. Vote now... Information and resolution of Amir Pilav. Vote now! Time's up, vote fast. Now let's see. The information does not have a general majority and the motion to resolve Amir Pilav has been rejected. Now, Conclusion One. [[Common discussion]]
ParlaMint-BA_2010-06-16-0.u35737	It's a principle old for a new one.
ParlaMint-BA_2010-06-16-0.u35738	And the one who goes to London can say that we adopted,
ParlaMint-BA_2010-06-16-0.u35739	When did we cancel?
ParlaMint-BA_2010-06-16-0.u35740	... Cancellation, 31 "for", no "against", one "abstained", I find that we have adopted. We're going to point 23. Granting consent for ratification of the agreement from point (a) to point (d) (in the call it shall state what conventions are). We vote in the package, prepare to vote. Vote now... "For" is 31, without "against", one "sustained" and I agree that we have agreed to ratify the conventions under points (a) to (d). And just one more announcement, of course, with gratitude for patience and co-operation, the 80th session is the 30th session. Six. 2010 at 10.00 hours. The seat is closed at 7:27 p.m. 146
