ParlaMint-BA_2010-05-12-0.u34598	Ladies and gentlemen of the House of Representatives, honored guests, I am opening the 77th session of the Parliamentary House of Bosnia and Herzegovina. In addition to the representatives, our regular guests were invited: the chairman and members of the BiH presidency, the chairman and members of the BiH Council of Ministers, representatives of OHR, the OSCE and other international organisations in BiH who regularly monitor the work of our home, representatives of certain NGOs. At the meeting, we also invited representatives of the State Regulatory Commission for Electricity, the Office for the Audit of BiH Institutions, the Management Board of the Export-Credit Agency of BiH, the Independent Committee as an independent body of the police structure in BiH, to discuss the report on the work of those institutions. I welcome all present representatives and guests. I also welcome representatives of public information funds. According to the record of the service session there are 35 representatives present. Representatives Zlatko Lagumdžija and Adem Huskić are justly absent, and distinguished MP Milica Marković announced a delay. I find the session has a quorum for work and decision-making. Ladies and gentlemen, before we discuss the agenda proposal, I'd like to say a few words. Namely, as you know, there was a rotation at the head of this high house after the end of the eight-month period in which Dom was chaired by a respected colleague, Milorad Živković. I am using this opportunity to thank Dr. Milorad Živković for his correct cooperation and constructive work during this period and of course to wish that our cooperation continues to be high-level. Also, I want to invite you all to a proper and as good cooperation as possible in the coming months of my chairmanship of this House. I thank you in advance. As for the changes in the agenda, I want to introduce you to the agenda that, compared to the calls you received, we have downloaded point 8. Proposal for a Law on Amendments and Supplements to the Act on the Protection of Secret Information, as the Joint Commission for the Control of Labour of the Intelligence and Security Agency has informed us that, due to the absence of the Proposer, it has not considered the Proposal for a Law. The House College has set the deadline for the delivery of the report by 21. Five this year. Point 27(c) of the Agreement on financing between BiH and the Commission of the European Communities in connection with horizontal programmes on nuclear safety and radiation protection under pre-accession assistance instruments in 2008, as the Committee on Foreign Affairs did not consider this agreement because of the absence of the applicant and did not deliver an opinion. 2 to the agenda we added point 4. Request of the Joint Committee for Human Rights, Rights of the Child, Youth, Immigration, Refugees, Asylum and Ethics to Consider Amendments and Supplements to the Code of Conduct for Representatives and Envoys in the Parliamentary Assembly of BiH following a hasty procedure, in accordance with Article 127. The Rules of Procedure of the House. I'm opening a debate on the proposed agenda. I don't see any reports, we don't have any reports. I'm saying... _________(?) [[no microphone turned on]] Dear Representative Drago Kalabić.
ParlaMint-BA_2010-05-12-0.u34600	Mr. Chairman, here I am taking the opportunity to wish you a lot of success in the work at this place and to thank Mr. Živković for his successful leadership in the past. This is not a proposal for a agenda point but more than one suggestion for the College, so we will agree in the next period whether there is a need for a point. I suggest that the College consider the possibility that entity features can be found in the building of this house or in this room itself. I'm saying this because when we visit parliaments around the world, we see that the constitutional structure of the country is arranged so that you see immediately in both the way and in the halls and in the buildings, and here we have no such situation. It is known that this country is composed of two entities where the government is made up of three constituent nations. So, I consider this a technical question and there's no reason, there's a clear relationship, given... that we have across the country, and what I think is okay is that the state flags, the state features in all institutions. The entity traits cannot replace the state feature, that we fully understand each other, but there is no reason why, as countries and Western Europe and all others have done, when you see immediately how the symbols of the province, the region, I don't know, everything that makes up their constitutional structure. I don't think there's any reason for us to do this here and that when people come here and in the documentation this Parliament has and the presentations that they can see from it. It is one suggestion that the Sekretarijat finds ways to do so in technical terms, and, if necessary, this House of Representatives may eventually define it in some way in a way that suits all. Thank you.
ParlaMint-BA_2010-05-12-0.u34601	Thank you. Next reported is Honorable Representative Denis Bećirović 3
ParlaMint-BA_2010-05-12-0.u34602	Mr. Chairman, I have a brief suggestion to the College of the House of Representatives. Namely, the next meeting of the House of Representatives was planned for May 25th. Since it is known to everyone that on May 25th, the anniversary of the murder of 71 young man, so the day of tragedy and the Tuzlan and Bosnian hergic youth, I would really like to ask you, here is a session before, in time, to extend that term so that the session will be held either before or after May 25th. Thank you.
ParlaMint-BA_2010-05-12-0.u34603	Thank you. Are there any more reported on this agenda point? I can only promise you, once and for all, that the College will consider both questions and that you will be informed of the results of your proposals. So we're done arguing. I find that the 77th session of the House has the following 1. The adoption of the minutes of the 76th session of the House of Representatives; 2. Opinions on answers received, (b) New parliamentary issues; 3. The request of MP Jerko Ivanković Lijanović to consider the Bill on Amendments and Supplements to the Election Law of Bosnia and Herzegovina under a hasty procedure, in accordance with Article 127. Rules of Procedure, Law No 01-02-9-3310 of 22. 4. 2010; 4. Request of the Joint Committee for Human Rights, Rights of the Child, Youth, Immigration, Refugees, Asylum and Ethics to Consider Amendments and Supplements to the Code of Conduct for Representatives and Envoys in the Parliamentary Assembly of BiH following a hasty procedure, in accordance with Article 127. Rules of Procedure, Proposal No 01-02-34-6-64910 of 7. 5. 2010; 5. Proposal for a Law on Copyright and Related Rights – Proposer of the Council of Ministers of BiH, Law No 01,02-02-2-510 of 18. 1. 2010 (second reading); 6. Proposal for a Law on collective exercise of copyright and related rights – Proposer of the Council of Ministers of BiH, Law No 01,02-02-2-410 of 18. 1. 2010 (second reading); 7. Proposal for a law on the application of the results of deoxyribonucleic acid analysis in court proceedings – Proposer of the Council of Ministers of BiH, Law No 01,02-02-5-910 of 25. 1. In 2010 (second reading); 8 / 8 Proposal for a Law amending and supplementing the Law on Labour in the Institutions of Bosnia and Herzegovina – Proposer of the Council of Ministers of BiH, Law No 01,02-02-7-1110 of 28. 1. 2010 (second reading); 4 9. Proposal for a law amending and supplementing the Law on the financing of political parties – MPs Milorad Živković, Niko Lozančić and Šefik Džaferović, Law No 01-02-4-2510 of 24. 3. 2010 (second reading); 10. Proposal for a law prohibiting all fascist and neo-fascist organisations and the use of their signs in Bosnia and Herzegovina – Proposer of the Council of Ministers of BiH, Law No 01,02-02-9-2710 of 9. 4. 2010 (first reading); 11. Proposal for a Law on Amendments and Supplements to the Law on the conduct of a judicial examination in Bosnia and Herzegovina – Proposed by the Council of Ministers of BiH, Law No 01,02-02-5-2810 of 14. 4. 2010 (first reading); 12. Proposal for a Law on the Public Enterprise for the issue of the official votes of Bosnia and Herzegovina – Proposer of the Council of Ministers of BiH, Law No 01,02-02-9-3210 of 22. 4. 2010 (first reading); 13. Proposal for a Law on Amendments and Supplements to the Service Act in the Armed Forces of Bosnia and Herzegovina – Proposer Niko Lozančić, Law No 01-02-8-2410 of 23. 3. 2010 (first reading); 14. Report from the Joint Committee on the Efforts to reach agreement on the same text of the Working Time Act, the mandatory vacations of mobile workers and road transport recording devices; 15. Report by the Joint Committee on the efforts of both homes to reach agreement on the same text of the Law on Amendments and Supplements to the Road Safety Act in BiH; 16. Report by the Joint Committee on the efforts of both homes to reach agreement on the same text of the Law on Amendments and Supplements to the Law on Foreign Direct Investment Policy in Bosnia and Herzegovina; 17. Report from the Joint Committee on the efforts of both homes to reach agreement on the same text of the Law on Mine Action in Bosnia and Herzegovina; 18. Information on the work of the BiH Prosecutor's Office for 2009, material number 01-09-51510 of 2. 4. 2010; 19. Report on the work of the National Regulatory Commission for Electricity in 2009, material No 01,02-29-52310 of 6. 4. 2010; 20. Report on the activities of Bosnia and Herzegovina's 2009 Audit Office, material number 01-50-3-51210 of 12. 4. 2010; 21. Report on the work of the Management Board of Bosnia and Herzegovina Export Credit Agency for 2009, material No 01,02-50-3-51410 of 1. 4. 2010; 22. Report on the work of the Independent Committee as an independent body of police structure in Bosnia and Herzegovina for 2009 and Plan of the Independent Committee as an independent body of police structure in Bosnia and Herzegovina for 2010, material No 01,02-50-3-58210 of 20. 4. 2010; 23. Report on the work of the Interim Commission for the Preparation of the Bill on Census, Households and Apartments in Bosnia and Herzegovina 2011, material No 01-50-1-340-810 of 30. 4. 2010; 24. A statement on Representative Momčilo Novaković's initiative to discuss the agenda item at the House meeting "Determining guidelines for the action of temporary delegations which, on behalf of Bosnia and Herzegovina, take part in international meetings"; 5 25. Report by the College Committee on Efforts of Understanding on the Proposal for Conclusions of Representatives Zlatko Lagumdžija from the 76th session of the House, held 21. 4. In 2010, on the debate on the Amendment Law proposal for amendments to the Service Act in the Armed Forces of BiH, MP Niko Lozančić; 26. Report by the College Committee on Efforts to reach agreement on the SDA Club's proposal for a conclusion from the 76th session of the House, held on 21. 4. In 2010, on the debate on the Amendment Law proposal for amendments and additions to the Service Act in the Armed Forces of BiH, proposed by MP Niko Lozančić; 27. Giving consent to the ratification agreement (a) on funding between Bosnia and Herzegovina and the European Investment Bank – Credit of the Republika Srpska Investment and Development Bank for Small and Medium-sized Enterprises, (b) Loan Agreement between Bosnia and Herzegovina and the International Bank for Reconstruction and Development (IBRD) – Improving access to financial projects for small and medium-sized enterprises, (c) Convention on the ban on cartridges – Oslo, 3 December 2008, (d) Treaty between Bosnia and Herzegovina and the Republic of Serbia on amendments to the Treaty between Bosnia and Herzegovina and Montenegro on Legal Assistance in Civil and Criminal Matters. Before we move to the debate on the established agenda, just to brief you briefly that we have agreed to take a lunch break at 1400 hours, and that today's session will be closed before 18.00 hours, and if we don't finish by 18.00, then we will declare the term of the continuation of this session. Moving to point one, Ad. 1. The adoption of the 76th session of the House of Representatives
ParlaMint-BA_2010-05-12-0.u34607	Thank you, Your Honor. Dear fellow Members of Parliament, members of the Council of Ministers, esteemed guests, I warmly welcome you all. I asked the Council of Ministers a parliamentary question: "Do you and when do you intend to propose a Diaspora Law to the Parliamentary Assembly of BiH?" I got the answer. I am pleased with the answer, but the result, in my opinion, is that no one is obstructing this law in the process. The answer says that the problem with this ministry's work is human rights and refugees. In 2008, the draft law on the diaspora BiH was established. The ministry has prepared a 'Proposed Decision on the appointment of the Commission for Draft Diaspora Law', which was agreed with the opinion of the Office for Law and the Ministry of the Treasury of BiH and sent to the Council of Ministers for adoption. The Committee on the Interior Policy of the Council of Ministers supported the proposal for a decision to appoint the Commission, with the suggestion of including entity representatives in the composition of this committee. On the basis of the conclusion of the Committee on the Interior Policy of the Council of Ministers, the entity ministry has requested a proposal from a representative to work in this commission. The Federation has sent, respected, while the RS has not submitted a proposal for this commission, not after more than one emergency. Since the competence of the diaspora at the state level and esteeming that the involvement of entity representatives in the drafting of this law is not binding, the ministry has again sent a proposal to the Council of Ministers to appoint this commission without entity representatives, as it has already proposed representatives of the four ministries at the state level, the Ministry of Human Rights, the Ministry of Foreign Affairs, the Ministry of Justice and the Ministry of Civil Affairs, taking into account the national structure of the members of this commission. This ream 7 of the ministry's proposal has never been included in the Council of Ministers' agenda after more than a year of waiting and after more than an emergency. So again, my question can be asked to the Council of Ministers, chairing Nikola Špirić: "Why does this proposal not go to parliamentary procedure?" Thank you.
ParlaMint-BA_2010-05-12-0.u34608	Thank you. Next is Honorable Representative Mirko Okolić.
ParlaMint-BA_2010-05-12-0.u34609	Thank you, Mr. Chairman. Dear fellow Members of the Parliament, honourable representatives of the Council of Ministers, international organisations, NGOs, representatives of information funds, dear guests, here, I will make my comment on the parliamentary question I received in the light of the answers. Before that, I must read the parliamentary question in order to make it clear what I am commenting on. I asked the question: 'How many people at the Ministry of Security are currently working... under a contract of action or a contract of work, on which jobs and by national structure? I ask that I be provided with an overview of all the work contracts or work in the past three years on the national structure, with an explanation of why we had a direct need to conclude such contracts." I didn't get the contracts, I'll start by saying that, but I'm going to comment further. Here's the answer, and I think for a reason I asked this parliamentary question, and yet it came from certain needs of the Ministry of Security staff and the situation that shows it. The BiH Ministry of Security currently employs 28 perpetrators, of whom 15 are employed in the work of a civil servant, and 13 are in the work of employees or workers. E, the national structure of employees based on a fixed-term contract is the following: 13 Bošnjak, 11 Hrvat and 4 Srbin. That's why I'm about to ask this question, and we're still going to see the point. The contracts on the work were concluded depending on the ministry's needs and 19 contracts on the work are currently concluded. So that's the moment. During 2009, 47 contracts were concluded for a certain time, of which 30 at the position of a civil servant, and 12 at the position of employees... If I didn't keep reading this for years, it doesn't matter that much, but it's important why I say it. For performance contracts, there is no legal obligation to keep records of the national structure for persons with whom these contracts have been concluded, and it has not been kept. It might be better for the Ministry of Security if they didn't make this conclusion eventually, because this is how it can be seen that it is also being misused and disrupting the national structure in certain BiH institutions. It is evident here that through the law that this national structure cannot be violated, but it is possible in this way, i.e. by concluding an act or contract of work. They themselves admitted that these labor contracts and the work were not subject to any control, that the head of this ministry or anything else could self-initiatively... 8
ParlaMint-BA_2010-05-12-0.u34610	Time!
ParlaMint-BA_2010-05-12-0.u34611	That is why I will launch the initiative for the new agenda item, which is 'Information on concluded contracts for work or work in all ministries, directorates, agencies and other BiH administrative organisations of 1. 1. 2007 to 12. 5. In 2010, by national structure, school preparation, workplace and duration of the contract.' I'll deliver it now that I've written it. Thank you.
ParlaMint-BA_2010-05-12-0.u34612	Thank you. The next is Honourable representative Željko Kuzmanović.
ParlaMint-BA_2010-05-12-0.u34613	Thank you, Mr. Chairman. Ladies and gentlemen of the Parliament, the distinguished guests, asked my parliamentary question at the 73rd session of the House of Representatives, which reads - What was the Ministry of Communications and Transport in BiH that took place in connection with the theft of the official vehicle of Pasat, which occurred at the end of last year, and who was in charge of the said vehicle and the basis of which act - I received an answer to the question, i.e. on the first part of the question I received a decadent answer. So there's been an orderly report of theft to the Canton of Sarajevo. It shows here that the theft was done on the street. Konak bb, or near the Franciscan monastery in Sarajevo. However, on the second part of the question, 'who, at the time of the disappearance of the vehicle, was in charge of that vehicle and on the basis of which it acts', it is said here that it is Mr. Gagulić, head of the cabinet of the minister, and that in the Ministry of Communications and Transport, official vehicles are not assigned to use a special decision but are used according to official needs. Since it is quite unclear what act Mr. Gagulić, or for what official purposes the vehicle was used, because I can only conclude from this that on the night of Friday, on December 4th, Mr. Gagulić was probably on an official visit to the Franciscan monastery, I will repeat the second part of the question and ask this ministry to deliver to me what official needs this vehicle was used for? Thank you.
ParlaMint-BA_2010-05-12-0.u34614	Thank you. The next one is Commissioner Nermina Zaimović-Uzunović-Uzunovic.
ParlaMint-BA_2010-05-12-0.u34615	Thank you very much, Chairman. 9 My colleagues and colleagues, esteemed guests, I asked the following parliamentary question at the 71st session of this house, so on February 3rd of this year: "What has the Ministry of Foreign Trade and Economic Relations of BiH done in the area of environmental protection against pollution resulting from the work of investors in the entire territory of BiH?" First of all, I'm going to say that I got this answer relatively quickly and thank you for your up-to-dateness. But as for the content, I didn't actually get anything, I didn't get any answers. Namely, I got the answer that there is... within the environmental sector. That's what we knew, we could read it from the website that exists. Second, what are jurisdiction, or what are business. And we knew that. So I didn't ask what I could read, I asked what they did on concrete things. Unfortunately, the answer I got wasn't even far... satisfying. So I absolutely didn't get any answers. I got the implementation of international agreements under certain laws and procedures of the Federal Ministry, or the Ministry of RS, which I didn't even ask, so, which I think is completely familiar with. And from that very point of view that I know of, I asked what was done at this state level. So, those who responded or thought, first of all, there's a possibility that they thought that we had no idea that they existed and that they needed to inform us that they existed. And another possibility, and I appreciate from what I've got, that they've done nothing, so they have nothing to answer. And I'm sorry to say that I won't ask this again, because apparently I'm going to bring some people in this ministry into an awkward situation that they have to write that they haven't done anything if they haven't, if they have, they're probably going to answer for themselves and say what they've done in the past. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-BA_2010-05-12-0.u34616	I thank the honourable representative. The next is distinguished representative Šemsudin Mehmedović.
ParlaMint-BA_2010-05-12-0.u34617	Madam Chairman, ladies and gentlemen of the Parliament, members of the Council of Ministers, I welcome you. At one of the previous sessions, I asked the management of the Agency for Medicinal Products in respect of respect, i.e. disrespecting the provisions of the members of the Drug Law. And I have to be honest that I am satisfied with the answer, i.e. with a detailed and comprehensive answer from the Director of the Medicines Agency, and in that answer it is actually just confirming my question, i.e. the drive to prove that the provisions of the Drug Act are not respected. Namely, in Article 65. The laws on medicinal products where additional conditions are defined for carrying out the traffic of medicinal products on a large scale are laid down basic and additional conditions. The Director also confirms that the provisions of the law are not respected in the sense that those legal entities that want to deal with the traffic of medicinal products on a large scale should have an employee responsible for placing the medicinal product on the market which is responsible for the quality control of each imported batch of medicinal product, in accordance with the authorisation issued for placing on the market, and under b) have concluded a contract with the medicines laboratory in accordance with the provisions of Article 79. The law. A large number of legal entities, i.e. MAHs, have not coordinated their organisation of 10 or their business with the provisions of this law. So the Agency didn't apply the legal provisions to sanction it. Is it looking through the fingers of some major drug dealers in BiH and what are the motives for such a thing? I'll probably ask an additional parliamentary question in the follow-up to this agenda point. It is then stated in Article 80(4) that the conditions, circumstances and procedure for the involvement of an authorised laboratory for the purpose of quality control of medicinal products are to require that the Director of the Agency, prior to the conclusion of the contract with authorised laboratories, in fact seek the consent of the Expert Council, i.e. the conditions, circumstances and procedure for the engagement of an authorised laboratory for quality control purposes, and the way in which the records of controls carried out in this manner are kept. Well, when the Expert Council adopts the proposal, join the signing of a contract that must comply with the provisions of a document prescribed by the Expert Council, which is not unfortunately the case with a signed agreement with one of the laboratories in Belgrade. And of course, the issue of pharmaceutical inspection. It is obvious that all activities consist of arresting certain persons, so to speak, in the composition of the Medicines Agency, which can certainly have very negative consequences on the quality control of pharmaceutical products that have flooded BiH in a very suspicious way. Therefore, in the follow-up to this agenda, I will ask an additional question to the Council of Ministers. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-BA_2010-05-12-0.u34618	Thank you. Next is Honorable Representative Selim Bešlagić, who is not present;... The next is distinguished representative Lazar Prodabnović.
ParlaMint-BA_2010-05-12-0.u34619	Mr. Chairman, I would like to join the other colleagues and congratulate you on your duties as chairman of the House of Representatives. I would like to comment on my answer to the question I received from the Return Fund. First of all, I would like to thank the Council of Ministers and the Fund for returning to detailed information. I also hope that if the impact of significant funds were to be audited to justify the funds invested to bring BiH citizens back to their former places of life and create conditions for a sustainable return. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-BA_2010-05-12-0.u34620	Thank you. Here, a distinguished representative of Selim Bešlagić has just arrived. Here you go.
ParlaMint-BA_2010-05-12-0.u34621	Thank you. 11 I apologize, the right to tell you in these materials... I didn't get an answer so I went and I found... an answer and I thank you for answering even though I knew him. I asked the question, "How many cases in this House did an entity vote happen in this House?" I got an answer to use the website because there's all the data. I have to say thank you for the suggestions right away. Exactly, using a website on the website does not have a type of voting, or whether it is an entity failure or not an entity failure. And that's why I asked for a little answer so we could potentiate the subject of entity voting. Unfortunately, I didn't get an answer, which in other words says that your suggestion to go to a website to get these elements isn't correct, it's not true. And here, I'm happy with the answer because it's the answer, but I didn't get the answer to my question.
ParlaMint-BA_2010-05-12-0.u34622	Thank you. Dear Representative Okolić has already commented. Is this an application for the next one?
ParlaMint-BA_2010-05-12-0.u34623	No microphone turned on
ParlaMint-BA_2010-05-12-0.u34624	Okay. A second question comment, please. Dear Representative Mirko Okolić.
ParlaMint-BA_2010-05-12-0.u34625	Thank you, Mr. Chairman. Also, and my congratulations on this assigned duty, and I want you to be successful until the end of this term. I've got two answers. That's why two comments. I asked the question: 'Did the Department of Justice's administrative inspection ever so far exercise control over the legality of making work or work contracts for a certain time at the Ministry of Security? If he did give me that information, if he didn't mean it.' Here's the answer I got. The BiH Department of Justice's administrative inspection does not exercise control over the legality of concluding an act contract for the reason that the contract on the work is a bond law contract, not a labour law contract. So another possibility to abuse the national structure based on these possibilities. He says: "The administrative inspection has not yet carried out administrative inspection at the BiH Ministry of Security for the reason that a small number of people, or with reduced capacity, are working in the Administrative Inspectorate (only one inspector working on about 24,000 employees in the authorities, of the five inspectors envisaged)." So, the number's down, and then in the parentheses, there's only one inspector on 24 thousand employees. It says that this isn't an accident, this must be made up because don't fill these jobs for the reasons I just set up earlier is questionable, and it's likely that something will come out of this. 12 'According to the above..., as soon as the conditions are created and the administrative inspectorate is completed... inspection will be carried out of the application of labour regulations, under official duty, at the BiH Ministry of Security. You will be informed of the findings of the Administrative Inspector in good time if this inspectorate is filled.' Since there is no story about it yet, no possibility that it will be filled in in probably one half of a year, I will never be informed of this, and probably because of this dissatisfaction with such an answer and of this fact, I will have to run some more initiatives in this Inspectorate. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-BA_2010-05-12-0.u34626	Thank you. We're done with comments received. Moving on to: b) New parliamentary issues The first is Honorable representative Selim Bešlagić.
ParlaMint-BA_2010-05-12-0.u34628	Dear Chairman, congratulations on your taking over as chairman. I want to ask two questions here today. One question is about the Public Enterprise of the Geodetic Institute and it reads: 'How and why did it happen that the Committee for the List of State Property and the Council of Ministers of BiH (the chairman is Mr. Zvonimir Kutleša)... the property of the Public Enterprise of the Geodetics Institute of BiH in the list of state assets? First, the enrolment in the ownership list of the ZK cartridge clearly indicates that the company, as well as all other economic operators, is the owner of its property with 1/1 ownership. I also have a contribution to the excerpt. Second, as the Council of Ministers concluded at the 70th session of the Council of Ministers, held on 19 May 2016. 11. In 2004, on the basis of information on the aspects of the implementation of Article 29. The law on ministries and other authorities of the administration,... found out, quoted what was found, so: 'It is a public enterprise, not an authority of the administration... and it was a mistake in the position (1) of the members... The law on the ministries and other bodies of the BiH administration." I contribute to the report on the work of the Council of Ministers. And thirdly... The legal department... The High Representative, act No 0032010 and..., from 2 March 2010, addressed to the Commission for State Property, gave clarification on the entry of assets for formal reasons but it is an explanation that it is a commercial entity which includes and deletes it from the list of these assets. And that's where I contribute to the act... The Office of the High Representative. 13 And fourthly, were the members of the Commission for the List of State Property Bakšić Mirza, Kemo Arnautović and Luka Knežević employed by this company? Mr. Bakšić was the technical director. So, I delegate the question: 'When will the Commission act by letter of the Public Enterprise Geodetic Institute of BiH from 7.1.2010, correct the obvious error, and inform this home but also the business entities, and thus finally enable this company to carry out a smooth process of transfer of the rights of the founders, in accordance with the Council of Ministers and decisions to take over the Public Enterprise of the Geodetic Institute of BiH from March last year?' The second question: 'On the basis of Act A-86/10 of 25.3.2010 of the BiH Prosecutor's Office, it is evident that Mr Mladen Božović, director of the BiH Return Fund, is currently under investigation of the prosecutor's office and because of a reasonable suspicion of the crimes committed... more persons against whom SIPA, under official duty, has filed nine criminal offences... The subject is... Reasons transferred to the Special Branch of Limited Crime. Only one of the evidence is an illegal payment of 2,000 euros on behalf of,
ParlaMint-BA_2010-05-12-0.u34629	Time!
ParlaMint-BA_2010-05-12-0.u34630	on behalf of '', here I conclude, 'a postgraduate study in Novi Sad, named after which the Office for the Review of BiH has also given its opinion. The second proof is a letter from Transparency International BiH to the Council of Ministers on Criminal Crimes... by the crimes committed by Mr Mladen Božović." I ask the question 'How could the Council of Ministers re-name this gentleman as director of this organization? ...you don't understand...
ParlaMint-BA_2010-05-12-0.u34631	Thank you. The next is distinguished representative Šemsudin Mehmedović.
ParlaMint-BA_2010-05-12-0.u34632	Mr. Chairman, as promised, here I am asking the Council of Ministers and the Ministry of Civil Affairs as the competent ministry. First: 'What will the Council of Ministers do according to the Agency for Medicinal Products for failure to comply with the Law on Medicinal Products in terms of agent issues and answers received, because it is obviously a violation of the provisions of the Drug Act?' And secondly, the 14th Council of Ministers agreed to the Internal Organisation and Systematization Regulation of the Medicines Agency. A completely different text of the Regulation has been delivered to the BiH State Service Agency by the Director of the Medicines Agency. Question: In what way will they sanction such illegal behavior of the director because it is obvious that it is a falsification?' Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-BA_2010-05-12-0.u34633	Thank you. The next is distinguished representative Husein Nanić.
ParlaMint-BA_2010-05-12-0.u34634	I thank you, Chairman. First of all, congratulations on the election and the desire to work successfully in our parliament's leadership. I would like to ask the next parliamentary question today. It is addressed to the BiH Justice Ministry. Since... this home is at the 73rd session, held on 13. 3rd of this year, so two months ago, on my proposal, the House of Representatives supported the conclusion that the Council of Ministers had been tasked with doing and in parliamentary procedure referred to the Law on the Lustration of BiH, so I ask the Ministry of Justice and the Minister: 'Is the draft of the law prepared and when and will it be in parliamentary procedure?' The second question is a question for the Council of Ministers and the Secretariat of the Parliamentary Assembly of BiH, and it is caused by the information that the means of information has announced that some of the MPs, not to speak the name now, have used so-called. the official apartment and that it has certain problems, so some procedures are being conducted, etc. This was one new information for me, and I ask the question: "Is the Parliamentary Assembly of BiH having apartments in its possession, does it have criteria for the assignment of these apartments, and who is using these apartments? The same question is also for the Council of Ministers: does the Council of Ministers have housing,... who uses these apartments and on what criteria are these apartments assigned?" And next, I would like to take the opportunity to initiate the adoption of a declaration, a declaration that I am offering to this Parliamentary Assembly of BiH, which is a 'Declaration on the conviction of mass violations of the human rights of the civilian population in the Cazin region of 1950 and crimes committed by the competent authorities of Yugoslavia, i.e. the FNRJ'. The declaration calls for all resolutions... The Council of Europe on measures to degrade the violence of former communist totalitarian systems. It also calls for a European Parliament resolution since April 2009 on European conscience and totalitarianism. And, among other things, I just want to highlight one thing here from this declaration, which MPs will have the opportunity to see, that then measures of arbitrary arrest, imprisonment without trial, tyranny and oppression of the population of the Casino region, which the state took, had no legal basis in Yugoslav laws, international law and international customs. Massacred arrests, liquidations, illegal convictions, unjust conduct of court proceedings, deportation, mistreatment of arrested, theft and destruction of private property, intentional imposition of civil life conditions calculated to lead them to physical and mental destruction – constitute illegal, illegal acts of the then state and 15 party authorities. ... The text of this declaration is here and it appears right now on the 60th anniversary, so on May 5th and 6th 1950, the famous Casin rebellion was – and it appears on the 60th anniversary of the event in the Cazin region. Thank you.
ParlaMint-BA_2010-05-12-0.u34635	Thank you. The next is the distinguished representative Slavko Jovičić.
ParlaMint-BA_2010-05-12-0.u34636	Thank you very much, Your Honor. Of course, and my congratulations on taking office. And what I'm about to start the initiative is not to congratulate, this is for shame and shame, and I ask for the next session of the House of Representatives to take over the House of Representatives' role to really see what the Directorate of indirect taxation is doing. We're witnesses, actually I'm not a witness, I have little information, but what I've collected from the media I see is that there are about 2,000 cars that need to go to allegedly recycling. I ask the question: 'Is there even one car right that should go to auction without damage to the budget, and so far it has been damaged by several tens of thousands or hundreds of thousands of marks that have been paid, as it is called, a deck and a lease of space where they are stored? And it's just amazing that out of 2,000 cars, someone can't determine if there's 10 right ones, so someone can benefit. Here, you don't have to Parliament, here's no need for the BiH institutions, but to give some charity, hospital, the Red Cross, I don't know who. Why don't these gentlemen put their cars in private for recycling?' The other thing is, we're waiting, so maybe I've contributed, too, to take down that seven-to-seven import limit, so we'll have every piece of trash here. All these procedures have been completed in a first-degree and second-degree procedure before institutions. The cars have been taken legally and no one has any more rights. Which way were they brought in, as it was, not to go in, so I'm looking for information to get it: who was doing all kinds of illegal imports because those cars were also with criminals, thieves, mobsters, because nobody else did, that it was fair already the users would be famous. So, to take responsibility for this Parliament and not to form an ad hoc commission by politicians, but -- here's the first time I'm using this Parliament at the end of the term, although I get a chill when I hear the word "experts" and the results are zero, each here is an expert on something -- let's form an expert group of experts in machine, electrical professions, traffic, who can determine which car meets the conditions to be found on the road in driving condition, not on waste and recycling. And that again BiH's budget, along with these additionally, as many as tens and hundreds of thousands of marks are already damaged by paying the deck there and storage, in the open of course that cars will be destroyed by weather, and now it needs to be destroyed. So I'm asking where you're going to destroy it, even if we had such opportunities, rather than looking for it, I have an initiative, when this agenda point comes, all the information from everyone, and we say that we have the Institute of Traffic, we have institutes of various our own, we have extraordinary experts and they say that these cars can go, they meet the conditions to be found on the road, they can go to a sales tender so that we can at least benefit ourselves. And no, whoever comes, is only damaging this country, as I already have that initiative about those 16 prosecutors: losing all the processes and now we have to pay again, and in the budget we don't have the intended stamps for it. That's why I'm starting that initiative. You'll get it in writing. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-BA_2010-05-12-0.u34637	Thank you. The next is the distinguished representative Lejla Klokić.
ParlaMint-BA_2010-05-12-0.u34638	Thank you. Dear Chairman, distinguished colleagues and colleagues, esteemed members of the Council of Ministers and Guests, I will not actually submit a parliamentary question but I am submitting an initiative to put on the agenda a point that would read as follows: 'Advising reports on the state of emigration, the situation and the problems facing them, learning the native language, preserving culture, with a proposal for measures to develop BiH's relations with the diaspora'. The reasons why I submit this initiative lie in the fact that we are one of the countries that has the most diaspora in the world compared to the total population. According to official data from the BiH Ministry of Human Rights and Refugees, about a million and 350,000 Bosnian-Herzegovina people live abroad, or over one third of the total Bosnian-Herzegovina population. Also often in the domestic public and in the diaspora, it is mentioned that the diaspora sends huge amounts of money to BiH. It is also mentioned that in the diaspora there are a large number of Bosnian-Herzegovina experts who are ready to contribute with their knowledge and expertise or have already contributed in a certain way to the development of various areas in BiH. Also, the reasons for... the submission of this initiative lie in the fact that the BiH Parliamentary Assembly has never received any official report on the situation in this area, and that the 5th congress of the Bosnian-Herzegovina diaspora will be organised between 21 and 23 March this year. I therefore deliver this stated initiative and ask it to be classified as the item of the agenda of the next session. Thank you.
ParlaMint-BA_2010-05-12-0.u34639	Thank you. The next is Honourable representative Sadik Bahtić.
ParlaMint-BA_2010-05-12-0.u34640	I thank you, Chairman, and with a delay, and I congratulate you on taking over the presidency and I want successful work by the end of the term of office. 17 I support my kolega Nanić on this initiative about the Casin rebellion, and I think we should refer the lustration law here as quickly as possible, because lustration solves all these issues. Eh, that would be the only problem with some parties losing their staff, not having anyone to work with. My first question is for the BiH Ministry of Transport and Communications and the Federation of BiH. I have repeatedly asked this question, as did counterpart Nanić, but so far there has been no realisation on the ground. And since there has been a change of management in the Federation of BiH Railways, I am again asking this question. I ask the rest of the ministry to say to me, "What has been done so far and what is it that it plans to do to connect USK to other parts of BiH, the capital of Sarajevo, neighbouring countries and the EU?" We're the gates of Europe, and believe me, we're the appendix. 'When will this ministry reconstruct and launch the USK railway line: Bihac to Croatia and Sarajevo to connect USK and Krajina to Sarajevo and neighbouring countries?' Believe me, the railroad is so abandoned that it's ugly to look at in the 21st century, signalling is not okay, danger every day, no one is doing anything, and the Federation's budget every year is being invested in a railway subsidy, even loans are being raised, and nothing is being invested in the Un-San canton. I was talking about the corridor and the fast road. Also, there are no Krajisniks anywhere, obviously we are the Krajišnik only cut off from the center, the appendix in the state, and what kind of message is sent to us, looks like, richtung Croatia, Croatia. It's open and clear, loud and clear - you don't want to bet on it. The krajišnik speak loudly, and I think it should be said here that those who make road plans do because it takes us four or five hours to get to Sarajevo. We know that I don't speak from an economic aspect, where there's no good communication, roads, railways, there's no investment, no investment, no economy, no quality life. I am still asking the Ministry of Communications and Traffic to answer my questions about future plans, means road and rail integration of the USK with other parts of BiH and countries in the environment. The second question is also to the Council of Ministers and the Agency for Intellectual Property of BiH: 'When does the term of office of the Institute of Intellectual Property stand out and has the Council of Ministers launched a competition procedure for this institution? What is the national structure of Mostar, Banja Luka and Sarajevo? What organization has a license, a solution to the jurisdiction of copyright?' I've been in touch with a series of bh. The author of this life's sphere, who deals with these affairs. All say that there is a great confusion in the exercise of copyright and that an unsettled area as well as in other areas. The confusion was recognised by the director of the Institute of Intellectual Property herself in her official presentation at the Public Discussion on the Law on Copyright and the Law on collective exercise of rights, held before this parliament. Why is there confusion when the Institute of Intellectual Property is in charge of overseeing the law of 18 copyright spheres? With which organization... is it to conclude contracts that regulate copyright, in order to meet one of the terms of the authorisation they receive from the RAC?
ParlaMint-BA_2010-05-12-0.u34641	Time!
ParlaMint-BA_2010-05-12-0.u34642	I'll be right there. I especially have objections to the national structure, which I asked myself: 'There is information that some people do not do their job in accordance with jurisdiction, and some don't even come to work, and they get paid neatly.' Thank you.
ParlaMint-BA_2010-05-12-0.u34643	Thank you. Next is Honorable Representative Rifat Dolić.
ParlaMint-BA_2010-05-12-0.u34644	Mr. Chairman, colleagues and colleagues, distinguished guests, and I join the congratulations and wishes for successful work by President Lozančić after the rotation is done. I have one parliamentary question and one initiative today. The question is the Minister of Transport and Communications in the Council of Ministers: 'By what rules, what criteria and by whose decision has the distribution of funds from the profits and licences of GSM operators in the Federation of BiH for 2008 and 2009 per canton and municipalities and who has proposed projects to be financed from these funds?' To ask this question, I was encouraged to learn that at the end of 2009, the Federal Ministry of Transport and Communications deployed around 50 million KM from the funds of profits and licenses of GSM operators in the Federation for financing projects to build and rehabilitate road infrastructure from the cantonal importance of municipalities in the Federation of BiH. I know reliably that these funds were allocated to the UN-Sancanton without any priority, that the municipalities had no impact on this, that the proposal of the projects was carried out by the officials of the Cantonal Committee of the SDA and that a Cantonal Directorate for Roads was designated for the project, although no project of cantonal importance was run among the projects. It is the projects of rural private and electoral roads to houses and villages of party officials and activists, and the regional roads of the Unsko-San canton cannot be passed from the rinks, holes and patches. A similar schedule was prepared for 2009, and projects are planned to be implemented in pre-election time. Secondly, it means an initiative to the Federal Defence and Advocate General to urgently take measures to protect Agrokomerac's assets from illegal sales, which, in its conclusion, is of 5. 4th of this year and by setting up a second hearing for oral public competition, the Municipal Court of the Great Claudium has scheduled for 20. 5. 2010 It is an executive case on 19 requests from the company "Lijanovići" - Široki Brijeg, "Triglav BH Insurance" - Sarajevo, CIRCLE International - Medjugorje, and a group of 97 workers "Agrokomerac" with executive convictions on the basis of unpaid salaries. It is the sale of the food and meat industry complex, and the sale of gas stations in the center of the Great Claudium. I am responsibly saying that there are elements of organised crime from fictitious claims to sprawling between the legal lobby and the court in order for lawyers to sell the most attractive remaining assets of Agrokomerac to collect the baseless sums of money in the name of representation in front of the court, and for pre-known customers to come to attractive assets for symbolic money. I believe there is no excuse in such a criminal way to strike a deadly blow to the most attractive food complex in BiH at a time when BiH courts haven't handled shareholders' lawsuits in years, while the Federation government has never carried out the Human Rights House verdict and in Strasbourg the process of shareholders "Agrokomerac-Comer“ is being conducted in the final phase. I call on the federal attorney to take action under official duty to stop this executive procedure, because otherwise damages will occur with inconspicuous consequences. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-BA_2010-05-12-0.u34645	Thank you. The next is distinguished representative Mehmed Suljkanović.
ParlaMint-BA_2010-05-12-0.u34646	Dear Chairman, esteemed colleagues and colleagues, distinguished guests, at the beginning of their congratulations to Mr. Lozančić in the field of taking office as chairman of the House College, with a desire for successful work. My question is to the BiH Council of Ministers. It reads: "Has the Council of Ministers authorised any of the Ministers for Membership in the Regional School's Management Board for Public Administration and who? Are representatives of BiH appointed to work in the operational structures of the Regional School for Public Administration, according to a ratified Treaty establishing a Regional School for Public Administration and by what criteria? Are the mechanisms of adequate reporting, representation and participation of BiH in this regional initiative established?" A brief explanation: The agreement on the establishment of the said school has been ratified so far by the parliaments of BiH, Albania, Montenegro and Macedonia. Ratification is under way in Croatia and Serbia and the process is expected to end by the end of June of this year. For school management, the signatories are expected to appoint members of the new Management Board as management ministers or director of European integration or human resources. The school is open to training civil servants from all over the region in the areas of European integration, public administration reform, strategic planning, budgeting and others. For BiH, the school is important in the context of regional co-operation and BiH's representation towards the region and the EU. Thank you. 20
ParlaMint-BA_2010-05-12-0.u34647	Thank you. The next is the distinguished representative Lazar Prodanović.
ParlaMint-BA_2010-05-12-0.u34648	Mr. Chairman, distinguished colleagues and fellow MPs, respected guests, my question has been addressed to one of the institutions that could give an answer to recent writings in the media about the presence of a number of fictitious companies who had a fictitious return to VAT in BiH. And I'm wondering if the investigative institutions, either at the Department of Direct Taxation, the SIPA or the D.A.'s office, have found out what the companies are about and what the amount of funds are on this basis, for what amount of funds is damaged by the Single Account of the Indirect Taxation Authority? In fact, abuses in terms of the fictitious return of VAT are not newspapers appearing in BiH, it is certainly present in other countries, but the essence is how to create a mechanism to prevent this kind of abuse of funds and major financial damages done to the BiH state. Thank you.
ParlaMint-BA_2010-05-12-0.u34649	Thank you. Next is Honorable Representative Mirko Okolić.
ParlaMint-BA_2010-05-12-0.u34650	Thank you, Mr. Chairman. Here, I will ask two questions to the BiH Council of Ministers, the BiH Ministry of Justice. 'Why has the BiH Department of Justice's Administrative Inspectorate been working for two years without the main administrative inspectorate and why has no competition been called to fill the chief administrative inspector's post within the proposed legal deadline?' And secondly, is it true that the Assistant Minister in the BiH Department of Justice Department performs at the same time three functions, i.e. the function of Assistant Minister for Administration, then the function of Chief Administrative Inspector, and the function of Inspector? If this is true, it is a violation of the principle of incompatibility and of conflict of interest in the given case, I ask the question: ‘What measures will be taken to remove these irregularities?’ In addition, I am delivering certain acts of the BiH Ministry of Justice to which I support the facts mentioned in this issue. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-BA_2010-05-12-0.u34651	Thank you. 21 The next is the distinguished representative of Vesna Šain.
ParlaMint-BA_2010-05-12-0.u34652	Thank you, Your Honor. My question is to the Council of Ministers: "When will the Council of Ministers draw up and deliver to the parliamentary procedure of the Proposal for a Law on Volunteering and the Proposal for a Law on the Protection of the Environment?" Thank you.
ParlaMint-BA_2010-05-12-0.u34653	Thank you. The next is Honorable Representative Martin Raguž.
ParlaMint-BA_2010-05-12-0.u34654	I refer my question to the Council of Ministers and concerns the position of this House and the Constitutional Legal Commission on the maintenance of the Public Discussion on the Proposal for a Law on Copyright and Related Rights and the Proposal for a Law on collective exercise of copyright and related rights when we asked the Council of Ministers to submit reports on the implementation of the applicable Copyright Act, the "Official Messenger" No. 7/2, 32/2 and 76/6, with an assessment of the situation in that area. We have received a report signed by the Institute of Intellectual Property whose content does not correspond at all to the conclusion this home has set. We have received some survey questions and answers from some electronic media, not an assessment of the situation and the necessary measures that need to be implemented in this very important area. How could I not find out from the accompanying report anything about the real state of play in the area of copyright, I repeat and supplement my question: 'How many in BiH, and especially in entities, implement and comply with the provisions of this law? What is the percentage of piracy by categories in BiH?" I ask the Council of Ministers to adopt and consider this report with a proposal for measures and to bring reviews and suggestions on how to fix the situation in this area and, I remind you, the situation is really bad, not to use any other word. Thank you.
ParlaMint-BA_2010-05-12-0.u34655	Thank you. The next is a respected representative of Azra Hadžiahmetović.
ParlaMint-BA_2010-05-12-0.u34656	Thank you, Chairman. Here, and I will begin by the beginning, before I wish you a successful term by the end of the term of office of this Parliamentary Assembly, also to thank my colleague Živković for his commitment to leading 22 House of Representatives in the BiH Parliamentary Assembly in the previous period and to wish him a lot of success in future life and work. Is that okay? Of course, with the wish that this mandate be passed to you by the end of the term of office of this Parliamentary Assembly with as little problems as possible and as little success as possible, both your work and our work together. The chairman, I rarely use the institution of parliamentary issues, but for the parliamentary question I was initiated by the answers to parliamentary questions which were raised by distinguished colleagues and colleagues during the previous period. And here, allow just one brief comment in one answer to one parliamentary question asked by counterpart Rifat Dolić, where he says in response that we have addressed the finance ministries of both entities with a request to suggest the answer. So termology is really beyond comment. The request, therefore, of the Council of Ministers to entities, or ministries, to suggest an answer, so when they get it, then perhaps the MP will get an answer to the question. However, my question, which I will ask, concerns the answers to the questions raised by counterparts Ljiljana Milašin and counterparts Adem Huskić, which relate to the obligations to implement the Stabilisation and Association Agreement and to make appropriate decisions in the resolution of the Ministry of Foreign Trade and Economic Relations, namely the abolition of administrative prohibitions on imports of second-hand cars into the BiH market. And, in response, how could it be read, in 90% of the answers to both of the questions that are completely identical and 10% different, or added in one answer to these two questions, we have, among other things, a potential problem that I want to warn about and why I initiate by the Council of Ministers and the answer: 'What will make it co-ordinate activities between the Ministry of Foreign Trade and Economic Relations, between the Ministry of Transport and the Communications of BiH, the Institute for Standardisation of BiH, which is expected to meet the obligations relating to homogolisation? ... So, what will it do to coordinate the activities of these institutions in order to respect the obligations of the agreement BiH has and the Stabilisation and Association Agreement with the EU?" Thank you.
ParlaMint-BA_2010-05-12-0.u34657	Thank you. The next is Deputy Chairman Milorad Živković.
ParlaMint-BA_2010-05-12-0.u34658	Thank you, Chairman. First, I want to thank all MPs, professional staff and all those who have been involved in Parliament's work in the past eight months for their co-operation, in particular to thank the enlarged College, especially the Kolegijum in the short term for helping and to wish President Niki Lozančić a successful work in the coming period. My parliamentary question is addressed to the Council of Ministers, i.e. the State Border Service and the Resolute Ministry, and it says: 'Is there any intention that the border crossing of Donja Gradina – Jasenovac will be changed to a road crossing for freight traffic at which a phytopathological review will be required?' 23 In the area of the Municipality of Kozarska Dubica there are two border crossings and both are categorized only for passenger traffic. The Donja Gradina – Jasenovac crossing, in which the international community invested more than 7 million KM, is fully designed and built for freight traffic, but is not known why it is not registered as a second category crossing. Precategorisation of the international border crossing mentioned would not require new funding, as infrastructure already exists. And, here, this parliamentary question can also be understood as an initiative to do so as soon as possible. I think it's in the interest of BiH as well as the local communities. Thank you.
ParlaMint-BA_2010-05-12-0.u34659	The next is Honorable Representative Halid Genjac.
ParlaMint-BA_2010-05-12-0.u34660	Thank you, Chairman. Dear colleagues and colleagues, distinguished guests, I have a question for the Central Election Commission. In recent days, therefore, information has appeared in the media that is talking about problems related to the tender for issuing ballots. The printing of ballots is part of an electoral process which is essential for the credibility of the electoral process and the slowdown or argumentative challenge to the credibility of that part of the process endangers the credibility of the entire electoral process. For these reasons, I call on the Central Election Commission to submit an answer to the question by the next session of the House of Representatives: 'What is the truth about the tender for the printing of ballots? How was the tender? Was there a problem? Is the tender in accordance with the law and with principles? And that, in the event of a need, he shall provide information to the House of Representatives about which the House of Representatives would lead the debate." Thank you.
ParlaMint-BA_2010-05-12-0.u34661	Thank you.
ParlaMint-BA_2010-05-12-0.u34662	And finally the chairman, Mr. Niko Lozančić. Here you go.
ParlaMint-BA_2010-05-12-0.u34663	Thank you. I thank you all for your congratulations and your good wishes. But here's the short cut, so I don't waste any time that I have on the parliamentary issue, I'm going to move on to asking a representative question. You've probably read, heard and seen the information that says that during the Italian judicial and investigative authorities' calculations with the mafia there was a discovery, among other things, and 24 permanent quantities of weapons, I'll say, and military equipment. What I find interesting and what I want to react to and ask for a reaction, quick and effective, is that the BiH institution is said to be of BiH origin. Not wanting to prejudge the accuracy or inaccuracy of this information, I ask the Foreign Ministry to inform the answers to the question in haste: 'Is it true that the weapons found in the BiH-origin action? If the information is such that an argument is sought for such a claim and if those who claim to be weapons from BiH and claim to have evidence, then they know where from BiH and how it went from BiH to the Republic of Italy. At the same time, I ask the Ministry of Security, SIPA, DGS to conduct an investigation and to determine that, if the BiH weapons were smuggled, they were smuggled into Italy and where it went to BiH. I am also asking for the BiH Prosecutor's Office to be involved at the same time and to be quick to this home, and to me personally as an agent asking the question, to provide an answer to all these questions." Thank you very much. We don't have any more applications to ask counseling questions, so I'm closing this agenda item. Moving to the 3rd point of the agenda: Ad. 3. The request of MP Jerko Ivanković Lijanović to consider the Bill on Amendments and Supplements to the Election Law of Bosnia and Herzegovina under a hasty procedure, in accordance with Article 127. Rules of Procedure Representative Jerko Ivanković Lijanović delivered the law to the parliamentary procedure in 22.4.2010, with a request to be considered by a hasty procedure. The European Integration Directorate delivered its opinion on 10. 5. 2010 Today we decide on this request. I'm opening a debate on this request. Dear Representative Jerko Ivanković Lijanović.
ParlaMint-BA_2010-05-12-0.u34665	Dear President, colleagues, fellow MPs, distinguished guests, since, in the meantime, since I have invested this bill, the Electoral Commission has declared election 3. 10., it would be very important to adopt this request today and to adopt this law after it to see what else we need to do to apply this law to the elections that are being held this year. Thank you.
ParlaMint-BA_2010-05-12-0.u34666	Thank you. Dear Ambassador Šefik Džaferović. Here you go. 25
ParlaMint-BA_2010-05-12-0.u34667	Mr. Chairman, colleagues and colleagues, therefore, this is a stalemate reheated thing that is being placed here in the BiH Parliament. I would ask our esteemed colleague Ivanković not to bother us with such unserious things. Three hundred million marks to be set aside for this law in order to hold elections every two years for so long in BiH, and today we need to discuss firing two thousand soldiers and we need to find a way to end this thing!? I mean, this country has a lot of, uh, a lot of more pressing things, a lot of more pressing problems. And, if there's any way -- I don't know if there is, I don't think there's a procedure -- this is best to get out of Parliament right now, I mean, because if it isn't this one, it's going to be shortened, and then it's going to be regular, so it's pulling out of Parliament here. But, unfortunately, there's no other procedure. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-BA_2010-05-12-0.u34668	Thank you. Replica, honourable Ambassador Jerko Lijanović. Here you go.
ParlaMint-BA_2010-05-12-0.u34669	I didn't want to talk about the essence of the law, because it's not the point on the agenda yet, is it? First it's this procedure request, but here I have to react. I mean, I highly appreciate my colleague Džaferović and his contribution to this Parliament by many things, especially when it comes to legal matters; and when it comes to economic issues, then I think it is inappropriate to treat the citizens of this country who should get a symbolic 100 marks because they went out and voted in these elections. And on the other hand, if we look at the external trade deficit, where we give citizens of other countries a far greater amount than that, where the deficit in billions of marks is, and we're not looking for an answer for a long time in this House, when we look at the tax policy in which we forgive taxes on various luxury goods, on various luxury services that we should tax on, I think it's much more appropriate to tax the luxury, to reduce the external trade deficit. And only if 4% of the external trade deficit would be granted to our citizens for the act of going to the elections, which is very important for us to encourage such a young democracy, because in over 30 countries in the world, the mandatory vote took place even 100 years ago, and we are not able to do so after 100 years. Thank you.
ParlaMint-BA_2010-05-12-0.u34670	Thank you. Here's a reply to the replica, honourable Member of the Parliament, Šefik Džaferović. Here you go.
ParlaMint-BA_2010-05-12-0.u34671	Dear colleague Ivanković, you know that I appreciate you, respect you, and I would ask you to really tell us whether you're kidding us or serious about this. I mean, I'd like... this sounds amazing to me, believe me. So is this some kind of joke or is it serious? I 26 really can't believe it. I respect you, I appreciate you, you're a successful businessman, well known businessman, well a serious man, so this sort of thing, amazing. I don't know, maybe there's something wrong with me, I don't know.
ParlaMint-BA_2010-05-12-0.u34672	No microphone turned on
ParlaMint-BA_2010-05-12-0.u34673	Dear Member Nermin Uzunović. Same replica, right?
ParlaMint-BA_2010-05-12-0.u34674	Yes, it is.
ParlaMint-BA_2010-05-12-0.u34675	Here you go.
ParlaMint-BA_2010-05-12-0.u34676	I would only ask with this replica if there is any practice in the world to pay for a date. I know there are sanctions, and we all know that, and now the esteemed promoter has pointed that out, and that's okay, but that there's someone paying, I didn't hear that. Obviously, we'll be the country in Giniz's book of record of all sorts of strange things if we take this seriously today. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-BA_2010-05-12-0.u34677	Given the number of debates, we took it seriously. Dear Ambassador Sadik Bahtić. Here you go.
ParlaMint-BA_2010-05-12-0.u34678	Thank you. Since a colleague (respecting Ivanković Lijanović as a respected businessman) says from an economic aspect, as chairman of the Finance Commission in the budget, I must say that this is a direct attack on the BiH economy and on the BiH state budget. I find it irresponsible, irresponsible, immoral, humiliating to us all MPs. I believe that colleague Jerko Ivanković (I received a list from Krajina, you got all the lists, you promised 100 marks of the next election) did not carry out his obligations. Either you're out of money or you're out of work, so now you want to transfer it to the state?- I'm sorry. I don't think anybody's crazy around here. Are you crazy or are we all crazy? That's how I see it. I really don't understand... Where our prosecutors are, counterpart Jukić has appointed the prosecutor's office to investigate this process. They got lists, I got hundreds of scams, they didn't get 100 marks. There's some out there in the village, says... here's three thousand marks, there's those voices, people are... 100 marks, that aga takes the money itself, they vote there, they don't get the money. There was nothing. They took pictures of things with their cell phone. And other things like that you want the BiH state to pay for you. Brother, raise your loan and keep paying! He's got credit, you've got banks, you've got good connections with strangers, don't distract us with... That's it, thank you. 27
ParlaMint-BA_2010-05-12-0.u34679	That was a number-test. Dear Ambassador Momčilo Novaković. Here you go.
ParlaMint-BA_2010-05-12-0.u34680	Thank you, Mr. Vice President. Dear colleagues, you see, I understood Mr. Lijanović's idea quite differently from my colleagues. I mean, I think this is about legalizing what's going on. So, what big parties do, Mr. Lijanović suggests we legalize. I think these choices cost us a lot more than these 100 marks. You see, we have a little later on one, judging by the views of colleagues, a more serious, much more serious law, the Law on the financing of political parties, the amendment and addition of the Law on the financing of political parties where we have proposed that legal persons can legally give political parties 15 average salaries unlike the previous eight. And that's no problem for us, no one. Watch out, it's 100 voters or 150 voters. So, in almost the same way we, not in almost the same way, but with almost the same goal we have two laws in the procedure, one of which is not at all a mockery, which will get support, and another... which we don't at least consider serious. I also think that it is not realistic to apply this law, that this law cannot be applied here, that much else I can say about it, but also the fact that in election campaigns there are much worse things going on than Mr. Lijanović suggested in his law. And even, I mean the party colleagues who have discussed here that in fact their parties are a forerunners, they're a forerunner in these things, and that maybe they could use this legalization. Thank you.
ParlaMint-BA_2010-05-12-0.u34681	Sadik Bahtić, replica.
ParlaMint-BA_2010-05-12-0.u34682	So I have to replicate. A Kolega, Novaković, says this is the legalisation of what major parties are doing. It's out of my mind. What counterpart Jerko Ivanković suggests and what he was saying about funding political parties, this law that we have here today, from 8 to 15, it's perfectly normal. Everywhere in the world, natural and legal persons can make donations. It's their right, it's limited. In America, anyone can pay, even all these parties have a computer list of who paid what. It's regulated everywhere by rules and laws. And what Jerko is proposing, that means what he's giving privately, he wants to give the state instead. It's a completely different, completely different thing.
ParlaMint-BA_2010-05-12-0.u34683	Mirko Okolić. 28
ParlaMint-BA_2010-05-12-0.u34684	Thank you, Mr. Chairman. Here, I didn't mean to discuss this bill proposed by Mr Lijanović, but given that MPs or Member of Parliament, a respected colleague from the SDP, I would suggest that they might agree on it in some future time, given that according to certain statements in the media, etc. candidate of the Party working to improve and SDP's main favorites for the Croatian presidency member. So if they find that deal, then maybe it'd be easier for us to support it. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-BA_2010-05-12-0.u34685	Replica, Selim Bešlagić.
ParlaMint-BA_2010-05-12-0.u34686	I would ask Mr. Okolić to leave propaganda for his party, not SDP. And the other thing, I think these are things where, if we're standing here with all the knowledge of who's in, who's against, I'm in favour of taking the procedure and... voting, so we'll see, we definitely take this law off the agenda, because if it stays to go to the regular procedure then we'll have it again next time. I think it's going to be a statement about both these candidates and all of this.
ParlaMint-BA_2010-05-12-0.u34687	Here, I can only remind one hundred times again that we are discussing a request for a procedure, but here. Bajazit Jašarević.
ParlaMint-BA_2010-05-12-0.u34688	Dear Mr. Chairman, ladies and gentlemen, I would like to say that it is very difficult to maintain dignity because of the content of this law, even...
ParlaMint-BA_2010-05-12-0.u34689	Please talk to me for a second. Please!
ParlaMint-BA_2010-05-12-0.u34690	It's... it's just a procedure. I would just like to repeat... that this is another abuse of the Rules of Procedure of this Parliament that allows extremely urgent matters to be adopted and obviously simple things. There's no other case here. Therefore, it is not urgent that such an urgent decision should be made, especially it is not easy to decide without considering a lot of responsible people and institutions in this country. But when it was about the agenda, it didn't make sense to fight against this content of the law, and I think we all agreed to take out some of our fences against this kind of custom, and we agreed to eliminate this... what we're trying to do today. 29 So I think we're all agreeing to an emergency procedure just so we can immediately dismiss it and continue our other affairs. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-BA_2010-05-12-0.u34691	Thank you. Jerko Ivanković, replica.
ParlaMint-BA_2010-05-12-0.u34692	Here, I want to explain a little to my colleagues and colleagues who spoke before me. So here I have
ParlaMint-BA_2010-05-12-0.u34693	Is it a replica or is it an explanation?
ParlaMint-BA_2010-05-12-0.u34694	(Replica), to replicate what they said, because I respect their opinions and I find them very legitimate to be carried out in this home. We've got two things here. It is one mandatory vote, which I think is very important that we introduce in our country, because we have a young democracy, and that we do it by emergency procedure, so that we already have it in the 10th month of the election. That our going out to our citizens' elections in such a difficult situation is not 50% or 50 percent, but 80-90%, as is the case in some European countries that have a mandatory vote. The mandatory vote was introduced by Belgium in 1893, Argentina in 1914, Luxembourg 1919, Australia in 1924. So very serious democratic countries have a mandatory vote and obviously it makes sense. The second part is whether we punish people or how we regulate law enforcement. I'm always a proponent of motivational measures, not repressive ones, and I don't think it would be good if in such a difficult economic situation, for those who still don't vote, actually don't go to the polls, that we're now charging them 100 or more fines, as is the fact in these countries. I felt that much greater effects would bring all those who went to the elections to have the right to 100 marks, and those who did not come out to be punished and that the right could not take advantage of it. And the funds are quite symbolic. So we cut 4% of the foreign trade deficit and pay our citizens to go to the polls. Imagine, we are ready and without any controversy giving 6 billion to the citizens of some other countries, and we are unable to pay our citizens that daily, which costs us only 4% of that deficit. Thank you.
ParlaMint-BA_2010-05-12-0.u34695	I can't miss the chance not to realize that you've abused the replica and discussed the content of the law, not the arguments for emergency procedure. But here, since I have no more reports, I am concluding a debate on item 3, so on the request of MP Jerko Ivanković Lijanović to discuss the draft law on amendments and additions to BiH's election law by a hasty procedure. 30 We move on to point four: Ad. 4. Request of the Joint Commission for Human Rights, Rights of the Child, Youth, Immigration, Refugees, Asylum and Ethics to Consider Amendments and Supplements to the Code of Conduct for Representatives and Envoys in the Parliamentary Assembly of BiH by an urgent procedure, in accordance with Article 127. Rules of Procedure The Joint Commission delivered us seven. 5. this proposal, with the request to be considered by emergency procedure. Today we decide on this request. Here, I see that the motion has ahead of this committee, the president of this commission has a need for an explanation, but I'd like to ask you an argument for an emergency procedure.
ParlaMint-BA_2010-05-12-0.u34697	Thank you, Mr. Chairman. I'll be brief. I'm going straight to the argument to adopt an emergency procedure. The reasons are next. When drawing up the Rules for the Implementation of the Code of Conduct of MPs and delegates in the Parliamentary Assembly of BiH, and on the basis of the opinion of the Joint Committee on Administrative Affairs, which is responsible for giving consent to the Regulation, this Regulation as an implementing act of the Code is based on Article 23. The Code which raises many questions about fairness, equality of parties in the process, majority decision-making, right to appeal, impartial body etc. The reasons for the amendments to the Code of Conduct of MPs and delegates in the Parliamentary Assembly of BiH are contained in the fact that our legislation as well as international recognition standards for all proceedings involving the two parties, regardless of the type of proceedings, must ensure fair trial, equality of parties in the process, majority decision-making, right to appeal, etc. The merger of the role of the applicant on the implementation of the provisions of the Code in the first-degree procedure, which in this case is the College of both homes, with the role of the bodies deciding in the second-degree procedure, which is the Joint College, does not provide for the above-mentioned standards. These two roles are incompatible and are contrary to all international standards of any procedure conducted before any body. The rules of procedure of the home have also been established that the status issues of MPs and delegates, as well as all joint acts to pay and material compensation, have been given to the relevant Joint Commission on Administrative Affairs and that these decisions are final in the administrative procedure. The Joint Committee on Administrative Affairs has been proposed in this respect, the amendments listed as a non-legislative body in the second-degree procedure. Given that these amendments are not so complex, they are required to be adopted by an urgent procedure, and after the adoption of the same Joint Committee on Human Rights, following adoption on this Commission, is referred to by the Implementing Regulation of the Code on Consent to the Joint Commission on Administrative Affairs. Thank you. 31
ParlaMint-BA_2010-05-12-0.u34698	Here, you heard the president of this committee. I'm opening a debate. I don't have any charges to argue with. I'm closing the debate on point 4. We're going to point five, Ad. 5. Proposal for a Law on Copyright and Related Rights – Proposer: Council of Ministers of BiH (second reading) It's about the law in the second reading. The law was passed in the first reading at the 71st session. You also received a report on the implementation of the Law on Copyright and Related Rights in BiH, which was delivered by the Institute of Intellectual Property. At the plenary stage, therefore at this stage, MP Jerko Ivanković defends four amendments again. I'm opening a debate on the draft law in the second reading. Here, I have the President-in-Office of the Constitutional Commission, Mr. Šefik Džaferović.
ParlaMint-BA_2010-05-12-0.u34700	Mr. Chairman, colleagues and colleagues! These are two laws, so we can go right now if you don't have one, I'll talk about both, so I won't get back to you about the next item of the agenda. It is, therefore, that we today have in BiH a law on copyright. This law is now innovated or novoed and two laws are proposed, the Law on Copyright and Related Rights and the Law on collective exercise of copyright and related rights, because it is concluded in law enforcement that this collective copyright protection should be paid special attention. We had a public debate on the recommendation of our own and this home and, you know, these two laws that have, I don't know, 220-230 members were 150, 160 amendments. So, a very big interest has been shown in the public debate and through amendments. And it's like this. The existing solutions of the people concerned by these laws or this law are not satisfied. They're not particularly pleased with the aspect of law enforcement. Because they say that in many respects this law is a dead letter on paper and that it is not in life. The laws offered represent a step forward or one step in improving existing matter and do not represent what BiH ultimately needs. That is why you have received this report with laws on the application of this law so far. I propose that Parliament adopt both of these laws today, but at the same time as the College, that I do not write the conclusion now, I suggest that you, as a College, adopt the conclusion, I think it is stronger and stronger, that for the purpose of adopting these laws, the Institute of Intellectual 32 Property is committed and all those working on implementing these laws to periodically address this Parliament, is this at least once a year, with realisation and problems in the application of these laws. Not to be like so far, the laws have been passed, the law passed in 2002-2003 and then eight years, seven-eight years, there's not a word in the state parliament about what's going on with that matter. And then the problem opens up and the law of... becomes 160 amendments and you can barely overcome that problem at this commission stage. As you have seen, the Constitutional Commission has adopted several amendments to both law and law. ... Some colleagues have renewed the amendments, we will vote on them today, whether or not, but regardless of the outcome of the vote on amendments, I suggest that these laws be adopted as one step forward in relation to the current situation. And, to you, the College, together, suggest a conclusion that the Institute is in charge of reporting to us annually on the application of these laws so that we can react faster, not wait seven or eight years, and then we have the problem that we had when we passed these laws. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-BA_2010-05-12-0.u34701	I thank you, Mr. Džaferović. Here, if you'll excuse me, Mr. Džaferović, in his discussion, made some suggestions, so to speak. When it comes to the debate on this point and the next point, Dom did not plead to conduct a single debate, but here we can follow the example of Mr Džaferović. It's up to you. So if you discuss this law, discuss this and not point 5, so we can use it rationally. As regards these law enforcement initiatives, it is understood that the law must be implemented. But here, if it's considered necessary to further encourage people to enforce the law, we don't mind.
ParlaMint-BA_2010-05-12-0.u34702	No more? There is. Dear representative Nermina Zaimović-Uzunović-Uzunovic.
ParlaMint-BA_2010-05-12-0.u34703	I would, given that even after my first reading, have made amendments and have now renewed these amendments on request... _________(?) [[no microphone turned on]] We're considering, I think, both points, right, five and six, that's how I figured out the chairman. 33
ParlaMint-BA_2010-05-12-0.u34705	I am informed from my colleagues in the College that the debate has already started on both points of the agenda, and if we can, I apologize to you, that if there are no different thoughts, we should say that we have chosen to discuss both points, since they are very related matter. There's no other way of thinking. Thank you. So it's about one point and the other point of the agenda.
ParlaMint-BA_2010-05-12-0.u34706	So, as you said, the matter covered by these two laws and proposed to us in fact by the Institute of Intellectual Property, and previously adopted several very high-quality laws that lead us to the EU, this is one of the laws that we must make safe and bring them into line with all those standards which European, or which European-specific conventions we have ratified mean. Namely, after the date and after the public debate, a lot of dissatisfaction with this law appeared and they initiated... through MPs in this assembly, including myself, to consider it. For this reason there were also a large number of amendments to these two laws, which means we haven't adopted them since the same institute... without any objections as it was with previous laws. Namely, the association, i.e. users of copyright and related rights that should actually pay what is normal, wants the situation to be clean and clear, which is not achieved by this law. I think it's one of the key things. So, they have also set up through the amendments that I have proposed, unsatisfactory by the provisions of this law, said it has not been called up, nor has it been provided for in the Bill's proposal and for a public call with deadlines for application, clear conditions under which interested entities and associations would report that they are doing the affairs of a collective organisation. In fact, we have a very strange situation that the Institute has issued four permits, and only one for certain areas, and as nowhere in the world we have private companies representing rights. In the world, it is common, especially in Europe where we are so eager to enter, they have, mostly, associations, associations of authors or associations of performers, etc., writers' associations. So we know there's nothing wrong with the situation. I specifically know that when I write it, I see it on the street before they deliver it to me. So everyone breaks copyright. Next, the question of licensing for a collective organisation. It's completely undefined, the rest is open, as it was in the previous law. So, as I said, no private firms, no more MPs, we have, today, in most countries of the world, certainly in all the countries in the environment in the making of laws and other acts that concern this area, others should participate, complain that these amendments... which they have sent and they have not actually participated in the making of the law. People who are objectively, when asked questions, were involved in a conflict of interest when it comes to this. Furthermore, experts from abroad have worked, although in their countries they are completely different from those provisions. It is necessary to... collective organisations in the Supervisory Board that controls the work of these and include all those who... pay taxes to the collective organisation so that she can transfer it to the authors she represents. And so, the work of collective organizations, as shown in this large report, up to 34 has never been controlled. So these are the fact centers of power that collect around the hacks, raise money and give as much to the authors as they want. So it was not well solved and through these amendments tried very mildly, very mildly to point to these problems and to take a step forward. Unfortunately, we failed to achieve this on the Constitutional Commission. I tried to defend some of these things. The truth that there is little movement, but there are only shifts in that segment that must be due to compliance with the provisions imposed by the European Partnership, but there is nothing left, remains Bosnian. If we wait for the next two or three years again, I'm afraid the chaotic state, as we see from this report, will continue to be present in this area. Thank you very much, I don't want any more.
ParlaMint-BA_2010-05-12-0.u34707	Thank you. The next is respected, the second vice president, Dr. Milorad Živković.
ParlaMint-BA_2010-05-12-0.u34708	Thank you. A very complex topic and it has also caused this much public attention and public debate that we have made and after the amendments have been tabled and after the text of this law itself has been amended by the legislator. Perhaps, if we were to add it together, we would be in a position to have a new law, not to change and supplement these laws, but that's all it says about this complexity and this matter, which is both new and obviously new in BiH, which has not yet lived up to its implementation or, let me say, the legislative regulation. And therefore, I should say, very carefully approach the amendments and additions of these laws, if necessary, also make new public debates. The SNSD Club gave amendments concerning inspection supervision and it was about the Proposal for a Law on Copyright and Related Rights. Most of these amendments are accepted and I think this matter has been further arranged. There is a problem in the Proposal for a Law on collective exercise of copyright and related rights where we have a long-standing problem in BiH that associations and foundations under the Law on Associations and Foundations do not reflect both the essence and essence of neither the Bosnian Herzegovic order nor what people in BiH, through these organisations, want to show. Therefore, an amendment has also been made concerning the Proposal for a Law on collective exercise of copyright and related rights, in which Article 8 adds a position (3). This ensures that no one in BiH can have a monopoly on the exercise of these collective rights. This amendment does not discuss the needs of entities, this amendment speaks of the need for collective implementation of all copyrighted in BiH. And, therefore, we will insist on this amendment to protect people who do this job and prevent a single organisation from having a monopoly in BiH. There is also likely to be a need for amendments to the Law on Associations and Foundations to ensure that three people living near the Sarajevo Justice Ministry are not represented as an association of the whole of BiH, because that is not true and does not answer the truth. I think this amendment is crucial to our commitment and we will insist on it, and I have tried to explain the reasons. 35
ParlaMint-BA_2010-05-12-0.u34709	Thank you. Next is Honorable Representative Slavko Jovičić.
ParlaMint-BA_2010-05-12-0.u34710	Thank you very much, Mr. Chairman. Well, here's what I'm asking is a key question, before we make a statement today, whether we're passing a law that will benefit someone or we're going to pass a law that makes it even worse for that law or for those laws that were passed in 2002-2003, which we're saying today is no good. I don't know, I didn't follow, but I can look at it like you did if a number of amendments came to one law in this term and whether the Constitutional Commission rejected them more, so today they defend themselves in the plenary phase and in the old inert, I would say, in public when it was a public debate, I didn't see much of a response, I followed it quite a bit. But when they know that this is the point of the agenda, when a conclusion is made, then it's two days, (?) No microphone turned on I've been to other places, I don't have to participate in every single one of them, but here I am making a contribution, so it's just amazing, two days, everyone who's interested in this law on their feet. Everyone knows whose amendments are not accepted. Everyone knows what the Constitutional Commission refused. Of course I do, because our professional service has informed me, the fax has arrived, accepted this and that. And what are we going to do about the plea today? Here, Mr. Živković said that one amendment, which the Constitutional Commission did not accept. So we're not blackmailing anyone, and we're saying if that amendment doesn't work out, this is down! Or should we say, what the esteemed colleague Zaimović was saying, which is what the interested ones who will most be in the position to apply this law are looking for, or are already hanging them. So I ask the question, and in the very preparation of the bill, I never get the information, says, suggested the Council of Ministers, okay. I suggested our agency, okay. Is that all that came in there that someone suggested what they wanted or someone lobbyed with them just like they lobbyed with me, I say. Two days I can't live, I've turned off the phone from all kinds of interested people, who remember today that this is on the agenda. And he's just saying, we're following, don't give it up, support little Professor Zaimović, support this. I will not support anyone, I have my own position and I want to support what is normal in the interests of this country, that we benefit from the law, if we pass the law (?) No microphone turned on
ParlaMint-BA_2010-05-12-0.u34713	Thank you. I think you must have mispressed the replica button.
ParlaMint-BA_2010-05-12-0.u34714	No microphone turned on
ParlaMint-BA_2010-05-12-0.u34715	And it's not, so you're on purpose. Dear Representative Šefik Džaferović, replica.
ParlaMint-BA_2010-05-12-0.u34716	I couldn't discuss it again now because I had a discussion. So, Mr. Jovičić, these laws have nothing to do with wild boars, they have to do with a very complex legal issue. Copyright is closely tied to property rights, so with real law, bond law, which is a very, very complex and very complicated 37 matter and people who, as experts, are sometimes hard to cope with. That's one thing, then. The other thing, you weren't at the public hearing, I mean, you weren't really, if you were me, you'd say, I know everyone who was at the public hearing, you weren't.
ParlaMint-BA_2010-05-12-0.u34717	No microphone turned on
ParlaMint-BA_2010-05-12-0.u34718	You don't have to, I respect, I mean, you're mostly here in Parliament, but here you haven't been to a public debate, there's been a big public debate, there's been a lot of people, there's been a lot of discussions. And a lot of dissatisfaction was expressed in that public debate by the people concerned by these laws. And I said – as you will vote, it is of course your right, I will not, nor can I influence it, you will decide for yourself – I just want to tell you that this is one step forward from the existing one, that is also said by the people to whom this applies. And I think we've left this area, it's a key problem here, this is an abandoned area, we haven't dealt with seven or eight years of it. So that's why I'm saying, let's adopt today, if we don't adopt well, my Bog, we have laws, is that every year we're dealing with this issue to make some contribution to finally getting what we want in BiH. That's it, thank you.
ParlaMint-BA_2010-05-12-0.u34719	Thank you. Replica, distinguished representative Slavko Jovičić.
ParlaMint-BA_2010-05-12-0.u34720	Thank you very much, Mr. Chairman. My colleague Džaferović, I understand you, we need these, I didn't say they shouldn't, but much simpler in another form... of which they will benefit. You just said yourself, which obliges me to be against, you said yourself, there was a huge dissatisfaction at the public hearing. So as soon as there's a huge dissatisfaction (I haven't been here, I can't really attend and arrive everywhere), as soon as it's been like that, and you've confirmed, the atmosphere in the public debate, it obliges me to define myself in this way that I was talking about. My commitment doesn't oblige you and any colleague, I'm talking about the personal attitude and the people who call me, I'm saying, I'm not influencing, so I can't put pressure on you for what you press. But you said, I am an estranged half-artist and precisely because I am representing these to have,
ParlaMint-BA_2010-05-12-0.u34721	No microphone 38 turned on
ParlaMint-BA_2010-05-12-0.u34722	Of course, because if I lose my job as an esthetical activity, so I don't get hung up by this freakish law and be bound by it. I want it to be a normal law and I always advocate that the state and those who are interested, whom it binds, in whose name we make the law benefit. I think the least of their benefits here, and I repeat, your sentence has further defined me to be against when you said in a public debate there was a huge dissatisfaction. Corrected symbolically so that today it would be symbolically represented here that this would be very important laws, so we succeeded in seven years, someone else was waiting, today to bring them in. If we've waited so long to wait a little longer, but we have normal laws. Thank you.
ParlaMint-BA_2010-05-12-0.u34723	Thank you. Replica, the esteemed representative Lazar Prodanović.
ParlaMint-BA_2010-05-12-0.u34724	Well, I'm sorry, I don't want to, but I'm really surprised that Slavuj, the honourable MP, has such a need to humiliate us. I'm really shocked with that. I must say, the Constitutional Commission has invested enormous energy in bringing the amendments into line. That Mrs. Vignjević is here, I don't know if she's there, and the Council of Ministers has made a statement about everything and one amendment, and no law has given me as much pain as this one. I don't want to now, so it's BiH's commitment to the European path and don't be offended, I'm sure you haven't read a single letter out of this law, not a single letter. Well, I mean, it's such a problem that I don't have a need, we're losing energy in this. I don't report for any law that's not in the jurisdiction of a commission whose member I'm not, or unless there's a need. But it's unnecessary to juggle and waste time on something that really has nothing to do with it. And really, here the chairman was, canceling one meeting, making expert meetings, I don't know what we were doing anymore, and now every time we repeat a story about very important laws. I don't want to say... how we're going to plead with him, but it's unnecessary to have this kind of discussion. Unnecessarily, because about this public in any way that listening will not benefit anyone. Let's do something that's useful. I'm sorry, but I really have to say it. I beg you, it is unnecessary to discuss this if the chairman, the vice-president, came out and said the position, is the position which the club stands for. But we don't have to humiliate ourselves, there's been a huge deal of harmonisation done here, and right now I have to say about any amendment that almost didn't have any different opinions on which the Council of Ministers was. They may have held back or we were against something that was essential, but of the six members of the Constitutional Commission, at least four and five voted "yes". In 90% of the cases, all present members of the Constitutional Legal Commission voted on a harmonised law. I'm sorry.
ParlaMint-BA_2010-05-12-0.u34725	I thank the honourable representative. Replica, distinguished representative Slavko Jovičić. 39
ParlaMint-BA_2010-05-12-0.u34726	Thank you very much, Chairman. Well, this shows me what democracy is, when they have a debate and controversy from the same club, I'll say. And that's good, I just supported what Mr. Živković said he would insist on this amendment. But where did you feel that I was humiliating anyone? I have a right to my opinion, I have a name and a last name here, I have a mandate from the Election Commission, and no one can deny me the right to speak and sew up my labels to humiliate anyone. Where have you heard the word of humiliation for the entire term of office on my behalf of anyone, any individual in this country, not an MP or a colleague? Did you hear the humiliation? You won't hear from me or the media where I do all the time. If I don't have the right to my own opinion, if I'm going to think of Mr. Prodanović's head, then there's no problem, then my mandate is prescribed to him and you give him only extra time to vote for himself, and he's a little over this bench and he's voting for me, if that's possible both physically and technically and according to the Central Election Commission rules. I'm telling you what people do and what they call me, maybe Mr. Prodanović hasn't been called. I've had ten people waiting for me to come into Parliament and say this doesn't suit anyone. I've expressed my opinion, whether I've influenced someone else's decision, I'm talking about my opinion, I have the right as an MP, not as a man here a puppet who's gonna get a chip in his head and think with someone else's head. I've never done it, I won't do it. It's completely clear, transparent and accessible to everyone, and to the media and to you here. I have the utmost respect for every man who sits, not in this room, but moving down the street, not here to humiliate someone: I humiliated the Constitutional Commission for saying that! And watch this, I haven't read a single sentence of this. Well, I'd like someone to read more material, and I don't know, and I'm really not going to compete, because I'm not in anybody's bedroom, or in the study where he does it, so I'm following how anyone reads. But I certainly don't come here with a paper bag from two years ago that I didn't open it. I read it and I'm interested in doing it that way. But I come up with an attitude, with the interest that these laws apply to someone, that's the intensity I'm talking about. I didn't say it had to be, how, where do I get to say it has to be like I say it is. That's not true. I'm just saying. If someone forbids me and tells me my opinion, then I really don't need a parliamentary mandate, or a code, or anything, please, gentlemen, I'm a member of Parliament, and I'm not going to leave Parliament because of this replica right now and say, "I'm angry." I have no right to be angry with anyone. Thank you very much. I've just expressed my position and will always do so as I represent someone who gave me the mandate to come here, not for me to be an MP.
ParlaMint-BA_2010-05-12-0.u34727	Thank you. 10 minutes break at the request of the SNSD Club. 40 [[PAUZA]] Please take your seats, keep working. The reasons for the request for a break will be given by the second vice-president, Dr Milorad Živković.
ParlaMint-BA_2010-05-12-0.u34729	Thank you. A break is required to make consultations within the club. And here, allow me just one minute to once again try to explain this amendment that has been proposed here and that does not really concern any professional work under this law. It is about implementing this law and trying to prevent a monopoly and that a company here in BiH that has worked so far continues to work. When we passed these laws, we chose not to form an agency as it was done in Serbia, as it was done in Croatia, we chose to assign this association to be the ones who would exercise those collective rights, and then we gave the monopoly to one association, or one agency that represents the association to do so. With this amendment, we are trying to resolve what is not working properly in BiH, and this is an association under the Law on Associations and Foundations until we remember or decide to build an agency in BiH that could exercise those rights in the entire BiH territory.
ParlaMint-BA_2010-05-12-0.u34730	I thank my colleague Živković. There are no more reports for debates or replicas. I am concluding a debate on item 5 of the agenda. And as we agreed to conduct a united debate and a 6th point: Ad. Six. Proposal for a Law on collective exercise of copyright and related rights – Proposer: Council of Ministers of BiH (second reading) I am also concluding the debate on point 6. Moving to item 7 of the agenda: Ad. Seven. Proposal for a law on the application of the results of deoxyribonucleic acid analysis in court proceedings – Proposer: Council of Ministers of BiH (second reading)
ParlaMint-BA_2010-05-12-0.u34733	Thank you, Chairman. Since it is a rather specific law, therefore something that requires high expertise in the application of the law, which contains certain ethical dilemmas that have not yet been resolved in the most developed countries, it is quite understandable that this law has brought great attention to both the public and the MPs, and as a good attempt by the Ministry, it has also earned a public debate which has been held with the participation of a large number of participants. However, the participants of the public debate, of course, also had maximum demands and demands which perhaps this company is not ready to submit at the moment. And after that... with different views, with a large number of amendments to that law, the Constitutional Commission was considering this law and we made one smaller group, which I was in, so together with this ministry and certain interested representatives, we agreed on these amendments. We have agreed on a significant number of amendments, it would be said that this is about to be brought into line, and these adjustments were mostly in the direction that certain technical amendments of the law were corrected, that certain definitions of professional nature were improved, specified, and that was mainly going in that direction. Then, from what has been adopted significantly from these amendments, I would also single out that DNA samples have been added to the collection of isolates, i.e. a collection of isolated DNA from which the result of the analysis was obtained, as stated in Amendment VII. Then it's in Amendment IX. the availability of DNA samples made to researchers for scientific purposes after removal of samples in order to develop a population statistics database, perfecting procedures related to the identification process, etc. The big debate was conducted over a group of amendments that were asked whether or not to be asked whether or not DNA profiles and samples should be destroyed, those for whom samples are unknown, and those for whom they do not know who they originate, or for missing persons. The practice in the world is different, mostly, in short, just to say, that there is a practice of having reason to permanently keep samples of those who are convicted, for example,... which among the minor perpetrators of the crime statistics shows that 80% of them return to committing the crime and, then, if they have samples preserved, then facilitate detection etc. But it also carries with it ethical dilemmas: until when, abuse, the possibility of abuse of these patterns etc. And we have chosen to extend these deadlines, so for samples that are unknown to who they come from, instead of 15 years to be kept for 25 years. Then, for convicted persons instead of 30 years to be guarded for 40 years, and for the missing instead of 15 years to be kept for 25 years. For our occasions, we have estimated that this is quite fine and enough, because in the meantime, technology and this area of complete application of DNA analysis will, to a considerable extent, change technologically and that these provisions will be quite relativised. What is even more important is that in Article 33, we added and amended the provision regarding the subsequent entry of data into the DNA register of convicted persons. Namely, there was always a dilemma about whether all the convicted were later taking samples, all those who were convicted. Then a question of 42 of our criminal legislation was raised that did not regulate that obligation, yet, and it cannot be contrary to the provisions of the Criminal Law in this law to impose an obligation to take mandatory DNA samples from convicted persons later if they are not already taken. And I think that we have found a good compromise that, in accordance with the conditions that will be prescribed by criminal law in BiH, the Agency will enter into the register DNA of convicted persons a profile of persons who are legally convicted and whose profile is not placed in the database. Therefore, in accordance with the conditions which will be prescribed by criminal law, this implies the need for criminal law to resolve the issue. A large number of amendments were headed towards the introduction of an advisory body at the Agency for Forensic Research and Arts. We thought that since forensics is multidisciplinary and that forensics is not only a DNA study but also chemistry, and ballistics, and toxicology, and dactyloscopy, and biology, and biological studies, specialist training, etc. that the advisory body should then be formed for each group if it is formed for DNA analysis. So we were determined that perhaps in forensics in some future, an advisory body, but which would be multidisciplinary and that would cover all these areas of forensic art. That's about what I've agreed to here, as a member of the Constitutional Commission and this group, I'm doing a brief review. However, I have submitted two more amendments for the reasons that the laws on police bodies adopted by us are rather scarce laws. They were introduced in one environment of police reform as a condition for the signing of the Stabilisation and Association Agreement and they were brought into one ambience which required both speed and so did the Agency for Forensics and Arts at the Ministry other agencies to be set up, which is good, which has a director, deputies, but in law it's quite a bit settled around this agency, it's going to take a lot more work, it's going to take humane assumptions, it's going to need and help the director, it's going to need and develop that agency, and it's going to need material resources. I think this should be considered when adopting this law which... is one of the main activities of this agency. So, among other things, I have proposed this amendment in Article 3(1)(10) where it is said about adoption, about the accreditations to be given by this Agency for Forensics. She's supposed to be giving all the forensic labs credentials now. I think it should be given not only by this agency, but by the consent of the Council of Ministers. For the very reason why it is a very demanding area, because the practice in the region is such that the production of these, i.e., giving these consent requires participation of both legal professions and professions in the field of DNA and I think it would be better to have this forensic laboratory, forensics, the Agency gives consent to accreditation, but to do so with the consent of the Council of Ministers. amandman II. The one I suggested was a bigger procedure. Namely, as I said, this Agency of Forensics is in place, it has great needs for both personnel and equipment and space, and it's going and it's going to go through a process that I don't think will go so fast. At the same time, the Federal Police Administration has at its disposal the Department of Criminal Arts, has both the building and equipment and people and experts and experts and material-technical resources largely donated by the US Department of Justice and within the framework of the project... and therefore has a complete laboratory and database for the storage of DNA profiles, so-called. The codeis donated by the US Department of Justice has labs and experts who are certified and who are subject to permanent certifications and which are not on the market. Namely, it is a chamber which has specific experience and is not available on the available market. 43 The Government of the Federation and the Police Administration, bearing in mind that it is donated equipment and that there is this building and that there is equipment, is ready to make this equipment and the part of the staff needed to make available to the Agency until it is in full capacity and until this transitional period is made. And that's why I'm in amandman II.. proposed that until the establishment of this agency, until the actual establishment of this agency the use of DNA in forensics, storage of samples etc. All of this to be trusted by the police department. I think it's a purely rational approach, I think it would be a more useful approach for this area. And finally, amandman III.. We have also prescribed in the law that at the Agency of Forensics, the Director will, within a certain time limit, prescribe the rules,
ParlaMint-BA_2010-05-12-0.u34734	Time!
ParlaMint-BA_2010-05-12-0.u34735	...which are necessary to handle this material and bring it. In... The law on criminal proceedings is prescribed that these rules are passed by the minister of justice, not by the director of this agency, but by the minister of justice. I have proposed in this amendment that these rules to be listed, I think, be adopted, proposed by the Director but adopted with the agreement of the Council of Ministers. Thank you.
ParlaMint-BA_2010-05-12-0.u34736	Thank you. Next is Honorable Representative Momčilo Novaković.
ParlaMint-BA_2010-05-12-0.u34737	Thank you, Mr. Chairman. Given that I had one significant number of amendments in the amendment phase, some of which received support, and some of them did not, I must say that I decided not to repeat these amendments, given that the way in which this commission was first defined and, secondly, the views and the proposing itself. But I think it stays, really remains a problem, so in the next period, and that's why I'm only going to elaborate them here for a little while. In particular, when it comes to Article 28, which speaks of removing DNA profiles of missing persons, where the DNA profile is scheduled to be removed at the end of 15 years from the date on which the DNA sample is taken. I have to say that we are now witnessing that we have, (even in the media lately very often some people have talked about it) DNA profiles already ten and more years old, without having been identified and that in about four to five years they will be practically removed from the database, which will in some way prevent the identification of these faces. I think that's the problem, that's not a good solution. I suggested in the procedure that there was no time limit to keeping in the database DNA samples of missing persons, because, in a way, this would be, let's say, and the insult of the family would disappear, etc. The very fact that this is going to happen in the next period. It will also remain a problem for me, Article 11 although I was convinced that there are very different intensities in the EU. It's about taking samples of convicted persons where 44 are provided here based solely on the court's decision, so that's possible. We were persuaded by the public debate of people who are dealing with this and said that more than 80% of the crimes committed by 20% of convicted persons, arguing that DNA samples should be taken from convicted persons in order to in some way simplify the detection of these defendants later on of these crimes. Unfortunately, the ministry had no understanding of this proposal either. I thought of him back then, so I just want to make this point, that he will not get this support in Parliament either, and that is why I have not repeated it in particular. And what I want to comment on is one of the amendments of my colleague Halid Genjac. Namely, it is about the amandman I, which suggests that Article 3 after the position (3) adds attitudes (4) and (5) which say that until the actual establishment of the Agency's work, the application of DNA in forensics, storage of DNA samples, and storage of profiles in the database are entrusted to the Federation Police Administration – the Department of Criminal Arts. I was again convinced by people in the public debate that the BiH Federation Police Administration has a technique... that does not belong to them but to the state of BiH. In fact, the solution to the problem is not to store the data further there, but to return the technique that is not theirs and that this agency can then do its job. So, if this technique comes back immediately, if, of course, this agency is filled with professional people, and it is not disputed to be able to get out of this part, this job can be done very quickly and this agency can be able to do this part of the job very quickly. So it's not the solution for this job to be transferred there, it's the solution for people to return a technique that isn't theirs and to work for an institution that's legally meant to do the job. I don't know if, in any way, it's possible now to force the Federation Police Department to return funds that aren't theirs. I can't do it, I don't know, so I don't know if it makes any sense to Parliament's conclusion on the subject because I have no idea if there's been a book later or not, bookkeeping records as it stands, but in that sense I would still suggest one conclusion and deliver it in writing. It means that it requires the BiH Federation Police Administration to return all the technical means... used, and the result of the BiH donation, to the agency. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-BA_2010-05-12-0.u34738	Replica, the first deputy president of Beriz Belkić.
ParlaMint-BA_2010-05-12-0.u34739	Here, very briefly, so what would the people say is faster sables than horses. Let's go back to the law and the implementation, the establishment of this agency, and what Mr. Genjac is saying and what you're saying, how am I supposed to know who's right now, who's wrong, who's donated, who's not donated to? And please refrain from conclusions, we have amendments, we'll make a statement about them, let's get to the law. Mr. Lozančić, chairman.
ParlaMint-BA_2010-05-12-0.u34740	Thank you. 45 I have to say here's a couple... just a note. It means that it is indeed a very important law, a new law, the regulation of a completely new area in BiH, which we have seen mostly so far in certain action films that we have seen from the West, etc. So, it's about... regardless of those who are very integrated in this area and they are fortunately those in BiH, and I want to thank them at this time for participating in making as many quality solutions as possible of this law. Many of them are not in BiH institutions, are not employees of the institutions or the Council of Ministers, or the Parliamentary Assembly, but have shown willingness and desire to help reach... the best possible solutions in defining this area. In consultation with one of them, here, and the result of these consultations are the renewal of these amendments, so these two amendments. It's about the establishment of this advisory body precisely because we can't compare DNA profiles, DNA samples and DNA records to dactyloscopic collections because dactyloscopic collections have been here for the past 100 or 200 years. So there's already established practice, fixed standards, etc. So it's not the same thing. So this is still something new, and I don't think it could bother the Forensics Agency to have one advisory body of people experts, people of goodwill, who want to help make this law work in that best possible light and maximum capacity. The second amendment concerns only the supplement, so to speak, the DNA registries section. We have defined and through the amendments we have shared the particular DNA of suspects and DNA of convicted persons, but we have not defined which convicted persons. There has already been a debate on whether or not it can be discussed, here is one MP who said that he can't until the provisions of the Criminal Procedure Act are changed, the other said that it can, and in this amendment that I have made, it is only on the basis of the court's orders, and it is defined for which convicted persons can do so, so as to specify which convicted persons DNA profiles can be taken from and from which convicted persons will be made a DNA register of convicted persons. I invite you to accept these two amendments, but if you don't accept it, I think this is a very important, very good law, and I will support the bill. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-BA_2010-05-12-0.u34741	Lazar Prodanović.
ParlaMint-BA_2010-05-12-0.u34742	Mr. Vice-President, therefore, as well as the previous laws I spoke about, I must say that this law was very... spent on this task force in which my colleague Genjac and I, among other things, participated and we finally succeeded on the Constitutional Commission that a number of issues that were disputed were agreed and that was an optimum that we could do on the Constitutional Commission. Including everything, I support all the debates that want us to get to a better law. At this point, the optimum we've achieved was based on this. I think that there is, therefore, the possibility of amending and supplementing the law and that, at some stage of law enforcement, if there are any problems to improve this law in some way, it is certainly necessary to do so. In the current conditions, we don't have the functioning of the Forensics Agency. So its functioning implies the adoption of this law on the application of DNA results in court... procedures. I think it's possible we could have the law through this. 46 What the Honorable Chairman said about the professional body – we have also discussed this problem many times. Our opinion that the issue of the establishment of an expert body could not be part of this law but of the law on police agencies, or structures, because this should define how they function, this is about this law. So, if we accept these views that are part of a maximum consensus by the Constitutional Legal Commission, the SNSD Club will support this law without any dilemma. These other additions, I think, could affect our commitment in that sense, not to be supported. I would like to say, too, that in BiH there are very few experts in this area and there will be room for all. Also, when it comes to equipment, we are a very poor country to use or to buy more. ... I think it's part of a deal that shouldn't be the subject of legal solutions. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-BA_2010-05-12-0.u34743	Thank you. The next is respected, the second vice president, Dr. Milorad Živković.
ParlaMint-BA_2010-05-12-0.u34744	Thank you, Chairman. I want to say that I did not attend a public debate, but I read a transcript from a public debate and I saw that experts from Croatia, Serbia, here from BiH, from our Federation agencies were at this public debate. I read their opinions on this, which, I must say, differed widely from country to country and between them that this law should read, starting with the very name of the law where the law was proposed to be otherwise called and to say that it was a law on the application of forensic analysis, and not on the title that we currently have here in the procedure 'Proposed law on the application of the results of analysis of deoxyribonucleic acid in court proceedings', and I think that proposal that came from the Federal Bureau was more appropriate for this law. Not to talk about who these samples should be taken from, people who are sentenced to how many months or years in prison, about whether it's meant for minors to work and to store these data, so beyond that, as this law treats, that other than DNA analysis, that's Article 3, this agency has to store and sample evidence. And here is the question of the capacity of the agency itself because it is not the same to store DNA evidence and store samples that will probably require much more space than now what the Agency has. That I'm not talking about further parts of the possibility that this agency is doing some work that is not currently foreseen by law, which in practice appeared in the meantime, as if someone was dying in traffic, then not taking the dry drop, and then then exhumation is done if any trial is open, and that's spending a lot more money than could have been done in a simple way. So there was a lot of dilemma about how this law should look and how all this practice, which is obviously not even in Serbia or Croatia or here in BiH, should be reconciled. Therefore, it seems to me that for amendments to all this, those that are proposed here, I cannot vote for them because apparently this law will require frequent, frequent changes. Thank you. 47
ParlaMint-BA_2010-05-12-0.u34745	Thank you. There are no more applications for discussion and I am concluding a debate on this agenda point. Moving to the 8th point of the agenda: Ad. 8. Proposal for a Law amending and supplementing the Law on Labour in the Institutions of Bosnia and Herzegovina – Proposer: Council of Ministers of BiH, Law No 01,02-02-7-11/10 of 28. 1. 2010. (second reading) At the 72nd session of the House, held on 17. 2. In 2010, this law was adopted in the first reading. The constitutional commission is 11. 3. In 2010, a public debate took place, and we were 20. This year, a report with 23 amendments adopted was submitted. I'm opening a debate on the draft law in the second reading. Dear Representative Šefik Džaferović.
ParlaMint-BA_2010-05-12-0.u34747	Mr. Chairman, colleagues and colleagues, therefore, this is another law in a series of laws on which the Constitutional Commission held a public debate. The public debate has shown, as can be seen from the stenogram, that there is a great interest in this area in BiH and that there are a number of issues to be addressed when work relations are on Wednesday. There have been a lot of amendments, and I want to give this opportunity to commend the people of the Department of Justice who worked together with the Constitutional Commission, and in them we have really sincere associates, starting with the minister and beyond. And here we have this text that we received as a result of the vote in the Constitutional Court and I propose that the House of Representatives adopt this law. That's it, thank you.
ParlaMint-BA_2010-05-12-0.u34748	Thank you. Dear Representative Momčilo Novaković.
ParlaMint-BA_2010-05-12-0.u34749	Thank you, Mr. Chairman. Well, you see, I have to comment on an amendment adopted in the procedure, and I must say immediately that I am very sorry that there has been a misunderstanding between me and Mr. Prodanović on the investment of the counter-amendment on this amendment by Mr. Izetbegović so that neither of us has submitted an amendment or a counter-amendment to this adopted amendment by Mr. Bakir Izetbegović. So that was the deal between the two of us. Unfortunately, it seems to have been a misunderstanding. He expected me to do it, and I expected him to do it, and it happened that no one did it. 48 It is the fact that this amendment has changed, i.e. in Article 45 relating to Article 104, a new position which reads: 'In the event that the law and other regulations of the entity and Brcko District in different ways regulates the issue in the field of health care of employees, pension and disability insurance and other types of social protection of employees, thereby leading to discrimination of employees, the Council of Ministers of BiH will, by its decision, regulate the issues of the position (1) of this member in a unique manner to eliminate discrimination against employees.' This just isn't possible. So we simply put in here a provision and put in charge of the Council of Ministers for something he can't. It is about something much more serious and what is the subject of a serious reform. So it's something that needs to be the subject of one serious reform, not three or four sentences in a member of this law. You know that the reform of the health care system has been tried several times so far, so at least some starting points have been sought at which we could move into this reform and that this is a reform that we haven't yet set out to do. If we adopt this, then we open up space, the other side of the story, we open space for all other things where MPs, employees, tenants, etc., which from different entities encourage where different procedures are, they have to be equalized here. So it's not just a problem, it's a problem, it's not just a health insurance problem, it's a pension insurance problem. We have other problems regarding working status. So I just don't see that this is the solution to the problem that was going to be achieved. And I don't see how the Council of Ministers will handle this, how the Council of Ministers will handle it by its decision. Therefore, the Council of Ministers should resolve its decision, not by law, but by decision. And secondly, I don't understand how the Ministry gave a positive opinion on this amendment, and it did. That's what I asked at the Constitutional Commission session. And I didn't get the answer. Which is motive for the Ministry, so other than of course we all agree that it's not okay and it's not controversial, because I don't think it's okay, but it can't be removed this way. So there's got to be some other way of removing this problem. I must be honest that we now have a serious problem, at least as far as I'm concerned, that we don't have a countermand, and that, on the other hand, I, as Slavko Jovičići, will now speak for myself, and I can only speak for myself and speak for myself, so here as far as I am concerned, I will not support this law with this amendment by Mr Bakir Izetbegović.
ParlaMint-BA_2010-05-12-0.u34750	Thank you. Replica, the esteemed representative Bakir Izetbegović.
ParlaMint-BA_2010-05-12-0.u34751	So, rights are earned by work, right, from pay over how travel expenses are treated, I don't know, that I'm not counting any further rights now, and so is this health insurance and everything. They must be the same. Two colleagues sitting in the same room, making the same contribution to work, why would they have different regimes compared to these things. So the Constitution guarantees them that they will have the same rights. Then we should look at how the RS entity solves the daily, so we can give the daily allowance for travel expenses and how in the Federation some things are solved differently, right? All rights should be equal and I urge you not to do this thing. Don't do this to pregnant women who come from the Federation who work in this house in state institutions. And I especially appeal to Dr. Prodanović that 49 doesn't do it. Don't, especially with regard to pregnant women, do this kind of thing. Ask your conscience if it should be done. Please, don't make any countermands, don't vote, don't break the law. Let me say, first of all, women who go to pregnancy who have equal rights.
ParlaMint-BA_2010-05-12-0.u34752	Thank you. Dear Representative Šefik Džaferović, replica.
ParlaMint-BA_2010-05-12-0.u34753	So, Mr. Chairman, as the president of my club said and the applicant of this amendment, Mr. Izetbegović, the reason for this amendment was the known problem that we have discussed here several times, and it is related, we can say, on the proposal of counterpart Hadžiahmetović and all those who are and who have not mentioned about the different treatment of the maternity family. Indeed, I mean, it simply, you have the law, the main part of the amendments to this law is standardisation with EU acts, and the main part of this standardisation concerns the prohibition of discrimination. We have really introduced a lot of provisions in amending and supplementing this law concerning the ban on discrimination at work. And we promote this as a principle and bring our legislation into line with EU legislation, i.e. international legal acts. And then in that same law, we promote discrimination. Those two things I can't do together. We cannot comply with the law and promote a ban on discrimination, and then prescribe discrimination in one of the last provisions of this law. 'Cause look, this bill of law, the legislator of this law, is aware that this is wrong. And then he said, "Until the issue of social and health care is settled in a unique manner for BiH institutions, regulations will apply from the area according to their place of residence, so entities." So says the law in its original proposal, which came from the Council of Ministers. So, the promoter himself is aware that for workers working in BiH institutions, this matter should be regulated in a unique way. It would be the same for you as if we had different salaries for ministerial assistants or for any of us given the place of residence, from where any of us came from, I from the Federation, Mr. Živković from RS, and just because we have, and we do the same job. It just can't hold up as a solution. I know on the other hand, what Mr. Novaković was talking about, this is structural reform, this requires structural reform, but it is not my goal, nor any of us, to push through any structural reforms. So, you know, this isn't the point. And that is why it is said that the Council of Ministers will arrange until it is settled in BiH. This will one day, for those of us who work here in BiH institutions will be uniquely resolved that the Council of Ministers is careful that there is no discrimination and that it then regulates these matters with its decision. So that's the essence of this amendment. This will simply preserve our face in front of Evropa because we are promoting a ban on discrimination and here we will remove this discrimination that was written through the law itself. That's it, thank you. 50
ParlaMint-BA_2010-05-12-0.u34754	Thank you. Dear Representative Azra Hadžiahmetović, replica.
ParlaMint-BA_2010-05-12-0.u34755	Thank you, Chairman. Here, I just need to remind my fellow Members and fellow Members, and especially of the intervention of counterpart Novaković, of the timely debate that took place in this House on my proposal for a law on amendments and additions to the Labour Act concerning this matter. The law was not adopted in the Parliamentary Assembly because of insufficient votes, especially according to the entity voting system, and using the argument of constitutional jurisdiction in terms of forms of direct taxes such as contributions to health insurance in entity competences, or in the Federation in the competences of cantons. Unfortunately, we had, after the collapse of the bill, particularly prominent discrimination in BiH institutions, which is why, among other things, this formulation, that is, this adopted amendment in the public debate on this bill. I'll just remind you, this formula that stands here doesn't change anything absolutely in constitutional jurisdiction. It obliges the Council of Ministers only to coordinate it in a unique manner, which can be done by decision of the Council of Ministers without touching in the existing powers defined by the Constitution, i.e. by the constitution of two entities. Thank you.
ParlaMint-BA_2010-05-12-0.u34756	Dear Representative Momčilo Novaković, replica.
ParlaMint-BA_2010-05-12-0.u34757	Now look at the situation. Here, if it stays like this, the Council of Ministers makes a decision that, I don't know, maternity leave for a year, right, even though it's about six months, somewhere a year, and now the Council of Ministers is making a decision – it's impossible to resolve by decision. That's exactly what I was talking about. So we have a problem, we have, whether we're going to call it discrimination now or not, look, we can interpret it differently, but here we have, to call it that name of discrimination, we have a problem. But we don't have a solution through this amendment. So we don't have a solution. We have something we want to solve, and we can't solve it by decision. I don't mind if we settle this by law, not by decision. So it's not possible to resolve the decision. That's all I'm saying. Therefore, and once we adopt this law, I do not believe the Council of Ministers will be able to end this. I'm so if we're going to formally say, here, we did it but now the Council of Ministers has informed us that he's not in a position to do it, but he's going to propose changes to the law or some law, I don't know either, okay. Maybe that's the intention. But if this is how we're gonna solve it, I don't think so. I am more than convinced that the Council of Ministers based on what has now will not solve this issue. That's why I discussed it like this. So, if I'm not talking about opening up right now, I don't think it's a transfer of jurisdiction, but I think it opens one area in this way, in an inappropriate way, one question that's much more serious than what we're doing here today and that's why we shouldn't have regulated it this way. Here, I still say 51, after all, we have a minister here: Is it possible for the Council of Ministers to resolve this by its decision, not by law?
ParlaMint-BA_2010-05-12-0.u34758	Thank you. Dear Representative Ekrem Ajanović, a replica.
ParlaMint-BA_2010-05-12-0.u34759	Mr. President, I answered because I see that there are conflicting opinions on the introduction of this amendment into the law, and in fact everything has been practically resolved and left to the government to sort of reconcile these little differences. First of all, health insurance. True, where a man lives no matter where he earns his salary, health benefits go. Therefore, there remains all the benefits of health care in the man where he lives, where he belongs. So there's no dilemma. If someone works at the General Hospital of Teshanj and lives in Doboj, the General Hospital of Teshanj pays him contributions to the RS Health Insurance Fund and he gets all these privileges or responsibilities or anything like all the other citizens in the RS. So is the Brcko District and so is... As far as disability-retirement insurance is concerned, the same way is resolved. Therefore, there is no problem. The problem remains only the length of the illness, whether it's settled there for three months, here for six months, which the government can by its act, not even by law, can solve and even. So where the priority is that the sick is less, she says we'll give our officers to be sick as it is for officials working from the RS, from the Brcko District. Therefore, it is not an indecisible question not to adopt this law. It's quite rightly solved and can be solved. Not even by law, but by government decision or otherwise, which certainly the lawyers know better than I do, no matter what I do long and in health care and in funds.
ParlaMint-BA_2010-05-12-0.u34760	Thank you. The next one is the distinguished representative Lazar Prodanović for the debate.
ParlaMint-BA_2010-05-12-0.u34761	Mr. Chairman, we at the SNSD Club do not dispute the problem that is present with employees in BiH institutions, there is an unequal position, here in this segment in particular, which is of particular importance and it is unnecessary to discuss that we are for an unequal position in this regard. However, I will not repeat what everyone here has said, in the most part I agree with these proposals, and this is also what distinguished counterpart Novaković said. We believe that this adopted amendment... 23. So there is no basis under the law and we were surprised by the position of the competent ministry on this issue. Our goal is to pass this law and put it in the same position all, first of all, right here in this case of maternity care. Although it should not be forgotten that there is a very high responsibility for lower levels of government in BiH due to 52 non-harmonisation of legislation. It's a key problem that creates in a certain sense problems because we wouldn't be discussing this at all today... a question. So on behalf of the club, I'd like to suggest one conclusion. So, I suggest that the House postpone its statement today on this law. To task the Constitutional Commission's leadership with proposing amendments, and therefore with this conflicting view on this and with the competent ministry, there is a certain compromise solution and it is proposed that we declare ourselves to this law at the next session. Otherwise, we're going to be considering the law today and not adopting it, and I don't think we're losing anything in 15 days to make a statement about this law with a possible deal. I am convinced that the appeal to the BiH Constitutional Court will significantly affect the necessity of implementation of the decision, so the constitutional court's position in the legislation that will remove these obstacles as well. So, we have a situation that is what it is, we have an appeal that is based on this proposal that should surely be expected as soon as possible and I believe that it cannot be on the other side of the road compared to the one that is present here, but we need to regulate it in accordance with the law. We're not losing anything in 15 days to come up with some compromise solution and pass this law. That's it, thank you.
ParlaMint-BA_2010-05-12-0.u34762	Thank you. Dear second vice president, Dr. Milorad Živković.
ParlaMint-BA_2010-05-12-0.u34763	Thank you, Chairman. We have debated here several times, according to distinguished colleagues and colleagues, on this issue and apparently the question has tried to resolve itself over its knee, undermining all the consequences that can have such a solution. I appeal to, to say, non-business opportunities to try this amendment to sort of agree to vote on its erasure so that we have the Labour Act as proposed by the Council of Ministers and the way this committee has adopted 22 amendments without this amendment and would do a good job, waiting for all relevant institutions here in BiH to say about this problem that has not been addressed since yesterday, which was treated by a decision, and then by law. The problem is much more complex and it's not just about pregnant women, how they want to get back to some sensitivity here. The issue is also this amendment, which has been adopted, treats everything: from the health care of employees, is meant for all health care, pension-inhabited insurance and other types of social protection of employees. And the beginning of the amendment reads: 'In case the law and other regulations of entities and Brcko District regulate these issues in a different way', we know that they regulate and there is no news in BiH that this is regulated differently, but it is also known that RS wants to put an accent on the family, that the Federation wants to put an accent on people with disabilities and try even in the Federation to create a unique position so that we can negotiate further and there is a single solution. A decision by the Council of Ministers cannot partially destroy the entire system, from residence, contributions, payments to the RS and the Federation budget, and then the payment to the BiH budget and the exercise of these rights through the BiH budget. It's just impossible. You will open a wide range of requests from disabled people to pensioners through the achievement of the health care of the sick. This is not how this 53 issue can be resolved by a decision in BiH. Let's put this amendment away, let's get the Labour Law and let's talk about this problem seriously, not buy cheap political points in the election campaign.
ParlaMint-BA_2010-05-12-0.u34764	Replica, the esteemed representative Bakir Izetbegović.
ParlaMint-BA_2010-05-12-0.u34765	I think it's acceptable what counterpart Prodanović suggested. And we're here ready not to spread things, just to go to maternity care. As Mr. Živković said, if that's all there is to it, then there may be room for conversation. So, let's accept what Prodanović has suggested and that here we give up on the rest and only go after pregnant women.
ParlaMint-BA_2010-05-12-0.u34766	Thank you. The next is Honorable Representative Halid Genjac.
ParlaMint-BA_2010-05-12-0.u34767	Thank you, Chairman. The discussion turns out to respect the problem of all present MPs who exist with their families and that everyone respects the fact that it is an acute state that does not tolerate delaying and that it is indeed an injury and that discrimination is discrimination. If we rejected this amendment, or the amendment adopted only eliminated, we would not solve anything, we would adopt a law that continues to tolerate this situation and Bog knows when to be resolved. If this proposal were to be accepted by Mr. Prodanović, and I think it offers a solution, I really agree that this amendment, which also treats pension-involved insurance and all kinds of social protection, etc., carries the suspicion and question of what is thought and what can be under it. However, these additional 15 days or 10 days needed for consultations and that an additional deadline should be given to this committee to amend this amendment in an event-by-case manner, together with the Council of Ministers, would give time for this amendment to be modified in such a way that it means only what is really necessary and nothing more. I think that's the answer.
ParlaMint-BA_2010-05-12-0.u34768	Replica, distinguished representative Šefik Džaferović.
ParlaMint-BA_2010-05-12-0.u34769	Try to get out of this situation, so if you agree to be just a foster parent, here's the attitude and the SDA Club - we don't need 15 days. That's what we'll do during the session today. It's over in 10 minutes, no problem at all. Here is the Ministry of Justice, here are colleagues, we will offer an amendment, new aspects, let the amendment enter into new aspects, common our amendment, and only to the maternity care to limit it and we have finished the job.
ParlaMint-BA_2010-05-12-0.u34770	Dear second vice president, Dr. Milorad Živković, replica. 54
ParlaMint-BA_2010-05-12-0.u34771	I am pleased that we have come to a position to solve a part by part of these very, say, burning problems in BiH. Here, we agree to say that we will positively discriminate against the employees of BiH when it comes to maternity care. But then here we must also respect the constitutional structure of BiH, say that in the case of laws and other regulations, we do not have to state that, in the area of health care relating to the protection of maternity care, those rules in BiH that handle this job best and thus give others the opportunity to improve it. Here, I'm for that solution. And there is the possibility that such solutions can be made in BiH, to compete between themselves both cantons and entities and others. Let's do this job.
ParlaMint-BA_2010-05-12-0.u34772	Dear Representative Šefik Džaferović, replica.
ParlaMint-BA_2010-05-12-0.u34773	Then we solved the problem, we solved the problem. Here, then we'll adopt this proposal by Mr. Prodanović Sr. on the trail of what you were talking about. I am in favour of the births at the level of BiH institutions being treated equally, since there are several ways, where this is most favourable in BiH. That's what you said earlier and... (?) microphone not enabled That is understood, I did not think that those who are from the RS are equal to those of the Federation, but that they have everything. If that's it, we've solved the problem. Only then will it take time to consider the aspects of this Council of Ministers' decision now, what, what. Then it would take us this time to figure this out together with the Justice Department and let it not be the College of the Commission, you give it to the Constitutional Legal Commission, there are nine of us there, don't single out any of us, and this can go this way to respect the proposal of a colleague of Prodanović and on these principles that we're talking about we're going to solve the problem. Thank you.
ParlaMint-BA_2010-05-12-0.u34775	I ask the Honorable representative of Prodanović to prepare this tendency in writing, since this is his proposal, to be assigned to the Constitutional Commission of this House to come to a solution. No more reports. I'm closing the debate. Moving to the 9th item of the agenda: 55 Ad. Nine. Proposal for a Law on Amendments and Supplements to the Law on the Financing of Political Parties – Proposers: Representatives Milorad Živković, Niko Lozančić and Šefik Džaferović (second reading) At the 76th session of the House, held on 21. 4. In 2010, this law was adopted in the first reading. The report was submitted by the Commission for Finance and Budget 11. 5th of this year, which states that no amendments have been tabled, and the text of the bill unanimously accepted. I'm opening a debate on the draft law in the second reading. Dear Representative Sadik Bahtić.
ParlaMint-BA_2010-05-12-0.u34777	I'll take it for a while. You have already said that the Finance and Budget Commission unanimously adopted the Proposal for a Law on Amendments and Supplements to the Law on the financing of political parties. There were no amendments. It is mainly technical changes, except in Article 3 where in one calendar year the limit is increased from 8 to 15 for legal persons. Article 4 also establishes the obligation for a political party to keep records of all contributions from natural and legal persons and to issue a certificate to natural and legal persons from whom it has received the contribution. I call on this House to adopt the proposed amendments to the Law on the financing of political parties. Thank you.
ParlaMint-BA_2010-05-12-0.u34778	Thank you. Dear Representative Momčilo Novaković next.
ParlaMint-BA_2010-05-12-0.u34779	Here I am to continue what I started in the debate on the law that my colleague Lijanović proposed. In fact, Article 3 of this law says that after the adoption of this law in one calendar year, a legal person will be able to give 15 average net salaries instead of 8 average net salaries so far. You see, we now have a record, so the parties that are in power and who are in control today of getting jobs and public tenders, so we have a situation where obviously our donor numbers are dropping, so we need to increase the funds, so they're giving more people who get more jobs. Simply translated that's actually it. I think that these people who run those legal entities, especially these directors of private firms, would be overjoyed if their obligation was only 15 average salaries in this election campaign. ...a case that in some ways at least a little legalized part of what they will unfortunately have to give to ruling structures if they want to get some jobs in future times. I don't think the bill promoter has achieved a goal with this. In particular, given that there has been no change, so the rights of funds that the political party can use in the campaign against voters. In fact, we know that this amount of funds remained the same, so simply from this is more than obvious that the number of those who are in the mood to finance political parties is smaller and that we are now going to take a little deeper down those who, not in the mood, but who are getting jobs at the expense of the authorities of certain political parties.
ParlaMint-BA_2010-05-12-0.u34780	Thank you. I won't apply for replicas, wait a minute, I remind you it's about the bill's proposal in the second reading. I remind you that no amendments have been tabled and I really admire all those who explain the amendments that have not been tabled. Replica, the esteemed representative Lazar Prodanović.
ParlaMint-BA_2010-05-12-0.u34781	I'll just have one sentence. I highly respect Momčilo Novaković as an experienced MP, but these are incomparable things regarding the amendments to this law. So, it is not working, and today he tried the proposal by Mr Lijanović, who proposed funds from the BiH budget. I believe that in BiH the only real way to finance political parties, therefore election campaigns, is transparency and the public. I don't see a problem at all why now an increase in this number of average incomes would be limited by something. The key question is to publicly announce who the donor is and how it finances it. So we have absolutely nothing and should not be in this sense of delusion. This is in line with the law, there is not a single democratic country in the world that does not use the way of collecting funds through donations, and less and less from the budget. Thank you.
ParlaMint-BA_2010-05-12-0.u34782	Thank you. Dear Representative Sadik Bahtić.
ParlaMint-BA_2010-05-12-0.u34783	Short. kolega Novaković says the ruling parties, and I believe that all smart managers and legal entities if they help and give donations to all parties. That's it, thank you.
ParlaMint-BA_2010-05-12-0.u34784	Thank you. No more reports. I'm closing the debate. Moving to the 10th point of the agenda: Ad. Ten. Proposal for a law banning all fascist and neo-fascist organisations and the use of their signs in BiH – Proposer: Council of Ministers of BiH (first reading) 57 The BiH Council of Ministers passed the law in procedure 9. 4. In 2010, 10. 5. we have received the Opinion of the Constitutional Committee on Constitutional Foundation as well as the relevant Joint Committee on Human Rights, the rights of the child, youth, immigration, refugees, asylum and ethics on the principles of law. I'm opening a debate on the bill in the first reading. Dear Representative Bakir Izetbegović.
ParlaMint-BA_2010-05-12-0.u34786	Certainly to greet is to finally have this law. And the U.S.A. will certainly support it. Normally, I can't help but pay attention to one thing, that tripod must always be made in BiH. So we have the Chetniks who did what they did in World War II, and the Ustashas who did what they did, they're historical facts. Then it should also be found among the Musiman that this chair would stand on three legs, so here is the organization that relies on the tradition of the hangar division. The hangar division is, I think, '43. For years, she made a rebellion in France, so Vermaht broke up, punished them, killed them, shut them down since '43. I don't think anything in BiH has been done that could be called, which could be characterized as seeing and promoting ideology, some ideologies of some of the SS divisions there. And then he says it was further transmitted to the Yugoslav wars in '91. '95. years of special or general name of the hangar division. What is it in '92, '93, '94? For years, it's been called the hangar division? Here we understand that Bošnjak must be brought into this, and they must bear their part of the blame. Well, let's make that hangar division, but why call on things that didn't happen, which aren't a historical factor. What '91, '95. And the Handžar division?- I'm sorry. The '43 hangar division. There's no such thing as it, there's nothing like it, no one's called for that ideology, no one's inspired, etc. So I think it's going to take for the historical truth to fix this with an amendment, and we're going to invest that amendment. Here, in our first reading, we will uphold the law.
ParlaMint-BA_2010-05-12-0.u34787	Replica, the esteemed second vice president, Dr. Milorad Živković.
ParlaMint-BA_2010-05-12-0.u34788	Thank you. I wouldn't say it's a real replica, this is more of a reminder, because I read a newspaper the other day in which your party's president, Mr. Sulejman Tihić, says BiH needs a tripod to make it stand better. So that tripod association didn't come from someone else but from the president of your party. And we shouldn't talk about the thorn like that. At the same time, as regards the SNSD Club, a debate on the 10th, 11th and 12th points of the agenda can be brought together. Since all the Serbian people's ministers in the Council of Ministers have been revoted, we will not support those laws. 58
ParlaMint-BA_2010-05-12-0.u34789	Thank you. Replica, the esteemed representative Bakir Izetbegović.
ParlaMint-BA_2010-05-12-0.u34790	Well, I said we agreed to that tripod. Here, the Handžar division? Just to lie about something since '91. '95.? Why should we talk about the ideologies of the SS Division? None of that ideology specifically promoted either... So, I think these things need... and here we'll have to accept. So the Handžar division has committed crimes in BiH. How far she got to that '93. A year? But that is one change of what the Ustashas and the Chetniks did.
ParlaMint-BA_2010-05-12-0.u34791	Replica, distinguished representative Momčilo Novaković.
ParlaMint-BA_2010-05-12-0.u34792	Here, I called to support Mr. Izetbegović. I think the man is absolutely right. The ones who've been causing trouble since '91. '95. I can't look up to the hangar division, but those of the hangar division should look up to them, those who came down from some Asian countries, and I don't know either. So I don't think it's correct, so that's where this hangar division is put. I guess she was put in to make it easier for these first two items to swallow. And I absolutely agree with my colleague Izetbegović that this is an artificial creation of some balance. Of course, I look at it a little bit from another angle, not probably from what he looks at, not from those aspects from which he observes it.
ParlaMint-BA_2010-05-12-0.u34793	Thank you. Honorable representative of the Vesna Šain, debate.
ParlaMint-BA_2010-05-12-0.u34794	Your Honor, I don't like this bill, and I don't like it because I feel the same way that history ends here. I would say for the Ustasha movement that it was created in the frameworks of fascist Italy and Germany, that it was indeed one fascist organization and that in World War II it was headed by NDH. Those who were an integral part of this fascist organization have also overcome tutors by their cruelty and cruelty. We know the concentration camps, the ways they said hello, the features, and that it really was a fascist organization in the right sense. We know that the Handžar Division was a German SS division and that in its ranks were members of the Muslim people who were from the territory of the former Yugoslavia and who committed crimes primarily on the Serbian people. The Chetnik movement, in fact, was a liberating movement created in the fight against the Ottoman Empire. That's how the movement originally started. So the Chetnik movement cannot be classified into these two fascist organizations that we want to ban because we know that the first anti-fascist movement in 59 Europe was organised by Draža Mihajlović. I suppose you know the fact that French President de gol convicted Tito... and never wanted to meet and visit the former Yugoslavia just because Draža Mihajlović was sentenced to death. So what happened after World War II when there was a conviction could have been for political and ideological reasons. There was a crime. They did crimes and partisans, so they're not a fascist organization. So it's a matter of ideology and politics that condemned it, so I'm to ban fascist and neo-fascist organizations, but not in this way. Also in Article 3 of this Law, attitude (3), we will now find, as it says: 'The titles, streets, squares and legal persons found guilty of war crimes or crimes against humanity committed both in the Second World War and in the Yugoslav wars from 1991 to 1995 are prohibited. In the sense of this law, a person found guilty of war crimes or crimes against humanity are persons who have been found guilty of such crimes before the competent courts." According to this, street names can be worn by those who have not been processed, so, and they experienced death as Alija Izetbegović, Franjo Tuđaman, and Serbian leaders from the last war mean they cannot get their streets just because they were processed and did not die before the process was reached. That's it, thank you.
ParlaMint-BA_2010-05-12-0.u34795	Replica, the esteemed representative Denis Bećirović.
ParlaMint-BA_2010-05-12-0.u34796	We've heard a lot in this House, but just like this, someone out loud said that Dragoljub Draže Dragoja Mihajlović's criminal movement is a liberating movement, well, it hasn't had any power to say it in this House yet, at least publicly. But that's what we heard. I think that, first of all, is an insult to nearly 100,000 victims of the Chetnik movement only in World War II, and this is the victims of a Chetnic crime where there are precise Chetnic orders when and where to kill, slaughter, etc. No one here has questioned for a moment that the Ustasha organization is a fascist organization. Even at the end of the vote, I believe that Izetbegović, Mr Bakir, will also vote in favour of this law regardless of whether the Handžar Division is found in this law because it was still part of the Reich. But why is this phenomenon here trying to introduce the Chetnik movement as a god's anti-fascist movement? So never at the premises of the former Yugoslavia and BiH until 1941 did the people and people in these areas know a phenomenon called the worship cult and knife cult. It is the cult that slaughters and the knife cult admits to being developed by Draža Mihajlović. He has just, there are orders from both the archives and Belgrade, developed a system of black troikas and he has placed on the lists the ominous letter "Z" in the names of people, above all in Serbia and BiH. That letter "Z" meant "shut." Because of his letter "Z" tens of thousands, 100,000 people, above all, were estimated to have died in Podrinj from the Chetnik movement. And to tell someone here in Parliament that it's a liberating movement, it's really an insult, first of all, to the victims of this country, without using some more difficult terms. So it would be good if someone claimed it was a free movement to tell us what they were getting rid of. There are some criteria when you define an antifascist movement. Do you know, Mrs. Šain, and one battle between the Chetnik movement with the Italian fascists and the Nijemac? If 60 you know one battle where it happened to tell us where she was. And there are dozens, not to say, and hundreds of documents on direct collaboration of the Chetnik movement with Italian fascists, with the Nijemac and even with the Ustasha movement at the end of the war. Therefore, it would be good, when we talk about this topic, to try to understand a little bit of people in this country, as there are forces in this House from people to say: yes, the Ustasha movement has made genocide and crimes against the Serb people, on the Rom, on the Jevrej, on the anti-fascists of Bošnjak and Hrvat, that you too try to understand that this Chetnic movement has committed terrible crimes against Bošnjak and on the Hrvat, and on the Srbin. It's the only way we can build a future, not talk about what's been done,
ParlaMint-BA_2010-05-12-0.u34797	Time!
ParlaMint-BA_2010-05-12-0.u34798	First of all, in western Serbia, citizens of Serbian nationality from the Chetnik movement.
ParlaMint-BA_2010-05-12-0.u34799	Dear First Vice-President Beriz Belkić, Replica.
ParlaMint-BA_2010-05-12-0.u34800	Dear colleagues and colleagues, therefore, despite the obvious need for our society to settle this matter and primarily because of the fact of our mental health, so to speak, and for... the need to respect some European standards, because it is obvious that Europe will not in its society those who do not have a clear definition of such things, I have volunteered for the replica to practically ask us to refrain from proposing this law for a simple reason, so as to avoid the situation and the possibility of having this kind of debate that I am responsible for: not to solve the problem, but it also sends messages from this hall that encourage and encourage both fascist and non-fascist ideologies and movements. So, I suggest we take a break for 10 minutes so we can cool off a little bit so we can continue the debate. Thank you.
ParlaMint-BA_2010-05-12-0.u34801	Thank you. Wait a minute, so the planned lunch break was at 1400 hours. From this moment on, from 13.45 to 14.45 a.m. for lunch. [[PAUZA]] Ladies and gentlemen of the Parliament, distinguished guests, please take your seats to continue our work. I remind you, we are in the process of discussing the bill on the ban on all fascist and neo-fascist organisations and the use of their signs in BiH. Here I see 61 one number of replicas has fallen, so whoever doesn't have a big need (and that's why we used this break) I ask that, preferably, they give up on the replicas, but everyone will get right in accordance with the Rules of Procedure. And as for the discussion, I don't think it will contribute to either adopting or not adopting this bill. But I don't want to deny anyone his business rights. Dear Representative Slavko Jovičić.
ParlaMint-BA_2010-05-12-0.u34803	Thank you very much, Mr. Chairman. It's taxing and very fast. When this law was in the process under Mr Bećirović's proposal, then I said I should go straight ahead: I support Mr Belkić's proposal to withdraw this. I plead here all the time: let's make laws that will bind us and keep us calm. What will this law bring to pass today? Is anything going to work out? He won't. 90% of Srbin in RS will say: what you banned from the Chetnik movement when their organisations were up there. And which one of theirs, no one knows, but theirs is important, or ours. And in order not to do so, there's a criminal law, and that's when I asked when this law was in the procedure: when the court proves what kind of organization it is, to be banned immediately. Not to be banned, but to arrest all members of these organizations. Arresting everyone immediately, processing. People, but that's not possible. That's why it's a great proposal for Mr. Belkić to pull this out of the process because it won't do us any good, people. We're not gonna solve anything. And who will prove to me, here today, what is this fascist organization? I'm never going to bid on whether I'm the greatest anti-fascist or, I don't know, I don't know, someone else, we're all here for that same opinion. It didn't do anyone any good with that ideology, it brought bad luck, and no one ever wants an accident again. Let's have some luck. And luck is if we don't have something conflicted, where these are outvoted in the Council of Ministers, so we're going to have a bad debate today, we're not going to contribute anything, and I assure you, and you know it maybe better than me, it won't solve anything to be better for the people. So what do we get? Nothing. That is why I support Mr Belkić's proposal to withdraw this proposal today (is it authorized to settle this?) And that I don't take someone else's right to a replica later or any discussion. There's no use in this law at all. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-BA_2010-05-12-0.u34804	Thank you. For the sake of correctness, I must say that Mr Belkić did not propose that the law be withdrawn from the procedure but suggested that we try to stay away from these discussions of this kind and that these projects are not proposed in the future, because they enter and return only, do not lead forward, in the shortest way possible.
ParlaMint-BA_2010-05-12-0.u34805	Maybe I didn't understand. Here's my suggestion.
ParlaMint-BA_2010-05-12-0.u34806	Well, it can't be procedured now. 62
ParlaMint-BA_2010-05-12-0.u34807	Here I suggest we find some solution, not to vote today, so tomorrow the paper will show how Serbian MPs have again settled into some fascist, as before. Here I suggest we find a business opportunity to take this down because nothing will contribute to us. Here, I suggest you find a way.
ParlaMint-BA_2010-05-12-0.u34808	Please submit your proposal in writing. When we're in the time of the plea, then we'll get to the bottom of your proposal. Next is Honorable Representative Mirko Okolić. ___________(?) [[no microphone turned on]] No, I'm closing the argument. We're moving on to the 11th point of the Ad agenda. 11. Proposal for a Law on Amendments and Supplements to the Law on the conduct of a judicial examination in Bosnia and Herzegovina – Proposer of the Council of Ministers of BiH (first reading)
ParlaMint-BA_2010-05-12-0.u34810	No microphone turned on
ParlaMint-BA_2010-05-12-0.u34811	Business intervention, distinguished representative Selim Bešlagić.
ParlaMint-BA_2010-05-12-0.u34812	... Mr. Živković came out and said that the next two laws, meaning the law under regular number 11 and regular number 12, were reputed to the Council of Ministers and that the SNSD would not support those laws. [[no microphone turned on]] If that's true, I suggest you just read the law and move on, because we open the debate and we know in advance that this law will not be implemented. I think it would be good if that information were correct, Mr. Živković said. Thank you. 63
ParlaMint-BA_2010-05-12-0.u34813	I heard the statement of honorary representative Živković and he expressed his position, which he has the right to do. And you will also have the right to apply for a hearing and not apply for a hearing after I move on to the agenda points. So, we moved to the 11th item of the agenda: Proposal for a Law on Amendments and Supplements to the Law on taking a judicial examination in BiH, in the first reading. The BiH Council of Ministers passed the law in parliamentary procedure 14. 4. 2010 The opinion was delivered by the relevant Constitutional Commission 10. 5. 2010 I'm opening a debate on the bill in the first reading. Dear Representative Šefik Džaferović.
ParlaMint-BA_2010-05-12-0.u34814	Mr. Chairman, colleagues and colleagues, I am also a little surprised by Mr. Živković's position, and I would like someone to explain to me from the SNSD Club, if true, that there is no support in that club for this amendment law and amendments to the Law on the conduct of a judicial examination. I mean, this was unanimous on the Constitutional Commission, there was no problem. I don't see anything problematic. I don't know what it is. As far as I know, there's a little change and a few of these technical changes. The essential thing is that in relation to these new titles... and this rest determines who has the right to approach the judicial exam, the number of points that a man must have to have in order to approach, because everything happens, I mean, in practice, different diplomas he has, and I think this is the introduction of order into this area. There's a minister here, and I'd really like to hear what it is, so we'll probably be fixing it in the amendment phase. I'm ready for us to work on it. What's the problem if it's a problem? Did my colleague Živković really mean this law or did he mean this Official List here and this previous law? Now, I'd like some clarifications because I don't really see anything that would be against anyone in BiH.
ParlaMint-BA_2010-05-12-0.u34815	Thank you. Dear Representative Drago Kalbić.
ParlaMint-BA_2010-05-12-0.u34816	Here, I can only confirm on behalf of the club that it is the club's position, what Mr. Živković said. The fact is that what's small for someone is large and opposite. And it's often a sighted thing, that's how it tries to introduce itself. But we said in principle, this relationship, that is, the state of the Council of Ministers when proposed. I think they could have tried to make the difference between each other before entering this procedure. And in some ways, the minister and why the Council of Ministers did not receive the bill's support. So I don't believe someone did it out of a clean lunch. And we feel that things like this, as was the previous law, and otherwise it is not good to vote and to vote on the Council of Ministers, and that this should not be practice and principled, means, even though there are fundamental objections here, even if there are no largely, we will not support this principle of revote, because: em, ministers are not at 64 sessions, em, they are not making enough efforts to come to such solutions and they are also trying a little bit to explain why such relations are in the Council of Ministers. And here everyone decides according to the attitudes of his club and I don't know how, and we don't think of arguing to anyone about how he got his attitude and his decision. Here, I've correctly stated what our basic reasons are, so we can't support such a practice.
ParlaMint-BA_2010-05-12-0.u34817	Thank you. Replica, the esteemed representative Denis Bećirović.
ParlaMint-BA_2010-05-12-0.u34818	Well, truth works to say that the thing isn't as simple as it's been presented. In fact, it is obvious here that all principles in the work of both Parliament and general government have been broken at national but also at other levels. We have so far had a common practice that it happened in the Council of Ministers and unanimously adopted some proposals, so it falls either in the House of Representatives or the House of Peoples. Now, the problem is when they didn't agree to it, we can't do it again. So it's obvious that it's not this simple and that I think there are only reasons to stop things, and in fact we're not stopping anyone individually, but all the people in this country.
ParlaMint-BA_2010-05-12-0.u34819	Thank you. Dear Representative Husein Nanić _________(?) [[no microphone turned on]] And I apologize, distinguished representative Drago Kalabić, replica.
ParlaMint-BA_2010-05-12-0.u34821	Well, you see, I didn't want to get into that kind of controversy, if anything else to be effective. Everyone has their own opinions and opinions, and it is unlikely that this debate will change who made the contribution and who acted as he did. We just heard a proposal that was acceptable to end the debate on this bill, which we have also accepted and supported. Let me remind you, it's one of the laws where the Serbian people's ministers are overvoted. One totally unnecessary law, which is what he was leading in the direction he's leading, and it's a good thing we did that. So it's not as simple as someone, but I'm still saying, don't argue right here with anyone to make decisions, we're hard to come up with that compromise and consensus, it's not an unknown thing at all. And then if any and such condition worsens further with this entry, because this is where decisions are made in this House. The Council of Ministers? We know what their position is. So here is the responsibility for the adoption and the law, 65, but if someone further worsens and such a difficult situation in the House of Representatives with this kind of entry into the Council of Ministers when they pass these laws, it's logical that that's the case. I wouldn't be here right now about principledness, unprincipledness and everything that's been going on, but if anyone will convince me that a compromise has been tried here... no one has done anything to try a deal. No Niko has done anything here to try to make these questions, and neither is it good, nor is it normal, and as far as it's concerned, we can only be consensual about it, well, at least those who allegedly advocate a deal, for the state, for everything else, at least, they should work a little harder, and not that they accept the situation – the worse, the better.
ParlaMint-BA_2010-05-12-0.u34822	Thank you. I don't have any more logs.
ParlaMint-BA_2010-05-12-0.u34823	No microphone turned on
ParlaMint-BA_2010-05-12-0.u34824	Do you?
ParlaMint-BA_2010-05-12-0.u34825	No microphone turned on
ParlaMint-BA_2010-05-12-0.u34826	Here, there is a registered honourable representative Husein Nanić.
ParlaMint-BA_2010-05-12-0.u34827	I thank you, Chairman. I'll take this very briefly given what Mr. Džaferović mentioned here. So this, or a party that behaves like this and says that it is not ready to accept this, with a legitimate decision, we clearly send a message to students, young people who finish law school, means they won't be able to pass a judicial exam. This is just in that sense, I don't know how you can explain it to anyone, these young people who are coming or looking for a job, asking them to pass that professional exam. How to explain these games to them in the Council of Ministers that they cannot go out and take the judicial exam tomorrow, since here is the Bologna process in progress and that the new reform of education that we have accepted and determined for it.
ParlaMint-BA_2010-05-12-0.u34828	Honorable BiH Justice Minister Bariša Čolak.
ParlaMint-BA_2010-05-12-0.u34829	Thank you, Mr. President. Oh, here, I'll do it very briefly. Of course, the MPs are there and they will plead as they think they should be made known. But, just for the sake of truth, I must tell you that this law was not a single remark. So, I don't know what I'd fix, I'd like to know what the problem is, but I think we have to really try because... now it's this Bologna process and now 66 diplomas are quite different from who they were. We simply need to protect the integrity of the judicial exam. We cannot simply allow candidates whose diploma is said to be a graduate lawyer, and the question of whether or not he had those cases from which a judicial exam should be taken. So, this is just a matter of trying to get it serious and I think the law is very useful, but once again, I really didn't get a single remark on this law, not before, means in preparation, not at the Council of Ministers' session. So much, only the truth works. Thank you.
ParlaMint-BA_2010-05-12-0.u34830	No microphone turned on
ParlaMint-BA_2010-05-12-0.u34831	Sure, go ahead. Dear Representative Selim Bešlagić.
ParlaMint-BA_2010-05-12-0.u34832	We have received information here that the Council of Ministers did not receive the support of RS ministers. Is that true?
ParlaMint-BA_2010-05-12-0.u34833	I'm afraid I can't make a precise statement. My belief was that it was, but I really can't say. I know that the law next to the Official Journal did not receive support from the ministers in the order of the Serbian nation. I'm really not sure about this one. But only what I've told you: I'm sure that's what I'm saying that no single objection has been made to this law.
ParlaMint-BA_2010-05-12-0.u34834	I thank the Honorable Minister Čolak. Dear Representative Šefik Džaferović.
ParlaMint-BA_2010-05-12-0.u34835	I apologize for calling again. I would ask, if it's no problem, I'm not calling anyone, but drago, or Mr. Kalbić, you said you could talk about the essential issues of this law. I'd like to ask you to see what it is. Let's try something. What is it that is essentially a... what is your problem? If there's that point, let's see what it is. I don't know, I really don't know what it is.
ParlaMint-BA_2010-05-12-0.u34836	No microphone turned on
ParlaMint-BA_2010-05-12-0.u34837	10 minutes break at the request of the SNSD Club. We'll continue at 3:30. 67 [[PAUZA]] Please take your seats to continue. Does the president of this club want to explain the reason for the break? Dear Representative Drago Kalabić, president of the SNSD Club.
ParlaMint-BA_2010-05-12-0.u34839	I don't see a minister in the O.R., but it's no use when he's here, it's all the same, and there's no one there. One vote against, one in favour, one in agreement, but let the other in order to resolve what they could do. So the SNSD Club's position is undeniable when it comes to the need to regulate these things in the right way. I said what we were handling, believing that it was possible to correct those differences that appeared at the Council of Ministers' meeting, but they were not corrected. So we're offering a variant to find ways to postpone this, to postpone this, or plead or... One question for my esteemed colleague, Šefik Džaferović: Which Brcko District law will comply with this law? For you, it's a small thing, Mr. Džaferović, for me it's notorious nonsense and a serious mistake. So the Brcko District has no law at all that we are asking this law to comply with this law. _________(?) [[no microphone turned on]] Well, you see, people when they won't make it, can they do it? And no matter, I'm not going into the sphere of speculation. So if I ask you that, don't underestimate us that we don't know what we're doing. Should I? And various calculations and games, I'm not going to be involved in games. It takes two local communities in Brcko to pass a judicial exam. I'm not going to go into it, not to call it a little rougher, as we came into the situation: on one side of me you're trying to convince me that I need a BiH-level judicial exam, that it's something... that has value and that should have value, which I completely agree with, these people will be tried tomorrow throughout BiH. And on the other hand, you want me to say that two local communities can pass a judicial exam. And here I didn't want to get into it, I was letting the people of the Council of Ministers sit down, take a little ride to Banja Luka and Mostar to sort it out. They won't solve it, but let's go, if it could somehow, so you know it goes away. Here, we don't mind if we go through. Here, I'm asking you this now, but it may be too late to open these questions today, because procedurally, there's nothing more we can do about it now, but we have a notorious fact that is what it is. Who said that the Brcko District, maybe someone will find out that they should, who said they should, on the basis of what law, and that we are now forcing the malts to make a law that maybe they won't, I don't know if they will. So it's not as simple as it's been presented. I suggest that the minister with the chairman of the agreement that we make business arrangements so that this doesn't go to waste, that we don't open up any further debate, and that we continue and that as Bog has told us to settle, we settle these things. Because it's not safe that... things look as simple as it was originally presented. And we don't need it anymore, 68 of us have enough problems that we can't agree on. And then, when we have these things that can at least get rid of us before we do, here's this thing that someone solved for us is no problem at all. But then, it was inconsistencies and we're being warned why it wasn't, why it wasn't given confidence at the Council of Ministers' session, it was enough time to offer solutions before, if anyone cared about this law, if it wasn't, then I think. But here, let's not open any further and not spoil the possible atmosphere, to make a deal about this, I suggest we find a business opportunity to get out of this and solve this issue.
ParlaMint-BA_2010-05-12-0.u34841	Correction of the incorrect quote, chaired by Lozančić.
ParlaMint-BA_2010-05-12-0.u34842	Thank you. Correction of several incorrect allegations by distinguished counterpart Kalabić. First, the minister is here, it's not true he's not here, so that's an incorrect assumption, he's been there all day, waiting, not entering the quality of the law. Secondly, this is not the Minister's proposal, this is the Council of Ministers' proposal. And the third incorrect allegation, I disagree that there's no use when the minister is here, no matter what minister it was, I think it's useful and that it would be more useful if all ministers were here, not just one. Thank you. Šefik Džaferović, the esteemed representative Šefik Džaferović, is a replica.
ParlaMint-BA_2010-05-12-0.u34843	Well, let me tell you, I don't think there's a lot of need, we solved this, and this is something, I mean, this is progress compared to pre-pause. Find a way not to plead, not to tear this down, we'll sit down and see what the problem is. I really don't see any further problems, I'm willing to participate in having a law. There, so nothing else.
ParlaMint-BA_2010-05-12-0.u34844	Thank you. Dear Representative Remzija Kadrić, replica.
ParlaMint-BA_2010-05-12-0.u34845	So, we can, this is the proposal for a law in the first reading, in the amendment phase, we can correct these things that the honourable MP Kalabić was talking about. So here I can say, here, and in this Article 2, there's one mistake here, maybe it's a technical error, and these things could be corrected in the amendment phase. In its position (2), it is said, that during their schooling in the curriculum and programme they have all the items listed in Article 4 of this Act. And Article 4. talks about how Article 24 needs to be deleted. Is he referring to a member of this basic law or this law? Maybe, it's probably just some mistake. 69 So all these things can be eliminated in the course of production in the amendment phase. So I really don't see any reason why these principles of this law don't support themselves, so that in the next phase one quality proposal, one quality law in the final text, is made.
ParlaMint-BA_2010-05-12-0.u34846	Thank you. I don't have any other reports. Here we are in the College consulting on what to suggest. I don't know if the esteemed colleague Kalabić would have satisfied this argument, which was essentially given by the now respected representative Kadrić, to act through the amendment phase on any possible illogicality or inadmissibility in this law.
ParlaMint-BA_2010-05-12-0.u34847	Well, I said we're left with a statement about this law. We can reconsider the position again, although I prefer to hear it, but here's for the need (if I said what I think, then you'd go out again and replicate it to me) I'll reverse the thing.
ParlaMint-BA_2010-05-12-0.u34848	I won't replicate any more.
ParlaMint-BA_2010-05-12-0.u34849	For the success of this law to give Minister Orden, here I am not going to be shy, I will say here's the successful work today was and here's the medal. We can look, but I said it wasn't a small thing and it's not safe for no reason to vote, it was a story. And we needed someone to offer to say, yes, there was a vote for that, and for that reason, in the meantime, we talked, we offer that and that solution -- and then we can talk about it. But no one offers anything, you have a problem here where you mention the issue of jurisdiction and the question of harmonisation of the laws that function, the entity, according to which people are based. Mirnes Ajanović passed a judicial exam in Banja Luka the other day. _________(?) [[no microphone turned on]] Well, I mean, here's the thing, you know, the statesman, here, whether he's a statesman or not, but I'm saying he's living proof that something works, that it's something. But here, let's not open, we said, so right in BiH he passed, we said our own about this. We all know how to look for a way out, if that's a way out, we'll try and figure out what that is.
ParlaMint-BA_2010-05-12-0.u34851	Thank you. Dear second vice president, Dr. Milorad Živković. 70
ParlaMint-BA_2010-05-12-0.u34852	Thank you, Chairman. Dear Ministers, namely, I wasn't there at the beginning of the debate, there was a misunderstanding about why we said we wouldn't support this law and I'm behind the fact that I have information that for these three legal projects that are on the agenda under 10th, 11th and 12th nobody in the order of the Serbian people voted, so you can check that information, I'm behind that information. However, here in Parliament came laws from the Council of Ministers where they were revoted, to say, from the Bosniak people of ministers. We'll remember the Census Act, we'll remember the holiday law. I ask you, colleagues, how did these laws end? They ended up in such a way that they were not even given the opportunity to enter the amendment phase, they were immediately shot down here in Parliament, although we were saying let us talk about the amendment phase and that there were fewer objections than what we're talking about right now. Is it the arches that say, "Give it away every time, and we'll knock it down in the first reading." There is a possibility that the minister in front of the Council of Ministers in a phase of discussion on this law withdraws the law to try to agree to the Council of Ministers and to come here on the agenda.
ParlaMint-BA_2010-05-12-0.u34853	I don't have any more logs. Here's the Honorable Minister of Bariša Čolak.
ParlaMint-BA_2010-05-12-0.u34854	Thank you. Well, in the end, you will, of course, decide what you think is best, but here I must admit that in article 6, what you have said and what is mentioned in Brcko District, unfortunately, it is also mentioned in basic law, it is simply translated into this law, which of course was not good either in that, or in this. So this is where District Brcko really fell in like something he shouldn't have. However, I will again responsibly repeat here in front of all of you that no single objection has been made to the Council of Ministers on this law, I repeat, any single remark. Of course, if it is possible for this law to be adopted in the first reading, it would be good to fix it in the amendment phase, but if it isn't, of course, here you decide how you think, but I say, it should be very useful if we still go to the correction and adoption of this law. It's very important. Thank you.
ParlaMint-BA_2010-05-12-0.u34855	Thank you. I don't have any more reports, I'm closing the hearing. Moving to point 12. Ad. 12. Proposal for a Law on the Public Enterprise for the issue of official BiH votes – Proposer: Council of Ministers of BiH (first reading) 71 The BiH Council of Ministers passed the law in parliamentary procedure 22. 4. 2010 The opinion was delivered by the relevant Constitutional Commission 10. 5. 2010 I'm opening a debate on the bill in the first reading. There's no record of a hearing, I'm closing the hearing. Moving to point 13. Ad. 13. Proposal for a Law amending and supplementing the Law on Service in the Armed Forces of BiH – Proposer: MP Niko Lozančić (first reading)
ParlaMint-BA_2010-05-12-0.u34858	Chairman Lozančić.
ParlaMint-BA_2010-05-12-0.u34859	Thank you. Ladies and gentlemen of the Parliament, today I'm going to try really in the short lines to repeat a few things that made me choose to propose this law. Here, we were at the last session when we discussed the procedure, essentially, and the content of this law. This time, I will look only at the Council of Ministers' negative opinion and comment on the reasons for giving a negative opinion. In this opinion, the Council of Ministers taught me the provisions of the BiH Defence Act, which defines that the Armed Forces are a professionally one military force, etc. and have an active and spare component. I have not denied the existence of that fact in any bill of law. I was further reminded that the Armed Forces consisted of professional military personnel, reserve personnel engaged in military service, civilian personnel and cadets. I have not denied these facts by any proposal to amend and supplement the law. However, they said that by accepting these amendments and supplementing the law would essentially be equal to the active and reserve military personnel in the service of the Armed Forces, which is true, but would be leveled in certain rights when they are at the service of the Armed Forces, as well as in the current law in Article 3 is literally: 'The members of the reserve staff during the service of the military service have the same rights and 72 obligations as professional military personnel'. It's already in the law if he doesn't change, so this opinion is contrary to itself. What encourages me in this negative opinion, which gives me an additional right to no longer be mentioned anywhere that, by adopting this law, it would question NATO standards and question NATO's path to BiH. It is obvious that the proponent also gave up that argument because he felt, that is, the proponent of this opinion gave up that argument because he estimated that this argument did not stand. It remains to me again, not wanting to cause any unnecessary debate, to invite you to accept this law in the first reading. I'm familiar with the fact that there are other solutions amongst the representatives. I don't think we should waste any more time through new legal solutions, I think that these ideas can be incorporated into the amendment phase of this bill and I invite you to come together, indeed, together to come to a solution that will please all of us, not wanting in any way that anything belongs to me, let it be the achievement of this House of Representatives. Thank you very much. Dear Representative Sefer Halilović.
ParlaMint-BA_2010-05-12-0.u34860	Thank you, Mr. Chairman. I, of course, read this negative opinion very carefully from the Council of Ministers, and I must say that I am surprised at the level at which it is written. The first was a resolute claim on a commission when the story began that the adoption of this law, such legal solutions would compromise BiH's path to NATO. When they realized it, and I hope they knew it, and then when they said it, they crossed that red line they shouldn't have crossed, well, now they're making up almost some nonexistent reason. And I think it's also the moral obligation of this Parliament to adopt this law today in the first reading, and all possible corrections, if there are, that through the amendment phase, they are dressed up and that this law is finally passed, because I'm going to repeat it to you once again, all of us who are sitting here, we patted on these people's shoulders in '91, '92, '93, '94, '95. For years, we promised them towers and cities, told them all kinds of things while we needed them, now that we don't need them (and before them their colleagues are taken care of) these 2,200 people will be thrown out on the street and the question is what will we get from them in response. I sincerely advocate that this law be passed, because I will repeat it once again, it has a deep human and moral dimension. Thank you.
ParlaMint-BA_2010-05-12-0.u34861	Thank you. Dear Representative Azra Hadžiahmetović.
ParlaMint-BA_2010-05-12-0.u34862	Thank you, Chairman. Here, let me remind you that the proposal of the Party for BiH MPs' Club last time during this debate, among other things, was requested by NATO, NATO headquarters, since it often called for NATO 73 standards in the reasons and qualifications of this proposal, and the population of which it was mentioned presented different solutions in some countries that are about the same status or status as BiH and in the context of NATO membership. We, among other things, have asked for the opinion of NATO headquarters in Sarajevo, and thanks to the real understanding of the specific weight of the issue that we are talking about very quickly, and we have received a response from Brigadier General Corps of the United States Marines..., namely the High Military Representative of NATO Staff in Sarajevo. I just have to say that this opinion corresponds well with the position given by the Council of Ministers, i.e. the resolution ministry, in light of this proposal. However, before I state the position of the Party for BiH, let me introduce you to a few, I appreciate, very important facts. The BiH MPs' club had communication with the population that faced this problem. I have read the questions asked earlier today and the answer Mr. Niko Lozančić received in due time by asking a parliamentary question and which explains this issue much more detail than the Council of Ministers' statement on the proposal for this law that we are talking about. Here, I will remind you here, among other things, that in the answer, it is said that this year's reduction, whether or not covered by 1,829 military personnel, that the dynamics of the termination of the military service are consistent with the dynamics of the youth reception, that a change of category for 400 soldiers who have signed the extension contracts, which has long-term resolved their status. So of these 1,829 for 400 is about, let's say, solved problem. However, they also acknowledge that this way is quite limited and that the first group of 310 soldiers was fired on February 28th 2010. Let me, before I continue with some important elements, introduce you to what this ministry has done, or the Council of Ministers in the meantime. So, it's about the people who expired on February 28th a contract signed with the Ministry of Defence and the Ministry of Defence, for example, calling for February 25th, so three days before the end of this contract, to discuss applying for aid projects under the perspective programme in terms of organising a transition workshop. So three days before these contracts expire! Similarly, let me mention that at a joint meeting in January (so less than two months before these people will face this problem) a joint team for the transition of persons who, among other things, were to formulate concrete requirements to be addressed to the BiH Parliamentary Assembly. And in this regard, we also, in the context of the bill proposed by counterpart Niko Lozančić, also held additional consultations here, with a reminder again of the indications that I mentioned, the NATO Staff, the Council of Ministers, the RES, etc., and, in particular, paying particular attention to some of the items that the Council of Ministers has given in response to the previously asked parliamentary question. In particular, what I want to apostrophe: it is that the Council of Ministers, through the Ministry of Defence, has, as it writes, taken a number of measures and activities to take care of the staff whose discharge from the service is imminent. But it's certainly not enough, etc. and, among other things, the requirement to involve state authorities and institutions of all levels is necessary. I will only remind you that we have also taken care of the fact that there is an obligation to show the Supreme Command of the Armed Forces of BiH on the proposal of this law, i.e. The presidency. We still don't have the presidency's obviouss. 74 And given all of this, the SBiH Club will today support the proposal of this law in its first reading, with an expected indication of the Presidency until the second reading and after that we will have all the facts in mind and make a decision. Thank you.
ParlaMint-BA_2010-05-12-0.u34863	Thank you. The next is distinguished representative Šemsudin Mehmedović.
ParlaMint-BA_2010-05-12-0.u34864	Gentlemen chairman, ladies and gentlemen of the MPs, namely, it's a similar situation... and in one of the previous laws that treated the maternity leave, or paid for. If there is a political will to solve the problem, then a solution can be found. So that's the case and... in solving this problem. If there is a political will to resolve the fate of these 2,312 members who are participants in the war in BiH, then it is certain that we can find a solution. Is this the kind of proposal that Mr. Lozančić suggested, is this a proposal that everyone retires and that the Council of Ministers from the BiH budget subsidise pensions by... their age when they get the right to full retirement, or is this a solution of severance, etc., etc., or a combined method – if there is a political will, then we can find a solution. Here, I hope and make myself available. I even proposed to three members of the College one of the possible solutions that would cost BiH's budget around 3 million annually. That is the difference in pensions that the Council of Ministers should make every year, i.e. when adopting the budget, we should reserve to subsidise these pensions to entity funds. Therefore, here is my support in this regard, meaning to find a solution, because this is the last group to be resolved by BiH, the last group of members of the Armed Forces who are participants in the war in BiH. So here I am saying, I'm making myself available, whether it's going to be in the amendment phase or if it doesn't get the necessary support of this law, in the form of some new law by emergency procedure, here I am ready. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-BA_2010-05-12-0.u34865	Thank you. Replica, a respected representative of Azra Hadžiahmetović.
ParlaMint-BA_2010-05-12-0.u34866	First, I apologize to you all, I don't replicate, but I have no other form, but I forgot to mention something. And, colleague Izetbegović, I apologize for just taking a moment. We appreciate that since all the countries in the region are in some way, in some particular Veterans Act, here is the condition to say so, to solve this problem, to do something similar, of course, after the final outcome of this law, of the Presidency's obviouss, etc., it should perhaps be considered in terms of resolution in our country as well. And here, in that sense, I also appreciate these 75 ideas that my colleague Mehmedović mentioned, there are perhaps better solutions, etc. to sort of get it out of the Armed Forces Act, because it regulates one substance, I say, if, of course, the whole procedure for this law would be the outcome that would require possibly a procedure or a proposal for a new law. But the fact is that both this Parliamentary Assembly and the Council of Ministers and no one in this country can close their eyes on this problem that we have faced.
ParlaMint-BA_2010-05-12-0.u34867	Thank you. The next is distinguished representative Bakir Izetbegović.
ParlaMint-BA_2010-05-12-0.u34868	So, the position of the SDA MPs' club has been since the beginning, for months now, we have been having this discussion, that we must achieve both and not endanger the way as NATO and, on the other hand, take care of these over 2,300 people who have passed the fronts in BiH. And you can achieve both. So NATO's opinion is clear: the proposal is contrary to the defence reform process. NATO believes the BiH Armed Forces must be capable of participating in operations and requires an appropriate age structure, comparable to NATO member states. The Council of Ministers also does not support and gives a positive opinion on the Proposal for a Law on Amendments and Supplements to the Law, etc. So, we, the SDA Club, will probably support today in first reading this law, just to achieve a positive pressure from the Council of Ministers and the Presidency, which is the supreme command, to get rid of these 2,300 people and we think it can be solved. Not everywhere in all NATO pact members for 35 years, this age limit is 40. Here, we can look at how it is done in Croatia. So it can be done, so active, as the Hrvat say, reserves or reserves. So get that part of those soldiers through this... fund to hire and, finally, most of them probably go into retirement. There are four or five ways and mechanisms that this thing can be amortized. So today we will uphold the law in the first reading, and then we will look for solutions that would achieve both. Thank you.
ParlaMint-BA_2010-05-12-0.u34869	Thank you. Replica, distinguished representative Momčilo Novaković.
ParlaMint-BA_2010-05-12-0.u34870	Here I am now, just as Lazo couldn't listen, so now I can't listen without replicating. It does seem strange that MPs here are discussing the background of support for the law without the Council of Ministers accepting, which makes the same parties and the same MPs or sitting here. I don't think it's right for these people, and it's unnecessary, after all, to beat them up with these stories. That the Council of Ministers wants to resolve this or that it has this political will that 76 spoke of by Mr Mehmedović, so he had a chance from the last time we delayed this until today to resolve it. He didn't have to give a negative attitude. He could have found a solution. He didn't find a solution. He gave a negative attitude. And you're still talking about how there's a chance that we can get rid of it politically. And your minister signed a negative stance. Then let's say the Council of Ministers has no will. What positive pressure we need to put on the Council of Ministers: by voting the law in the first reading, and by saying that it is absolutely unacceptable. I don't think it's correct, that it's not honest, and that really here these people need to be told a perfectly clear attitude. If we want to support this law, let's support it in the first reading. The Council of Ministers will not surely change this position, we will support it in another reading, contrary to the Council of Ministers' position, so let's see what happens! We have to choose some of those two. We can't keep dragging between these two things and pulling that thing around to somehow pass the election.
ParlaMint-BA_2010-05-12-0.u34871	Thank you. Replica, the esteemed representative of Šemsudin Mehmedović.
ParlaMint-BA_2010-05-12-0.u34872	Well, my replica refers to Mr. Novaković's position in terms of exposure: behold, our minister has signed a negative stance. What the minister signed is certainly not his personal position, but the Council of Ministers' position. Based on the Council of Ministers' position, the minister is authorised to sign a negative, positive or any other position. So again, if there is a political will in this House to find a solution, we will find it safe. But if we want to look for reasons why we're not going to solve something, we're sure to find them a lot more than positive, in terms of solving this problem.
ParlaMint-BA_2010-05-12-0.u34873	Thank you. Replica, the first deputy president of Beriz Belkić.
ParlaMint-BA_2010-05-12-0.u34874	If I understand you correctly, Mr. Novaković, you said we were beating these people up, right? If I've heard you correctly. So that's not true and we'll prove it. If you listened well, you heard what the club president said, we'll do it. Don't worry about our relationship with the Council of Ministers, etc. So we're not beating anyone up.
ParlaMint-BA_2010-05-12-0.u34875	Dear Representative Sefer Halilović, replica.
ParlaMint-BA_2010-05-12-0.u34876	Oh, I'm not gonna say anything new, I'm just gonna remind you one more time. Regardless of the position of the Council of Ministers, therefore the decisions of this Parliament are binding on the Council of Ministers, and I guess we need to be above that point once. Finally, this is the last generation of veterans that 77 of us sitting here all have a moral obligation to deal with. And I once again urge that we settle this in our first reading, and that through the amendment phase we are looking for one, two or ten possible solutions and every solution other than kicking them into the street is better than this existing Council of Ministers suggests. Thank you.
ParlaMint-BA_2010-05-12-0.u34877	Thank you. The next is a respected representative, Remzija Kadrić.
ParlaMint-BA_2010-05-12-0.u34878	I thank you, Chairman. So we here on two or three occasions are discussing this issue. And when honourable MP Sefer Halilović and you chaired the proposal of this law, no one found fit from the Ministry of Defence to attend during the debate on this law. I think it's irresponsible by the Council of Ministers, by the Ministry of Defense. They were obliged to come and take part in the debate over this law. What do we need from the Ministry of Defence, signed by Minister Selmo Cikotić? He says: 'We note that, in addition to this, due to short time and lack of information, it is not sufficiently examined which all the implications of this amendment would have to do with other regulations and documents in which BiH's commitments were made on the internal and international agenda.' I think it's at least one irresponsible relationship like this. And we have a report from the Defence and Security Commission, which says that after the general debate was held, the Joint Commission unanimously adopted the principles of the bill and put it in the process. I think the Department of Defense (someone, the minister, the deputy) was here because of the relationship to this sensitive issue that they are present, to explain to us what all these implications would produce, alleged implications of the bill's proposal, but they didn't do it. But regardless, I believe and support that this first-reading law is supported and that in the amendment phase, we make one solution that will be... satisfactory for these people.
ParlaMint-BA_2010-05-12-0.u34879	Thank you. Next is Honorable Representative Mirko Okolić.
ParlaMint-BA_2010-05-12-0.u34880	Thank you, Mr. Chairman. Here, we're back to the subject. In the beginning, some other options were discussed, not the law, but all in order to resolve the issue of these members of the Armed Forces treated by this law differently. Why there is none of the representatives of the Council of Ministers or better said by the Ministry of Defence is another proof that they are interested in this law to the extent that they have written in this report and more than that. So, if they had any interest in supporting this law, then they would probably be 78 besides this opinion, which is what it is, at least come to Parliament and explain why it is so in the oral part, on the questions asked by the MPs, because last time they were called not to and as if they wanted to hear a living word, that it might be a better explanation than what they gave in this opinion. I was interested in it for me and for some people who contacted me what the Council of Ministers thought about it. And to me, it means nothing, or this ministry, now neither first reading nor second reading if we expect anything from the Council of Ministers, or the Ministry of Defence. I don't think anything's going to change there, they're going to have the same attitude. It is up to us to decide what to do next, and therefore there is enough majority, if it is to support this law and it is best and it is most correct not to discuss much about this law, because there is no need, everything is said in it, unless something amendment something should be done, because there is no permanent limit for all members who will be subject to years of age in the future, etc., then it must be said which members in the Armed Forces are concerned, to what years, etc., etc. That's it, thank you.
ParlaMint-BA_2010-05-12-0.u34881	Thank you. The next is the second vice-president, Dr. Milorad Živković.
ParlaMint-BA_2010-05-12-0.u34882	Thank you. In fact, when we discussed the procedure last time, I think it was a good thing that we let this law go in a regular procedure and not go in an emergency procedure, because more and more things get clearer. We can determine ourselves by what comes to us from the Council of Ministers and the position that comes from the Ministry of Defense. We can reach NATO, or its centre here in Sarajevo... we can get... We've got some left to get from the presidency. And then we need to determine ourselves according to what we got from those competent institutions. It all comes down to the question, not just obligations, morals, humanity, humanism -- and the question of money. Someone here mentioned that it was 2,200 people, an average pension of 500 KM, about 2.5 million to 3 million marks on an annual basis. And the question of whether we can secure that money in BiH institutions for the next five years, how long it takes for these people not to lose their jobs and to move on to the pension funds of the entities. And the question arises whether we, and when we talked about the budget, think that BiH's budget has enough money for these purposes, so we said that every year 160 million as a ribbon is being transferred from budget to budget, so we said that there are extra funds in the position of spending funds on BiH institutions' institutions, we said that there is extra money that is non-transparently spent and located in the Minister's Council's reserve and we said there is more money that obviously cannot be spent domestically in the Ministry of Defence itself. And here, some new proposals have come out that I think should sit well and talk about and that, outside of the law that is currently in force, the Law on Armed Forces, implements the law very simply, the law concerning, let's say, the Law on the Rights of Veterans, which states in Article 1, what is a veteran, in the other members in which his question should be resolved just over the last five years. And there is money in BiH's budget to resolve this issue, if it is willing to settle 79, regardless of these opinions that come from the relevant institutions, and now we come to the conclusion that we will get their opinion from all institutions. If we here in this House think we can find that money and we can use it in a smart way, that would be in the next period: five years times three million would be 15 million. We can talk about it. Is this the best suggestion, I don't know, but I think there's a will to take this direction, too, which the distinguished colleague Azra was talking about, to think about. Thank you.
ParlaMint-BA_2010-05-12-0.u34883	Chairman Lozančić.
ParlaMint-BA_2010-05-12-0.u34884	I thank everyone for the constructive debates on this bill proposal, respecting the differences that exist on this issue. I will only use this return without any additional arguments or comments, observation of such, such as this law, I just want to ask you once again to support this law in the first reading and that in the amendment phase anyone who thinks he can offer, and I have already seen some possible solutions that seem to me personally, I say, good solutions that will allow humane solutions of these people's fates to come to them through the amendment phase and that we can really look at these people's lights. Thank you very much. I'm closing the debate. Moving to the 14th point of the agenda: Ad. 14. Report from the Joint Committee on the Efforts to reach agreement on the same text of the Labour Time Act, mandatory mobile workers' holidays and road transport recording devices 5. 5. In 2010, you received a report from the Joint Commission on the alignment of the text of this law. The subject of the consent was amandman I., adopted in the House of Peoples, on which this commission reached agreement, and it became an integral part of the law. I'm opening a debate on the report. There are no reports, I'm closing the hearing. Point 15: Ad. 15. Report by the Joint Committee on the Effort to reach agreement on the same text of the Law on Amendments and Supplements to the Road Safety Act in BiH 80
ParlaMint-BA_2010-05-12-0.u34891	No, I've been to the last point, and it's not for...
ParlaMint-BA_2010-05-12-0.u34892	You checked in late. Dear Representative Velimir Jukić.
ParlaMint-BA_2010-05-12-0.u34893	Mr. Chairman, colleagues and colleagues, esteemed guests, I will brief on the report on the work. In fact, I had a need to hear some clarifications because we are here, reading this paper report that I must first praise, because it was done methodologically and and contentally quite correctly and richly and with a lot of data; some of this data is such, in my assessment, that it is necessary to comment on them a little bit, and I would ask for some answers. 82 Here is, for example, why in the last year or the last two years there has been a significant drop in revenue from transit or transmission of electricity through our transmission network and here it is said that when it was the most in 2007, it was 12,432 million KM, and in the last year it was only 4 million KM, so I wonder if these are some objective and subjective circumstances. They're objective that there really was a need for transporting smaller, and they're subjective that someone from some of our weaknesses bypassed us in that sense, so don't use our capacities, page 9. And then, the other question is the question, and that's the loss. Here there are very nice tables and charts that depict this vividly, so, let's say, the losses of recent years have been increased and production has been reduced. So it was to be expected, it was wanted to be the other way around, so the production is increasing, which is the desire of all of us, and at the same time the losses are shrinking, that it's simply working to eliminate these losses through a more quality network, through a more rational use of the one available, etc. Here, these are some questions and also another question, and here I have not seen an attempt to answer it, and that is the fact that at the same time in BiH electricity imports other entities are exporting it. Has an analysis of economic effects been done to benefit and damage from such a type of work? First of all, this type of work is not prohibited, but according to some calculations and calculations, people who do little doing it (I do not do it but in their own words and their stories) are actually losing BiH as a community. I don't know if it makes sense for us to have such uncoordinated policies, that we have to do one job, another job, from the same business, instead of mutual exchange and purchase, in our country that we have to make losses. Here, that's my three questions. Really here, I say, there's a lot of information, but I wouldn't really be longer. Here, on these three questions or four I'd like to answer. Thank you.
ParlaMint-BA_2010-05-12-0.u34894	I suggest we listen to everything, and then we'll end up. So, Branko Dokić. Here you go.
ParlaMint-BA_2010-05-12-0.u34895	Thank you, Mr. Chairman. I had a need, on behalf of the Commission, to say just a few sentences. You have heard from this report that their report has been accepted unanimously, and I would add that not only has it been accepted unanimously but that report on the Commission has been commended and it has been said that this is an example of how others should be doing the reports. There is professionally indicated both what they did and what they did not do. I am not their lawyer, they are here ready to answer many questions, as many of the members of the Commission have answered many questions, because the members of this commission were interested in this area that is very important to BiH. It should not be mentioned and pointed out that there should be a BiH development stand in the field of electricity, and in this context we have had a number of questions and we have received very professional answers. But here, let me be their lawyer for a while. One question is whether we like the data here or not. It is not, in most ways, their responsibility or their jurisdiction. So they've brought out the data here the way that they didn't contribute, it's not them, how can I say, guilty of being like that. After all, there are two representatives present who will give adequate answers. 83 Thank you. I once again say that this is an example of what others might be, both by literacy and content.
ParlaMint-BA_2010-05-12-0.u34896	Husein Nanić.
ParlaMint-BA_2010-05-12-0.u34897	I thank you, Chairman. I certainly join those who praise this report, the way, the methodology and all that has been done and the leadership in this agency shows an enviable advance in both the content itself and this area in which it works, so I join those who want to praise it, to point out. What I wanted to point out was three things. It is clear from this report that in BiH, revenues in the field of electricity are 1.7 billion and 150 million gains and that this is their best business result in six decades behind us. A positive story that is not heard in BiH, and a very positive story in this area! The next data that is not in this document is that the consumption of electricity in BiH has reached pre-war levels. So we really hear one positive news, although the structure is a little bit different, but not much different. What I want to say here about two other things is that in 2007, the term of office of one of the members of this committee has expired, which is three years. And, there is an explanation here that in the procedure of the Government of the Republic of Slovenia, the National Assembly of the Republic of Slovenia is this procedure at the time of writing this report, and it was written in December, six months before, means – whether there are movements in terms of the appointment of a new member of this commission, because I believe that... here we are again coming to an institution that is not in full capacity and where members do not have a mandate, a valid mandate that they should act. And the next thing is, I set it up on this commission, and I'd like it to be explained a little bit more in detail – this affair in the Republic of Croatia that has appeared, and as far as trade in electricity with BiH is concerned. Croatia Elektroprivreda,... Aluminium Mostar, and the Croatian government's announcement that the cheaper electricity sold to BiH's company, which is owned by the state, or the Federation of BiH, will turn that stake somewhere around 150 million marks into a ownership stake in a company where it is the majority owner of the BiH state. I really, here with my modest knowledge from this area, want to ask if there is any or no role of the State Regulatory Agency for Electricity, since such a similar agency, or agency that deals with these affairs in the Republic of Croatia, has been brought into one, so to say, suspicious action related to electricity trade, and I would like to hear... whether there is jurisdiction of the State Regulatory Agency for Electricity on these issues. And the rest, I certainly want to support this report and the way the Commission has so far.
ParlaMint-BA_2010-05-12-0.u34898	Mehmed Suljkanović.
ParlaMint-BA_2010-05-12-0.u34899	Dear Chairman, esteemed colleagues and colleagues, as a member of the Transport and Communications Commission, I supported this report and I must stress that this report coming from the Derk here for the fourth year is indeed an example of how reports should be made, as well as 84 examples of the very responsible relationship of members, because we have each time on this committee had a complete team present to us at all times to answer the questions we have asked. Also, I wouldn't want to be in the role of the attorney of the gentlemen sitting here who will answer the questions that have been asked. I'd just like to say that... there was one question on this committee about the problems that arise in the implementation of their functions in the Brcko District. And there we got one answer that Derk has the capacity, has the instrumentation to carry out its regulatory function, it's just a matter of providing political will for it. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-BA_2010-05-12-0.u34900	We still have a registered MP, Remzija Kadrić. Here you go.
ParlaMint-BA_2010-05-12-0.u34901	Mr. Chairman, thank you. Just briefly to join this issue Velimir Jukić has asked these people, since they are present, how much they are able to answer, and I think they are, when it comes to the operations of Elektroprenos BiH. In this opening part, they say something about the business problem of this company, and it is said, among other things,: "In 2009 there was accumulated disagreement between the Board of Administration and the Management Board of Elektroprenos BiH Banja Luka, which threatened to become a serious obstacle to the effective management of the system and the management of the single transmission network of BiH." So let us explain a little bit more, when it comes to, very briefly, what the state of things is in this Electrotransmission of BiH, how things work out there and give us a brief explanation.
ParlaMint-BA_2010-05-12-0.u34902	Thank you. Reports are no more, I'm closing the hearing. Mr. Pejić or Mr. Salkić, please agree, so one on behalf of the Regulatory Commission, I hope you have noted these questions, or requests for further information. Here you go.
ParlaMint-BA_2010-05-12-0.u34903	Derk
ParlaMint-BA_2010-05-12-0.u34904	Dear Chairman, honourable MPs, first and foremost to welcome you on behalf of this committee. Mr. Chairman, Mr. Dokić, who is the chairman of this mandate, for health reasons he is absent today, was at a meeting of this committee, but he is on board today, so he is not here, so Mr. Pejić and I were tasked with answering any questions and perhaps giving some clarifications. Before I give concrete answers, and I will try to be very brief, to give a few more observations to you, that is, from this report. You have probably noticed that there are no comparisons in this report of electricity prices for final customers in BiH and Europe, i.e. in the environment. This is for the simple reason that in EUROSTAT in the EU, the methodology for the management of statistical data has changed. We're in the preparation and reorganization phase, so we're probably 85 of this year, or, and next year, we're going to be in a position to follow that methodology, and then we're going to go out with those indicators again. For your information, we are still somewhere down at the bottom, so we have about the cheapest electricity besides maybe Serbia, possibly Macedonia, with most of the cheap energy being used for households and a little less for industry. Next thing you know, we've completed the tariff procedure that we started last year and the price, or the tariffs of transmission, will not increase, the system operator for some small value, so we've kept that level at the present level. And a little comment, I think Mr. Nanić already said, the question of achieving these indicators in the entire sector last year. Not to repeat what's said, I have to say that it's the success of all the entities that work in this system, and that doesn't mean that it couldn't be done anymore. There were a lot of factors that contributed to this, among other things, good hydrology up to half a year, a good price on the international market, so I'm going to comment a little on the issues asked, but in any case, there's also a feeling of improvement when it comes to management work. This is not our task to comment on, but it can be estimated the decline of losses, especially in distribution it has been recorded, although in certain distributions it is significantly greater than it should be. And what is important for the events that took place in Europe sometime last year is the adopted third package, the Energy Package, which will put certain tasks ahead of us, not only in front of this commission, but above all in front of the institutions of the government, means the Council of Ministers and this Parliament, that all these directives and all these new documents be translated into certain legal and sublegal acts and implemented, both in the entity commissions and in any case in the energy sector entities. Now, this is something I wanted to mention when certain questions were asked. The issue of revenue from the transit of electricity. There's been a few years in Europe, it's been called... a mechanism through... a mechanism, now it's... a mechanism. Every year, it improves, changes, and a somewhat financial result is conditioned by these changes and the reckoning that is being carried out throughout Europe. So, the calculation is done taking into account the transit that takes place in all EU countries plus these countries of the energy community, means the countries of the Western Balkans. So in any case, this is not the result of poor work or any of the problems that are happening in BiH, but is a reflection of the calculations that talk about physical flows across BiH territory. We have some estimates for this year, but in any case the revenues are slightly smaller than they were in the earlier period because the methodology is also different. I must tell you that there are hundreds of millions of euros in play and that these big countries are very interested in these mechanisms because they have certain countries and expenditures that move up to 100 million euros. So it's not about the work of our electrotransmitters, our system operators, or our electricity industry. Next thing you know, when we talk about losses, if you see them carefully, we're in charge of portable losses. Those transmission losses keep moving around 300 GWh, I think they're talking 310 this year. And she yellow down the line shows that in 2009, there were little lower losses. However (you lose because yellow is 2009) They're interesting losses when it comes to distribution. Because this is where the losses move, you saw them in the '90s. were, if I'm not mistaken, I don't know, about 2%. But there are significant losses in distribution. I have to say here, not wanting to talk about the reasons why it's 86, but we have a pretty big difference when it comes to distribution losses between three power plants. I have to say that those who have a lot of losses every year have a reduction and decrease, but there are quite a lot of differences. For example, BiH's Elektroprivreda has at least losses somewhere around 9-10%, then RS Elektroprivreda or HZ HB Elektroprivreda which have slightly greater losses, but is important, I think, the trend of reducing these losses. And I have to say, most of it, at least, that difference in loss refers to commercial losses, better said, theft. The next question was import-export. Last year was, I mean, record when it came to export. But the fact aside from exports of 3,900, if I'm not mistaken, GWh was determined and imports. One part is importing this down into HZ HB's electro-priority, i.e. better say in Aluminium, because that part is imported roughly, that's the energy imported to Aluminium, and the other is the question of traders who are also importing and exporting electricity. That is the intensity of this reform to allow everyone to do so. Whether the BiH state would go better if it shuts down, if it disables trade until domestic needs are met, it is now a question of whether prices are achieved higher, probably why export prices get a higher price than those in the imports. And for those reasons, good business was part of the previous year. But in any case, the intensity is that there is a market economy and that practically in the electricity industries that have the market surpluses to sell energy and the ones that have the disadvantages to buy. In the last year, if I'm not mistaken, the balance is closed, if the Aluminium that was self-procuring is excluded,... closed from domestic resources, and this was the import-export trade of one of those same entities. Those were questions. I don't know what's going on in Croatia right now. Well, we, i.e. I am, and perhaps also colleagues, a little bit more familiar because of some history than before, it was known when Aluminium received electricity from HEP that it was a certain business arrangement and it was known and then, it was not publicly spoken..., I will not enter any political issues, but that TLM is delivered raw aluminium for a slightly lower price. It's probably where some kind of economics was found, or I don't know what kind of interest it was. As regulators, neither entity nor we have any jurisdiction, nor do I think anyone in BiH can be involved in any ugly way in this affair. Obviously all of this happened at the route of the Government of the Republic of Croatia – TLM, somewhat aluminum. When it comes to turning debt into capital, I don't even know if they count on debt. If they've set the price, it's not a debt. They paid for it. But as far as I know, the Croatian government has privatised TLM, probably won't go into... processes to enter the ownership shares of TLM which, as far as I know, has some 12% stake in Aluminium Mostar, at least that's what they say, I don't have any official data. But I think that as regulators we didn't have any role, and I don't think BiH will have any repercussion about it, except for now, it's a g p it a n's power supply of Aluminium Mostar in the future. That's it. And I still think it was a question from Mr. Kadrić – Elektroprenos. Look, we as Regulatory Commission have no jurisdiction when it comes to the work of management or management structures, because Electrotrans is a stock company, the ownership of two entities in certain proportions, if I'm not mistaken, 58:42, I'm not sure what the ratios are. So there's a congregation, there's a board of directors, there's a board of directors. As a regulator, we have neither the possibility nor the right to interfere in these matters. My personal opinion is that these are a lot of irrational things, that transmission has a good opportunity to do good business, and when we look at financial indicators and technical ones, we do a good job and now it's doing a good job. Thank Bog, there was no problem in technical terms either, with this assessment in any case saying that the situation in transmission should be stabilised when it comes to governance to avoid any future problems when it comes to the work of the system. I don't have any or we have any new information about what's going on,...I saw yesterday in the 87 press that there is still an expression of will from the government of the entities in office, the prime ministers are in office of the assembly, working to solve these problems. I appreciate that it's got most of it stuck in some kind of human problems and some things that are out of our reach, but so far there were no big problems. I hope that the issue of company management will be resolved soon in the final transmission. And, if I'm not mistaken, last year we have about 25 million marks of profits, I don't know, in this year, probably, expected even more consumption and more electricity production in this year than in the last year, no matter what the past was good. So it's probably going to be that financial result in this year as well. So, there's no reason why they don't solve these problems and do better business. There's so much if I dropped something. Thank you.
ParlaMint-BA_2010-05-12-0.u34905	I thank the esteemed Mr Salkić, a member of the State Regulatory Commission for Electricity. We don't have any more reports, I'm closing the hearing. We're going to the 20th point, Ad. 20. Report on activities of BiH Institutions Audit Office for 2009 The Office for the Audit of BiH Institutions, in accordance with Article 6(2) of the Law on the Audit of Institutions, submitted a Report 12. 4. 2010 The relevant Committee on Finance and Budget is 15. 4. delivered an opinion stating that it had accepted the Report and proposed that it be adopted by the House. I'm opening a debate on the report. Dear Representative Sadik Bahtić.
ParlaMint-BA_2010-05-12-0.u34907	I will briefly say that the Finance and Budget Commission unanimously accepted the 2009 report on the activities of the BiH Institutions Audit Office. I also want to say, as you know, that the Commission for Finance and Budget has a steady good co-operation with the State Audit Office, that they audited 59 institutions in 2008; 28 was positive, 31 with the reserve, that the positive trend from year to year is increasing. In 2006 it was 5, 2007 it was 11, 2008 it was 28. The establishment of this institution, as you know, has led to significant improvements in financial discipline and public spending. We've always praised the work of the State Audit Office on this committee. And at these conferences and seminars that we participate in programmes, we see that in this area we have gone far beyond our countries from the environment, which is very, very positive. That's when it comes to financial audits. We had a visit to the State Audit Office the other day. They introduced us to their work. They also started working on a pilot impact review project, which is very good. They did so in the process of hiring BiH's civil servants, as there were many remarks that the employment process was taking a long time. They are now reviewing the impact of the purchase of computer equipment in BiH institutions. We think that's very good. They should strengthen their capacity to receive new auditors when it comes to impact audits. All in all, as far as our Finance and Budget Commission is concerned, I don't owe all the praises to the 2009 State Audit Office and to continue in the future as well. Thank you.
ParlaMint-BA_2010-05-12-0.u34908	Thank you. The next one was announced by Honorable Representative Momčilo Novaković.
ParlaMint-BA_2010-05-12-0.u34909	Dear colleagues and colleagues, I hope that this discussion of mine will not be interpreted as a pressure on the independence of the Office's audit work, since last time I went with some draft laws and this was treated as a pressure on labour independence. Then we discussed the position of the Office for Audition within the entire system, that is, the law, and it's also interpreted as pressure, so the debate on salaries is interpreted as pressure on the Office, so I hope this isn't now the pressure on the Office for Audition. At the last session, I asked a parliamentary question, "Why didn't the audit office move to other rooms, but stayed in the existing one for which she paid the rent?" I got an answer in this report to that question. It is said here that the Office for Auditing highly appreciates efforts aimed at finding a permanent solution to the problem of accommodation, but that what the Council of Ministers gave them is not currently responding to them. And people didn't move there. So what the Council of Ministers gave them is empty, and they're paying the rent where they are. From the answer to the parliamentary question that Mr. Živković asked, I found, today which came, in this last table, saying, 'The material and financial costs in August 2009', and now under the regular number of 33, says: 'The Office for the Audit of BiH institutions, rents 280,000, parking space 15,000, total of 295,000.' I suppose that's the conclusion with August of the month or before August of the month since it's pretty vague here. What does that material-financial cost mean in August of the month? I believe you don't think the lease is $280,000 a month and I'd like it to be explained by the chief auditor? So I guess that's for these eight months by then. This shows that the institution pays, only five institutions pay more parking space than the Office for Audit, means only five institutions at BiH level. For example, the institution pays three times as much parking space as the BiH presidency. What I also saw in this response is that last year, the audit office spent 322,498,79 marks or 11.99% on capital expenditure. I don't have an explanation here what these capital expenditures are, and I'd like the chief auditor to explain to me what these capital expenditures are. I hope the Office of Audit doesn't do what other institutions criticise. 89 I also read an amazing thing here in this report, which is that the audit office made certain savings last year because it didn't move to another space, so she couldn't accept the workers. And since she couldn't see the workers, she made savings. What do you think she moved to a place where she didn't pay rent to what savings would be? So there's a lot, I think I've said enough about some questions. Of course, I personally think that this report could be more detailed so that we could have here, because this is a report on the activities of the Office for Audition, perhaps a summary of the effects of individual auditors, their burden, etc., because I suppose the result is the need for the reception of new workers, so we might be able to compare it with other countries, with other offices within this country, with other entity offices, which, of course, we would come up with much more reliable data. I think this report should have been much more comprehensive than the one we got, that it should have been with much more information about the business of this office and, after all, there are some things that are really incomprehensible, especially when it comes to this lease of business space. I can't believe these people in the Council of Ministers are so ignorant, they don't know the thing and they're allotting the space that's unacceptable to the Office of Audit and, of course, nothing happens afterwards, that this space is empty and that the Office of Audit is still paying the rent. Thank you.
ParlaMint-BA_2010-05-12-0.u34910	Thank you. Dear Representative Sadik Bahtić, replica.
ParlaMint-BA_2010-05-12-0.u34911	I'm not a lawyer, but I still have to replicate my colleague Novaković. What he discussed, these are all fact-finding technical problems for which the State Audit Office is not responsible. They'd be the happiest to have solved their space. We're the state that needs them to provide space. This is the report on the activities of the Audit Office and they counted their activities here what they were doing. You had all the MPs here in the summary report, and I think they're doing their job very well, very well, and the problems you've been talking about don't even bear the slightest guilt. Let's settle the issue of state property so we can set up all these institutions and there won't be any of those stories.
ParlaMint-BA_2010-05-12-0.u34912	Replica, distinguished representative Momčilo Novaković.
ParlaMint-BA_2010-05-12-0.u34913	I must say I didn't ask Mr. Bahtić. He expressed his position when he spoke as chairman of the Finance and Budget Komsije and said the commission had unanimously supported that, of course, he was standing in that position and it would have been strange if it hadn't stood. A matter of state property? If we put this story in, let me put a few questions in this story, and we'll drag this thing into something completely different. I didn't say whether people were doing well or not, I just said that this report could have been 90 more comprehensive, or that what they were doing could have been more here than they were doing well, could have been more here, could have really been confirmed and argued. And on the other hand, I said, and no one can explain that the logical question of the lease and the question of these things about the lease and the question of saving is either bad here explained or unfortunately formulated or extremely unspeakable.
ParlaMint-BA_2010-05-12-0.u34914	Thank you. The next is distinguished representative Savo Erić.
ParlaMint-BA_2010-05-12-0.u34915	Here, I'd like to comment. The fact is, this audit office has done a lot of work this year. And at the Finance Commission, we were really discussing a lot of budget-related costs and analyses, and as this institution started to work, it was certain that there was more order in spending the budget. If you remember how many negative audit reports there have been, then we'll figure out how budget spending is and the question arises whether only auditors can improve this catastrophic state, means when it comes to the budget. I would agree with these shortcomings now that we return to this report concretely. So, I would agree with the great painful point of spending money on leases, and that's not necessary. There's an institution where there's extra workers and extra space. And the very space that was mentioned, I wouldn't comment on it. What I'm interested in here is employees' salaries. If we divide it by a number, it means that it's well paid and the fact that we should just see if we still need an auditor. What else bothers them in their business to improve their jobs and say that they've justified those salaries? Now I'm interested in employee fees, that's one quarter of the total salary, that's 319,500, so I'm looking for an explanation for this point. And I'm interested in capital expenditures of 320,000 KM, so what did you invest this part in and what can you prove this figure? If I now conclude that we have spent 3,187,000 for the revision, if we take effect, we will see that this report can be considered positive and therefore this institution to control others had to be impeccable, so it had to remove all the shortcomings in itself. And this institution is expected to do so. First of all, the most responsible after us are them. Since we're quite irresponsible, so it's shown time, so we expect them to be more responsible?- I'm sorry. So I would ask him to explain these capital expenditures to me: are they related to improving work and will there be effects in the coming years? Thank you.
ParlaMint-BA_2010-05-12-0.u34916	Thank you. No more reports. Here, I am taking the opportunity to welcome Mr. Milenko Šega's chief auditor, who wants to speak to Parliament. 91
ParlaMint-BA_2010-05-12-0.u34917	Mr. Chairman, ladies and gentlemen, I welcome you. Thank you for the discussion, thank you for asking questions. Let me briefly explain and answer these questions at the same time. So, the Audit Office is doing a continuous audit in the institutions of BiH of all budgetary users, all institutions, and they are already 70 for 2009. Therefore, we have a continuous statutory audit, in accordance with the Audit Act. And you were mainly discussing the activities of the Office, also continuously throughout the year, receiving reports from the Audit Office, which is the main activity of the Audit Office, where you were able to see through the audit reports for these institutions and to see what these efforts are and what are the results that the Audit Office achieves by revising these institutions, and at the same time mirrored through the improvement and increase of this financial discipline. As far as the Office's Activity Report is concerned, it is in a classical sense something different, just for these reasons, let's say, we had a preliminary report on the work of the Derk, or some other institutions, the Prosecutor's Office of BiH, where you only once a year through that overall report have insight into the state of these institutions. However, when it comes to the Office for Auditing, you are constantly at your disposal information on the activities of the Office. The asked question relating to the lease of business space and used by the Office of Audit, I think that Mr. Novaković asked the question as a parliamentary question, and we have prepared that answer in accordance with the law and will get it in writing, and... I have signed that answer and I think it should have already arrived, but here, while I am here, to say, to cut short the story about it, that practically the Office for Auditing the business space that the Council of Ministers received in the new building, there on the islands, is practically not enough, it cannot physically fit 53 people in those squares. So, the Audit Office is given 19 rooms. Of these 19 rooms, one room is for the server room, one room is for the archives, so 17 offices can't physically, just these people can't stop. This area by squares seems to have enough of it, but the outer gauges of that space are such that it simply can't be functional or used and we can't practically stop physically. Namely, that space is likely for something else, perhaps for some mall, and it is in the meantime reorientated to offices. So that's the only reason. We need 30 to 35 offices in order to get settled, and given the office's development, we need 30 to 35 offices in order to function uninterrupted. We are currently located at a location in Pofalići, it is the Energoinvesta building on XIII. The floor and there are paying for the rent of a business space somewhere around 20 marks per square, which is about 16.5 - 17,000 at the monthly level. That's the price. I just think that there are higher and lower prices, and we think that we did well with this price. As for the clarifications of some others regarding what Mr. Erić said and Mr. Novaković also, regarding this capital investment, it is that the Audit Office has made the purchase of passenger cars by system old for a new one, which was given 200,000 marks for three vehicles, and old vehicles have been sold somewhere for 130,000 marks. So the difference is 70,000 marks. And the rest is spent on equipment, information equipment, etc., servers, laptops, computers. So these are your amounts. 92 Here, that's what I have no intention of doing. So, the main activity report of the Office has been reviewed through the activities that you have been considering through the report on the audit carried out so that I think you can see through it as much as possible what the activities of the Office are. This remains in the reports, it's about international activities, about the Co-ordination Committee, so these are activities that aren't that important. And the most significant activities are these through the review report. That's it, thank you.
ParlaMint-BA_2010-05-12-0.u34918	I would like to thank the esteemed Chief Audit Office Auditor, Mr. Milenko Šega. No more reports, closing the hearing. Moving to the 21st point of the agenda: Ad. 21. Report on the work of the BiH Export and Credit Agency 2009 Management Board The Management Board of the Export-Credit Agency of BiH, in accordance with Article 14(3) of the Law establishing the Export-Credit Agency, provided the 2009 Work Report. The opinion was delivered by the Commission for Foreign Trade and Customs 11. 5th and suggests that the House adopt the same report. I'm opening a debate on the report. There are no reports, I'm closing the hearing.
ParlaMint-BA_2010-05-12-0.u34920	No microphone turned on
ParlaMint-BA_2010-05-12-0.u34921	I'm sorry, it wasn't registered. Dear Representative Bajazit Jašarević.
ParlaMint-BA_2010-05-12-0.u34922	Dear Mr. Chairman, ladies and gentlemen, I understand the committee's proposal to propose to the House that we accept these reports on the work of the Export Credit Agency Management Board, but I would like to refer to certain things written in this report. I think this report was usually modeled earlier in the year when we didn't have an economic crisis and the Agency didn't have any problems that she presented in this report. Now there has been a disturbance that has led the Agency into a very unpleasant position, and that position is not clearly spoken of. So, I don't know if there's anyone here present, but there's obviously a question of the financial capacity of this agency in a situation where an increasing number of clients are not fulfilling their obligations to this agency. This is all stated in the report of the 93 audit houses, and it is not clear why the Governing Board failed to refer to the auditor’s report in any of its words, although it is obvious that the auditor’s house has also written this report vaguely. So she absolutely avoided quantifying the risks the Agency faces in the year of the major crisis. In the same way as the audit board did and the text shows that most of the Agency's activities are reduced to a minimum and almost stopped, because we have a situation that the Agency's clients can't repay their obligations because of the economic crisis. And I think it was much more important to look at the Governing Board, along with the Agency's management, how to behave in this emerging situation, instead of asking the Council of Ministers to increase the capacity of the Agency by asking for permission on behalf of and on behalf of the State. It's not possible to think. So that's a good idea, but for such an idea, you need a partner with a higher degree of responsibility. It is not possible to have a banking system that has reduced all its obligations due to the risk of the economic crisis and that we have our agency which has simply used too many times to justify how for justified reasons clients are in a difficult economic situation, that is quite clear. But the role of the Agency is to keep the Agency apart from the role and to help the economy by giving these products to the Agency. Of course, there is probably no question of support for this report, but I think the Agency's management and the Management Board have problems that they haven't solved, which they haven't spoken about openly, and which they won't solve unless, on the basis of this debate today, no matter how long it lasts, they sit down and tell themselves what they need to do and the next reports for the next year, so for this one that's going on, they don't get much more convincing. If it's not more convincing, it'll come to the question of whether the Agency can survive at all. Finally, slightly less important but not irrelevant, it is not clearly explained enough how any company can be guaranteed at 3,300,000 euros if the client's estimated value is 2,200,000 euros with all that is stated there. Therefore, the image of that client can be presented in two to three lines if the situation is to be exposed. My question, if an answer is given, is: has the procedure been carried out as usual with each of the clients? ... If not answered, it is not important, but I think, if access to clients is not changed, if the Agency does not protect itself that everyone will eventually remain in a better position than the Agency, which should indeed increase its role and its financial capacity in the future. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-BA_2010-05-12-0.u34923	Thank you. The next is Honorable Representative Halid Genjac.
ParlaMint-BA_2010-05-12-0.u34924	Thank you. Of course, I, too, think that this report is made up of technology and a method that allows a large amount of insight into the Agency's work. However, I would like to join this assessment that the problem that has arisen: either the Agency did not adequately address this problem, or they are not present in this report, indicates that the Agency has an answer to these questions, which will probably all appear in a more acute and more acute form. In fact, we have a fact that when we look at this final balance, we see that last year the Agency was doing business with a loss of 2,893,000 KM. That is, for the first time such a huge loss and generally for the first time since the loss was earlier in 2006 94 lower and the entire time the Agency was doing business with a positive state. And here it was explained what happened to this guarantee that was given. I think we should get an answer in which procedure and in what way this guarantee is given and how in similar situations the Agency will carry in the future and what this means for the Agency. What's the way out of this state? I think you should answer that question. And the next thing you know about loan reprogramming. We see about 6,000,000 being reprogrammed somewhere. These reprogramming tendencies will be and demands will be growing and higher. How will the Agency respond to these requirements and how will they deal with this situation? I think it would be good for the Agency's director to give us an answer to these questions.
ParlaMint-BA_2010-05-12-0.u34925	Thank you. The next is a respected representative of Azra Hadžiahmetović.
ParlaMint-BA_2010-05-12-0.u34926	Thank you. Here, I'd like to visit my colleagues and colleagues, and I'd like to make a special visit to the previous debates that we have here a report on the work of the Management Board, and it's not a report on the Agency's work. And knowing quite accidentally the director of this agency and her conscience towards work, if today were the agenda report on the Agency's work, she'd probably be sitting here today. And here, I'm asking if we have anyone here from the board of directors whose report is ahead of us, what we're discussing. Because it's part of the agenda report on the work of the board of directors. I'm asking this not by chance, because we have a report on the work of the Management Board that was delivered to us on 1.5 pages. From that point of view, the Management Board adopted a Regulation on disciplinary liability and a Regulation on the conditions of use of official vehicles. Somebody try to correct me if there's anything more. In the field of current business, they gave consent, adopted reports, etc. about the agency itself. And so far discussions, with full respect for their content, focused more on the work of the Agency, not the work of the Management Board. And I think we here with this board of directors can have a potential problem. And I therefore propose that this report be returned to the Management Board, to postpone a statement on the Management Board's work report until there is at least one member of the Management Board in this Chamber to provide some answers to these MPs' questions. We can talk about the Agency, whether she was doing well, not doing well, etc. But, I remind you, there is a report on the work of the Management Board of the Export Credit Agency on the agenda.
ParlaMint-BA_2010-05-12-0.u34927	Thank you. I have to say I have no record of any members of the Agency's Management Board. So, here's none of the board members. I am obliged to give immediately before continuing the debate to declare the proposal of the distinguished representative Azra Hadžiahmetović: whether we will continue the debate with the fact that we do not have a present applicant, so to speak, i.e. the applicant of this report. 95 means I'm making a statement. Who's in favour of continuing the debate despite the fact that we don't have a single board member? Voting "yes" will mean continuing, voting "against" will mean delaying the debate. Please prepare to vote. So by voting "yes," you're giving approval to continue the debate, regardless of which we don't have any board members, by voting differently, you're not up for it. Please prepare. We're waiting for technical services. We're moving on to a manual statement. I think that without counting, we can find out that dom has decided to stop the debate because we don't have a proposing. We will postpone the debate for one of the next sessions, or for the next session. Moving to the next item of the agenda: Ad. 22. Report on the work of the Independent Committee as an independent body of police structure in BiH for 2009 and Plan of work of the Independent Committee as an independent body of police structure in BiH for 2010 The Independent Committee submitted the 2009 Work Report and the 2010 Work Plan in accordance with Article 7(1)(b) and (e) of the Law on Independent Police Structure Supervisory Authorities. The Defence and Security Committee delivered an opinion on these materials 5. Five this year and he's proposing to the House to adopt them. I'm opening a debate on the report on work and the Work Plan. The Honorable First Vice-President, Mr. Beriz Belkić, called.
ParlaMint-BA_2010-05-12-0.u34929	Here, I have no intention of taking a lot of time, I see that there are no people (there are no people, excellent), so starting with the fact that our committee, which I am looking forward to, unanimously supported and proposed adopting the Labour and Acceptance Report and the Work Plan for 2010, I only want a few, so to speak, suggestions and hope that they will be of benefit, and will not affect our relationship with these two documents, so we will support them. So, suggestions as for all institutions: the time of consideration. We are considering this report in May in three months from 2009, so come on, let's say that the man swallows it, but the Work Plan we are considering in the fifth month, the Work Plan for 2010, with the fact that certain activities have already been carried out, such as the election of some directors, etc. and planned in February. So we can only realize that it's realized. So, a suggestion to try to get there, and it's for you. Also, the suggestion that in both of these documents I noticed, when it comes to the report in Chapter 3, so where are you talking about jurisdiction, and in Chapter 1. when you talk about this plan, so in Chapter 1. 96 The plan is like an introduction and you repeat on two occasions jurisdiction, jurisdiction. There's no need, so there's really no need, especially when it comes to this plan. It was enough to remind you of our jurisdiction in the Work Report, you do not need to put the same text in two places. As far as this report is concerned, I agree that it wasn't really realistic to expect something else to be done in those three months and especially to be done except for the constitution, the making of rules, etc., so I understand that. But we have to face the fact that we have practice, so the law was passed in 2008, this decision to set up a committee, the appointment was in seventh 2009, so, and this committee began to work practically in September. So, since 2008 the law, so this decision, so very, very, very, very long. And a suggestion when it comes to the Work Plan: we practically have a situation that in this work plan is much more seriously planned communication and activity related to executive power, and only in one place we have where we talk about co-operation with our... competent parliamentary commission. You are the body of this House. So I suggest, no matter what you don't have in this plan, that you still work through this position that you put in place to cooperate with our Joint Supervisory Commission, etc. Yes, however, place the accent that is most important to you to cooperate with this body is practically whose body it is. Here, it's a couple of these suggestions, I hope you'll benefit and, of course, we'll support here's the report on the work and work plan as I said.
ParlaMint-BA_2010-05-12-0.u34930	Thank you. The next is Honourable representative Selim Bešlagić.
ParlaMint-BA_2010-05-12-0.u34931	Dear Chairman, colleagues and colleagues, I am a member of the Commission and we have accepted this report. And on this committee, I've been discussing exactly what Mr. Belkić just said. We can say that in three months and you can't expect anything else. But I suggest the same as a suggestion, please enter one part of this committee's jurisdiction, meaning... the fourth row: 'The BiH Police Body Manager'... and then'records the time-out record of the term of office with election functions and announces a public competition'. What's this about? It's just that we have just cases of some functions running out, no competitions being announced, and then we have some problems behind it. I think you, as an independent commission, are exactly in this area keeping that record and, simply, when that record expires, then a competition is being called for in this... I think that's a good suggestion. With all this, I'm saying that the report is what it is, I accept it.
ParlaMint-BA_2010-05-12-0.u34932	Thank you. No more reports, closing the hearing. Moving to the 23rd point of the agenda: 97 Ad. 23. Report on the work of the Interim Commission for the Preparation of the Bill on Census, Households and Apartments in BiH 2011 The temporary commission is 30. 4. submitted a report on the work from which it appears that this commission does not agree with the full text of this bill. In addition, you have also received a basic bill (proposer: Council of Ministers), with amendments and additions of agreed articles. I'm opening a debate on this report. Dear Representative Branko Dokić, chairman of the Interim Commission.
ParlaMint-BA_2010-05-12-0.u34934	Thank you, Mr. Chairman. You will allow me to... in the capacity of the chairman of this committee, so on behalf of the Interim Commission who authorised me to file an oral report on our work, say a few sentences with a few more notes. I won't owe you much for the simple reason you got this report in writing. You have also received a report on the way of work and on what we have decided and how we have decided on this report in which it stands and on what basis we have decided. And beyond that... you have one material that could represent, how can I say, 'The Census of Population, Households and Apartments in BiH 2011', with a note of what was adopted in this material and what was not adopted. From this you could conclude and see that we did not agree essentially on about two members. It's a sixth-grader who talks about what's being written. And here I have to say that for this member, we had a two-thirds majority of the present members of this committee. You have seen according to the Rules of Procedure as we have decided, but that within that two-thirds majority, we did not have a single member of this commission from the Bosniak people who supported this... member for reasons you will probably hear later. And we have an unconformed Article 16 where there is an open question of where the census data will be collected. In that original text of the Council of Ministers which was the starting point for our work, it was said that Banja Luka, during the work of this commission there were proposals for it to be Sarajevo, we voted and none of these two proposals received a two-thirds majority. So if you start from that fact, only this member, or this position of this member, did not have a two-thirds majority, and Article 6 in our Rules of Procedure was not agreed, it was not adopted. If, you will now allow me to comment on what we have come to in accordance with both the latest responses, or the letters we have received from Brussels these days. Surely you registered one open letter to the Bosnian Herzegovina public signed by Pjer Mireli and Piter Everes, one director for the Western Balkans in the European Commission's Directorate-General for Enlargement, and the other director in the Directorate for Foreign Cooperation, Communications and Key Indicators in EUROSTAT. By the way, Mr. Piter had one presentation here in this same room of EUROSTAT standards and I think it was an excellent opportunity for us who were on that committee to hear what mandatory criteria are, what are recommendations, what is it that this law should contain, what should not contain. And through the questions we have received a series of useful answers and based on that I must say that we have done this material that was done to this extent to which it was done. 98 You have the latest letter we found on our tables this morning and it was signed by the highest authorities in the European Commission. I hope all these letters are taken very, very seriously. If you take into account the fact that these are written in one diplomatic form, then I would ask each of us MPs to give a good look, to see what the weight of these messages are sent... to these letters. It is a matter of individuality now, and I would ask you that when I say the matter to us individuals, believe that 42 MPs here are responsible whether we will comply with these very well-intentioned recommendations to do what is a commitment to the state and what will be a benefit to the state or not. So I say, we should think carefully about how we're going to read these messages, if we're going to read them to make excuses not to come to a solution, or if we're going to read them for excuses to come to a solution. ... One way or another, these messages can be read. I would really like and appeal to each of us individually to read these messages in terms of seeking a solution... to come to a BiH-level law and to make a census for the entire BiH population next year. Because that's the only way we're gonna benefit from that expensive job that's ahead of us. When you take all this into account, I must point out one more thing, that in this draft of this material, as it is, things have been done in accordance with EUROSTAT and mandatory and those optional recommendations. And I have to point out, here by my assessment, there is a member here who is not a matter of this law, (I have to be honest because I'm a little bit criticized for accepting that member, and that is why I want to make a very honest and open comment on it), and that is Article 41a). We are here in this material those members that have been supplemented by a), b, in order to make it easier for you to follow the original text and what has been completed and amended in our work, which says: 'Application of data on the 1991 census will also be valid after the completion of this list of authorities at BiH level until full BiH membership in the EU'. The fact that this matter isn't a matter of this law, it's clear to all of us, and that's what we got from Mr. Piter Evers, when he had a presentation here, but the fact that this is and one compromise to get to this law, a compromise that, I'm convinced, will be no harm to anyone. I must say that four members of this committee were against this member, but not because... at the expense of the RS, whether the Federation, or to the harm of this or that people, but simply for principled reasons, believing that this matter was not the subject of this matter and suggesting that it be the subject of some other law. So if this is a matter of compromise and respect and the fact of Bosnian Herzegovina's specificity, then I have accepted, well, to be the victim of accepting it to be a compromise to pass the proposal. I have to give you a note and the following: that in entity constitutions this issue is regulated by saying that the basis for the distribution of power at these local levels or entity levels will also be '91. years until the full implementation of Annex VII of the Dayton Peace Agreement. For the same reasons as we would interpret that this article is not a matter of this law, then we could say that even these members of the Constitution are not a constitutional category. But it was also at the time, when it was adopted, treated as a specificity of BiH. I am convinced that this will be the last census law if we adopt it, which will contain one of these clauses, and that the need for this will, quite certainly, be overcome in the next census period. I wouldn't want to suggest anything to Dom after this story, and that's what we've come to the conclusion. And I want to say once again that we asked to submit this report to you for the simple reason that our mandate has expired. So, as serious people on this committee, we respected the fact that our mandate was defined for 30 days and that in 30 days we submitted the report. We filed the report, the kind we could have made. We have estimated that the further work of 99 could possibly be counterproductive, so that someone who does not want to pass the law could argue: here is the Interim Commission out of office, has broken the deadline and we do not accept what she agreed to her job on. And here, in my personal name, I would like to say that I would like this home to find a solution to eventually come to what would be a compromise for everyone in BiH who would then allow the list to be completed in 2011. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-BA_2010-05-12-0.u34935	Thank you. The following is reported by the esteemed representative Rifat Dolić.
ParlaMint-BA_2010-05-12-0.u34936	Gentlemen Chairman, colleagues and colleagues, I would like first of all to say that today's census is also a civil question, because it is simply unimaginable today in the 21st century that one member of the UN and the Security Council and the EU's predecessor has no decent and reliable data on the number of residents and other data on their citizens in accordance with international standards. We are first discreet and pragmatic and now clear from the international community that more and more, it is increasingly said that BiH cannot count without a census to be taken seriously in the EU accession process. The last and direct message of this kind is here on our desk and was sent a few days ago by two EU commissioners, Oli Ren and Štefan File. In a normal country, these warnings would cause, as communist comrades would sometimes say, differentiation among those who are responsible, and we simply don't give a shit about anyone's head, except unfortunately for that and how the heads of the citizens of this country will hurt. I was a member of the Interim Commission who was supposed to prepare the "Proposal Law on Census" and I can speak plainly and testify that no commission, and the commission's special leadership so far have come more seriously and systematically to carry out the task. Co-operation has also been shown in the alignment of disputed solutions and at the end of the work of this commission, all the efforts I have made seem to be brought down by the lack of agreement of about two, or conditionally three, or two, or conditionally three solutions: around the place of processing and control of the data of the ethnocultural statement, and conditional on the list of diaspora. The Commission has done its job correctly and responsibly in my view, although it has not fully carried out its task. I think at this time it would be irresponsible for the citizens of this country to allow themselves a memorial and miss another census. I wouldn't even want to think about what treatment BiH would be given, to say, with full right. At this point, given all the coincidences that would be waiting for us, if we don't quickly bring 'The Census Law', there are clearly two possibilities. First, to make the commission mandatory again and further agree on the remaining two or three disputed solutions, and to come up with a harmonised bill and release it into parliamentary procedure within 15 days. Another solution or possibility, that this home should accept the Interim Commission's report and give a 15-day deadline to the Council of Ministers to make a new draft legislation on the census and put it 100 in the parliamentary procedure as well. In both variants, it would be of course the most rational to come up with harmonised proposals and to pass the law by emergency procedure. I also think that one variant of this home must therefore urgently propose a new census law regardless of whether it is a harmonised or unconformed proposal. If the proposal for a census law is adopted in the Parliamentary Assembly by both homes, we have done business, not five to twelve, but in the last seconds of the extensions. If the proposal for a census law is not adopted by chance, then it must be made clear who is responsible and whose back will be the burden of such an act. I think there's been a consensus on the draft law on the list so close that it would be a shame and a shame to even go further on about it. For this reason, and I urge all of us to take this final step and remove another obstacle on the European path and to at least refresh the general environment in BiH when it comes to BiH's progress on the European path. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-BA_2010-05-12-0.u34937	Thank you. The next is Honorable Representative Martin Raguž.
ParlaMint-BA_2010-05-12-0.u34938	Thank you. Since the predecessors have already said a lot of things, I'm going to try really rationalize what I should have said. First, to say that the Chairman of the Interim Commission, Mr Dokić, said everything about the work of this committee and gave one comprehensively and, I would say, a correct report and would not return to that part, and what Mr Dolić was saying about the seriousness of the situation and the importance of the adoption of this law, that I also do not repeat. I would suggest the following, what I said yesterday at the Extended College, so there's no reasonable reason why this country doesn't have a list next year. That's the opinion of the party I belong to personally as an agent. Secondly, I did everything together with the Commission's College to come up with a solution, working on it, showing willingness to compromise, as others have shown. I also have to be correct, and there are two other questions that, if we don't have hidden political intentions, there's no reason why we shouldn't solve it. So where will the data entry be done? Is that an important question that we don't have the law? And the other thing, if volunteering is about ethnic, religious, and religious belongings, then can this information be used as relevant for any other measurement. It can't, I mean, just by the fact that we agreed to that solution and made... And the third thing, the majority defined by the Interim Commission's Rules of Procedure has accepted this amendment, which I have proposed: that existing data be used until entry, for BiH level (because entity constitutions are different for entities)... BiH is fully EU membership, which relaxes the overall situation on the issue. There, that's our thing. But what is it? We have political projects that don't want to make that conclusion and leave this country unlisted, bring it under direct sanctions, some things we can talk about, this is about direct sanctions, because it's clearly said by people who are responsible for the stabilisation and accession process being revised and slowed down. That's the first thing. The second thing is that the funds allocated to the countries at that stage of integration towards the EU will be blocked for BiH. And in a country where we struggle to get one tranche of a stand-by arrangement with the IMF and see what happens on the streets, etc. So we have a situation to ignore the fact that 200 to 300m euros can be made available to this country tomorrow. And the third thing, what is said, can any serious policy be conducted after two decades through which this country, its people, cataclysmsm, shifts in all segments, can any strategy be formulated in any important social area? I think that's enough reason to say: You gentlemen have done your job, you've led to this report, but now we're giving a mandate to either this group or some other group of people to agree to the next session of these two articles and put them on the table by system, take or leave, and finally do something that is outside the field of day policy and cheap political points in the election campaign. I think it's possible and that's the proposal I answered. Thank you.
ParlaMint-BA_2010-05-12-0.u34939	Thank you. Next is Honorable Representative Mirko Okolić.
ParlaMint-BA_2010-05-12-0.u34940	Thank you, Mr. Chairman. If we take seriously what is said about Mr. Martin Raguž that the opposition is in position, then we will conclude that this report by this commission is the only thing the opposition has said today, I see, there may be more reports. But, well, someone's probably gonna take care of it and take some kind of lesson. I answered, and I'm going to say my position very briefly, and that's: there's no need to talk at all about the importance of this Census Bill, we all know it, and we all know it, and there are minors and birds on the branch that actually fly past some kind of public information, they probably have so much left in their heads. We see what sanctions are in terms of material and financial expenditure towards BiH, in the direct sense of not obtaining funds from pre-accession and access funds, then which are sanctions in... indirect consequences, it is that we will probably have less interest in our economy, our market and vice versa, for our products, etc., because that is how we are given knowledge. Now look at this letter saying that we haven't agreed on three things that are true, because this commission has really put a lot of effort into trying to agree on these three things as well. I can only say the same thing as Mr. Martin Raguž, there is no reason not to pass this census law, etc., as it is already called to shorten. And finally let me say that he doesn't have the right to play with this law, because there's a chance that he can be made. And if we don't play and we don't want to give another chance, I'm going to support Mr. Martin Raguž's proposal in the form that he gave, only if someone else is modifying it, it's okay, and that at today's session of this house we finally or at least confirm it, so let's give this one another chance, or let's say these differences that come down in these three points, or simply today we say that there's nothing left of it. Of course it's my wish to give you another chance. 102 Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-BA_2010-05-12-0.u34941	Thank you. The following is Commissioner Milica Marković.
ParlaMint-BA_2010-05-12-0.u34942	Thank you, Mr. Chairman. I answered the word for being a member of this committee and I need to say a few things about this report. First, let me say that it is true that this commission has been working and has put forth a great deal of effort and effort and time to try to come up with some common formulated 'Proposal of the Census Bill'. But as you can see from the report, it wasn't possible and it wasn't done, so today we don't have a bill of law as a result of this work. I would like to say this: that the predecessors who spoke, it seems to me, that the reasons they stated, that is, when they said what remained controversial and what could not agree, were that they were speaking quite individually. Individually in the sense that they are personally trying, to say, to present that they are personally responsible for whether something was supported or not. I did not realize that I was personally in charge there as an individual to support or not to give, but to be in charge, and so I was appointed, that is, we are all appointed the same from the political parties that we belong to and the clubs of MPs. So now I want to say what is what is controversial about the SNSD and why I could not support certain proposals, that is, in the end not a joint proposal of this law. It came out here and it was said that the other two were supposed to be key things that were as controversial as they were. It is a place of data processing, that member in the law and, secondly, whether it is relevant to the statement on ethnocultural issues, so a statement on a religious, national and linguistic basis. And of course, there was another thing that was set up, and these two that I cited, and this third one -- the question when will the results of that list start to apply. Is this 2014, when the results of the list to be worked in all European countries in 2011, means the use of their data in their countries will be from 2014. It was also the SNSD proposal, we had here in the proposal to make it from the moment BiH became a full member of the EU. So, and it remained controversial, although some kind of vote came up with this proposal to be from the moment BiH joins the EU. For SNSD, there were three key things about this law and when we spoke, when we discussed the law proposed by the Council of Ministers, the first thing – it was a statement on ethnocultural issues, a statement on a religious, national and linguistic basis! And right now, let me say that this committee has come to terms with it very quickly and has accepted that these components enter the member... and are subject to a plea, of course, optional. Those who wish will be made known, and those who do not wish will not be made clear. The other thing that was relevant, or relevant to SNSD in relation to this law, is who will be the subject of the list. So, what categories of population will be the subject of the census? In the bill of law that we had from the Council of Ministers, which the SNSD then supported, it was that the subject of the census... could only be a resident population. So, the population that has... a permanent stay in BiH for more than 12 months. The commission also suggested that BiH citizens 103 living in the diaspora, who have been absent for more than 12 months from BiH. I'm in front of the SNSD, which means I spoke on behalf of the club, we accepted that compromise, so the subject of the census is both resident and non-resident, and that's where we agreed. The third thing that remained questionable and which was not supported, I put an amendment to it, so what would be the basis for the ethnic calculation of the structure of society. So who will represent, which number of these two categories of population will be used as the basis for ethnic calculation of the structure of society. The SNSD proposal was to be just the number of censused residents, these others to be written, to make statistics and records as many citizens as we have in the diaspora, but the SNSD proposal and my proposal on this commission was to make it just the number of censused residents. This was not accepted on the Interim Commission and for this reason I could not support other proposals either, or we could not come up with a harmonised proposal for a new census law. Since these three key things are very important for the SNSD, I said that the first one was agreed, that the second one was agreed as a compromise, this third one was not in line, so on these things where the data will be processed; when these results of the 2014 census, as far as I know and how much I followed, I was at all the sessions of this committee, we were not particularly stating or having a discussion. So what I'm saying is that whoever suggested that this commission be formed and who gave the initiative to form itself with the aim of preparing some proposal for this law, had to make sure that this law was not, I say, a single-use law, but rather a very serious political matter. And if the biggest political parties involved in the work of this Parliament could not agree and come up with some quality solution when we had on the agenda of the bill delivered by the Council of Ministers, then it was, in my opinion, (I speak my own opinion), it was too ambitious if the political parties did not agree that we agreed as individuals and as individuals on that commission. I respect and welcome everyone's goodwill and the SNSD Club considers this law necessary for BiH. We have said as a club, and that is why we have also supported this Council of Ministers law, that the law is necessary and that we need to step up the bar in this population census activity with the countries of Europe, but obviously we cannot get there. Someone mentioned here that there would be sanctions for not adopting this law, I am aware and I understand the seriousness of the situation by not happening, or we will not be able to reach common ground if we do not come up with a joint proposal for a new law, but it is not our first example that we suffer sanctions. Here, we will also have sanctions because we have not made a change to the Constitution in terms of judgment, i.e. the European Court of Human Rights decision in the case of Sejdić – Finc. And that's where we'll get our sanctions, but what do we do? The SNSD also said here: we will accept that the European Court's decision is implemented... and to allow national minorities to run. Some parties say: not only that, but all or nothing, it means abolishing the entity's vote in the BiH Constitution, so all or nothing. So when they set things up like that, they get nothing, and BiH gets sanctions. Well, I'm saying, it won't be our first time on this law. That's it, thank you. 104
ParlaMint-BA_2010-05-12-0.u34943	Thank you. I remind you of an earlier arrangement when we're going to interrupt this session. We've got two, three points left to go. But I didn't want to interrupt, we have a report that you made. So, we've read, I've expected that there will be suggestions for possibly some new solutions. If you have these suggestions, no one has submitted a proposal here to the College that we could put to the plea. _________(?) [[no microphone turned on]] So he hasn't gotten to us yet, okay. Whoever has the proposal, I'd like to deliver it to us so we can put it to a statement. Since we haven't interrupted anyone, we won't stop. So here's the replica, the esteemed representative of Milica Marković.
ParlaMint-BA_2010-05-12-0.u34945	Mr. Chairman, I don't think it was right for you to interrupt me in the discussion, but I have the right to report for discussion on this report, regardless of what you said was written. But I didn't answer to convince you this report, but to say what was potentially incorrectly stated as reasons why, not incorrectly but incompletely stated, the reasons why there could not have been a harmonised bill. And I am obliged to say for the public, since there has been a mention of responsibility here, I think counterpart Rifat Dolić mentioned responsibility – who will be responsible for it. Of course, all things must be put on the table and everything must be said which is important. That's why I called.
ParlaMint-BA_2010-05-12-0.u34946	Okay. The following came to the replica, the esteemed representative Momčilo Novaković.
ParlaMint-BA_2010-05-12-0.u34947	Dear colleagues and colleagues, you see, I wouldn't easily understand this word of sanctions. I wouldn't say what's relevant, we'll have sanctions, they're not our first, and they're not the last, and that's how we're gonna finish this job of ours. So I don't think we should get sanctions for this job. There may be jobs, like the Constitution where we can't make an easy deal, but I'm not sure we need sanctions here and just swallow them here. That's why I'm closer to the variant of trying to find a solution. I'm almost so sure... if we could talk to the SDA people, the SNSD to find a solution for us. So, let's forget, here's how I talk like my colleague Marković talked about big parties. Here, forget us little parties and less parties, but I'm sure SDA and SNSD can find a solution for this if they will. Here, I'm suggesting to them now if 105 gets support, I don't even know what Mr. Raguž's proposal to make, but if he gets support, go to the lobby of that meeting and get the SDA and SNSD to sit down and make a deal, and we're done. We'll support whatever you agree to. Here, I am now giving Bianca that I will support everything they agree on, but in order to agree they have to sit down to negotiate, and outside this commission if they think seriously this project should be accepted. If we do not want to accept this project for a variety of reasons, then of course we will find a variety of reasons why we do not want to. Thank you.
ParlaMint-BA_2010-05-12-0.u34948	Thank you. Dear Representative Azra Hadžiahmetović.
ParlaMint-BA_2010-05-12-0.u34949	Thank you, Chairman. I don't want to talk about work so far, and this commission, and this Parliament, and the issues, because I think it's all clear to everyone. But here, and since a letter has been sent to all of us here, which the senior European officials have sent to the Council of Ministers, Mr Špirić, with the invitation to take yet another effort together with the Parliamentary Assembly, I will suggest, rather than reminding you: the key areas of the dispute were around elements which were non-binding, no one disputed any definition, no EU standard, no binding criterion that should contain a list in all European countries, and in that sense I would suggest that the Council of Ministers present an urgent proposal for legislation that would be made in accordance with definitions, standards and all of those elements that all European countries must include in the census next year. If there is enough political will in this Parliamentary Assembly to include some other elements besides what is mandatory, they will become an integral part of the law. If not, at least they will not dispute what no one has disputed in the parliamentary procedure so far, and this is a list of all binding elements. So, I propose asking the Council of Ministers to urgently submit to the parliamentary procedure a new draft legislation on the census that would be... in line with all the definitions of EUROSTAT, standards and all the elements that all European countries must include in the list. I'll deliver the proposal in writing.
ParlaMint-BA_2010-05-12-0.u34950	Thank you. Replica, distinguished representative Mirko Okolić.
ParlaMint-BA_2010-05-12-0.u34951	Thank you, Mr. Chairman. Look, I am in this time and in this... against Mrs. Azra's proposal because it may happen in the Council of Ministers to be a bill that is not in line, passed by consensus and unanimously, but rather a vote. We're gonna waste time and just do it again. That law won't... If a commission works or this commission that 106 Mr. Martin proposes... it won't come to that. We will have two solutions, which is either that this committee will not agree or that it will agree and then it will have the certainty that it will pass here in Parliament. And that is why I, for this option that Mr. Martin has proposed, no matter what commission it was, because there are directly involved in this option representatives of Parliament who... with their critical mass can influence their MPs and... vote if they agree on that commission, if they agree that no one should and should not go into the procedure at all. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-BA_2010-05-12-0.u34952	Thank you. The next is distinguished MP Bakir Izetbegović.
ParlaMint-BA_2010-05-12-0.u34953	I think we should support what my colleague Raguž suggested, try again. Here, I mean, for three years now, as we from the SDA have said, we won't be able to agree to the census unless it's more efficient to implement Annex VII. The Dayton Agreement, that we cannot allow that thing to be stamped on that this country is segregated and that ethnic cleansing is accepted. And then we suggested, we then suggested that you take a loan that also wouldn't definitely help these things but would greatly help to make Annex VII. He's implementing. So we had one reasonable, one soft approach to this issue in the desire to really realize the possibility of a list. Now here's the situation we've got. On the one hand, we have seen the letter that came from Oli Ren, which does not allow us to list citizens outside BiH and which warns us that we cannot take a step towards the EU, this next without this list, and we have a situation caused by war and a segregated society. Therefore, it is likely that what counterpart Azra Hadžiahmetović said a little while ago is left to make a list, given that we avoid the censusing of ethnological digits, or some third solution in terms of application, until the '91 census is applied. ...but here, I say, we remain open for this commission to continue working on Mr. Raguž's proposal and, possibly, to make a concrete proposal. We don't have a concrete proposal today.
ParlaMint-BA_2010-05-12-0.u34954	The next is respected, the second vice president, Dr. Milorad Živković.
ParlaMint-BA_2010-05-12-0.u34955	The SNSD's position on Census Law was here, to say, always consistent and long-term. Any legal project concerning the census of SNSD MPs voted in favour. Everyone else who voted against should say why they did it. They should say why they voted against the law in the first reading so that it would now be proposed that only two members agree and give amendments and that after that, the 127 law from our commission is here in Parliament. Is it pretentious or is it too much work if the law could be released in the first reading, so let's talk about amendments to that law? 107 On the other hand, I hear they say that Annex VII of the Dayton Peace Agreement has not been implemented and that there is no need for a list for that reason. Then, people, we need to be clear here: it's either being carried out, so we're gonna make a list, or it's not done, so we're not gonna make a list. It doesn't matter what the EU says, we didn't close our ears for it once. Then let's be clear, is this Annex being conducted or not being implemented? If not implemented, no list then, no list will be implemented. Or let's say, you know, we're for the list, but he hasn't been implemented. He's not going with each other, we're not consistent. In this commission, we gave, let me say, compromise various proposals, from the fact that they are also listed outside BiH but that they are not entering the EUROSTAT population. It is not a problem, let them be listed, only they will not get into it because the EU does not give it and EUROSTAT. We went to the point where those regulations were not applied until 2014. You said yourself that it's only about the state level, that in entity terms it's settled differently. So what's the problem? Is it a problem that someone here will be more busy when we list in 2014 or 2011? Is that a problem? Who's running away from it? I don't think there's enough honesty and that this law doesn't solve the problem of our commission agreeing on two amendments and proposing 127. This resolves that the Council of Ministers, where it is also not only the SDA, Mr Novaković, but also many other parties, has several times agreed with the SNSD, so that when they see what the Party for BiH is doing, they give up the deal. Someone else needs to enter the agreement, and there are others on the Council of Ministers who need to negotiate.
ParlaMint-BA_2010-05-12-0.u34956	Thank you. The next is distinguished representative Husein Nanić.
ParlaMint-BA_2010-05-12-0.u34957	I thank you, Chairman. Only on four facts I wanted to point out here that are very attached to the census Mr. Izetbegović mentioned in part, so that's the loan. We know there's a problem with the revised return strategy to end the story with the same strategy. Anyone who talks about the census must be aware that in the parliamentary procedure in BiH we still do not have the diaspora law, that we do not have, in fact, the Law on Citizenship that allows thousands of Bosnian Herzegovina citizens to lose their citizenship by force of law. These are things you need to understand us about. Regardless of the weight of the problem, we have to take care, because it is a huge number of Bosnian-Herzegovina citizens who are forced, whether expelled, whether they are getting forced, or losing BiH citizenship, and these are the things that are very difficult to deal with, and avoid the talks that need to be found a solution. Because in response to Mr. Bahtić, which we all got, regarding the diaspora law that he tried for three years, or two years to try and stand in the Council of Ministers for more than a year, that the chairman of the Council of Ministers would not put him on the agenda. These are questions and they are closely related to this Bill on the Census. _________(?) 108 [[no microphone turned on]]
ParlaMint-BA_2010-05-12-0.u34958	We'll see if it's 6:00 or 6:00 a.m. tonight. Replica, distinguished representative Mirko Okolić.
ParlaMint-BA_2010-05-12-0.u34959	Here, I will refer the replica not only to the last speaker but also to those who spoke about the essence of this law and the essence of some problems. That's what we know, we know the law, we know the essence, we know we didn't agree. Today, we should make a decision whether we try another effort or not. I would now ask all those who want to discuss the law to give it up, that is, about the problems in the law, but simply to identify ourselves on whether we will give another chance to finish the discussion and to give the vote a chance to create or agree on this law regardless of who should try or not. There is no need for us to discuss, today is not a debate on the law but a debate on this report by this committee. And that's my request not to discuss the law, that we really don't have the need and purpose to discuss the law. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-BA_2010-05-12-0.u34960	Replica, the esteemed representative Lazar Prodanović.
ParlaMint-BA_2010-05-12-0.u34961	I apologize and very much respect the distinguished colleague Nanić, but I want to say here that we no longer have time for political debates on the census. We have received a very serious and warning letter on which we should plead, above all, and the Council of Ministers and this commission to complete a part of the work. I'm convinced we have 95% agreed questions. There are 5% left to be completed by the next session and we have no use for each interpretation. There is neither Bošnjak nor Srbin, nor Hrvat, nor a member of the national minority in BiH any benefit from these explanations. On the contrary, the census will send a clear signal to both the EU and the citizens of BiH that we will be in a position to improve the situation not implemented by Annex VII of the Dayton Peace Agreement so far by an excellent action plan. We're just kidding ourselves. It's not a population list. It's not someone's goal of doing something against someone. It's what's a civilization issue in the last 20 years. We'll be the only country in Europe, one of the two in the world that didn't do it. To come, not to discuss now, I could now say other things that would cause replicas, but we have to go to this one to solve these three issues, there's only one unresolved in which there's always a compromise. That's it.
ParlaMint-BA_2010-05-12-0.u34962	Dear Representative Drago Kalabić, replica. 109
ParlaMint-BA_2010-05-12-0.u34963	Well, here's a quick mention, but I don't think we should underestimate sanctions when it comes to non-implementation of the list. I think this is a game only to mention sanctions related to the Sejdic-Sejdić-Finac case, and not even close to what we can wait for when it comes to not keeping the list. So all those who think about adding any additional demands should explain it to Europe, after all, which is because of themselves that because of Europe we are doing it and obviously that even though we have spoken, there will be no hearing. There is no hearing of these certain exhibitions, no time and that it is simply such a teat, and here we have long ago had no such warning which is quite clear and now that we are not discussing it here what this means is further participation in all these potential advantages that BiH could have with the census and what all other countries will have. I think we should think about it and say it to the citizens because every day on the media we hear about the heavy sanctions for us that once or two people will not be allowed to run there, which I absolutely still normally support to resolve this issue, but it is nowhere near these sanctions and this fact that we will bring BiH as the only state to not execute the list because Europe has no hearing that political issues are being resolved through the list. It's obvious here that some of the issues that can't be solved in another way want to be resolved now. So those who insist on it must also be aware of the consequences of everything that can happen to us, so that the letters that Štefan Filer and Oli Ren have sent can be forwarded to the headquarters of some parties. So, just to keep a little temporary here in Parliament.
ParlaMint-BA_2010-05-12-0.u34964	Replica, the esteemed representative of Remzija Kadrić.
ParlaMint-BA_2010-05-12-0.u34965	I thank you, Chairman. So, a brief replica to Honoring Ambassador Lazar Prodanović when he said that 95% of things were brought together. I'm saying that it's the other way around, that maybe 5% of things are consistent, and 95% of things aren't consistent. So this is about a key member of 6. He's not in line, and that's why he's... he's carrying weight and I think 95% of things are inconsistencies. So, Annex VII. The Dayton Agreement was not translated and this bill, to be extremely open -- so it would be legalisation of the ethnic cleansing and genocide that took place in BiH.
ParlaMint-BA_2010-05-12-0.u34966	Dear second vice president, Dr. Milorad Živković, replica.
ParlaMint-BA_2010-05-12-0.u34967	It is not within entity, of course, that this is not what Mr. Remzija Kadrić said, but I have come to the conclusion that the distinguished colleague wrote. And if we are already writing conclusions and co-worker Azra Hadžiahmetović, I have not seen anyone from any of the colleagues deliver this conclusion, in any case, if we are already writing conclusions and setting ourselves up according to the definitions of EUROSTAT, it would be good that in that letter, and before that others came here, we also say what EU standards are. Well, I, if you'll excuse me, would like to redefine this conclusion a little bit so we can support it. It means: 'The Parliamentary Assembly is asking the Council of Ministers to urgently submit to the 110 parliamentary procedure a new Proposal for a Census Bill that would be in line with the definitions of EUROSTAT and EU standards.' This would include what they have proposed from the EU as recommendations, and would also be used by EUROSTAT definitions.
ParlaMint-BA_2010-05-12-0.u34968	Now there's no one else reported, I'm closing the debate. Moving to point 24. Ad. 24. A statement on MP Momčilo Novaković's initiative to discuss the agenda item at the House: "Determining guidelines for the action of temporary delegations which, on behalf of BiH, take part in international meetings" Representative Momčilo Novaković attended the 74th session, held 24th session. 3. In 2010, he submitted the above-mentioned initiative. As relevant, the College of the House appointed the Committee for Foreign Affairs, which was delivered to us by 22. 4. 2010 and unanimously supported the initiative. I'm opening a debate on the Initiative. Momčilo Novaković, a respected representative.
ParlaMint-BA_2010-05-12-0.u34970	I want to thank this committee for giving unanimous support to this initiative on the agenda and I hope that it will be soon, so we will not have from this stage now to the stage of putting on the agenda one longer period.
ParlaMint-BA_2010-05-12-0.u34971	Thank you. No more reports, closing the hearing. Moving to the 25th point of the agenda: Ad. 25. Report by the College Committee on Efforts of Understanding on the Proposal for Conclusions of Representatives Zlatko Lagumdžija from the 76th session of the House, held 21. 4. 2010 debate on Amendments and Supplements Act on Service in the Armed Forces 111 Report of consent you've got. The college didn't achieve consent. Today, we are voting in the second round on the proposal for the conclusion of Representative Zlatko Lagumdžija. Point 26. Ad. 26. Report by the College Committee on Efforts to reach agreement on the SDA Club's proposal for a conclusion from the 76th session of the House, held on 21. 4. 2010 to discuss draft Law on Amendments and Supplements to the Service Act in the Armed Forces of BiH
ParlaMint-BA_2010-05-12-0.u34977	The debate over the law is being held by Mr. Lijanović. Here you go.
ParlaMint-BA_2010-05-12-0.u34978	He's right, man.
ParlaMint-BA_2010-05-12-0.u34979	He's right, he's just choking us till the last drop. [[Common discussion]]
ParlaMint-BA_2010-05-12-0.u34980	Does Mr. Lijanović want it? There you go, he's got a right man, a debate about the law.
ParlaMint-BA_2010-05-12-0.u34981	Here, I must thank my colleagues for this unanimous support on such an important matter and the realization that this is urgent to resolve, whether positive or negative, is it? It's democratic to define one or the other. I want to say a few words why we should define ourselves positively. I'm a little bit through
ParlaMint-BA_2010-05-12-0.u34982	Please just wait, be patient, let your colleague explain the reasons. 113
ParlaMint-BA_2010-05-12-0.u34983	The discussions on the law and through the replica had to be said for reasons why other colleagues in practice in the procedure looked back on the essence of the law, but I will try to repeat myself as little as possible. So we have over 30 countries in the world that have a mandatory vote. We need to look at this law in two parts. One part is the mandatory vote, and the other is part of the law enforcement measure. I believe that the mandatory vote is very much needed because we have a young underdeveloped democracy, because we have such an electoral system that the heads of the municipalities with very large powers are elected from 10 to 20% of the total electoral body, that the president of the entity is elected to us by 15%, 20% of the electoral body, members of the presidency. By a mandatory vote, they would surely ensure that the election is far greater as demonstrated in the practice of the countries that have this vote, where the outings are 80 to 90%. common discussion Here, you'll all have a business opportunity to discuss and put your replicas on everything you don't think is right. I will also appreciate it very much in the next draft of the law, if it is not adopted today, taking all your proposals into account how the law would improve to get as high-quality legislation as possible in some future period. What I can promise you is that I will keep proposing until it is adopted. So the application would ensure that the next elections are covered by this law. I find that very important. [[Common discussion]]
ParlaMint-BA_2010-05-12-0.u34986	I thank you, too. Dear Representative Denis Bećirović.
ParlaMint-BA_2010-05-12-0.u34987	I only have one quick question. The promoter told us that there are 30 countries that have a mandatory vote. Is there a single country on the globe that has a mandatory vote plus these 100 marks that can be converted?
ParlaMint-BA_2010-05-12-0.u34988	No microphone turned on
ParlaMint-BA_2010-05-12-0.u34989	Sure, sure, sure.
ParlaMint-BA_2010-05-12-0.u34990	Here, this question is very important, and I think it's very good to clarify it. Since none of these 30 countries, in fact something or more than 30, have a model to ensure compensation for those who go to the elections, but all have a model to punish those who have not gone to the elections, and since we in BiH are original by a lot of things, according to our Constitution as it is, according to our incompetent political leadership, which has been leading us unsuccessfully for 20 years, by economic development, in fact, under poverty, means by many elements we are very specific in this country and I think we should also be specific to this positive example. And fortunately, we have many more positive and original solutions that we will apply in our country and give us results in some future period. Here, I'll read you what countries it's about. common discussion So, mandatory vote, mandatory vote, (?) No microphone 115 turned on
ParlaMint-BA_2010-05-12-0.u34993	Okay, you're done?
ParlaMint-BA_2010-05-12-0.u34994	... surely with this law, we are going far faster towards the EU because there would probably be people in this house who would do so much more. Thank you.
ParlaMint-BA_2010-05-12-0.u34995	I thank you for your very constructive answers and explanations. Replica, the esteemed representative Vinko Zorić.
ParlaMint-BA_2010-05-12-0.u34996	This would certainly be a step towards what my colleague Jerko is talking about, but I did not answer for the replica, but for the correction, in my opinion, a false quote. In fact, Jerko said for 20 years that our politicians were incompetent,
ParlaMint-BA_2010-05-12-0.u34997	No microphone turned on
ParlaMint-BA_2010-05-12-0.u34998	Incompetent political leadership, I'd rename it at least in 70 years, because I don't know why 20 years. I've felt it since I've known about myself. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-BA_2010-05-12-0.u34999	Sadik Bahtić, replica. 116
ParlaMint-BA_2010-05-12-0.u35000	I must say, when you're reading us a moral lesson here, your incompetent political leadership for 20 years when it allows you to import garbage here, poison us and that... no one here is naive. Let's show those farms of yours, that's all, domestic production that you're brainwashing around here all the time!
ParlaMint-BA_2010-05-12-0.u35001	No microphone turned on
ParlaMint-BA_2010-05-12-0.u35002	They're incompetent politicians when they let you do that. I would never let you do that. And what you're doing up there in Agrommertz, giving the poor girl 500,000 marks, 20 million marks, you want me to... We're here, we're so naive when we let a man do that to us up there, rob this country for 20 years, not pay the government's dues, and now you're still giving us the creeps' brains. First, pay those upstairs people not to come to me. You promised, and you didn't pay 100 marks. The state is serious, but it won't promise the state that it can't pay tomorrow. How dare you...?- I'm sorry. [[Common discussion]]
ParlaMint-BA_2010-05-12-0.u35003	Thank you. No more reports, closing the hearing. We're accessing a statement on the bill.
ParlaMint-BA_2010-05-12-0.u35004	No microphone turned on
ParlaMint-BA_2010-05-12-0.u35005	I've closed the debate. You called late.
ParlaMint-BA_2010-05-12-0.u35006	No microphone turned on
ParlaMint-BA_2010-05-12-0.u35007	You can't do this anymore. I've concluded the debate.
ParlaMint-BA_2010-05-12-0.u35008	No microphone turned on
ParlaMint-BA_2010-05-12-0.u35009	I've got a screen in front of me. It can't be. ... No, you're too late. I've concluded the debate. This is indeed the highlight of the abuse of the Rules of Procedure and of tolerance towards you and your rights. 117 We approach the statement on the proposal for a rule of law at point 3.
ParlaMint-BA_2010-05-12-0.u35010	No microphone turned on
ParlaMint-BA_2010-05-12-0.u35011	Please, please respect the Rules of Procedure and sit down if you wish to join the vote without disturbing others who wish. I'm begging you and warning you.
ParlaMint-BA_2010-05-12-0.u35012	I want... business law, and that's another replica.
ParlaMint-BA_2010-05-12-0.u35013	You haven't checked in in a while, you can sign in in 15 hours and then again to give you my word, so it won't work that way. I don't want to debate with you at all, I've finished the debate, please sit down and do not disturb the work of the others. Please prepare to plead. We're accessing a statement on the bill.
ParlaMint-BA_2010-05-12-0.u35014	... checked in on time for a replica. [[no microphone turned on]] And I don't think there's any reason for violence against the Rules of Procedure over a minute of replication. The MP has never violated the Rules of Procedure, who has never... spent time, who has never...
ParlaMint-BA_2010-05-12-0.u35015	I ask professional services to allow access to the plea. Vote now! With one vote "yes", 29 votes "against", four "abstained", I find the bill not accepted. We move to the plea under point 4. Request of the Joint Committee
ParlaMint-BA_2010-05-12-0.u35016	No microphone turned on
ParlaMint-BA_2010-05-12-0.u35017	Please do not abuse the Rules of Procedure, I ask you to sit down, do not interfere with the session's further work, I give you a warning. We approach the plea under point 4. Request of the Joint Committee for Human Rights, Rights of the Child, Youth, Immigration, Refugees, Asylum and Ethics to Consider Proposal 118 of Amendments and Supplements to the Code of Conduct for Representatives and Envoys in the Parliamentary Assembly of BiH under the hasty procedure, in accordance with Article 127. Rules of Procedure. We're voting on a request for an emergency procedure. Please prepare yourselves. Vote now! With 32 votes "yes", without the vote "against", five "abstained", I find the request for an emergency procedure accepted. We approach a statement on the amendment and supplementation of the Code of Conduct. Please prepare yourselves. Vote now! With 32 votes "yes", without votes "against", five "abstained", I find that the House of Representatives has accepted the amendment and addition of the Code of Conduct for Representatives and Envoys to the BiH Parliamentary Assembly. We approach the plea under point 5. Proposal for a Law on Copyright and Related Rights – Proposer of the Council of Ministers (second reading). I would like to point out that we have agreed on a proposal for the conclusion of the esteemed representative, Šefik Džaferović and Milorad Živković, which refers both to this point and to the 6th item of the agenda. We approach the statement on the proposal for a conclusion, which reads "A vote on the Proposal for a Law on Copyright and Related Rights and the Proposal for a Law on collective exercise of copyright and related rights is delayed and they return to the Constitutional Legal Commission to agree until the next session of the House." Please prepare yourselves. Vote now! With 33 votes "yes", without votes "against", five "abstained" votes, I find that we have accepted the proposal for a conclusion, thereby delaying the vote on the Proposal for a Law on Copyright and Related Rights and on the Proposal for a Law on collective exercise of copyright and related rights. We move on to a statement on point 7. Proposal for a law on the application of the results of analysis of deoxyribonucleic acid in court proceedings (second reading). We are voting on the amendments of Representative Halid Genjac. Amendment I. Please prepare. Vote now! With 14 votes "yes", 16 "against", six "abstained", this amendment was not accepted. We approach the Declaration on amandman II.. Please prepare yourselves. Vote now! With 13 votes "yes", 19 "against", six "abstained", I find this amendment not accepted. We approach the Declaration on amandman III.. 119 Please prepare. Vote now! With 11 votes "yes", 19 "against", 10 "abstained", I also find that this amendment has not received the necessary support. We approach the statement on the amendments of Niko Lozančić. I suggest we vote in the package on both amendments. Please prepare yourselves. Vote now! With 11 votes "yes", 22 "against", seven "abstained", I find that these two amendments have not been accepted either. We approach the statement of the bill in the second reading. Please prepare to vote. Vote now! With 37 votes "yes", without votes "against", two "abstained", a sufficient entity majority, I find that the House of Representatives accepted the bill in a second reading. We approach the statement on the proposal for the conclusion of Mr. Momčilo Novaković's representative. Please prepare yourselves. Vote now! 22 votes "yes", two "against", 15 "abstained", an insufficient entity majority from the Federation.
ParlaMint-BA_2010-05-12-0.u35018	No microphone turned on
ParlaMint-BA_2010-05-12-0.u35019	Re-vote at the request of the esteemed representative, Martin Raguž. Please prepare. Vote now! With 25 votes "yes", two "against", 13 "abstained", a sufficient entity majority, I conclude that the proposal for a conclusion has been accepted. Accessing the statement under point 8. Proposal for a Law on Amendments and Supplements to the Labour Act in the Institutions of Bosnia and Herzegovina – Proposer of the Council of Ministers (second reading). We will vote first on the proposal for the conclusion of the esteemed representative Lazar Prodanović, who says 'A statement on the Proposal for a Law on Amendments and Supplements to the Law on Labour in the Institutions of BiH for the 78th session of the House and mandates the Constitutional Legislative Commission of the Parliamentary House to... on the Proposal for a Law on Amendments and Supplements to the Law on Labour in the Institutions of BiH is being finalised by the controversial Amendment XXIII Constitutional Committee in cooperation with the Ministry of Justice and tries to find a compromise solution in order to resolve the problem." We approach a statement on the proposal for a conclusion. Please prepare yourselves. Vote now! 120 With 36 votes "yes", without the vote "against", two "abstained", a sufficient entity majority, I find this conclusion accepted and a delayed statement on the bill's proposal. Accessing the statement under point 9. Proposal for a law amending and supplementing the Law on the financing of political parties (second reading). Please prepare yourselves. Vote now! With 30 votes "yes", nine "against", one "abstained", a sufficient entity majority, I find the proposal for a law on the financing of political parties accepted in the second reading. We approach the plea under point 10. Proposal for a law banning all fascist and neo-fascist organisations and using their signs in Bosnia and Herzegovina (first reading). Please prepare yourselves. Vote now! 28 votes "yes", 12 "against", without "abstained", an insufficient entity majority. We're taking a plea in the second round. Please prepare yourselves. Vote now! With 26 votes "yes", 12 "against", without "abstained", two-thirds "against" from the RS entity, I find the bill not accepted. Accessing the statement under point 11. Proposal for a law amending and supplementing the Law on the conduct of a judicial examination in Bosnia and Herzegovina (first reading). Please prepare yourselves. Vote now! With 27 votes "yes", one "against", 11 "abstained", an insufficient entity majority, the College will subsequently agree on this proposal and you will be notified. We approach the statement at point 12. Proposal for a law on the Public Enterprise to issue official texts of Bosnia and Herzegovina (first reading). Please prepare yourselves. Vote now! 25 votes "yes", eight "against", seven "abstained", an insufficient entity majority. We approach the plea in the second round. Please prepare yourselves. Vote now! With 25 votes "yes", 12 "against", three "abstained", two-thirds "against" from the RS entity, the law was not adopted. 121 Access to the statement under point 13. Proposal for a law amending and supplementing the Service Act in the Armed Forces of Bosnia and Herzegovina (first reading). Please prepare yourselves. Vote now! With 38 votes "yes", without the vote "against", two "abstained", a sufficient entity majority, I find that the bill was adopted in the first reading. Accessing the statement under point 14. Report by the Joint Committee on the efforts to reach agreement on the same text of the Labour Time Act, the mandatory vacations of mobile workers and road transport recording devices. Please prepare yourselves. Vote now! With 36 votes "yes", without the vote "against", four "abstained", a sufficient entity majority, I agree that we have accepted this report. We approach the plea under point 15. A report by the Joint Commission on the efforts of both homes to reach agreement on the same text of the Law on Amendments and Supplements to the Road Safety Act in BiH. Please prepare yourselves. Vote now! With 32 votes "yes", one "against", seven "abstained", a sufficient entity majority, I agree that we have also accepted this report. Accessing the statement under point 16. A report by the Joint Commission on the efforts of both homes to reach agreement on the same text of the Law on Amendments and Supplements to the Law on Foreign Direct Investment Policy in BiH. Please prepare yourselves. Vote now! With 33 votes "yes", without votes "against", seven "abstained", a sufficient entity majority, I agree that we have also accepted this report. Accessing the statement under point 17. The Joint Commission's report to both homes on its efforts to reach agreement on the same text of the Anti-minal Action Act in BiH. I would like to point out once again that the report is negative, and if we adopt this law, it has been rejected, and if we do not adopt it, and if the House of Peoples does not adopt it, we return it to the Joint Committee to produce a new report, according to home guidelines. Please prepare. Vote now! With 15 votes "yes", 14 "against", 11 "abstained", the report adopted. 122 Access to the declaration under point 18. Information on the BiH Prosecutor's Office's work for 2009. We are voting on receiving information by adopting a proposal from the Committee's opinion. Please prepare yourselves. Vote now! 26 votes "yes", nine "against", five "abstained", an insufficient entity majority. There's no consent. We approach the plea in the second round. Please prepare yourselves. Vote now! With 26 votes "yes", 12 "against", two "abstained", there are two-thirds of the votes "against", I find that we have received information and proposals from the opinion of the Commission. We approach the plea under point 19. Report on the work of the National Regulatory Commission for Electricity in 2009. We're voting for adoption of the report. Please prepare yourselves. Vote now! With 35 votes "yes", one vote "against", four "abstained", a sufficient entity majority, I agree that we adopted the Work Report. We approach the plea under point 20. A report on the work of the Bosnia and Herzegovina Institutions Audit Office for 2009. We're voting for adoption of the report. Please prepare yourselves. Vote now! With 33 votes "yes", one "against", five "abstained", a sufficient entity majority, I also find that we have adopted this report. On point 21, we delayed the debate, and so did the plea. We approach the plea under point 22. A report on the work of the Independent Committee as an independent body of Bosnia and Herzegovina's police structure for 2009 and the Plan for the work of the Independent Committee as an independent body of police structure in Bosnia and Herzegovina for 2010. We are voting on the adoption of the Report and the Work Plan. Please prepare yourselves. Vote now! With 30 votes "yes", without votes "against", eight "abstained", a sufficient entity majority, I agree that we have both accepted the Report and the Work Plan. Accessing the declaration by point 23. Report on the work of the Interim Commission for the Preparation of the Bill on Census, Households and Apartments in Bosnia and Herzegovina 2011. 123 We are voting on the proposal for the conclusion of MP Martin Raguž, who reads 'The Interim Commission for the Preparation of the Bill on the List of Populations, Households and Apartments in BiH 2011 to continue the work and prepare the Proposal for a Law on List and propose it under Article 127. Rules of Procedure of Parliament's House of Representatives." We approach a statement on the proposal for a conclusion. Please prepare yourselves. Vote now! With 23 votes "yes", 15 "against", two "abstained", a sufficient entity majority, I find this proposal accepted. I don't know if it makes sense to make a statement about this second conclusion. Okay, I think this other one means the same thing while this procedure is going on. Accessing the statement under point 24. A statement on MP Momčilo Novaković's initiative to discuss the agenda item "Determining guidelines for the action of temporary delegations which, on behalf of Bosnia and Herzegovina, take part in international meetings". We're voting on the adoption of this initiative. Please prepare yourselves. Vote now! With 37 votes "yes", one "against", one "abstained", a sufficient entity majority, I find this initiative accepted. We approach the statement under point 25. Report by the College Committee on Efforts to reach agreement on the Proposal for the conclusion of the Council of Representatives Zlatko Lagumdžija from the 76th session of the House, held 21. 4. In 2010, it discussed the Bill on Amendments and Supplements to the Service Act in the Armed Forces of BiH. We're voting in the second round on the proposal for a conclusion. Please prepare to vote. Vote now! 25 votes "for", 10 "against", five "abstained".
ParlaMint-BA_2010-05-12-0.u35020	No microphone turned on
ParlaMint-BA_2010-05-12-0.u35021	At the request of the honourable representative, Drago Kalabić, we repeat the vote. Vote now! With 24 votes "yes", 12 "against", three "abstained", two-thirds of the vote "against" from the RS entity, I find that the proposal for a conclusion is not accepted. 124 We approach the statement under point 26. Report by the College Committee on the Effort of Understanding on the Proposal for Conclusions of the SDA Club from the 76th session of the House, held on 21. 4. In 2010, it discussed the Bill on Amendments and Supplements to the Service Act in the Armed Forces of BiH. We're voting in the second round on the proposal for a conclusion. Please prepare yourselves. Vote now! With 20 votes "yes", 12 "against", seven "abstained", two-thirds of the vote "against" from the RS entity, I find that the proposal for a conclusion is not accepted. We approach the statement on point 27. Granting consent for ratification from a) to d). First, I suggest we say we vote in a package on all agreements. Prepare to vote. Vote now! With 36 votes "yes", two "against", two "abstained", a sufficient entity majority, I agree that we have accepted that we vote in the package. We're accessing a statement all over point 27. Prepare to vote. Vote now! With 39 votes "yes", no votes "against" and no "abstained", I find that we have agreed to ratify the agreement referred to in point 27. I'm just asking for a little attention. That concludes our work on this agenda. Since we had one proposal this morning on what the Expansive College decides, means the College in an extended composition, after I conclude the work of this session, I call on members of the Expansive College to immediately consider here at the table so that we can inform you and the Proposer of the initiative. Please hold for a minute or two. There are short consultations. I don't think there's any need to be long, but since the Extended College is in charge. /consultations of the Extended College. ...here I ask you to inform your clubs, so 25 will be a session. The seat is closed at 7:35.
