ParlaMint-BA_2010-07-14-0.u35995	Ladies and gentlemen of the Parliament, take your seats. Ladies and gentlemen of the House of Representatives, honored guests, I am opening the 81st session of the Parliamentary House of BiH. Our regular guests, presidents and members of the BiH Presidency, the chairman and members of the BiH Council of Ministers, representatives of the OHR, the OSCE and other international organisations who regularly monitor the work of our home, and representatives of certain NGOs were invited at today's session. I welcome all present representatives and guests, as well as representatives of public information funds. According to service information, the session is attended by 28 MPs. The absence was announced by representatives: Rifat Dolić, Mehmed Suljkanović, Sead Jamakosmanović and Lejla Klokić. The delays were announced: Zlatko Lagumdžija and Sefer Halilović. I find the session has a quorum for work and decision-making. On previous issues, I would like to inform you that we have not yet received a report from the Council of Ministers on the work over the past four years and on the initiative of MP Denis Bećirović. Otherwise, this initiative is business-processed and directed towards competent committees, and for this reason this item was not found on today's session agenda. As for the amendments to the agenda, I would like to introduce you that we have downloaded item 4. Proposal for a Framework Law on Free Legal Assistance, Proposer: Council of Ministers, Law No 01,02-02-3-42/10 of 8. Six. 2010 (second reading), since the bill was rejected at the 48th session of the House of People, held 13. Seven. 2010; point 8. The annual report on the results of the activities of the BiH Ombudsman institution because we received a request from the Joint Commission for Human Rights, Rights of the Child, Youth, Immigration, Refugees, Asylum and Ethics to remove this point because of the lack of quorum they did not hold a session and did not consider that report. We've completed point 3. Proposal for a Law amending and supplementing the Act on the Protection of Secret Information with the Joint Commission's Report on the Control of the Work of the Intelligence and Security Agency, which is negative; point 13, earlier 15, Giving consent to ratification with point (a) of the Agreement between the Council of Ministers of BiH and the Government of the Republic of Turkey on cooperation in the field of health. For point 8, earlier at point 10, Information from the Council of Ministers on the terrorist attack on the Police Administration in Bugojn (the conclusion of the House at the 80th session, held on 30th). Six. 2010.We have not received 2 material from the Council of Ministers, but we have received from the Defence and Security Committee a proposal from the Ministry of Security and Information Action and proposed measures by police agencies in BiH regarding the terrorist attack on the Police Administration in Bugojn and the opinion of the Commission on these materials. The Commission did not accept those materials. I'm opening a debate on the proposed agenda. Dear Representative Denis Bećirović.
ParlaMint-BA_2010-07-14-0.u35996	Mr. Chairman, distinguished colleagues and colleagues, esteemed guests and media representatives, since I have been proposing three consecutive sessions to include a point on the agenda concerning the four-year report on the work of the BiH Council of Ministers, but unfortunately without effect, for the time being, I suggest, if we are really serious in order to put the point on the agenda, that we put that item on the agenda today. And when the agenda comes to a conclusion, within that agenda point, under which we will now and officially here at Parliament's meeting, order the Council of Ministers to deliver such a agenda to us for the next session. It seems to me after nearly three months of stalling that it is a conscious obstruction and the unpreparedness of the Council of Ministers and those who make up the Council of Ministers to file an account, they file a report on four years of work here in front of the BiH Parliament, in particular at the House of Representatives. This House of Representatives, among other things, has been elected by the Council of Ministers, and it is quite normal, as it is done in other countries, for the Council of Ministers to report here to the House of Representatives. Therefore, in order not to conclude in the next session, and there are only two other than this, as it is in the procedure and as we expect something from the Council of Ministers, I suggest that we resolve it in this way today, to classify it as a part of the agenda. Today, we officially commit another BiH Council of Ministers to deliver such a single report to us at the session.
ParlaMint-BA_2010-07-14-0.u35997	If you would like to run for a new agenda, please define the name of the item and deliver it here so that we can present it to the representatives and place it on a statement. I remind you once again that your initiative, in accordance with the Rules of Procedure, has been processed and directed to the relevant committees. We haven't received any evidence or competent committees yet. As soon as we get that, this initiative will be on the stand here in the House. The next is distinguished representative Šefik Džaferović.
ParlaMint-BA_2010-07-14-0.u35998	Mr. Chairman, colleagues and colleagues, ladies and gentlemen, I have no ambition, no intention of proposing a new agenda item or taking down any item on the agenda that you have listed, but I have an obligation to point out, for the debate on the agenda, a phenomenon which, among other things, concerns this agenda. It is about taking off the agenda (which you certainly had to take off, so there is no dilemma because it fell into the House of Peoples) of the Framework Law on providing free legal assistance. 3 You see, at the Constitutional Commission session last Thursday, we discussed this law in the second reading, supported it, and then we said that it was not the past amendment phase, that it would pass, so we made sure that it was at this session today, so on Monday we held a session two days ago and discussed the amendments sent by one of our distinguished colleagues here. And of course, it was wasted for that time, nine people had to come, people from the Justice Department had to come, the whole mechanism was launched, and it was all costing. And, in the end, there happens yesterday a session of the House of Peoples and they say in the first reading we reject it and it all falls into the water. I mean, first of all... it's the right of the House of Peoples and I don't want to go into it, it's the Constitution of this country, but I want to draw attention to all of us that maybe we're a little smarter and more rationally organized so that we don't spend our free time and that we don't start our resources where we don't need it. We need to guide them where they need to be directed. Because if I'm going to raise the Constitutional Commission and all nine people, or I don't know how many of them there were, come, leave my obligations here on Monday, and it costs, coming to a colleague's car costs, right, and pay it, and tomorrow someone just like that, as they say in the everyday jargon, kicked by a leg and it looks like the House of Peoples to me. Don't get angry, it's their right, but it's my right to judge it that way, so that's not how we should do it. I'm asking you to see what you can do out there with that other college so we don't get into these situations anymore. Thank you again.
ParlaMint-BA_2010-07-14-0.u35999	Thank you. Next is the distinguished representative Slavko Matić.
ParlaMint-BA_2010-07-14-0.u36000	Thank you, Mr. President. Dear colleagues and fellow representatives, honored guests, I did not report that I would suggest any new points in the agenda, not even amendments, not even additions, but only to say that if we want our intended last item in the agenda, 13, where the agreements, today, are being absorbed and completed, I must say that we have failed to hold a session of the Foreign Affairs Committee, not yesterday in the scheduled period, nor in a retry since this morning. There is a will with most members of the Committee to do it today to save these agreements and to realize them today, to give consent probably through the vote. But given this thin quorum, there is a danger that if we try to organise a session of this committee in the work of this session, we will question the work of the House of Representatives in terms of quorum. Whether a break was planned within the College, so that we can provide for that session of the Commission. If not, if there is a possibility that colleagues and colleagues will still join us in the work, we could also do the work of the Commission while the House of Representatives works at the same time.
ParlaMint-BA_2010-07-14-0.u36001	Thank you. We'll see during today's session, so probably around 13.00 we'll give you a break so you can call a session of the Commission. The next is the esteemed second Vice-President Dr. Milorad Živković. 4
ParlaMint-BA_2010-07-14-0.u36002	Thank you. The issue raised by honourable MP Džaferović has been burdening the work of this parliament for four years. We have repeatedly tried to talk to colleagues from the House of Nations but unsuccessfully. In the last month alone, you've seen how many times we've had to give up and take over our own activities in this home from working together. One thing is the Maoča, another thing is the DKP network, the third thing is the Rules of Procedure, they don't want to do anything, and every proposal they think they're autonomous in their work, so they have a business right to bring down the laws when they come into the process, no matter what state these laws have passed in this house. Therefore, it is a matter that everyone is responsible for his work that he does. However, they have some illogicalness that we can correct ourselves, such as the illogicalness that the joint commission, when discussing a legal project, must meet twice to support the principles of the law. If the joint commission meets where the House of Peoples and the House of Representatives participates and adopts the principles of the law, I guess that means both for the home. Well, it doesn't take for a list to meet this committee twice, and we can end these things ourselves here. And that Rules of Procedure, if they don't want to solve it the way they do, we'll try to work it out. So there's something up to us.
ParlaMint-BA_2010-07-14-0.u36003	Thank you. The next is distinguished representative Denis Bećirović, a replica.
ParlaMint-BA_2010-07-14-0.u36004	I'd just like to remind you of one thing that's a common fact. The majority that exists here in the House of Representatives also exists in the House of Peoples. And in such a way that people from the ruling parties also talk about their colleagues from the ruling parties in the House of Peoples, as they transfer responsibility, does not really stand. Therefore, it should indeed be kept in mind and not try within the same parties, which have a majority in both homes, to move from one home to another home as if they were people from different parties. They are all ruling parties in both homes and in this BiH Council of Ministers.
ParlaMint-BA_2010-07-14-0.u36005	The next is distinguished representative Husein Nanić.
ParlaMint-BA_2010-07-14-0.u36006	I thank you, Chairman. My colleagues and fellow MPs, I just wanted to comment on Mr Matić's statement, and it is about this 13th item of the agenda and the proposed agreements. Unfortunately, and here at the end of the term of office, but we MPs have until October 3rd or if that doesn't say otherwise, it's been going on for a really long time that this commission has been serving really forms just to vote, to confirm or not to confirm these agreements. And for a long time now, a number of these same MPs have not come to the session, and here we are, on this matter, making a third appointment and wasting our time. And that's why I want to make it public that there are MPs who regularly come to the meetings and the day before they can attend the sessions, and there are some MPs who are also in the building who do not want 5 to attend the meetings. For this reason, I wanted this publicly, I support this, we need to bring these agreements in the interests of BiH and those concerned with these agreements, but I also warn of the irresponsibility of MPs on issues and their presence with the sittings themselves.
ParlaMint-BA_2010-07-14-0.u36007	Thank you. No more reports. We have only one proposal to supplement the agenda, a proposal by distinguished representative Denis Bećirović: An initiative to adopt a conclusion tasked by the Council of Ministers to draw up a report on the work of the BiH Council of Ministers for the period from January 2007 to June 2010. I'm making a proposal for a plea. _________(?) [[no microphone turned on]] You have the opportunity to make a statement about the proposal to put it on the agenda today. I will plead in accordance with my opinion and with the Rules of Procedure, and all of you have the right to do so. Here you go, get ready to vote. Vote now! 17 votes "yes", 10 "against". Insufficient entity majority. We vote in the second round. Vote now! 19 votes "for", six "against", four "abstained". Insufficient two-thirds of the votes "against" and I find that the proposal to supplement the agenda has been accepted and will be positioned under point 13. I find that the House of Representatives of the BiH Parliamentary Assembly for the 81st session of the House has established the following DAY RED 1. The adoption of the minutes of the 80th session of the House of Representatives; 2. Representative questions: (a) Comments on answers received, (b) New issues of representation; 3. Proposal for a Law amending and supplementing the Act on the Protection of Secret Information, Proposer: Council of Ministers of BiH, Law No 01,02-02-8-19/10 of 4. 2. In 2010, with the Joint Commission's report on the work of the BiH Intelligence and Security Agency; 6 4. Proposal for a Law amending the Law on Administrative Disputes of Bosnia and Herzegovina Proposer: the Council of Ministers of BiH, Law No 01,02-02-5-39/10 of 4. Six. 2010 (second reading); 5. Proposal for a law on international and inter-entity road transport, Proposer: Council of Ministers of BiH, Law No 01,02-02-3-44/10 of 16. Six. 2010 (first reading); 6. Proposal for a Law amending the Framework Law on Higher Education in Bosnia and Herzegovina, Proposers: Representatives of the SDP Club, Law No: 01-02-7-43/10 of 15. Six. 2010 (first reading); 7. Information from the Ministry of Security of Bosnia and Herzegovina on the police aspects of the 'Lightness' action and the measures taken by the team in the context of this action, material number: 01,02-04- 395-1/10 of 25. Six. In 2010; 8 / 8 Information from the Council of Ministers of Bosnia and Herzegovina on the terrorist attack on the Police Administration in Bugojn (the conclusion of the House of 80th session, held on 30th). Six. 2010); 9. Information on Bosnia and Herzegovina's public debt situation on 31 March 12. In 2009, material number: 01,02-16-1-742/10 of 4. Six. 2010; 10. Consideration of the Citizens' Group's Initiative on the founding of Bosnia and Herzegovina's judicial bodies on the process of crime during the tragic war conflict on Bosnia and Herzegovina's territory (A adopted initiative by MP Mirko Okolić at the 59th session of the House, held on 2 March 2014). Nine. 2009); 11. Statement on MP Mirjana Malić's initiative to discuss the meeting of the House of Agenda – Ensuring transparency and legality of the printing of ballots for the upcoming General Elections in 2010; 12. Declaration on the Initiative of the Representatives of the Party for BiH Party to discuss the session of the House of Agenda – Information by the Ombudsman of Bosnia and Herzegovina on preventing this institution from performing its functions in accordance with the law; 13. An initiative to adopt a conclusion tasked with the BiH Council of Ministers to draw up a report on the work of the BiH Council of Ministers for the period from January 2007 to June 2010; 14. Giving consent to ratification: (a) Agreement between the Council of Ministers of Bosnia and Herzegovina and the Government of the Republic of Turkey on cooperation in the field of health, (b) Treaty between Bosnia and Herzegovina and the Kingdom of Spain on the avoidance of double taxation and the prevention of fiscal evasion in relation to income and property taxes, (c) Treaty on the Guarantee for the Credit Line of the Bosnia and Herzegovina Deposit Insurance Agency between Bosnia and Herzegovina and the European Bank for Reconstruction and Development. We're moving on to processing the established agenda. Point 1. Ad. 1. The adoption of the 80th session of the House of Representatives
ParlaMint-BA_2010-07-14-0.u36011	I received an answer from the BiH Council of Ministers to one of the questions asked, and in response I received the following answer, which is a bit of an unreal answer, and I would therefore like with some of the Council of Ministers to confirm whether what was delivered in response is really true. In response to the parliamentary question, among other things, the Council of Ministers said in 2007, so in all that year, it passed four, only four laws, in 2008, only 10 laws, in 2009, only 14 laws and, behold, I did not get the data for 2010. I am interested in the Council of Ministers, therefore, asking for an oral reply today at the session. Are these data really correct?
ParlaMint-BA_2010-07-14-0.u36012	The next is distinguished representative Husein Nanić.
ParlaMint-BA_2010-07-14-0.u36013	I thank you, Chairman. Here, I got this time at 81st session most answers to questions asked. What I would like to comment on is, and I would like to thank the Council of Ministers for its up-to-date response since they were asked at the last two or three sessions, the question of opening a small-time transition in the municipality of Cazin – Tržačka Rastela. Unfortunately, here's the whole mandate, and I've been asking this question on several occasions and getting answers that certain activities are being led. And these activities have been under way since 2003 and unfortunately still, at the end is the conclusion in response, that they will again hold a meeting between representatives of BiH and Croatia in the coming period, and that they will decide to open and categorise the transition. 8 I, here at this time, really refer my disdain to the slowness, for I cannot understand that it takes eight years for the opening of a small transition to complete these procedures. And the second, too, comment that I wanted to make is to be answered by the Council of Ministers. In fact, this is the response of the minister of civil affairs regarding the campaign to introduce compulsory secondary education. Unfortunately, in a very short response, it is concluded that those responsibilities we know, which are the responsibilities of the ministry itself, that a certain consensus should be reached, etc. However, I do not see here at all any activity of this ministry to say no, it should not, or, yes, it should, or any analysis of this requirement for the introduction of education, regardless of what this ministry has, as indicated here, means a co-ordinating role. I think this is the ministry's obligation to make certain initiatives that receive broad public and institution support that it is necessary to state its position on the issue. And because of that, I really didn't, I don't want to repeat the question, but I wanted to find, in response to the... question, an inert attitude of this ministry towards this issue, although I appreciate that it is necessary for BiH and I find it necessary for us to support it, as well as the Council of Ministers. Thank you.
ParlaMint-BA_2010-07-14-0.u36014	Thank you. The next is the distinguished representative Lazar Prodanović.
ParlaMint-BA_2010-07-14-0.u36015	Thank you, Chairman. I would like to thank, above all, for answering part of the parliamentary question I asked at the 76th session, and it concerns the question of the total number of medical autopsy done in health institutions at the secondary and tertiary level in BiH. I received an answer to this question delivered by the Ministry of Health and Social Protection of the RS. That number, which was done in 2009, I am satisfied with that response and otherwise with the number of postmortems performed in view of the overall circumstances and the deficit of personnel in the medical pathology area, but I did not get a response from the Federal Ministry of Health. First of all, I am glad that Minister Nović is here as always and very often actually at the sessions. I ask him, given that this sector belongs to his ministry, to get, to have a full answer from all over BiH on this very important issue. And to determine the exact causes of death for the persons in which she appeared, in accordance with the Health Protection Act, so it's been less than 24 hours from the time of admission to the death of a health care facility. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-BA_2010-07-14-0.u36016	Thank you. The next is the distinguished representative Azra Alajbegović. 9
ParlaMint-BA_2010-07-14-0.u36017	Dear Chairman, colleagues and colleagues, ladies and gentlemen, I am on the question 'when will the contraceptives be on the essential list of medicines for the whole of BiH', I have received an answer that I am formally satisfied with,... formally. A very nice and systematic chronologic response was written, in terms of who wrote to whom, who asked whom, but we don't really have any results, because there is no initiative, no conclusion, no operationalisation of the contraceptive on the essential list of medicines for BiH. I would not like to waste your time and say how much such a kind of protection from unwanted pregnancy would be imperative and a benefit for, above all, the reproductive health of BiH citizens and for promoting the health of BiH citizens, not just to treat the sick. Thank you.
ParlaMint-BA_2010-07-14-0.u36018	Thank you. Moving to b) New Agents' Issues Dear Representative Šefik Džaferović.
ParlaMint-BA_2010-07-14-0.u36020	Dear Chairman, colleagues and colleagues, ladies and gentlemen, I have two parliamentary questions. The first question is referred to the BiH Council of Ministers and reads: 'What stage is the implementation of the Higher Education Act? Is it true that there are problems with titles and titles? If he is, when and how is he going to solve that question?' After all these intense debates, and there's a problem with these titles and titles, there's no rule can be passed, people can't agree, as far as I know, some problem is. To tell you the truth, I've been thinking about whether to bring this out publicly at the session or not, but I'm afraid it wasn't a mistake to pass this law at all. This is ugly what I'm saying, but if we're going to reverse the situation in some area, then we don't have to pass the laws. I think it is not so and it is good that we have passed this law and that we should give strong support to finally implement this and apply it. Because we can't take the whole generation getting out of our fiancés at the university without having a proper degree and not being able to do the job. Here is the minister who is seriously dealing with this issue, I would ask him to answer this question to provide one piece of information about this so that we can discuss if we have time in this meeting, if not then those who sit in the next session certainly discuss it here in Parliament. The second question is also the question of the BiH Election Commission and the BiH Council of Ministers, and it reads: "Is the election day in BiH going to form polling stations abroad and outside the official seats of diplomatic and consular offices?" This would be significant because a large number of voters live outside the office's headquarters. Under the law, the electoral law, amendments and additions to the electoral law, there is the possibility of voting 10 in diplomatic and consular representations abroad. These are therefore embassies and consulates, but in the diplomatic practice of the DKP is located where a DKP official is located in accordance with the laws of the country in which the DKP is located. This means that if the BiH Election Commission and the foreign ministry in co-operation with the countries domiciled agreements that polling stations can be and where larger voters are located, not in the official headquarters of the DKP, it is considered a diplomatic-consular representation on that day. Take America for example, we have a DKP there in Washington, Chicago and New York, as far as I know, but let's say a large population of BiH voters lives, for example. in other parts of America, e.g. in St. Louis. These people don't pay to get on a plane and go to Washington or Chicago, and a few tens of thousands of people are there. I guess it would be logical to organise by the Election Commission and this ministry and St. Louis on that day of voting for these people so let me just say this as an example, and in this way actually meet the purpose of amending the law in this respect. Because, I repeat, it's not just the DKP where the official seat is, but the DKP is where the officer is at a given time,
ParlaMint-BA_2010-07-14-0.u36021	Time! SECHIFIC
ParlaMint-BA_2010-07-14-0.u36022	: in accordance with the rules of the country, the host country. I'm sorry, thank you very much.
ParlaMint-BA_2010-07-14-0.u36023	Thank you. The next is distinguished representative Šemsudin Mehmedović.
ParlaMint-BA_2010-07-14-0.u36024	Madam Chairman, ladies and gentlemen of the Parliament, distinguished guests, I welcome you. I have three short questions. First, the director of the Direct Taxation Directorate, Mr. Kemal Čaušević, said: 'On the basis of which the law or act prohibits cargo motor vehicles with BH registration marks from being able to drive trailers, wagons and similar to foreign registration marks across the BH border?' Such a procedure has become commonplace by the Customs Workers of the Administration and it has been carried out by the Administration for a long time, which in the absence of work for carriers provides mainly for foreign transport companies, which damages domestic transport activity. The second question is to the Council of Ministers, the Ministry of Justice: 'On the basis of which rules and under whose order the Ministry of Justice interferes with the independence of the Foreign Chamber of Commerce of BiH, as well as its employees Halilagić and Musić Fazila, as presented by the Minister of Foreign Trade and Economic Relations: as if it were an administrative organisation within the composition of this ministry, it is a matter of urgency which has already been prepared?- I'm sorry. Isn't this process by the Justice Department destructive to the future of this important institution for bh. the economy, and what is the law on its own? Why did the Ministry of Justice engage in incompetent activities, in violation of the law, not at all engage in 11 essential problems and why did it violate the rules of administrative procedure, and how does the Council of Ministers intend to stop disintegration processes in this very important institution without harming their independence?" And the third question to the director of SIPA: "What is SIPA, i.e. The regional office of Sarajevo that territorially covers the area has done to prevent a terrorist act in Bugojn?" According to the OSA, they have also notified all relevant police agencies of the existence of danger. Namely, this is the third terrorist act in the area of this centre, the regional centre of Sarajevo, and was preceded by an explosion at the mesar of President Izetbegović and a terrorist act in Fis Vitez, if you remember. Is there a question of responsibility raised between the Regional Centre and the head of the Counterterrorism Department? According to the findings, SIPA's director wishes to improve these two responsible persons, although it is obvious that there is part of responsibility for not taking measures under his jurisdiction. Thank you.
ParlaMint-BA_2010-07-14-0.u36025	Thank you. The next is Honourable representative Selim Bešlagić.
ParlaMint-BA_2010-07-14-0.u36026	Dear Chairman, esteemed colleagues and colleagues, honored guests, on the basis of Article 8. Rules of Procedure of the BiH Parliamentary Assembly's House of Representatives I submit an initiative to the BiH Parliamentary Assembly's House of Representatives. Annex 2. Dayton Agreement (Agreements and Transitional Provisions), point 2. The continuity of the legal rules says as follows: "All laws, regulations and judicial procedures in force in BiH's territory at the time of the Constitution's entry into force will remain in force to the extent that they are not contrary to the Constitution, until otherwise determined by the competent authority of BiH." So, BiH's competent authority. Namely, because of the frequent proposal for new laws that already exist on the basis of Annex 2nd, I propose an initiative for the BiH Ministry of Justice to deliver laws that should be applied in BiH by the continuity of the legal rules under this article. Secondly, I propose that the BiH Ministry of Justice carry out a detailed list of these laws and propose amendments to certain laws that are still in force under aneks 2. Thank you.
ParlaMint-BA_2010-07-14-0.u36027	Thank you. The next is the distinguished representative Azra Alajbegović. 12
ParlaMint-BA_2010-07-14-0.u36028	Dear Chairman, ladies and gentlemen, I have a few questions. I'll try to be brief. First question to the Council of Ministers: 'Why aren't requirements for citizenship being resolved? Not how they'll get rid of it, but why don't they get rid of it, because, according to my information, there are over 20 requests that haven't been resolved in a long time?" The second question is, "When will the parliamentary procedure be introduced laws for environmental protection, since these are our laws that are a condition for us to travel to the EU?" Then I have a question to ask the Agency for Medicinal Products and Medical Devices, which reads: 'When will the Agency for Medicinal Products and Medical Devices begin with the full application of the law, especially when it comes to the implementation of laws and members of the pharmacovigilance segment? Then, which is why the implementation of the adopted systematization has not been approached so far, i.e. opening internal and external competitions to fill jobs at the Medicines and Medical Devices Agency? Please provide me with information on the following situation. The information from the market suggests that more than 50% of the medicinal products that have been recognised on the basis of solutions issued at entity level have incomplete or almost no registration documentation, that a large number of large-scale drugs do not meet the basic conditions for operating defined by law. Has the Agency carried out the assessment and certification procedure in accordance with the deadlines laid down in this law? If not, why not, because this raises the question of equal competition on the single market for medicines in BiH? Why does the Council of Ministers, in addition to the ongoing problem on the market of medicinal products in BiH, first and foremost because of the unregulated situation in the pricing of medicinal products, not access to compliance with the law of the defined obligation to determine and determine how prices of medicinal products are designed, as well as how to report on the prices of medicinal products?" Then I would ask the Federal Ministry of Health, i.e. the Institute of Health Insurance and Reassurance of the Federation: 'How could it happen that on 26 June 2010, the Institute of Health Insurance and Reinsurance issued a tender for betaferon, which is a protected name, for the treatment of multiple sclerosis, rather than interferons, in order to be logical and understandable, given that the Commission or the Commission of the Federal Ministry of Health is formed as a Commission for Treatment of interferons rather than betaferons?' Such a concise tender has led to the inability to treat patients with interferons with three, while at the same time favouring one manufacturer, which is unacceptable. In this context, I am also initiating an initiative to the Federal Ministry of Health that the Commission for Multiple Sclerosis Treatment of interferons, as it has been established, be renamed as 'the Commission for Multiple Sclerosis Immunomodulators', which would be consistent with the new 13 concepts and a guide to the treatment of multiple sclerosis, which would in some way spend these three minutes. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-BA_2010-07-14-0.u36029	Thank you. The next is Honorable Representative Adem Huskić.
ParlaMint-BA_2010-07-14-0.u36030	Thank you, Mr. Chairman. Dear colleagues, members of the Council of Ministers, guests, as Sado said, those below have more questions, and I have three. First question: "When will the State Aid Act be referred to the parliamentary procedure?" I asked this question at the 74th session of this house that was held about March 24th, that's four months ago. I haven't got the answer yet. As is known, the deadline for the adoption of this law was 1 July of this year, i.e. two years after the entry into force of the Interim Agreement. Since the adoption of this law was a basic condition under the Interim Agreement, which allowed certain trade concessions by the EU, media have seen speculation that we as a state have lost half a billion marks. I can't argue whether it's true or not, but it's true that we were or that someone was irresponsible, so I ask: When will the law be passed and who is responsible for it and will anyone other than the citizens of BiH suffer the consequences of such an irresponsible relationship with the state? Second question: "How much does the Foreign Ministry pay monthly to diplomats of apartments and do they have documentation for these costs?" According to some information, the knowledge I have, diplomats receive half their salary for an apartment that should be such that normal diplomatic life can be carried out in it. However, it is a very common practice for our diplomats to hire garages, so they save themselves 1,000 to 2,000 euros a month, while blamming the state that pays them. As banal cost restrictions are introduced on one side, so say the people who work there, such as toilet paper and stuff, money at the same time, legally, this is how they take it from the state and put it in their own pocket, and I'm saying that the state is blaspheming. Well, that's why I suggest that the Foreign Ministry request a written contract with the landlord from all diplomats, who receive funds for rent in this way. I would like to refer the third question to the Regulatory Commission for Electricity of BiH, the Federation, the RS, and the Ombudsman for Consumer Protection in BiH. The following questions are: ‘Why do citizens as final customers who want to join the distribution network have to submit requests and re-pay taxes even though they have already done so on the same facility and are registered as customers?’ 14 And secondly: ‘Why are the prices of electricity tax differ dramatically from 50 marks in Brcko District to 1,800 marks in Tuzla, there in Tuzla Electrodistribution?’ Reason: The problems mentioned in these questions concern returnees in particular, as the most vulnerable category, in pre-war facilities and objects of citizens where electricity was previously excluded, not by the owner's fault. Exports and taxes are enormously high and citizens have already paid them once and are registered as consumers, i.e. they have a consumer code. This is a very common phenomenon. I've had a lot of people complaining about this and I think it's a serious problem and we need to get an answer to why that is.
ParlaMint-BA_2010-07-14-0.u36031	Thank you. The next is distinguished representative Husein Nanić.
ParlaMint-BA_2010-07-14-0.u36032	I thank you, Chairman. Let me ask you two questions today. The first question is the Federal Ministry of Finance and it's about the next one. In view of the fact that UNA Bijac addressed this Ministry of Refunding paid funds based on the old foreign exchange savings paid by the UNA Bank on the basis of a decision to execute the bank's real estate and since the UNA Bank has been under forced management for many years, and that the refunding of the funds requested would significantly help the bank's business, I ask the Ministry: "Will it also be able to refund the funds requested to the UNA Bank?" The second question is for the Ministry of Human Rights and Refugees and the BiH Ministry of Justice, I ask: "Is there an initiative in this mandate or in the past mandates to use religious and ethnic symbols in BiH in a certain way regulate?" In this sense, in the parliamentary procedure, I will refer a draft of a law that I would also like the Ministry to be manifested about it and I think there is enough time for us to finish this story in this term, if there is a political will, to pass a law on the use of ethnic and religious symbols in BiH, which would lay down rules for the use of names and symbols belonging to a nation or religion, which would define a ban on the use of people's names in the names of public goods and public spaces, as well as a ban on the use of ethnic and religious symbols in public goods and public spaces. The aim of this law is to prevent national and religious intolerance and intolerance and to ensure the equality and co-existence of all peoples in BiH. I appreciate that BiH needs this law, that certain rules need to be adopted to define the use of religious and ethnic symbols in BiH. Thank you. 15
ParlaMint-BA_2010-07-14-0.u36033	Thank you. I don't have any more logs. I'm closing this agenda. Moving to the 3rd point of the agenda: Ad. 3. Proposal for a Law on Amendments and Supplements to the Act on the Protection of Secret Information, Proposer: Council of Ministers of BiH, with Joint Committee on Oversight over the work of the BiH Intelligence and Security Agency At the 79th session of the House, held on 16. Six. In 2010, the House decided, in accordance with Article 112(3), on a negative report by the Joint Commission which was negative for the second time. The House did not accept this report, and the proposal for a law was returned to the Joint Commission for the purpose of drawing up a new report. The Commission submitted a negative report on 13 the third time. Seven. 2010 Today, in accordance with Article 112(4), we decide on this report. If we accept this report, the bill has been rejected; and if we do not accept it, we will conclude that the legislative procedure is being suspended. I'd like to point out that we're 9. Seven. In 2010, the Council of Ministers concluded on the amendment to the bill. I'm opening a debate on the Joint Committee's report. Dear First Vice-President Beriz Belkić.
ParlaMint-BA_2010-07-14-0.u36035	Dear colleagues and colleagues, almost after explaining the chairman, when it comes to the procedure and the fate of this law, there is almost nothing in particular to discuss, the result is certain, or the procedure will be terminated, or the law will be brought down, but I need to point to two or three things. So, first of all, if you noticed, if you didn't look, the Council of Ministers delivered a conclusion to us, this is a newspaper for me, which rejects the amendment. So the amendments refuse or accept this parliament, and the Council of Ministers gives its opinion, supports, does not support, acceptable, unacceptable. It seems to me, too, that this procedural practice is not in line with the position of the Council of Ministers when it comes to this issue. It would be good to inform the Secretary-General that we need an opinion, not a refusal or acceptance of the amendment. That's one thing. The chairman did not remind you, here I remind you, we have also received the opinion of the Ministry of Security which the Council of Ministers accepted and has delivered to us as my position and I want those who were not prepared to support these amendments and the additions of the Code on the Protection of Secret Information to remind them of the consequences that we have produced by failing to adopt this law. So, first, it was necessary from the point of view of compliance with European standards and, in the opinion of the Council of Ministers, this is about a minimum of compliance with European standards, too, and I am speaking to these amendments and additions according to what I read from the Council of Ministers' views, of course, based on the opinion of the Ministry of Security, but the Council of Ministers accepted it. These amendments and 16 additions were also, as I understand it, a premise for the adoption of certain sublaws, which is not possible by adopting them. Also, these security arrangements stemming from this agreement with the EU, which is also a very important thing for data exchanges, etc. And finally, the Council of Ministers very explicitly argues that there is no extension of the Ministry of Security's jurisdiction. The rejected amendments, in a way, went and were motivated, one of these amendments was motivated by the proposal that the Council of Ministers was convinced that through these amendments and complemented this ministry in an indirect way to obtain new powers but, behold, the Council of Ministers has denied. So here I finally express my regret, exactly what I was talking about, which we missed the opportunity to produce these consequences that I was talking about.
ParlaMint-BA_2010-07-14-0.u36036	Thank you. The next is Honourable representative Sadik Bahtić.
ParlaMint-BA_2010-07-14-0.u36037	Thank you. I welcome colleagues and fellow Members of Parliament, colleagues from the executive and others. I am a member of the Joint Commission for the Control of the work of the Intelligence and Security Agency, and as a member of this commission, I have attended a series of seminars and workshops organised by this commission, from Neum to Bijeljina. There's nowhere we haven't been. And, the proposed amendments and additions to the Code on the Protection of Secret Information, we agreed without any objections. So, all the members of this committee and the chairman of this commission, Mirko Okolić. That's why I'm calling on my colleagues to pass this law. counterpart Belkić said this is one of the very important laws, the consequences are inconclusive on the European path. I will go further and say that this is a bad message to Brussels, especially NATO, and that those who do not support this law, in my opinion, want to slow BiH's entry into NATO, and we know what it means to join NATO: NATO umbrella, NATO security, political, economic, any other, foreign investment, employment, public works. In my opinion, I have always said, joining NATO is more important to me and even before the EU. This law, amendments and additions to the Law on the Protection of Secret Information, has already been said to be a minimum and is in line with EU and NATO standards. The proposed amendments have not been accepted either by the Council of Ministers or by the Commission for Oversight over the work of the OSA. I will also point out here, and you have received a letter saying that, during the last NATO inspection, NATO's Security Office, between February 8th and... 2010, it has proposed to ensure the integrity of security confidence, i.e. to bring about changes and additions to the Code on the Protection of Secret Information that are in line with NATO standards. It's important to point out that this has passed all the procedures. I believe that we should rise above politics if we are all for the European path, and we have said that we are here a hundred times from all policy options, that the public, 85% of the public, supports BiH's European path to the EU and NATO, we should listen to the voice of the public. I don't think there's any reason why we shouldn't adopt this law today. Thank you. 17
ParlaMint-BA_2010-07-14-0.u36038	Thank you. Next is Honorable Representative Mirko Okolić.
ParlaMint-BA_2010-07-14-0.u36039	Thank you, Mr. Chairman. Dear fellow Members of Parliament, representatives of the Council of Ministers, NGOs, international organisations, representatives of information funds, dear guests, here, I will say a little bit about the history of the procedure of this law and I am obliged to say it for the sake of the public and to know that we are being given in the parliamentary procedure of certain laws and how much it seems to care for the law to pass. I must say that we have had on the Joint Commission several times this law, first in regular procedure, then returned from this home, and that we have tried to make efforts to revise or harmonise the amendment with the text given by the amendment bringers and legislators. We didn't have an amendment promoter on that committee, but we had an authorised person, and we didn't have an authorised person in front of the promoter until the last session. The Council of Ministers did not deign to give an answer until the last session, nor to give its representative to this committee. There were always people who were neither guilty nor obliged to come here on someone's orders, who couldn't plead their position on this law and their position on amendments. Well, Mr. Belkić noticed, and he took my word when he said that the Council of Ministers cannot write and reject amendments in this form, but he can simply accept these amendments in his text as positive or as amendments that can be incorporated or say that they cannot be incorporated into that text. But here's the thing, I won't talk about it anymore, but you can see one really insecure thing about it. Furthermore, I am interested in how, and I will probably get an answer, the Serbian representatives voted in the Council of Ministers and whether they were outvoted there and whether they had any good will in the Ministry of Security and the Council of Ministers to revise possibly these amendments with the amendment's proposal and to reach that law. It seems to me that that was not the case and that this law by the motionor was proposed either by a tendency or by a tendency to pass or let it fall, it is about the same to us, and while the amendmentor was probably waiting for its amendments to be accepted or possibly revised. I am truly sorry that this law did not experience the fate of a consensus on these three members who are controversial. Amendment I covers one member, amandman II.. There were two members covered and it could have been done to make this law pass. But here, there wasn't a look of good faith either. We will have in force the law that is now in force and which will not bring about the end of the world unless the new law comes, but it would be better if the agreement had been reached and the law passed. I don't know how the House will be defined today, but there's no other option on the Joint Commission than for this committee to adopt its position as it has. That's it, thank you very much. 18
ParlaMint-BA_2010-07-14-0.u36040	Replica, the esteemed First Vice-President, Beriz Belkić.
ParlaMint-BA_2010-07-14-0.u36041	Well, you see, Mr. Okolić, it's a replica to you, so it's certain there won't be an end to the world, but it's certainly what I've been saying for a while. It is absolutely certain that we have missed the opportunity, that we have missed the opportunity to achieve minimum harmonisation with European standards, we have missed the opportunity to create a basis for sublegal acts in this area and we have missed the opportunity for these arrangements, security arrangements for data exchange, that is, the slowdown of these things is certain.
ParlaMint-BA_2010-07-14-0.u36042	Replica, distinguished representative Mirko Okolić.
ParlaMint-BA_2010-07-14-0.u36043	Well, I also said that we lost a lot of what we didn't and that I'm sorry it didn't work out. But when I said it wasn't the end of the world, I meant that we and the other things that we need to coordinate and we didn't get along and this isn't the only one, let's say, the law that we need to align, but I finally said it wasn't the end of the world again, but it would have been or it was a good thing that they could have gotten along, and they could have. I'm saying it could, and I've already repeated it for the first time in the discussion, here's another time, and I think it's one big irresponsibility.
ParlaMint-BA_2010-07-14-0.u36044	Thank you. Next is Honorable Representative Slavko Jovičić.
ParlaMint-BA_2010-07-14-0.u36045	Thank you, Mr. Chairman. Dear colleagues and colleagues, representatives of the Council of Ministers, NGOs, of course, and the media, so here, Mr Okolić mostly told the genealogy of all these events. But I want to make it clear right now that no matter what fate this law today experiences at the vote that Parliament is not responsible for it. If we have two commissions, if we postpone two more, if this is constantly in the process, if we don't have an authorised representative of the legislator, if we keep asking them, if we appeal, if we demand that those at the Council of Ministers see what the fate of these two amendments is, is it possible to correct with the Proposer, if the international community and representatives sit there and they can say it anyway, and then they send us a letter that this is very important. Well, we know it's important, if it didn't matter, he says, we knew on this committee as soon as it came into procedure that it was important, that it didn't matter we wouldn't have it. Well then, the witness is Mr. Chairman, the witnesses are colleagues who are members of this committee together, we have done everything and prayed. So they invite us, send us a man who comes and explains something, but he has no authority from the minister, not that he has no authority from the Council of Ministers, that there is no Council of Ministers, that there is no conclusion of the Council of Ministers. 19 Here is today, and if we wanted to speed up the procedure for us to try, when we have failed on this committee, on the Council of Ministers, to take over from Parliament, who we have here a representative who might say on behalf of the Council of Ministers -- here's what we could accept in part, here's what we're going to coordinate, here's what we might leave behind. And it was everyone's goal, believe me, to get through this. I don't like these stories in advance that are constantly forced. If the law fails, the logical thing is immediately the label and address known: the RS did not want us to because we were proposing these amendments. And what is their essence? The point was, and indeed it was possible in the first wave, and it could have been agreed, that the main agency in charge of verifying people who must either have certain jobs or jobs, and also politicians and functions, who come into possession of various acts that will come from the NATO Pact, from the EU, who have the character of confidentiality, strict confidentiality, documents that no one, perhaps not a member of the commission, let alone the public, or Parliament. That's where they sit. And what happened? Of course, that agency that has the only authority to carry out these checks, they're afraid of people of everything. The abuse is over my head in this country. If you don't like someone visually, politically, if a pet is someone, a favorite, he'll add anything there, he has the right to write in Sarajevo that it's not like a job that connects us to what he's doing, but that's how the law predicts that a new stuffed biography is made for him and that it's impossible for him to do. This caused fundamental doubts, which caused fear at first in the work of this commission. And I want to say publicly: if anyone wanted to, if anyone had a wish, if anyone tried, if anyone did everything possible and impossible, they were members of this committee. We prayed three times, I don't know how many times. A man comes to us, says a representative of this ministry and who tells us something, but says I have no authority. The next time someone comes, they turn up a small crew, they say, "I don't have a special one right now." So, guys, what do we do? So then you asked, and you were very correct and you were from the College, giving us one possibility, another possibility, a business thing that was possible, did this. And then what have we done individually on this committee? The representatives of the NATO Pact, the EU, we say, people, what is your request, which is a minimum that we cannot go under, and you say, here, quite a line. They don't know either, it's your business. When we get to some of our stuff, then he says it's none of your business, it's ours. Now we've never known which is ours, theirs, this one, that one. And that's why we're in this situation today with a very important law that apparently doesn't seem so important right now. But there is no access to the NATO Pact, there is no EU, no institution of people who will be authorised, because they will be carried out all possible and impossible checks from the Chukundjeda and I don't know who to know who that man is with who they're going to negotiate with. They won't negotiate with anyone. Of course, and I repeat and conclude, the basic fear and the fear of clearing it up and demystifying it is what Sarajevo is, when I say Sarajevo I mean our institutions, don't get me wrong, so the BiH institutions, that competent agency had the only authority and the ability to say -- that can and can't. Now, it's been left discreetly right, so I'll say it subjectively sometimes, sometimes objectively, that someone assesses what happened to me personally, here's my example, but we're not going into individual cases now and we're not dragging it around. I mean this law, not to think, it won't get support today, it's logical, and this isn't blackmail, just because we didn't want to get along and change just a few maybe words or sentences, and we didn't have an adequate proposal from the Council of Ministers. This is where the Minister of Security doesn't answer anything, he couldn't say ahead of this ministry. We asked for the Council of Ministers' position, and what they did, here you saw the amendments and I don't know which procedure they entered unauthorized, instead of leaving it to us and sitting with us. And prayed and called upon everyone. Here's all the members of this committee are witnesses, so if we've ever done anything, we've been working on this law. And today, 20 when he gets the fate of what he will gain will not be accepted, normally, MPs from the RS, the SNSD guilty of not entering the NATO Pact. There's no way to talk about it.
ParlaMint-BA_2010-07-14-0.u36046	Replica, the esteemed representative of Šemsudin Mehmedović.
ParlaMint-BA_2010-07-14-0.u36047	As she says, "one empty, there's nothing in the other," so is the fate of this law today, and I'm surprised there's so much debate about this law, whatever the outcome of the law is, the law has fallen. But I want to correct Mr. Jovičić's guilty allegations, a respected representative, who says he has made a lot of efforts to reach a positive opinion of this committee. This isn't true. At the last session of this commission, we had all the conditions met and he was an authorised promoter, we had, meaning the position of the Council of Ministers and the position of the competent ministry. Therefore, we have had enough time to deliver to the Parliamentary Assembly, i.e. to this House a positive opinion on this amendment and the addition of the Code on the Protection of Secret Information. So that's one aspect. The second aspect, i.e. the consequences of the non-acceptance, you will see in one document here, at one point in the agenda when considering these terrorist acts in Bugojn, in the plan of measures by one of the agencies, or the competent ministry, is precisely the adoption of this law. Exactly, this is the replacement of the thesis Mr. Jovičić is talking about, there will be abuse by, neither do I, the Intelligence and Security Agency, that and that system of verification, etc. There will be abuse of information that unauthorized persons are coming to, and that's the problem. And I'm afraid this is actually preventing or, at the very least, reducing the power to fight terrorism. So here's why I needed to discuss it this way. Thank you.
ParlaMint-BA_2010-07-14-0.u36048	The next is Honorable Representative Adem Huskić.
ParlaMint-BA_2010-07-14-0.u36049	Thank you, Mr. Chairman. I'm not a member of the OSA's work surveillance committee, and I didn't think to report a good part of what I said, in fact, was said by counterpart Mehmedović because he probably applied for the replica, so he got his word earlier. I will also say something about this law and in the context of this event in Bugojn. Look, we had a Defense and Security Commission 5. 7th and made two conclusions and adopted. The first conclusion, he said, "It is the responsibility of the BiH Ministry of Security to co-operate with police and other agencies, the OSA, the prosecution... make up a plan of activity, a proposal for measures to eliminate these extremist groups," here's what I call them. And that was 5. Seven. The Ministry of Security is making a proposal for measures to co-operate with other agencies. And point 2, he says: 'Accelerantly speed up the procedure for the adoption of laws that have not been adopted by the Parliamentary Assembly and the Proposal for a Law on Amendments and Supplements to the Act on the Protection of Secret Information'. At a session of this commission on Monday, everyone, I think, the representatives of the 21st law enforcement agencies mentioned this as a problem. And after that, this committee accepts the conclusions and says in its conclusions, which is what we have in the material, in the Joint Commission Report, conclusion number one. "The Joint Defence and Security Commission supports the proposals of the BiH Ministry of Security and Police Agency measures related to the terrorist attack," etc., that doesn't matter. So, the Defence and Security Commission is ordering the Ministry of Security to make a proposal for measures in co-operation with the agencies. They are making a proposal for measures among which the second measure is the adoption of this law, which is not only the position of this ministry but also of all law enforcement agencies. The Commission accepts that, and now we're where we are. And I don't think we should be two-faced. On the one hand, we ask the Ministry of Security to do something, on the other hand we don't give him or his agencies the tools that he needs to do his job. I think we should figure out what we want here. Shall we fight for greater security against extremists or here are Wahhabi and these other groups dealing with terrorism, and in order to fight effectively we must have this law. And now watch what really is the biggest paradox here. It's a schizophrenic situation, those who most attack institutions not to fight and attack a particular group, here's to being so general, and you'll understand what I think, politicians, because on this committee they're mentioned by the name and last name of politicians and party leaders, Bošnjak all in order, who are making obstructions, which do not express political will. Here, I think this is the best test of political will we're up to it. So this is a test of political will, in my opinion. Is there, in BiH, a political will to catch up with terrorism or does it not exist? This is one of the elements of the struggle. Here, whoever is against this law, by my understanding, shows a lack of political will, one who supports the law, shows political will. And I don't think we should discuss it anymore and play hide-and-seek and transfer responsibility where it's gone. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-BA_2010-07-14-0.u36050	Thank you. The next is distinguished representative Šefik Džaferović.
ParlaMint-BA_2010-07-14-0.u36051	Just for a minute, Mr. Chairman. It is a law whose BiH content requires those whom we want to join. The problem of the protection of classified data is primarily related to NATO's path and journey to the EU, visa liberalisation, etc. The content of the law is in fact dictated by those who are asking BiH to do so in order to be part of that society and this club. I can't accept any amendments, because that's the opposite of the content required here. I think we made a mistake, and when we changed this law earlier, in terms of MPs when we made an exception. But, well, we got some consent from the people who care about it, so they said, well, that wouldn't be contrary to NATO standards. The Council of Ministers unanimously identified this as a proposal. And it is known that neither of these amendments can be accepted because they are changing the content that is required of us. I'm asking my colleagues just, Slavo, I mean, Mr. Jovičić, this is an alphabet, there's no further way. And if you want me to accept this, I can't, and neither can any of us. Let's get this over with, we got what we got from the Council of 22 ministers, let's vote it out and move on, because this isn't, I don't see any solution here that's against you, and affirmative for me or any of us. There is a general solution that concerns you and me and all of us in BiH, all 4 million. And let's go, people, let's not waste time on it, because this is the only way the country is gonna stand, and we're gonna get between ourselves here, to forgive the expression, right, and we're not gonna achieve anything. That's it, thank you.
ParlaMint-BA_2010-07-14-0.u36052	Thank you. Replica, distinguished representative Slavko Jovičić.
ParlaMint-BA_2010-07-14-0.u36053	It's just a replica to show our esteemed colleagues that we didn't want to. We wanted to, and now I'm going to publicly say that I'm demystifying all things: the main problem in this is that Banja Luka, when I say Banja Luka, I think the government of RS, the government in Banja Luka, mostly concerns the police and the MUP, has fear, has a fear that someone from Sarajevo will, by their signature, be final, which will no longer be able to appeal, on which there is no possibility of any other influences anyone, will be left without a job. When I say someone, it's not about the individual, it can be a group, it can be a whole sector in the police, and then the logical thing is that it's all connected in the chain when it's all fine-tuned that it's about the transfer of jurisdiction. I'm here to really say that this law shouldn't be about the transfer of jurisdiction from more than one thing, but we could, I repeat, where we made mistakes, not us, we could in the whole procedure, we had time, and it's really long this law, to change some things and to say what it is. Like, let me remind you, when it was this law, do we have the right to come into possession of some classified documents? Believe it or not, here's the truth, I'm a member of that commission, I've never filed a request or should I get some classified information. If everyone there is going to come into that boxing box and grab some secret information like a pillow and think about running away with it, he's wrong. I only suggested then, and that, fortunately, was adopted by Parliament, not to be underestimated by those operational workers who should be doing security checks on us, and we are overseeing their work. That was the point. So, in this law, I'm really honest with you, I'm saying regret, I'm expressing really, really, I can't say pain, for this time I've been praying, at least I've been looking for everyone I've ever known and I'm saying, people, let's just accept something, something to change to define that this goes away, but we haven't had a conversation with anyone on the other side. Four commissions, no one wanted to come to us who could give answers to clear questions. And then, for nothing, we wrapped ourselves up on this committee, returned to you college, gave you extra time, when we got here, so yesterday I wasn't at this committee's session, I had problems, yesterday, that we were doing it like five to twelve. Well, it wasn't possible. I don't know how this is gonna go. I wouldn't want the law to fall, but by all accounts, he'll fall. Do we have any more extras? I don't know who else can help us anymore, dear Bog, or I don't know who to say: people, let's do something else so you don't become a remethyling factor, but I don't want to be on that path of Euro-Atlantic integration. I really don't want to. It's not a demagogy. Thank you. 23
ParlaMint-BA_2010-07-14-0.u36054	No more reports. PEACE
ParlaMint-BA_2010-07-14-0.u36055	/no microphone turned on/
ParlaMint-BA_2010-07-14-0.u36056	Dear Representative Mirko Okolić, a replica most likely.
ParlaMint-BA_2010-07-14-0.u36057	Thank you, Chairman. Here's a replica to Mr. Huskić, he's not here, and somewhat to Mr. Šefik Džaferović. I ask the question: What does the Law on the Protection of Secret Information have to do with what is now in force and in the new form that we should possibly adopt with terrorism and these phenomena that are now happening and what happened in Bugojn? May Mr. Adem Huskić tell me which member he has made possible, which member is if we adopt a new law that would make it impossible. They're stories for little kids, sick. Mr Ahmetović, the minister of our esteemed, says and lists some four or five laws there that are a problem for terrorist action and that as these laws we have, there would be no such thing. And list the law, among other things, the law on the provision of legal aid has not been passed, and that is why a terrorist act took place in Bugojn and the law on the transport of ammunition and weapons. Here, I've singled out only two people who have nothing to do with terrorism, let someone prove to me that because of these two laws, what happened and why wouldn't it have happened if these two laws had been passed? Furthermore, what difference does it make, I asked myself a question, unless it's true what is being speculated in the media and the public these days, that a certain police executive office is family and in other ways related to people arrested in Bugojn for terrorist acts. Well, then it can be questioned that eventually OSA has given certain checks to certain people who are prone to helping these people in the case, neither do I, by giving the necessary information in the sense that they will be arrested and when they will be broken in, etc., etc. Today, it is said that many police officers are related to those who are participants and perpetrators of terrorist acts, etc. Whether permission will end up being granted by the Intelligence and Security Agency, or by a verifiable agency, or by a direct manager, that was the least important in all of this and could be brought into line with this law. The manager, if he gets a negative opinion from the Intelligence and Security Agency for someone he should possibly sign consent to obtain a security clearance, he'll have to imagine well whether it can be done etc., etc., and yet it's much easier to tell someone, if he's pushed, e, he won't get a permit and it's always easier to defend, etc., etc. I don't see any problem with that new law. Furthermore, we are asked here a question, in all these times after Bugojna, etc., parliamentarians and parliamentary commission, says what we can do when they have no documents, no driving licenses, no ID cards, say they do not recognise the BiH Court of Justice. What's the police asking me? Here, I'm asking you if I don't have papers right now, if they didn't recognize me and what would they do with me? Oh, they'd arrest me right away and bring me to the first police station and ask me where you came from, how you got in touch with the D.O.P. in Doboy and see if it was me, 24.
ParlaMint-BA_2010-07-14-0.u36058	Time! PEACE
ParlaMint-BA_2010-07-14-0.u36059	I'm finishing up now, so on. So that's something that's all defined by law, and that can't be an obstacle to not doing business in keeping with the prevention of terrorist acts in BiH. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-BA_2010-07-14-0.u36060	Replica, the esteemed representative of Šemsudin Mehmedović.
ParlaMint-BA_2010-07-14-0.u36061	I apologize to my colleagues for wasting our time on...
ParlaMint-BA_2010-07-14-0.u36062	You've moved on to the second item of the agenda.
ParlaMint-BA_2010-07-14-0.u36063	Yeah, but I have to react. It is true that certain officials, here, are specifically the head of the Regional Centre of Sarajevo in relation to certain ministers from the Council of Ministers, and I am responsible for saying that there is an obstruction of the fight against terrorism. And this is one form of obstruction - the passing of this law. I, here, fellow Okolić, can explain, in four eyes, what kind of connection this secret data protection law has to do with this problem, but not to burden the entire Parliament, here, I call on him to take care of it in the break. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-BA_2010-07-14-0.u36064	Replica, distinguished representative Momčilo Novaković.
ParlaMint-BA_2010-07-14-0.u36065	You see, first of all, I think we're discussing something that should have been over a long time ago. Look, there's no way this law stays alive. Accepted or not accepted this report, this law is gone. And now we,..................................... Business? BOY We're having a debate here for about half an hour, of course. Of course, in that debate, in our custom, we have moved to some other areas, points, etc. Well, now we've found out that we passed this law so there wouldn't be terrorism. Please, I would really like it if we here when we discuss saying, here, this member in amendments to the Law on the Protection of Secret Information will disable terrorism or prevent it, that and that. It is not correct, I will try to avoid 25 going to another area, it is not a correct responsibility for terrorism to lay here on this Parliament and on this committee. It's not correct from colleagues. Besides, we're gonna have to at some point and sometimes well, it means good to think about everything, because of us. Not here, but in BiH, all of them. What you're going to say is that we're guilty because we haven't passed this law on the protection of classified information, when I say to me, I mean all of us here, because this law doesn't reject one, but the willingness of all of us to find a solution or not to find a solution refuses both this and many other laws; that we're going to say that some of us here are guilty of what happened in Bugojn because we didn't adopt, among other things, and this law on the protection of classified information, will not prevent a new 'Bugoya' in this country. Therefore, we have missed the opportunity to adopt this law, we need to find some Council of Ministers to propose another law, there is both a business and a legal obligation, and a possibility, and let's have a debate on that second law. When we discuss terrorism, we will discuss terrorism, of course, in a more serious way than we have tried now within this agenda. Thank you.
ParlaMint-BA_2010-07-14-0.u36067	Replica, distinguished representative Adem Huskić.
ParlaMint-BA_2010-07-14-0.u36068	Thank you. I don't think any law itself will stop terrorism. And no one's naive to even think about it and say it. _________(?) A little louder. ADEM No Niko is naive to think and to say that one law, any law, will stop terrorism. Neither did anyone say that nor, I mean, he had it in mind. But look, if people who know the job, I don't know that job, I have to trust people who know, who are experts at it, if they say it's one of the ways to fight, I have no reason not to believe them. And that's why I support it. Here, thank you.
ParlaMint-BA_2010-07-14-0.u36070	Thank you. No more reports, closing the hearing. Moving to point 4. Ad. 4. Proposal for a Law amending the Law on Administrative Disputes of Bosnia and Herzegovina – Proposer: Council of Ministers of BiH (second reading) 26 At the 80th session of the House, held on 30. Six. In 2010, the bill was adopted in the first reading. The report was submitted by the relevant Constitutional Judicial Commission 8. Seven. 2010 I'm opening a debate on the draft law in the second reading. Dear Representative Šefik Džaferović.
ParlaMint-BA_2010-07-14-0.u36072	Mr. Chairman, as far as I'm aware of this agenda and as far as I'm aware of my relationship today with the full agenda, I think this law alone has a chance to be adopted today at the House of Representatives and I'm up to pay my respects. A small short law that introduces more order in the area of control and residence of foreigners in BiH, deadlines according to the administrative dispute, according to the Court of BiH. And here, I call upon the House, there were no amendments, to support this law in a second reading. Thank you.
ParlaMint-BA_2010-07-14-0.u36073	Thank you. There are no others reported, I'm closing the hearing. Moving to point 5. Ad. 5. Proposal for a law on international and inter-entity road transport – Proposer: Council of Ministers of BiH (first reading) The BiH Council of Ministers passed the law in a regular procedure of 16. Six. 2010 The Constitutional Foundation Opinion delivered 25. Six. 2010 The Committee for Transport and Communications, responsible for the principles, delivered its opinion on 28. Six. 2010 You have also received the Opinion of the Directorate for European Integration, delivered 9. Seven. 2010 I'm opening a debate on the bill in the first reading. First Deputy Chairman Beriz Belkić.
ParlaMint-BA_2010-07-14-0.u36075	Dear colleagues and colleagues, therefore, despite what I say, I will support the law, or the club will support this law in the first reading. But there was likely a lack of synchronisation of the timing, so the Council of Ministers proposed and our commission obviously did not have an opinion of the Directorate for European Integration. So, this is the first time, as far as I can see, perhaps the second time that, in addition to the usual matrix that we get from the Directorate for European Integration that says that matter is not regulated by legally binding EU acts, this time we get Opinion 27 of the Directorate which indicates that solutions in this law only partially and in some situations do hardly meet existing European standards, so to speak, or does not comply with the law with European legislation. And, of course, reminds us that this is our commitment to the Stabilisation and Association Agreement and the Interim Agreement, etc. So, I made the most of it, of course, and I, as an MP and our club, will do to try to fix this, but it would be good, because obviously this opinion was not available to the Council of Ministers when the proposal was established, it would be good for the Council of Ministers to look again in this procedure which is ahead of us to try to agree together with the amendments the suggestions of the Directorate for European Integration. So I am not talking about personal views, but about the assessment of our institution in charge of monitoring the consistency of our legislation with the European one. But here, I had a need to point out that we have a non-compliance problem here.
ParlaMint-BA_2010-07-14-0.u36076	Thank you. The next is distinguished representative Šemsudin Mehmedović.
ParlaMint-BA_2010-07-14-0.u36077	Although part of the discussion has already been said by the esteemed First Vice-President Belkić, the Directorate for European Integration has given an opinion with a lot of reservations, i.e. not to say negatively, because this law is not in line with European principles, and for this reason I have asked the Commission for an opinion either from the Council of Ministers or from the Directorate as to whether one law can be defined both inter-entity and international road transport. Unfortunately, we have not received that answer so far, so here I am asking a question as well as Mr. Belkić's discussion, the SDA Club will probably support the first reading and expect that the second reading should be made manifest against these principle issues. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-BA_2010-07-14-0.u36078	No more reports. So I'm closing the debate on point 5. Proposal for a law on international and inter-entity road transport. Moving to point 6. Ad. Six. Proposal for a Law amending the Framework Law on Higher Education in Bosnia and Herzegovina – Proposers: Members of the SDP Club (first reading) 28 It's about first reading. Proposed by the SDP Club MPs. The Constitutional Commission gave its opinion on constitutional basis and principles 8. Seven. We also got the Opinion of the Directorate for European Integration, but as I said a little bit. But here, I'm opening a debate. The first one was Mrs Nermina Zaimović-Uzunović-Uzunovic. Here you go.
ParlaMint-BA_2010-07-14-0.u36080	Thank you very much, Your Honor. My colleagues and colleagues, here, our club has sent for the third time amendments to the Framework Law on Higher Education in BiH. Namely, this law is a framework law that tries to set up a framework for the development of higher education in BiH. The fact is that we are not very far away about the development of higher education if we look at its quality and look at what has been achieved. The second fact is that there have been many, many higher education institutions that are not in this country to honor us. However, there are some small things in this Framework Law on Higher Education that we can change and make higher education much better than it is and that the World Bank does not give us the same report as it is, in which it is very negatively related to the state of higher education, that is, the outcome that our higher education gives. So it's something new that we've got as a way out of our quality of higher education. For this reason, the Club, among other things, has given two amendments to this law to the SDP. The first refers to Article 15, which provides for the majority of seven to 11 members of the board of directors of higher education institutions to appoint a founder. In fact, when most were said, he said at least one third. When you say at least one third, then it can be one half and two thirds and can mostly be all appointed by the founders. If you name them all by the founders, then it means you can't talk about university autonomy anymore, you can't talk to anyone in the world about academic freedoms and academic self-government, which is the basic principles of the Bologna Process that everyone signed together, both the entity and all the cantons, since constitutional competences are in higher education on the entity and cantons. However, the Framework Law may arrange for this number of at least one-third to be defined as not more than one-third, which means that we limit the number of board members appointed by the founders, leaving greater freedom to the academic community to do so on their own. For example, in the surrounding countries and the rapper were our countries around us, so Serbia and Croatia, for example in Serbia, the University Council consists of two-thirds of the representatives of higher education institutions and one-third of the students and representatives of the founders. In Croatia, one half of the Council is appointed by the University Council and a sixth is appointed by the founder, local community and the Chamber of Commerce. It's similar in Montenegro, not to mention. So, we propose this amendment to maintain and respect the basic principles of higher education, which is a recommendation, if it is not a directive, which is a recommendation of all European norms and charters, so it is a practice in the EU that our higher education be autonomous as well. 29 What else do I want to say? That all cantons were very ready immediately to do this by immediately naming, according to this law, the boards of directors of the university who are in their jurisdiction and today we have fully politicised higher education in which there is no autonomy of decision-making. And that can be one of the reasons, and it certainly is one of the reasons that contributes and does not solve what is the task of higher education, which is to create a generation that will be competitive in the European labour market and make this country better than it is today. I am not going to talk again about students' rights because it is likely that fellow Denis Bećirović will do so, so I will let this second amendment explain it. Otherwise, I have my own explanation. Thank you.
ParlaMint-BA_2010-07-14-0.u36081	We know that already. Denis Bećirović.
ParlaMint-BA_2010-07-14-0.u36082	Here, as Professor Nermina Zaimović Uzonović, we agreed on behalf of the club that, as the chairman said, let us explain this bill. First of all, it should be noted that this bill has received the support of the Constitutional Commission of the BiH Parliament and, in favour of the adoption of this law today, it should be said that we, within the SDP Club here in the BiH Parliament, have made a comparative analysis to see that these issues that we propose to Parliament today have been adopted through this law in other countries in Europe, and in particular in the EU. And a superficial insight into such an analysis, when you look at the state of the EU countries, the situation in the neighbourhood, you will immediately come to the conclusion that in fact this list of rights for students we propose under this law is quite narrowed down to the rights of students they have in other European countries. Other countries not only regulated these student rights but passed special laws on student and student standards, where they elaborated on the state level. However, in BiH, as we know, the SDP Club's proposal to adopt the "Student and Student Standard Act" here has not been supported. Serbia has not only defined these rights but also developed these rights in detail by a special law on student and student standards. Montenegro, Croatia, did the same. In Croatia students have state scholarships, have subsidies for the accommodation of regular students, subsidising the transport of students, subsidising the transport of students with disabilities, subsidising student nutrition, in particular the national foundation for supporting student and student standards, etc. In Hungary, every student with Hungarian citizenship has the right to a student card and a detailed right within it. Also, Norway has comprehensively regulated this problem as well as Germany, Great Britain, Poland, etc., so that we do not have the experience of all these countries in Europe. Here it should be said that this law absolutely offends no one, threatens no one, but only prescribes the rights of all students in BiH. In this law, therefore, it is meant to say at the state level that there are certain rights that students have in all other European countries, such as the elemental right to diet, accommodation, student credit, transport privileges, the right to attend lectures, seminars, the right to recognise and transfer points between accredited higher education institutions in BiH, etc. 30 So our main question today is whether we want to allow students and BiH to have rights as well as in other countries or not. I think there are a number of reasons why we should regulate these state-level rights in BiH, regardless of how they are realised, given the BiH Constitution, on entities or cantons in the Federation of BiH. However, as the BiH state has a Framework Law on Higher Education that only partially regulated this issue, we felt that the law should be complemented by these rights to ensure that students in BiH are evened out in... chances and that there are no such drastic differences in one country between the rights of students they enjoy at individual universities in our country. Thank you.
ParlaMint-BA_2010-07-14-0.u36083	Thank you. The next is distinguished representative Husein Nanić.
ParlaMint-BA_2010-07-14-0.u36084	I thank you, Chairman. Here, so we're talking about changing the "High Education Law" and this is one of the many attempts to give the rights a little bit more in this area, actually, to the ones that it applies to. In fact, this Article 2 or, in the old law of Article 36(2), it can also be called a member or law on the return of rights to students who had, who had lost students in BiH. We are one of the responsible institutions that should take care of it and... these solutions are nothing special and nothing that I really think should be spent a minute convincing in the need to adopt these rights. You know, here's one example I'm going to mention to you, that... the accommodation of students is left at the mercy of certain prime ministers, so one year after a certain lawsuit, whether the governments of Canton will subsidize or not subsidise accommodation and dormitories, etc. It's the same with the diet. This is one shot. I absolutely don't have any dilemmas, I want to support this, especially this member of the law that would mean these things go back to the students, those rights that belong to them. We all who studied before the war know that this and many other rights students had, using both international and student IDs and using all the opportunities we had with getting a index, the rights that the state provided. So I am unreservedly in favour of this Article 2 and what I consider to be a dilemma, also concerning this law, the amendment of Article 1, that is, in the old law of Article 15(1) and the number of members of the Management Board in higher education institutions. I would really like to be, I have a dilemma here, I can't say that I'm against or that I'm in favor of how much it will contribute to a better organization. Is that a real problem at universities in the functioning of the governing body? We've got the Bologna Process, we haven't made any revisions of the application of this process. We have a situation at universities and various negative stories very present in BiH, other countries' experiences, here we have heard some solutions from neighbouring countries, but I would also like to hear the stance of the resolution ministry which makes it as if it were not the Council of Ministers at all, and there is no position on this issue, and it would be good and that also the resolution ministry... Here, this is the first reading and I want to give support to this law in the first reading. I would like to really until the second reading to hear also the position of the Resoring Ministry and the Council of Ministers with arguments on why, whether or not this matter should be supported or not. In that sense, I support this law in my first reading. By the 31st reading, I would like, under this Article 1st amendment to this law, to get the Council of Ministers' position that might have removed some of the dilemmas about the adoption itself by this member of the first one who did.
ParlaMint-BA_2010-07-14-0.u36085	Thank you. Replica, the esteemed representative Vinko Zorić.
ParlaMint-BA_2010-07-14-0.u36086	I listened carefully to my colleague, Nanić, and everything would be fine if it were a law he said in his debate. Namely, he said it was an amendment to the 'High Education Law', and I received amendments to the Framework Law on Higher Education. That's completely different. And in my first attempt at introducing this law, I said that I could introduce a lot of things that I wanted to talk to the students about, but I need to ask those who cost it. And these are the ones whose jurisdiction is education. So, fellow Nanić is along the way, and I replicate it, mentioning how it was except for this lot, is it, in the system before the '90s. I didn't feel it as a student, though. It may have been felt by those who were in the Communist Party or the Alliance of Communists of Yugoslavia. I had no right except to study and take exams. And I think this way of talking about it – I also replicate to all those who think that the Founder should not have control over the Governing Board or any oversight of the Governing Board either crucial or almost crucial – because if the Management Board chooses the Rector, and I don't know who else, and these choose the Management Board, then I don't know if it's a closed circle. If the Senate determines the board of directors, then what is the work of the board of directors? Is that a conflict of interest? I think if it's said and if it's a controversial word at least, then she can change into the most. But then there can't be a third left. I'll use it because I see I have more time for the replica, I won't answer for the debate. I will support this law in my first reading, but I will also have amendments. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-BA_2010-07-14-0.u36087	Thank you. Next is Honorable Representative Momčilo Novaković.
ParlaMint-BA_2010-07-14-0.u36088	Mr. Chairman, distinguished colleagues and colleagues, you see, when Mr. Nanić spoke about Article 1 and Article 2 of this Law and said he would support Article 2 and that he had a dilemma about Article 1, unlike Mr. Nanić, I was once again closer to supporting Article 1 and I have a dilemma about Article 2. Namely, as counterpart Bećirović said, this law does not bother anyone. I'm saying it's not helping anyone, not even the students. Because, you see, there are certain rights listed here. A large number of these rights are still enjoyed by students today and normably regulated at levels where there are 32 responsibilities and money. The sentence at the end of Article 2 which says that these rights can be further elaborated in the statutes of the institution is something that practically gives a full tone to this law. And that sentence is exactly the biggest problem. And because of that sentence, no student of this law will benefit, just because of that sentence. I am absolutely in favour of giving rights, and what my colleague Zorić said, and bigger if necessary. But, gentlemen, the institution will not be able to give those rights to them. If you're convinced he can, here I am right now, and I'm going to write this law with you. But you know as well as I do, he won't be able to because he doesn't, he doesn't, she doesn't have the means to make this possible. So this can be made possible by those institutions whose competences are money for higher education. ... So, as much as you try to help students through these rights, you're not actually helping them, but in a classical way, a system of pre-election promises, these are about pre-election promises, you're misleading them. You know, I'm ready to make promises in the next three months, so whatever students ask for, I'll promise. _________(?) [[no microphone turned on]] Two and a half, right, it's been 15 days. I mean, please, we have to observe things, so if it's about changing the law, then we have to observe the law completely. What this law belonged to is not only by law but also by the Constitution of this land and by other regulations. That's why this law is a problem for me. Not because of the granting of rights, but because of the formal giving of rights which cannot essentially be realised in accordance with these amendments or with the provisions of the Framework Law on Higher Education. And it would be good if colleagues might withdraw this law and prepare another who also treats this problem, but in a way that it complies with the other provisions of the Framework Law and, of course, with the Constitution of this country. Thank you.
ParlaMint-BA_2010-07-14-0.u36090	Thank you. Replica, the esteemed representative Husein Nanić.
ParlaMint-BA_2010-07-14-0.u36091	I thank you, Chairman. Since my colleague Zorić mentioned my name in the sense that he had nothing in that communist system anyway. For the sake of honesty to the system that was behind us and those things that were good, I studied in Zagreb and really had subsidized accommodation in the home, subsidized nutrition, subsidized urban transport, international card, I could travel the world. And indeed, a lot of subsidies were given by that state. For the sake of honesty and for the good things that are, that's why I had to replicate these things that are... 33
ParlaMint-BA_2010-07-14-0.u36092	The next replica is the esteemed representative Denis Bećirović.
ParlaMint-BA_2010-07-14-0.u36093	I'll make three things right from my colleague Novaković very soon. First, the regulation of these things is not formal, because if it were formal then it would mean that the BiH Constitution, which we are working on, is also formal. The Constitution of the State says in preamble that we will fight for equality, and here is the equality of all students. In the same BiH Constitution in Article II. It's about the right to education. In the same Constitution, BiH is said in Article X that no law can eliminate, and I stress this, nor reduce the rights that exist under this BiH Constitution. So, let's be clear about this stuff. The second thing, when counterpart Novaković said that this problem was already regulated normally, since we at the SDP Club here on the benches prepared all these laws at lower levels that regulated this problem and when we look at it, you will see that it is not regulated in this way. In fact, here's the thing: I've just got the Law on Student Standard in the RS, which in only three items has regulated this issue, not how it's proposed today comprehensively. And thirdly, this is no pre-election promise from the SDP Club. It would be the first time we've proposed this today. However, it is that the SDP Club has been leading for several years, so to speak, the parliamentary battle here in Parliament, we have first proposed 'The Law on Changes and Higher Educations', and then we have proposed 'The Law on Student and Student Standard', and it could be said that this is the third time in the last two or three years that we are dating with this proposal. If we were going out for the first time now, it could be like a grade, colleague Novaković. And the third thing is that we need to answer the question: If the neighbours, both Serbia, Croatia and Montenegro, have regulated this issue with their laws and listed the scope of students' rights in their countries, what is the problem with putting all of this aside and rewriting all the rights that exist in Serbia and Croatia and that these rights have students in BiH? Now, that's the key question. Who wants it here in the BiH Parliament to have a student in Banja Luka, Sarajevo, Tuzli etc. has a smaller scope of rights than does a student have under the laws of Serbia, Croatia or Montenegro?
ParlaMint-BA_2010-07-14-0.u36094	Thank you. The next replica is the esteemed representative Vinko Zorić.
ParlaMint-BA_2010-07-14-0.u36095	Okay, I'll crack another replica. As a serious and responsible man, I believe what my colleague Nanić said was true, but I was not lucky enough to study in Zagreb. I hear from the SDP Club that today everything is fine in Zagreb. It seems it's up to Zagreb, it's not too much to the law, because the same law we had before '90. Everywhere. I say where I studied that I had no right but to study and take exams. 34
ParlaMint-BA_2010-07-14-0.u36096	The next replica is Honorable representative Momčilo Novaković.
ParlaMint-BA_2010-07-14-0.u36097	Well, you see, colleague Bećirović, I could now ask you questions the way you asked upside down, so you asked questions, so now I can ask you. So if you asked me who cares that students in BiH have less rights than students in Serbia, Croatia, etc., then I could ask you what you guarantee that after the adoption of this law, students in BiH will have the same rights as students in Serbia and Croatia. What we were, look out for, that's what I was discussing, but you weren't discussing what I was discussing, you were discussing what you were planning to say, so you said the same thing in the replica. Of course, I won't talk about the Constitution because you've just quoted the provisions of the Constitution to confirm what I've been saying, so there's no need for me to replicate these provisions of the Constitution. And please, Mr. Bećirović, no student, if they had adopted this law, would have more rights than he would have, would have had, would have no, would not have, would have more rights than he is exercising today. Why? Because the authorities who have the money - they are not here in this law of yours. Put them here somehow, and there's no problem. I have kids too, students. Let these rights be enjoyed, let not be enjoyed. They don't enjoy it because they either don't need it, or they didn't look for it, or they wouldn't do it for some reason, etc. So, I'm just as interested as you and all of us sitting here that all students have a chance. But we can't give them this law. Nothing else. Do it, I suggested, make a different one that we will enable them to do, and you have my vote.
ParlaMint-BA_2010-07-14-0.u36098	Thank you. The next replica is Commissioner Nermina Zaimović-Uzunović-Uzunovic.
ParlaMint-BA_2010-07-14-0.u36099	Namely, the intensity of these amendments, i.e. the law, was that it was, above all, a framework law, to repeat another framework law, to rightly equalise all students in the entire BiH state. That was basic. Secondly, if you look at whether it is possible for students – it is possible that students have benefit if this framework law is implemented. If lower-level laws, so entity and cantonal, respect these students' rights, then we'll come to them that they can plan funds for this in cantonal budgets, so that students don't abuse themselves like they do today. It's not planned for budgets, it's not in the law, so I'm not planning on budgeting. When we're not planning on budgeting, then I can plan when I need it. Well then cantonal ministries can say -- eh, we're not going to give benefits to students on transportation, but if we need those students and their votes, eh, then we're going to allocate some funds from the reserve and then we're going to give. Now, just to prevent that from happening at that executive level of government, we suggest that in rights equalize all students, that these rights be reviewed into laws at the entity and cantonal level, so burum, let each of them have 35 pairs of respect for those rights of students. Until it's written, it doesn't exist, and then it can be manipulated as to who it suits. That is the basic intensity of these proposals.
ParlaMint-BA_2010-07-14-0.u36100	Thank you. The next replica is distinguished representative Drago Kalabić.
ParlaMint-BA_2010-07-14-0.u36101	Thank you, Mr. Chairman. Although I have given up the discussion, our position is known about this law. However, listening to some arguments, I had to answer the line because, if I understood the matter correctly, the proposal of this law is somewhat bordering itself with the magic skills or it's a mistake here. I listen to my colleagues' arguments that additional funding will be planned in the budgets and, under paragraph 4, says: "For the implementation of this law, there is no need to provide additional financial resources in the budget for BiH institutions and other institutions." Now this is one of the most complete pre-election promises. You'll get all the rights and you don't need any money and no one's gonna pay anything, all that's gonna go on and I'm gonna come to you. How is it possible to secure rights without them being paid? Is that what someone has now, so they don't, they don't, they have funds, they don't have money so they don't, I mean, they don't want to give students? How is it possible that such a spectrum of student rights isn't needed from some budget from somewhere? I didn't understand any institutions in BiH that said they didn't. I've been listening to them all in reasons that there's not enough resources. And now we're told that this will be prevented, pre-election, these, those, as planned in the budgets, and the proposal itself says that they don't need any money, that everything from the existing will be... If it's from the existing ones, then what's going to change this law? If they don't need extra funds, then there's probably enough money? I guess, if nothing else, it was correct to say that for such a set of proposed quasi rights, the colleagues said what they think about this, and I'm going to say, I'd go into the discussion and it's not my intention, because I think this is a clear set of intentions and motive, but at least it was correct to say that to implement this law, we need to have significant, huge financial resources, either from this institution budget, or where it's meant to finance that people are said to be prepared for it, if this law was passed, to prepare for that money. There is no right without it having to be singled out, from this budget or that budget, financial resources. If they don't need funding, it's a hoax. Then it's a delusion to those to whom the message is sent that they have rights, because there's no free right.
ParlaMint-BA_2010-07-14-0.u36102	Thank you. The next is Mr. President-in-Office's first deputy. Beriz Belkić.
ParlaMint-BA_2010-07-14-0.u36103	Dear colleagues and colleagues, therefore, Mr Bećirović expressed some kind of optimism about the outcome of the first reading of this law. I would be very happy to see it that way and as far as the Party for BiH MPs' Club is concerned, we will support this law. 36 It seems to me that we are currently in a situation, not to build up the law, but to try to preserve the result, therefore, of our existing Framework Law on Higher Education in BiH, which gives the possibility to entities that, in the context of this and unsettled arrangement, it has been questioned. Therefore, the Law on Higher Education adopted by the National Assembly of the Republic of Slovenia has seriously demoted and, I say, took over certain powers given to the Agency, the Conference, the Ministry. So, the Party for BiH at the moment, of course, also supporting what SDP Club proposes will deal with and seek ways to protect the Framework Law from devasting by the entity's Law on Higher Education adopted by the National Assembly of the RS.
ParlaMint-BA_2010-07-14-0.u36104	Replica, second Vice-President Dr. Milorad Živković.
ParlaMint-BA_2010-07-14-0.u36105	Thank you. We often commit ourselves to some legal projects by calling for entity assemblies and some other institutions that have their own way of discussing legal projects. That way has been used so far. Everything that is not in accordance with the Constitution has a Constitutional Court and the RS where the issue of constitutionality of any legal act adopted in the National Assembly can be raised. So don't worry about what's going on down there. Let's see what's going on here. And I think the way the legal projects are proposed here is obviously wrong. People who are trying to get jurisdiction, which we are talking about now, from the BiH Constitution, because BiH's jurisdiction should be a little better read by the Constitution and, for example, where jurisdiction is, which is a canton, show how it can work. If they convince us that on this cantonal, where the jurisdiction of this issue is, it works ideally, let them come here with this example and let them tell us that this should work on the entire territory of BiH and we will discuss it. Therefore, do not try to transfer jurisdiction to a state level that is not the jurisdiction of the state, and try to convince us at your level to do so properly. Thank you.
ParlaMint-BA_2010-07-14-0.u36106	Thank you. The next is the distinguished representative Azra Alajbegović.
ParlaMint-BA_2010-07-14-0.u36107	Dear Chairman, colleagues and colleagues, ladies and gentlemen, I will state my personal position, since Mr Belkić has already expressed the position of the Party for BiH Club, and I would not even present it in the presence of the club president. So, I personally support this Proposal for a Law amending the Framework Law on Higher Education, and I believe that any attempt to improve higher education, regardless of whether it is aimed at improving the conditions of study, the rights of students or the right to acquire academic titles, the binding of universities, the quality of the work of an inter-rectoral conference, is something that should be supported and that certainly no one would at any time dispute. What I am actually concerned about is the fact that extending the rights and changes of former member 36 to a new member has somehow been questioned, given the specific constitutional arrangement of higher education in BiH, and this would actually be the best example to see how much at some 37 moments, and I think this would be the moment, it would be a significant state education ministry that would address the high education of BiH citizens, or youth of BiH. Here, I'm going to do a little dipression about the imperative of the existence of the State Ministry of Higher Education and Education at all, so let me say that in BiH, we actually have an entirely unregulated segment, and I think it's something that this Parliamentary Assembly has to start thinking about and that it's potentially working, if not in this term, in the next one, which is education of talented children and education of talented students. I think that we, for talented children and talented students, have a completely unsettled scholarship, i.e. an unsettled reward of these children, and these 1,365,000 of our citizens in the diaspora and very respectable results that our children achieve, and now our young experts, are actually saying that BiH and youth BiH is one of the potentials of which this Parliamentary Assembly, I fear, in previous mandates, but I hope that in the future, it will account for, so that through this current discussion, I would in some way draw attention to this discussion and call on representatives of the Parliamentary Assembly of BiH and the Council of Ministers to enter into the law on the regulation of rights and the possibility of all possible aspects of education of talented children, which will create a very high quality youth that will be able to be the force, the driver of BiH and BiH citizens to the EU. What I would still like to say, which is that in these rights we have earlier rights and we have some new rights that are defined and that I very much support, but I am truly expressing my personal concern that they will provide funds for these rights, such as the rights to student scholarships and student loans. However, I would like to focus my interest on focusing on this right to attend all lectures, seminars and other forms of teaching organised within their subjects, in accordance with their position and depending on the possibilities and other forms of organised teaching. This right of students is very good. However, here is the question of the quality of what is given to students through quality lectures, quality seminars and quality forms of organized teaching. First of all, I'm thinking about health-orientation colleges, like medical school, like veterinary school, pharmaceutical colleges, medical colleges. If one student, please, if 40 students come to an assistant in practical teaching, this right is impossible to allow such a student. I believe that through this discussion and through this attempt by the SDP Club to extend the rights, or to specify them, or improve them, or to draw attention, I believe that this is an appeal and higher education institutions and the Higher Education Agency to actually work on raising quality, above all, practical teaching at higher education institutions where the practical teaching is an integral part of the educational process. I'm afraid that practical teaching does not have adequate quality and I believe that this lack of quality of access to practical follow-up is something that is a very serious problem for students. Of course, I don't belong to those who give only the right. I believe that every right follows the obligation and I think that the obligations of students must be equal rights and only in situations of quality obligation of quality law can we go with high education forward. That would be about, in a way, that discussion of mine. I'd say more, of course, and I'll elaborate a little bit on the possibilities of talented students in the period of the existence of our former state of Yugoslavia. I believe that then talented students had more opportunities to advance and more material support than at this point, even in the richest and most developed canton, I am talking about the Federation, which is the Sarajevo Canton. For the illustration, there were prize scholarships and certain awards given to the best 38 students, certain criteria were known, the ratio of the financial reward to students for the previous school year, which, for example, ended the previous school year with an average of over 9 and passed all the exams. In the former period at Sarajevo University, ratio 4:1, as currently positioned in the Sarajevo Canton. I believe that talented children should be taken into account and I believe that the Council of Ministers, i.e. the Ministry of Civil Affairs, or the Department of Education, should approach the creation of a law on talented children at all levels, means in primary school, in high school and in colleges, so that in some way we can have quality experts who will lead us forward. Thank you.
ParlaMint-BA_2010-07-14-0.u36108	Thank you. The next is the esteemed representative of Zlatko Lagumdžija.
ParlaMint-BA_2010-07-14-0.u36109	I thank you, Mr. Chairman. I would just like a few brief comments about what we've heard so far and just once again to underline that this is one of the few laws the SDP has been insisting on for years. There are some other laws that have nothing to do with higher education that we have even repeated several times. So I want very clearly to say that none of our intentions have been anything but what treats the problems of this law. So nothing that has to do with what you've instructed here as some kind of campaign pre-election either. If that had been our goal, then this law would have been much more intense. But we've only tried two things here, I repeat once again, two capital things to point out. The first question is the autonomy of the university which we have and when it comes to framework law was problematic. And we're here, because it's about first reading, it's not about whether or not it's one-third at most, it can be half of it, but the moment the founder has the right to have more than half the people on the board of directors, that's when the autonomy of the university ends. So our only instinct was to reopen now in a quieter atmosphere, because then when the Framework Law was passed, it was roughly said -- don't touch anything just to let it go. But here, now we see that we're fighting for that and what's past to be preserved. But the question of university autonomy through the principle that the board can't sit more than half, the principle, whether it's a third at most, whether it's a third or a half at most, it doesn't matter, but it's important that it can't be more than half, because then it's not autonomy. And then we have a problem which, I say, is even logical in terms of autonomy. So that's why we're ready to talk about it, but we just want to tell you what we wanted with this one-third. We can discuss in the amendment phase how it shouldn't be a third, to be what they say by half or something like that. But that's the principle we want to change, and it has nothing to do with entities, or cantons, or anything. So it doesn't matter, absolutely nothing to do with one fening. This has to do with, you have today higher education institutions that get a maximum of 20% of the funds they spend, you have higher education institutions that don't get from the founders more than 20%, and the founder has a full right and sets up both deans and boards and everything. That's the case now. In the transitional period it will be different, but again it will be possible if the founder has the practical right to have more than 39 half of the people on the board of directors, be careful not to provide 100% funding, so it does not provide 100% funding. And that's something we think there's nothing... and that's why I'm asking you to play first reading so we can at least work something out. As far as this second question is concerned about students' rights, it is perfectly clear to us that when students are said to have the right to credit, to have the right to scholarship, we, we, we are perfectly clear that not every student will choose whether credits or scholarships. But this framework law obliges those who certify higher education institutions and those who make and who run higher education institutions not to build a higher education institution to rent an O.R. in a culture home, hire three teachers who come to you to share diplomas and stamps. We know it's part of the process of accreditation and verification, etc., but it's not normal for anyone to be allowed at all under the framework law of anyone in the country to have a higher education facility. Watch out, here and in private higher education institutions in the West and in public institutions there are funds that they have for loans and scholarships and they are under the appropriate criteria, so you can't build a university just by renting an O.R., hiring a secretary and hiring teachers. So, we just think that these rights require students, so every higher education institution has to make it possible, which doesn't mean that every student will have a diet, but let the colleges worry about having some, I say, cultural-sports-designed content. It's part of higher education. How large they will be, how large they will be, that is another question. So we don't think that with this, and the only thing that's here, to be honest to the end, the only thing that's problematic here can be... this privilege, it can be, and everything else, everything else isn't problematic. So, for everything else, the intensity of this is, therefore, if it's real high, especially for private institutions, especially for private higher education institutions that are allowed by this law to have only, even, for the library, it's said that students can use it if he has a library, so he doesn't have to have a library, because under the existing law he doesn't have to give the student a library. So why? Because it says according to the existing one, it says, if it's in the facility. Behold, it is not found in an institution, but it is nothing to anyone. So, the existing law has practically given the student the right to lecture, now he should not have it either, that he does not guarantee it, that he does not have to come to lectures, but only to pay. We could have said, "Is he, like, entitled to pay and wait for his diploma in the mail?" True, it can be seen now whether it's in line with the Law on Post Office, whether it's indicative or not, I don't know which one. SADIK NOW
ParlaMint-BA_2010-07-14-0.u36110	/no microphone turned on/
ParlaMint-BA_2010-07-14-0.u36111	May I have your attention, please?
ParlaMint-BA_2010-07-14-0.u36112	I mean, a man graduated from college without school friends, so he knows how it works – you pay off and you win, and it's in the war.
ParlaMint-BA_2010-07-14-0.u36113	May I have your attention, please? 40 SADIK NOW
ParlaMint-BA_2010-07-14-0.u36114	/no microphone turned on/
ParlaMint-BA_2010-07-14-0.u36115	Thank you very much. Now, I'm calling, I'm just appealing to you to let us have this law in our first reading, so if it's a stop-pani, if you have a problem, let these elections pass, let us adopt this properly in October. Here, let it pass in the first reading and let the amendment try to do something, really, so we can at least work something out.
ParlaMint-BA_2010-07-14-0.u36116	Thank you. Replica, the distinguished representative of Sadik Bahtić.
ParlaMint-BA_2010-07-14-0.u36117	I have to replicate a failed unfathomable academic. Wait a minute, I've got ten people who've never seen you, and you've got grades. What you're proposing, you're just doing, you're fictitiously enrolling. You are a classic example of demagogy in this House. Of course we'll support this law. It's a demagogue story that doesn't even know the address of the college where he gets the money from. At six, seven colleges, he's writing grades fictitiously and giving us a lecture. I'm done honorably, honestly, and I'm going to be a doctor, but I'm not gonna be like him. It is known how he, what he did, to see his scientific works, from his profession man has no idea, everyone says so here in Sarajevo, and he tells us something, something here about education, culture and so on. That's it, thank you.
ParlaMint-BA_2010-07-14-0.u36118	Thank you. The next is distinguished representative Branko Dokić.
ParlaMint-BA_2010-07-14-0.u36119	Thank you, Mr. Chairman. Well, I really don't believe this honest message or a request from my colleague Lagumdžija when he says let the law pass in the first reading, so let's see that the amendments are working, because here's the same party's been offering this proposal once, got a series of remarks, I think very reasoned and, as far as I can see, nothing has been corrected. So after that, I'm really asking if it's worth going to some kind of amendment phase. ... I'm sorry, I'm coming to the conclusion that this is more of a pre-election game and campaign going through this. When I say this, I'm going to repeat what I've said before, I didn't mean to really answer, but here, I still have to because I see that the document that we had a few months or half a year ago is practically back in front of us. Look, we fight, those who work at the university fight that students are required to attend lectures etc., etc., and here it is said to be student law. I mean, here and here, with all due respect and really respect, it wasn't a flossule of Professor 41 from this party that there are here to offer us a proposal like this, a sentence like this, and I have to admit, as a professor, that I don't understand. Furthermore, look at these rights defined like this, and here are the loans, and also at the scholarship, and at the diet, and at the accommodation, I can open a series of court proceedings, because this means that every student has the right to do so. Who in this country is going to give all the students the right to do this? It's nice and everyone who works at the university, I mean, it'd be funny if they just watched what they were supposed to do against this. But let us be realistic – who can provide this? If there was any other story here, I know it's unpopular to say it right now, here I'm going to open up the question: The capacity to accommodate students should provide that accommodation equally to students studying at the state university and private university? These are the stories we should talk about. See how it's done elsewhere in the world, and you see how it is with us, etc., etc., that we don't talk about this transport. So what I came forward for was one kind of irritation, because all of this story we talked about half a year ago, and it's repeating itself the same way. Even though the formulations had to be different, to drive away, here's our conjecture and doubts that we've talked about before, which is why this law can't go the way it's proposed. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-BA_2010-07-14-0.u36120	Thank you. Replica, the esteemed representative Denis Bećirović.
ParlaMint-BA_2010-07-14-0.u36121	kolega Dokić, I would remind you that you voted for this law, the Framework Law on Higher Education in BiH. When you voted for that law, you also voted for a Article 36 which currently states that students have rights, so orderly, under number one, to attend all lectures. Here, I ask you if there is one law of all over 40 European states in which it is said that it is right to attend lectures. And you voted for such a law. Or attitude (2), as a second right: to use libraries. It's listed here, you voted for such a law. I ask again if there is one country that has regulated it as the rights of students, and that a number of other rights that exist in all other countries are not incorporated into the law. Secondly, I would like to remind you that in the last three years, through several laws, we have offered far more comprehensive regulation proposals between us and this matter. But it didn't go away. In the end, we offer, we turn to two questions: the autonomy of the university and the regulation of these rights for students as in other countries. We have come to the SDP Club of Presumptions if we have not already found any consensus on all these issues that we have proposed through a series of laws, we have come from the assumption that at least we will find a consensus here in Parliament that we are all together saying that the right of students in this country is: the right to eat, the right to accommodation. So, we have tried in some way to test how far this Parliament can go and at least agree that students in this country have the right to food and accommodation. Our problem, therefore the SDP Club's problem is the situation in this area and we are trying to change it as much as we can here in Parliament in a legal way. The situation is such that only five student centres in the RS are located around 2,210 students, in the Federation of 42 totals close to 70,000 students are located only 3,418 students or less than 5%. So these percentages are well below the European average and we want to change these things. Our comprehensive proposals have not passed, but we call on colleagues at least today to agree on minimums, to define the right to eat, the right to accommodation, the right to health care, etc. After all, there's nothing to argue about. If you look at the law of the RS, there is one part of these rights that is regulated. And if I wasn't talking about how we're going to finance these things right now, it would be enough to make small savings on the purchase of planes in this country, cars, etc. so there could be a lot of resources for these things.
ParlaMint-BA_2010-07-14-0.u36122	Dear Representative Branko Dokić, replica.
ParlaMint-BA_2010-07-14-0.u36123	Here, let's assume that fellow Bećirović is absolutely right when he says and when he criticises us for accepting the law in which he says, as you said, that it is the right of students to attend lectures, let's take it as a mistake and I think it's a bad formulation. But you're repeating it and you're repeating it another time. I think it's any other, but you're still in your formulation saying it's the right of students to attend classes. And last time we discussed it. And about this, about standard, I won't talk about it because it turns out by your story that I'm against it. It's not me against it, it's how it's formulated it would mean that every student has a right to it. And whoever doesn't get that right to have a place, he can sue. You understand me, I mean, that's our disagreement and our different view. So here are the formulas so that they don't offer a guarantee to the promoter that it really stands honestly behind what it proposes in terms of possibilities, I don't say good wishes and intentions.
ParlaMint-BA_2010-07-14-0.u36124	Thank you. Dear Representative Nermina Zaimović-Uzunović-Uzunović, a replica.
ParlaMint-BA_2010-07-14-0.u36125	I'm using my right once more on the line. So when we proposed this, when you adopted the Framework Law on Higher Education, then I wasn't here, I'm brand-new in this House and my intentions are now, and you can't impute me to be burdened... Secondly, I'm also here as a university peofesor who really knows this situation well. And it seems to me that together we have reached consensus on the minimum, the minimum amendments that we have made, that is, the proposal. So we've been trying to repeat what you've already adopted and just add something else to those student rights. Why is it so done? Because we already have a phenomenon at cantonal levels, what I once said, that some real students are achieving, but not equal rights, equal rights for all students in BiH. Will they benefit from them? Probably most students will not use the right to stay in a dormitory if they live in that city, and it is natural and normal and will not refer the suit to anyone because they are not at home, because they are at home. So, a part of the law is already being implemented today through cantonal laws, but it's scythic, disorganized, in the way someone interprets it, not as it's predicted and... how it's done for all the students in BiH. 43 So the goal was to achieve student rights in a unique way. The fact that some of the items that you have already adopted in this House have been repeated, and most of you here probably who voted for it, do not now object that we have just taken the opportunity to add to what we believe to be both human and human, and that this should be used by all the students in this country who need that right.
ParlaMint-BA_2010-07-14-0.u36126	Thank you. The next replica is Commissioner Azra Hadžiahmetović.
ParlaMint-BA_2010-07-14-0.u36127	Thank you, Chairman. Here, I have abstained from the discussion so far, believing that in this House, the content of this law cannot be disputed. I just thought that eventually these amendments to the law would encourage some of us to further perfect the Framework Law on Higher Education. And only when I was thinking about who might possibly be against it was I thought at least that any university professor could be against guaranteeing rights. And I am convinced that when his colleague Dokić supported the Law on Higher Education really supported it as Professor Branko Dokić, and that today's discussion, that is, the obviousness of this bill is perhaps more perhaps the position of the club to which it belongs, I do not believe even the party to whom it belongs, may look more like a club, right. You see, a man would stop under normal circumstances if the law guaranteed a student the right to attend classes. However, let me remind you, our universities are funded, most of these mass colleges, mass studies, with a relatively small percentage from the canton budget, or entities, etc. Most universities are somehow directed to achieve a good part of the activity through their own incomes, i.e. through the achievement of their own incomes, a good part of the university enrolls as much as possible, using the benefits of self-financing of students, and that even at the beginning of thinking, it is burdened by this difficult financial situation, and it does not consider whether a student can be provided with a chair, not a lecture. Mr. Dokić, I know this is happening at the oldest and best university in BiH. And it should not be surprising that even for such best universities it is necessary to introduce a provision that the student has the right to lecture, to attend the lecture. And secondly, I will remind you that we have a crowd, in this chaos of disorder still in institutional terms, a multitude of these newly-compromised universities and universities etc. who meet the forms of registration and in which a student who comes to college simply doesn't get any answer why there's no lecture. I do not know that this parliament has made a decision that these diplomas are invalid, I do not know that this Parliament or any other Parliament has made a decision that these colleges are invalid, that their programmes are invalid, etc. We need to guarantee the student rights so he can think about whether he's going to go to college or university where he's going to have classes or some college where he's not guaranteed it. And you must admit that our understanding, within BiH, of the Bologna Process and reforms that are higher education, which we have entered with higher education, among other things, and in the heads of many who work at higher education institutions do not mean guaranteeing the rights of students to attend lectures. We don't even have the mobility of students within one 44 universities, not to speak between the university in BiH, without talking about the mobility of students and university teachers, which is an integral part of...
ParlaMint-BA_2010-07-14-0.u36128	Time! AZRA
ParlaMint-BA_2010-07-14-0.u36129	: That is why I am not surprised and I think this right should stand, that is, this law should be supported, and I deeply hope that it will only be an incentive for future improvement of the Framework Law on Higher Education. Thank you.
ParlaMint-BA_2010-07-14-0.u36130	Thank you. The next line has a respected representative, Ekrem Ajanović.
ParlaMint-BA_2010-07-14-0.u36131	Mr. President, colleagues and colleagues, a good part of the discussion I wanted to present has already been presented by Azra. And I volunteered for a replica of a respected SDP MP who said he shouldn't be within the law to attend the lecture. And this must be underlined to be the right to attend the lecture, because public institutions, public colleges enroll 500 children per year, where they don't even have a chair to put in. And the student's greatest right should be the right to give him real knowledge, and that's not there, there's no university that does that. It's the most important thing, so the thing we have to do, Azra said something about it. And when they talk about certain Western countries and food rights and this, it's a story for little children, gentlemen dear. Take Oksford: £25,000 to enroll to be good, to be good, to have a recommendation from certain institutions that have finished so far, and 25,000 is just to enroll in college. And for food, that nobody asks you where you're going to eat, or where you're going to... provide... So we're becoming, going back to the demagogue issues that were during socialism. Someone says socialism has won, you may have won Nanić, but I could never get it because I'm a refugee child. I could never get home, I couldn't get to eat in some mess hall. I had to pay for everything, six of us lived in one room so we could study. Therefore, since the Party for BiH, and I am its member, has fully supported this law, and I propose that we support it, to make it right in another reading, but we need to know that we are not a country; what one foreign representative once said when I objected to health care and said: doctors are quality in BiH, and he said one truth -- they are quality doctors, but you have a budget, he says, like Ruanda. The bottom line is, we don't have the economy, we don't have the economy, we don't have the work, and we're going to do certain tasks. So, in my first reading, I support this law, but we have to think carefully about what we can do and what we can do with the law. So in the second reading, we need to see well what can be done and be objective that when it is introduced into the law, it has to be done. 45
ParlaMint-BA_2010-07-14-0.u36132	Thank you. And the next replica is the esteemed representative Branko Dokić.
ParlaMint-BA_2010-07-14-0.u36133	Thank you, Chairman. I think it's very incorrect when someone is discussing and talking to someone and that someone they're talking to is pressing the button to want a replica, and the one who caused that replica to leave the room. In this case, this applies to my colleague Azra, I think it's very, very unprincipled and incorrect. She's always ready to teach lessons, and she doesn't seem ready to take lessons. She obviously doesn't know what club I'm in, not to say if she knows or whether I'm at the club, and not to mention that she really doesn't know what I generally think about high school, because I've never discussed it with her, not even my party. She is more present in higher education and I am telling you that higher education throughout BiH is in a catastrophic state. I just don't see that this is going to change that catastrophic state. And one more thing, I really don't understand that college colleagues don't understand the terminology of each other, and here we keep going back to the student's right to attend the lecture. Hello, it's an obligation! My men, do you distinguish rights and obligations? That would be the same if the MPs were to tell us - MPs have the right to discuss. Not that they're right, it's our responsibility, do you understand me now, please?? A huge difference between writing that someone has a right, and that means he can come to the lecture and not have to come to the lecture, and the intensity, here is the mention of Bologna from those who escaped, intensity and Bologna is that the student is obliged to attend the lecture. And the one who can't provide the students with as many seats to attend the lecture as he's written, so he needs to be shut down. Now, that's what it's supposed to say here. So you understand me, and I don't really want to discuss it anymore. I did, though, and I shot twice.
ParlaMint-BA_2010-07-14-0.u36134	Thank you. The next replica is Honourable representative Selim Bešlagić.
ParlaMint-BA_2010-07-14-0.u36135	Here, I'll replicate very briefly. Mr. Ajanović, we didn't throw out this right, here's what Dokić said right now, we even believe that where he stands the right to stand and the obligation and we believe that if someone signed up to pass, then it's also an obligation to attend to learn something. And I'll be done. I'll be very brief. This debate reminds me of a joke that I heard the other day: I graduated from a college man and sat in society, and everyone congratulated him, and he said, "That my high school was over, and college was easy for me. I say to you, this Branko, what you said, I asked the Minister, I asked the Minister, "Who is in charge of implementing the Framework Law?" What kind of answer did I get? I got an answer that, here we go... recording. And that's the question I asked and that I asked to see who's in charge of 46 law enforcement. That's why I think that here, by respecting your position, it can be amended to act on this part, but here, I've replicated this, so we weren't to abolish that right, the right must be, but here, let it stand, we have nothing against it.
ParlaMint-BA_2010-07-14-0.u36136	Thank you. Next replica, the esteemed second Vice-President Dr. Milorad Živković.
ParlaMint-BA_2010-07-14-0.u36137	Here, I don't want to joke this time, but I want to say that those colleagues who mentioned that in the Law on Higher Education of the Republic of Slovenia have listed the rights, I can only say that this proposal that you have brought here will be used to consider putting those rights into that law and to think about it. And maybe those who hold power in cantons also take that paper and try to put it into high education laws in cantons. And for once, anywhere, in any canton, show how it can work. Because half of BiH, the entire RS has a uniquely solved system, we have half to solve. At least do it in one canton and show how it works, and then let's talk about a single system in the entire BiH territory. I'm an advocate of here being a canton like Tuzla canton showing that higher education is the best done in that canton. And that all children from all over BiH want and have the will to go there to study because they have the best privileges, both in transport and in accommodation, and in anything, and to compete with each other in BiH. That's how we can move on, not the way you suggest.
ParlaMint-BA_2010-07-14-0.u36138	Thank you. Another replica, the esteemed representative Azra Alajbegović.
ParlaMint-BA_2010-07-14-0.u36139	Well, I'd just like to say that I think we'd best go forward if we had the State Department of Education. And I appreciate the effect Professor Dokić had on that minor replica, but in view of the fact that the replica was at least seven to eight times the term she was used, I tell this home that she is a professor, Dr Azra Hadžiahmetović.
ParlaMint-BA_2010-07-14-0.u36140	Thank you. The next replica is the esteemed representative Husein Nanić. 47
ParlaMint-BA_2010-07-14-0.u36141	I thank you, Chairman. Replica is a colleague of Živković who, for the second time in his replicas, invites us to settle the matter in cantons or to set an example. In contrast, I am starting with the view that I am an MP in the BiH Parliamentary Assembly, not an MP of a canton or an entity, but that it is our obligation to try to resolve these matters at BiH level. And I see my role in the Parliamentary Assembly that way, not to represent any canton or any entity.
ParlaMint-BA_2010-07-14-0.u36142	Dear Representative Bećirović has already used two replicas. The next debate is a respected representative. DENIS
ParlaMint-BA_2010-07-14-0.u36143	/no microphone turned on/
ParlaMint-BA_2010-07-14-0.u36144	Here you go, business intervention.
ParlaMint-BA_2010-07-14-0.u36145	I just want to tell my colleague Živković
ParlaMint-BA_2010-07-14-0.u36146	What article of the Rules of Procedure are you referring to? DENIS
ParlaMint-BA_2010-07-14-0.u36147	: that we as MPs are bound by the Rules of Procedure to read the laws, is that so. So, when it comes to the rights of students, those rights were introduced by adopting, or those who voted for the law, the Framework Law on Higher Education and when he said he liked some ideas of the SDP Club, but that it would be incorporated into the law in the RS, and I just want to remind him that he voted in favour of Article 36 of that law, which starts with the following: 'Students have the following rights', so listed. He has already voted for the issue of student rights to be regulated at the state level and this is just an addition to those rights. We should still know that when we're discussing this.
ParlaMint-BA_2010-07-14-0.u36148	We know a lot, including abuse of the Rules of Procedure, I mean, but, well, here, don't be angry in the future when I won't let you. The next replica is the esteemed representative Slavko Jovičić.
ParlaMint-BA_2010-07-14-0.u36149	Thank you, Mr. Chairman. Well, I'm replicating everyone who knows we have this session and maybe two more. And we cannot order the next assembly of Parliament to run for the hardest or most complicated issues on which it was impossible to reach an agreement for 10, 12, 15 years in the past period and run for 48 in the first year. Fully aware that this failed in the second year of our term of office, the third, fourth, and now they have come to believe that for this session, possibly another, they are running for it so that, as the people would say, they speed up at what speed and at what light speed to pass it. Let's go as people at least alone here collegiately that the way we've done so far, and I'm really proud that there were no problems, although they made us grab something here like our necks, I don't know, intervene with SIPA, I don't know who we should have, to leave these things that I can't get behind right now. No university, no student will fail unless we adopt this. I see, thank Bog, now the competitions scheduled, there's enough students, they'll manage to eat, they'll manage. And if they'd waited for us, they'd have given up in high school if they didn't go any further, because they know there's no more chance, because there's no way they'd get to college, fortunately. If we had another one, I say, two sessions, let's go as friends, as friends, as friends, as friends, I don't know what I'm going to call you, so we don't complicate our situation here, and we're pushing something that couldn't have been supported in four years, and we're leaving these problems, but what we owe us to that path to European integration, to somehow do it if possible. And if someone's finished in three days of college, is it on private someone who doesn't have the conditions to be a veterinary station, there's no place at all there; I've been to some universities in private, I've seen what it is, but this is the only country where anything is possible. Why in other European countries, which are far behind us and we like to see them, there are no private universities like this, there is nothing? But if I were to say that private colleges should be abolished, I think all those who invented them and took huge money from this poor woman to strangle me. But it's interesting that the biggest rush on private colleges. So, the people have money, students, if they do. Again, what we're proposing, in the end, is the student going to have to come to college. No, he'll call from home, I'll sign up and prepare my degree, I'll be there in three days to pick her up. Well, that's what it's gonna look like, is that it? Guys, let's stop what wasn't possible in four years to do, we just remembered. Let's go as comrades to work and help if there's anything possible, to say what's going to happen, what's going to happen to the fall crop, and we're going in with these things in the election campaign, to feed the people, not whether the student has to eat. Will anyone have bread to eat? Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-BA_2010-07-14-0.u36150	Thank you. Dear Representative Azra Hadžiahmetović, replica.
ParlaMint-BA_2010-07-14-0.u36151	Well, I just wanted some colleagues who thought they needed to replicate me, not my arguments, to let me know that I came to the O.R. I'm just saying it's not replicating; I'm not an institution of replication or understanding that we're replicating each other, but by arguments and counterarguments and by the strength of the arguments that someone is making. Thank you.
ParlaMint-BA_2010-07-14-0.u36152	The next debate is the esteemed representative Vinko Zorić. 49
ParlaMint-BA_2010-07-14-0.u36153	Here I am, since I don't know if this amendment to the Framework Law will pass in the first reading, if it passes, I have a proposal for one conclusion. If it doesn't pass, I'll pull out in time. I'll be right back, if it doesn't pass in the first reading. The conclusion is: 'The College of the Parliamentary House of BiH will call on competent (entity, counties) for higher education to be seen about amending the Framework Law in terms of the necessary financial resources, do they need additional funding and are they possible? Time to second reading." Why am I suggesting this? So here the truth writes nicely in the explanation that it's not necessary and I can and it, I can so understand that someone wrote here that students have at it right, but about their cost. If that's the point of the promoter, then I'll be against it, but I don't think that's the point. Because if it says they don't need extra funding, then I understand it's in the student's pocket, and it shouldn't be like that. You see, counterpart Nanić said nicely that some cantons and others who need it do not co-finance student homes, student cafeterias etc.. Let them know if this is possible or not. If they find it not possible, that there are no sports grounds, we give him the right, and we don't know where he's going to perform these sports activities, where he's going to be cultural, etc. I don't think that should be the point of framework law, but I repeat, as in one of my replicas, I will personally support this law in the first reading, I will have amendments, but I would ask my colleagues, if the first reading passes, to support this conclusion. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-BA_2010-07-14-0.u36154	Thank you. No more reports, closing the hearing. At present, we have finished the debate on the 6th point of the agenda, now it is the 7th point, usually it is behind the 6th point, and as we have announced earlier because of the need for meetings in several committees we will now give a break by 15.00 hours. Please be specific. We'll continue at 15.00 hours. [[PAUZA]] Ladies and gentlemen of the Parliament, honored guests, please take your seats, continue our work. We're at point 7. Ad. Seven. Information from the Ministry of Security of Bosnia and Herzegovina on the police aspects of the 'Lightness' action and the measures taken by the team for the occasion, material number: 01,02-4-395-1/10 of 25. Six. 2010 50
ParlaMint-BA_2010-07-14-0.u36157	/no microphone turned on/
ParlaMint-BA_2010-07-14-0.u36158	Business intervention, esteemed second Vice-President Dr. Milorad Živković.
ParlaMint-BA_2010-07-14-0.u36159	Nothing special, just for efficiency, if you agree to unite these two points of the agenda as one and the debate to lead both of us in order not to waste time on replicas etc. on two points of the agenda. The minister is here, and he can give you both information. Thank you.
ParlaMint-BA_2010-07-14-0.u36160	Thank you. Not to ask, is there any opposition to this proposal? _________(?) There is. It does, doesn't it? Dear Representative Mirko Okolić.
ParlaMint-BA_2010-07-14-0.u36162	I don't think it's a bad idea, Mr. Živković, but on one condition. Since this is likely to be a topic that will cause quality debates and then be in a situation where anyone who discusses it will only have the right to one discussion and two replicas instead of two discussions and two replicas, maybe we should take care of it and, let's say, let's make a double of whether the discussion in the time period of discussion or the number of replicas, so let's see how things stand there. Thank you. 51
ParlaMint-BA_2010-07-14-0.u36163	Quantity was never a guarantee of quality. The next is distinguished representative Denis Bećirović.
ParlaMint-BA_2010-07-14-0.u36164	Well, I'll do it very briefly. I suggest we work in accordance with the Rules of Procedure, so we adopted the agenda and I suggest we consider the points separately as we have adopted the agenda. There.
ParlaMint-BA_2010-07-14-0.u36165	Since there are opposing positions, so we can make it, but the House has to make a statement on a decision to unify the debate on both points of the agenda, and whether the House will make such a decision, here, we will now see. So please prepare to vote. The proposal is to bring together a debate on points 7 and 8. Vote now! 16 votes "yes", nine "against", without "abstained" votes. Insufficient entity majority. Second round of voting. Vote now! 17 votes "yes", nine "against", without "abstained" votes. Insufficient votes "against". I find that the proposal has been accepted, so we are uniting the debate on points 7 and 8. So before we open the debate on both sides, I will present to you the opening remarks on point 8. Ad. 8. Information from the Council of Ministers of Bosnia and Herzegovina on the terrorist attack on the Police Administration in Bugojn (the conclusion of the House of 80th session, held on 30th). Six. 2010) At the 80th session of the House of Representatives, we received oral information from the Deputy Minister of Security about the terrorist attack, and we adopted a conclusion that we tasked the Council of Ministers with providing us with complete information on the attack by this session. As I have already noted, the material needed to discuss this agenda point has not been obtained, but from the Joint Defence and Security Committee we have received a proposal for a measure to the Ministry of Security and Information and proposed measures by BiH police agencies regarding the terrorist attack on the Police Administration in Bugojn and the opinion of the Joint Commission on these materials which this commission did not support. A college in an extended composition decided to serve the material for discussion. I am now opening a united debate on points 7 and 8. Does the minister want to start by speaking to you? He does. 52 Dear Minister of Security and Deputy Chairman of the Council of Ministers Sadik Ahmetović.
ParlaMint-BA_2010-07-14-0.u36167	Dear colleagues, respected present, therefore, this first information is in a certain way information about police actions, and this second one mainly came out of why there was no reaction, so sometimes we have an obligation to write information and why it was an action and why, yes, there was no adequate reaction in the event of a terrorist attack in Bugojn. When it comes to Information on Light, you have obtained it in the form of how much the Ministry of Security could collect information from law enforcement agencies in BiH and you have generally received it, so in this report. So here I am going to pass a little bit, not to read the entire report, there is no need, because you have it, so it's the order of the Court and the Prosecutor's Office of BiH. The federal police department has formed a headquarters for this action she's been running. All BiH police agencies participated in the action. So you have reasons why, based on the data collected... the BiH Prosecutor's Office issued an order for this action. What I must tell you, therefore, when it comes to any further information, there is an order from the BiH Prosecutor's Office that for further information only the BiH Prosecutor's Office is competent, and in this context, the Ministry of Security has no room to give any information until the investigation into this case is complete. What I've been orally informed by the prosecution that at this stage, it's about the art of findings and objects and everything that's been taken away or seized, let's just say, in Maoca. And when it's all over, it's gonna be a little bit, so to speak, and more complete information by the prosecution. The prosecution is in the mood when the investigation ends to inform the public about this case. When it comes to this other information, which you had the opportunity to get from my deputy at last session of Parliament in an oral statement, nothing specific has changed in the information I received from the Federal Police Administration which is also leading the investigation under the orders of the BiH Prosecutor's Office. I didn't get any information from the SIPA, no oral or written. I spoke to the director, and he told me that he couldn't provide information since this case was run by the Federal Police Administration and that they wouldn't interfere with this investigation. So, on top of that, this is information from our ministry and information we've gathered so far. So, I have to inform you that we haven't received, so at our request all the information we've been looking for. We received information from the Federal Police Administration and information from the BiH Intelligence Agency and information from the Public Security Station or Security Bugojno. We didn't get all the other information. The procedure, therefore, of the Council of Ministers: only today have we adopted the conclusion of the Parliamentary Assembly of BiH at the Council of Ministers' meeting, under which this ministry is required to bring all this together and deliver it to the Council of Ministers. You are informed here by the chairman that there was also a session of this Committee on Defence and Security attended by all the directors of the agencies who were invited that day, so the Director of Intelligence, Director of the Federal Police Administration, the SIPA Director and the Chief Prosecutor of BiH. At that meeting, everyone therefore orally or in writing submitted their reports and on the basis of the earlier conclusion of this Defence and Security Committee, we were obliged to propose certain measures concerning the attack, a terrorist act in Bugojn. In the meantime, here I learned today and it's worth informing you that today the Federal Security Committee has also met where they've ordered an investigation within the Public Security Station to be conducted by the kantonalan Police Department, because 53 have some new information that I don't have, when it comes to failures at the police station itself in Bugojn, which is why a police officer died here. With this in mind as the minister of security and jurisdiction that I have, I must therefore say one more thing to you in terms of speculation and what is often repeated in the media, and these are reports from the Ministry of Security in BiH, so whether or not there are people associated with terrorism and international terrorism in BiH. So, you must know, and you know, I believe you know that since we were colleagues until yesterday, what are the responsibilities of the Ministry and how the Ministry works or proposes information for the BiH Parliament. The quality of information received by the BiH Parliament depends solely on the quality and information it receives from BiH police agencies that have operational competence. And when we wrote in this report that there are no individuals or groups associated with international terrorism, but that possibility is never ruled out, it's exclusively prescribed from the information we received from the Intelligence Agency and the Agency for Investigation and Protection. So neither comma nor dot add, nor do we have the right to do so, nor does the Ministry have the capacity or jurisdiction to verify that information. These are exclusively operational information given to us by law enforcement agencies which have exclusive jurisdiction over this. And you know these agencies have full independence when it comes to operational jurisdiction, human authority and financial jurisdiction. Whether these are failures, advantages, flaws, when it comes to the security system in BiH, we need to see, analyse here in the BiH Parliament. I told Parliament the day before yesterday that when the problem occurs, the minister is expected to have the capacity he once had, not to say Duško Zgonjanin, and when we make laws and laws that are currently in force, then we have a minister in the capacity of a solid clerk who is mostly a permissive station for materials from agencies to the Council of Ministers or Parliament. So that's our truth. So whether it's good or not, so here I am opening it up, I'm asking you that question. If it is good, let us conclude, if it is not good, let us change the extent to which it is possible to change in accordance with the BiH Constitution. So I don't want to prejudge anything here, or bring anything that doesn't conform to the Constitution. In this regard, the BiH Ministry of Security has also proposed certain measures, therefore from its jurisdiction, and we heard from the chairman that others have also proposed certain measures under their jurisdiction, especially in the case of operational work. The Ministry of Security has suggested that these laws that are in the procedure eventually receive passage to the BiH Parliamentary Assembly, whether in this form or some form that is acceptable to obtain passage, so here we are to say here what the problems are in the laws themselves, whether it is possible to change anything, to correct that they get a pass in the BiH Parliament. There were words here this morning at this debate on the amendment and completion of the Code of Secret Information and I believe that the protection of classified information and here is one of the measures of the Ministry of Security is this, the proposal for a Law on Weapons, the Proposal for a Law on the Transport of Dangerous Matters, the Proposal for a Law on the Protection of Witnesses in BiH. Someone asked a question this morning, so we already have a case in Bugojn that certain persons will not, should not or do not know what the reason is to testify in the BiH Prosecutor's Office. I have referred to the procedure of the Bill on Amendments and Supplements of the Law on the Prevention of Money Laundering and Financing of Terrorist Activities in BiH. It's a new form, so far we've had this institution inside the Agency for Investigation and Protection and in conversation with the Director we both agreed that something needs to be changed here since we have continued bad reports... And what I still want to mention is why we had restrictions on this law; because 54 employment of good experts in banking, accounting, accounting is limited because if this is in a police agency, it has to be a police officer. So now we've taken down this burden that must be a police officer, opened up space for people who are dealing with this agency to deal with the prevention of money laundering and financing terrorist activities not to be police officers, to open up the possibility of hiring experts from these areas who will certainly respond better to this job. Since cooperation is necessary when it comes to preventing or preventing terrorism and we must have good police agreements with neighbouring countries, at least in neighbouring countries, these days we have completed an agreement with Croatia, and also a few days ago, Mr Krešić initialled an agreement with Serbia, which is likely to be signed after this procedure with the Republic of Serbia. At the proposal of the director of the BiH Intelligence and Security Agency and the considerations that came from the BiH Intelligence and Security Agency, one of the proposals is for the Intelligence and Security Agency to be given police authority. So, this is one of the proposals for measures and I believe that such amendments and additions of laws will be sent by this Directorate or Director of the Intelligence Service of BiH. Initiate the adoption of a law on... prevention and the fight against terrorism in BiH, I think it is a key law that this parliament should decide whether it will have at the state level or not. I signed a task force today to build one of those laws. I think that we need to turn the anti-terrorism strategy into a law, and I believe that this will give us a greater degree of responsibility for all those working on prevention and combating terrorism. I also spoke with Minister Čolak this morning and one of the Security Ministry's proposals, and Minister Čolak agreed with it, is making changes and additions to the BiH Criminal Law in part of sanctions, namely the range of penalties related to the crimes of the fight against BiH's integrity and crimes against humanity and values protected by international law, with a special emphasis on the crime of terrorism, financing terrorist activity, public stimulation of terrorist activities, recruitment for terrorist activity, training for the exercise of terrorist activity and the organisation of terrorist groups. And what we have suggested here is that this Joint Commission has one thematic session to discuss the implementation of the Strategy... to combat terrorism. These are therefore measures proposed by the Ministry of Security. So, I don't know if this information and the measures proposed by other police agencies have been shared, and I believe that everything that my colleagues put forward on this Commission for defence and security and proposed, so in their measures, I think it opens up and provides opportunities for better legislation from this area to create a better and more efficient space for police agencies to fight this more successfully. That is, here I am all the questions, but I will ask all of you, therefore, to have in mind what the capacity of the minister is and what are the powers of the minister. So don't, so I'll just answer those questions that are from the Department of Security's jurisdiction. All of what's in the D.A.'s jurisdiction, the Intelligence and Security Agency, the police departments, is not my jurisdiction. And sometimes in the memos that we send them, there are such memos, although it has not happened to me, but there has been before in some period that is behind me, when a sentence is written: 'It is not your jurisdiction, we are autonomous and we will not give you information'. So it happened a few years ago and so there are such memos. 55 I call on you to have a quality, I would say, discussion because I think it is a serious problem that needs to be seriously discussed in BiH, which should be dealt with, because facing the problem is certainly the assumption that it should be resolved more effectively and more quickly. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-BA_2010-07-14-0.u36168	I thank the honourable Minister Sadik Ahmetović. Here, for the debate, is the first distinguished representative, Martin Raguž.
ParlaMint-BA_2010-07-14-0.u36169	I thank you, Mr. President. In last session of the House, I asked the Council of Ministers and the Ministry of Security about this terrorist attack in Bugojn and the Security Council's assessment of how it is possible for such situations to take place on BiH's soil, and why the Council of Ministers did not react without spot then sending a clear message that in this country all laws and the Constitution will guarantee the security of citizens and property. And as correct as this information was given by the Minister of Security and this information we received, I actually don't see that right answer, either in these written materials or in this report by the Minister, and that's why I'm going to say the following. So, the fact is that dispersed legislative jurisdiction on these issues is from BiH level to entity, canton, county to municipality. The fact is that we have been reforming the entire system and that it has to a lesser or higher extent exhausted the creative potentials that such a constitution and constitutional order provides so that it can deal with it responsibly, not only with our own but with a global problem. And the fact is that today, from the Minister of Security behind this speaker, we get one true assessment that he is only here in the position of one, I would say conditionally, a clerk; this does not question his integrity professionally but the capacity that the law has provided for him. And we have a situation that all those who were on the occasion to see what happened in Bugojn, in fact, need to know that it was a direct attack on the state and we need to know here today that there was no adequate response from the state to that attack. Here, that's the core of the discussion that made me answer. And the fact is that there will be no adequate response until the reports that everything is okay are signed by the most responsible intelligence agency officials based on what further activities are doing, and after 15 or a few days something quite the opposite happens and no one is responsible for those assessments. Both the public and this parliament must know that this situation is still absolutely unsustainable. Numbers of 3,000 or some others that are speculated and spoken clearly warn therefore that this world phenomenon, which is among the three or four top priorities for responsible countries and institutions today - the fight against terrorism - does not mean something that is out of the question BiH itself. The fact is that the circumstances of the war and the severity of the suffering that was in BiH have opened up a certain kind of additional space that can encourage the strengthening of such an approach to BiH, but I really don't think it's anything that's quite different from the rest of the context, it's just that it's ezemplatically different from that problem because this country doesn't have the instruments to deal adequately with it. And the whole point of the story is that. So, in my opinion, that I am not going back to police reform and all that is left, so I do not question capacity and legitimacy and competences of entities or cantonal 56 ministries, without one central state body that would take responsibility in terms of prevention, organisation, logistics, and the fact that these people there have specific conditions under which they can carry arms and fight back enough talks about themselves, therefore this Parliament has a responsibility to take stronger and more responsible approaches to these measures that we have received here from these agencies which are essentially not bad, but they are absolutely insufficient in relation to the problem that exists. And what I would suggest here as a conclusion to the House is that regardless of these restrictive legal competencies, it prevents you and the Council of Ministers from coming out with a much more serious and broad initiative on the basis of these solutions what needs to be changed in laws. You have today said which laws and what should be passed, it is encouraging but not enough and that we have one designed strategy that the new government and this parliament will join after the elections because further pushing their heads into the sand and putting things under the carpet, so I'm afraid it will cost us all together. Thank you.
ParlaMint-BA_2010-07-14-0.u36170	Thank you. The next is Remzija Kadrić, a respected representative.
ParlaMint-BA_2010-07-14-0.u36171	I thank you, Chairman. So, when it comes to this information from the BiH Ministry of Security on the police aspects of the 'Lightness' action, at least when it comes to this information, we currently have a bar in the country according to the Information: eight attackers to the constitutional order and territorial integrity of BiH, seven of which are citizens of BiH, and the eighth as a foreigner is deported to Croatia. So, these attackers on the constitutional order of BiH used 18 guns, 7 rifles, 30 gun frames, etc., 70 cell phones, 19 cell phone SIM cards, etc. And that's fortunately taken from those people. And those men were in custody for 23 days and released from custody. What am I saying that you wouldn't really go wide? I want to say that if this is the only list of those who are destroying the constitutional order and the territorial integrity of BiH, then this problem is indeed being solved, and we are aware that everyone here and the public is aware that those who destroy BiH's constitutional order and territorial integrity that this list is far greater. Therefore, the Ministry of Security, if we are discussing something, then should we really do one comprehensive analysis, one piece of information to get about who in this country is destroying the constitutional order of BiH and the territorial integrity of BiH, and who are these destroyers of the constitutional order and territorial integrity of BiH? So that's what this should be, this should be just one occasion, and one good analysis should really be done, so let's see who's on the list of those who are against BiH, against the constitutional order, who are destroying, who are disrupting BiH's territorial integrity. Therefore, this information in this regard was meant to be a reason for an overall analysis of such a situation as both the state and society and the citizens of BiH. Thank you. 57
ParlaMint-BA_2010-07-14-0.u36172	Thank you. Next is Honorable Representative Slavko Jovičić.
ParlaMint-BA_2010-07-14-0.u36173	Thank you, Mr. Chairman. Ladies and gentlemen, well, when this one happened, I would say, operational, disorganized, reckless, layishly guided action around Maoče, then I was saying, today I can say something more, but first I'm going to ask: Why today there is no chief prosecutor here to ask him questions and I have the right to, why is there no director of SIPA to ask him too, because the Minister of Security has said what his powers are, what can he do, it's completely clear to us? But let me ask you who ran that action, not that they're telling me how they planned it, but to ask them how they layally made the drama worse than that drama they made there. To engage 650 people with several hundred vehicles, to expand the column to 4 - 5 km, to go to 33 people who are at that moment in Maoca and to make such a spectacle (to exclude what Mr. Honored colleague Kadrić said), so I think that they were not dangerous to that place and not to the state at that time. But there, the sensation was threatened. Now that they've already given such qualifications, and I'm guessing they had, and now the assumption is something else, for an analysis of maybe other intentions, as it is possible for the prosecutor to go public and say "the country's constitutional order at risk," which may be an exact qualification. Well, then, the detachment of the territory. Well, the laws of this country don't apply there. And for this few days as we've heard people get released from custody. So there is no release from custody after hearing for a month, nor is there one who has broken the trade, and not one who has put the state at risk. It must be proven to be a compromised state, put us all at risk. And they let people go! Now, of course I'd like to be here today and the Director of the Intelligence and Security Agency to say right away which in both of these actions was the only one doing the law and giving the right information. Well, I'm not gonna keep it like last time since he already said it yesterday at another home or the day before yesterday, it doesn't matter, and it was already in the media. Now, I would like to ask these police agencies who are in charge of implementing all this which the minister spoke of: Why did not the action take place in July 2009 when a congress was held in this area attended by over 350 people from Austria, Serbia, Macedonia, other countries and domestic ones and gathered together; and the director said all this: here is a unique opportunity for you to break it down so that no one will ever happen again. And remember 2010 33 men? Well, they'd find more of a good host at a haystack in his cell phone than they did there. Now these are the things and information that this Parliament needs to discuss, not what is stated here. I agree with Mr. Minister that this is an official report. What else could a man write if he got from them like that? And he said fine he didn't rewrite the decimal point or the point, and what he could rewrite. But I lack the information that I, as an MP of this country, should ask those who did this, who planned it, send 650 people to 33 people, and more have left Sarajevo to begin with. Well, I guess they've got cell phones, they've been asking someone, so they're gonna tip somebody off. Well, I wish I had, too. I don't think they're running away, but I said these guys are incapable of going to arrest you, they're incompetent, don't be afraid of them. That's what I'd say to them. So, lascivious general. That's a lot of excitement. So layishly unplanned activity. And now we're wondering why it's been so long. And yet I come back, that they wanted to take a serious action, was an opportunity in July of 2009, but good. 58 Now, I'm going back to some of my statements earlier, so I've been charged by some who, fortunately, can't do anything to me, not because of immunity, but because they don't know when I first and here in Parliament gave a qualification of that act in the Knight that it was a terrorist act. That's when I said it was. I'm not waiting for the D.A. to hear what he's about to say. And he's not gonna say he was today. So then I gave some other qualifications when the minister was still Tarik Sadović and, of course, the terrorist act is on Alija Izetbegović's mesar. But is the terrorist act when five tombs are brought down in the Serbian cemetery, people are anonymous, without a name or name. And it's a terrorist act, five graves destroyed by detonations. So is it a terrorist act when a vehicle is blown up by an explosive device that's mounted? Of course it is. But no, we had a report from that minister then and he only said that a single terrorist act was done in BiH, which I agreed to. But if we had taken it seriously then we would have said fine - a terrorist attack is when a bomb is dropped on a Croatian returner in Derventa, a terrorist attack is when ten times a bomb is dropped in Reljevo at the Serbian Orthodox Church. The terrorist attacks are all these here from us 6km or 3km away at the Serbian Orthodox Church when windows crash every three months, throwing explosive devices. It's an act of terrorism when a mosque is attacked and glass is broken. So if we had taken it seriously then, then these potential all of these things would have thought differently. And what I said, because there's something that I have knowledge of coming from that area, any security agency can and is possible to identify terrorists, but never, not a CIA that's the strongest in the world, will ever identify the intentions of terrorists, ever. And that's a problem that no service is ever safe, secret, public, will ever solve. So that's where we had to take care. So then we got what we got, and we had information about this oks, 40 reports from the Intelligence and Security Agency said he was a potential danger. But she couldn't give the Intelligence Security Agency the date and time he was going to do it. And no one was even keeping an eye on him, but a man came in from the other side of the door, waiting for the bag to come in, like he brought some humanitarian help, and now who surprised us. Furthermore, again, this House of Representatives has adopted, on my proposal, to amend and supplement the Criminal Code before, whether now two years or 18 months, it doesn't matter, that no one has taken it seriously, that the state creates mechanisms and legal basis for these agencies to deal with the greatest monsters, and in my opinion, terrorism, drug dealers, trafficking in white slavery, arms, rape of those children of eight and nine years, so I have cited here an example, not Bog that there was a child from our official, five days here to discuss. With some poor girl out there, the D.A.'s already left him. He didn't get six months probation, raped a nine-year-old girl. So I am ashamed as a man, a member, and a messenger, of what they did. But immediately there was information, Mr. MP, you are a politician and must not interfere with the justice system. I'll get mixed up in anything and everything when they do it backwards. I'll get involved in everything because the people didn't tell me to come here and sleep and sit there and defend those unemployed, but to chase them where I can, and where I'm lucky, I'm not allowed to mention some other, other, earlier time, not what was a repressive apparatus but to say, "Do people, get involved in your work, and that's enough." This was a normal country, but such incidents and cases, terrorist acts, don't let us start breathing normally. And now we get information that we, of course, have heard in intelligence commissions before – 3,000 people dangers, and 3,000 people identified! But it's spreading like the propagation of rainworms and especially over there in these parts, how much more potential it is. They're going to sell... there's no nationality here, they're going to sell the father or grandmother, anyway, for 100 marks, if the bid goes away and the mother goes to 110. There, that time has come, everything today has its value, and especially 59 is the simplest value of working against the state and betraying the state and doing everything against it. Now, that's the cheapest thing, 'cause they all hope they won't be sanctioned and caught. So I filed a request and got consent from you here, my colleagues. Why is the state afraid that the maximum sentence of 40 years in prison will be threatened for all of this, which I have numbered these monsters. Well, at least preventative when that dog dealer or terrorist is 25 years old, let him think about getting out of jail at 65, even if he gets scared when these paroled for six months, these unfortunates are supposed to be missing. So, the whole chain here is broken, only we can't catch the main link where they are to connect it. And then, when this happens, like we're surprised. What are we surprised by? The minister here suggested a few laws, I'll only be held for once. Well, the law on preventing riots on sports grounds could have been the easiest thing to do in Parliament. So what was the problem? Well, it makes sense if you play a football game in Banja Luka that will be the jurisdiction of the RS MUP. Why didn't we have the strength to let that happen? But everywhere, the SIPA will be in charge, and you cannot gather them even in Sarajevo to provide us if Bog forbids them. There are no people, hello! Let's commit these institutions that function, to which we gave the legal basis to do the job.
ParlaMint-BA_2010-07-14-0.u36174	Time!
ParlaMint-BA_2010-07-14-0.u36175	Lucky it's the end of time, I'd have three hours to talk. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-BA_2010-07-14-0.u36176	Thank you very much. The next is Honorable Representative Drago Kalabić.
ParlaMint-BA_2010-07-14-0.u36177	Dear Chairman, dear colleagues, when some journalists today asked when the result would be,
ParlaMint-BA_2010-07-14-0.u36178	May I have your attention, please? HONEY
ParlaMint-BA_2010-07-14-0.u36179	: What will be the result of the debate in Parliament here on these two points and what we will contribute, I, God Bog I am right, said earlier that there will be nothing, niche, zero, double-naked, that we will not make any contribution, respecting all these facts that we have and what has been prepared for us today and what has been happening. And what my colleague Jovičić said could be spoken of for three hours and the question of whether it makes sense, because there are a lot of questions that are not answered. This whole situation I would sum up in two findings. So there is an obstruction in BiH of the fight against terrorism, completely clear, visible, defined, and there is no political will in BiH to deal with terrorism. That's two things that clearly come out of all this data that's here and 60 dilemmas and everything that's been brought out. And with such conclusions, unfortunately, I'd like someone to deny me, we'll have to live in some future period. I am saying this for reasons that I have not received an answer on some issues, like all BiH citizens. If it wasn't tragic, it would be comical. I asked the minister, here and today we have contacted about this agenda item on this committee, I would remind you here all if the minister and his ministry had just informed us here in writing that there are no terrorist activities, organisations and the like. Now all of a sudden, a lot of information comes out that there's 3,000 of them. 3,000! His explanation was that he got from others, and that's true. Is that our fault? Do we need to sort out what happened between them now? How is it possible to talk about new measures when you have an obstruction of existing ones? How can you get into a situation where you're looking for something new? It means impossible. How is it possible that new legal solutions will improve the situation and we are obstructing and not using the capacities of the existing ones, this is clearly visible? How is it possible for the United States and other powerful countries of the world to raise all their security capacities at the appearance of three people who have ties to terrorism? And we here for the 3,000 story, the official story, the official agency, I wish we could talk about it if it wasn't true, it would be easier for me and all of us. I wish that information wasn't true or that someone could shoot her down, deny her, then all this other stuff and I'm talking about falling into the water. But unfortunately, we are now officially operating with an official data of 3,000 people who have something to do with it. How is it possible that after 3,000 people, the BiH Presidency has not held a single session? He's just not talking about terrorism. How is it possible that the Council of Ministers didn't talk about this? The letters, and the Council of Ministers! And what are we talking about? I'm not talking about effects, I'm talking about the political will to make a contribution. Severe accusations have been made in a report by security agencies: the obstruction and flirting of individual political centres of power with terrorist organisations, activists and similar ones. That's where it says it. That's what someone has to imagine. That's where people said it was happening. That because of the support of financial, political and each other, there was a number of 3,000 and, what Jovičić said, who knows how much he's going on. What, they're without financial support, without political support? That's not true. The RS was carrying a heavy burden, you remember the weather well, and we have suffered great pressures here when it came to the arrest of Hague indictees, every day, was bombed daily to perform obstructions, not to work, to do so, to do so. And that was one heavy burden that RS was dealing with so-so. That story is solved. But it was a heavy burden. And it was very hard to carry. And one way or another, it's settled. We got rid of that burden. Unfortunately, the Federation is now being burdened with this kind of obstruction. They didn't want to, many admitted it, but it's a fact. And we're gonna have to, and we don't want to, or anyone, but crazy can be glad that the burden on someone else is for some evil that concerns all of us. But the fact is, the mass of this data says that there's a lot wrong, it's not responding, and that you can't today, today they've opened an investigation at the police station in Bugojn. So don't be ridiculous. It's probably just up until today, you know, pull it up, those who say they're going to lead the investigation and those who say they're not going, you know. There's the key. It's the key to the whole story: who are those who think it's not a problem, who are the ones who would like to transfer this to another field, that's impossible, unfortunately impossible. Terrorism is a unique term. It has unique and clear features. I can't change. We didn't define it, it was defined by much more powerful countries of the world and what no one in the world can accept, so that fight is hard, uncertain, long-term. But no one alive can accept the lack of political will and obstruction from official state authorities. See how much time we spend just to get a simple report. As for, I said, the capacity in this ministry could now discuss why 61 existing capacities have not been used. Will some other people come to Bugojn and a variety of troublesome legal changes? Will political relations change? He won't. Whatever we adopt, the same people, the same groups, the same political groups and individuals and citizens are waiting for the same problem. We don't have to import. What do we have to leave to NATO now to say - we don't know how to deal with this, let you handle this. That's impossible. You can cross-reference and here some of you have talked about these excuses today, as you know, not to face the problem, but if it were even then it might work. It wouldn't work. Because this isn't going to work, it can't go either. I wish. Surely everyone is ready to participate in the legislation until the end to improve it, but no one is naive to not knowing what it is to not use existing capacities and problems, because I have not heard from the minister that measures are proposed to say whether some organisations should be banned. I didn't hear that. So that's what I'd like to hear. If they're heavy charges on their account, will we continue to fund them, will we let them act, and at the same time in the reports you write that they have the sounds of terrorists? So you have to tell us. I don't believe it takes much controversy and some kind of special debate. I'm saying again, we could ask countless questions. The D.A.'s office has been adamantly evading with the floxulas: the investigation is ongoing. What kind of investigation? To my Parliament. And look at the headlines, foreign citizens, foreign governments report reports daily to them, but not to their parliament, they are defended by a flossule: the investigation is under way. How can a SIPA investigation be entrusted in the government building in Banja Luka and they search until the last piece of paper? But SIPA doesn't have the authority to conduct an investigation in Bugojn, right, Minister? She is, that's where it was given to the federal administration. Why did we form the SIPA? Why didn't we give the SIPA and see if it had the capacity? It's operational data, but very important, very important. I agree, do not tell me that the same political centres do not decide in Sarajevo, Bugojn, Mostar and the like. It was avoided by Mr. Raguž to talk about it, and very skillfully. He kept it quiet, looking for an excuse in the new regulations. It's clear here that we need to stop at these two things, see how we can organize ourselves, look eventually in the eyes of the truth. Only a crazy man can refuse to give, or be against, the contribution to resolving this issue. I do not believe that there is a malevolent man in BiH who does not want to do well here and who does not want to fight against such a monster with all his means because at least these days there was a clear concern of all BiH citizens. Only the evildoers can bring with any faith. You're just being mean! Do not tell me that incidents are extremists and individuals of the essence of some faith and religious organization. Because if I did, I wouldn't be here today. And you can't attribute it to one religion, one people and the like. Only someone can have an excuse for obstruction. Because an individual is not faith, an individual is not a people. And we also have this situation, like some people who have to do their job find themselves in an excuse: you know, some people, some people, some people, some things like that. I think at this point, that's where I'm going to end up, any journalists, any security organization itself, have provided quite enough data for action. That's enough. When all this is exhausted and all these jobs are done, then we can see and discuss what is a lack of capacity for the Witness Protection Act; it is perfectly logical that this story should be completed. What will witness protection do when a man himself admits to dealing with these activities? He doesn't need a witness. In America, you can't rip a single word out of it with pliers. And then you're looking for evidence and witnesses and stuff, because it's a problem of proof. There's a man on the street writing what he's doing, telling the public on television shows what he's up to, what he's doing and what he's gonna do. What witness? Who needs a witness for that sort of thing? Take down the state, take down the police station, attack the constitutional order, say it public, and that's why we need someone, like we need a witness to testify, so we don't have the law. Thank you. 62
ParlaMint-BA_2010-07-14-0.u36180	Thank you. The next is distinguished representative Bakir Izetbegović.
ParlaMint-BA_2010-07-14-0.u36181	So a lot has already been said in previous discussions, so I won't repeat myself. I would especially support what Mr. Raguž, colleague Raguž and Jovičić said. I think we should support the proposals made by this ministry, Minister, to pass laws, to provide financial, material, human resources, the prerequisites for us to face terrorism more effectively. This is where I would tell Mr. Jovičić, so the law that we have proposed to prevent violence at sports events did not foresee any transfer of jurisdiction, no. In Banja Luka, the RS police were in charge, and I don't know why that law wasn't passed. Otherwise, we should adopt a series of these laws that have fallen in this house so that we can work more efficiently, and by saying Mr. Kalabić, deny that someone really is planting the clips of the fight against terrorism, segregating funds, passing laws, creating an organization that can systematically and vigorously oppose this phenomenon. And the man who did what he did in Bugojn is a freak, and I think it's one autonomous, not tied to some scheme, especially some international scheme. They knew him up there, he bought explosives from these separation lines, there from the minefields. Well, those people knew him all the way out there. He was a little self-inflicted. So, the former rocker who was making trouble, fighting over Internet clubs, not going to the mosque, had some visions of his own. I don't think he was tied up in some kind of system and I think it's good if that's the case, I think that's how it is. Normally, before this, this attack in the Knights was a terrorist act, as Mr. Jovičić said, but also the attack on Željko kopanje and Vukelić in Banja Luka, all of these terrorist acts are inspired in various ways of various interests. With regard to radicalism, including religious radicalism in BiH, I think it has its roots in stress, in the traumas that the people went through, that this is one of the phenomena, the dimension of some post-traumatic syndrome in BiH. So that it was caused by violence that had not responded with one answer, that is to say, to the violence that was taking place here in the recent past. America knows about the Amish, about the Quakers, about people who have their own way of life, not television, not electricity, they have their suits with short pants, with long beards. And everything's fine until they attack other people and start making them live the way they think the whole world should live. They can't plant bombs, they can wear pants and beards whatever they want, right? And, the force for the state to respond to radicalism must be surgically precise. It must only refer to people who threaten the safety of other people. It shouldn't be trampled into the realm of human rights, too wide-ranging, hitting people who have a bit more radical views than our own, because that's when these people would experience violence twice. I talked to some people who belonged to that Wahhabi movement and regularly had some frustration. This was the one that killed the bomb when he was 18 years old and had both births in front of his eyes. This second one was already, like, 19-20 years old without both legs, and so on. And now, if they weren't really planning something, if they just decided on some Islam of their own, right, as they see it, so now they're back to being the subject of harassment, well, then it might be that we from one benign 63 process create a malignant process and I don't think they should be that way. Here's the best I'm saying, I don't mean to amnest some people at all, some things, that in this way we should approach it, so surgically precise, by force; and where it deserves force, by force. I generally think that with this kind of people, one work, one dialogue, healing programs, unwrapping some knots that got stuck in their heads, not by tightening those knots. Every religion, here's Christianity, is it, 10 of God's commandments, I think it's 3. Do not kill God's command, and in the Qur'an you have again, who kills one man as if he killed the whole world. So faith is light, faith is not dark, and what this man has done up in Bugojn, what they are doing is dark, and I think that's how it should be understood and accepted and done in such a way. Thank you.
ParlaMint-BA_2010-07-14-0.u36182	Thank you. Replica, distinguished representative Momčilo Novaković.
ParlaMint-BA_2010-07-14-0.u36183	Thank you, Mr. Chairman. I have to say that I was going to discuss this, but I'm going to use this replica to say a few sentences and I really don't think the discussions make any sense. I don't think we have a chance. After discussion between Mr. Kadrić and Mr. Izetbegović, it is clear that we have no chance. Not only this assembly of Parliament, there is not a single assembly of Parliament unless political will is achieved here. Gentlemen, we have no political will for this. _________(?) Of what? Political will. Please, I can't believe that besides all these reports the agency we're supposed to say now, here, it's some individual case there, some rocker there. The ones who let their beards go and drop bombs are fascists, the other ones who let their beards go and drop bombs are rockers. These are a little more modern, these are lagging behind. Guys, what are we talking about? Do we think that's how we're gonna solve the problem, that's all? If we think this is a solution to the problem, let's all push that side to say no. So far, we've been yelling that there isn't, and now we've got it, and now we're gonna yell again that it's not until someone's harder for us to have, with much more serious consequences and a lot more casualties. And yet we'll say it doesn't exist, etc., etc. This debate doesn't make sense today without the director of the agencies we set up. She doesn't make any sense. She doesn't make sense without a prosecutor. It doesn't make sense without the director of the SIPA. She doesn't make sense without the Director of Intelligence. It doesn't make sense if we put things on two sides radically. On the one hand, we have one radicalism that says that all of this can be solved by centralizing in the area of security and we're done with the job. Another radicalism or another story, it's a dangerous story, is that it binds itself to one people, one faith, supporters of one faith, etc. If that's how we're arguing here today, we don't stand a chance, and we start discussing it like that. Unfortunately, we started to discuss it that way. Unfortunately, we started to discuss it that way. 64 And I am, and here I am ending this, I can't believe I've heard these two or three findings and now we need to turn this into a debate that has nothing to do with an act in Maoca and... down this terrorist act. Well, people, everyone here wrote about how they've conducted the action according to the assessment, these security actions, here's to not talking about Maoča, everyone wrote that they didn't miss, that this, that what, then we get up and say -- they don't have anything to do with it. What they wrote there has nothing to do with what they're doing there is a profession, but they don't, and we put them there. And we didn't replace any of them, and no one resigned. I won't discuss it anymore, but after these few discussions I'm really disappointed, convinced that we don't really have a serious chance, in this summation not safe and in the next one, and in the next one, if we don't all realize that this is a much bigger problem than we seem to realize today.
ParlaMint-BA_2010-07-14-0.u36185	Thank you. The next replica is the second vice president of Dr. Milorad Živković.
ParlaMint-BA_2010-07-14-0.u36186	Thank you. Here, this is more like an incorrect quote. In fact, honourable MPs, today we have on the agenda a matter of life and co-existence in BiH, not a question of the responsibility of the minister of security here. It means life and co-existence in BiH are at stake here. I could tell the Minister of Security why it wasn't put on the agenda of the Council of Ministers, let's say this information. There was a meeting today, and it was supposed to come and give the Council of Ministers about it because in your jurisdiction it says that coordination is one of your jobs. Behind you is the minister who co-ordinates daily with both the health ministries and the education ministries, and that, let me say, is in the job description because it does it great, so that you can do it without anyone defending you. But it's not on the agenda here today, it's the Secretary of Security's responsibility, and today it's on the agenda of life and co-existence. It is also an incorrect allegation according to Izetbegović, a respected MP. BiH as a difficult patient is going through all phases. The first stage is to run away from the disease and that the symptoms it has lead to benign, as you said, although everyone around it warns that they are not at all benign symptoms and that one man has turned away, problematic, and does not say what is wrong with those 3,000, that it is necessary to face another stage with the truth. As a difficult patient, accept a diagnosis that is undisputed based on research into medical findings and examinations, and then accept treatment that needs to be radical. Because if it's not radical, there's only one outcome of that difficult patient. We didn't mean even the first phase was to face the truth and not to accept any further diagnosis from symptoms that are not benign at all. Let's skip this step and move on, see if we have a chance in BiH to preserve both the life and the life of all citizens.
ParlaMint-BA_2010-07-14-0.u36187	Thank you. The next replica is the esteemed representative Bakir Izetbegović. 65
ParlaMint-BA_2010-07-14-0.u36188	Well, now there will be Mr. Živković, yes, so life and co-existence. I don't know, but 102 returnees were killed in RS in about 10 years of return. Is that terrorism when some 16-year-old girl gets shot through the head? Is it a threat to life and co-existence? This man Oks, did he say anything, make a little fun of being a rocker, so he was a rocker, a freak man. There, he did this thing. But Pukanić's murderers and kopanje and Vukelić didn't have a beard. Are they amnesty because they have no beard. So we don't have the appearance of people, we have one lunatic who did this thing in Bugojn, killed a Shahid brother. He shot a Muslim Muslimanka, didn't he? What co-existence, with whom co-existence, with Musliman from Bugojna threatened? I don't know, really a colleague, based on what you think we don't have a chance. I said today that we should pass laws and separate resources and material and each other and personnel fill it all out. And here, if there are 3,000, let them all discover, let them all be arrested. But I of this one Oks make it now into... 3,000, it's inconclusive to tell you right, but I'll support everything that potential terrorists get caught, whether they have that beard or not. This benign, malignant thing, I just said that we need to be surgically precise, not to hit on people who aren't guilty. That's all. Not to be 3,000 people now because there are 3,000 beards in BiH and short pants. That's not the criteria for determining who's a terrorist and who's not a terrorist. I didn't say any more than that. Thank you.
ParlaMint-BA_2010-07-14-0.u36189	The next replica is Remzija Kadrić's esteemed representative.
ParlaMint-BA_2010-07-14-0.u36190	I thank you, Chairman. So, the honourable MP with experience Momčilo Novaković knows well, and we all know well here, and I was saying that the list of those who destroy the constitutional order and territorial integrity of BiH is far greater than this list that we have here according to this information 'Light'. And we know well where those who destroy the constitutional order and the territorial integrity of BiH come from. And he knows that as well as Momčilo Novaković. So these things are quite clear, and for these reasons I talked about these things. So we have a chance to stand up to all this, but we need to have one comprehensive analysis. We need someone here to prepare us at the Ministry of Security to know who all those who are every day destroying the constitutional order and territorial integrity of BiH. Novaković knows that, we all know that and, therefore, we have to talk about these things.
ParlaMint-BA_2010-07-14-0.u36191	Thank you. The next replica is distinguished representative Drago Kalabić. 66
ParlaMint-BA_2010-07-14-0.u36192	Well, you see, it's not good to caricate this. I think it's too dangerous. We've caricated a lot of things in this House, but I don't think we should do this and shouldn't. I really don't think there's one person at risk here or I don't know either. I think all the citizens of this country feel the same way and now we can say they'll be there, they'll be here. I think this is what very serious people do in the world, and they've defined the thing here. In addition to all the criticisms, our agencies have provided such data that no one is disproved to date. People who came from outside cannot have posttraumatic stress syndrome, Mr. Izetbegović. They can't. The kind of stress he has, the one who came, who doesn't even have this country's documents, has certain intentions, which the agency has determined to have. And I mean, no country in the world has ever had a gram of understanding for what is marked by terrorism or not terrorism. I said at the beginning of my discussion: let's talk about the problem, deny it if it isn't, but if it's terrorism, I don't know if we should put on monitors what's a feature of terrorism. You can't flirt with terrorism. You can't have understanding with terrorism. You can pull someone out and take off his markings, in a way deny that he has features, but if he has certain features – bring him straight with anything! The world has set terrorism to number one, and beyond that, other numbers are empty, like a global danger. It's not fascism anymore, I don't know, I don't know, or organized crime, or anything else, as very important negative things. Terrorism one, two, three and a hundred numbers. We didn't set it up. The way we act, you all shut up about someone financing you. That's what you keep your mouth shut about. Well, it's not, when it comes to money, I'm not sure it's ideology or anything else. What are the intentions of the countries that finance this? Is there any squabbling with the representatives of those countries that someone doesn't ask them what their goal is? That's not what I said. That's what the agencies said there was. What are the intentions of these countries towards BiH if they do, even though it is the result of what we have or only what we will have. For all sorts of reasons, you can underestimate that thing or bypass it like it rains around Kragujevac, but you can't do one. You can't minimize the danger of this thing for anyone in this country. The sooner we face it, the more I remain in that assessment that today's discussions, international conflicts, civil war, I don't know everything else, the hundred have the definition of such negative behaviors and phenomena, but terrorism is a separate phenomenon. You can't, law and justice are absolutely clear about the definition and relationship of this and the degree of danger established. I don't think BiH is able to move the borders there now and change those definitions and set them differently for things completely clear, familiar. The point is, will people sit down?
ParlaMint-BA_2010-07-14-0.u36193	Time! HONEY
ParlaMint-BA_2010-07-14-0.u36194	: (I finish), either fight with it or continue to seek justification for it.
ParlaMint-BA_2010-07-14-0.u36195	Thank you. The next replica is the esteemed representative Husein Nanić. 67
ParlaMint-BA_2010-07-14-0.u36196	I thank you, Chairman. Here, I am the presentation of Mr. Novaković (I am truly sorry that he is not here) and so far in his term I appreciate him as a very serious MP who is accessing fundamentally all documents and laws, and then I was really discouraged by his finding when he says that BiH has no chance on these issues. I would like to put that thing on the table, here and today, and talk as much as it takes, as long as it takes an institution, as much as anyone should be involved in this debate, that from this house, from this house, from this house, from the highest legislative body in BiH, we send different messages. And that there is no reduction in danger or enlargement, what Mr. Kalabić says, that we do not have the right, that no one here has the right to settle now to some opposition, position, to protect the people, or to know who, but to really approach this problem responsibly. And it definitely doesn't need to be removed from the table. I'd like to hear what solutions are from people who really know this, whose waist this is, what solutions are at this point. What are short-term, what is a long-term solution? What is a sustainable solution to solve this problem? And I agree with everything he said about the need for all those who are responsible to be present here and who carry functions in BiH on this issue. And it's really very rude why these people aren't here. And then who do they answer to? If the BiH Parliamentary Assembly is discussing this issue today and if this is a normal regular item of the agenda and we have been waiting for this agenda for a month, why are these people not here? Where will he be and when will he be? Is this just a question of our MPs? I think it's irresponsible of them and that in any case what Mr. Novaković said that they all had to be here, they all had to be here. And I as an MP, so as a man with a name and a last name I really want, what Mr. Kalabić was saying, I don't want to leave any doubt that we don't have to clear up all the things that concern terrorism in BiH: how many of them are there, how much has he developed, does it have any ratio? I really want absolutely to give support to all the institutions and to us here in Parliament to discuss the matter to the end that at this moment as far as we can see, we can make a quality solution to stop this thing and come to a solution.
ParlaMint-BA_2010-07-14-0.u36197	Thank you. The next replica is the esteemed representative Željko Kuzmanović.
ParlaMint-BA_2010-07-14-0.u36198	Thank you, Mr. Chairman. Ladies and gentlemen of Parliament, well, I don't know how to read, and if I hadn't read Mr. Juva's report, or Director of the Intelligence and Security Agency, listening to the presentation of the esteemed Mr. Izetbegović, I would have thought that the root cause of the terrorist attacks in BiH was rock and roll. I truly appreciate and respect you, but I think it is extremely unserious in this way to degrade the operational data of this agency, which is probably the most addressed in the area. As for Mr. Kadrić's presentation, the discussion, this is about the discussion of Maoca and Bugojn, not some other accompanying terrorist acts, you have this report by the director of 68 OSA which clearly and unequivocally identifies the problem and proposes measures to suppress and such retrogeneous phenomena, not within one musical direction but within one faith. That's it.
ParlaMint-BA_2010-07-14-0.u36199	Thank you. The next replica is the esteemed representative Bakir Izetbegović.
ParlaMint-BA_2010-07-14-0.u36200	So, is the bomb of this oks something different from those bombs that blew up the legs of Željko Kopanji and who killed Pukanić, is it some Islamic bomb so that it's something different and that it needs to be treated specifically? One so happens, one. We are now talking about 3,000 terrorists, although we had this report from the ministry a month ago that there is no indication that there is terrorism related to international terrorism in BiH. It is said, now Kalabić is saying that they have information about that it is international financing, so it turns into one phenomenon of huge dimensions and proportions, a dangerous phenomenon. Well, then we also read from officials that terrorism is supported by the top of the Islamic community and the people at the top of the government. So now one brand-new dimension and the physionomy of it is being obtained on the basis of one terrorist act. Well, it's not my fault that this guy was a rocker. He was. So the man's changing, so I'm not a rocker anymore, now he's something else. Absolute support for systematically resisting terrorism. Here's the third time I repeat: to pass laws, to allocate funds, etc. I don't know, this looks like a deaf phone story. I don't see what the problem is.
ParlaMint-BA_2010-07-14-0.u36201	Thank you. The next replica is the esteemed representative Azra Alajbegović.
ParlaMint-BA_2010-07-14-0.u36202	Well, I'd like to replicate Mr. Kuzmanović and say that it's really a little bit surprising that he said the last item of his last sentence, which is that the problem with terrorism is in one religion. Since I do not know which religion is identified by terrorism, I ask Mr Kuzmanović to explain to me: What faith is identified and incorporated into terrorism or what religion propagates terrorism? Of course, there are certain situations that we currently have on the general agenda in BiH, but I do ask him to tell the truth until the end, not to leave me in a dilemma. I accept that my IQ is extremely low and that I am unable to understand his sentences.
ParlaMint-BA_2010-07-14-0.u36203	Thank you. The next replica is the esteemed representative Salko Sokolović. 69
ParlaMint-BA_2010-07-14-0.u36204	Thank you, Mr. Chairman. Here I am also apologizing to my colleagues who have applied for the debate. I was thinking, but here we are in this one time period here, having a practical controversy with my club president. Whether it is intentional or unintentional, let those who flaunt conclude for themselves. I think it's intentional. Look, we've been replaced here, so there's a debate on the scene for these 20 minutes or half an hour, as far as we're concerned, a replacement of thesis. So this parliament has become a prosecutor, a judge, one accuses, another judge. And the bottom line is to see what's causing it, what's causing it, so we have the kind of consequences we have right now, when it comes to fighting terrorism. So we adopted this strategy here in January. Who is responsible, why is this strategy not being implemented? There's a man there, right, or some people? Which is why we haven't passed a series of laws that Mr. Izetbegović was talking about: weapons, transporting dangerous substances, etc.? Now I'm asking a political question. Is that someone deliberately obstructed to grow these 3,000 people here? So these are the reasons why we have these consequences today, and here it's just a story: eh, is this one or is this one. And without reason, so with the club president's explanation, you've now all directed your discussions towards him in such a way, and we're not looking for a solution why we have this situation in BiH today. Who's responsible? Is the police reform responsible, the way it is, so today we don't have the instruments in the hands of the minister, so he can't do any work? Who's in charge of implementing the Anti-crime Strategy? Are those the authorities down there, which one of them is responsible? Mr. Kuzmanović, he has found a condition. What did he do to keep that condition from happening? Because he lacks a number of laws that weren't passed here in parliamentary procedure. And today, the conclusion of this debate can only be that we move forward when it comes to these legal solutions, based on which this strategy will be implemented by the competent institutions to work under these laws and that those who want terrorism, regardless of what religion, nations, have come beyond the borders of the BiH state, etc. If we want to do something concrete today, then we need to talk this way. I would ask everyone in this direction to direct the discussion, so I took the line and apologized to my colleagues who might have said this through their discussion. Thank you, Chairman.
ParlaMint-BA_2010-07-14-0.u36205	Thank you. The next replica is the esteemed representative Željko Kuzmanović.
ParlaMint-BA_2010-07-14-0.u36206	Thank you, Mr. Chairman. Dear Professor Alajbegović, I have indeed referred to the Council of Ministers' Report, i.e. informing the Council of Ministers about the terrorist attack on the Police Administration in Bugojn with reference to this information, i.e. the proposal for measures aimed at 70 countering extremism, radicalism and terrorism, signed by the Director General of OSA. Almira Džuve in which he says, so I'll read what he writes. 'Any retogradal, rigid, exclusive and radical ideology, no matter what it was called and where it existed, can't be anything but a remethylatic and latent conflict.' And he says in the second paragraph: 'Selefism and according to its manifestation, according to the views of most of the serious Islamic authorities in the country and beyond, retrograde, rigid and radical movement in Islam and its followers are extreme, intrusive and exclusive except inter-Muslim and inter-Bostish divisions and possible conflicts, which is an apparent phenomenon on the ground. The consequences of their actions could continue to be the deepening of the gaps between religious and ethnic groups in BiH." I have only referred to what is said in this report, i.e. in the proposal for measures aimed at countering extremism, radicalism and terrorism. So I didn't say that, I was quoting what it says. Thank you.
ParlaMint-BA_2010-07-14-0.u36207	Thank you. Dear Representative Azra Alajbegović.
ParlaMint-BA_2010-07-14-0.u36208	Well, now I'm glad that Mr Kuzmanović tried in some way and successfully fixed what he said in his first attitude. You did say, you've now quoted the report, and before that, you've expressed an attitude that remains open whether it's your attitude or you're quoting something, you know. That absolutely made the wrong impression. Here I will now take my right, because I belong to those who very rarely replicate, also to quote whether, according to the newspapers, it says, that we all need to open our eyes because terrorism is related and to the appearance of fascist, neo-fascist and other organisations and other radical movements in BiH regarding religion and religion. Here's what I'm quoting now. This isn't about my attitude, it's about the attitude of a certain daily list. But when a man says that from the point of view of a parliamentary speaker, and that the problem of terrorism is a problem in religion, then you know that makes an impression. I attended the defense of a Ph.D. the other day, and I must tell you that I am very sorry that I didn't bring... from this doctorate in which the conclusion of a young man of cosmopolitan, his doctoral dissertation, was that he actually used the phenomenon of terrorism at the full capacity of all faith and religion. The matter of terrorism is a matter of personality and the matter of certain of his translated political commitment and the use of it. Well, well, I had a need to tell you. I'm sorry, thank you very much.
ParlaMint-BA_2010-07-14-0.u36209	Thank you. The next line has a respected representative, Ekrem Ajanović. 71
ParlaMint-BA_2010-07-14-0.u36210	I'll just do the replica now because I signed up for the discussion, so I'll discuss it later. The other day, I'm watching TV, and in Ireland, some people were killed by police officers because they marched, because somewhere in the 1460s, they won those with roses. And nobody calls it terrorism, but says conflict, or says conflict is on a religious basis, but says conflict groups. Now everything that appears and is related to Islam - that's theorism. I was in Warsaw when it happened that two skyscrapers in New York were torn down, and then chairing that conference that was very large, where there were 1,200 participants, wanted to interrupt the session because Islamic terrorism appeared. Normally, smart people, that's delayed because nobody knew at that point who committed terrorism or when he committed terrorism. So, take it... it's not people who have faith in Islam, and there are acts of terrorism. Take Španija, take Holandija, take as much as you want the state, so the terrorist is a terrorist by his conviction, not by his religious confession. And therefore, please classify and even that... The Council of Ministers is wrong. There's no Islamic terrorism. There's terrorism going on in a particular area and it's being executed by certain people... because Islam doesn't propagate terrorism.
ParlaMint-BA_2010-07-14-0.u36211	Thank you. The next line has a distinguished representative, Adem Huskić.
ParlaMint-BA_2010-07-14-0.u36212	Thank you, Mr. Chairman. I was a member of the Defence and Circumstance Commission, and I was in the first place able to give some qualification of what was in Bugojn, and I unequivocally said it was a terrorist act and I don't think there's anything controversial about it, in my opinion. And it is a terrorist act. But we are now in a position to, in my opinion, determine whether we are going to talk in principle or we are going to act politically. Here, if we're going to be political, then it's exactly what it says (where's Željko?) in the OSA report. But OSA has another file, it's not just one. There's a file on these terrorists with an Islamic omen. But there's also a file with a Chetnik sign. So I suggest we bring in, ask Džuvo, or OSA to give us information about it, and then we open up the pre-election story. I'm afraid we're all actually together here, I don't want to be smarter than the others, I'm afraid we're not even aware of what we're dealing with, and this isn't a question or a problem, nor is it a topic for daily politics. This is the topic we're afraid to be dealing with for a little longer. And I can't say what I think for how long and what we're going to have to do and what we're going to have to do. We're at this point, it seems to me, just a little bit stuck on the surface and we don't know what's underneath, and as we have solutions and we're accusing each other, and as Bošnjak, they're now in a position to be terrorists and Muslims like they're terrorists, so we're defending ourselves like you have your own brushes, and then we're fighting who's guilty here, who's less guilty. I think we should do the next one. Accept what this ministry has offered us, if we think that's enough. If it's not enough, if we think we need something better, we should do something better. If we think we should give greater authority to certain law enforcement agencies, I think we should do that. 72 And that, after all, I don't think it's a problem for the police. If it were, we'd have arrested 300, 500, 1,000 people and solved the problem. I think here's the last thing: the last police. This thing we do looks like you're taking a car that has a weak engine, no gas, no oil, no water, you're getting a red light bulb, then we're going to the master to change our lightbulb, what's up on the instrument board, so let's drive on. When I talk about a lack of political will, we won't agree here who has a lack of political will and we better not open that question. I'm afraid we're gonna have to change the Constitution for this. I think it's such a deep problem that the only question is when we're gonna mature, when we figure out what the problem is, how wide and deep the problem is, and I'm afraid we're gonna have a hard time rooting this out. Therefore, I suggest that we do not go to the field of politics, because the problem is for all of us in this country, that we do not bind it to Bosniaks and Muslims because we will not come to a solution, because that is not true. If it's not an accurate finding, assuming, we'll never get a good solution on the wrong assumption. What I'm saying is that we support the proposals made by this ministry that supported all these law enforcement agencies, if we think it's a good thing. If anyone has even better conclusions, let's suggest that we consider them, adopt them and go into surgery. Because I'm afraid that in this way we don't understand things and show that we don't understand and that we won't solve them, and that's a good topic for a pre-election campaign and that's not a question for those things. We're all in trouble right now. Look, the other day in Zvornik, there was a man called Robija, (i.e. that name says it's a person who's not normal) climbed the mosque and put a Serbian flag on the munar, I don't know which one, it says, Orthodox, and then people came down, got together, applauded, and it was such an event interesting to the public. I'm afraid that, say, one of these bearded diletters climbed up to church somewhere and brought some green flag, I think he'd be declared a terrorist. I mean, we need to be really sensitive to this, be honest and try to come up with solutions that I think are well contained in the Security Ministry proposal and I agree that they are not complete. Before adopting these measures, I think we should do a fat analysis of the failures in the work of the police, security agencies, etc. Because I'm sure they're not... Thank you.
ParlaMint-BA_2010-07-14-0.u36213	Which is a lot, it's a lot. Lazar Prodanović.
ParlaMint-BA_2010-07-14-0.u36214	Chairman, it is uncomfortable to influence in frequent replicas, because we are in fact making one mistake in this House. It's one attempt to escape from the reality that we're facing, and at the same time we're calculating differently and, in order to go out with any proposal, we don't trust each other. I must say that what Honorable colleague Adem Huskić stated, so I am very concerned about the situation that happened in Bugojn. We don't need to run from such a reality. It is a serious warning to everyone in BiH. Also, I am genuinely concerned when someone defiles a religious object that does not belong to my religious background and I am much more concerned that there is someone who is, here we are going to say, insane or somehow and gives support to it, creating a manifestation out of it. I'm also in favour of detecting any terrorist act. I am deeply convinced that the BiH Ministry of Security and Intelligence are seriously considering this 73 situation. And I honestly have to say that, now that we're talking, we have a very serious analysis of the Security Intelligence Agency in BiH that's determined according to this. It's a serious question that we, if we want to work honestly, must be determined. We are legislators and we should do everything possible to ensure that the legislative framework is absolutely fulfilled to disable any terrorist act, anywhere on BiH territory, according to anyone. So that's this part. The second issue is the operation of these security or police forces that need to be clearly identified. It cannot be repressive because of the verbal attitude, but all legal powers should be used because of the work done. The second issue is the responsibility of Bosnian Herzegovic intellectuals, politicians and the public towards this issue. I'm afraid we hide our heads in the sand feeling frustration. I have no problem saying I condemn any terrorist act, anyone called a Srbin, Orthodox, and anyone. And I'm very proud when the police responded very sharply to members of some organizations who wanted to show up in Bratunco the day before yesterday, I'm very proud. These are neither Srbin nor people, nor they want good nor BiH, above all they do not want well for the Srbin in BiH. I'll get Vratić to the Selaphian movement problem. I think we seriously need to think about what's going on in BiH. I will not speak at all of the figures, but it is a very important stance of the Islamic religious community, as the most influential religious community in BiH, the largest constituent people in BiH. Who is this who has been involved in the financing of those who are not the characteristics of Islam in BiH since its beginning? That's one problem. Does the one who finance it have no impact on the financing of any of the religious communities or any of the centers of power? How can we make this impossible, and how can we distance ourselves? And secondly, the tragic and painful question, what happened is that those who possibly introduce radicalism in any religious community in BiH have more influence than the official institutions that will deal with the issues of standards, I will conclude, I apologize to the chairman,
ParlaMint-BA_2010-07-14-0.u36215	Slavko begged us to give you another minute. Lazar
ParlaMint-BA_2010-07-14-0.u36216	I won't, I won't, I'm sorry. So, is it possible for these organisations outside BiH or BiH, in any way, to assume the responsibility of BiH's official institutions to recruit relatively uneducated people who can potentially create these dangers. And yet again, I am against the fact that this movement in this sense is therefore qualified to further radicalise the situation in BiH. So, to act I am a legislative framework, a repressive force towards those who deserve it, I mean in accordance with the law, but the key is the relationship between the top authorities of religious communities in BiH, intellectuals and public workers that we cannot say that now is the problem. Let me just say, you know, you're the problem. What are you? Let's try to solve this problem together in order to relax the situation and prevent possible catastrophic... Thank you.
ParlaMint-BA_2010-07-14-0.u36217	You're lying, which is a lot, it's a lot. 74
ParlaMint-BA_2010-07-14-0.u36218	I'm sorry.
ParlaMint-BA_2010-07-14-0.u36219	Here you go, Mr. Okolić.
ParlaMint-BA_2010-07-14-0.u36220	Thank you, Mr. Chairman. I'm not talking to you, but you're presidening right now, because you haven't presided over all of you so far, that you should prevent the abuse of replicas under the cover of discussion. I didn't say that to Mr. Laza or anyone else individually, but it used to be and so we do so that we could come to the turn of this discussion real. Thank you.
ParlaMint-BA_2010-07-14-0.u36221	It's up to us. Slavko Jovičić.
ParlaMint-BA_2010-07-14-0.u36222	Thank you, Mr. Chairman. Well, we've got the wrong replica keys here, this isn't a replica, it's a question. Who humiliated this house so there's no prosecutor, so there's no CEO of the SIPA, so there's no director of the OSA, who humiliated us here today? And now the whole story will just come down to us MPs and everyone, I'll argue, we all get along great, at least we're friendly, I've never seen a fight and thank Bog it's not like that. And in the end there will be a conclusion: there was a meeting between the Srbin and the Bošnjak; I apologize, and the Hrvat have not yet reported. Are they? _________(?) [[no microphone turned on]] I'm sorry, okay. It doesn't matter, but here, come on, three, it's easier on three. Did I get a conflict from some of them? We didn't produce. But what are we going to conclude at the end of the debate? Nothing. There's no left there that we should always sit and say -- people, the answer is that we should have done it. Let me ask them, I said at the beginning. And I resent my colleagues, the replica of Nainć, the replica, I don't know who else mentioned it. Well, I told them where the D.A. is, where he is, so I guess Momo's authority is bigger, so they give them a little more opportunities than SNSD, so don't give them the Slavuj. Are you listening to what I'm saying? Where are these people to ask them, so let them criticize me for me getting involved in their work. I want to get involved in things and ask them here. And mostly, Mr. Chairman, this isn't at your address, no speech. I'm asking who humiliated us here today. To discuss myself, it doesn't matter who I list, don't think personally, that I'm discussing with my colleague Huskić, counterpart Nanić, colleague Sokolović, with that colleague, with this, we discuss it all the time, every session. I want the left ones out there I'll never ask them what it is, people, what you're doing. You had information, what did you do? Let me ask them, who's responsible for this? Now, that's not a replica, that's a question that this Parliament really has today, as much as you can see there on the display, and I forgot to say at the beginning -- thank you for doing this to us now on the left-hand side, so I don't have to look at it all the time, it's a little bit closer to me, so I have a better view. Now, in this review, I'd like to see the names of those up there who were supposed to be giving answers to what I'm asking them and my colleagues, not to see my colleagues upstairs, which is why I'm going to go out there right now and they're going to say I'm listening. I want to listen to my colleagues but they know what I'm gonna say, I know what they're gonna do. So, this is not a conflict, I repeat, and must not bring anyone into the national, that the reckoning is not given by the Bog of Srbin against the Bošnjak or the Hrvat or that we... argue. This is in the interest of all of us, this is our country. In Bugojn that day he could have been a Srbin visiting, he could have been a visiting Hrvat, at that police station could have happened, he could have been in another city, but I'm not going anywhere with this. I do not want Srbin in RS to fear whether a Bošnjak will happen. I will not fear my Srbin. When I say mine, with full right, who will come here safely to Sarajevo to market, whether, listen, fool, you didn't kill your grandmother when he was a fool. _________(?) [[no microphone turned on]]
ParlaMint-BA_2010-07-14-0.u36225	Slavko, almost time.
ParlaMint-BA_2010-07-14-0.u36226	Excuse me, sentence, one more question.
ParlaMint-BA_2010-07-14-0.u36227	Time's up. Mr. Lagumdžija, please.
ParlaMint-BA_2010-07-14-0.u36228	Why didn't they accept 40 years of punishment for asking them to change?
ParlaMint-BA_2010-07-14-0.u36229	Slavko, sit down! Mr. Lagumdžija, discussion. _________(?) [[no microphone turned on]] I'm moving Bešlagić.
ParlaMint-BA_2010-07-14-0.u36231	Dear Chairman, dear colleagues and colleagues, I... I wanted to discuss. Since you've discussed everything, I'll be very brief. Terrorism is terrorism – from Leotar, from Kopa, from Vukelić, from Fis Vitez, from 120 dead returnees, from terrorism in Bugojn, it is 76 all terrorism and I am discussing terrorism, I am not even discussing Musliman, Srbin, Hrvat. Why isn't there any of these... that we're calling here today? Because we've established a switch on this committee, the conclusion is that we're going to do, let's say, this committee's proposal for a session to be held on 29, 30, because yesterday they couldn't have adopted the proposals for measures that experts had given. ... I'm saying what it is, which in other words means that maybe if they were invited, if this commission had reached conclusions, they'd be sitting here today answering. The greatest success of this commission that the switcher was in session was that everyone who was invited had come. For the first time on this committee, everyone who's been invited has come and gone. And everyone was talking, talking about the events we called for, the terrorism that took place in Bugojn. I must say, at the session that was before that, we received a report that was classified by the OSA. When we concluded that we couldn't discuss this report, because he was delivered to the chairman of the Commission who wasn't present, then it was agreed that at yesterday's session, meaning, again, all those who were invited, and they came, and then came a new OSA report that was far stronger and stronger, which you read here today, but who didn't say that the Islamic community is terrorist, but simply believes that the Islamic community should be announced about what happened to us in Bugojn, about the selfies. I'm talking about the next one. The commission sat down and found that it was necessary to listen to the professional people sitting there, from the directors of the agencies... to the BiH chief prosecutor and who said we need a law on the ban on terrorism. Do we have him? We don't. Is there anything else we should discuss? The act on terrorism must be found in this parliament and this parliament must pass a law on the ban on terrorism and some define what terrorism is. Is endangering the lives of every man terrorism? Yes, for me, it may not be legal, but let the lawyers define it and we get such a law, not from whether it is Serbian, Croatian, Bosniak, because here, when you take everyone who has died in BiH so far, BiH citizens have been killed, BiH citizens have been killed. And what's very important, we got two reports today, there's another third report, it's one of those 45 agencies that went to the UN. Basically, it seems to me that a thread has been struck in this OSA analysis, that terrorism is in fact what happened to us in this case, I'm saying, it's about selafi, that this is a case in which it shows how much BiH is able to provide citizens with work, not able to provide people with life. Evil is done by individuals, evil is done by people who receive funds and who finance to move on to the belief I give, endangering and humiliating me as selo Bešlagić as Muslims. I admit it, I disagree deeply, but it should concern us. What if this parliament, what if the entity's parliaments, cantons are going to take BiH's economy up, up, up, up, up, and get all those fundamental rights, that's the right to work, the right to security, the right to live, the right to work. So I think that one of the conclusions that will be proposed by this committee that here will meet again on this matter is that the measures proposed by experts, professional people, and to make an analysis of all, I would say, the problems involved in a group of crimes, the law on terrorism. I think that would be the strongest contribution. One more thing that's very important, the number 3000 hasn't been invented by any of the parliamentarians here, the number of 3,000 people said on that commission, there's documentation on those 3,000 people. And you know what else is said? It is no longer terrorism that has come from outside than people from BiH, but who are receiving financial, uncontrollable financial support coming from the side. How to prevent that part? 77 And since we have received another report from the Ministry of Security, which is this report of these 24 or I do not know how many of these terrorist organisations, this report says, because I asked whether this financial support can be prevented, it says that there are restrictive measures, a law on the application of certain provisional measures has been laid down to effectively implement the mandate of the International Criminal Tribunal for the former Yugoslavia and other international restrictive measures. Please apply this law, bring the law first on preventing this terrorism and pass this temporary law on the prevention of financial, i.e. cutting these financial flows and empower those institutions. It's a shame if these directors of the agency say these in Maoci are better equipped than those in the agencies. That's the problem. _________(?) [[no microphone turned on]] So I say what they say. So, the point of the problem isn't just that they're gone, and here they told us that... Therefore, I would ask that only these relations and in these relations the law on terrorism be passed and that restrictive measures be applied to prevent, I would say, the illegal flow of money in BiH for, come on, financing terrorism. Not just one, but the terrorism in BiH that we have in the entire state of Bosnia and Herzegovina. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-BA_2010-07-14-0.u36233	Thank you. Replica. Dear Representative Mirko Okolić.
ParlaMint-BA_2010-07-14-0.u36234	No, it's not a replica and don't count it on me, please, it's a technical intervention. I just got off the phone, and here I am, and it's back on, and look, at the parliamentary intervention, and I'm off the list, and I'm not here again, because when I get back, I'm behind Mr. Zlatko Lagumdžija and I'm in front of Sadik Bahtić, I can confirm. I don't know what the technique was wrong about, every time I report for some intervention, it takes me off the list. So please appreciate that.
ParlaMint-BA_2010-07-14-0.u36235	Here, until this is settled, Mr. Lozančić.
ParlaMint-BA_2010-07-14-0.u36236	Ladies and gentlemen of the Parliament, Mr. Minister, the distinguished guests, I must say that today we have two points of the agenda that seem to have no similarities, but I think they are very connected. Our discussions, usually knowingly or unconsciously, run away from the main topic. I think the minister in his introduction made one relationship, conditional on one relationship, so I'll start with that relationship. 78 We have the 'Light' action that has been initiated here in Parliament and through so far has come forward, and here in Parliament, and in the public, from the various political officials of this country, it seems to me, it has already been evaluated 'as the police have been too poor in this action and as they have unrealizedly exploited the capacities available', concluded a quote. So that's how I realized all these reactions. As far as other information is concerned, as Parliament was already in last session when we received this oral information from the Deputy Minister, we expressed our political position on this event in Bugojn. And we called him both terrorist, and assault, and condemned him, and asked all the institutions, or the Council of Ministers, to provide us with complete information. And then when we came to that conclusion, at least my intention or expectation was that through the information we would get a brief review of the situation, but above all, a proposal for possible, necessary, urgent, short-term, medium-term and long-term measures which we as Parliament, as representatives, can make as our contribution to the fight against terrorism and in the fight against all forms of crime. I'm not sure we'll get the desired results through today's debate. If we consciously or unconsciously assess any operational police action politically in a way that we say 'a lot of cops are involved or a little police are involved', it is far from allowing a positive environment for law enforcement agencies to fight it. And in any of the following situations, they will first consider whether they will get these political packages, whether they are too many or too few in action, not the effects of the action itself, not the need to implement the law and act exclusively in accordance with the law. In his statement, the minister said he was a security minister, but he is no exception, as the Minister of Interior in the Federation government, the minister of internal affairs in the RS government, the interior ministers in the canton governments -- do not have operational powers. They are forbidden to interfere with the operational activities of the police, or law enforcement agencies. Whether it's good or not, it's a matter of assessment and theirs, and then ours, and then it would be further worked out through any changes, amendments to legislation that we could possibly decide to put back, let's say, that system backwards, and let's say we're not satisfied with how it works now, because it's not good that ministers don't have jurisdiction over the operational actions of agencies that are under their jurisdiction. The ministers are logistics, their duty is to secure the necessary resources, resources at the request of those agencies, and that is where their authority ends. If that is the case, if we want to accept that this is the case, if we want to ensure the independence of those agencies, then we really do not have the right to enter operational jurisdiction. We do not have the right to enter judgments or to assess whether 5 or 155 officers were needed in any action. It's out of our jurisdiction, no matter how many times we'd be... if we could just take a look at those files and see what's going on out there. However, it simply does not comply with the law, and the laws apply to us. So they're not only worth it to police officers, they're worth it to us, and we don't have the right to ask for anything that's out of the law. Unlike them, we have the right to change the law, but until we change it, we must respect it as they do. In one such state when we all like to get involved where we shouldn't get involved, and by the way, we don't like to get involved where we should get involved, then we have a condition that's what it is. And unfortunately, we are still far from starting to think truly to the extreme objectively. There's always a need to relativize something or to hyperbolize something. In fact, it's not a service to anyone, especially not a service to everyone, to all citizens, not a service to this country. No matter how many of us try to reduce the dangers of any terrorist act, no matter who it comes from, it doesn't do good to itself, it doesn't do good to its family, to its narrow and wider community, then to the entire state, or to any of its citizens. As much as anyone who tried to increase the risk 79, especially by transferring it to the field one or one, is also not a good effect, will not create an ambience. In one of these documents, no matter now, one of these agencies that might be good for us as a prelude to serious debate, it means, I quote, 'We consider that the mention of cases together with the latest case represents the product of a phenomenon that is beyond us', and this is the essence, 'which exceeds formal legal engagement, resources and possibilities only of police and intelligence agencies. We appreciate that it is a phenomenon that requires a more serious and organised engagement of a wider social community, i.e. different organisations, bodies and institutions." It's the only way in which a serious state struggles with serious problems, selecting, reducing, transferring, marking some of the colors that we're otherwise prone to, even under the pretext, there were more difficult things. We must finally try to get out of this story, out of this vicious circle in which we will always have a problem relativating some other previous or current problem. It can't be a comfort to us that there is, I don't know, five hundred or five, so here we are, now we're going to bid which is five. The one who's qualified as a terrorist is the person who committed a terrorist act. In legal practice, in theory there is a definition of what terrorism is. And that's not the subject that we politicians should be dealing with at all. So she's clearly given what's considered a terrorist act, and I'm not going to talk about it. Our role, mine, is to see all of us ensure that this wider community properly responds that such events do not occur. Or, if they must already be, because of the various weaknesses and inability and adequate response, etc., to be reduced to the least possible measure. There were some speeches in that direction today. I am not happy, perhaps these measures that our law enforcement agencies have proposed and which have been discussed on our parliamentary committee, I am not pleased that they have not received support. Maybe they're not perfect, but nobody suggested better. But if these aren't good enough, we won't, and without proposing new ones, it's a bad alibi. It's an alibi, but it's basically a non-action. Some say the problem is in poor law enforcement, I agree with them, others say the problem is the lack of additional laws, and I agree with them. And these two facts are not the opposite of each other. So we have a reality in which we have truly inadequate law enforcement, but also a lack of another additional legislative framework that would strengthen the capacity of our anti-terrorism agencies, here we are now talking about terrorism, but also all other forms of crime. We have today established a parliamentary committee on the Anti-Corruption Agency. Unfortunately, we have a lot to fight against, we're a passionate society, there's a lot of relapses in that time, there's a lot of weapons and military equipment unsupervised, there's a lot of people who don't know, so it just happens to be found, etc. There's a lot of different shipments of dangerous explosive substances that aren't in co-ordinated, so to speak, surveillance, traffic. It's a question of the Law on the Transport of Dangerous Matters and it has something to do with these issues, so. There's a lot of incoherence between our law enforcement agencies, and it has something to do with this problem. Not just with this, it means all security issues. There's a lot of unsupervised law enforcement agencies, and it's got something to do with us. There's a lot of human resources inadequately unfulfilled agencies, and it has to do with us. Now, there we can give support to both the Minister and this ministry and our resources through those instruments that we have to contribute and say strongly that there is no terrorism, no faith, no nation. And bringing down any terrorist criminal act to that alone is blurry. So it's to escape from reality, to escape from need and responsibility to engage in serious measures to combat this dangerous evil that is called in the broadest sense of crime. 80 I'm sorry that we don't have the possibility that, on a proposal from the expert bodies, we don't have any better ones, so we have law enforcement bodies that we have, and again I say these measures that they've proposed are better than any measures. That's why I'm keeping this topic open, not to be politically bickering, and I don't think anybody benefits from it, and I don't think anyone on this issue can politically or will profit -- whoever thinks they will, they won't. So, to try to get to the quality program of the measures that we're going to give our contribution, give a tool in the hands of people who deal with this job and release them from all possible pressures, all possible manipulations of what they're doing, and insist exclusively, exclusively, that everything they're doing is in accordance with the applicable laws. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-BA_2010-07-14-0.u36237	Vesna Šain.
ParlaMint-BA_2010-07-14-0.u36238	The Honorable Chairman, ladies and gentlemen, the magnificent and spectacular action "Light" in Upper Maoca with the participation of 597 police officers has not produced results. The main question that is being asked is why did they even remain silent about the existence of the Wahhabi movement when we know that for 15 years there was a state in the country, when we know that the Wahhabi movement is extreme Islam based on terrorist ideas? I'm surprised there's no reaction from the Islamic religious community to which the Wahhabi movement poses a serious threat. It is a parallel religious community that will swallow up the Islamic religious community. More questions are raised here: Why are such actions being organised that do not produce results and when something is organised, when something happens, like now in Bugojn, in Sarajevo? And when an investigation is done and something is done, it's local character, it doesn't get into the essence of the problem. We never talk about the Wahhabi movement, about terrorism, we talk about it in part. Other problems arise: Why are BiH authorities silent about this problem and how long will we fear terrorist attacks in this country? The answer is clear: Until then, in the institutions of government, while in the intelligence and security services there are people who were members of the AIDS, Muslim intelligence services, who brought in the war in BiH mujahedin who fought for them, called them holy warriors, provided papers, asked for jobs, later provided citizenship. So, people sitting in state institutions, who are still in power in BiH today, are covering up those crimes then and covering up now. It's a question of questions. Until the problem is solved, we will not solve the problem of terrorism. Thank you.
ParlaMint-BA_2010-07-14-0.u36239	Thank you. The next is distinguished representative Denis Bećirović.
ParlaMint-BA_2010-07-14-0.u36240	It should first be noted that BiH's road to the EU has been stopped and blocked in these four years. Reforms have been halted and today we hear from the ruling parties that 81 are talking about the consequences of both terrorism and other forms of extremism. I think we should talk about the causes if we want to stop at the end of extremism, terrorism and other negatives we have to eliminate the causes of such a situation. And everyone in this parliament and outside this country knows that the economic situation in BiH has deteriorated for these four years. The political climate in this country has deteriorated for these four years. Reform processes have been stopped, the victims of war, war crimes and genocide are being humiliated and insulted in this country. The citizens were slightly brought into a position of depression, revolt and dissatisfaction, and the revolving and depressed people turn to negativity. All of this was undoubtedly reflected in the state of security in this country and it was never worse perhaps in this decade than it is now. This government either didn't know or didn't want or did something else to ensure the safety of BiH citizens. And responsibility for this condition is above all on those who exercise power in this country. It was really absurd today to listen to some MPs, precisely from ruling parties, who criticise the situation as if they were in opposition, not the most responsible for this situation in the country. Terrorists, extremists and fascists, they have neither faith nor nation, and they are a danger to every man, every faith, every nation. They are the only ones that can be dealt with by those authorities who are determined, uncompromisingly and organisedly going into conflict with such negativity. This power did not go into account with such negativity in such a way. According to counterpart Bakir Izetbegović today, it could be concluded that this terrorist attack in Bugojn is like an isolated case. Unfortunately, it's not an isolated case, it's a dramatic deterioration of the situation when it comes to security in this country. We from the SDP were when the debate was a few months ago about the state of security talking about it, but no one was paying attention to what we were saying. And the situation is such that the mugging in general in this country has increased significantly compared to last year by 30.88% for the whole of BiH, so both entities. There has been an increase in economic crime throughout BiH. Crimes against legal property benefits have been significantly increased. Even knowledge has been collected that corruption and crime are present even with those agencies that need to fight such things. The illegal trade in high-traffic goods, human trafficking has been increased. The state of public order and peace is generally more unfavourable, the number of people who were injured is on the rise, close to three thousand people in the country; 45 police officers were injured in 2009 alone, attacks on police not being stopped in 2009 and now they are escalating in 2010, so we have a situation where police officers are injured in attacks on police stations. And there is a question that needs to be asked publicly here in Parliament and someone answers that question: Why are criminals in offensive in this country? Why are extremists of various colors offensives in this country? Why are the security organs in the defensive? Well, because it's the result of this government. Who will be responsible for this radicalisation of the situation in BiH why have we come to the situation that extremists are allowed to attack the BiH state, because as soon as they attack police authorities and stations, they attack the BiH state? From whom did all these powerful extremists see themselves being attacked by the BiH state, whom do they look up to? The responsibility and political summits in this country that are responsible for the escalation of extremism should not be ignored here at all. If you've been saying for months and years in this country that you don't like the state you live in, if you publicly say that you're going to knock out journalists in the media, if you deny all possible war crimes, etc., then how do you think you're going to raise young generations in this country? The Ministry of Security's information in March 2010, not only that we have received these days, is listed among other things for this operation "Lightness" in Maoca, that it has been implemented because of the threat of using force against the constitutional order of BiH and its 82 territorial integrity. I ask the question to those who exercise power in this country: Where is one precise, comprehensive list of all those terrorists, extremists, fascists who threaten the constitutional order of BiH? And are we going to be able to fight them with tweezers, by pulling one out, by not pulling the other out, etc., or in principle and responsibly and responsibly against all those who threaten the constitutional order of BiH? We received this proposal today. These measures are not nearly necessary measures for this country, these are not adequate measures. It is said in these measures under number 1 to start carrying out continuous activities in order to deter, etc. You have to say what continuous activity. Well, all witnesses are that in the last three years of the SDP Club, we have three times proposed different amendments and additions to this country's Criminal Law and all these proposals have been rejected. We proposed a bill on banning fascist organizations, you know how it went. We were saying that such police reform would not benefit BiH, no one seems to have taken it seriously either. These measures should clearly and precisely specify what is the role of which in the fight against terrorism and extremism in this country. It is here to specify exactly what is the task of the BiH Prosecutor's Office, what is the task of the police, what is the task of the media, what is the task of religious communities, not one but all religious communities. Don't start with tweezers now, there's a sea of examples where we'll see what's going on, etc. We still need to talk about how some religious people were raising awareness of those who were killing children from Srebrenica before they were killed, as we saw in a number of videos, etc. We don't need to get into these things and into these details, but we need to focus on concrete measures, we need to say what is the specific responsibility and role of politicians. Look out, the young generations in this country, and they look up to those public figures. If you in public programs are constantly sowing radicalism, extremism, if you are showing an elementary political negativity, etc., how do you feel about these people who are just being educated and who are just creating a picture of BiH and the world? I think we should adopt today and, in my opinion, it is possible to adopt two conclusions: 1. As Parliament, we ask the BiH Council of Ministers for a package of comprehensive measures aimed at countering extremism, radicalism, terrorism and fascism. 2. To call an extraordinary session of Parliament within 15 days or possibly at the one planned for the end of July of the month, at which we would discuss this item of the agenda, with much more concrete, more comprehensive and clearer measures in the fight against such negativity.
ParlaMint-BA_2010-07-14-0.u36241	Thank you. The next is the esteemed representative of Zlatko Lagumdžija.
ParlaMint-BA_2010-07-14-0.u36242	I thank you, Mr. Chairman. Unfortunately, here, today we have two information pooled together, I say, unfortunately, that we have finished this first in time, I believe that we would be more focused on the second, and especially if we had worked first before there was an event that was a cause for other information, as it was logical, then probably today would have been a little more focused and probably with more arguments we could talk about. On the other hand, if we had God's third information on the planal with a still unidentified event that resulted in a letter from some of our institutions, which is still 83 unclear, which and what was sent to the UN in that letter, where some terrorist organisations are mentioned: if we had done this, it would have been likely that everything today would have been a little simpler. I have to say that this information that I've received, updated by who knows which time, first one by one, I'm going to say something about one and the other, to then draw some common conclusions because it's a little hard to draw common conclusions from these two cases and hold a discussion without it being scattered. In the final updated information, last updated regarding Light, we were able to realize that, to remind you, it happened almost six months ago. We then found out from the media that it was an attack on constitutional order, a threat to territorial integrity, and you can think until then when there is organized crime causing people's, racial, religious hatred, discord and impatience to us less concerned about what qualifications some others were. Spectacularly there was one action where we now saw that 18 guns were captured, 21 knives, even 70 cell phones captured, one camera was captured, 36,000 euros. This is not trapped in a skyscraper here in Dolac Malta or somewhere in a bigger city, but trapped in a village that was expected to be much more spectacular after all. It has even been established that no one has resisted, etc., etc. So we figured out what's the basic problem. If all of this was true that it was an attack on constitutional order and a threat to territorial integrity, then the question is why six months after that we don't have a thing brought to an end before the court in any way. If this was done as a demonstration exercise or as an election exercise for some police functions, they would understand, they wouldn't justify it, but they would understand. I must admit, I thank the Minister for being here and thanking the Minister for practically taking on a responsibility that doesn't belong to him. We here have the conclusion of this home, is it, the Council of Ministers should give us information, we only have a minister here. I was encouraged when Minister Nović sat there, because he is, a man understands it, so if anything he could help us, but here he has lost his patience, probably because he is a much greater expert on these things than practically we who talk amateurly about it here, having in mind what kind of man has experience. You have also seen that Minister Nović is able to coordinate health care and health and education ministers, and it is commendable, and man is not from that portfolio. And we have a problem that the Minister of Security is actually unable to coordinate what is systemic, which is political, which is personal to the people he should coordinate with. When you look at these letters, when you look at the letter here in this information about the Bugoin you received from the Federal Administration, the man here teaches you a lesson as if you were his subordinate. _________(?) [[microphone is not enabled]] So we see that we have a few problems here. And now I'm gonna try to get a few things out of this together. I strongly support this information of yours and the measures you've given here, to a large extent. But I'm afraid I don't support and I can't support some of the important things here that have been given and I'd be... so I think that this information of yours should be taken into account and this a little bit more seriously about this... You see what two things are offered here. One that is offered here is practically to introduce a law, to prohibit weapons possession. It's practically said; if we forbid people to have guns, then the thing would be much simpler. In no country in the world where weapons are banned, weapons are less used because of this. It's not that. And in this country, it's hard to talk about weapons bans and that would bring something. What concerns me a little bit here, I read from the media, and I know that the people who are, is that, in some closed sessions, I'm saying what happened at closed sessions because it was written in the media, otherwise I wouldn't say what was written in closed seats, but I'm just going to say what was said in closed sessions because it was in the media. And what was in the closed sessions and it wasn't in the media, I'm not gonna talk. But what was in closed sessions and whether it was in the media, here's Mirko. He knows it very well. The director of the intelligence agency said that they informed the police department about the people who then planted the bombs, simply said that these people were registered, registered and seen as dangerous. The question now arises: How did the Intelligence Agency inform these people, the competent services, and not do anything preventive? Now, look, as a solution to that, we're offering what, so the Intelligence Agency can have the authority not to inform anyone or to arrest her. I'm sorry, there's some things that got a little messed up. You cannot, if one institution has not done its job for which it is in charge, give the other institution its powers and its powers. Because then why do we need the intelligence and the police separately, why don't we put it together so that we don't put the prosecution together with this? Then why doesn't the court come together? Then why doesn't all this come together? There's this, some effective countries have it put together. But they are not democratic, and in the end it is clear that they are not effective. Don't get me wrong, I first think OSA did a good job, and some other services didn't do well, from what I've seen, from this information I've seen. OSA did her job well. Some other police institutions haven't done it properly and have done it properly, and now these other police institutions and their leaders are giving us political lectures in the paper. I'm afraid there's been a lot of confusion here. Someone mentioned at the beginning of the famous Zgonjanin. Well, Zgonjanin was under greater control, Minister, the Zgonian was under greater control, however ridiculous it may be, than some police leaders are now. This is where we created, we have a few problems. We have systemic problems, political problems and personal problems. You have a systemic problem that there are institutions that you're the minister of justice, the minister of justice, that you can't do anything about. And they keep yelling, let us work. When it comes to bleach, they say you don't support us, so wait a minute. Systemic errors exist, you need to detect system errors. That we created some centers that no one can control. They can't be controlled by the minister, they can't be controlled by Parliament, they don't cut down committees, they don't cut down parliaments, so what do you want? Then what do you want? What do you wonder? I'm not saying you're supposed to be setting up directors, but I'm saying you have to, that you should have the opportunity to replace them. If someone had been replaced here after Light, the question of whether Bugojno would have happened in this... and if someone had been replaced after Bugojna, the question is whether the next case would happen, unfortunately, don't Bog, is likely to happen anyway. So we have a problem with systemic nature. We have a problem with the system's nature. And it needs to be determined here, system problems, not systemic problems solved in a non-systemic way, in a palitative way. One doesn't do their job, give the other jurisdiction. So where did we find it, where did we do it? We have problems of a political nature. With all due respect, I don't need to tell you, so today, Parliamentarians in the ruling structure have spoken to the opposition authorities as if they were opposition to each other. That's not normal. It's a political problem. You were supposed to come out with one piece of information, the Council of Ministers has no information on this. Well, that's a political 85 problem. The fact that you're sitting here, Minister, is a political problem that is totally unacceptable. To give each other a lecture here from the ruling parties, that's a political problem. And in the end, there's a personal problem. This is where it all turned into, Minister dear, I'm not my mother, not the prosecution, not the police administration one, not the management of the other, not the SIPA, not the Intelligence Agency, not one minister, not another minister, not the Council of Ministers, not anyone. And finally, people come out who are completely out of control and give us political lectures from the media. It needs to be stopped. It needs to be stopped. They act here, here it turns out that there are police and various structures, police, prosecutors, that I don't go any further, they act so that no one can do anything to them. And nobody can do anything to them. Because you, gentlemen, are without political will scattered like a brother-in-law. That's the basic problem. The Maoča showed up and it's known she's in Maoca, or is it not known that the state has been attacked? You still don't know that. Was the state attacked in Maoca? We don't know that. So, Maoču is not known to have been attacked, but it is definitely known that the state did not strike back after Maoče. Either these people weren't brought to court for destroying the constitutional order or someone didn't answer for not doing his job. When it comes to Bugojno, the state was attacked, but it's definitely the state, definitely the state was attacked, definitely the state didn't strike back. And if it doesn't show very quickly that there's a willingness for the state to strike back, don't be surprised at the new events. To short the story, and thank you for this patience, you should have full support to do your job. Everyone should have the support to do their job, but they shouldn't allow other people who are now standing here, who aren't doing their job, who are giving a lecture to each other. I'm an MP in the opposition and I have the right to give a lecture to anyone who hasn't done his job. And it's my job to give a lecture on it. And if I were a minister or someone in this chain of responsibility, I would, let me, and until you've replaced someone here, this whole thing won't have absolutely, nor will this be happening to us. They say the tragedy repeats itself as a farce. I'm afraid the Light, that Maoča and Bugojno actually turned around, that the farce had repeated itself as a tragedy. That a farce here eventually turned into a tragedy and if we don't stop these tragedies, there could be serious crimes here. And if terrorists were terrorists, it's not a dispute. But as long as we're looking everywhere for terrorism, we're not going far away, I think it would be better if the state and every institution were doing their job, to pick up these idiots first, not medically, but other species, because the one who waved a flag inappropriately on a religious object, I don't know if it's a terrorist, but an idiot is safe. And it needs to be sanctioned that way. I'm afraid with this kind of approach, we won't if we don't have a willingness to show any systemic problems, ministers, no political problems, and, finally, to the personal ones, well, then we did all this for nothing. But, thank Bog, you won't be long.
ParlaMint-BA_2010-07-14-0.u36244	Thank you. The next is Honourable representative Sadik Bahtić.
ParlaMint-BA_2010-07-14-0.u36245	Thank you. 86
ParlaMint-BA_2010-07-14-0.u36246	I apologize, I apologize to the esteemed representative Bahtić; intervention, the esteemed representative Mirko Okolić is still now.
ParlaMint-BA_2010-07-14-0.u36247	I spent a lot of time insisting that certain things happen in Maoca that are not normal for one order and one state, and this has been shown recently before Maoč's action and in the newspapers, or in the media of any kind. Well, we had in the media such signs or statements that, say police vehicles were going to Maoc to patrol up a little bit, and then they were stopped, and I quote it almost, so their tires were pierced and their mud was still covered with windscreens and other glass on the vehicle, and no one else, etc., etc. And then, of course, after all these interventions and statements, it had to be that someone gave the order to act "Light." I've heard here that someone has made that order question whether or not she should have. I have nothing to say against that order because I think she really should have been betrayed and that's a good thing that's done. I wouldn't get involved in it at all like someone said how many people were hired there or whether it took so long or not, it doesn't interest me at all. I'm just interested in someone telling me if there were any results behind this action or not? I don't want to talk about the technical part of that action, I don't want to hear those stories about how Border... worked in co-operation with this, never committed, how this police, etc., etc. Does that mean there was a result or not? I expected it to be said here and that's where we made the mistake, and that's where we did the right thing. This information says that the action was such that it could not achieve a full surprise, which was the goal of the action. That's that big statement in that information, which means that action, in the folk dictionary, has been broken. Which is why it's happened now, whether it's because of the extensive action of the members of the MUP and the others or because of something else, it mostly happened, but it says so. Furthermore, as the Joint Commission for Oversight over the work of the Intelligence and Security Agency, we have initiated one item of the agenda, which is about to be called the Information Intelligence and Security Agency for the current security situation in BiH, and it is proposed that this be presented by the Intelligence and Security Agency in front of both homes. Thanks to you in the College, it's been done on paper. And you accepted that proposal and gave written consent to schedule a session of both homes and to find OSA information in front of the House. And it was really on your side okay, and with certain consultations, that was it. But it happens afterwards that the Council of Ministers stops this information under the pretext that OSA cannot provide information without the Council of Ministers, and we, of course, asked as a commission to bring the Intelligence and Security Agency and the Council of Ministers into line with what the obavještajno and Security Agency will bring here to us parliamentarians, but this has never happened. The initiative came on the basis of conclusions from many of these seminars, discussions and commissions and conclusions that in this section something is going on and we're going to see it in the end. I am now asking a question here to Mr. Minister who is present, and on a question or a finding, it seems to me, Mr. Izetbegović, that it may not be a terrorist act, that it was an individual who was working there because of something etc., etc., that he tells us later whether he can tell us whether he can or will be able to say that it is not a form of terrorist action. I'll use that information later. I'd like him to say that and I'd like to, I'd be happy to say that it's not a form of terrorist 87 action and that's how it is. But I'm not sure that's how it's gonna be, and that's why I'm afraid it won't be, because the definition of terrorism doesn't know exactly, but it's roughly from case to case, it's easy to adapt, but each of these definitions would say it's one form of terrorism. It happens after the "Lightness" action, where I and many others have also said that the action "Lightness" is the fruit of the service of security and intelligence services in BiH, but that there is also a chance of tactics from those against whom the action was carried out. In fact, I think that in Gornji Maoca it worked deliberately to attract attention so that we would be satisfied with the action 'Light' and thought that everything in BiH from that aspect is happening – it is happening in Maoca. In fact, it's not like that, they're never naive, and that's how they act, and it happened to be true, and it's right somewhere in central Bosnia that it's known as the head. Furthermore, we can say that the federal media did not pay very good attention to the postperiod of Bugojne in the sense that the importance of this and the seriousness is being given. And maybe they're not all the media in BiH, and these are federal ones, they sure as hell aren't. Furthermore, we come to the data here that certain persons are stopped, controlled, that they do not have ID documents, that they do not have driver's licenses when driving cars and that they are reportedly saying they do not recognise the BiH Court and that this is where it ends. Well, I can't figure out how those faces haven't been processed. What law lacks these faces to be processed? Here, I'm going to ask all of us, here, one of us should be at some expensive sports, cultural, or it doesn't matter to anyone, let some kind of crowd be out there and let them routinely control us that we don't have documents, I'm claiming and my head, and all of us, that they'd be taken to the first police station immediately, and that a direct identity with our home police station from where we are, where we'd have to determine identity, and nothing here. Well, it looks like they're familiar with cops and others and they say, "What do you control me, so you know who I am, etc. And now the police are asking us parliamentarians, we have such a phenomenon, ow! Well, they're about to say, they're still giving us a slap when we want to go to Upper Maoc, they're getting us a car, and they're ordering us not to call the bosses, one three hours later until they're gone. That's the message from those organs. "Here are the individuals," masterly trying to pass on the thesis and responsibility of all of this. And that's what's called politics and that's, say, Mr. Remzi Kadrić tried to masterly try to distract it from it, master's right. Furthermore, we have information that the members of this movement that we are talking about are, it's extreme, radical, etc., a Wahhabi movement that has some other incentives in its action, mostly composed of a very small percentage of the celestial population, i.e. people from African countries, and a high percentage of people or persons from BiH. And that percentage ranged from 98% for persons from BiH to 97% from 2-3% of others. And somebody said it, well, it's good, like there's not many of them. Well, it's a danger in that right now. I wish there were more of them in all of this and there were fewer of ours. That's the danger. They have achieved their goal. They did not come to BiH to make houses and villas and to bring people from African countries and to do something about it because they can do it there. They came here to recruit new personnel for their needs, which we have to take care of, and those who are Bosnian-Herzegovian citizens, who are not recognizable by anything in Europe and the world by their behaviour and by their all other appearances, etc. It is now something that is trying to achieve this goal in such a way. We have information, by the way, and the Intelligence and Security Agency and it hasn't graduated in any degree of secrecy. She probably saw the Agency that other formations were like this and that there would be a public present that I see not much interest in them, because there was only Mr. Čavar left, and it happens here that a lot of this right here is right of us when some other topics are much less important to BiH with a much greater affinity talking, and then there are. Eighty-eight, so it's not tapered. And I tell you, and you'll see what's written here, I'll just have some (as much time as I have) postulate and we'll see. And here's this information.
ParlaMint-BA_2010-07-14-0.u36248	You're already on loan.
ParlaMint-BA_2010-07-14-0.u36249	What?
ParlaMint-BA_2010-07-14-0.u36250	You're on loan, I said.
ParlaMint-BA_2010-07-14-0.u36251	Okay, I can put together a relic. And I won't use a replica. How about it, Chairman?
ParlaMint-BA_2010-07-14-0.u36252	All right, all right.
ParlaMint-BA_2010-07-14-0.u36253	Okay, thank you. But don't give us Bog or God Bog this information has come through. Then they'd just grab my head and see what was written in it and how serious it was. Since I don't have much time, I don't want all the things that we need to say here today, I'm just gonna say some things. And this information was written by the Intelligence and Security Agency signed by Director General Almir Džuvo who, by chance, is Bošnjak. And that doesn't mean anything that he's Bošnjak, he wrote one piece of information that, I think, is about the most accurate of all of this information, approximately accurate for those needs. If this isn't the case, and if you have an objection, gentlemen, those who think it isn't the case, start an initiative for his shift because this information was placed by him. And if there's no such initiative after his shift, then we need to be well concerned about this information that's here and that's only the authority of the information because it's not graduated, and what if it were yet to be graduated. Here you will find much where it is said and how it works and who acts, etc., and who will first come upon impact, and that it is the Bošnjak and that today in the Bosniak people I have friends who tell me the other day: it is not my problem anymore, it says, and don't tell me Bog don't let my children just taste drugs, now, it says, just pray Bog don't let me have children... of this movement and go to my children in God, etc. There is also some sympathy in BiH for this movement here, and that is how it is, here's the information. At the beginning of that, there could be no members of BiH, right, or at least a few. And now we have 97-98%, which means that without sympathy and support, that movement would not grow in BiH. If we didn't have sympathy for that and support, of course we wouldn't have been to try those who infiltrated it here failed. In the statements, so I'm building up here, so don't let anyone get me wrong, the statements also mentioned that the top of the Islamic community was involved in this. So I'm speaking in statements, and I've been listening and reading those statements. And after that, I didn't hear a strong, firm argument from the Islamic 89 communities that they were being built on. Publicly, if it's nothing to do with it, it needs to be fenced by all these things that are written here in this information. Here, it looks like my time is about to come to an end and that's why I suggest the next conclusion. _________(?) It's long gone. It's not a replica. _________(?) And the replica's expired.
ParlaMint-BA_2010-07-14-0.u36258	Well, time's up. 90
ParlaMint-BA_2010-07-14-0.u36259	Thank you very much. Thank you, Chairman, for your understanding.
ParlaMint-BA_2010-07-14-0.u36260	It's really running out now. Replica, the esteemed representative Denis Bećirović.
ParlaMint-BA_2010-07-14-0.u36261	It would be good if the Election Commission introduced the first time you run for this BiH Parliament to test whether you have steel nerves. Only if you have the most durable nerve possible, then you should be allowed to run for parliament. I, here, listen for 14 minutes to my colleague Mirko Okolić from no less than SDS and man, or this SDS leadership a few days ago, on the day of the anniversary of Europe's largest genocide after 1945, features two of the biggest villains in Europe after '45. Year, Radovan Karadžić and Ratko Mladić. And he, from that SDS, by accident to me right over here above my head, talks for 14 minutes that someone is being fenced, some religious community, some of something. Well, that went beyond all possible measures. If there was a speck of state here, if there was a shred of the seriousness of this international community, you, colleague Okolić, and the SDS would be banned from political action. PEACE
ParlaMint-BA_2010-07-14-0.u36262	/microphone is not enabled/
ParlaMint-BA_2010-07-14-0.u36263	I'm saying he's got basic concepts. I don't know who can listen to you, but I can't listen to you anymore.
ParlaMint-BA_2010-07-14-0.u36264	The next is Honorable Representative Ekrem Ajanović. _________(?) [[no microphone turned on]] I apologize, as good nerves should be had, distinguished representative Sadik Bahtić.
ParlaMint-BA_2010-07-14-0.u36266	Thank you. I am sorry that my colleague Lagumdžija left, and my colleague Denis Bećirović. The CEC should introduce criteria for the responsibility of MP Zlatko Lagumdžija. The man hasn't been here in half a year. Today he came in half an hour to teach us a political lesson, and it is well known that all of his discussion believed she was down to Miletić, the director of the Federal Police, because he signed him a criminal application for his racket affair. His whole story was about the Director of the Federal Police. And this government, as counterpart Denis Bećirović said five or six times, this government bar has no affairs, no rackets of affairs, no construction mafia, and where the SDP government, believe me, is crawling with rackets of the affair and 91 construction mafia. If BiH citizens want such a mafia, I know a lot of poor women whose SDPs have taken the country from the council, turning the land agriculturally into a construction site to build the mafia there, well, that's the authority they're making us. That's it. _________(?) The agenda. It's the agenda. The security situation in BiH can be defined very... with a tendency to deteriorate. It is an election year and this, believe me, will have a significant impact on the state of security in many areas of life. Political turmoil, coalitions, plantings and various forms against... activity, and all for election results, create an ambience of uncertainty and uncertainty. Publicly declared destructive forces within BiH use such a state for their aggressive political action and fortify their positions for the upcoming elections. The psychological-propagand political action and the strengthening of its positions, the separation of one entity or the creation of new divisions within the state makes the situation uncertain and the residents are concerned about the future. Such an environment leads to a rise... in crime, terrorism, drug trafficking, illegal arms trafficking, etc. The creation of such an image in front of the international community is delaying the admission into Euro-Atlantic associations that destructive forces explain as the inability of ruling parties, such as those behind my back, to normalize the situation to show themselves as the key to all solutions. They would solve everything if they came, there would be nothing, no Wahhabi, no terrorism, no crime, no corruption. And we know where they are, alaselamet. Woe to those who live in Tuzla and Bihac, so, I live because I have my own district, so where there is no... _________(?) [[microphone is not enabled]]
ParlaMint-BA_2010-07-14-0.u36269	Well done. The next is Honorable Representative Ekrem Ajanović.
ParlaMint-BA_2010-07-14-0.u36270	Mr. President, colleagues and colleagues, after today's debate, I can freely say that there are a lot of debaters with certain views that I agree with, and there are a lot of debaters that I do not agree with. But I have become a bit sad and sad because the first question I ask myself is what is the BiH Parliament? It reminds me of some time ago when a farmer's cooperative reads the successes and says, "One godfather five tons produced this, then two godmothers five produced that." And now one asks, Tell me, the rich one, what is a godfather? And the director says, "You're an anti-element and you can't ask questions that are a state secret." So the godmother, he can't tell a coma, it's a state secret. That's how it works now. Sadiković told us, Minister, all in fact that he must not tell this parliament because of the investigation because this parliament must not know the real truth, so they should only know the ones we have set up, which we have made, which we have given. And they forget, these gentlemen forget that there are closed sessions. In closed sessions, we can discuss matters and for the purpose of investigations that must not be made public and must be signed. Therefore, everywhere in the world it is a normal trust in Parliament. And from that I conclude that I'm starting to fear that a little bit of the state will not turn into a legal state, but not a democratic state, but a legal state that the police will start to rule. And that's very dangerous. I've always fought against it, and I'll always fight. And that's why maybe it's a mistake, so I made a vote to discuss two things together, two events. First, the "Light" action is a complete failure of the police, a complete failure of the police. And that the same minister here swore that in 15 days he would give us a full report that would be passed on to the Council of Ministers, and it happened that the court had released everything, that there was no terrorism, that there was no attack on the constitutional order, etc., which is a very dangerous thing. And now we're moving on to another thing that is making me very, very sad again, which is that there really has been a terrorist act in BiH. And all those who love this country, and I believe that we all do, are very sorry that terrorist attacks can be created in our country at all. That's one problem. The only bright thing that happened is that they caught the people who did this event quickly, and if Bog does, if the services do their job, if they can do their job, if they want to do their job, then they'll know their employers, and then we'll take off the agenda of this debate – whether it's Islamic terrorism or some other terrorism, or this terrorism. Because I ask myself a question, when I listened to certain officials, certain executives of certain services, they swore that they would examine everything until the end but that they should not interfere in fact, that they could do so, etc. And even, unfortunately, one 93 said that they had information that it was going to happen. Now, if these people had information and knew it would happen, why didn't they stop it, they should be convicted, they should be replaced, they should be arrested. To continue to be the same man that the international community swears to and certain people talk to, he's making a statement today in the Daily Avaz 'we can't track all potential terrorists'. So he says that in BiH, with his statement, he says there are as many potential terrorists in BiH as you want because he can't track them. And how is that possible, please? There's a third thing coming to me that I need to discuss. The other day I listened to Belgrade Radio-televizija-Television, where Kondić was, was their minister and was an adviser, so at least they say he is a consultant... for terrorism Dževad Galijašević, and at that point they say 4,000 there are terrorists in Tesnja. And in one sign that was this Dževad Galijašević wrote that I am Abu Hamza and worse than Abu Hamza. And now it turns out I'm the leader of a terrorist. And now to correct this Galijašević, he says, "No, no, I was wrong, it's not him, it's Haris Silajdžić. It means there's someone, certain services who want to make surveillance because they have a huge number of terrorists in BiH. And then I wonder if those intelligence services were asking for this terrorism to happen. And that's why I'm glad that those who have committed terrorism have been caught, and I demand that as an MP and as, let's say the institution, (because no matter what we talked about, the MP is an institution), I demand that an MP be examined by the end of the case and that at any cost finds out who the commander is because these people suspect they're so foolish that they came from themselves and said let's do this terrorist act. Although they still say the same thing, which concerns me, certain people from the police who are believed to be very large, says, here individuals... at the border of reason. If they claim that there are 3,000 people and these people are borderline on reason, then they need all these 3,000 people to take psychologically to be examined, to be tested mentally, to be established, because there will be as many terrorist acts as you want. So if you have the number of people you're saying exist as terrorists, what is 2,000 people following? What's to track 2,000 people? 2,000 people can follow without a problem... if you have good intelligence, if you have good police forces, if you have organized everything else, because you have to. As Parliament, we too need to conclude two things today. The first thing: there can be no government or ministers, no prosecutors, no police chiefs, to this House as if it were a local community, so they can send them reports that we've already heard on TV, read in the paper, to all the newspapers you want, and they send us a report, that's something report. Well, we don't need that report. We've heard it before, like everyone else who isn't. So, seriously, you need to make a statement to the government and certain bodies that don't respond... to the demands of Parliament that is seeking and insists on telling the truth and that the truth is being determined, because if there was a truth then we would have more trust in each other, we wouldn't say that there are these or those, they wouldn't say that, here's what the speaker said before me, that 97% of Muslims have sympathy for these people, which is a general lie, so you want to go to the mosque and look at it on Friday, so you know who's Wahhabi. He worships the Pharisees, and worships no more the sun, nor the carpets, nor anything else, he leaves the mosque. So when you see that three or four people have, say, five or six in Tesnje, they're gone. They're 100% under control, and I know for a fact that these people have nothing to do with terrorism. I'm not saying there are no people. The second, they say, cannot be monitored financially. How can you not follow financially? How? The law allows us all to be followed financially. When I want to pay with a check of more than 20,000 marks, I have to fill out the form: where did I get that money? So, how come those in the banks when they get someone more than 20,000 marks by law cash, don't make certain things, don't give reports. And from that you can do anything, everything can be determined, everything can be found. 94 Now to finish, I condemn entirely this terrorist attack and I expect the authorities who are in charge of taking these measures to the end in order to determine the true facts and to bring certain things to an end. And I have one more thing to say, someone here was saying the Islamic community, the top of the Islamic community, etc., so please, the Islamic community has been fenced by Wahhabi. So did you read the other day article that Enes Ljevaković, who in some way was a high-ranking member of the Islamic community who in this very sense, in that body, once made an article in the Daily Avaz in which the Islamic Community 100% condemned vehabism and condemned it as such.
ParlaMint-BA_2010-07-14-0.u36271	Time!
ParlaMint-BA_2010-07-14-0.u36272	But they also said that they can't do and they don't need to do police operations. If we allow the Islamic Community to perform operational police activities, the Orthodox Church to perform operational activities, the Catholic Church to perform operational activities, then we do not create a state secular but we create a state religious and that's bullshit in my court. In any case, I condemn this act as an act, and I accept those measures that have been proposed that certain conditions should be improved, both legally and economically and financially, etc., but this report, which is like this and which is done like this, is a report by the local community, and I couldn't accept it. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-BA_2010-07-14-0.u36273	Thank you. Next is Honorable Representative Momčilo Novaković.
ParlaMint-BA_2010-07-14-0.u36274	Mr. Chairman, I will be very brief, without the intention of taking you as chairman of this right, but today we had a item on the agenda of the Council of Ministers Information on the terrorist attack on the Police Station in Bugojn, and we had no information from the Council of Ministers. We had material from our commission that didn't adopt any of the proposed conclusions. So, we held a debate based on this information from the Ministry of Security, or the security of BiH, from which no information was reported, so no information was requested from this home. In view of the number of conclusions proposed here, I would suggest that the information be returned to the committee responsible, which will consider once again, how the existing documents and conclusions that have been proposed here, and the information of the Council of Ministers, which will be delivered to this committee in the meantime. We simply mean that we do not have a single document here today that we are looking for, in particular, that we have one group of conclusions from which some of which are so many, even, here is Mr. Bahtić's whole process, the way we're looking for, so those who need to figure out what kind of strategy, he suggested all of this..., on the other hand, the conclusions of the SDP that compared five-six incomparable things like this in order to reciprocate probably one or all of these four-five things, 95 of course, in a good old custom: the communists have equalized themselves with anti-fascistsists, although we know that antifascistsists are not just communists, i.e. that all others and many others were anti-fascistsists, so that I think it is necessary to return, I repeat, to return this to the competent commission who would once again look at all and try to come up to the proposals of conclusions. So she can propose to Parliament and then to me at the next session – bearing in mind this conclusion by Mr Okolić, means whether in the section that will be closed to the public or the whole session closed, etc. - consider and bring a set of serious measures, and conclusions, and responsibilities for those we have chosen here in this House. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-BA_2010-07-14-0.u36275	Thank you. As for your observations regarding the name of the agenda points and the material under which we have conducted the debate You are right, however, we have, as a narrow College, determined to put this on the agenda, to discuss it, and we have all met you and you have given your consent to call this item on the agenda in this way. As far as your conclusion is concerned, I ask you to deliver it by the time of the vote so that we can declare ourselves. The next one is MP Milica Marković.
ParlaMint-BA_2010-07-14-0.u36276	Thank you, Mr. Chairman. My colleagues and fellow MPs, I answered at the end of this discussion although I didn't think I was answering because there was a discussion and when you're sitting and watching, or you're listening to all these discussions, then it's a clear picture of who here in this House really has an intention and wants to be honest about this bad appearance and trend in BiH, which is these terrorist attacks and phenomena that are happening – that they are fighting and that we are fighting against them, and who doesn't. Someone mentioned here today from previous speakers and said that maybe we're having an empty discussion about this information because there are no representatives of other institutions that are competent and that might even be more competent to provide answers to some of the issues asked today than is the Minister of Security here. And I agree in part with that, but I don't think it was necessary for an OSA representative to come now, I don't know, security agencies, I think the key thing was that today... representatives of the BiH Prosecutor's Office were invited here. Why do I say that? This information is as it is written and all of this information here that is presented, I think it's very correct and perfectly consistent with what it was supposed to be done. So this is what the state institutions did, how they technically did it and how it ended. The key activity and the key thing was: the final activity was in the BiH Prosecutor's Office. And we have a situation that after what all these people are, here's what we saw in this information how many people were hired, how much it cost that action, and then the prosecution after a while, what Slavuj said: today, when people break down, they stay 30 days in prison until everything is investigated and until all the evidence is brought out and the necessary elements are brought up whether the charges against them will be filed or not. They're releasing the group that was arrested in Upper Maoc. When there was a case in Bugojn after 24 hours of perpetrator... where a dead head fell, a murder occurred, and a woman who was in a very difficult situation, 96 that man was released within 48 hours, a man ended up in Saudi Arabia. What are we talking about right now? How to fight the state when the D.A. lets those people who were probably supposed to be tried because, at least because a dead head fell and what happened to the murder. That person isn't here. Who let her go? She was released by the D.A.'s representatives. And when the SNSD has been principled and very argumentative all these four years that we are participating in this House's work in this conference, when we said about the BiH Prosecutor's Office's report and the Court of Justice that there are problems, that these things don't seem to be doing exactly right, that all of us were being transferred to, well, because of the verdicts that are being made against Srbin, because of this, because of that. And now, if you wanted to see realistically and objectively in the context of this information, it's clear that the problem in the BiH Prosecutor's Office, because if it weren't for those procedures, you'd either be in a phase of realization, or you'd be charged, or you'd know. Just like this says the investigation is ongoing and there's no, period, there's nothing further. And then how do we think to bring it now? Mr. Bešlagić said today: "There is a law to be defined to prohibit terrorism." Well, I think it's absurd that terrorism is as characterized in the world and in other countries, in our environment, and as other countries refer to this terrorism, it's totally naive and banal to say now: we need a law that we're fighting against. Well, that's a logical thing, just like the logical thing to do is finish primary school first to move on, to go to school. But that's where the key problem is, we don't want to talk about it, and we're not going to say that the problem in the BiH Prosecutor's Office is and their relationship with many phenomena in this country, so here's the end, and in the most tragic phenomena such as terrorist attacks. And in the end, I'd like to deny two things, I haven't answered the line, but here I think you'll allow me in the context of my discussion to say. Mr. Sadik Bahtić said there is terrorism everywhere, there is terrorism in the RS, and he listed everything in other places; so if it were fortunate that the whole state of terrorism in all of BiH as it is in the RS, we would be a happy society, we would not have Bugojno, we would not have Zenica, we would not have murders on trams in Sarajevo and similar situations. And what you said to the SDP that the ruling parties here teach lessons to each other as if they were opposition rather than ruling parties; so I have to tell you, Mr. Bećirović, that the SNSD once before, you may have forgotten that when the situation was to replace the previous Minister of Security Tarik Sadović, we, even then, before his shift, indicated what this man was doing, how this man behaves and what happens to him, and why he deserved to be replaced by this parliament, that we wanted to look at the overall and real situation around that minister. But we didn't until it burned down to the very party of the SDA when she had to launch the initiative herself to replace a man and name himself a second minister. So you can't impute it to the SNSD. The same principled relationship was ours with the prosecution, for the reasons I had already mentioned before, and with some other institutions in this country, which behave as they behave. And if we continue this behavior and this trend that we want to either push our head into the sand or push problems under the carpet, we can only expect someone new Bugojno, a new Zenica, new phenomena as they were, and as far as this country is going to come, we'll just see it, and we've seen it in the previous period. Perhaps not more than two months ago, Mr Lagumdžija stood up here and told all of us to ask for information from the Ministry of Security to be supplied to the data provider, so he said, that information was found on the Security Council website and a list of 97 individuals from BiH state institutions who are in co-ordination with some terrorist organisations. And that, at that time, he said it very alarmingly and asked... for us to be informed. I don't know that we were once informed or I wasn't present when that information came in, but we saw that everything when we expected in April and May of the month to get visa liberalisation and to free these citizens, that there was a visa-free regime in this country -- it was hitched. It's said 'no, you can't'. And if we're that naive, we'll just say it's those three or four conditions that we haven't met, apparently, in legal obligations, and we won't admit what's real and objective that there's a lot of bigger and more serious problems. One of these is these terrorist attacks that have led countries and the EU and the environment to have a large reserve in order for BiH to liberalise the visa regime and at all allow it to gain candidate status. It was not a random statement, 15-20 days ago, Mrs. Angela Merkel who said, "After Croatia's entry into the EU, let every possible reception stop and stop at that." Whoever needs to think realistically and objectively should consider all this in the context of BiH. That's it.
ParlaMint-BA_2010-07-14-0.u36277	Thank you. Replica, the esteemed representative Denis Bećirović.
ParlaMint-BA_2010-07-14-0.u36278	Well, you shouldn't have mentioned SDP and me personally, especially not so unargued to discuss as you have now. We just need to talk about facts. What I'm holding here is information from the Ministry of Security this March. This information literally states: 'According to the knowledge collected by members of this community', it refers to members of the Wahhabi community in Maoci, 'in the period from 2002-2010, as an organised group, to carry out activities aimed at changing the constitutional order of the country by using or threatening force.' So they're jeopardizing the country's constitutional order. And that is the assessment of the Ministry of Security's information at the BiH Council of Ministers. Now, that's a grade for this Wahhabi community. The only political party that does the same thing (maybe worse than this community does) is the SNSD. That's not my grade, of course. I have here in my hand a resolution of the Parliamentary Assembly of the Council of Europe of January 2010. The Council of Europe Parliamentary Assembly Resolution states: "We are particularly concerned with the fact that the RS authorities are undermining the constitutional structure of BiH as well as the Dayton Peace Agreement." So, the Council of Europe says you're doing the same thing the Ministry of Security claims to be doing to this Wahhabi community. You deal with these grades, this isn't my grade. So, if necessary, I will now copy you, this is the Resolution of the Parliamentary Assembly of the Council of Europe. Instead of seeing what you're going to do with the Parliamentary Assembly of the Council of Europe, you're dealing with the SDP. What do you need that for?
ParlaMint-BA_2010-07-14-0.u36279	Replica, the esteemed representative, Milica Marković. 98
ParlaMint-BA_2010-07-14-0.u36280	Well, I know that you know how to be and to come down very low, but to know that you present such untruths, the person of your age and your academic education! DENIS
ParlaMint-BA_2010-07-14-0.u36281	/no microphone turned on/
ParlaMint-BA_2010-07-14-0.u36282	Let me just say a little bit, so I didn't...
ParlaMint-BA_2010-07-14-0.u36283	It says.
ParlaMint-BA_2010-07-14-0.u36284	It says, but it doesn't say that SNSD is equal to the Wahhabi movement. The SNSD is the ruling party in RS and therefore the RS stands much better both economically, politically, and safely, and however you will, than the Federation in which they have municipalities where the SDP is government. That's one thing. The second thing, the SNSD will never and will never intend to do any damage to the RS or BiH, unlike your party, which, as we heard, falls criminal charges, engages in racketeering and mafia activities, deals with the construction mafia, is in correlation with those organisations. Now, that's a shame for the citizens of BiH, and there's a blow to the citizens of BiH. And you ask yourself what you're doing, and don't take care of the SNSD. The SNSD will be told by voters, now in October when it is, and thank Bog they say the SNSD will again be a winning party and will certainly stand better than the SDP.
ParlaMint-BA_2010-07-14-0.u36285	The next is Mr. President-in-Office's first deputy. Beriz Belkić.
ParlaMint-BA_2010-07-14-0.u36286	I'll spend about how much on the replica, it's a discussion. So, in my opinion, maybe you'll be amazed at other than some, to say the exact situations where people have come out of context, out of maybe measure themselves, the debate has shown that we understand that this is a general problem and that this is a problem that society has to face with all its resources. That's encouraging to me. Of course, we may not all have experienced it this way. I think it's very important to have a measure in everything, so also in life, and a measure in the assessment of certain things, so these phenomena that we're discussing today. You, Mrs Marković, mentioned the EU, etc., I think the EU, too, has contributed to this frustration within the country with its relationship to BiH, so to speak. And it would be very wrong, that Mrs. Doris pak, or Angela Merkel, etc., some send signals that should be stopped, etc., would produce contrasts, at least in my opinion. It's very important here to work on the basic postulate 'let everyone do their job'. The one who doesn't work should be replaced. 99 What must we as Parliament do? So, of course, it is our duty to bring this regulatory framework. We'll see what we can do about it. The regulatory framework will certainly not solve the problem itself, but it is certainly one segment. In my opinion, it is very important to release these structures dealing with these matters of political pressure, so to carry out a truly sincere depolitisation. Let me remind you, whenever we appointed people here as heads of these agencies, etc., we first held discussions to which people belonged, so when we determined that, then we went to identify which political party that was going to be on behalf of the people, we said this is a Bosniak place, this is a Serb place, etc., so in a structure that is so sensitive and important to society as a whole, we still introduced this political aspect, all under the cloak that the peoples were represented, etc. Of course, I do not question the representation of the people at all, etc., but when it comes to these specific services there must indeed be depoliticalisation fully carried out and must insist on the expertise and determination of people to do their job. I agree with those people that, in some situations, really, those who are directly responsible should resign or be replaced, because these are messages without which we really can't. And finally, it is not a replica, but a correction of the false allegations, the BiH presidency has reacted in both cases, and it has publicly and very strongly condemned this terrorist act from the scene, when it comes to Bugojn, and of course it has condemned the phenomenon in Maoci etc.
ParlaMint-BA_2010-07-14-0.u36287	Thank you. The next is the second Vice-President. Milorad Živković.
ParlaMint-BA_2010-07-14-0.u36288	...let everyone say what they have and then eventually something can be sublimated. Namely, there are no media, no one, we talk as colleagues, we talk about things that I don't need to convince anyone that it's not politics, but we're talking about what's the problem with BiH. The college decided to go to Brussels to discuss, among other things, with Mrs Doris pak, and Kukan, and Fajon, and to discuss visa liberalisation, also happened Bugojno. I did not go as Milorad Živković, but I went ahead of the College and this Parliamentary Assembly and you saw my statements that were not even in agreement with those who spoke from the SR. I wanted to separate something called visa liberalisation and what every BiH citizen should get with terrorist activities happening everywhere in the world, including in Europe. But now that we're talking about this topic here, let's talk openly. I didn't say in dramatic terms that here is a matter of life and co-existence, not a question of the responsibility of the minister, for nothing. When I said that, I thought the Wahhabi movement in BiH was causing problems for all of BiH, yes, whether I wanted to admit it or not, that's what Professor Ajanović said in mosques about what's going on, that it's now the problem of the Islamic Community and Bošnjak and that there's a struggle within that community. We are helping to resolve this in that segment, because if it is not resolved in that segment, if that fight is lost in that place, then co-existence in BiH will come into question, it will be questionable that everyone will start defending himself in a way that can defend himself. That's what we talked about in sincere desire and will. 100 Would you like me to mention when we talked about Criminal Law, here's the SDP to mention, when I said loudly and clearly here, here, to ban the Chetnic movement, that I'm not a member of this movement, because I know that some members or members of the other two peoples in BiH are afraid of it, I have called on you – let us ban both Wahhabi and Selefia. I didn't find a positive answer. Let's talk about life together in BiH, I'm afraid we'll be in a position to talk about co-existence. So why don't you give it here loud and clear today to say if there is or no terrorism in BiH? If there is one, what is that intensity and what are the projections in the future? Because here we've heard it's not there, that it's benign, that it's controversial. Let's at least say it or not, right, the political will I've said and the entire SNSD and RS will say political will, let's fight it. We got hands for it or we don't have hands for it. Don't lie to me. We can tell strangers what we want and when we go there, and believe that they know it, we don't need to lie to them either. Thank you.
ParlaMint-BA_2010-07-14-0.u36289	Thank you. The word has been given by the honourable minister, Mr Sadik Ahmetović.
ParlaMint-BA_2010-07-14-0.u36290	Here, given that the chairman of the OSCE Labour Control Commission has asked me to say again, so I repeat what I said in Bugojn in the morning when I was: it was a difficult terrorist act that hit the BiH state, that is, the law enforcement institution called the police. So that's clearly what I'm saying all the time and that's my attitude. So it's probably going to be the attitude at the end when the D.A.'s done his part of the job and he's facing an investigation. I repeat, we have a problem and we all need to solve this together. According to a report by the BiH Intelligence Agency, there is also a proposal for measures that affect the overall social system in BiH and the Ministry of Security is available in a domain that is legally involved in the process. The Department of Security has proposed measures, I ask you to go one by one or together, however you wish, to try to get any results. Secondly, as far as today's discussion is concerned, and there have been some proposals that are also good, as far as the Minister and the Ministry of Security are concerned, we will take a stenogram and we can install everything from our jurisdiction into measures if by law they belong there. I thank you... for all today's discussions. I hope we can learn from this, too, but if we go further when it comes to the debate, and I'm afraid all of our stories would have a conflict. Therefore, if, in the context of the Council of Ministers, we might draw some final conclusions, etc., it might be a solution, given the stenogram from this session and all these proposals that you have made. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-BA_2010-07-14-0.u36291	Thank you, Mr. Secretary of Security. Sadik Ahmetović. I am finalising the debate on points 7 and 8. 101 Moving to point 9. Ad. Nine. Information on Bosnia and Herzegovina's public debt situation on 31.12.2009 The BiH Council of Ministers is 4. Six. In 2010, the information was delivered. The Finance and Budget Committee is 9. 7th delivered Opinion on Information and unanimously accepted. The Commission proposes to the House to adopt the following conclusions: '1. The BiH Parliamentary Assembly's House of Representatives requires the BiH Council of Ministers to request entity governments, as soon as possible, to submit reports on the implementation of loans and dynamics of those projects for which costs are paid for unengaged funds. 2. The BiH Parliamentary Assembly's House of Representatives tasks the Central Bank of BiH and the Ministry of Finance and the Treasury to establish, in cooperation with other competent institutions, the total amount of the external debt of the private sector in order to have a review of the state of total debt at BiH level." I'm opening an information debate. Dear Representative Azra Hadžiahmetović.
ParlaMint-BA_2010-07-14-0.u36293	Thank you, Chairman. Here, I read this information carefully because I am very interested. To welcome in one way and the usual practice which, of course, came from the Council of Ministers' obligation to provide once a year information to this kind of Parliament. However, I would like to draw attention to the fact that this parlement is involved in the final instance of debt ratification, particularly external debt, or only external debt. Our borrowing procedures for international financial institutions in international capital markets, on a public basis or private capital, entail the involvement of other institutions. And so far, when the information of this species seems to have not been so much of a need to draw attention to this, but the information contained, especially what is in the conclusion, although not widely elaborated, points out the need for this parliament to in one way express its concern and serious warning to all institutions within BiH over the extent of the debt limit reached, i.e. public debt within the framework and economic growth ratios, i.e. the share in the GDP of BiH. I want to mention this for one reason why I don't think so much has been taken care of so far about BiH's opportunities to serve the total debt, both external and internal debt. We've never faced this problem before, but we're already starting to face it. There is so much a need for this parliament to direct the Council of Ministers, in a way, to call or change procedures related to the conclusion of the treaty, which would also involve parliamentary scrupulousness in some earlier steps, or to seriously consider any additional debt of BiH, as there is a real danger of disrupting macroeconomic stability. That's what it's said here in the conclusion. I also think that the 102 proposal that this commission has given to provide, possibly further information on the private sector's responsibilities, is already well included in the Central Bank's elaborates. When it comes to internal debt, the private sector in international capital markets behaves in accordance with the rules and laws, right, because we know who the foreign debt guarantee is, but that there is a need for some caution and reaction from this Parliament, which does not have the opportunity to react in previous stages, but only in this final instance does it really exist. That's it, thank you.
ParlaMint-BA_2010-07-14-0.u36294	Husein Nanić.
ParlaMint-BA_2010-07-14-0.u36295	I thank you, Chairman. I appreciate that this information is a good basis for discussion and for detecting problems and phenomena related to BiH's debt and debt. I'll try to look back at two aspects of this information in my presentation. One of them is that we see here data that the total public debt of BiH is 8.23 billion and that it is 35% public debt participation in BiH's gross social product. However, we can also see in this information that projects are worth 1.3 billion in the approval procedure in 2009. We also see in the tables that projects are being prepared at 1.63 billion. This means a new 2.93 billion public debt, where there is no finding whether it will be in the period of a year, two or three after 2009. We get to 11.2 billion figures and we get to 50%, or more than 50% of the public debt in GDP. In addition, this information does not cover debt data, what Mrs Hadjiahmetovic was saying, in commercial banks, municipalities, cantons, entities, public enterprises, public institutions, etc., because I also know that municipalities owe significant funds, that cantons are in significant debt to commercial banks that do not have this procedure that has been introduced here. Also, there are no data, given that we have brought in the revised return strategy and certain figures are presented there which BiH is obliged to provide, we have no data on how much it is. And I think that at this point in time, according to the real debt obligations and the projected commitments for BiH to cross that critical 60 per cent point towards the master criterion. It's a question for this ministry. A question for all of us, the issue of reaching a phase, that is, to the level that BiH and any state can cross. And why, among other things, is this thing that I'm talking about, and it is the conclusion in the conclusion, or the conclusions in this information, that according to this information, the data available here is being listed, the question is whether there is inaccessible data. We also don't have what is said here, and in conclusion but expanded, so we don't have what is the private sector's debt, i.e. economy and citizens' debt. The second segment I wanted to mention here was very briefly, and it was contained... in the conclusions of our commission: costs for unengaged funds. And it has been repeated throughout this mandate, these issues, and a request for an explanation of 24 million marks and three key ones: Corridor Vc, railways and road reconstruction with some significant amount, means from the funds paid by BiH due to unused funds. And the key thing about these unused funds is unpreparedness, essentially projects, institutions that prepare these projects, unpreparedness and therefore pay for those funds. One of them, here at Unsko-Sanski Canton: The regional deposit has $2 million, five years been made, indeed, inaccessible for a long time and no location has been determined at all, no property relations have been resolved and it has entered into the credit arrangement of taking 103 funds and therefore they have been paid, among other things, and these funds. It's clear here, with these funds, who didn't do their part of the job, and I think it was good that these things were listed, the data. For this reason, I would suggest a number of conclusions which would return the House of Representatives to the completion of the State of Public Obligation on 31.12. to task the Council of Ministers to request data from the conclusions of our Commission, from two conclusions, that the information should be supplemented with data on the responsibilities of all levels of government in BiH in commercial banks and the responsibilities of citizens and businesses, and that the information should be complemented by an assessment of BiH's debt on the basis of planned projects and that we seek a deadline for the delivery of this information, 30 days, from the Council of Ministers, thanking the Council of Ministers.
ParlaMint-BA_2010-07-14-0.u36296	Velimir Jukić.
ParlaMint-BA_2010-07-14-0.u36297	Mr. President, ladies and gentlemen, colleagues... esteemed guests,
ParlaMint-BA_2010-07-14-0.u36298	velimire, I'm sorry, if we could just try to be more expedient to finish the session tonight...
ParlaMint-BA_2010-07-14-0.u36299	I'll do it very briefly. I will only comment on two things and also invite those who are not here, and these are the people of the executive government, to do everything possible to ensure that the funds provided for various projects in BiH in the amount of billions and seven hundred and some million marks are put into that purpose for which they are also intended and to ensure that all the direct benefits of direct... that investments bring to our country, and especially bearing in mind the importance of these investments at the time of the recession we live, when we have the fall of some of the most important economic movements in BiH. And it is unacceptable that in the last two years, the cost of the insurance funds and the untapped growth of the already significant twenty million marks, which is certainly too much luxury to afford itself a much stronger economy and economies and larger developed countries than BiH. And, really, what I think has failed to do in the last here or two days is just put into operation this asset and here is why message to everyone in BiH to really deal with this seriously because there is no excuse and justification for such a long delay. Of course, some of the funds we've been looking for and we've been effective in looking for funds for some projects and we've been fast and I'd say effective, effective, but when we get those funds, then we've been booked for a year or two days and we're paying for those reservations. So, as soon as you put into operation this asset. I will only comment a little more on one equally visible fact from this data, which is therefore the total external debt of BiH, its structure from the perspective of the old and new debt, where it is seen that the old debt is constantly falling, which is logical. However, the new debt is growing at quite a solid pace so that today the new debt has grown to a Europe of 3,160,000,000 marks, which is certainly significant and BiH, according to master criteria, is located or belongs to the category of countries that are medium 104 in charge. So, according to that criterion, we're standing pretty well. However, the same internal debt – if it is really as big as it is represented here – is not great. But I don't know if there's a whole internal debt, whether or not some other debt that is announced as a possible debt on damage, etc., so that the picture could be with another approach and much different and much worse for BiH. However, it is again our question that within that state these alignments are also being carried out. And what is also very important and important is that the Council of Ministers needs to make additional efforts and, together with entity and cantonal governments to establish debts and businesses, or private businesses, of the private sector in BiH, in order to get a total picture that has three of the most important parts of it. It is an external debt, which is a state guarantee, an internal debt, so our within the country, and yet to be determined, it is not easy to establish, and the public sector's debt, so that they can then come to a total debt and that they can take a good look at the opportunities and situation in BiH. And in the end, I won't last any longer, this is praiseworthy information, however, also if the Council of Ministers is further engaged, I think it can supplement this report with more missing information to have a full and real picture. And once again in the end, I think we should all call on the most responsible ones, and we are partly responsible for the reserved funds for important projects in BiH being put into office as soon as possible to bring all the benefits they will otherwise bring. Thank you.
ParlaMint-BA_2010-07-14-0.u36300	Nermina Zaimović-Uzunović-Uzunović.
ParlaMint-BA_2010-07-14-0.u36301	Since my predecessors have already said some things that I would not like to repeat, I would just like to conclude from their analysis that this is not about the state of public duty but about the assessment that not all of these unknown duties, which you mentioned earlier, and also those that happened in the meantime, since 31.12 last year. We know from the media that it's been a significant task since New Year's, from the beginning of the year to today, and this information can be considered, let's say, incompletely, and can also be considered incorrect in its source. On the other hand, we don't have anyone here from the Treasury to give us answers to any questions. Therefore, in order not to further prolong, I am joining all of this which you have said and I will propose conclusions: that the debate on this material be postponed because of the absence of the competent authorities who could provide us with additional answers both because of the incompleteness of the material and to provide Parliament with revised information, further information that will cover this period in which it was also in charge whether as an annex of this or as new information, because precisely for this reason that you have mentioned, therefore because of those assessments that have been carried out or which have already entrusted BiH with new credit arrangements. 105
ParlaMint-BA_2010-07-14-0.u36302	No more reports. As far as your ideas or initiatives related to the postponement of the debate are concerned, we have practically debated here in this way. We can only talk about delaying the plea, but we do not achieve anything special. But here, I am finalising the debate on point 9, so the information on the state of BiH's public debt on 31.12.2009. We're going to point 10.
ParlaMint-BA_2010-07-14-0.u36303	Thank you. Here's point 10. Ad. Ten. Consideration of the Citizens' Group's Initiative on the founding of Bosnia and Herzegovina's judicial bodies on the process of crime during the tragic war conflict on Bosnia and Herzegovina's territory (A adopted initiative by MP Mirko Okolić at the 59th session of the House, held on 2 March 2014). Nine. 2009) The initiative was adopted at the 59th session of the House. As competent, the College has appointed a constitutional commission that is 12. Seven. In 2010, it delivered its opinion and did not support the above-mentioned initiative. I'm opening a debate on the Initiative. No one's reported, closing the hearing. Come on, though, check in a little faster if you already have an intention. Dear Representative Mirko Okolić.
ParlaMint-BA_2010-07-14-0.u36305	I accept that I acted late. Thank you, Mr. Chairman. We adopted this initiative and process this item of the agenda that we are going to discuss today, and I don't think the Constitutional Commission has exactly acted on Article 108. The Rules of Procedure, since she was obliged to invite me as a proposing for a session of this committee, and some members who have now expressed their position that they were not simply familiar with this material well under Article 108. The Rules of Procedure were supposed to call me. But good. And, since you've got all these materials that are needed for this point, I'm going to try very briefly to come to the conclusion that I'm going to suggest without relying much on these materials. You know that a group of citizens who are convicted or tried for war crimes in the tragic war in BiH have addressed one press release, then a request, etc. which was translated through the initiative into the agenda point and the subject of all this was 106 inconsistent application of the Criminal Law when it comes to the processing of war crimes against different peoples. So we have cases here that members of the Serb and Croatian people are treated differently than members of the Bosniak people, which is seen from this initiative and what is seen from the accompanying so that they are almost the same, because the same acts are not, almost the same or milder deeds, convicted after many years of imprisonment from members of the Bosniak people. I think that by adopting this initiative to go to the agenda, we are aware that it is present, based on what we have received in the memos of the Ministry of Justice which also gave certain indications that it is present, then the Bar of Lawyers who also gave indications that it was present and well explained and elaborated and the Ombudsman who also gave indications that it was present but that they could not declare it because they have another jurisdiction. If that were not the case, and if we had gained confidence in the BiH judiciary and each other to gain trust after all these discussions from the previous points, it would be good to support this proposal, because it will not damage anyone here. On the contrary, he will only help reconciliation of all, or help trust between us and simply be able to contribute to all of this. And that is why I propose a conclusion that says this... (the conclusion is really so carefully written that it does not irritate anyone, and that it has a message and that something that we wanted to know and that it is done in the future: 'It is suggested to the Court of BiH that, in the course of the trial of the crime during the tragic war in BiH, it is milder law, is that it is called by regulations, not more favourable than a milder law, for the perpetrators of crimes.' This parliament is suggesting that we do not seem to interfere, etc., which we have every right because it can be suggested to anyone, and it cannot be required or something else in a more difficult form. I think it would be good to accept this conclusion that is nothing more than what is prescribed by law and what should be done and this congregation can be re-determined about it and thus improve trust between us. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-BA_2010-07-14-0.u36306	Thank you. No more reports, closing the hearing. Moving to the 11th point of the agenda: Ad. 11. Statement on MP Mirjana Malić's initiative to discuss the meeting of the House of Agenda – Ensuring transparency and legality of the printing of ballots for the upcoming General Elections in 2010 107 Representative Mirjana Malić referred the initiative to the 78th session of the House. As competent, the College has appointed a constitutional committee of 25. 6th delivered Opinion. The commission supported the initiative. I'm opening a debate on the Initiative. Dear Representative Mirjana Malić.
ParlaMint-BA_2010-07-14-0.u36308	Dear Chairman, colleagues, colleagues, I am in a dilemma whether to explain or spend a lot of time so far. But allow me, really, just one minute. I'd really invite all my colleagues, even though they're not here, even if there's a quorum, to try and support this initiative. I submitted the question to the Central Election Commission on May 25th, which is very zealous and very hasty, and it seems to me even hastily to say that there is no fear of abuse of ballots, and the time since the response to this day has denied me the information that we have all received, that the CEC has also hired our law enforcement services to ensure even more. So every country needs to ensure democratic, transparent and fair elections. We are all interested here, I would not really want to politicise, and therefore I call on you to adopt this initiative in the next session in some way and we, as a legislative part of our authority, contribute to the conclusions and suggestions that we really secure in October fair and democratic elections. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-BA_2010-07-14-0.u36309	Thank you. No more reports, closing the hearing. We're going to the 12th point, Ad. 12. Declaration on the Initiative of the Representatives of the Party for BiH Party to discuss the session of the House of Agenda – Information by the Bosnia and Herzegovina's Attorney General on preventing this institution from performing its functions under the law Representatives of the Party for BiH Club submitted the initiative on 25.5.2010. The College has designated the Constitutional Commission as competent. In 25.6.2010, the Commission delivered its opinion and supported the above-mentioned initiative. I'm opening a debate on the Initiative. Dear Representative Azra Hadžiahmetović. 108
ParlaMint-BA_2010-07-14-0.u36311	Thank you, Chairman. This is one of those situations where a man explains one of these kind of initiatives feels very stupid. If we were a country where law-abiding institutions function, we wouldn't need to put up with this kind of initiative. And here's why we submitted the Initiative. So, this initiative is to include the agenda item at one of the next sessions – Information by the BiH Law Department on preventing this institution from performing its functions under the law. So imagine, we initiate a agenda point so that a state institution submits information about the performance of its function in accordance with the law established. That this is a matter of which provisions, which are the laws, you also have in favour of this initiative, and I will only remind you that the pravobranilaštvo General has the role of BiH legislator, its institutions and bodies in front of courts and state bodies and that the fundamental role of the pravobranilaštvo is therefore in accordance with the laws adopted by this Parliamentary Assembly – the protection of property and property interests of BiH. And as you know, the pravobranilaštvo has begun several procedures in the asset book. I will particularly apostrophe of property that was not at all slow, so it is about the book and not about the availability, the property based on the succession, the property of military or part of military property which is the subject of our path to NATO membership, followed by a slowdown or suspension by the initiation and letter of the High Representative of the D.A. and the activities which do not make any practical status change on the property, but have prevented the legal activities of the pravobranilaštvo from carrying out its work in accordance with the laws that this assembly has passed. So, the pravobranilaštvo's Office, we appreciate, should also be informed of the urgency of this Parliamentary Assembly of the problems in the implementation of the laws adopted by this Parliamentary Assembly and that this Parliamentary Assembly is opening a debate on the implementation of the law and the exercise of the functions of a state institution established by this Parliamentary Assembly. I want to particularly apostrophe the importance of the moment. And I am sorry that from the moment we referred this initiative to the parliamentary procedure to this day, when we declare this initiative, in order to possibly hold a debate at the next session – not only did illegal things happen when it came to the provisions of these laws, which I had just called for, but also the law that was declared by the High Representative. Thank you.
ParlaMint-BA_2010-07-14-0.u36312	Thank you. No more reports, closing the hearing. Switching to 13th point: Giving consent to ratification. Excuse me one more time. The 13th point is: Ad. 13. The BiH Council of Ministers' Conclusion Initiative to draw up a report on the work of the BiH Council of Ministers for the period from January 2007 to June 2010 109 Representative Denis Bećirović suggested that this item be included in the session's agenda. The same representative also proposed the conclusion, which reads: 'The House of Representatives of the Parliamentary Assembly tasks the Council of Ministers to deliver to the Parliamentary Assembly a report on the work of the Council of Ministers for the period from January 2007 to June 2010. 'years.' I'm opening a debate. Dear Representative Denis Bećirović.
ParlaMint-BA_2010-07-14-0.u36314	Well, in a few sentences. So the conclusion is offered, the report by every government in Europe is the democratic fluid of every parliament. He who chooses should eventually hear what he chooses in a certain term. So, I don't think we're going to get away from that fact either. There, the conclusion is suggested, so we'll make a statement.
ParlaMint-BA_2010-07-14-0.u36315	Thank you. The next is Mr. President-in-Office's first deputy. Beriz Belkić.
ParlaMint-BA_2010-07-14-0.u36316	It's not really a replica, but we had annual reports from the Council of Ministers, and every year, according to the Council of Ministers' law, it was a duty and we were getting those reports. I don't know what it is now, but here it is.
ParlaMint-BA_2010-07-14-0.u36317	Replica, the esteemed representative Denis Bećirović.
ParlaMint-BA_2010-07-14-0.u36318	Well, I'm not gonna call it a replica. It's more of an explanation. One is the annual report, and we haven't had all the annual reports yet, we've been going somewhere since 2009. So for the first two years we haven't had it, and the second thing is to see the whole report, so. When we have spoken in the framework of these annual reports, there have often been a Council of Ministers and the Chairman Špirić himself in terms of: so wait until we have completed the mandate, we will do some things etc. So you just have to make one summary. It was said at the beginning of the term of office, it was achieved. I think it is also necessary for the sake of this parliament, its dignity, but also for the sake of the citizens of BiH. We in Parliament are, however, representatives of these citizens and this executive authority, in particular, this Council of Ministers, I suppose, should account to someone. It's in this case this Parliament. I think that such a practice if it wasn't, it would be good to introduce it and that every future Council of Ministers knows that at the outset they will propose some proposal for their actions and tasks and that they will eventually sum up their work and say what they did, what they didn't. There. 110
ParlaMint-BA_2010-07-14-0.u36319	Thank you. Now I'm out of press releases. I'm closing the hearing. Moving to the 14th point of the agenda: Ad. 14. Giving consent to ratification: (a) Agreement between the Council of Ministers of Bosnia and Herzegovina and the Government of the Republic of Turkey on cooperation in the field of health, (b) Treaty between Bosnia and Herzegovina and the Kingdom of Spain on the avoidance of double taxation and the prevention of fiscal evasion in relation to income and property taxes, (c) Treaty on the Guarantee for the Credit Line of the Bosnia and Herzegovina Deposit Insurance Agency between Bosnia and Herzegovina and the European Bank for Reconstruction and Development You got the opinion of the Foreign Affairs Committee. The commission gave a positive opinion and proposed to the House to give consent to ratify these acts. I'm opening a debate. There are no reports, I'm closing the hearing. _________(?) [[no microphone turned on]]
ParlaMint-BA_2010-07-14-0.u36324	/microphone is not enabled/
ParlaMint-BA_2010-07-14-0.u36325	Dear Representative Kalabić has a proposal for a comprehensive conclusion. Let's hear it.
ParlaMint-BA_2010-07-14-0.u36326	Mr. Chairman, given that there are a number of conclusions and one for us is acceptable and if the promoter would accept a modification of Mr. Novaković's proposal for a conclusion where it would stand: The information along with the conclusions is returned to the competent commission that will also obtain this information from the Council of Ministers who did not come today and that we will eventually try to vote on this conclusion to get out of this. All the conclusions are that they go to this committee together with information from the Council of Ministers which did not come today but should come and if the motioner accepts this amendment and we vote on its conclusion.
ParlaMint-BA_2010-07-14-0.u36327	So we're still going to, here we now have a proposal for Mr. Novaković's modified conclusion, but that doesn't mean that we have the others. Let's go ahead and vote on the conclusions. Sadik Bahtić's conclusions, which read: 'The Council of Ministers undertakes to define the security strategy...' ____________(?) You don't have to? There's no need to mean it. Milorad
ParlaMint-BA_2010-07-14-0.u36329	/no microphone turned on/
ParlaMint-BA_2010-07-14-0.u36330	Let's hear it.
ParlaMint-BA_2010-07-14-0.u36331	I think it would be okay to vote on this modified conclusion. In that case, they would not have the need to make an individual statement of conclusions. All the conclusions would go to this committee along with the report. If we accept that conclusion, we don't have to vote. If we don't accept it, then it makes sense to vote on the other conclusions individually. 113
ParlaMint-BA_2010-07-14-0.u36332	I don't think he's, uh... he's not covering Mr. Denis Bećirović's proposal for a conclusion. It doesn't cover, I have to say, I mean, for the sake of correctness, we need to know what it is.
ParlaMint-BA_2010-07-14-0.u36333	We're going to vote and we're going to end this... PEACE
ParlaMint-BA_2010-07-14-0.u36334	/no microphone turned on/
ParlaMint-BA_2010-07-14-0.u36335	Here you go.
ParlaMint-BA_2010-07-14-0.u36336	Here, let me try to help. Given that I have suggested one conclusion similar to this conclusion by Denis Bećirović, and we could now agree, perhaps to supplement this conclusion and to prepare a thematic session that should be held then and then.
ParlaMint-BA_2010-07-14-0.u36337	So let this committee...
ParlaMint-BA_2010-07-14-0.u36338	Well, then, here I see you have a problem now that a man wants to vote on his conclusion and that's where I wanted to help.
ParlaMint-BA_2010-07-14-0.u36339	So this is how, so we don't bid on the final hearing. I apologize for opening it, and here in good faith I thought we'd come to one conclusion, but obviously there's not one conclusion. Let's take the order. When we reach this conclusion by Mr. Momčilo Novaković, we will put him on the plea as a modified conclusion, because Momčilo agreed with it, and all the other conclusions go the way they are proposed, and you choose to make a statement. The first is the proposal for a conclusion by Mr Sadik Bahtić. Prepare to vote. Vote now! 13 votes "for", four "against", 13 "abstained". Insufficient entity majority. We'll agree later, you'll be notified. _________(?) 114 [[no microphone turned on]] What? If you can't help, don't even get away. So we're voting on Agent Denis Bećirović's conclusions, in fact, we're not going to read, so here's the conclusion; it can, if you insist, I can read it. [[Common discussion]]
