ParlaMint-BA_2010-04-09-0.u7284	Ladies and gentlemen, honored colleagues and fellow delegates, present representatives of the Council of Ministers and the international community, respected media representatives, I warmly welcome you and open the 44th session of the House of the Peoples of the Parliamentary Assembly of BiH. The session is attended by 14 delegates, five of whom from the Bosniak people, four from the Croatian people, five from the Serb people. Mr. Božo Ljubić is justifiably absent. For the 44th session, I suggest the following 1. Answers to delegates' questions and delegates' questions; 2. The adoption of the minutes of the 43rd session of the House of Peoples; 3. Report by the Joint Commission on the achievement of agreement on the identical text of the Law on Tobacco of Bosnia and Herzegovina; 4. Proposal for a Law on Working Time, Mandatory Holidays of Mobile Workers and Road Transport Recording Devices (Second Reading) – Proposer of the Council of Ministers of BiH; 5. Proposal for a Law on Amendments and Supplements to the Law on Direct Foreign Investment Policy in Bosnia and Herzegovina (second reading) – Proposer of the Council of Ministers of BiH; 6. Proposal for a law on mine action in Bosnia and Herzegovina (second reading) – Proposer of the BiH Council of Ministers; 7. Proposal for a Law on Amendments and Supplements to the Law on the Fundamentals of Traffic Safety on Roads in Bosnia and Herzegovina (second reading) – Proposer of the Council of Ministers of BiH; 8. Proposal for a Law amending the Law on Classification of Activities in Bosnia and Herzegovina (second reading) – Proposer of the Council of Ministers of BiH; 9. Proposal for a Law on Amendments and Supplements to the Law on the Public Television System of Bosnia and Herzegovina (second reading) – Proposer of the Council of Ministers of BiH; 10. Proposal for a Law on Amendments and Supplements to the Law on the Public Television Service of Bosnia and Herzegovina (second reading) – Proposer of the Council of Ministers of BiH; 11. Proposal for a Law on Amendments and Supplements to the Communication Act (second reading) – Proposer of the Council of Ministers of BiH; 12. Proposal for a Law on Amendments and Supplements to the Election Law of Bosnia and Herzegovina (first reading) – Proposers Dušanka Majkić, Ilija Filipović and Hazim Rančić; 2 13. Proposal for a Law on Amendments and Supplements to the Customs Policy Act of Bosnia and Herzegovina (first reading) – Proposer of the Council of Ministers of BiH; 14. Proposal for a Law on Amendments and Supplements to the Public Procurement Act (first reading) – Proposer of the House of Representatives; 15. Proposal for a Law on the Promotion of Small and Medium Enterprises and Entrepreneurship in Bosnia and Herzegovina (first reading) – Proposer of the Council of Ministers of BiH; 16. Proposal for a law on the application of the results of deoxyribonucleic acid analysis in court proceedings (first reading) – Proposer of the Council of Ministers of BiH; 17. Proposal for a Law on Amendments and Supplements to the Labour Act in the Institutions of Bosnia and Herzegovina (first reading) – Proposer of the Council of Ministers of BiH; 18. Proposal for a law on the protection of geographical indications (first reading) – Proposer of the Council of Ministers of BiH; 19. Proposal for a Law on the Protection of Topography of Integrated Cars (First Reading) – Proposer of the Council of Ministers of BiH; 20. Proposal for a Law on Industrial Design (First Reading) – Proposer of the Council of Ministers of BiH; 21. Proposal for a Mark Act (first reading) – Proposer of the Council of Ministers of BiH; 22. Pre-accession patent law (first reading) – Proposer of the Council of Ministers of BiH; 23. Proposal for a Law on Amendments and Supplements to the Act on the Protection of Secret Information (First Reading) – Proposer of the Council of Ministers of BiH; 24. Proposal for a revised Bosnia and Herzegovina strategy for the implementation of Annex VII Dayton Peace Accords (the Human Rights and Refugees Act of BiH, No. 01-37-31010 of 15. 2. 2010.; 25. Proposal for a strategy for sports development in Bosnia and Herzegovina – Proposer of the Council of Ministers of BiH; 26. Discussion on the Report on the activities of the Council of Europe in 2009 – a proposal to discuss the PSBiH Delegations in the Parliamentary Assembly of the Council of Europe; 27. Report on activities on the project Autoput in Corridor Vc and Plan of the following activities (material of the Ministry of Communications and Transport of BiH); 28. Report on the work of the parliamentary military commissioner for the October-December 2009 period (major military commissioner material); 29. Report on the work of the Citizens' Appeals Committee on the work of police officers in BiH police bodies for the period September-December 2009. (species Committee material, issue 03-50-1-60-6-210 of 27. 1. 2010.; 30. Proposed measures to improve business conditions in agricultural production and the food industry of Bosnia and Herzegovina (BiH Council of Ministers Act No 05-28-2110 of 8. 1. 2010.; 31. Giving consent to ratification of the Treaty between Bosnia and Herzegovina and the Republic of Slovenia on Legal Assistance in Civil and Criminal Matters; 32. Giving consent to the ratification of the Protocol between the Council of Ministers of BiH and the Government of the Kingdom of Saudi Arabia on the mutual replacement of real estate - land for the construction of diplomatic and consular representations in Sarajevo and Riyadh; 33. Giving consent to the ratification of the Credit Agreement between Bosnia and Herzegovina and the Kuwaitian Fund for Arab Economic Development – Project Autocesta Kakanj – donji Gračanica; 3 34. Approving the ratification of the Air Transport Agreement between the Council of Ministers of Bosnia and Herzegovina and the Government of the Arab Republic of Egypt; 35. Approving the ratification of the Air Traffic Agreement between Bosnia and Herzegovina and the Syrian Arab Republic; 36. Giving consent to the ratification of the Agreement between the Council of Ministers of BiH and the Government of the Republic of Moldova on the mutual abolition of the visa regime for holders of diplomatic and official passports; 37. Giving consent to ratification of the Agreement between Bosnia and Herzegovina and the Republic of India on mutual legal assistance in criminal matters; 38. Giving consent to the ratification of the Agreement between the Council of Ministers of BiH and the Government of Montenegro on the transport of passengers and freight in international road transport; 39. Giving consent to the ratification of the loan agreement between Bosnia and Herzegovina and the European Bank for Reconstruction and Development for the Mahovljanska Loop project; 40. Giving consent to the ratification of the Funding Agreement and the project between KfW, Frankfurt in Majna and Bosnia and Herzegovina, represented by the Ministry of Finance and Treasury, as well as the Federation of Bosnia and Herzegovina, represented by the Federal Ministry of Finance, and the Municipality of Bihac (the Agency for the Implementation of the Project) – Collection and Treatment of Waste Waters, Bihac; 41. Giving consent to ratification of the Agreement on Air Traffic between the Council of Ministers of BiH and the Government of the Russian Federation; 42. Giving consent to the ratification of the Memorandum of Understanding between the Federal Defence Minister and the Sports of the Republic of Austria, the Council of Ministers of BiH, the Government of the Republic of Croatia, the Government of the Kingdom of Denmark, the Ministry of Foreign Affairs of the Republic of France, the Government of the Republic of Hungary, the Government of the Republic of Macedonia, the Government of the Kingdom of the Netherlands, the Government of the Kingdom of Norway, the Government of the Republic of Poland, the Government of the Swiss Confederation, the Government of the Republic of Turkey, the Government of the United Kingdom of Great Britain and the United Kingdom and the Government of the United States of America concerning cooperation in the work of the Centre for Peace Support Operations in Bosnia and Herzegovina. This is a harmonised agenda for the House of Peoples Colleges. Is anyone answering for a word? Is there a proposal for changes and additions? Mr. Šaraba. Here you go.
ParlaMint-BA_2010-04-09-0.u7286	Thank you, Mr. Chairman. Respected and respected colleagues, respected representatives of the Council of Ministers, distinguished guests, in accordance with Article 59. I propose that the Rules of Procedure of the People of the Parliamentary Assembly of BiH be placed in the agenda as 'Determining guidelines for action to temporary delegations participating in international meetings'. 4 The main reason why I decided to propose this item of the agenda at today's session was to discuss the session of the Joint Commission on Defence and Security of the Report on the participation of the BiH interim delegation in Tirana at a conference dedicated to strengthening security co-operation, with the aim of early accession by the EU and Southeast European countries. Namely, that report was not accepted at the Defence and Security Commission meeting for the basic reason why the members of this delegation who participated in this conference did not agree and did not reach an agreement on the text and the declaration prior to its signing, as the Kosovo delegation also participated in this conference. Since the issue of the work of permanent delegations in BiH has been governed by the rules of procedure and this issue of the participation of temporary delegations is unregulated, and with the following facts I presented, it is unambiguous that this issue of temporary delegations leaving for the conference should be regulated. It is undeniable that the decision on the participation of MPs and delegates at international meetings is taken by the Joint College, but remains open to resolving this issue, and in this direction it is necessary to draw appropriate conclusions so that in the future they do not come to situations that members of delegations after the unsettled positions of all participants in front of BiH come to a situation to sign or not sign a document. In that direction, I suggest that we put this point on the agenda and make the right conclusions after the debate. Thank you.
ParlaMint-BA_2010-04-09-0.u7287	Thank you very much. The College of the Peoples believes that this initiative should be referred to the Joint College before it even goes to the House of Peoples in order to agree on further technology, that is, the process of considering this very important issue, so that these things do not happen. Mr. Šarab, I don't know if you agree. Thank you very much. Is there any other suggestions for changing and supplementing the agenda? If not, I find that we have adopted the proposed agenda. Before we go to dots, two just information. At 12.45, there'll be a break for the juma, since it's Friday, and we'll continue at 1400 hours, maybe just before we get there... If... today we can't exhaust the whole agenda, we agreed to go with those dots as it is in order, by delaying, possibly interrupting the session and continuing it on April 19th. We also agreed that no matter what agenda point we came to today to make these decisions on ratification of all these agreements, so that this would not be due to delays. That's two information. We'll do our best if we can finish it all today. If not, we'll continue 19. Moving to point one. 5 Ad. 1. Answers to Legislative Questions and New Legislative Questions Answers to the delegation's questions were raised: delegate Ivo Miro Jović from the Council of Ministers to question at the 39th session, also at the 42nd session, at the 43rd session, and another question at the 43rd session; delegate Dušanka Majkić received an answer to the question asked at the 42nd session of the Ministry of Security, at the 38th session of the BiH Prosecutor's Office; delegate Hilmo Neimarlija received an answer at the 19th session of the Federal Ministry of Environment and Tourism; delegate Hazim Rančić received answers... to three questions asked at the 42nd session and asked to the 39th session; delegate Drago Ljubičić received an answer to the question asked at the 40th session; delegate Alma Čolo received answers to the question asked at the 43nd session and delegate Mladen Ivanić was asked to answer the question asked at the 42nd session of the House of Nations. Are delegates satisfied with the answers to questions? Let's take it in a row. Ivo Miro Jović, questioned at the 39th session, 42nd and two questions at the 43rd session. Here you go, Mr. Ivo. Ivo Miro
ParlaMint-BA_2010-04-09-0.u7289	Thank you very much, Mr. President. I welcome you, Mr President, to the honourable fellow envoys of our home, representatives of the Council of Ministers, and everyone present today to this session of ours. I got an answer to the question I asked, as you read it yourself, January 21st, which was two addresses. This is according to the Federation government and the Federation's Attorney General, and the issue was in terms of the distribution of apartments from the JNA military fund, which was allocated to the services of the emerging defence ministries after the war. I'm staying a little confused by the answer from two of these institutions. The D.A. replied that all those provisions were passed in '92, '93. And '94. and in the follow-up until 1999, they had to stop, so that housing rights could only be obtained by 16 December 2000. However, in response to the Federation Service, which says that the apartments available to the former Federal Defence Ministry, now to the Federation Government, the Federation's Joint Affairs and Bodies Service have been excluded and are not considered in accordance with the provisions of the Return Act, assigned and sale of apartments, so it confuses me, I don't know who is assigned, who is available to them, and I will remind you that according to this information I received, it is 15,179 apartments. No, I asked this question by chance, because if there's anywhere in this community that people are damaged and that with various machinations of a particular category and people have acquired two or more tenant rights, then that's this area. All I can finally say is, my answers are available to everyone, and I am totally dissatisfied with the answer and I believe that I will take some other actions, not ask any more questions on this subject. I hope there are other ways to solve this problem in this country. My second question at our home session on 9 March, when it comes to the meaning of our Council of Ministers and Ministry: 'How respected was the decision on the conditions and manner of admission of trainees to the seventh stage of professional training in employment in 2008 and 2009. A year?' I thank all six of you who have worked hard, made up a common response and passed on. I can only be encouraged that a large number of ministries, in fact, mostly all ministries have respected or are already under way for various reasons and justified reasons and want to behave according to their own decisions. However, as usual, there is one ministry that is state-owned and that respects nothing, not even this. It's the Foreign Ministry, so I'm not surprised they didn't answer. I guess he'll give in the next term. Of all the addresses I've addressed, I've got one, and it'd be better if I didn't get that answer. I got it, imagine, from the Department of Public Relations of the RAC. It's not a relationship to Miri Jović, it's a relationship to this high house. Anyway, there was room for an answer here, at least, a deputy, if not a director. I'm not a journalist and I'm not even vain. But let's respect each other and this is unprecedented. What's contained, and that's the key thing, is more than embarrassing. The cancer that should handle this problem, as much as it does, speaks about respecting the legality of the work. In the answer he told me, not to confuse me, but I simply can't understand that there is still someone who wants and wants to work professionally, and he brought me more doubt than I had, but what I asked was a question. In fact, I'm comfortable with the fact that in 1971 this was founded... as the Radio City of Sarajevo and that it was assigned to that frequency and that they're doing it today. And in particular, distinguished colleagues who participated in the previous assembly of the BiH Parliament, I would remind you that in 2004, we passed a Law on the Public TV System in which no word mentions any Radio 202. But the RAC responds that the Agency has verified it as a technical annex, the work of this institution, and as it is part of the Public TV system, you know, you have no word in this law about this broadcaster, but for the RAC it... Public TV system. And so this station, they say, did not go through the process of a license competition. So this is a nice answer for all of them, who say when we ask the question of the equality of the people and that in this country it is necessary, in order to preserve national identity through culture, tradition and language, and the Hrvat should necessarily have their own radio channel, the answer is very common – we have no money. I'm, like, really worried or curious about how something that doesn't exist is getting into the law. It's been working for six years and nobody cares. As the people say, I am having an affair with each other. And I've calculated, like, six million marks so far spent! So I'm satisfied, I have to say, with this answer because it opened my eyes. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-BA_2010-04-09-0.u7290	Thank you very much. Delegate Dušanka Majkić. Here you go.
ParlaMint-BA_2010-04-09-0.u7291	Thank you very much. Dear colleagues and colleagues, respected present, I have received answers to two questions. So the first question is about a number of questions raised at the 38th session of 13. 11th and I don't think there was one of those Home interventions that we agreed here to urinate all the missing answers, I would probably never get an answer to this question. So, the issue was addressed to the BiH Prosecutor's Office and these were really issues, we remember in the media that the story of how against several persons from BiH's business, political and religious life was after an affair published by individual media, and after the publication of a map of a well-bound and dangerous mob terrorist organization, I wanted to see what the 7 Prosecution in that segment had done and whether the information obtained from the OHR's analytical team would be verified by the prosecution under the legal criteria, and whether the analytical team of OHR functions outside the legal authority with the help of foreign prosecutors in the BiH Prosecutor's Office, etc. And you saw the answer I got, practically, I didn't get any. A short time ago, counterpart Jović said about the relationship: the answer to the RAK issue is not an answer to it as a delegate, but rather a relationship to the Parliamentary Assembly. Here, I can not repeat a single word to say the same thing that the prosecution's relationship to my questions is not a relationship to me or to the political option from which I come, or to the people from whom I come, but rather a relationship to the Parliamentary Assembly. And I'm really disgusted, but I guess there's going to be a chance to talk about it when we discuss the work of the BiH Prosecutor's Office. The second is the question I got from the Foreign Affairs Service. I'm happy with the answer, but I'm scared of content. You have seen that during 2009, the Service took measures towards foreigners in 1,062 cases, that 474 solutions were made on the banning of foreigners from the country, that 530 decisions were taken on the cancellation of visa-free and temporary stay, 36 decisions on the cancellation of permanent residence and 22 foreigners who were forced away. The alarmantan data suggests that the work of the Foreign Affairs Service has so far brought 11 people who are a threat to public order and national security, of whom the BiH Court of Justice has returned BiH's citizenship to two persons. It is truly amazing that someone who has been declared a threat to national security is released. Either someone didn't do a good job or he was the one who did his grade or the court who made that decision. Five people are away from BiH, four people are under the supervision of the Immigration Centre. You can see from which countries these people come: Algeria, Iraq, Syria, Tunisia, Morocco, Bahrain. The following information also draws attention to the fact that the Foreign Affairs Service has requested security checks for foreigners in the process of resolving foreign status issues from the Security Intelligence Agency as well as other security services for the purpose of determining the reason for BiH's security. Based on the data provided by security services, foreign citizens have been passing through official records due to non-compliance with public order, i.e. order and regulations in BiH, and are being found to be a threat to national security in connection with organised crime related to terrorist activities as well as other acts for which they have been declared a threat to national security. Thanks to whoever answered, but I expect the other security agencies to do the job that's coming from this. Thank you.
ParlaMint-BA_2010-04-09-0.u7292	Thank you very much. Delegate Hilmo Neimarlija. Here you go.
ParlaMint-BA_2010-04-09-0.u7293	Thank you, Chairman. Gentlemen chairman, fellow delegates, guests, at our 22nd session. Seven. In 2008, I referred two questions to the Federation Government concerning the issue of an ecological authorisation for the work of the “Prevent” in the High and for the conduct of inspection services against the violation of elementary norms, and of legal norms, and these, to say, which belong to these international conventions which BiH is a signator, which concerns environmental protection in the case of “Prevent“ and this is addressed to 22. Seven. 2008 with an explanation, of course. At the session of our 8th home, held on 23rd. 2. In 2010, I addressed to the Ministry of Environment and Tourism and the Ministry of Agriculture, Forestry and Water Management of the Federation of BiH more precisely defined questions about these work permits "Prevent", how they were obtained and on the basis of which the guarantee will respect the law in the use of these permits and what it seems to be due to violations of these standards in production processes and... waste in "Prevention". And believe it or not, I got an answer from the Ministry of Environment and Tourism on the question I asked in 2008 but by misinterpreting the question. And I didn't get an answer to a question two years ago, especially I didn't get an answer to a question that I just asked again and directed to the Ministry of the Environment. I got such an unserious answer based on the false interpretation of my question two years ago and with which I can simply say that I am more than disappointed. And I don't want to add to that disappointment the fact that even in the answer, my name didn't say properly, that the wrong person was literally given the answer. And here, for his part, by joining this conclusion by fellow Jović in relation to the RAC, the relationship with Parliament, which is manifested by the MP, so to the representative of the country's highest legislative and representative body, is being held accountable through the Public Relations Service. I would, as a matter of fact, just get to know the Presidency that it has both this elemental bagatelization and the Assembly and our work, not me personally, and that, of course, I will try to ask for more clear and precise answers to my questions, but also an explanation for what I've been trying to do for two years... to get clear answers, and it's not coming after my hand. Thank you.
ParlaMint-BA_2010-04-09-0.u7294	Thank you very much. Delegate Hazim Rančić. Here you go.
ParlaMint-BA_2010-04-09-0.u7295	Thank you very much, Your Honor. Dear colleagues and colleagues, representatives of institutions, I have received an answer to two questions. Regarding one issue, more BiH institutions were required to deliver their answer. Those answers came now, and I was asking the question at the end of January at our session. The issue concerned meeting the requirements of all relevant institutions related to the Roadmap on visa liberalisation for BiH citizens. So my question was current when BiH institutions had 20 days before the arrival of expert commissions that supervised the fulfilment of these conditions, and I wanted to encourage our institutions to possibly if something was not done, and there is time to do so before they arrived and before they submitted the reports. Since that wasn't at the time, they weren't able to answer me orally at the session, I took advantage of the opportunity, so I did that thing at our joint session, and, behold, after a while, they collected a reply from several institutions and delivered it to me. Thank you. It is relatively, therefore not relatively but entirely late for this answer. I hope that after their activities, our overall and evaluations of experts, our citizens will receive visa liberalisation according to their announcements. 9 Of course and the answer shows that our institutions still have activities in this field and that they should continue in continuity. Here's one thing I'm going to say from these answers, for example. These are amendments and additions to Article 38. The law on border control... There's what they need to do, that they'll do it by emergency procedure, so here's hoping they'll do that thing. And I'm not looking for any more answers on this matter. The second answer I received concerns the taking of measures by the Council of Ministers, in particular four competent ministries, which is the Ministry of Finance and Treasury, the Ministry of Foreign Affairs, the Ministry of Justice and the Ministry of Human Rights and Refugees, and as regards the protection of our citizens, the owner of old foreign currency savings in non-resident banks, non-domestic banks. I have already repeatedly insisted on the response and implementation of these activities, and I will really not give up on this, given that the law prescribed the Council of Ministers' obligation in 2006 to have a ruling of the Constitutional Court of 2006 that imposes the obligation on the Council of Ministers to take measures to protect our citizens. Here is the year 2010, so also before 2009, we have reached the point that our Council of Ministers adopted the strategy and the modality of how to resolve old foreign exchange savings at the Ljubljana Bank, Invest Bank and other non-domestic banks. So it's the only contribution the Council of Ministers has made in this area, now, for almost four years. And that's one small step, and I think it's also a contribution that they've admitted they've done nothing so far. But I asked them to deliver this strategy to me, because they were constantly calling for that strategy and to give me the answers they had taken from this strategy. This is how I – so I got this strategy like all of you – and when I studied all of this and saw it, I see that they have not yet taken any action from this strategy. In short, they propose to make preparations for these bilateral talks and with the Republic of Serbia, to call on the Interstate Council, to plan talks and hold meetings with both the Republic of Croatia and the Republic of Slovenia, plan all of this, plan. The strategy was adopted in 2009 by 16. Seven, here it is today April 9th, they haven't yet found the means or the strength to make these preparations and schedule these meetings. So I am therefore dissatisfied with this part of the answer, and I will ask through the question that we are properly reported or that I will submit an initiative in which I will ask that we be reported precisely every three months on the measures taken in this strategy that they have adopted. So I'm not giving up on this question. I will ask the Council of Ministers to continue working on this issue. Thank you.
ParlaMint-BA_2010-04-09-0.u7296	Thank you very much. Delegate Drago Ljubičić. Here you go.
ParlaMint-BA_2010-04-09-0.u7297	I thank you, Mr. Chairman. 10 Gentlemen Members of the College, colleagues and colleagues of the House, guests from the Council of Ministers and other guests, asked the question I was partially satisfied with the answer and here I will try to explain it briefly. After writing and talking about the existence of mujahedin and Wahhabi in BiH and their activities that are anti-constitutional and pose a threat to the security of citizens in BiH for a long time, I asked my delegate question for Gornja Maoc in 30.12.2009. The Federal Ministry of Interior's response, in whose jurisdiction is the security situation in the area, clearly shows that the Federal Administration and the Federal Ministry of Interior have been following security issues, under quotes, for the Wahhabi community in the Gornja Maoca area regarding their radical and extremist attitudes and behaviours, according to the response. I suppose the BiH Ministry of Security was also familiar with this issue and I can accept on that side that this ministry was familiar with the existence of such groups, i.e. the existence of such communities. Meanwhile, by the time this response was received, on February 2, 2010, there was an action Light in the village of Gornja Maoca, which arrested seven people. Arrested persons with taken cases with a report on the crimes committed have been handed over to the BiH Prosecutor's Office. In this report, police arrested persons are burdened with serious crimes, which are partly and means of information written and spoken, such as organised crime, the cause of racial and religious hatred, discord and impatience, the threat of territorial integrity, the illicit holding of weapons and explosives, the obstruction of judicial work, the prevention of refugee returns and displaced persons and other acts. We know about the conclusion of the BiH Parliamentary Assembly's House of Representatives on this issue. We know about the BiH Security Ministry's response to the same question. Practically, they didn't answer me. We know that the BiH Prosecutor's Office has left the arrests and that the prosecution has no response to the qualifications that have been placed on the arrests by the Federal Interior Ministry in this report, nor has there, at least for me, an acceptable response to their release. After all, I said a moment ago, there was an action Light. However, she has opened up a lot of questions herself that will likely need to be answered or answered in the coming time. After all that is written and what is said in the means of information and after the action in Gornji Maoci, I will present my personal opinion and my personal position – for me there is no longer a dilemma here that in BiH there are these groups. So there are organizations like this. They are not these groups without an organisation, it is my personal opinion, they are not without financial support, and they may even have political support in certain circles in the Federation of BiH and as such are certainly a threat and a threat to security in BiH. Perhaps, gentlemen, they are also related to the latest developments in the Federation of BiH in terms of rallying and posters for the transition of Orthodox and Catholics to Islam and who knows what after this means what... To shed light and to answer many open questions, related to these groups and individuals in BiH, the intelligence agency, SIPA and all other police structures in BiH, the Prosecutor's Office and the Court of BiH have been taking the exam for a long time, but I also personally think BiH politicians. Given everything, I think there was enough reason for me to ask this question and refer it to the BiH Ministry of Security. After the action Light in Upper Maoca, I hope that 11 of the BiH Prosecutor's Office and the BiH Ministry of Security will get a complete and complete answer, which means that in this second part of my question, I am not satisfied. I can only accept the first part that the Ministry was aware that there were such groups and organizations. Thank you.
ParlaMint-BA_2010-04-09-0.u7298	Thank you. Delegate Alma Čolo. Here you go.
ParlaMint-BA_2010-04-09-0.u7299	Thank you, Chairman. Dear colleagues and respected present, representatives of the resolution ministries, media and other institutions, I asked the question: 'How long, on average, civil proceedings at the courts in BiH, for the reason of respecting the European Convention on Human Rights, which in Article 6 guarantees the right to a fair trial, and which in itself guarantees a court procedure that should be completed within a reasonable period, because BiH is obliged under the European Convention to guarantee citizens the trial within a reasonable time." I am pleased with the answer and thank the Ministry of Justice (representing Deputy Minister Srđan Arnaut), I think the answer is comprehensive and that you have delivered the answer very quickly. But I can't help but comment, because there are some things that are very indicative. It is interesting that courts in the Federation, such as cantonal courts in Zenica, Mostar and Travnik, end litigation procedures very quickly, especially in the second instance of litigation, end for up to two years. There are no procedures that last over two years, no procedures that last over three years. It's the same with RS. The courts in Doboj, the Cantonal Court in Banja Luka, are doing very well. But I asked the question because I know that the Cantonal Court in Sarajevo has long led the proceedings in litigation proceedings and is a very worrying situation in this court, because there are many cases here that last for more than one year, which last for more than two to three years and that last for more than three years. There's scary numbers here. In all courts, the largest number of cases ends in the first year, only Sarajevo ends in the first year, and a much larger or double number ends in over two years, over three years, so I think the High Judicial and Prosecutorial Council and the Justice Ministry should take care of this. What is the reason for this situation in Sarajevo? Because after all, Sarajevo is the capital of BiH. Is there a problem with leadership? Is the issue in the number of judges in the Cantonal Court in Sarajevo or is the problem in treating the norm by judges. Do some judges at the Cantonal Court in Sarajevo so easily not have to respect the court's norm, because we know that everyone has a standard in all BiH courts. And once again, I thank the Ministry for a very quick answer. Thank you.
ParlaMint-BA_2010-04-09-0.u7300	Thank you. 12 Delegate Mladen Ivanić had to leave the session briefly and said he was satisfied with the answer. Delegate Božo Ljubić is not here, so we will ask him at the next session. Any new delegate questions? Here's Adem.
ParlaMint-BA_2010-04-09-0.u7301	Since you didn't call me, I got an answer to one question that was asked exactly two years ago, less one day, 10. 4. In 2008. ... That answer is groundless, because in the meantime, let me remind you, it was just a request to amend the Excise Act, especially on fried coffee, on ethanol as a repromatter and on tobacco processing. In the meantime, we changed the Excise Act, removed this damage, because people in us couldn't deal with coffee roasting because they paid for the excise twice. Remove this other damage to ethanol. Now the people who are importing it give the bank a guarantee, they had to pay the excise duty as if they were importing whiskey, and then they waited for the control to get to the evidence of whether they used it, and the controls were in three years. So you can imagine how much damage that was!? And here today, we need to adopt the Tobacco Act, which is the first assumption that this great damage, which this country has, because the cigarette deficit, is that these two...110 million marks last year. So the answer doesn't make any sense, we did that thing right. Thank you.
ParlaMint-BA_2010-04-09-0.u7302	There was obviously a minor misunderstanding here, because this is the answer to the question that was asked at the joint session and that's why he wasn't here.
ParlaMint-BA_2010-04-09-0.u7303	No, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no,
ParlaMint-BA_2010-04-09-0.u7304	Well, here's your statement, but it wasn't in preparation, so I apologize. Now we have delegate questions. Božo Rajić, I think. It's not. Here's Alma, so Hazim, then Ivo.
ParlaMint-BA_2010-04-09-0.u7305	I have a brief question, too, to the High Court and Prosecutor's Council: "Can prosecutors, whose one or more indictments end in a liberating verdict that is confirmed and in the appeal procedure, be candidates for the election of more office in BiH courts and prosecutors?" 13 I ask this question because in the media I see some prosecutors who have acquittals, who have been confirmed in senior courts, and candidates are for the Court of Justice of BiH and mention a case of the prosecutor in the case of the murder of Mr Joza Leutar, Dragan Stupar. He, after his indictment was dropped at the Cantonal Court, was appointed prosecutor in the federal prosecutor's office, so he was promoted. And if this situation didn't happen again, here's the question I'm asking the High Court and Prosecutor's Council. Thank you.
ParlaMint-BA_2010-04-09-0.u7306	Okay, thank you.
ParlaMint-BA_2010-04-09-0.u7307	I know the law isn't forbidden.
ParlaMint-BA_2010-04-09-0.u7308	Delegate Hazim Rančić, delegate Ivo Miro Jović.
ParlaMint-BA_2010-04-09-0.u7309	Thank you very much. So my question is: "When will the Office for Auditing BiH institutions carry out the review of the Elektroprenos BiH, Elektroprenos BiH –AD Banja Luka and submit this report to the Parliamentary Assembly of BiH?" Reason: The BiH electrotransmission was registered as a legal entity on 1 March 2006 with 100% state capital. The company's board of directors has asked the BiH Institutions Audit Office to carry out a review, but they have not done so yet. Inadmissible for four years, therefore, none of the competent institutions have audited the business of the company, nor have the competent institutions a report on the business of the company. It is necessary to carry out an audit and report on this to the BiH Parliamentary Assembly. And I have an initiative related to the work of the Council of Ministers and the implementation of activities to protect our citizens who have old foreign currency savings in non-domestic banks. It reads: "It is the responsibility of the BiH Council of Ministers to submit every three months a report to the BiH Parliamentary Assembly on the implementation of measures in the Strategy and the mode of resolution of old foreign exchange savings at the Ljubljanska Banka, Invest Banka Belgrade and other non-domestic banks." Therefore, in an explanation, the BiH Council of Ministers adopted the above-mentioned strategy on 16 July 2009,... but did not start implementing measures, and they were already late, because since 2006, they have been obliged to do so, but unfortunately do not implement the measures provided for in this strategy. As it is an important issue of protecting our citizens and their rights, it is necessary for the Council of Ministers to report to the Parliamentary Assembly of BiH three months on the implementation of the said strategy. That's it, thank you. 14
ParlaMint-BA_2010-04-09-0.u7310	Okay. We're going to forward the question, and we're going to see this initiative on the College, and we're going to put it on the agenda next time, possibly, at this point. Here's Ivo Miro Jović. Ivo Miro
ParlaMint-BA_2010-04-09-0.u7311	"Thank you again very much. I have two short questions. But before I ask the question (I don't know, there's no room in the agenda for what I'm about to say), in any case I want to find out that this is the House of Peoples and three clubs and we have a modern technique, and it's nice and I support it, but I have an exceptional violation of the technical service that there is no Croatian language on the notice, and it's not correct. I'd ask the president to ask technical services to shut down until it's straightened out. And I'm going to ask questions. Federal TV Sarajevo hasn't answered my last inquiry, so I repeat the question: "Whose property has Radio 202 and what law does it do? And we heard just now that the Regulatory Agency is responding to work under the Public TV System Act. Who approved this frequency? Here, we've heard that RAC has done it generously against the law. Who's funding the work and how much is it?' Since I know almost all these answers, I want to force those who are working against the law to answer me why they're doing it. The second question I would like to send is to the Ministry of Affairs of the Federation of BiH, the Office for Affairs of the Federation of BiH and the Federal Institute of PIO/MIO: 'How is it possible to exercise discrimination against the officers of the Croatian Council of Defence, and here we are on the anniversary of the formation of this defence system, meaning against the Croatian Council of Defense officers about the acquisition of the legal rights of pensioners in relation to the officers of the BiH Army? Namely, the officers of the Croatian Defence Council who have acquired the right to retirement are not allowed to use under the same circumstances as members of the BiH Army. The most drastic example is the use of General Rasim Delić's pension which uses those rights, and a large number of HVO members are disabled' So much.
ParlaMint-BA_2010-04-09-0.u7312	Thank you. Who's on the phone? Drago Ljubičić, then Slobodan Šaraba.
ParlaMint-BA_2010-04-09-0.u7313	I thank you, Mr. Chairman. 15 My question is, in a certain way, related to the previous question I referred to the Ministry of Security and I refer this question to the Ministry of Security: '1. Is the BiH Ministry of Security familiar with the posters before Easter, a Christian holiday, in 2010 appeared at Catholic and Orthodox religious facilities in the Federation of BiH, which the non-Muslims are calling for to move to Islam? 2. Is the BiH Ministry of Security familiar with the stands organised on the subject in some places of the Federation of BiH? Who is behind such hurtful posters and stands, and what have they done about it? Explanation: Before Easter 2010, at religious sites of Catholic and Orthodox religions in the Federation of BiH, posters appeared with an offensive and provocative text calling on non-Muslims to the stands and to discuss the transition to Islam. In the Serbian and Croatian people, at least based on the reactions that followed, this was understood as an insult and a provocation but also an invitation that, in my opinion, is extremely dangerous for BiH and BiH. I expect a reaction from the competent institutions regarding these developments in the Federation of BiH and a written response. Thank you.
ParlaMint-BA_2010-04-09-0.u7314	Thank you very much. Mr. Slobodan Šaraba. Here you go.
ParlaMint-BA_2010-04-09-0.u7315	And of course, at the end of the opposition. Mr. Chairman, distinguished colleagues, so I will first read part of the text in the Rules of Procedure. In Article 146(3) of the Rules of Procedure of the House of Nations, it reads: ‘The answers to delegate questions shall be included in the agenda in the same order as they are set, no later than 30 days after their reference.’ So, I believe that at each of the next sessions, following the reference of our delegates' questions, they should be representatives of the Council of Ministers who should either answer the question or say why they cannot be answered. I have over 10 delegate questions that have not been answered and I really don't know why I didn't get an answer to some of these questions, when these questions can be answered in five minutes. Why did Mr Lujić not answer the question: "What are these persons in BiH who provide operational security services?" Or why did I not get an answer from the Council of Ministers to ask, "When will the work on the reconstruction of the border crossing at Ivanjica begin?" I have long insisted on it, which is a job or a missed job where BiH lost more than 10 million marks, why someone should have responded. Unfortunately, it seems to me that no one has even raised a question of responsibility for why the state has lost 10 million marks, let alone to raise the question, or to get an answer to the question when will it start? From all of this I can only draw the conclusion here that delegate questions are answered selectively. So it seems to me that here, when asked and answered the delegates' questions, the MPs of the Alliance of Independent Social Democrats are asked questions, the ministers of the SDA are responding, or 16 HDZ MPs are asking questions, and the SNSD ministers are responding. So here, it seems to me that we from the opposition don't get answers or that your answers come very, very rarely. Anyway, I'll continue with the delegates' questions, I'll ask them, and at the end of the day, I'll draw the line and see what's below the line. I'm going to ask two delegate questions today. First, I refer to the Council of Ministers and it reads: "Why haven't the rules on the internal organisation and systemization of the three agencies created by the second phase of police reform in BiH been adopted yet? The appointment of the managers of these agencies was in February 2009: The Agency for Forensic Studies, Schooling and Professional Training and Police Support. If it is borne in mind that the draft rules have passed all the necessary procedures and have been delivered to the Council of Ministers in July of the month, then it is quite and completely incomprehensible why they are not adopted until today." I also refer the second question to the Ombudsman for BiH's human rights, which reads: 'What are the reasons why the Ombudsman's Human Rights Institution stated to enter into the process of reviewing the legitimacy of this decision at home, which was reached 22. 1. In 2009, which appointed a member of the National Minority Council in front of Montenegro's national minority?" The House of Peoples of the Parliamentary Assembly adopted a Decision establishing the mandate of a member of the National Minorities Council in BiH in front of the Montenegrin national minority..., and since representatives of the two associations (we were witnesses of this here in Parliament) could not agree, the mandate was divided, so that the representative of one association represents a national minority of half the mandate, and the representative of the second half of the mandate; at the end of the first part of his term, the representative of this first association addressed the letter to the Ombudsman institution for human rights with a request to prevent alleged discrimination, which, on my great surprise, the Ombudsman and accepted, assessed that there was sufficient grounds to initiate the process of reviewing this decision to the People's House of Rights, which aimed only to achieve the best possible satisfaction of both sides. Unfortunately, by including in this case, the Ombudsman has, in my opinion, placed himself on one side, and I therefore ask this question, because it is totally unacceptable, as is the behaviour of the ambassador of Montenegro, Mr Ramiz Bašić, who also ranks in all of this on one side. Thank you.
ParlaMint-BA_2010-04-09-0.u7316	Mrs. Dušanka Majkić.
ParlaMint-BA_2010-04-09-0.u7317	This is just to show that the position is the last, not the opposition, and that's a member of the Kolegijum that's the last. About tolerance so much. I have two questions. One thing I do is I set up the Agency for State Services, and it says, "How many secretaries with special assignments that have expired as directors and deputy directors in BiH institutions? Please specify the names of the institutions, the names of the place and the 17 dates of the term of office. And does the BiH institutions have a director or deputy director who has the status of a civil servant who is not in office,... and on what basis are they not in office? And the second question I refer to the Council of Ministers: "What is currently going on with the formation of the Commission for Property Requests of Refugees and Displaced Persons?" It is known that the Commission for the property requirements of refugees and displaced persons was established by the decision of the 2004 Presidency as a legal follower of the former CRPC, whose exclusive competence was established by a special agreement and was intended to resolve requests for re-examined decisions of the former CRPC. According to its specific nature, this Commission has the character of the Authority of Administration, and each year it shall establish the appropriations necessary for its work and the prescribed compensation for the members of that Commission, i.e. its legal department. The Commission has extended its mandate until 2008 and has normally worked and solved all these requests-related problems and determined the answers to the claims and requests of the Court of Justice of BiH. For unknown reasons, the members of this commission have not been paid a work fee for 2008 and despite the budget's funding being provided. For this reason, the members of the commission filed a complaint to the BiH Court for payment of the corresponding fee, according to a decision by the Council of Ministers that was in force. Although the commission has not completed its work on all cases, it practically stopped working late 2008. Today, we have the situation that more than 250 lawsuits against the Commission's decisions have been brought to the Court of BiH, no doubt indicating the seriousness of this current problem. Practically, we now have a situation that the Court of BiH cannot handle the complaints of the parties, because there is a relevant authority, there is no commission, there is no one to handle this for the preparation and delivery of a response to the suit. This problem is known in public and it is inadmissible that applicants are practically waiting for more than a year for their demands to be resolved, and all for reasons that no new commission has been educated which should, within a reasonable time, complete this important job. Thank you.
ParlaMint-BA_2010-04-09-0.u7318	Thank you very much. This way we've exhausted this agenda point. Moving to point 2. Ad. 2. The adoption of the 43rd session of the House of Peoples Is anyone answering their word? He's not answering. Can we adopt the 43rd session? Who Is For? Is there anyone “against ”? 18 “Contained ”? There isn't. I understand that we unanimously adopted the 43rd session of the House of Peoples. Moving to point three, Ad. 3. Joint Commission Report of both homes on reaching agreement on the identical text of Bosnia and Herzegovina tobacco law
ParlaMint-BA_2010-04-09-0.u7321	Thank you, Chairman. So there's not much to say. The Joint Commission has accepted the arguments of this House why it should cost at least 50% in Article 32 and not at least 60%.
ParlaMint-BA_2010-04-09-0.u7322	Okay, thank you very much. We're voting on the Joint Commission's report. Who Is For? Is there anyone “against ”? There isn't. "Contained"? There isn't. I find that the Joint Commission's report on the alignment of the text of the BiH tobacco law has been adopted. Moving to the fourth item of the agenda: Ad. 4. Proposal for a Law on Working Time, Mandatory Holidays of Mobile Workers and Road Transport Recording Devices (Second Reading) – Proposer: Council of Ministers of BiH 19 The second reading discusses amendments and votes on the bill. You have received a report on the Commission's proposal for a law on foreign and trade policy, customs, traffic and communication. The Commission adopted the draft law with two amendments. The House of Representatives passed this law with one amendment. I give my word to the chairman of this committee, Alma Čolo. Here you go.
ParlaMint-BA_2010-04-09-0.u7324	I'll do it briefly, the chairman, given the scale of the agenda. You've received this report. amandman II. is identical to the amandman adopted in the House of Representatives, which is that this deadline for the introduction of digital tachographs is moved to 16. Six. 2010. It's a motion from the Resolute Ministry, because it's already timed 16. 3. passed, as was originally the case in this law, and amandman I., which was not adopted in the House of Representatives, but was adopted at the Ministry's intervention, is actually a technical repair of Article 17. So I don't think there's a problem with the two amendments being adopted and we're going to get in line. Thank you.
ParlaMint-BA_2010-04-09-0.u7325	Thank you very much. I'm opening a debate. If no one answers for the word I put on... Mr Ivo Miro Jović. Here you go. Ivo Miro
ParlaMint-BA_2010-04-09-0.u7326	I can see that, without substance, the Honorable President, I am speaking. And in the last session, I said and pointed out the fact that we did not get this law in Croatian. And when we were on this committee, I pointed out the same thing. I see in the material that this practice continues to be carried out. I mean, I don't know what way it is and how to point it out to the proposings and to those who deliver us to the law procedure, and taught by negative experiences when it comes to whether or not something is written in the Croatian language in the law, I think this is really unwise to point it out, but I had to say this.
ParlaMint-BA_2010-04-09-0.u7327	It's okay to point. Here, we can conclude today that unless we have these proposals in Croatian or any other language that we do not include in the agenda, but now we adopt it, if you agree. Here, who's "for"? Is there anyone “against ”? There isn't. "Contained"? I find that we have passed the Working Time Act of Mobile Workers and Road Transport Recording Devices. 20 Since this law has been adopted in a different text than the House of Representatives, we must form a committee to bring the text of the law into line. Does Dom have a proposal for members of this committee? Here, shall we go before the Club of Serbs Drago Ljubičić?
ParlaMint-BA_2010-04-09-0.u7328	Mr. Šaraba.
ParlaMint-BA_2010-04-09-0.u7329	Šaraba, okay. Hrvat?
ParlaMint-BA_2010-04-09-0.u7330	Mrs. Čolo.
ParlaMint-BA_2010-04-09-0.u7331	All right, come on, Čolo. Hrvat? The Hrvat club?
ParlaMint-BA_2010-04-09-0.u7332	Well, I'm a little embarrassed with the fact that we're members of this committee of my colleagues, Ljubić and I, Ljubić is gone.
ParlaMint-BA_2010-04-09-0.u7333	So it's a grain.
ParlaMint-BA_2010-04-09-0.u7334	It's a grain. All right, Branko Zrno. We vote for this committee. Who is the “for ” alignment? Is there anyone “against ”? There isn't. "Contained"? There isn't. I find that we have elected members of this committee: Slobodan Šaraba, Branko Zrno and Alma Čolo. Moving to the 5th item of the agenda: Ad. 5. Proposal for a Law on Amendments and Supplements to the Law on Direct Foreign Investment Policy in Bosnia and Herzegovina (second reading) – Proposer: Council of Ministers 21 The second reading discusses amendments and votes on the bill. You have received a report from the Commission on foreign and trade policy, customs, traffic and communication. The Commission adopted the draft law with two amendments. The amendments adopted are not the same as in the House of Representatives. The House of Representatives passed this law with two amendments. I give my word to the chairman of this committee, Alma Čolo. Here you go.
ParlaMint-BA_2010-04-09-0.u7336	Thank you, Chairman. amandman II. which was adopted in our commission is identical to the amandman in the House of Representatives. This is the amendment relating to investments that can exceed 51%, except in public information companies. There's been a big debate. We had representatives of the resolution ministry on the Commission, as it came from the resolution ministry, a lot of materials that indicated that it should be allowed to invest in military production to be greater than 51%. Although the predstavnički of Representatives accepted fully, all voted in favour of this amendment, so this amendment passed on to the Commission, along with a clear explanation of the representatives of the resolution ministry, Mr Izetbegović, who is here today. Second, amandman I. is not identical to the amandman adopted in the House of Representatives. It is, in fact, an appropriate technical repair on the proposal of MPs, Božo Ljubić, who proposed that this Article 2 be changed, that these terms be agreed. The ministry has agreed to this amendment, so with these two amendments, this law has been passed on to our commission.
ParlaMint-BA_2010-04-09-0.u7337	Thank you very much. I'm opening a debate. Zoran Koprivica. Here you go.
ParlaMint-BA_2010-04-09-0.u7338	Thank you, Mr. Chairman. I won't talk long about this proposal. I am only taking the opportunity to support the adoption and adoption of this law, i.e. we support this report by our commission. It is indisputable that we must form a Commission for Harmonization. I suggest Mr. Slobodan Šarab in front of our club on this committee to bring the text of this law into line. Foreign investment in a significant decline in BiH has been reported to be... around 40% lower in 2009 compared to 2008. And these improvements in the text of the law will certainly allow certain barriers that exist in the current text of this law to be removed. 22 So, we support the adoption of this law and I propose to this committee Mr. Šarab. Thank you.
ParlaMint-BA_2010-04-09-0.u7339	If no one answers their word anymore, I'll put them to the vote. Who Is For? Who Is “against ”? "Contained"? There isn't. I agree that we unanimously adopted the Law on Amendments and Supplements to the Law on Foreign Direct Investment Policy in BiH. Since this law has been adopted in a different text than the House of Representatives, we must form this committee. We already have a Slobodan Šarab, let's see the Croatian Club.
ParlaMint-BA_2010-04-09-0.u7340	Same as before.
ParlaMint-BA_2010-04-09-0.u7341	Branko Zrno, good.
ParlaMint-BA_2010-04-09-0.u7342	Mr. Hazim Rančić.
ParlaMint-BA_2010-04-09-0.u7343	Hazim Rančić. We vote on this commission: Slobodan Šaraba, Brano Zrno and Hazim Rančić. Who Is For? Is there anyone “against ”? "Contained"? There isn't. I find that we have chosen the members of this committee, as suggested. Moving to the sixth item of the agenda: Ad. Six. Proposal for a Law on Mine Action in Bosnia and Herzegovina (second reading) – Proposer: Council of Ministers of BiH The second reading discusses amendments and votes on the bill. You have received a Report on the Proposal for a Law of the Joint Commission on Human Rights, Rights of the Child, Youth, Immigration, Refugees, Asylum and Ethics. The Commission adopted the proposal for a law with six amendments 23 which became an integral part of the text of the bill. Four amendments were renewed by delegate Ivo Miro Jović, and three new amendments were submitted by Zoran Koprivica. The House of Representatives passed the law with nine amendments, six amendments adopted on the Joint Commission, three amendments adopted at the House session. I give my word to Zoran Koprivica, whom the Joint Commission has appointed as rapporteur in the House of Peoples. Here you go.
ParlaMint-BA_2010-04-09-0.u7345	Thus, the proposal for a law on anti-mining action has been, as is known, in the procedure in the BiH Parliamentary Assembly since mid-2009. The proposal of the Council of Ministers, the Ministry of Civil Affairs, is in the process: The House of Representatives adopted this law at the 73rd session on 16 and 23 March 2010 in a second reading with six amendments to the Joint Commission on Human Rights Report, as well as three new amendments, new aspects submitted by Lejla Klokić. These amendments are in line with the Ministry of Civil Affairs, as well as donors and representatives of the Demining Commission. Those amendments have been taken over by me, and here I propose today that this house accept them. Also, Mr Ivo Miro Jović has tabled four amendments ahead of us, calling for new aspects. And before us are the possibilities to act as did the House of Representatives, to adopt this report by our committee with these six amendments, the three new amendments that I have taken over from Lejla Klokić and as a second possibility to consider, i.e., to come forward by amendments, new amendments that, referring to new aspects, Mr Ivo Miro Jović proposed to this House. And finally, if there are different texts, or different amendments, we would like to propose to this committee of reconciliation that would consider... and make a concrete proposal to the House for final adoption. I think that in a concrete case, and after a great deal of effort and almost nine months of persistent attempts to keep this law alive, not to lose a large donor's means of demining, there has finally been one text that is acceptable to all parties. And I therefore propose that this House be declared, means to accept this charter of our commission, to accept these three new amendments that I have proposed, i.e. taken over from the House of Representatives, and to particularly declare Mr Jović's proposed amendments. That's it, Mr. Chairman.
ParlaMint-BA_2010-04-09-0.u7346	Thank you very much. Before I open the debate, I give my word to Ivo Miri Jović. Here you go. Ivo Miro
ParlaMint-BA_2010-04-09-0.u7347	Thank you very much. Guided by practice in countries that are in a similar situation when it comes to mine pollution and in terms of bodies and institutions dealing with demining and 24 by finding and destroying mine-explosive resources, I felt that it was not good for other businesses to give these jobs civil protection. In any case, civil protection has its place and the title civil protection refers to the protection of citizens and material goods. But I don't know how many civil protection institutions, at entity, county and Brcko District, have been trained to do such a professional and important job. However, as Article 26 states, in the final part of the first paragraph, that only those who receive accreditation will be able to do so, in that case, and in order to speed the adoption of such an important law, I would need to say that amandman I., amandman III.. and amandman iv.e. I'm withdrawing, so with this explanation, let's plead amandman II.. amandman II. is quite a logical request I have made, because Article 12(2) says that BIHAMK headquarters, in fact BH MAC, forgive me, and federal headquarters are in Sarajevo and that the seat of RS entities is in Banja Luka. It seems to me that BH MAC headquarters is in Sarajevo and that the federal headquarters is in Mostar. Because it wouldn't require any financial additional funding, because Mostar already has a regional office. And how in line with the solutions offered by this law, these regional offices in one good part are experiencing transformation, it seemed to me that due to the infection of the mines of the southern part of BiH, and I said already there are offices that are, I must say, free of charge, because in BiH institutions, and if they stay in Sarajevo, over 240 thousand are given for rented space per year. So, I repeat, I advocate that BH MAC be in Sarajevo, federal headquarters in Mostar, and RS in Banja Luka. That is the purpose of my amandman II..
ParlaMint-BA_2010-04-09-0.u7348	Thank you very much. The legislator of this law will eventually declare this new amendment. Anybody in front of the promoter? Let's see. Here you go.
ParlaMint-BA_2010-04-09-0.u7349	Mr. Chairman, gentlemen, I have nothing to add to what MP Ivo Miro Jović said, apart from this financial aspect, the fact that when the BH MAC issue and the entity office together we rented a space in Sarajevo and I am sure that the price that was said about 250 thousand marks would be 50% lower when it comes to Sarajevo. Because we're going to have to be in the rented space again in Sarajevo. And when it comes to the profession, I don't see the problem.
ParlaMint-BA_2010-04-09-0.u7350	Okay, thank you very much. I'm opening a debate. Alma Čolo. Here you go.
ParlaMint-BA_2010-04-09-0.u7351	Wait a minute, Mr. Gavran, if I'm not mistaken, he's a representative of the BH MAC, and we don't have a representative of the Resolute Ministry of Civil Affairs, which is an official proposal, in fact 25 of the Council of Ministers. I'd like to hear their attitude. I mean, really, because you weren't working on making this bill.
ParlaMint-BA_2010-04-09-0.u7352	I have to say, I just don't know who's familiar with it, that Minister Nović is absent today, justifiably absent, and that he has authorized me to be in front of this ministry today at this session. I was officially called and authorized to be here.
ParlaMint-BA_2010-04-09-0.u7353	All right, all right, thanks. Anyone else answer for a word? If he doesn't answer his word, we approach the vote. First we declare the amendments of delegates Ivo Mire Jović. We find that he withdrew Amendments I, III. and IV. We vote on amandman II.. Who is "for" this amendment? Eight. Right? Who Is “against ”? "Contained"? I too am “abstained. ” Four "abstained" votes. I find this amendment has passed. We are now going to declare Mr. Zoran Koprivica's amendments. These are the amendments from the House of Representatives, right? We can vote on everything at once, all three amendments. Who Is For? Is there anyone “against ”? "Contained"? With one vote "abstained", I find that the amendments by the delegates Zoran Koprivica have been adopted. Now we're voting on the bill. Who Is For? Is there anyone “against ”? With one vote "abstained", I realize that we have passed the Anti-minal Act in BiH. Since it wasn't adopted in the same text, we are re-forming the Commission to bring the text of the law into line. What does the Srbin Club say? ___________(?) Mr. Koprivica Zoran. 26 The hive, well, logically. A Hrvat?
ParlaMint-BA_2010-04-09-0.u7355	Mr. Jović.
ParlaMint-BA_2010-04-09-0.u7356	Mr. Jović, good.
ParlaMint-BA_2010-04-09-0.u7357	Mr. Hilmo Neimarlija.
ParlaMint-BA_2010-04-09-0.u7358	Neimarlia. We're voting on this committee. Who Is For? Is there anyone “against ”? There isn't. "Contained"? There isn't. I find that we have elected members of the Joint Commission to bring the text of this House of Nations law into line as proposed. Point 7. Ad. Seven. Proposal for a Law on Amendments and Supplements to the Transport Safety Act on Roads in Bosnia and Herzegovina (second reading) – Proposer: Council of Ministers of BiH Since we're close to the break, if we're going to hold up a little longer, let's postpone or if we don't have a debate to end this point too. This is a second reading, a debate is being held on amendments and votes on the bill's proposal. You've received a report from the Commission. The Commission adopted the proposal for a law of 12 amendments. The House of Representatives passed this law with eight amendments. I give my word to the Chairman of the Commission, Alma Čolo.
ParlaMint-BA_2010-04-09-0.u7360	Well, here, I'll try it for a while. A total of 20 amendments have been tabled with the Commission. We only adopted those amendments for which the Ministry of Communications and Transport gave a positive opinion. These amendments have been adopted by the Commission, with some of them being corrected by the Ministry and a correction of these amendments has been proposed, so that the Commission proposes to the House that 27 adopt this law with these 12 amendments and that it be agreed, and this is in line with the relevant ministry. Thank you.
ParlaMint-BA_2010-04-09-0.u7361	One amendment was renewed by delegate Ilija Filipović and four amendments from the Slobodan Šaraba delegation. Here you go, first Ilija Filipović.
ParlaMint-BA_2010-04-09-0.u7362	I'll do it very briefly. So, I think one fact was dropped when the Resort Ministry wrote this act and rejected this amendment of mine. I'm sorry that it wasn't entirely this commission and that I couldn't be the one to explain it, namely, that everyone knows why I wrote this amendment. All persons who use sound signalling and bunkers simultaneously have a SIPA escort. It is abnormal for the speaker of Parliament, the state parliament, regardless of who it is, who does not use it, so when my smallness, Mrs Majkić, is in rotation, does not use the escort of official vehicles. So, I can do it myself, but I won't do it. I think it is far easier to position in this law the right to use all official state vehicles of this level – members of the Presidency, the President of the Council of Ministers and its deputies and members of the BiH Parliamentary Assembly – as it is in all other organised democratic countries. Why? Because this is about protected persons who have the right to use SIPA's vehicles as escorts. I've never asked for it, and I'm never gonna ask for a SIPA vehicle. But I have a vehicle... that the state bought and in which it installed a light-sound signalling in case of a need on the road, no one is wild, but using, so vehicles use protected persons. With these repairs of this Road Safety Act, we are legally putting ourselves in a position to use something we have embedded in vehicles. You have one situation that this at the level of the RS entity is regulated and people who have the power to use signalling, and when they come into the Federation's space pay fines. So we keep saying that something needs to be lifted to state level. We have the Law on road safety at national level, so let's make it uniformly regulated for all those who have rights, there's not a large number. So that's the level I'm talking about: it's the BiH Presidency, it's the BiH Parliament and it's the BiH government. If it doesn't deserve what they have, the Council of Ministers, then as other countries have in the environment, not to mention, from Albania -- I would not be insulting anymore because Albania was not on the tail of events in the Western Balkans -- let's do it in a way that suits this country, because we always say that we want to approach the democratic standards of others. Thank you.
ParlaMint-BA_2010-04-09-0.u7363	Thank you very much. Delegate of the Slobodan Šaraba. 28
ParlaMint-BA_2010-04-09-0.u7364	It's too expensive to use all these SIPA vehicles always accompanied. So this provides the possibility of not spending on SIPA's vehicles.
ParlaMint-BA_2010-04-09-0.u7365	slobodan Šaraba wanted to, and I'd ask if we could.
ParlaMint-BA_2010-04-09-0.u7366	Thank you, Mr. Chairman. So, I'll be brief, the essence of my amendments is to create conditions to form a driver's test agency, because BiH is the only country in which driving exams are organised and conducted by the Ministry of Education. The last case where it tried was in Croatia, but in a short time, after two years, it abolished and returned to control and oversee Croatia's MUP, and organized and implemented by the Croatian Autoclub. So, the goal of my amendments is to form a driver's exam agency to conduct all these tasks in BiH. Thank you.
ParlaMint-BA_2010-04-09-0.u7367	Thank you very much. Here, before we open a public debate, I'd like to interrupt this session anyway, because we have a lot of statements, a lot of votes. We'll continue at 1400 hours. Thank you very much. [[PAUZA]] We're continuing with the 7th point of the agenda. I remind you, it is the Proposal for a Law on Amendments and Supplements to the Law on the Fundamentals of Traffic Safety on Roads to BiH. We've come to a time when I'm giving my word, or I'm opening a debate on this agenda point. Is anyone answering their word? Since no one is answering, we will first declare the amendment of the delegate, Ilija Filipović. Who is the “for” Amendment I? Who Is “against ”? One “against ” and one“ abstention. ” I find that the amandman was adopted with one vote "against" and one vote "abstained". We will now declare the amendments of the Slobodan Šaraba delegates. First we vote on amandman I. 29 Who Is “For ”? Three are "for". Who Is “against ”? ... Four votes "against". Others “abstained. ” The amendment didn't go through. We're going to Amendment II. Who Is For? It's four votes... "for". Who Is “against ”? "Contained"? This amendment didn't go through either. Amendment III. Who Is For? There are four "for" again. ‘Non’? Four. "Contained"? Four. All four at a time. Amendment IV. Who Is For? Same four. Who Is “against ”? Four. Who is “abstained ”? Four. And this amendment has not passed. We're voting on the bill. Who is "for" the bill? Who Is “against ”? One is “against. ” "Contained"? With one "against" and one "abstained", I find that we have passed the Law on Amendments and Supplements to the Law on the Fundamentals of Traffic Safety on the Roads to BiH. Since this law has been adopted in a different text than the House of Representatives, we need to form a Commission to bring the text of the law into line. Any suggestions for members of this committee?
ParlaMint-BA_2010-04-09-0.u7369	From the Hrvat Branko Zrno.
ParlaMint-BA_2010-04-09-0.u7370	Branko Zrno of the Hrvat. The Srbin? ___________) Mr. Šaraba.
ParlaMint-BA_2010-04-09-0.u7371	Nice to Ljubičić you. 30
ParlaMint-BA_2010-04-09-0.u7372	Nice to Ljubičić you. Okay. From the Bošnjak? Alma Čolo, here.
ParlaMint-BA_2010-04-09-0.u7373	Where are you going with the opposition, man?
ParlaMint-BA_2010-04-09-0.u7374	I vote on the composition of this committee. Who Is For? Is there anyone “against ”? "Contained"? Here's unanimous after a short time. Moving to the 8th point of the agenda: Ad. 8. Proposal for a Law amending the Law on Classification of Activities in Bosnia and Herzegovina (second reading) – Proposer: Council of Ministers of BiH The second reading discusses amendments and votes on the bill. You have received the Report on the Proposal for a Law of the Joint Commission on European Integration. The Joint Commission adopted the draft law in the proposed text. The House of Representatives passed this law in the proposed text. I give my word to delegate Ivo Miri Jović, whom the Joint Commission has appointed as rapporteur in the House of Peoples. Here you go, Mr. Jović. Ivo Miro
ParlaMint-BA_2010-04-09-0.u7376	Thank you very much. I really don't have anything to add, this report says everything.
ParlaMint-BA_2010-04-09-0.u7377	Okay, thank you very much. I'm opening a debate. Is anyone answering their word? Nobody's answering. 31 We vote on the Proposal for a Law Who Is “For”? Is there anyone “against ”? There isn't. "Contained"? There isn't. I agree that we unanimously adopted the Law on Amendments to the Law on Classification of Activities in BiH, in the text as it is in the House of Representatives. Moving to the 9th point of the agenda: Ad. Nine. Proposal for a Law on Amendments and Supplements to the Law on the Public Television System of Bosnia and Herzegovina (second reading) – Proposer: Council of Ministers of BiH There is a debate on amendments, a vote on the bill. You have received a report on the Commission's proposal for a law on foreign and trade policy, customs, traffic and communication. The Commission adopted the draft law in the proposed text. The House of Representatives passed this law in the proposed text. I give my word to the chairman of this committee, Alma Čolo. Here you go.
ParlaMint-BA_2010-04-09-0.u7379	The chairman, if you please, of the three laws that follow, means this on the system, on the service and on communication, is concerned with compliance with the Law on Gender Equality. The Commission has adopted this law in the text without amendments. On all three laws there was one amendment by Mr. Slobodan Šaraba to replace the words 'gender sensitive language' with the domestic words 'naturally sensitive language'. The Commission has not accepted this amendment because the Law on Gender Equality has already established such terminology. Although it is not a feature of domestic legislation to use foreign words, we are told that 'gender' means more than 'rod', so we refused that amendment. But here, we're back on all three laws of the same amendment, so I wouldn't again when there are other laws, I won't explain anything further. Thank you.
ParlaMint-BA_2010-04-09-0.u7380	Okay, thank you very much. I give my word to the delegate, Slobodan Šarab, since he has renewed his amendment. Here you go. 32
ParlaMint-BA_2010-04-09-0.u7381	Thank you, Mr. Chairman. So I was really after this amendment phase and considering the law on the committee responsible after the second reading whether to renew the amendment, but then one letter asked me to renew this amendment, and that letter was sent by one of the workers in this Parliament. So one of the lecturers at the secretary of this committee... took his right to express his dissatisfaction with this amendment, which I have submitted, and to prove that this is an impossible and incredible situation that will complicate his work. So, ladies and gentlemen, I believe that politics is being run here, and there are no doctors or officials in this house to run this policy. And initiated by the team, I have submitted this amendment, precisely for those reasons why Mrs. Čolo said, believing that in the laws we should use that language that is understood in Bihac, Sarajevo, Tuzla, Sokoc, Trebinj, and not some expressions that will make someone wonder and ask what they really mean. So I believe that this is fully in line with our language and that by adopting such an amendment, we confirm our language as we speak. That is why I remain firm with these amendments, and I fully express my dissatisfaction with these letters, whom someone takes for granted to express his satisfaction or dissatisfaction with someone's amendment. We are the ones here who need to agree or disagree with someone's amendments, not anyone who sits around and wants to influence the adoption of such or such a solution with their attitude.
ParlaMint-BA_2010-04-09-0.u7382	Thank you very much. Mrs Dušanka Majkić answered the words, then Božo Rajić. Here you go.
ParlaMint-BA_2010-04-09-0.u7383	Well, I don't know how much I'm going to help, and what I'm trying to say. If this were just to appear in these legal definitions, I would accept that Mr. Šaraba is right, and then it would really be easy to replace it in a 'naturally sensitive language'. But I remind you that we have in the institutions and the Federation and the RS Jender Centers, two Jender Centers that are called. And now I've translated these gendarmes that would be called birth-sensitive centers. Well, don't, it would really be... So, given that the word, we said, "gender" implies a broader meaning, given that it has already been involved in the domestic language, since we already use it in different places, I ask you not to make a precedent and to stay, because you know very well what "gender" means. So, if it were just a change in this part of the law and it was no longer mentioned, I would accept that Mr. Šaraba is right. So I don't think we should really touch this.
ParlaMint-BA_2010-04-09-0.u7384	Mr. Božo Rajić. Here you go. 33
ParlaMint-BA_2010-04-09-0.u7385	Maybe it's not common, I only came forward to express my final and sincere and deepest support and gratitude to my colleague Šarab for this amendment, not only because he submitted it but because he kept renewing it. I don't think it's an acceptable explanation that Mrs. Čolo said on behalf of this committee. The commission did not accept the amendment because, for God's sakes, there is in one law this sacrade term. So, it's not like it can be any more generous than this committee, not Alma Čolo. This is not a healthy argument that Mrs. Majkić makes that there are already some Jender centers. We've got implementations, we've got innovations, we've got apps, we've got all these other applications, and if someone forced that language on us by force, and it suppresses our languages that we're born, which we speak and think of in that language, then we'd feel left out, threatened, and I don't know everything we wouldn't be. I strongly support the requirement to start using our own language once in which we were born and in which we think, and to stop using English, of which 90% of us here have no idea what it means. And let this be a start.
ParlaMint-BA_2010-04-09-0.u7386	Thank you very much. Mr. Ilija Filipović, then Mladen Ivanić, probably the Serbian version of the second.
ParlaMint-BA_2010-04-09-0.u7387	Here's a little something to say and remind my colleagues. So we have one document adopted by Parliament. It is called the Single Rules for making legal rules in BiH institutions. And I took part in a previous session in the debate, and even in the working group that worked and brought, so when the dom was bringing, maybe Professor Neimarlija will remember that, too, and Branko (there is no one here) and I was an ardent opponent and advocate to clear out of these rules everything that is foreigner, if we have a home word for it, no matter what language it is, because it is translated into each of the three official languages that we have in BiH. And in Unique Rules, here's a look later, you'll find that only in exceptional cases when there's no substitute word in domestic languages can we use a stranger. It seems to me I've accurately passed on that standard that we have in these rules. Because we've had strangers send us the law, and then the name of the article... so forgive me, translate it, it's known exactly that it's in translation, the speeches we have to do. You're going crazy, so it's about, I don't know, the judgmental thing. So we've had this, we're laughing at a distinguished colleague, and I know he knows what I'm talking about. I think he even participated with us in making legal rules and we simply expelled all those Latins, aliens and what we have substituted for our words. You see, what he said, I absolutely support it, so I'm standing on the trail of need to get a home expression. That an esteemed colleague of the Šaraba suggested it was called a little different than being called 'naturally sensitive language', because in this syntagma, we have two foreigners. If a jack is a broader concept than birth, so according to these rules that I'm talking about, we might be able to accept that one alien in this syntagma, but sensitivity, 34 sensitivity is possible in all the languages that we use in BiH, so it could be like a 'gender sensitive language'. That might already be peaceful for those of you who insist on staying a cop, and for what my colleague Šaraba is very justified, I stand behind it. If this is a broader notion, somebody explain to me the small width of that notion from birth when it comes to a jack. It would be acceptable for me to keep the gendarme, but if it were called a "jender sensitive language," this syntagma. Thank you.
ParlaMint-BA_2010-04-09-0.u7388	Thank you very much. Replica, Mr. Šaraba.
ParlaMint-BA_2010-04-09-0.u7389	So, I just want to tell my esteemed colleague Filipović that I came to this name by asking the lecturer – please, this term that exists in the law for me now is unacceptable, because that is a foreign word – which is a domestic word to replace this one, and he told me that name. So I accepted that, because it's perfectly logical to accept what the man whose job it is told me. I wasn't making anything up.
ParlaMint-BA_2010-04-09-0.u7390	Mr. Ivanic. Here you go.
ParlaMint-BA_2010-04-09-0.u7391	I think Mr. Šaraba is right and I will support his amendment. This is just an example that shows that a good part of our laws was written somewhere else and that then a key role in defining the terms was played by translators. And from the ability of the translator who translated the law, which someone else wrote, it depended on what kind of formulations we got. You have very skilled translators who do not literally translate, but translate essentially, you have those who are literal and did not translate well. And as for this example that Mrs. Majkić was saying, it would not be a 'born sensitivity centre', but it would be a 'born equality centre', which is not so much a complicated term in our example of the 'gender center'. Mr Filipović opened one topic, and I'm afraid she's taken us deep into what the gendarme means, in which it's a broader sense of the word. I'm afraid it's for Balkan occasions that we'll go a little bit too far. In that sense, this amendment, proposed by Mr. Šaraba, I fully accept and I think he can respond to what is the basic message.
ParlaMint-BA_2010-04-09-0.u7392	Here, Mrs. Majkić. 35
ParlaMint-BA_2010-04-09-0.u7393	I just want to remind you that we're keeping an eye on each other, so we're only going to change Article 5, but all the rest of the law is going to be a "gender." We're making a mess of law enforcement. So, I agree that Mr. Šaraba said in the whole of the law, he is a member of the 5th. But in this law to change that word, we're going to have one inconsistencies, so only in one member is going to be 'bornly sensitive', and everywhere is going to be 'junder'. Well, I mean, we're making a circus out of this law.
ParlaMint-BA_2010-04-09-0.u7394	Alma Čolo.
ParlaMint-BA_2010-04-09-0.u7395	Well, here, I'd like a quick one. I mean, the word "gender" itself comes from, I mean, the Latin word "genus," which means gender, but we're harmonising these three laws with the Law on Gender Equality. The law says "jender sensitious." Let's make a new regulation, I don't mind, but this parliament has passed that law on gender equality with these aliens and now we're harmonising with it. And now we suddenly remember that it's not in accordance with the Unique Rules, I mean really.
ParlaMint-BA_2010-04-09-0.u7396	Okay. Mr. Drago Ljubičić, would you like some?
ParlaMint-BA_2010-04-09-0.u7397	I thank you, Mr. Chairman. I have no intention of commenting on what Mr. Šaraba and the others have commented on. I just want to comment on the points of the agenda on the 9th, 10th and 11, I will take the opportunity to make one comment on all three proposals for these amendments to the law. I've only recognized here essentially the same problem,...where these changes improve the position of our ladies and ladies through this and we will support it from the SNSD. Thank you.
ParlaMint-BA_2010-04-09-0.u7398	That's right, so will we. All right, if there's no one else to answer the question, we'll make a statement about the Amendment of the Slobodan Šaraba delegate. We're voting on the amandman. Who Is For? _________(?) 36 [[no microphone turned on]] I'm sorry. ...I didn't see it. Hilmo, do you want one? We'll interrupt the vote, so come on, hilmo, come on in. Here's Neimarli, and then we'll...
ParlaMint-BA_2010-04-09-0.u7400	Well, I thought I'd come up with a third proposal, because there are reasons that motivated my colleague Šarab to submit this amendment, and they're far too high, and it would be hard to challenge them, on the one hand. On the other hand, we now have a logical one dispute of intervention itself with its amendment, because we are in fact correcting the correction, you know. I mean, the reason why we're making these amendments, there's still 'gender sensitivity', and we're changing the correction, so I wanted to ask you to find a solution in line with what we're all really agreeing about, and that's that for the next session of fellow Šarab or someone is proposing amendments to this law but very consistently, consistently, with cooperation and with lecturers, let's say, about finding an appropriate name. Because this isn't just a word, the gender is also the word of our everyday language communication, so, at the same time, the name that should have a very precise and termological definition here. And that, in my court, should be respected in finding solutions that will satisfy all these reasons. And that's why I thought I'd suggest that fellow Šaraba should respect the need for us to maybe support this commission's position, because I'm going to stay at this position of our committee, so that for some next session, we have a proposal that would be a consequential one solution, a procedure in this whole issue. Thank you.
ParlaMint-BA_2010-04-09-0.u7401	Mr. Šaraba. Here you go. _________(?) [[microphone is not enabled]] Will you pull back?
ParlaMint-BA_2010-04-09-0.u7403	The proposal of an esteemed colleague is very acceptable, but here I can propose my proposal: to accept this today and then to comply with the law at the next session with what has been adopted today.
ParlaMint-BA_2010-04-09-0.u7404	Okay. We're voting on Mr. Šaraba's amandman. Who is "for" this amendment? Five. 37 Who Is “against ”? "Contained"? With one voice "abstained", the others "against", the amandman did not pass. Now we're voting on the bill. Who Is For? ‘Non’? Niko. "Contained"? One. With one voice "abstained", I find that we are ___________(?) Two are “abstained. ” with two "abstained" – well, I apologize – to adopt the Law on Amendments and Supplements to the Law on the Public Television System of BiH in the same text as in the House of Representatives. Let's move on, Ad. Ten. Proposal for a Law on Amendments and Supplements to the Law on the Public Television Service of Bosnia and Herzegovina (second reading) – Proposer: Council of Ministers of BiH
ParlaMint-BA_2010-04-09-0.u7407	They're staying.
ParlaMint-BA_2010-04-09-0.u7408	They're staying, okay. We vote first on Mr. Šaraba's amandman I.. Who Is For? There are four votes "for" again. ‘Non’?
ParlaMint-BA_2010-04-09-0.u7409	Five is "for". 38
ParlaMint-BA_2010-04-09-0.u7410	Five votes "yes", okay. Against? Seven “against. ” "Contained"? Two “abstained. ” I find that this amendment has not been adopted. We're voting on this law. Who Is For? ‘Non’? Niko. "Contained"? I find that with two "abstained" votes.... this law has been passed. We're going to the 11th point, Ad. 11. Proposal for a Law on Amendments and Supplements to the Communication Act (second reading) – Proposer: Council of Ministers of BiH Same thing, we're voting on Mr. Šaraba's amandman. Who Is For? Five is "for". ‘Non’? Seven "against" and two "abstained"... Who is “abstained ”? Two. Okay. One “abstained. ” Okay. Now we're voting on this law. Who Is For? Is there anyone “against ”? "Contained"? There isn't. Two votes "abstained". I find that we have passed this law in the same text as the House of Representatives. Moving to point 12: Ad.12. Proposal for a Law on Amendments and Supplements of the Election Law of Bosnia and Herzegovina (first reading) – Proposers: Delegates Dušanka Majkić, Ilija Filipović, Hazim Rančić
ParlaMint-BA_2010-04-09-0.u7413	"I'll do it again from a moment ago." In the opinion we delivered, everything is visible and I have nothing to add.
ParlaMint-BA_2010-04-09-0.u7414	Okay. I give my word to the legislator of this law, as agreed. Here, Ilija Filipović.
ParlaMint-BA_2010-04-09-0.u7415	Here's a very short one. You've seen that it's not about some fundamental change, that it's mostly 90% change in technical nature, and these changes are essentially about improving the text because we're about to have a very fast election call, and these changes that we have in this election law would mean something. I'm sorry, so I have to say this here, which has not seen any fundamental changes, there has been no political will to define on the working group, which has been, in a different way, the issue of the electoral threshold, the compensation mandates, the preferential votes, the closed lists. So these were the key issues where we broke into that inter-resor group. You've also seen the polling lists, the checklist, the campaign rules, the obligations of multiethnic electoral commissions, etc., so there are some shifts and some repairs here. What is the request of the Central Election Commission, the Central Election Commission? (Mr. Hadžović follows our debate, we talked in the party). It would be necessary for us to end the procedure in the Paraliament as soon as possible and to bring such things, so harmless to anyone, changes and additions to the Electoral Law. And as it is quite certain that we will not bring the session to an end today – we have agreed to hold the next session in the College. 4. - perhaps it would be good to shorten this procedure for the amendment phase, to make it a maximum of one week, to say after the debate in the first reading and that the committees can, taking into account the amendments (... there are some amendments in the House of Representatives, adopted amendments in the House of Representatives) to search and possibly be in the same text and at this home and to get the 19th virtually amended and updated this Electoral Law, which I believe, immediately after the elections and after constitutional changes, Bog, again in some interresor group to call in some new text. I suggest that we accept these amendments and complements in the first reading and make this conclusion, so that in the shortened procedure, the amendment phase ends in a week and that in the second reading, we have the option of adopting this election law in full. Thank you. 40
ParlaMint-BA_2010-04-09-0.u7416	Okay, thank you very much. Božo Rajić.
ParlaMint-BA_2010-04-09-0.u7417	Thank you, Mr. Chairman. It may not be a good cause, but since it is about amendments and additions to a very large law, I remind you of one intervention, one conclusion of this home from before, when we said it was impossible to follow the amendments and amendments of the law unless the authentic text of the applicable law was proposed. Therefore, this law can only be accepted by word. So, I believe that it is technical interventions, those measures that are necessary to do so in order to remove already some known objections and some impediments to the realisation of this law, but I would ask that by the second stage, if Mr Filipović's proposal is accepted, and in all other cases, when laws change, especially more extensive texts, the authentic text of the Electoral Law, it is also changing. I don't know what changes, he says there is a point f) of Article 72 deleted. Which is deleted, or changed, so it reads like this so I can competently judge about it. I really ask that we stick to this conclusion that, regardless of whether it is a Council of Ministers, as the most common promoter, or an individual, a representative, a group, to stick to this principle to deliver to us the authentic text of a law that is changing and supplementing. Thank you.
ParlaMint-BA_2010-04-09-0.u7418	Okay. Here is the intervention that, in addition to this item of the agenda, there is 'every text of the law that changes, every member of the law that changes'. You may not have noticed, but here. Let's go, Ivo Miro Jović. Ivo Miro
ParlaMint-BA_2010-04-09-0.u7419	Thank you very much, Mr. President. I have reported that as chairman of the Constitutional Commission, I would support the proposal of the esteemed chairman Filipović, and I think it is extremely important to make such a decision at this time. Here, and in a conversation with the secretary of our committee, I think we can do the job when it comes to the Constitutional Commission, if today this high house makes a decision on the short procedure and that we can do this job on this commission and that we have the 19th session.
ParlaMint-BA_2010-04-09-0.u7420	Let me see if anyone else picks up? Mladen Ivanić, I'm sorry, here. 41
ParlaMint-BA_2010-04-09-0.u7421	It is that we have this law in our first reading and it is certain that there is a constitutional basis that this law can be discussed and in that sense I have no dilemma. However, I must say that I think that the fundamental change in this law is in chapter 16 concerning the media in the election campaign. And here it is predicted that the private media do not have a limit on giving the leased space to the parties, so I can do it unlimitedly. This basically means that the richest parties, which are the ones that have the best donors, will be able to rent the whole space and no one can forbid them. One party takes one TV, buys all the space. Where there is equality of the party, especially on funding conditions when this budget does not pay even stamps to finance parties, although worldwide budgets are paid by the parties. And we won't have transparency in party financing until the budgets take over at least 90% of party funding, as it is in most of the normal world. Therefore, I really think that this provision that eliminates it entirely for private media and gives public services up to 60 minutes per subject – is something that is unnecessary and favours parties with a lot of money. He favors parties that have financials. And that's why I'm gonna be against it in the amendment phase, but I will. I said he has a constitutional basis, Mr Filipović, but I have the right to say my general position on this matter. _________(?) [[microphone is not enabled]] What? _________(?) [[microphone is not enabled]]
ParlaMint-BA_2010-04-09-0.u7424	Okay, thank you very much. Is anyone else answering for word? If he doesn't answer, we'll go to a statement first. Do we agree to shorten this amendment phase to seven days because of the deadlines for the election and everything, because on May 5th (to which May we must bring?On 6 May, we have to make a decision that the 19th could be back on the agenda.
ParlaMint-BA_2010-04-09-0.u7425	You need to accept first reading, so... 42
ParlaMint-BA_2010-04-09-0.u7426	First, let's vote on this law. There goes the first vote on this law in the first reading. Who Is For? So we are all “for, ” as I have seen, there is no one“ against, ” “abstained. ” We are now voting on this proposal for a conclusion to shorten the amendment procedure for seven days. Who Is For? Is there anyone “against ”? With two votes "against", the conclusion was adopted. Point 13. Ad. 13. Proposal for a Law on Amendments and Supplements to the Customs Policy Act of Bosnia and Herzegovina (first reading) – Proposer: Council of Ministers of BiH The debate on the necessity and principles on which the draft law is based is first under Article 100. You have received the opinion of the Commission for Foreign and Trade Policy, Customs, Transport and Communications. The Commission accepted the principles of the proposed law. The House of Representatives passed the law. I give my word to the Chairman of the Commission, Alma Čolo.
ParlaMint-BA_2010-04-09-0.u7428	I'll do it for a while, Chairman. The Commission supported the principles of this law. We just suggested this conclusion to extend the amendment phase. In the meantime, she stopped the need for this conclusion because the House of Representatives is only 7. 4. considered the law, it should have been before in February, so that this conclusion should not be reached, because it is in fact the harmonisation of our customs legislation with EU customs regulations.
ParlaMint-BA_2010-04-09-0.u7429	Okay, thank you very much. I'm opening a debate. Mrs. Majkić's answering for a word. Here you go.
ParlaMint-BA_2010-04-09-0.u7430	I don't know how it happened, though, I wasn't in the last session, but I think there's a document missing from accepting this law called the Staff Board's position on indirect taxation. Therefore, the procedure for proposing a law supplementing and amending the Customs Policy Act is directly affecting the authority of the Management Board and I believe that it is in accordance with Article 43 14. The indirect tax administration had to declare that point. Therefore, the Management Board is responsible for establishing a policy proposal on indirect taxation, and since the Customs Policy Act regulates the area of import duties which are, by definition, placed in indirect taxes, it is clear that the Management Board of the ICC must give its position. It's not clear to me, I asked the minister how this law could have happened in the first place to be released into parliamentary procedure, without having previously provided such a significant document. He said, "I asked the Directorate for indirect taxation." Well, management can't. There is no indirect tax administration that has the power of the Management Board of the Direct Taxation Authority. I suggest that we support this law today in the first reading, but to reach a conclusion that, before considering the law in the second reading, it is necessary to ensure the consent of the Management Board of indirect taxation. Thank you.
ParlaMint-BA_2010-04-09-0.u7431	Thank you very much. Who's next to the word? Proposer of law, here you go. You can come over here for the shoot. _________(?) I thank you, Mr. Chairman. As regards the request for an opinion from the Management Board, this law did not need to seek the opinion of the Management Board since these amendments do not lead to any indirect taxes, it is not indirect taxes but administrative proceedings. You know, extending the deadlines, actually, the deadlines are outdated. So we haven't introduced any charges or changed. And we got a positive opinion, so from the Ministry of Justice and this Directorate for European Integration. Thank you very much. Nice to Ljubičić you. Here you go.
ParlaMint-BA_2010-04-09-0.u7433	I thank you, Mr. Chairman. I personally don't think I can accept such an explanation of the promoter for one reason, which, behold, I have worked on this service in customs at the time and when it comes to such matters, and administrative procedures and the question of obsolescence or non-deprecating of such items, are directly related to the financial effect. So, it means, whether they get in or out of indirect taxes, I personally think they're getting in the way. And I can't accept this interpretation like that. 44
ParlaMint-BA_2010-04-09-0.u7434	Okay, thank you very much. Who else is answering for a word? We have discussed this point in preparation for this session, so we believe that this law should be passed, with the conclusion that the opinion of the ICC should be obtained by the second stage. Let's vote now first on the bill in the first reading. Who Is For? Is there anyone “against ”? "Contained"? With two votes "abstained", I realize this law has been passed. And we also have this conclusion that Mrs. Majkić suggested: that the opinion of the Directorate for Direct Taxation should be obtained until the second reading. Who Is For? Is there anyone “against ”? Niko. With one vote "abstained", I find that this conclusion is also adopted. Moving to the 14th point of the agenda: Ad. 14. Proposal for a Law on Amendments and Supplements to the Public Procurement Act (first reading) – Proposer: House of Representatives The debate is about necessity, the principles on which the bill is based. You have received the opinion of the Finance and Budget Commission. The Commission accepted the principles of the proposed law. I give the floor to the chairman of the Finance and Budget Commission Dušanki Majkić. Here you go, ma'am.
ParlaMint-BA_2010-04-09-0.u7436	So first I have to speak as the chairman of the Finance and Budget Commission. And you see, it is simply the opinion that this four-vote committee "for" and two votes "against" supported the principles of the bill's proposal, and that's the thing I'm talking about as the chairman of this committee. Now let me say as a member of this committee, or as a delegate to the House of Peoples. So it is evident that a time ago, two months ago, it seems to me, was in the process of a new law on public procurement that was not adopted by the Parliamentary Assembly because representatives from the RS had their stance on institutional settlement of issues related to the law. We are dissatisfied with the way the Public Procurement Agency works and the Office for 45 consideration of the appeal, and not only us, but many delegates here have talked about these two institutions, the problems in working with them. So, what happens now? The Agency for Public Procurement through individual MPs at Parliament's House of Representatives takes up parts of the law and over three MPs will be in parliamentary procedure. We are not able, we are not able to accept this law until it is put on the table and until there is a debate at all on the organisation and repair of the situation in this area, in a way that RS has the right to speak its mind about it. So, we cannot support the proposals of this law, so I would just like to inform that, regardless of the position of this committee, the individual position of the delegates from the Serbian people is that this proposal and in this way of resolving, that practically the whole law is being brought to life by over three MPs - we cannot accept.
ParlaMint-BA_2010-04-09-0.u7437	Mr. Zoran Koprivica, then Hazim Rančić.
ParlaMint-BA_2010-04-09-0.u7438	Thank you, Mr. Chairman. In addition to what we heard from Mrs. Majkić, I'd like to add a few more sentences in general. The matter here is further complicated by the proposed text of the law: deadlines are being extended and simple application is becoming difficult, i.e. the possibility of complaint and appeal is increasing. The proposed members are too bulky, it is certain that they include more segments in one member and, on that side, this law is indeed not acceptable. I also agree with this finding that the proposed text of the law is an attempt in this way not to adopt the text again on the agenda and to come up with a text that is simply not acceptable to us for all of these reasons that Mrs. Majkić spoke about, too, and these additional texts that I have specifically highlighted here, so that we will not vote for this law. Thank you.
ParlaMint-BA_2010-04-09-0.u7439	Thank you very much. Mr. Hazim Rančić. Here you go.
ParlaMint-BA_2010-04-09-0.u7440	Thank you very much. So here's the thing: maybe for the fourth or fifth time, we're considering amendments and additions to the Public Procurement Act. We have tried with significant amendments to this law, and all in the function of harmonising this law with EU directives in this area. Then we tried to include the comments of all our companies, institutions, citizens, all those involved in public procurement in these amendments and additions to the existing Public Procurement Act. So we tried again with the whole law, and then it's said that we're not going to change and supplement, let's go to full law. Well, two or three times have been tried with amendments and additions to this law and unfortunately, colleagues from the SNSD never – whether we are considering small changes whether we are considering more changes and additions, whether we are considering the entire Public Procurement Act – will not support repairs in this area, constantly citing some quasi reasons as reasons why they do not want to vote. And approximately, the essence of their vote and disabling entity voting... to correct the matter in the field of public procurement, to make the observations we have and in certain cases justified and correct in a way that we adopt amendments and supplement this law, their urgency is to fully document the Public Procurement Act or to establish it in a way that we have two entity procurement agencies and that we have two entity offices to consider complaints. So the whole point is that they want to establish institutions at entity level that will be able to control and where they will be able to decide in both the first and second stages on huge amounts of money spent in the public procurement process. This current principle law is therefore acceptable to us from the Bosniak Club. This was not done by an MP by himself, it stands there fine, this was already in the procedure. This law is in line with the directives, it stands in the opinion of both this Commission and this agency, which gave its opinion on behalf of the Council of Ministers. And this law corrects the existing system of public procurement in a way that makes it easier and more effective to apply this law. We will support this law in the first reading. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-BA_2010-04-09-0.u7441	Thank you very much. Božo Rajić.
ParlaMint-BA_2010-04-09-0.u7442	I can't help but comment that someone who thinks what we're listening to, I don't know which way, even though they know it's useless. Here you can actually see something now that we keep trying to close our eyes in front of it. Imequities are seen and how two representatives of the people can do whatever they want and how the third cannot do anything. Whenever RS representatives want to break the law, they will bring it down. Whenever the Bošnjak of the Federation want to break the law, they will bring it down. That's true. So that's what we're dealing with. The reasons or quasi reasons aren't important to me, the reasons are very recognizable, I wouldn't get into it. It's about something else, that we have two laws. One of those two blocking life, which is often the subject of reports from various BiH institutions, especially the Office of Audit, is the Public Procurement Act and the Law on State Employees who have established a system of blockade in BiH. And the greatest number of problems in the functioning of state institutions, i.e. the authorities of the state administration, arises from the inability to create these more flow laws. I am deeply convinced that this law will never be passed... until the Public Procurement Agency at BiH level has been disarmed and two entities formed. I am deeply convinced that we will never change the Law on civil servants, the Civil Service Agency until it is also demonized on entities. 47 Therefore, this law and these changes are acceptable to me, and to those which we heard twice earlier, and in amendments and additions, I would accept that proposal of the new law because it seemed to me that it was bringing some improvements, some flow that we needed. But I also know it would be reasonable for the Bošnjak klub not to insist on these laws anymore because it will never push them through. Not for us, but for those who have the power to say no.
ParlaMint-BA_2010-04-09-0.u7443	Did Rančić answer? Replica, what is it?
ParlaMint-BA_2010-04-09-0.u7444	/no microphone turned on/
ParlaMint-BA_2010-04-09-0.u7445	Wrong quote.
ParlaMint-BA_2010-04-09-0.u7446	The first thing, we do not insist for ourselves, for ourselves or for the sake of the Club, or for one and the other, but we insist because it is for the benefit of all citizens and all institutions involved in the procurement process. Therefore, changes and additions are in the direction of facilitating and improving the process of public procurement. And, about the position of clubs, so I just want to say that the Bosniak Club has the same position as the Croatian Club in the House of Peoples of the Parliamentary Assembly of BiH. Neither we nor they can stop the vote of any law or decision in this house, and the privileged position in the House of Nations through an entity equal ethnic vote has only the Serbian People's Club. So, this thing is also in the Constitution and the Rules of Procedure and we do not have that possibility and there have been situations where without the vote of Bošnjak or without the vote of Srbin can be voted in this house, excuse me, Hrvat and Bošnjak can vote the laws. Thank you.
ParlaMint-BA_2010-04-09-0.u7447	Mr. Drago Ljubičić.
ParlaMint-BA_2010-04-09-0.u7448	The Mladen was the first.
ParlaMint-BA_2010-04-09-0.u7449	Replica. Well, then, if you'll excuse me, here's the replica.
ParlaMint-BA_2010-04-09-0.u7450	I think this was unnecessary, for no particular reason. Mr. Rančić said exactly when it comes to the House of Peoples, but he did not say there could be no decision in the House of Representatives... without the vote of the Bošnjak because there are 22 out of 42. 48
ParlaMint-BA_2010-04-09-0.u7451	/no microphone turned on/
ParlaMint-BA_2010-04-09-0.u7452	Mr. Rančić, a civil home in which you have 22 Bošnjak and who can only and any decision implies, and if we want that multiethnicity and that civil dictionary, let's say, let's say so. What Mr. Rajić said is true, what he said is true. In the BiH Parliamentary Assembly, the Bosniaks can stop, because without their vote there are no laws, but it is true that we in this house, because the Srbin voted largely against this law in the House of Representatives, so they did not stop it – in this house we can. So let's be open and honest. It is true what Mr Rajić said, but it does not justify the topic he has set in motion, because this topic has been defined in time by some people who have negotiated the order of this country, neither me nor him. And from that point of view, I don't think we should go into this phase right now, that's something we'll talk about in constitutional change if we talk.
ParlaMint-BA_2010-04-09-0.u7453	Can I just answer the line, Chairman?
ParlaMint-BA_2010-04-09-0.u7454	Here you go.
ParlaMint-BA_2010-04-09-0.u7455	/microphone is not enabled/
ParlaMint-BA_2010-04-09-0.u7456	Turn on the microphone, please.
ParlaMint-BA_2010-04-09-0.u7457	... I just wanted to say that we understand the realities that we live in and that we have the system of decision-making that we have, not going back to who signed it, who imposed it. If we're going to change him and when and how, I don't know. But the fact that we have a decision-making system that leads to this useless debate, I don't know what this is in a row debate, and we can still go 50 times, there won't be any bill that doesn't meet some criteria... on one side or on the other. So that's the point of my statement, not that we're going back now and we're discussing something, I don't even have an objection because it's useless and I object if I give it.
ParlaMint-BA_2010-04-09-0.u7458	Replica.
ParlaMint-BA_2010-04-09-0.u7459	Mrs. Majkić, also a replica. 49
ParlaMint-BA_2010-04-09-0.u7460	A comment on Mr. Rančić's exposure. If there was a desire to make a deal on this law, then it should have been organised at the widest level. The Bošnjak thought they would be able to counter the entire law through the Public Procurement Agency by bringing three MPs from the SDA's House of Representatives through the entire law without the rest coming forward. So if anyone cares about reaching a deal on this bill, then they'll sit down and talk about it, we won't try around the system of pranks. So, we said what our request is and we want to talk about it. You don't want to talk, you want to force it because it suits you. So, we're not comfortable with that, and please don't ever convince us what's best for us. I do not dispute that you defend the interests of the Bosniak people and do it the best you can, but I also ask you not to do it by defending yourself as you defend the attitudes of all nations here. Please don't do this. So we'll make a deal when you want to make a deal. Then we'll organize such an arrangement that everyone will have the right to say what they think about it. No law that provides only one opinion can pass.
ParlaMint-BA_2010-04-09-0.u7461	Is it the replica again? Hazim Rančić. Drago Ljubičić and Adem Ibrahimpašić are awaiting discussion.
ParlaMint-BA_2010-04-09-0.u7462	Here, I'll take a moment, Your Honor. Therefore, it is incorrect that the respected colleague Majkić intends to take one piece of the law through three MPs segmentarily, the other part of the law, and thus proceeds through parliamentary procedure. There's no evidence of that claim, and neither do we. If there's any evidence, let him go ahead and bring it up. There's no evidence, but he's defending himself on the way, making it up. Also wrongly respected colleague Majkić claims that we want to push her or anyone else, or the people, or the parties, or the citizens, to do something – it is not true. The law is in regular and legal procedure delivered. You know who suggested, how it went, how who voted. So it's not about any illegal shop, it's about the law and our Rules of Procedure and the Constitution of the prescribed procedure. And when it comes to the deal, I'm going to remind my esteemed colleague once more that four or five times we're considering this law. And I'm going to remind a respected colleague, when we first considered the law on amendments and additions to that law that was quite extensive, her discussion was: there are a lot of changes, maybe even over one half, and the Single Rules say let's go to the whole law. And we exactly respected her, and we MPs, and the Agency, and the Board of Appeal, and the Resolute Ministry, and we went along with her proposals to pass a new law. And when the law came in the process, a colleague voted "against" again. So that's how we did as you recommended, no one wanted to fool anyone. There was a whole law ahead of us in Parliament, both at the House of Representatives and the House of Peoples, but you didn't want to support it. Thank you.
ParlaMint-BA_2010-04-09-0.u7463	Thank you very much. Mr. Drago Ljubičić. 50
ParlaMint-BA_2010-04-09-0.u7464	I thank you, Mr. Chairman. My comment refers to the following. We are, in essence, witnessing that in most of the audit reports, which we have had the opportunity to analyse after each calendar year or budget year, one of the basic remarks to budget users is exactly the application of the Public Procurement Act. In the light of the proposed amendments to this law, the Agency is, at least as I read, in some way, I understand that in one particular way it has even admitted that certain solutions in the existing law are not adapted to a simpler and easier application in BiH, which says enough that the existing law should be amended in any case. I mean, I figured it out one other way. I think that these changes should be in the function of adapting, simply, to this law to the needs of the users of life, making sure that any abuse of the same law is prevented. I'm not sure that with this, too, let me put it this way, the changes in that proposal have worked out. This law is one, I believe, of the laws of life, of the law applicable, we can say on a daily basis, at all levels of government, from BiH institutions, through entity, cantonal to local levels of government and simply as such it should have been adapted to make it quite simpler and its application at all these levels. I don't think this has worked out, and it's, in a certain way, just my own... one more argument about what Mrs. Dušanka was commenting on. Thank you.
ParlaMint-BA_2010-04-09-0.u7465	Thank you very much. Delegate Adem Ibrahimapšić. Here you go.
ParlaMint-BA_2010-04-09-0.u7466	I thank you, Chairman. I'm gonna give up what I was gonna say so I don't keep cooking, but I'm only gonna say one thing. I am sure that one day there will be people sitting in this congregation who will be much smarter than we are and who will make decisions in the interest of both and third and other, so in the interest of the citizens of this country.
ParlaMint-BA_2010-04-09-0.u7467	Thank you very much. I'm closing the debate because I don't see anyone answering anymore. We're voting on the bill's proposal in the first reading. Who Is For? Nine is "for". Who Is “against ”? Three are “against. ” Two are “abstained. ” 51 Can we get along? There's no... Second round of voting. We're voting again. Who Is For? Nine is "for". Who Is “against ”? Four votes "against". One “abstained. ” The law didn't go through, it wasn't passed. We are now in the College thinking of moving to the agenda points concerning the ratification of the treaty and ending it. IVO
ParlaMint-BA_2010-04-09-0.u7468	No microphone turned on
ParlaMint-BA_2010-04-09-0.u7469	Here you go, Ivo Miro Jović. Ivo Miro
ParlaMint-BA_2010-04-09-0.u7470	Allow me, Mr. President. I would like to ask and ask: The second home passed these four laws proposed by the Institute of Intellectual Property. Today we have a really small production. These four laws... will show practice, there won't be any amendments.
ParlaMint-BA_2010-04-09-0.u7471	Ivo Miro [[no microphone turned on]]
ParlaMint-BA_2010-04-09-0.u7472	: There is a proposal for a law on the protection of geographical indications, a proposal for a law on topography, a proposal for a law on industrial design and a proposal for a brand law. Excuse me, stamp, patent, design and topography. And they have an emergency procedure, and they need it as soon as possible. _________(?) Ivo Miro [[no microphone turned on]]
ParlaMint-BA_2010-04-09-0.u7473	So, Mr. Jović, that's from the 18th point. Ivo Miro
ParlaMint-BA_2010-04-09-0.u7474	That's right. 52
ParlaMint-BA_2010-04-09-0.u7475	Okay. Then let's go, there's Alma Čolo with something. Here you go, Alma.
ParlaMint-BA_2010-04-09-0.u7476	Mr. Chairman, I don't know what our time is, but believe me, all these laws that are going now could be very soon.
ParlaMint-BA_2010-04-09-0.u7477	That's if we can, I don't mind.
ParlaMint-BA_2010-04-09-0.u7478	In an hour I think we can do this... [[Common discussion]]
ParlaMint-BA_2010-04-09-0.u7479	Here, let's do this. Here, colleagues here claim to have objections to other laws, but here everyone agrees, when it comes to 18th, 19th, 20th, 21st, 22nd, and ratification, that now we can end it quickly. Is he okay? Let's go point 17. Ad. 17. Proposal for a Law on Amendments and Supplements to the Labour Act in the Institutions of Bosnia and Herzegovina
ParlaMint-BA_2010-04-09-0.u7480	No, we're skipping that.
ParlaMint-BA_2010-04-09-0.u7481	No, I'm sorry. Point 18. Ad. 18. Proposal for a law on the protection of geographical indications (first reading) – Proposer: Council of Ministers of BiH You've been given the Constitutional Commission's opinion. The Commission accepted the principles of the proposed law. The House of Representatives passed this law with four amendments. I give my word to the chairman of the Commission, Ivo Miri Jović. 53 Ivo Miro
ParlaMint-BA_2010-04-09-0.u7483	: Thank you so much for accepting... I would suggest, if it can be done in any way in a business way, that these four laws be declared at once, five, excuse me. So, it's not common... One at a time.
ParlaMint-BA_2010-04-09-0.u7484	One by one, let's go. Ivo Miro
ParlaMint-BA_2010-04-09-0.u7485	"For all of them, I speak the same thing. It's written...
ParlaMint-BA_2010-04-09-0.u7486	Okay. We won't be looking for your... I'm opening a debate. Nice to Ljubičić you. Here you go.
ParlaMint-BA_2010-04-09-0.u7487	I thank you, Mr. Chairman. Well, I will join and we have accepted Mr. Jović's proposal to discuss five laws. And I'm going to make my own comment and apply essentially to all five laws. We know that there is one obligation before BiH to comply with EU laws and I have just recognised in all these five laws that it is one of the essential and objectives and to amend these laws, as well as, normally, that these changes create certain possibilities for BiH to be involved in certain other world associations. On the other hand, I'm saying that we support these laws and that they go further into procedure.
ParlaMint-BA_2010-04-09-0.u7488	Thank you very much. No one's answering for a word anymore. I'm putting the bill in first reading for a vote. Who Is For? Is there anyone “against ”? There isn't. "Contained"? There isn't. I find that we unanimously passed this law in our first reading. Moving to point 19. Ad. 19. Proposal for a Law on the Protection of Topography of Integrated Cars (First Reading) – Proposer: Council of Ministers of BiH 54 The House of Representatives passed this law. I'm opening a debate. No Niko's answering for a word. I'm putting the bill to the vote. Who Is For? Is there anyone “against ”? "Contained"? There isn't. I find that we unanimously passed the proposal for a law on the protection of topography of an integrated car. Point 20. Ad. 20. Proposal for a Law on Industrial Design (First Reading) – Proposer: Council of Ministers of BiH
