ParlaMint-BA_2010-03-10-0.u32823	Ladies and gentlemen, honored guests, I am opening the 73rd session of the BiH Parliamentary Assembly's House of Representatives. At the meeting, we invited our regular guests, the chairman and members of the BiH Presidency, the chairman and members of the Council of Ministers, representatives of international organisations and NGOs who follow the work of our home. I welcome all present MPs and guests, as well as media representatives. According to service information, 35 MPs attend the session. I find the session has a quorum for full-time work and decision-making. Momčilo Novaković and Velimir Jukić announced a delay. As part of the previous issues, I note that, in line with our conclusion with the 71st session of the House of the Central Election Commission, we have received a proposal for a plan of activities to bring the BiH Constitution and the Election Law into force in order to implement the European Court of Human Rights' decision and it has been delivered to you. Clubs also received from the Council of Ministers an Action Plan to implement the European Court's ruling. Each club has been asked to delegate one representative to the Working Party for the preparation of the amendment to the BiH Constitution and the harmonisation of the Electoral Law, in line with the same Action Plan of the Council of Ministers. As for the change of agenda, I want to know that we are point 17. The draft law amending and supplementing the Law on Service in the Armed Forces of BiH complemented the opinion of the Joint Commission for Defence and Security of BiH, since the Commission did not accept the principles of this law. According to our agreement with yesterday's college meeting in expanded composition, we intend to take a break at 1400 hours. I'm opening a debate on the proposed agenda. Dear Ambassador Mirko Okolić. Replica or business intervention, what is it?
ParlaMint-BA_2010-03-10-0.u32824	No, the discussion.
ParlaMint-BA_2010-03-10-0.u32825	Discussion?
ParlaMint-BA_2010-03-10-0.u32826	That's how it stands with me. 2
ParlaMint-BA_2010-03-10-0.u32827	Here you go.
ParlaMint-BA_2010-03-10-0.u32828	Thank you very much. Thank you, Mr. Chairman. Dear fellow Members and fellow Members, representatives of the Council of Ministers, NGOs, means of information, dear guests, I would like to propose, on the basis of Rule 65 (1) of the Rules of Procedure of the BiH Parliamentary House for today's session of the House, 73th in a row, a new item of the agenda, which would be called 'A consideration of breaking and violent entry into the BiH Parliamentary Assembly Hall, on Day 1. 3. 2010'. Explanation: Day 1. 3. In 2010, which is marked by an entity, the Federation of BiH, as the Day of Independence of BiH, by former SDA MP Ibran Mustafić, a hall of the BiH Parliamentary Assembly was breached. For the purpose of proof, I deliver written material in the form of statements in newspapers and other articles, and photographs. Since breaking and entering into the hall is an illegal, vandal, non-democratic act, etc., I propose that the debate and the following conclusions: 'The House of Representatives strongly condemns the vandal act of breaking and entering the BiH Parliamentary Assembly Hall; that the Joint Colgium of both the House of Parliamentary Assembly of BiH file criminal charges against Ibran Mustafić, possibly and others, as guilty of breaking into the BiH Parliamentary Assembly Hall; that this House be notified after criminal reporting. Why the Kolegijum? Because it is the Kolegijum who approves the Great Hall, the Joint College approves the Great Hall. Here, in addition, I deliver the written material that I said was attached." Thank you.
ParlaMint-BA_2010-03-10-0.u32829	Thank you. Dear Messenger Mirjana Malić. Here you go.
ParlaMint-BA_2010-03-10-0.u32830	Dear Chairman, colleagues and colleagues, distinguished ministers, representatives of NGOs and guests, therefore allow me to try, on behalf of the SDP Club, to sublime three of our remarks on today's agenda in the shortest lines. That's what we were talking about yesterday, that's what I was talking about at the Expansive College. In fact, the chairman of our home has briefly introduced us to the fact that the Council of Ministers delivered the Action Plan through what is called the previous issues. I must remind my distinguished colleagues that when the SDP Club submitted our initiative to this Parliament on 26 December 'that the legal authorities in our country must be manifested and the proposal for the International Court of Human Rights ruling in Strasbourg', so that the initiative entered into the procedure on 18 January, the Constitutional Commission supported it, and at the 71st session of the 3 House of Representatives since 10 February 2010, almost unanimously with one abstention, adopted conclusions that read: 'The Council of Ministers and the Central Election Commission are in charge to do so', but another conclusion which is also a fully valid and legal conclusion on the same issue: 'The House of Representatives will consider the action plan at the regular session of Parliament 10. March.' Why is it not sufficient for the SDP Club to know that the Council of Ministers has informed the Working Group and why we insist on putting it at the top today and at the very beginning of our work today is the fact that there is no plan for the SDPs until this parliament is manifested, because this parliament has commissioned the Council of Ministers to manifest itself as the executive authority of our country according to the Court of Human Rights in Strasbourg, which obliges our country to do something? When we put this plan into consideration, then we'll have to further say why we're unhappy. That's not enough. The Council of Ministers and the ruling coalition are legal and legitimate, as they like to say, authorities in this country, or representatives of government in this country. The way the Council of Ministers' Action Plan envisioned Parliament's involvement in Parliament's work on the proposal does not promise that with great care and fundamental changes, we will see discrimination eliminated, which is preferred by the Strasbourg verdict. So we as an opposition party are not the opposition of the state. And we feel obliged to participate in everything that is important for the survival and dignity of our country. But we're not ready to be an alibi for your failed deals. And so I ask you nicely, all colleagues, to try to fulfill the proposal, not only at point one, but at point two, and allow this Parliament first to manifest itself on the proposed plan and then today, at 14 o'clock, to be the constitution of the Working Group that the Council of Ministers has formed and determine those who will participate in this regard. So that's one suggestion, and that's why I didn't agree yesterday to put this item on agenda number 28. Because point 28 of today's debate would be in order between 5 and 6 o'clock, and the Council of Ministers has already scheduled the establishment of this task force at 2 o'clock today, and it really wouldn't make sense. Secondly, what I want to remind you of (and may be third, but I will speak together) this Parliament and about this yesterday there were speeches at the Extended College and I think I share the opinion of all members of the Expansive College, the two SDP Club initiatives in this House; one was about the information precise to all relevant ministries and institutions of our country that were involved in Operation Light; and other information on the arrest and arrest of our citizens. I fully understand that we were, or that the College, narrowly the College was unable to put this on the agenda by respecting Parliament's position, because we did not receive any relevant information from any responsible institution or leading institution that led those processes or which is responsible for what is happening to our citizens outside the country. But I have to say on behalf of the SDP Club that we are truly expressing our dissatisfaction with the Council of Ministers' completely ignoring relationship when these two issues have been restarted. And I would pray, if there were representatives of the Council of Ministers, that at least now they were verbally giving us information, so for lack of responsibility or ignoring views, not only of this House but even the conclusions of the joint sessions of both the Houses of this Parliament. Here, for now, thank you. 4
ParlaMint-BA_2010-03-10-0.u32831	Allow only for the purpose of meeting all MPs, we discussed this situation at the Expansive College yesterday, and the Kolegijum's proposal was to put the Action Plan as the 23rd point of the agenda; if we need to discuss it. However, and then of all the members of the Expansive College was the view that it should not be placed, that the information we received was sufficient. Therefore, these views of the new ones may be new attitudes, but yesterday this was agreed to the position of the enlarged College on the agenda. At the same time, the Secretary of the Council of Ministers was present and said... about obtaining information on the agenda item on the Maoča and the fact that this is the point of the agenda of both homes, not only today, the agenda of the House of Representatives, so that clubs and club presidents could share that information with their members about what we received from the Secretary of the Council of Ministers and their intended when that information would come on the agenda. That's what was going on at the Expansive College. I think they should be familiar with those who aren't from their clubs or club presidents who heard what was going on. Next for the discussion is Ambassador-in-Office Šefik Džaferović. Here you go.
ParlaMint-BA_2010-03-10-0.u32832	Mr. Chairman, colleagues and colleagues, at a session of both homes this month, I pointed to an event that happened the day before and I felt, regardless of what was not on the agenda, that such an important question should not be mentioned or treated at a joint session which, I say, took place the day after that. Namely, on March 1st of this year, Professor Dr. Ejup Ganić, member of the Presidency of the Republic of BiH, and, as far as I know, Vice President of the Presidency in the period from '92 to '95. On March 1st of this year, at the request of Serbia, Serbia was deprived of freedom in the UK, at the request of Serbia for extradition. This is such an important event that I think there is no need to spend words, an event that will certainly leave a mark on the overall relations in both BiH and the region, an event that is important from several aspects, and I believe that the Parliamentary Assembly of BiH must receive information from the Council of Ministers on what happened and must discuss this information. For today, I have written here a draft agenda item for the 73rd session of the House of Representatives, which reads: 'Information by the Council of Ministers of BiH on the deprivement of the freedom of Professor Dr Ejup Ganić in Great Britain, on the basis of Serbia's request for extradition'. This is a request on behalf of the SDA Club. I have nothing against it, nor does the SDA Club mind that this applies to all BiH citizens, as the distinguished Professor Malić pointed out in her proposal. I think that information must come here today to Parliament, and if it is not possible for that information to come today, then here I can agree that it is one of the first points of the first next session of the House of Representatives. Here's what I'm going to give to copy and share with my colleagues. Thank you. 5
ParlaMint-BA_2010-03-10-0.u32833	Thank you. Dear Ambassador Zlatko Lagumdžija. Here you go.
ParlaMint-BA_2010-03-10-0.u32834	I thank you, Mr. Chairman, while respecting what my colleague Džaferović said, so they are ready to include this initiative in the initiative that we have already given, we are ready, to say so, to agree that it would be called a agenda point that would unite, firstly, any of the cases; if there is a readiness for one, good and is; if there is a readiness for two, such as Jurišić and Ganić, even better; if there is a readiness for Jurišić, Ganić and any BiH citizen who could come to such an opportunity tomorrow, it would be best. And we are prepared for any of these topics to make our active contribution. Mr. Chairman, what you said about Light is not enough for us, but I hope the Parliamentary Assembly will show itself about it. A proposal and a agenda point that you'd like me to initiate. The reason why Professor Malić couldn't initiate him yesterday at the College, and he was offered this very situation that we post-festum act, means of information and internet portals, the Internet world is in the last 12 hours full of information, if judged by the media, about a scandal that could turn into new cases of Ganić and Jurišić and who knows who. Namely, what's this about? The Internet has been flooded with comments and some printed media have seen it today announced that it has gone from the Ministry of Security to the UN Security Council a memo that practically denunciates certain organisations that co-operate with a network of terrorists. I know exactly what that means. I was a signator as foreign minister and Mr. Belkić ratified this and there was a full consensus of all political forces in Parliament in 2002 when the International Declaration on Co-operation of the World was signed and ratified in the fight against terrorism. It's very serious stuff. If, imagine, the following situation, a letter from the Ministry of Security was sent, which lists 10, 20, 30, 50 organisations among which is the state airline, including the Bank of Bosnia for Development (Investment Bank) which in four weeks makes the largest investment forum in this country in the last few years, so the institutions have been denunciated to co-operate with the world's network of terrorism. This means that today afternoon a plane marked "Air Bosnia" can be stopped because... and that you know the sanctions for such a thing are such that no one can help us, even if we have a consensus, which we obviously do not have. So I would ask, Mr. Chairman, that today we are urgently informed about what is going on, because tomorrow, every hour, means one investor less at an investment conference. Every hour means the possibility that the planes of Bosnia and Herzegovina will stop because their own state has said that aircraft carrying the mark are co-operating with world terrorism. That can't wait. So I suggest, please, I have a formulation, that we get information about who did it, how he did it, on what grounds he did it, and that he pulls it out until they fill the evidence to accuse his own country that we're a terrorist country. 6 So that's one. And secondly, Mr. Chairman, since you have already commented on Mrs. Malić's initiative, I would like to say that for us, the Council of Ministers' decision on the Action Plan does not exist as the SPD. I would like to inform you that... the decision we want to discuss this by, first in Parliament before it is activated. Because, let me just inform you, in this decision we don't want to be a front. Here comes Mr. Dokić. He was appointed to the Council of Ministers in this decision ahead of the SNSD.
ParlaMint-BA_2010-03-10-0.u32835	The man is a member of the SNSD Club.
ParlaMint-BA_2010-03-10-0.u32836	The man is a member of the SNSD Club! Congratulations!
ParlaMint-BA_2010-03-10-0.u32837	Yeah.
ParlaMint-BA_2010-03-10-0.u32838	Congratulations again.
ParlaMint-BA_2010-03-10-0.u32839	He's always been from the beginning of Parliament.
ParlaMint-BA_2010-03-10-0.u32840	Great. So in front of the SNSD, he's been delegated.
ParlaMint-BA_2010-03-10-0.u32841	In front of the SNSD Club.
ParlaMint-BA_2010-03-10-0.u32842	Great. In front of the SDP on this decision... I just want to inform you that the Council of Ministers knows: for us this Council of Ministers decision is not valid with the names of the members of this committee. The SDP does not want to participate in the commission. The Council of Ministers cannot appoint a man from the SDP to the commission. He can't do that, especially without Parliament being seen about it. So I consider this a capital issue because the Action Plan, I want to be very clear, we want to talk more because we argue that this Action Plan of the Council of Ministers is a fraud for BiH. Ten weeks were due to create an Action Plan that has a page and a half, and now these people are expected to need five weeks to bring constitutional amendments. We're not taking part in this. _________(?) [[no microphone turned on]] I'm sorry, in two weeks. So ten weeks, Martine, should have been said, we will have to make a decision, and eventually the Council of Ministers appoints members of Parliament in its committee 7 by its decision. Allow me, it can't do that. So I'll inform you once, please take what Professor Malić said seriously. Now I am telling you in front of the Club, and I as a member of Parliament and as a member of the Club, to underline once again the importance of this. This is not how you do it. And we don't want any part of it. And we inform you and the Council of Ministers and those present here that your decision – we do not recognise and respect it and do not accept the extent to which you appointed a member of the SDP representative to it. Please don't publish it in the Official List because you'll have the expense of publishing the correction.
ParlaMint-BA_2010-03-10-0.u32844	Thank you. We will put your proposal as a part of the agenda to put the Action Plan in today's session agenda. However, we need to clarify things that I don't want to be vague about. The Council of Ministers and the Ministry of Justice has asked MP clubs to appoint their members and delegate their members there. Niko one puts violence on anyone, nor has he named them without their consent, the club. Just because clubs like SDS named Mr. Novaković who no longer belongs to that party doesn't mean he doesn't belong to that club. Therefore, it is the clubs that have delegated their club members to that committee. The SDP can say it doesn't agree with the name of the SDP of that man, so he can say he's withdrawing his signature, but no one has done anything past the procedure. Everything has been done in accordance with the procedure and I ask you to make things clear here. Dear Ambassador Remzija Kadrić, replica. Here you go.
ParlaMint-BA_2010-03-10-0.u32845	I thank you, Chairman. We have just received a proposal to supplement the agenda of the honourable MP Mirko Okolić, so, before I enter this proposal, I would ask the Proposer to give us a little further explanation of the title of his point in which it reads: 'A consideration of breaking and entering the Assembly Hall'. To further explain what "interview" means. How do we consider breaking and entering?
ParlaMint-BA_2010-03-10-0.u32846	Thank you. Dear Ambassador Drago Kalabić, the debate. Here you go.
ParlaMint-BA_2010-03-10-0.u32847	Dear Chairman, distinguished colleagues and colleagues, here we are, in accordance with current practice, not having a proposal for agenda points because we believe that the function of the Kolegijum and the Expansive College is to establish the agenda, do not, of course, deny others the right to do so today. But who knows which way we're talking for collegiate reasons because all clubs and all MPs are represented at the extended college and have the opportunity to do so. 8 What we have heard from Mr Lagumdžija, I think it is a real problem for us procedurally, given that he is not present at Parliament, that he is not present on committees and, normally, it is very difficult this way when he comes to Parliament for a minute to get along and to give us a lecture here and take us some time. She's got a folk that doesn't need to work with anyone, not to be at home or... So do I. Now we regret that we even supported the SDP initiative, and we supported it last time, because this quasimulative, quasi-democratic, semi-patriotic party in fear that some of this might be, here's how it works. Is it worth the effort of a member of this club who was appointed in front of the SDP to sit in this one, call it whatever you want, the task force, the commission, and possibly wait for failure and to book it for someone. What else could we have done? What is controversial in this country to give anyone another chance to finish this job? Clubs are asked to name a representative. It was a procedure. We respected it. A member of the SNSD Club was appointed, i.e. he was agreed to participate in this committee. As we've been informed, that's what other clubs have been doing. We're doing all this on the SDP initiative. All of this was agreed by the SDP. These people even said, and here I am curious, said they'd do it in the next 10 days. Who is full of 10 days to wait to see what will be done and can it be done? And then suddenly the fear of eventually, given that it's a party that's ready for a gram of power to get everything else in the mud, the fear of eventually some success, let it improve. It's okay, let's go together and we'll take part in this mess. Let us also offer a platform to break it down, so here's how we supported that initiative of yours to do, here's what you suggest. Let's suggest we take part in this together, if you as a political party think we shouldn't do it, that it can't be done, that it won't be done in advance, even though you have all the time in this world to say everything later as an opposition party, and to invoice the one who doesn't do it and so on. But there's something else in the background. We know well what's in the background, that the emperor is forced to the tobacco and now he has to plead. And that's the problem. But it's not fair, at least not to be in agreement in these procedural matters and to respect these procedures, we always have time for political evaluations, we always have time. I think the SDP Club took part in this, like all the other clubs, that we gave it a chance. In this House, was it ever questionable who would make a good proposal and who would come to the consensus, we all showed a desire for anyone who did, and that we would have if it were the Council of Ministers, if it were Parliament, if it were clubs, if they were leaders. I don't think people who want success ask questions about who's going to do it. However, here we have come to a situation where something we have done on the SDP proposal has shown responsibility, and we now have a situation where the promoter withdraws before dawn from the process and he does not want to participate. I don't know why the rest of us would have more obligations to this country than the SDP? If they care about breaking it that way, then I don't think it's a problem. I liked to have Mr Lagumdžija come forward about the agenda for breaking into Parliament. How can Parliament's integrity, which has been marred by burglary, settle today's significant decisions? It would be good to tell all of us who are working, who are here, to make a statement about that fact, so we can put it all on the agenda to see. We will support this point to discuss it. I think it's a humiliation for this parliament, for the people who are sitting here, what's happened, and that those who plead on other important topics should also be made known. 9 I will ask... there was a proposal to discuss, I do not know which member of the Bureau Mr Džaferović spoke of. I don't know one who was a member of the presidency. If we are talking about the citizens of BiH and the proceedings before war crimes courts, both in The Hague and in BiH, in other countries, in international law, I think we should talk about the citizens of BiH. About no one individually. Hundreds of Srbin from Croatia have been arrested throughout the former Yugoslavia, 10-15 a day, so no one has raised any temperature in this parliament, leaving the states to sort it out in some way, in accordance with international law, and it is being resolved because this parliament cannot resolve it. We stay here, if that proposal goes, to ask the Kolegijum to bring us those flows, what's it called, to get dressed, to bring us those hammers for all the judges, because obviously we intend to judge and judge today. Well, we'll judge. We'll all get Kočić, that Jazavac in front of the court, and we'll all take it as literature and judge. There are various presidents, members of the presidency, presidents of the republics, like these, there are many things in the courts. Why would they single one out? Or what we do, there's only one court, and there's no one else?
ParlaMint-BA_2010-03-10-0.u32848	microphone not enabled
ParlaMint-BA_2010-03-10-0.u32849	Take it easy, please!
ParlaMint-BA_2010-03-10-0.u32850	I didn't hear you, Mr. Džaferović, because I haven't heard your reaction so far to the people who were arrested and released, to dozens of completely innocent people, but they had to pass those processes. The whole time you've been here, you've been saying that the court is in charge, that the court is in charge. Suddenly, when the water came to the floor, when what has been avoided for years, now needs to be swallowed, suddenly shit rises and, I don't know, tries to drag this parliament into something that really doesn't have space and doesn't make sense. But here, we'll get to the bottom of it. I'm looking for a 40-minute break on behalf of the SNSD Club.
ParlaMint-BA_2010-03-10-0.u32851	Half an hour's break has every right to search.
ParlaMint-BA_2010-03-10-0.u32852	Okay. [[PAUZA]]
ParlaMint-BA_2010-03-10-0.u32853	Comrades and fellow MPs, please continue to work. The SNSD club requested a half-hour break. Club president: Explanation of the break. Please, do you have a need? 10
ParlaMint-BA_2010-03-10-0.u32854	So I have a need, Mr. Chairman, we wanted to check some things in the break, to warn Parliament not to enter a dangerous zone, and I have a feeling we're just going that way. We checked, so the SDP Club sent its proposal legitimately to the Council of Ministers, so it wasn't the Council of Ministers that did it, but the club sent its proposal. He also has the right to withdraw, but if he didn't burden us and this session with it and everything else, it means he wouldn't create a play, we checked it out means, quite legitimately their proposal was and they were thus involved in this. We needed this break to check. We also checked Parliament's reactions when it comes to Mr Džaferović's proposal. When one of the MPs was arrested... this parliament did not answer and did not have any reaction when the state of Serbia arrested people on warrants and war crimes, it was welcomed from here, no one answered. When a BiH citizen from Zvornik was arrested in Serbia on warrants and no arrest warrants, it was thought that it was the work of the judiciary, we have now come into a situation to send a dangerous message: that everyone may or may not arrest only members of a nation. I don't think this parliament should get into that kind of trap, that it would be very dangerous. The past says we're wrong here and it's not smart that way... But if we're going that way, we're ready to offer the arguments for what we're saying.
ParlaMint-BA_2010-03-10-0.u32855	Thank you. Dear Ambassador Mirjana Malić, replica. Here you go.
ParlaMint-BA_2010-03-10-0.u32856	Dear Chairman, colleagues and colleagues, here I am, although I signed up for the replica 40 minutes ago, Mr. Kalabić, as president of the SNSD Club. I haven't forgotten what he said in these 40 minutes or half an hour. So, first of all, Mr. Kalabić said that they don't know -- we don't know what you know; that they know what we think or what we know. We don't know what SNSD knows or what SNSD knows. We know that we have not submitted any SDP initiative, but as a club of MPs in this House, we have proposed a conclusion, and this is the conclusion adopted by 10. 2nd of this year, which tasks the current, legal, executive government in our country to initiate the procedure for the adoption of constitutional changes related to the elimination of discrimination in our Constitution after a silence of almost a month and a half from the time of its verdict in Strasbourg. I will remind this house once again, and I think that no one in the worst and best intentions can assess this by politics: that in 2002, we became a member of the full Council of Europe, we made a commitment that within a year from our Dayton Constitution, Annex IV. Eliminate discriminatory provisions that are in conflict with the Resolution on the prohibition of discrimination, which we have signed. For eight years, the two mandates in which most of the current positions took part actively ignored this situation. During the course of the trial at the European Court of Human Rights in Strasbourg,... our country did not even agree to an agreement without a verdict to do so. That's why we felt it was necessary to initiate this kind of activity. That's the first thing. Therefore, it is not about the SDP's fear of success or failure. Eight years of current... positions are enough parameters whether it's a success or not and whether we're able to make some moves.
ParlaMint-BA_2010-03-10-0.u32857	Time!
ParlaMint-BA_2010-03-10-0.u32858	Just give me a second. So he did not support this parliament with any political or non-political SDP initiative. The SDP only reminded the state's obligation and current authorities that the verdict must be fully implemented and that there is no point only if it is done in a timely manner. And the other thing I'm saying, I have here a piece of paper in which our technical secretary of the club wrote my name, it was immoral that I, as the club president who submitted that conclusion, was escillating it all together. But I'm sorry, this conclusion is two points, the second point is that the Council of Ministers is obliged to present the Action Plan to this Parliament and this House, to make that clear, and then to see what we do next. And there's our dilemma and there's our protest. Because, I'm sorry, it's not a problem for the SDP to participate, but we really won't and we're not ready to... I didn't ask you anything, sir.
ParlaMint-BA_2010-03-10-0.u32859	Time!
ParlaMint-BA_2010-03-10-0.u32860	Here, since it is time, I insist once again that this conclusion adopted at the previous session, or 71, be fully fulfilled.
ParlaMint-BA_2010-03-10-0.u32861	Thank you. Dear Ambassador Šefik Džaferović, replica. Here you go.
ParlaMint-BA_2010-03-10-0.u32862	Mr. Chairman, colleagues and colleagues, replica me to the part relating to the Action Plan, only the truth works. So, we concluded "that the Council of Ministers should make an Action Plan by the 1st of this month and deliver it to Parliament to discuss in Parliament a session of the 10th". 12 So that's true, that's how it was and check the stenogram. So I don't have a problem and we do this, although that deadline there is a little funny, two weeks after five weeks of debate about it. Then how do two weeks to do the essential part of the job? But on that point, I think it would be a good idea to put it at the top of the agenda, to discuss it as Parliament, because we have taken the commitment, and that is the truth. The other thing is this proposal I made. I read very carefully what I wrote very carefully, and later it was shared to you, not wanting, therefore, in any way to cause any discussion and discussion. And if you will, counterpart Kalabić, you know, my intention is to put Rome on the agenda for the first time, and put that agreement on the agenda, and then to show and prove who can judge war crimes in BiH, that is The Hague tribunal and the BiH Court. And to show that it will eventually prove that in this case Serbia has misused the position of an international entity. So here's what I'm going to tell you, and it's going to end up like that, and I didn't want to say anything else.
ParlaMint-BA_2010-03-10-0.u32863	Dear Ambassador Selim Bešlagić, replica. Here you go.
ParlaMint-BA_2010-03-10-0.u32864	So I'm replicating my colleague Kalabić. First, the latest one is incorrect because Serbia, the Republic of Serbia, is catching citizens of BiH without distinction to nationality, both Srbin and Hrvat and Bošnjak. I suppose there will be others if this behavior is not put to rest, and if Parliament does not take a stand to protect the citizens of BiH. As you said, Mr. Kalabić, Selim Bešlagić was prosecuted and detained by the BiH Prosecutor's Office. You were supposed to discuss it here, you didn't accept it, and I thank you. If you say now that we respect the judiciary and the judiciary, here I accept that thesis and accept that fact. Selim Bešlagić and the procedural people from Tuzla for the Tuzla column, including Ilija Jurišić, officially received from the BiH Prosecutor's Office that there are no elements, as well as the Court's decision in The Hague that there are no elements to process these things. This decision to be even more sarcastic and even bigger, I would say, is that Ilija Jurišić also received this decision from the BiH Prosecutor's Office in the Belgrade court and has no reaction from the Belgrade judiciary, etc. And thirdly, I would ask you, Mr. Kalabić, that in this country you Srbin as a constituent people respect this country and try to try to protect all BiH citizens together, without distinction to nationality. So I ask you in these further discussions, at least when it comes to these things, to accept what you're saying, to accept the prosecution, the BiH judiciary and to process everything, I put myself at my disposal, because I knew what I was, who I was, what the Tuzlac were doing, and I got a full satisfaction. But still no way out of BiH today, because a court in Belgrade has sent a red warrant for the five of us from Tuzla. What has this country done to remove the warrant if I received a ruling from the BiH Prosecutor's Office? That's the problem, what's going to happen. I said, my parliamentary question was, "What about the citizens of BiH who have been processed?" And last time Minister Čolak answered those things: three thousand people were processed. Do we know that, did we know that? We didn't know. I just, I say, as 13 citizens of BiH without whether seliti is involved, I have advocated and I advocate that we take the view that BiH must have a legal system in which it will punish all those who committed the crime, without distinction to nationality. If that's how we accept it, then we're not going to politicize things. Thank you.
ParlaMint-BA_2010-03-10-0.u32865	Thank you. Dear Ambassador Denis Bećirović, replica. Here you go.
ParlaMint-BA_2010-03-10-0.u32866	So first, it should be noted that all these topics proposed today by the SDP MPs' Club of BiH were proposed in time and in accordance with the Rules of Procedure under which the House of Representatives works. And it would have been good if we had specifically discussed, if we had gotten the information we wanted, and today we joined the realisation of the agenda that is ahead of us. Unfortunately, it seems to me that individuals have consciously made a replacement of the thesis and turned away from those topics that we should have talked about today and these topics proposed by the SDP Club specifically. We even went so far as to discuss the character of individual parties, etc. The SDP club doesn't need anyone to prove some facts from Dejton to this day, and this is the fifth convocation, a multiethnic party in this parliament, so in all the councils. Furthermore, when it comes to concrete and one of today's SDP proposals, we should also remind ourselves of the fact that seven days ago, we officially sent an initiative to get relevant information and that today we have a agenda point that was supposed to read exactly: 'Advising information on the arrest and launch of warrants against BiH citizens', so all BiH citizens, 'with special reference to the case of Ilija Jurišić and Ejup Ganić', which is very important, 'and to propose measures to protect BiH citizens'. We expected without this proposal to adequately respond to the Council of Ministers, especially within the Council of Ministers of Justice, the Ministry of Security and the Ministry of Human Rights and Refugees. Until this moment, we have not received any information, nor has he received any information from the College of the House of Representatives. And the key question here for all MPs and we need to talk about it, is: Why does the Council of Ministers not respect this highest legislative body, Parliament? This is not the first time that opposition and position representatives know this very well, there is an exact list of over 200 conclusions, an initiative by this parliament that the Council of Ministers has not realised. This cannot happen in any parliament in the world, nor would any parliament that elected a government in any European and wider country allow it. So it would be good if we could talk a little bit about such a negligent relationship between the Council of Ministers and the BiH Parliament, rather than turn away from concrete topics and concrete proposals that I recall are fully in line with the Rules of Procedure. So, in order not to spread too many stories, it would be good to get relevant information and open a serious debate. The SDP is looking for this in continuity, not just today; I remind you that we had a debate in June, July, 2007 14
ParlaMint-BA_2010-03-10-0.u32867	Time!
ParlaMint-BA_2010-03-10-0.u32868	When the SDP MPs' Club asked for a debate on Budimir Nikolić, Selim Bešlagić, Ilija Jurišić, etc., including 2008. etc., however, we have a problem and this country has to answer a key problem, which is: Why does the Republic of Serbia not want to deal with problems with the BiH state friendlyly? When I say this, it is clear and especially the people of the Justice Ministry know what this is about, since it was a proposal and BiH to do it in a civilized way, but the Republic of Serbia obviously does not accept such a way of solving the problem.
ParlaMint-BA_2010-03-10-0.u32869	Please turn off your cell phones. Dear Ambassador Drago Kalabić, replica. Here you go.
ParlaMint-BA_2010-03-10-0.u32870	So here I am all the time trying to prove or at least say that we're not going in the right direction, and that's fortunate or unfortunately easy to prove how transparent these settings are. This means that here today we should bring to the Zvornik group that was tried in Belgrade, which has inconclusive evidence that they committed war crimes, that it should have been in this parliament... Why didn't you put them together, former president of Zvornik Municipality, why didn't you put them together with Ilija Jurišić and everyone else? How did you get into a situation to isolate, by what method? National, religious, political, if we talk about BiH citizens? Just leave it alone, we're not talking about the citizens of BiH, we're not talking about, no one here has ever mentioned this Zvornik man, I've memorized the names of Mr. Ilija Jurišić a hundred thousand times, and I want him to get rid of it. But how can I accept the story of mentioning it a hundred thousand times, not to mention these others at all because they are Srbin, they are guilty, it is their fault in advance and can be caught by Albania, and Croatia, and Serbia, and Slovenia, and everyone else and we will not react to it. That's what this is about. How can you when the BiH state and its top authorities say two members of the presidency will not go to Serbia, will not cooperate, the fruit and non-cooperation is what we have. Gentlemen, when they meet in judicial co-operation as Mr. Džaferović discusses the Roman path, when two prosecutors sit down and bring their papers and exchanges, do you, Mr. Džaferović, invite drug criminals in Belgrade to call on the citizenship of BiH and that with two or three kilos of heroin and cocaine, no one should arrest them, no arrests, no arrests, no warrants, but simply call on them to be citizens of BiH. Mr. Džaferović, I, too, advocate to come to this discussion to ask if it is a message from the Prosecutor's Office and Prosecutor Veselin Vlahović Batko: why are you in Spain, why aren't you here, walking around, arresting you, is that a message? And I'm waiting for that debate, and I want what you're saying to discuss here, to see what the message from BiH means, and I don't want to quote Mr. Tihić's statement behind it. Mr. Tihić hit the srid, people here don't do their job because of these problems and they don't work, it's true, the people of BiH who I won't say are guilty and not guilty of, but to turn myself into a courtroom, so here I can figure out who I'm going to say is guilty and 15 people should be arrested at any part of the globe, and who I'm going to say is not guilty and should not be missing hair from his head – I don't think so, I call on the others not to get into that story. We do not want to open cases in Parliament, and we, when the debates are and when the annual reports of the High Court and Prosecutorial Council and the Prosecutor's Office are – then we talk about it. The independent judiciary is not reached by decree, it is gained by trust. The independent judiciary of England if you think it's preserved because it says it's independent, it's not true. It gained credibility with its behavior for hundreds of years, and that's why it's independent, not because someone wrote that it's dependent.
ParlaMint-BA_2010-03-10-0.u32871	Time!
ParlaMint-BA_2010-03-10-0.u32872	I am ending and thus calling on Parliament to stop once, because Kalimer's policy in this House will not go away. In RS, to be honest, there were these stories in '97. We've been through all of this, and you've been through this, and we're done. Now it's up to someone else to swallow a frog, it's no longer a frog, it's a frog, but what we can do, so the time has come and...
ParlaMint-BA_2010-03-10-0.u32873	Dear Ambassador Slavko Jovičić, replica. Here you go.
ParlaMint-BA_2010-03-10-0.u32874	Dear Chairman, honourable members of the Council of Ministers, ladies and gentlemen, to shorten these greetings. So this shows the situation of this country. First and foremost, can anyone really say that they believe in the BiH Court and the Prosecutor's Office, if the chief prosecutor says – whom I rightly called an accomplice through the media – that Mr Ganić should not have travelled outside BiH. And he, the chief prosecutor, and I expect him to have justice for the Serb people and the Serb victims before that court and the prosecution. That'll be another question when the agenda comes, if this goes away at all. Secondly, there are stenograms, and I keep referring to it, five times at least in this House, and I'm not going to call anyone a demagogy story, it's what it is, just when it comes to the Zvornik group, and then I insisted on seeing if they are BiH citizens and why they are tried in Belgrade, and not tried in the BiH Court of Justice. No Niko answered. I don't know if they were there, but not to go into it now if they were defending or not. Here are two key things, starting with Ilija Jurišić, now this case is Mr. Ganić, but if the agenda is to be placed, there will be many questions. First, at whose expense goes there, and then as the embassy puts the full service to Mr. Ganić, his children and associates, I don't know who else, etc., etc. Well, then we shouldn't forget these demonstrations in Sarajevo that are a very 16-threat threat to the Serbian people, is that it said: by any means possible we will stop you. And all possible means are everything, so it's not rhetoric, it's not a stick, and it's not even me. Furthermore, the attack on the Serbian Embassy in Sarajevo, it was a physical attack, it was an attack on Serbia's territory, but I'm not defending Serbia, I want to say something else. Statements that are very dangerous should end diplomatic relations with Serbia, so stop, gentlemen, if you decide. But you who defend Mr Ganić in this way, and yet do not know if he is guilty, I will not say that he is guilty, you establish relations with Serbian representatives in this parliament and do not bring us to have problems with us all the time, and we do not want them. Why? Because you'll all say when the Srbin is taken, applause is in Sarajevo, it's a celebration salvah, I've watched the columns and I haven't defended anyone. When nothing has been solved and every country under international law has to judge in its area those who are accused of war crimes, which is done by Norway, Sweden, Germany, the United States, why England would not conduct an investigation, we'll see what happens. It is not yet known, nothing is yet, but it is such an bloated atmosphere in Sarajevo as if everything is thundering – Ganić has gone. First of all, he needs to be asked where he got his diplomatic passport, who gave it to him. There was once something in the name of a people, on behalf of a Serb people never elected and represented, even falsely introduced himself as Yugoslav to pass, but there will be a story, slowly if we open up, you will hear everything then. But don't just run for that Ilija Jurišić, Ejup Ganić, is it justified, it is not justified. And don't, gentlemen of the SDP, I really want friendly relations with you like everybody else.
ParlaMint-BA_2010-03-10-0.u32875	Time!
ParlaMint-BA_2010-03-10-0.u32876	Today, you remembered all BiH citizens, and you never represented all BiH citizens.
ParlaMint-BA_2010-03-10-0.u32877	Thank you. Dear Ambassador Husein Nanić, replica. Here you go.
ParlaMint-BA_2010-03-10-0.u32878	I thank you, Chairman. Here, I would like to replicate to Mr Kalabić about his views on Parliament's relationship with interference in the jurisdiction of the judiciary, the prosecution, etc. I would ask him to be principled because in the previous exhibition, we heard that he unreservedly supports the initiative to introduce the new agenda point proposed by Mr Okolić. Which says he's guilty and he's, by name and last name, and he's filing a criminal report, he's just missing out to say how much he's convicted of. And we have a contradictory and completely... explanation regarding the motion of this point. As I understand it, the SNSD Club wants to discuss this issue and I 17 think it would be good to conclude these other replicas and finally move on to a statement that this point enters the agenda that is proposed.
ParlaMint-BA_2010-03-10-0.u32879	Thank you. The Republic has a dear MP, Zlatko Lagumdžija. Here you go.
ParlaMint-BA_2010-03-10-0.u32880	Mr. Chairman, given that we have been very precise in proposing,
ParlaMint-BA_2010-03-10-0.u32881	That's what bothers tech...
ParlaMint-BA_2010-03-10-0.u32882	I didn't hear, I'm sorry, Mr. Džaferović, it's not my...
ParlaMint-BA_2010-03-10-0.u32883	Nothing, it's technical issues there, it's not cell phones,
ParlaMint-BA_2010-03-10-0.u32884	My cell phone, I'd at least get in my cell...
ParlaMint-BA_2010-03-10-0.u32885	They're technical problems.
ParlaMint-BA_2010-03-10-0.u32886	It is, well, since we... four concrete, precise interventions on the agenda, I would just like to remind once again that the mass of what happened today in our initiatives has nothing to do with this and in a certain way we would not want to be someone who would be responsible for everything that has been said today, and it has nothing to do with what we have proposed, and people have spoken about our initiatives. We're insulted here, Mr. Chairman, we're called quasi-democratic, quasi-cultural, semi-patriotic, etc., etc., that we don't represent citizens, I don't know who we represent. We are accused of not representing one, the other and the third people, all of which we have experienced. But let me remind you. ________(?) [[no microphone turned on]] You can't hear, can you? Yeah, okay. Here, so a little louder in order that at least whoever wants to hear me can't claim he couldn't. When it comes to the agenda point of Ganić and Jurišić, I would like very clearly to underline once again that it is for Jurišić, especially, and we will see for Ganić, for many of them it is too late, for them two it is too late to be more or less. We can help 18, but we can't avoid that accident that happened. But we can avoid happening to an ordinary man or to some perhaps even an unusual man, no matter what nation he is, only if he is a citizen of BiH; based on this, many of the discussions we have heard here today could contribute not to it, and that is why we are initiating it. We also heard nothing, no response regarding Light. Also, once again, Mr. Chairman,... I have expected and appealed to some people here, I ask you once again to call on Minister Sadik Ahmetović or Chairman Špirić to show us about this scandalous memo to the Security Council, so that we do not discuss it again for others. I know that Mr. Sredoje Nović is a formational even a little in charge of it, I'm sure we'd get an answer, would we like it, but a man certainly wouldn't say I don't know. He probably knows better than those who should know, but I don't expect him to say it. So, we have a problem here sitting ministers who can't formalally answer that question, and I'm sure they do. And so I would ask you once again to try to influence this point and not come to the agenda, to have someone calm us and the citizens of this country and there's no reason for that point of the agenda. And finally, as far as the Action Plan is concerned, I want to make it clear once again, since we are being accused of having a fear of success here, since we're being accused, is that that's who now is success at the dock, so we're rebelling now. So, we wish you luck, we wish you this success, we will not participate in your success, we will not spoil your idyll leading to success. We signed the obligation in April 2002 to do this, then you succeeded in January 2003, and none of that would have happened. In April 2006, we agreed to participate in a package that solved all this and much more than that, and so we failed to help you. Here you are in April 2010, go ahead, make your own success. And we will applaud you in this House, but really don't expect us to...
ParlaMint-BA_2010-03-10-0.u32888	Time!
ParlaMint-BA_2010-03-10-0.u32889	And don't hide behind our initiative. Thank you. Mr. Chairman, I'm done.
ParlaMint-BA_2010-03-10-0.u32890	Now it's time.
ParlaMint-BA_2010-03-10-0.u32891	Don't hide behind our initiative, this is what the Action Plan and the names are made in the Council of Ministers' Decision, this is not our initiative. You're in a position to spoil our initiative and then accuse us of our initiative, so you'd ruin the hammer, let alone the initiative. 19
ParlaMint-BA_2010-03-10-0.u32892	It's Givitat.
ParlaMint-BA_2010-03-10-0.u32893	So I repeat, this action plan is not our plan, this Council decision is not our decision. If someone from the SDP, some expert worker is responsible for not realizing what he wrote, don't worry, we'll handle it properly. Thank you.
ParlaMint-BA_2010-03-10-0.u32894	Thank you. Dear Ambassador Ekrem Ajanović. Here you go.
ParlaMint-BA_2010-03-10-0.u32895	Mr. Chairman, colleagues and colleagues, I have applied for a replica and a proposal. I'll use two minutes to suggest both.
ParlaMint-BA_2010-03-10-0.u32896	Here you go.
ParlaMint-BA_2010-03-10-0.u32897	The replica first. I think... that Serbia is a country with long-standing diplomacy and long-standing experience and that it does not need to be specifically defended by people sitting in the BiH Parliament, because it knows how to defend itself and it will defend itself, it is only an accident that Serbia is leading in BiH two arches,... in two ways working. In one way, to present himself as a friend of Bosnia, and in another way to use all the circumstances to damage BiH, a developing young country. And therefore, what Barašin said, he told the truth, and that is that whoever knows that there is no Serbian warrant, no matter what one way or another, he should not walk anywhere, because it is true, they do not respect international law and they do not use international law. It's a replica. And secondly, the initiative is to put one point in the agenda today that I wanted to propose and write and look for a word, although I didn't get it at a joint session of both homes, and my dear colleague then told me that the College was determining for a joint session of the agenda and that nothing else could be included. That is why I am taking the opportunity with a small delay and I demand that the debate be placed on the agenda of why and who banned the holding of the BiH Independence Day session at the Parliamentary Forum in the Grand Hall of the Assembly, where the decision was made, the historic decision to hold a referendum on the sovereign and independent BiH, whose fortunately I was a member and myself. And, in particular, I stress that that day these same parliamentarians, which means your colleagues, however older and former, did not make such a decision, we would now not sit in this room, would not many receive personal incomes that are quite... large (cannot be large, a parliamentarian cannot have a large personal income, but are quite sums) and... for his work or not. And that's why I suggest that this point be placed on the agenda. 20
ParlaMint-BA_2010-03-10-0.u32898	Thank you. Dear Ambassador Mirko Okolić, replica. Here you go.
ParlaMint-BA_2010-03-10-0.u32899	Thank you, Mr. Chairman. Replica told Mr. Nanić that I had already convicted someone in advance at the candidates' agenda, he said. I have to deny it, and I think my request for a new point is very correct, in accordance with the Rules of Procedure, and in accordance with what actually happened. Here, I'm going to have to read it to see that I didn't accuse anyone, even though there might have been a reason, but it's not the jurisdiction to accuse me. He says, "Day 1. 3. In 2010, which is marked by an entity, the Federation, in BiH as the Day of Independence of BiH, by former SDA MP Ibran Mustafić, a hall was broken into by the BiH Parliamentary Assembly." That's why they have evidence attached to this material that it's been broken. If we open the debate, and don't be afraid, accept the agenda, we'll open the debate, and then you prove that the man didn't break into the O.R., I support it, it's no problem for us to discuss it. If you do not want to support the agenda point as I have suggested, you know that it is, and thus you will try not to discuss it. For the purpose of proof, I deliver what I said here, that I don't read, so both images and texts are visible, etc. and from the federal press and from the press of the RS, etc. Furthermore, the conclusions that are very important nowhere said that someone was convicted, and said, "Finse one. The House of Representatives strongly condemns the vandal act of breaking and violent entry into the BiH Parliamentary Assembly's hall." Prove that the door wasn't broken and it didn't go violently there, I accept it and no problem is there, I didn't say from who, nor did I want to explain who broke in at all, etc. in this your conclusion. It doesn't stand, it's through the debate that we're going to get to who broke in or you're going to try to deny it isn't. 'Command 2. That the Joint College of the two homes of the Parliamentary Assembly of BiH file criminal charges against Ibran Mustafić, possibly others, as guilty of breaking into the BiH Hall." By filing criminal charges, it is not said that someone is guilty or convicted, but that they have a reasonable suspicion that this was done. If it is proven that he has nothing to do with it, criminal reporting falls, he means he has no consequences, even when he's filling out a questionnaire on a security clearance, and there won't even be a problem with that. 'Finishment 3. To inform this Parliament what this was about, whether or not a criminal report has been filed." So that's it. 21 As for Mr. Ajanović's discussion, I can fully agree with the proposal for a agenda point that he proposes the same. If there is support for this point that you are going to deny whether someone broke in or didn't break in, or if you accept reality that way, so will I accept the reality of seeing if there are any acts or something that exist anywhere; you will probably prove to us that there is some kind of act or document that someone has banned the celebration etc., etc., or it's something else entirely.
ParlaMint-BA_2010-03-10-0.u32900	Time!
ParlaMint-BA_2010-03-10-0.u32901	Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-BA_2010-03-10-0.u32902	It's only 12:00 and we're moving on. Dear Ambassador Drago Kalabić, replica. Here you go.
ParlaMint-BA_2010-03-10-0.u32903	Well, here's the second line for me, I have to answer, even though I didn't mean to answer. Surely I did not speak unprincipledly today, my colleague, Nanić, tried to challenge me. I supported the point, the proposal of Mirko Okolić with what he said. I didn't go into his explanation at all, and his proposal for a point was: 'A consideration of breaking and entering the BiH Parliamentary Assembly's gym.' I didn't judge anyone, and I didn't do anything wrong at all. But this is our building, it's been broken in here, and I think home education requires you to discuss it... In America who comes with a slingshot around the White House, immediately arrests him and immediately goes there... they keep people to the state; here you break in and put a lock around our necks and like you don't; let's not let others, but the rest of us who are here, they'll break into our safe, they'll break into our rooms. So, for that reason, I was saying we should at least discuss it. When Mr. Nanić answered, to be honest, I thought he would ask for Fikret Abdić, believe me, I was thinking in myself the first member of the presidency, the man who won the most votes in BiH's history in the democratic elections, the second state judges him. BiH doesn't ask about it as much as last year's snow, but I thought if it's in this BiH citizen story that he's in it. _________(?) [[no microphone turned on]] So please, it has BiH citizenship, it has BiH citizenship and it is the same. So please, please, please make it your turn, chair, to listen to each other a little bit, these are the things that matter. 22
ParlaMint-BA_2010-03-10-0.u32905	No, he won't, he won't, he won't, he won't,
ParlaMint-BA_2010-03-10-0.u32906	So, if someone wants it in principle, it means principle. My colleague Dolić spoke earlier about some things that we were not principled about, and I certainly did not go below the principle of today. Mr. Ajanović, I did not defend or have any need, thank Bog there was no need, the state of Serbia, but I wanted to say that it was a country no matter who liked it or didn't like it, the neighbouring state. And as Bog, I'm asking people to let the state with the state solve its problems, and it's not like they're running away and that's why the citizens have problems. That's what this is about. The BiH state will not see Serbia as a state, and thanks to the fact, these problems that countries can solve and people have problems are not solved, that is the point. It's time for us to understand that states with states have to solve their problems. Mr. Selim Bešlagić said what he said and I can stand behind that, that he got that paper. But don't you think we're looking for another piece of paper? It's not Selim Bešlagić, but who it is. The dead people in the Tuzlan column are an irrefutable fact, I don't think there's any insolence that someone won't say those people weren't killed and we never insisted on saying that he did it, don't God Bog, Selim Bešlagić. But we have the right to insist on who it is; but if your message is that the point is that it is not Selim Bešlagić, there is no point. We never insisted that it was you, but we did insist on saying who it was, which is why it's not said, what's the reason it doesn't end, but we both get us and you and the real problems that it doesn't end. And then, those who can't talk about it, who are silent, why it doesn't end.
ParlaMint-BA_2010-03-10-0.u32907	Time!
ParlaMint-BA_2010-03-10-0.u32908	We're just looking (people, ending it) for the state authorities to do their job, not to politicize the matter. If they'd done their job, we wouldn't have had a lot of these problems, we wouldn't have. I'm sorry that Mr. Lagumdžija came out, we weren't dealing with it, we were dealing with their club's problems for two hours, and this is what the SDP dragged us into for: we were justly angry, supporting their initiative, we supported it correctly, and then we came to the situation that these people we supported at once were the real problem in Parliament, even though they could have done it before. You can withdraw from the commission, but you can't deny us this if we didn't support it. If you're saying now that we don't have a chance of success, well, you knew that even when you put up with the initiative, you knew that even then that most of them had no chance of success, then you shouldn't have submitted the initiative, but no, you were optimistic too. And I thought I'd tell Mr. Lagumdžija...
ParlaMint-BA_2010-03-10-0.u32909	Time! 23
ParlaMint-BA_2010-03-10-0.u32910	If he had an obligation to the hammer, the hammer could be broken, the gig could not be broken, but because of the one with the sickle and the hammer: the hammer falls a little bit, so you don't have a hammer, and the gig can't be broken, it's still no one...
ParlaMint-BA_2010-03-10-0.u32911	Dear Ambassador Sefer Halilović, replica. Here you go.
ParlaMint-BA_2010-03-10-0.u32912	I really didn't mean it, but here's half an hour I'm struggling to say a few sentences or not. And in the end, I decided to say a few sentences, I think I can be a message; whether or not someone will accept them, to tell you the truth, and in the end, I don't care. I think that the problem between us is here and no one here can say that from the beginning to the end was principled, we didn't react even when it was tried by some BiH citizens in Western European countries, from Sweden to Germany, Denmark, we didn't react even when it happened in Croatia and we only started to react recently and I think in a completely wrong way. That's why we should look into it when the work of the court and the prosecution is analysed here, then it should very precisely show that the problems our citizens have around the world are caused by our court and the prosecution's unhappiness. Because, finally, yesterday, we heard a statement from the president of the SDA, the strongest currently party in BiH, that because of this lack of the work of the court and the prosecution, I went through a goal that lasted more than six years, so much about it. So, I think it should be some common denominator, a common position that this parliament advocates in the future or makes some conclusion that it will continue to advocate for all BiH citizens, from the Zvornik Group, through Fikret Abdić to Ilija Jurišić, Ejup Ganić and all others who are found to be tried in BiH and thus asked by the judiciary, from the BiH Prosecutor's Office to react in time. The other is a question that has been very busy with me and interests me these days, which is an attempt to politicise and collect cheap political points in the case and in the accident that took place by Ejup Ganić. Those who help him, be sure, those who think they're helping him, be sure not to help him, because all that's happening these days, since the demonstrations, the signing of petitions, the attempts here at Parliament to discuss it is politicizing and I'm just giving you the theme of thinking. Could this be an English judge's argument to say: Ejup Ganić will not be organised a fair trial in BiH because he will be under strong political pressure. When the process begins, then the facts tell, don't speak the street. I ask you to take this thing and take it to the knowledge, and continue to behave as you please. Only, if I understood, to help him -- to be tried in BiH. Help him in such a way as to ensure that the Court and the D.A. do their job. The street and petitions won't help, but there may be an argument for the judge to say: there won't be a fair trial in Bosnia and then it'll end up somewhere else. Thank you. 24
ParlaMint-BA_2010-03-10-0.u32913	Thank you. Let's move on. Sadik Bahtić, replica. Here you go.
ParlaMint-BA_2010-03-10-0.u32914	Thank you. It's a replica to everyone who's spoken so far. Because here's how much time we've spent, we haven't really done anything, and we have so many important laws ahead of us. I understand that the election year, that SDP is trying to get cheap political points as always. We have a College, we have an extended college, we agree on a agenda, they have the right MPs to present the initiative now, but when carrying out these initiatives, the minority is being debated on that point as if it was adopted on the agenda. So, the whole story ends, that's the goal. In my opinion, it's a classic political demagogy. Also, I can't hear it here when they say we won't, so we won't, so a hundred times we won't. Well, no one forces anyone if they don't. You suggested your member, so you won't. No problem at all. What's the problem now? This isn't the system that has to. That's when it had to be, now nothing has to be done. This is democracy, we all understand that. And I'm sorry, here they all see, the man comes here just to give lectures, show, ten minutes, half an hour and leave. It's a more expensive MP, count on a minute of cost as long as he's in Parliament, as much as he's in committees, and everything's hollow. Hammer, he knows how to break a hammer. How many innocent people were on a naked island that he, like him, was sending people... a hammer. And the hammer breaks. That's right, that's what he should know. He dreams of a red leather jacket, a machine gun and of sending these like me, who don't think like him, to the naked island. He's got a hammer there, probably somewhere in the reserve. But with this demagogy and a hollow story, they'll never see it coming, and this whole story comes down to me, our institutions, the state institutions aren't doing their job, so what's happening to us is happening to us. Thank you.
ParlaMint-BA_2010-03-10-0.u32915	Thank you. Dear Ambassador Denis Bećirović has a replica. Here you go.
ParlaMint-BA_2010-03-10-0.u32916	I think we should go back to the agenda today. To be declared specifically on the proposed initiatives. All that was in line with the Rules of Procedure to plead in accordance with the Rules of Procedure, and in what situation we are here, there is also a reaction of people. When you invite them to work in accordance with the Rules of Procedure and the agenda, it seems to have become strange in this House. 25 But I only want to make one concrete proposal to speed up this debate on the agenda as soon as possible and to approach the realization of today’s agenda. As far as this proposal is concerned, Mr Okolić, I propose that we do not deal with the consequences in this House, we do not deal with individual events and incidents, we do not deal with the causes of the problem. Today on the agenda here we have yet to declare as the 18th item of the agenda is foreseen and reads "The Proposed Law on the Holidays of BiH". I propose that today we talk seriously about this and solve problems under this point and this law and prevent any future excesses on this issue. And I call upon my colleague Okolić to withdraw this item of the agenda, and indeed constructively within the 18th point of the agenda, let us deal with this issue.
ParlaMint-BA_2010-03-10-0.u32917	Thank you. Dear Ambassador Ekrem Ajanović, replica. Here you go.
ParlaMint-BA_2010-03-10-0.u32918	Now the question arises whether to replicate or not, because there is no Kalabić, but I still have this one false quote to correct it. Kalabić often leads to a replacement of thesis, so that's how he told me that Serbia recognises BiH, but Bosnia does not recognise Serbia, which is obviously a replacement of thesis. Because if Serbia so openly recognised Bosnia and wants BiH to develop its way in its own way as all three peoples want it and not only declared, then probably it would not have done what it did, which has never been done in diplomatic practice, which is that it has three times refused to accept the agremations of an independent state as ambassador to Belgrade. And secondly, I would say to him, or I could ask Kalabić why they threw 52 moons from Prijedor to Tešanj during the war, but I won't ask him that question, and they fired so many, and because I know the answer: they fired them because they had them. And secondly, because they were afraid of us.
ParlaMint-BA_2010-03-10-0.u32919	Dear Ambassador Mirko Okolić. Here's Dobojli. He's got a replica. Here you go. Mirko Okolić has a replica. The Dobolji has a replica.
ParlaMint-BA_2010-03-10-0.u32920	It would be good if we didn't discuss grenades, but those in charge, because then you'll have to listen to me say how much a day grenade fell through Doboy and how many whole families were killed in the same second by grenades that were certainly not fired from Doboy's Doboy. But here, I'll leave that for later. 26 However, I will replicate to Mr Denis Bećirović, who suggested that I give up, or withdraw my proposal to run for a new agenda. I can't do it for just one practical reason, and that's because by pulling my agenda, I would send a message to all those who, until the adoption of this law on national holidays or some other law that regulates decent, normal, democratic, civilized and other behavior, can do whatever they want. So, you can't do what you want, all the way up to that point, or under the pretense that there's no holiday law, and that's not regulated at all. That's not allowed. Furthermore, what happens if I now withdraw this item of the agenda and give a message to the Srbin or to someone else, I will list the Srbin who celebrate Badnjica at 9-10 p.m. on Christmas Eve or who celebrate the morning of Christmas which is 4:00 a.m., we come to Parliament to celebrate it, the door locked and broke into Parliament. What would that look like? And we say, we wait for this holiday law to be passed and for Christmas to be Orthodox, Catholic, Bajram, or I don't know, to be included in the law, and until then we have the right to break into the BiH institution as the highest legislative body, into its premises, and to celebrate it finely there, or mark what we wanted to mark. I don't think that's how it works. And I think running away from including this part of the agenda is a confession of guilt that is evident. If someone convinces me that there was no moment that the door was broken or broken, (terminology is not important at all, it is essential), and we will adapt the termology to everyone as he wants it to be, but we cannot prove by terminology that the door is not violently broken, or broken. If it's a break-in, it's immediately understood that it's violent, or it's not broken, because it proves a corpus delict on the spot. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-BA_2010-03-10-0.u32921	Thank you. Dear Ambassador Martin Raguž, replica. Here you go.
ParlaMint-BA_2010-03-10-0.u32922	Thank you. Replication in the form of a proposal. I have no claim to give my colleagues and club presidents any lessons or to remind us here that this country doesn't have time for this kind of debate. It's really not my ambition to have her people waiting for us to do something in this House, so I'm going to suggest that we end the Expansive College Institute. I think he's completely out of line. We took the time yesterday, came on behalf of the clubs, the parties we represent and agreed on the agenda for today's session, where all these proposals could have been proposed yesterday and should have been. And I think here's what I'm going to ask for is a statement on that proposal and we're going to cancel either one or the other. So, then, that the Expansive College be a debate on the agenda for every session of the House of Representatives, not to meet, not to spend money and space, people's time and not to deceive the public, or to have people or parties who don't use that institute withdraw nicely from that institute and enable people who want to and that they are then running here and not to use both places for that kind of question. 27 Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-BA_2010-03-10-0.u32923	Thank you. Slavko Jovičić, discussion. Here you go.
ParlaMint-BA_2010-03-10-0.u32924	Well, Your Honor, we already have a agenda item number 17. Proposal for a law amending and supplementing the Service Act in the Armed Forces. I don't know if you've all seen it, but let's at least do this, we can do this. That doesn't mean we'll work under pressure. Two hundred people waiting here in front of Parliament, engaged strong police forces, all from the tram, from the bus watching, I want to tell you some other situation, I don't know, and I don't want that to happen ever, not today. When someone sees a group of 100 people, he goes there to see what they're doing, so he joins. Now, that's how this assembly was shot down by truckers, tadwitters, buses, just see a group, everybody joins in, they don't know what it is. People came quietly to listen, that's what they hear. They don't do demonstrations. I talked to them, they called me, very correct. But let's put this away, so that this point 17, let's say, you move to one to fit 4. - 5. - 3rd place, so that people don't stand there all day. But I stress that, whether she is 17 or 27 or 107 or 3, we will not work under pressure and under their demands rather than what Parliament is obliged to do. Well, if only the poor people didn't hate each other there. And this one, whether it's here or there, they're still warm, and they're one cold poor thing waiting for a decision to be made for them. So if you guys in college can work it out, bring some kind of a deal, I'm not saying it's either the 3rd or the 4th or the 1st or the 6th, but let's speed it up, so people don't hate it for nothing. We'll go to lunch, they'll wait there again. So let's cut that procedure short so they don't stand in the field. Thank you.
ParlaMint-BA_2010-03-10-0.u32925	You have probably seen that the opinion of the Joint Commission is negative, but we can rephrase your proposal if you agree. That the 9th point of the agenda is because the first reading is going immediately, and that's the first reading and first reading, as the first reading to go as point 9 if you agree? Okay, thanks. Replica, Savo Erić. Here you go.
ParlaMint-BA_2010-03-10-0.u32926	I support this pity from Mr. Jovičić. We could have finished one three or four points by now and maybe five if we wanted to. 28 I would only remind myself that in this land, in the last 3.5 years, how many of us, many people, have we never debated what they hanged, that hundreds of people died in a car accident in this country, we did not ask why they died. That we had security houses we couldn't put people in and all that, and that was our job to do. If we had replaced some ministers when we were supposed to change and when they were initiatives, we probably wouldn't have such empty stories today and a circus idea of the serious topics we've been in for decades and something... And the question is whether we want to extend it or move on. And obviously we can't come to the question of continuing to do exactly what our job is and what our jurisdiction and what we can do. I really suggest that we keep this agenda and move on to the agenda, not to do an empty story. Thank you.
ParlaMint-BA_2010-03-10-0.u32927	Thank you. The second deputy chairman, Beriz Belkić. Here you go.
ParlaMint-BA_2010-03-10-0.u32928	Dear colleagues and colleagues, I really didn't have the steel nerve to endure more than two and a half hours and announce myself, so I answered. I've listened very patiently to everything that's been said here and it's not my intention, and I absolutely have no intention of putting this thing back together, because we usually go out and say we break the lines, and then we open up new ones. I was convinced after yesterday's session of the Expansive College that we had really solved these previous issues. We were like the College in the narrow line, proposing the agenda to the extended college, in the dilemma about the Action Plan, whether to put it on the agenda immediately or consult with the Expansive College. So, this agenda, not getting into details, of course, what who said, as he said, etc. and the right to change things. This agenda was agreed yesterday. Of course, no one contests, I'm sure every MP has the right to attend this session and after an extended college to come up with ideas, initiatives, questions, etc. However, the question arises, of course my party and I individually have initiatives of this kind, which are current, we think are current, that we should talk about them here, but none of us is working to try to pave the way for it to be something. So we don't have any previous consultations before the session on someone's initiative, trying to get support, and then going in, what I mean is, then we get into a situation where we're fully aware that the result is equal to zero. And now the question is, on the one hand, whether the right initiative, the actuality, etc., on the other hand, here, today's session has 10-12 laws that don't happen every session. So we have a few new laws. They are all important for the European way, too, etc. I don't even know if we're aware of when we're gonna be in a position to talk. Here, everything proposed today as a agenda, this Parliament will come forward. And it seems to me that when 29 of us discuss these initiatives, we go where we came from, to grenades, to the people, to whose position, who signed what they signed in 2002, who acted like this, who acted like this. I really appeal to all of us, I'm saying this with the position of the man who sits in the College, along with his two colleagues, and this is what Martin was talking about, the man who's sitting on that extended college, and then the question is whether any of these two are excess -- or initiatives or this Expansive College. You have to understand that we feel very ugly. Thank you.
ParlaMint-BA_2010-03-10-0.u32929	Thank you. It's no offense to hear what we do every time again, but here we go. There are no more applications for discussion. I'm closing the debate. Let's take it in a row. First, we put the SDP Club's proposal to include the agenda item in the title: 'Action plan for the implementation of the European Court of Human Rights ruling in the case of Sejdić and Finc v BiH (the material of the Council of Ministers) and the Proposal for a plan for action to bring the BiH Constitution and the Election Law of BiH into force in order to implement the European Court of Human Rights in Strasbourg, case Sejfić-Finc (the material...). Central Election Commissions). That should be according to our schedule point 23. But the SDP Club has suggested that it be point... number 3. Business intervention, Mirko Okolić. Here you go.
ParlaMint-BA_2010-03-10-0.u32930	I just want an explanation which is why we first declare the SDP proposal when my proposal was first, and it is said in business that we are first making a statement about the proposal that was first made.
ParlaMint-BA_2010-03-10-0.u32931	I think Mrs. Malić first reported to the SDP Club for discussion and made an observation that it was not included in the agenda point, and I thought it was okay that her proposal was put in place first. But if that's the problem, we can also vote on your agenda, but let us work. I think it's quite... Please prepare for the vote as I read the SDP proposal for the agenda point to be the 3rd point. Prepare to vote. You can vote now! "For" is 21, "against" five, "sustained" five. Was it? Five. Insufficient entity majority, we have no consent in the College. We're going to the second round of voting. 30 Prepare to vote. You can vote now! "For" is 22, "against" six, "abstained" five; not enough two-thirds of the votes "against". I realize that, as I read it, we put it as the third item of the agenda. We're moving on. Dear MP Mirko Okolić suggested the point: 'Assessing the break-in and violent entry into the BiH Parliamentary Assembly Hall on 1st day. 3. 2010', as a item of the agenda... by the number of which?). Your suggestion? You want a fourth? The proposal for a agenda point is a proposal to put in a number. Please don't let us decide where we're going. Here's the SDP suggested number three. The order in which the College considers the laws to go in the first, second reading, etc. has been violated. You can suggest any part of the agenda.
ParlaMint-BA_2010-03-10-0.u32932	Yeah, I figured if I didn't suggest that the College could decide, but here's what I'm proposing behind the law.
ParlaMint-BA_2010-03-10-0.u32933	Behind the law. The secretary says it is a point 22 after the Commission's report to the College. Please prepare to vote. You can vote now! "For" is 12, "against" 18, "abstained" three; not enough general majority. This proposal didn't go through. We move on to the proposal of honourable MP Šefik Džaferović, who says it is necessary to put on the agenda 'Information of the Council of Ministers on the Depair of Professor Ejup Ganić's Freedom in Great Britain, on the basis of Serbia's request for extradition', and the agenda should be 26. Please prepare to vote. You can vote now! "For" is 20, "against" four, "sustained" eight; an insufficient entity majority. There's no consent. We're going to the second round. Please prepare to vote. You can vote now! "For" is 20, "against" five, "abstained" eight; there are no two-thirds of the votes "against". I figure we put it as the 26th item of the agenda. The next proposal is the honourable MP Zlatko Lagumdžija to be included in the agenda 'Information of the Council of Ministers on a letter from the UN Ministry of Security on the declaration of 31 individual organisations from BiH related to terrorist organisations and to put out of force documents that cause legal uncertainty of citizens and institutions in BiH'. Like the 27th agenda. Right? Thank you. Prepare to vote. You can vote now! "For" is 22, "against" three, "sustained" nine; an insufficient entity majority. We're going to the second round of voting. Please prepare to vote. You can vote now! "For" is 22, "against" four, "abstained" seven; not enough two-thirds of the vote against. I figure we put it as the 27th item of the agenda. We have a proposal by distinguished Professor Ajanović asking to be classified as a part of the agenda entitled 'I ask the College of both homes to explain immediately why they banned the holding of a BiH Independence Day session to the Parliamentary Forum in the Grand Hall of the Assembly, where a decision was taken to hold a referendum on sovereignty and independent BiH. I especially stress that on that day these same MPs (your former colleagues) did not make that decision, we would now not sit here and most would not receive a good amount of money for their work or work." The draft agenda item I received in writing from the honourable MP. And I read it literally.
ParlaMint-BA_2010-03-10-0.u32934	No microphone turned on
ParlaMint-BA_2010-03-10-0.u32935	And it's up to you to put or not put it in the agenda. Please prepare to vote. You can vote now! "For" is 19, "against" nine, "remained" five. We have no consent in the College. We're going to the second round of voting. Please prepare to vote. You can vote now! "For" is 20, "against" eight, "abstained" five, without two-thirds of the vote "against". I'm guessing we put this agenda item on item 29. 32 We have exhausted all the proposals, except for the proposal that came from the honourable MP Slavko Jovičić to move point 17. Please make a statement about this proposal. You can vote now! "For" is 30, "against" was not, "abstained" four. I find that we have made a change in the order of the agenda points. And please listen to the new agenda of the 73rd session of the House: 1. The adoption of the minutes from the 72nd session of the House of Representatives; 2. Parliament issues: (a) Comments on answers received, (b) New parliamentary issues; 3. Action plan for the implementation of the European Court of Human Rights ruling in the case of Sejdić and Finc v BiH (the Council of Ministers material) and the Proposal for a plan for action to comply with the BiH and Election Law in order to implement the European Court of Human Rights in Strasbourg in the case of Sejdić and Finc (the central electoral commission material); 4. Proposal for a Law on Anti-mining Action in Bosnia and Herzegovina, Proposer: Council of Ministers of BiH, Law No 01,02-02-8-54/09 of 3. Six. In 2009 (second reading), a delayed statement at the extension of the 71st session of the House, held on 10. 2. 2010; 5. Proposal for a Law on Amendments and Supplements to the Law on the Basicity of Traffic on Roads in Bosnia and Herzegovina, Proposer: Council of Ministers of BiH, Law No: 01, 02-02-3-8/10 of 19. 1. 2010 (second reading); 6. Proposal for a Law on Working Time, Mandatory Breaks of Mobile Workers and Road Transport Recording Devices, Proposer: Council of Ministers of BiH, Act No: 01,02-02–3-2/10 of 8. 1. 2010 (second reading); 7. Proposal for a Law amending the Law on Classification of Activities in Bosnia and Herzegovina, Proposer: Council of Ministers of BiH, Law No 01,02-02-7– 121/09 of 23. 12. In 2009 (second reading); 8 / 8 Proposal for a Law amending and supplementing the Law on Customs Policy of Bosnia and Herzegovina, Proposer: Council of Ministers of BiH, Law No 01,02-02-2-1/10 of 6. 1. 2010 (second reading); 9. Proposal for a law supplementing the Criminal Law of Bosnia and Herzegovina, Proposer: MP Denis Bećirović, Law No: 01-02-5-100 /09 of 30. Ten. 2009 (second reading); 10. Proposal for a Law amending and supplementing the Law on Service in the Armed Forces of Bosnia and Herzegovina, Proposer: MP Sefer Halilović, Law No: 01-02-8-22/10 of 16. 2. In 2010, with the opinion of the Joint Commission for Defence and Security of BiH; 11. Proposal for a law on the protection of geographical indications, Proposer: Council of Ministers of BiH, Law No 01, 02-02-3-18/10 of 3. 2. 2010 (first reading); 33 12. Proposal for a Law on the Protection of Topography of Integrated Cars, Proposer: Council of Ministers of BiH, Law No 01,02-02-2-16/10 of 3. 2. 2010 (first reading); 13. Proposal for a Law on Industrial Design, Proposer: Council of Ministers of BiH, Law No 01,02-02-2-15/10 of 3. 2. 2010 (first reading); 14. Proposal for a Mark Law, Proposer: Council of Ministers of BiH, Law No 01,02-02-5 -14/10 of 3. 2. In 2010 (first reading); 15 / 15 Prior to the patent law, Proposer: Council of Ministers of BiH, Law No 01.02-02-2-17/10 of 3. 2. 2010 (first reading); 16. Proposal for a Law on Amendments and Supplements to the Act on the Protection of Secret Information – Proposer: Council of Ministers of BiH, Act No 01.02-02-8-19/10 of 4. 2. 2010 (first reading); 17. Proposal for a Law on the Promotion of Small and Medium Enterprises and Entrepreneurship in Bosnia and Herzegovina, Proposer: Council of Ministers of BiH, Law No 01,02- 02-4-12/10 of 28. 1. 2010 (first reading); 18. Proposal for a law on amendments and additions to Bosnia and Herzegovina's Election Law, proposing: MPs Milorad Živković, Niko Lozančić and Šefik Džaferović, Law No: 01-02-9-20/10 of 10. 2. 2010 (first reading); 19. Proposal for a law on the holidays of Bosnia and Herzegovina, Proposer: MP Denis Bećirović, Law No: 01-02-9-13/10 of 2. 2. 2010 (first reading); 20. Proposal for a Law amending the Law on Public Procurement of Bosnia and Herzegovina, Proposer: Constitutional Commission, Law No: 01-02-4-21/10 of 16. 2. 2010 (first reading); 21. Proposal for Amendments II, III and IV to the Constitution of Bosnia and Herzegovina, Proposers: Members of the Party for Bosnia and Herzegovina, Amendment No: 01-01-10/10 of 15. 2. In 2010, with the opinion of the Constitutional Commission; 22. Commission report to the College on efforts to reach agreement on the draft law on the prevention of riots in sports competitions, Proposer: Ambassador Bakir Izetbegović, Law No: 01-02-7-7/10 of 19. 1. 2010 (the law in first reading); 23. Proposal for a revised strategy for Bosnia and Herzegovina to implement Annex VII of the Dayton Peace Agreement (the Human Rights and Refugees Act, issue 01-37-310 /10 of 15. 2. 2010); 24. Report on the work of the Citizens' Appeals Committee on the work of police officers in BiH police bodies for the period September - December 2009 (substance of the Committee on Citizens' Appeals, issue: 03-50-1-60-6-2/10 of 27. 1. 2010); 25. Information from the BiH Council of Ministers on the deprivement of Professor Ejup Ganić's freedom in Great Britain on the basis of Serbia's extradition requirements, (proposed by honourable MP Šefik Džaferović); 26. Information from the Council of Ministers on a letter from the UN Ministry of Security on the declaration of certain organisations from BiH related to terrorist organisations and repealing documents that threaten and create legal uncertainty for citizens and institutions in BiH, from distinguished MP Zlatko Lagumdžija; 34 28. Proposal for measures to improve the conditions of business in Bosnia and Herzegovina's agriculture and food industry (resumer: Council of Ministers, Act No: 05-28-21/10 of 8. 1. 2010); 29. Proposal for a conclusion of the Transport and Communications Commission of the BiH Parliamentary Assembly's House of Representatives on Information on activities so far on the digitisation of public broadcasting services in BiH; 30. Consideration of the conclusion of the Joint Committee on Human Rights, the rights of the child, young people, immigration, asylum and ethics from the 18th session held 5. 2. In 2009, which reads: "The Parliamentary Assembly of BiH is asked to launch an initiative towards the Office of the High Representative to review all decisions of the High Representative that have been removed from a person or that the High Representative will make a decision to transfer this authority to the BiH Ombudsman Institution or any other institution; Please? I think it was after all the information, that after that it was the other information, that I read it. I'm not that, am I? Yes, two more information means 31. Information on sanctioning executioners of verbal and physical objections against journalists in Bosnia and Herzegovina and a proposal for measures (the BiH Ministry of Security material, act No: 01-6-50-632-1/10 of 2. 2. 2010); 32. Information from the Ministry of Foreign Affairs of Bosnia and Herzegovina on the opening of Republika Srpska's foreign representation (Reference for the entry into the agenda: Foreign Affairs Commission), act No: 01/2a–50–2–59/10 of 3. 2nd and 19th. 2. 2010; 33. Proposal for a point of honourable MP Ajanović: 'I ask the Colleges of both homes to explain immediately why they have banned the holding of the BiH Independence Day session to the Parliamentary Forum in the Grand Hall of the Assembly, where a decision on the holding of a referendum on sovereignty and independent BiH has been made. I especially stress that on that day these same MPs (your former colleagues) did not make that decision, we would now not sit here and most would not receive fine sums of money for their work or unhappiness' (that is the name of the point you voted); 34. The appointment of three members from the House of Representatives at the Joint Commission of both homes for the alignment of the text of the Bosnia and Herzegovina tobacco law; 35. Request by the Commission of Investigation of the House of Representatives for the verification of the alleged distribution of CEMT licences for extension of the deadline for submission of the report to 31. 3. 2010; 36. Giving consent to ratification: (a) Credit agreement between Bosnia and Herzegovina and the Kuwaitan Fund for Arab Economic Development, Project Highway Kakanj – Donja Gračanica, (b) Air Traffic Agreement between the Council of Ministers of Bosnia and Herzegovina and the Government of the Arab Republic of Egypt, 35 c) Air Traffic Agreement between the Council of Ministers of Bosnia and Herzegovina and the Government of the Syrian Arab Republic, d) Agreement between the Council of Ministers of BiH and the Government of the Republic of Moldova on the mutual abolition of the visa regime for holders of diplomatic and official passports. I ask professional services to deliver a new agenda to the MPs, and we do not waste time and continue on the agenda. Dear MP Bećirović, a parliamentary intervention. Here you go.
ParlaMint-BA_2010-03-10-0.u32936	I just want to ask on behalf of the SDP Club as a proposing point of the agenda and point that we delivered seven days ago to you in the College: How will Parliament, Parliament's House of Representatives of Parliament be defined against this SDP proposal? So, we specifically suggested, not only today, but seven days ago, that today we have a agenda item "Advising information on the arrest and launch of warrants against BiH citizens by the Republic of Serbia, with special reference to the case of Ilija Jurišić and Ejup Ganić and the proposal for measures to protect BiH citizens". So, it was a proposal from the Members' Club and... you reminded it at the beginning and yesterday of the College, etc., and I think Parliament should make a statement about it. It is clear to me, as you do, that we have included this proposal from colleagues Džaferović who proposed it today, but he is still reduced only to Mr Ganić's question. We are looking for a full debate and full information on this issue, including the issue of Mr Ganić, and I think we should now declare it on the agenda.
ParlaMint-BA_2010-03-10-0.u32937	I think you missed the chance when I was saying that all the agenda points are on the vote that the new ones are proposed to say are voiced on your point as well. In the debate, we understand that you have agreed to this item of the agenda proposed by the esteemed Šefik Džaferović, who could today allow information to be delivered in this form and that it be discussed, and I think you are too late with your Urgen to put it on the vote right now on your agenda.
ParlaMint-BA_2010-03-10-0.u32938	Mr. Chairman, I just want to remind you. So, at the beginning of the session, the president of the SDP MPs' club raised the issue, she recalled. So it's not just about our proposal at this session. We delivered it neatly, here's the date.
ParlaMint-BA_2010-03-10-0.u32939	When this agenda point is opened, 36
ParlaMint-BA_2010-03-10-0.u32940	Seven days ago in your college. So we're looking for an indication. I'm surprised you didn't put it to the vote. Here, we haven't established the agenda yet, so...
ParlaMint-BA_2010-03-10-0.u32941	My colleagues and colleagues, at the Expansive College, I think we discussed this point. We in the College can't be the place where wishes and congratulations will be sent and that we ask for information from everyone else. The agenda item should be proposed here, then the House will vote whether it will be the agenda item or not. The debate resulted in you agreeing to formulate the agenda point in the way the honourable MP Šefik Džaferović did. If you didn't agree with that, you should have told me to put your proposal on the agenda as well. I've just read it, I've concluded the debate, I've asked if there's anyone else to report for the debate, I've concluded the debate, I've read the whole agenda, and you're reporting for putting your agenda on the table. I don't see why you're doing this. I don't see any reason.
ParlaMint-BA_2010-03-10-0.u32942	Mr. Chairman, you may as well conclude this debate.
ParlaMint-BA_2010-03-10-0.u32943	Well, not as it pleases, there's got to be some order, and I gave you a chance. You haven't taken advantage of the possibility. Don't get mad at me.
ParlaMint-BA_2010-03-10-0.u32944	Don't be mad, no one. So we're talking about what we delivered seven days ago, not even today at the session, referring to article 65. So we wanted to talk about it a long time ago, and that's why we set this up seven days ago. We expected to make a statement about this. And you can conclude this session if you get majority support. As you wish, but
ParlaMint-BA_2010-03-10-0.u32945	Business MP Šefik Džaferović. Here you go.
ParlaMint-BA_2010-03-10-0.u32946	I think we cleared this up when we talked about the agenda. I agreed. 37
ParlaMint-BA_2010-03-10-0.u32947	Obviously not.
ParlaMint-BA_2010-03-10-0.u32948	I think we did, I see it that way. Let's have a look at the stenogram. So I said in my discussion that I have written this proposal, which concerns Professor Ganić, that I don't mind having that information from the Council of Ministers to be both Mr. Jurišić and everyone else, and I don't think there's any need to complicate now. The point of the agenda is what it is, and I understand that it's how we adopted it. There must certainly be information from the Council of Ministers that we are discussing it. We can't argue without information from the Council of Ministers. Probably, I don't know if she's coming today or not: if she doesn't, then it'll be for the next session, but it's on the agenda today. And when information is sought from the Council of Ministers, then we can look for it for all of these, both for Ilija Jurišić and Professor Ganić and so on. There.
ParlaMint-BA_2010-03-10-0.u32949	Dear MP Bećirović, a businessman.
ParlaMint-BA_2010-03-10-0.u32950	I know very well what I'm talking about. And we all know very well that the headline of the agenda also defines the content of the debate within the agenda. I quote, if I have noted correctly, point 25, how you, Mr. Chairman, read: 'Information by the Council of Ministers on the deprivement of the freedom of Ejup Ganić in Great Britain on the request of Serbia for extradition'. So, at this point in the agenda, it's about Ejup Ganić. We of the SDP have no objection to this, but we asked seven days ago for a full debate on all the arrests, warrants against BiH citizens, with special reference to the case of Ilija Jurišić and Ejup Ganić. You'll admit, it's not the same thing after all.
ParlaMint-BA_2010-03-10-0.u32951	Your Honor, we have a debate on the agenda. I asked you if there was any further discussion. I'd dot by point and read the ones we voted on. You didn't use business intervention to say, "Dear Chairman, you didn't put our agenda on the vote." When I read the whole agenda, you're on business and you're asking me to do it. Is it your suggestion that I put in now that I've read the agenda? Your draft agenda item... the vote? You'll admit you're too late for intervention. If I was wrong not to put your agenda on the line, you should have reacted to it. But I think everything was regular. And there's no one against voting on it, you're just not at the time when we discussed it having a business intervention. And don't ask me, then, now that I've read the agenda, I'm putting some points on the agenda again. That wouldn't really make sense, and this 38th congregation, I think, we're just a little bit off in that position that I was talking about before. So I ask you to give this item of the agenda a way to give an initiative on parliamentary issues that will go towards the commission and try to find information. I don't see a way, we in the College have been considering, the Kolegijum can't be in charge of any parliamentary intervention or we gather information and we're looking for a agenda point. That's impossible. We would be buried with proposals from various MPs if we as a Kolegijum were looking for information, buying. That's what the session says, suggested, explained. If this is what Parliament is for, then it is the responsibility of the Kolegijum to obtain information. Don't do that. And it was all arranged at the extended college yesterday. Explained. Dear Ambassador Mirko Okolić, business. Here you go.
ParlaMint-BA_2010-03-10-0.u32952	That's right, business. Dear Chairman, I am sorry that Mr Denis Bećirović did not respond in time and that his act was voted on. However, I claim that the Rules of Procedure have not been broken and I ask you not to give any more words about the agenda, because we are done with it. And once again, I note the business intervention why I took it, and this is the proposal by Mr. Šefik Džaferović, who says, "I have suggested this point of the agenda that was adopted, and we will ask for further information, with additional elements." I ask that this be done in business and that information be sought only as it is in the agenda. Thank you.
ParlaMint-BA_2010-03-10-0.u32953	Thank you. I think we've solved this situation and we're moving on to the realization of the agenda. Point 1. Ad.1. The adoption of the minutes from the 72nd session of the House of Representatives You've got the record. Any objections? I'm closing the debate. Moving to point two: Ad.2. Parliamentary Issues 39
ParlaMint-BA_2010-03-10-0.u32956	Thank you. After seven months, I received an answer to a representative's question, which is simple and short, and it said, "Why did BHT decide to ban just one word in its programme?" Since the answer is also very short, I'll read it here. The BiH Ministry of Communications and Transport has received an answer from RTVBiH to the question I fully quote: 'BHT has not decided to ban the word of the county in its programme but has already been done by the Federation of BiH Constitutional Court. In late 1998, the court's decision declared illegal use of the county concept. The Constitution of the Federation of BiH states: The Federation of BiH consists of federal units, in brackets, (canton). The cantons will be named exclusively by cities of the cantonal authorities or by regional and territorial characteristics." Well, you see, when you compare my question and answer, then it's clear that it's not even answered my question at all. I'm not a lawyer of the word county but I asked why only that word was forbidden. Aren't there any more words that are illegal? So, you're allowed to use all English words in the program, you're allowed all Japanese words, but the word County is forbidden. If they had said: that word is forbidden in this and that context, the ugly words are forbidden, it is forbidden to tell one editor that the baseball bat should accompany MPs from the Parliamentary Assembly, it is prohibited, etc. But I asked a simple question -- why is only one word forbidden in the program? But they answer to me as if I want that word not to be banned. I want an answer to the same question I asked again, and I'm very unhappy with the answer. Thank you. 40
ParlaMint-BA_2010-03-10-0.u32957	I thank the esteemed representative Zorić. The next is distinguished representative Denis Bećirović.
ParlaMint-BA_2010-03-10-0.u32958	I will comment on two parliamentary questions and answers to those questions by the foreign minister. One of the questions was: "What ministers in the BiH Council of Ministers and MPs and delegates in the BiH Parliamentary Assembly own other than BiH passports and passports of neighbouring countries?" To this question, the Foreign Ministry and Minister Alkalaj replied that the foreign ministry is not in a legal position to answer this question. The second question was: 'I am asking to know exactly who owns the diplomatic passport of BiH, with special reference to the name and name of the person, the date of issue of the passport and the basis by which he owns the diplomatic passport?' I didn't get the answer to this second question, so I didn't get the answer to the question I asked. The minister quoted me as Article 5(2) and (3) of that Regulation, which gives these diplomatic passports, which I did not ask him at all. I'm familiar with that rulebook, and I was familiar with it before asking what it says and in Article 5. Therefore, I am renewing this issue and asking the foreign minister to answer a concrete parliamentary question or to answer that he does not want to, or I do not know for what third reason he does not want to answer this parliamentary question. So, I am publicly renewing this parliamentary question. Thank you.
ParlaMint-BA_2010-03-10-0.u32959	I thank the esteemed representative Bećirović. Next is the distinguished representative Slavko Matić.
ParlaMint-BA_2010-03-10-0.u32960	Thank you very much, Mr. President. Dear colleagues and fellow representatives, honored guests, I asked the question: 'What measures and activities have been taken or will be taken by the BiH Defence Ministry to help care for people who are being released from the Armed Forces this year?' I would like to thank the Ministry of Defence for its pro-mpt response and delivery of answers, but I would like to comment on the content of this response. 41 In my opinion, at least two things are controversial. First thing, to base my knowledge and conversation with people who will be or have already been fired from 1. 3rd of this year from the Armed Forces, the problem is that in the response of the Ministry of Defence (and which you, colleagues and colleagues of the MPs, could hear from the Minister of Defence at the joint session) in the most part argues that all those who relax are familiar with their rights and opportunities after firing, which they can expect are the possibilities of taking care of them. I've gotten the impression that they either don't know anything or they know very little. I think the problem with that information has obviously failed. I want to trust the minister that they did it, but apparently it didn't come to those extreme people that it applies to. The other bigger problem is that I question the effects of the measures that the Ministry of Defense is presenting to us here. First of all, they call for letters to ambassadors in our country, international organisations and all other potential international donors to donate funds available to help care for these people, on the one hand. On the other hand, they addressed, according to the Ministry of Defence in this response, domestic institutions, security companies, employment offices, municipality heads, civil protection, etc. For neither of us, we do not have what is most important – what is the feedback from potential international donors, what is the feedback from domestic institutions to have space to hire these people? That in this answer is missing and I am expressing my personal opinion, and it seems to me a reasonable doubt that these effects will not win what the Ministry of Defense and we all expect these people to be taken care of and on that side I am not satisfied with the content of the answer. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-BA_2010-03-10-0.u32961	I thank the honourable representative Matić. The next is Honourable representative Selim Bešlagić.
ParlaMint-BA_2010-03-10-0.u32962	Dearly-respected colleagues, respected colleagues and respected guests, I have referred the Presidency of the Parliamentary Assembly to the question: "In all the laws adopted in the BiH Parliament, which states that the lower-level laws should be brought into line until a certain deadline: is this obligation and who is responsible for the implementation of this obligation, as well as the sanctions for those who have not implemented that decision?" I received a reply from Mr. Milorad Živković, the chairman of the House of Representatives, and, apart from not satisfying me, this response does not satisfy the fundamental, constitutional value of the rule of law, or the rule of law. Namely, the Single Rules for making legal rules in BiH institutions to which Mr. Živković is called, that is "The Official Messenger of BiH", number 11/05, define only the issue of 42 forms of legal acts. So structure, order, language, a special kind of legal regulation, and certainly not their content. The asked question refers to something that can only refer to the content of the law as such. It would be good if I were given a legal qualification in response to which a member of the Single Rules was founded (in response I received in February of this year). And that was the question of seeing the harmonisation of the law, the Framework Law on Higher Education with Cantonal Law. I specifically speak the Tuzla Canton where I'm told that we have no right except to control, we have no right to execute, I would say, and the implementation of the Framework Law. The law itself accurately established, defined and legal, means that there is no legal liability of the competent authorities which have not acted in accordance with the state law. I believe that it is necessary to form and, in this sense, I will propose an initiative, not today, but next time, to analyse the non-implementation of state laws by competent entity and cantonal parliaments and this issue... to dedicate a special assembly debate to both Houses of Parliament. In other words, all the laws that are passed in these parliaments, in fact, do not have to be implemented at a lower level, or they do not have to be implemented, which absolutely leads to whether we are working productively or not. Thank you.
ParlaMint-BA_2010-03-10-0.u32963	I thank the esteemed representative Bešlagić. The next is Honourable representative Željko Kuzmanović.
ParlaMint-BA_2010-03-10-0.u32964	At the 71st session of the House held on 3 February, i.e. I asked the Board of Directors of BHRT and the Ministry of Communications and Transport to provide me with information on the donation of the Kingdom of Saudi Arabia to the digitalisation process of the Public TV Service in BiH and an explanation of the potential, indirect role of the company H-media from Zagreb to the realization and donation. In the meantime, I received a reply from the chairman of the Management Board. Meanwhile, a meeting of the Transport and Communications Commission was held where we discussed this issue in detail and all I can conclude from the data that we have is that it is obvious that the digitalisation process is understood by some as one large jar of honey in which everyone is trying to insert their fingers. That's it.
ParlaMint-BA_2010-03-10-0.u32965	Thank you. 43
ParlaMint-BA_2010-03-10-0.u32966	We move on to questions and initiatives. Mr. Lozančić.
ParlaMint-BA_2010-03-10-0.u32967	Thank you. Ladies and gentlemen of the Parliament, distinguished guests, I'm going to ask two parliamentary questions and I've got one agent's initiative that's about one of the parliamentary issues. I was going to discuss this matter through the agenda point which was even moved, but seeing that we have a negative position both in the Council of Ministers and in our respective committee, as regards the Proposal for a Law on Amendments and Supplements to the Law on Service in the Armed Forces, and because of the findings that are mentioned in both the second document and in the Opinion of the Council of Ministers and in the Opinion of the Competent Commission, which are about to put into effect this law, which is proposed in the procedure, to produce additional financial costs. Another argument is that if it were to happen, it would stop defence system reform and BiH's path to NATO. I have concluded from this that currently in the military, in the Armed Forces of BiH, there are some people who produce additional financial costs and who are, and this is the first time explicits have been written, disrupted or halted the reform of the defence system and BiH's path towards NATO. To be clear, it's about the lowest in the Armed Forces by rank and titles called soldiers and who in the last 18 years haven't had enough aunts, amijas, uncles and everything else so they can be promoted by just one step higher, and then they wouldn't be our problem today. But apart from being a problem to themselves, meaning that they will be left without bread, except that here they have none, we heard just a moment ago from the comment of the distinguished representative Matić, the programme of their care, so they will only be another category that is former and that this country after they have served her and served her to manage for themselves as they know and can. At the very least, it is incorrect not to say another term, it is incorrect to think and then write that they could stop BiH's progress towards NATO and reform the defence system. Mildly said, rudely. We know well what is the problem of BiH's faster progress towards NATO and with all other integrations. And let's not at least burden these people. Therefore, I ask the Council of Ministers to answer me: 'How many of these soldiers who produce additional financial costs and who are these, by their name, last name, years of age and length of internships in the Armed Forces and components from which the Armed Forces came, and what is the municipality of their residence? These are all the elements that are important, because I expect to find out from the answer why they are the problem of this country and why are the country's progress to NATO?' Second question. I'm going to ask this second question to the High Judicial and Prosecution Council. 44 If today in BiH any of you members of the Council of Ministers, any government, entity, canton, ministers, MPs, etc., would ask what conditions are for investment investments in BiH, everyone would tell you that they are very favourable and very liberal. Everyone would think of the legal provisions under which that is indeed the case. If you were to ask further how long it would take to register a business entity, everyone would have called for a framework law on the registration of business entities in BiH and the same such entity laws. The law many and I must say in one of them, which is the law of the Federation of BiH in Article 2 reads: The procedure for enrolment in the court register of business entities in the Federation of BiH is urgent, uniform and applicable to all business entities established in BiH, both from both domestic and foreign, legal and physical persons. Further, principles are defined to ensure that this is exactly the way it is. It shall also be prescribed what the competent registration court is authorised to ask for in the course of the registration procedure. And everything would be fine if there was anything the law requires. If you leave, and I was in the company of Krinaj the other day in 1884 and people tell you that for 18 months, I repeat 18 months, in competent registration courts, first in Zenica, and now for some reason I don't know which in Tuzla, there is still an unsolved application for their registration in the Register of Business Entities, you will find it hard to believe. I believed them, but I would like to confirm my belief, since the courts are independent of action and since I would not want this issue to be seen as a pressure on the work of the court; I am just asking the High Court and Prosecutor's Council: 'Is it even true that the registration procedure in the Register of Business Entities Guilts 1884 which was allegedly being conducted in the competent court in Zenica and now in Tuzla and at the request of Kritaja 1884 has been going on for 18 months? If this is true, what and who can do to apply, in this case, the Law on the Registration of Business Entities in the Federation of BiH, and in particular its Article 2 which speaks of the urgency of the procedure?' And the third question: "What is the High Judicial and Prosecutorial Council intending to do to make a positive or negative decision at the request of the Krivaja in 1884? They have the right to a solution, whatever it may be." And for this, but also for the sake of this debate that we have been having today in the Bosnian Herzegovina public and the assessment that and for certain cases, here they are, responsible are the unsuspecting courts in BiH, for public reactions to a number of judgments which have been published in some courts in BiH these days and for the overall politicisation of the judiciary and its role in the BiH system of authorities, I am giving an initiative to the Council of Ministers, i.e. the Ministry of Justice and the High Court and Prosecutor's Council of Justice that a rapid joint analysis of the situation in the BiH judiciary, with a special reference to criminal policy and problems in the registration of business entities in front of BiH courts. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-BA_2010-03-10-0.u32968	Denis Bećirović. 45
ParlaMint-BA_2010-03-10-0.u32969	I have three questions and one initiative. Since the questions are on two pages, I'll just read them first and they're similar to this other one, so I won't burden you with too much time. Here's the first question: 'I am asking to know exactly what the Justice Ministry in the BiH Council has done to protect the human rights of BiH citizen Ilija Jurišić from the day of his arrest to this day, and in particular to indicate to me who and when he visited Ilija Jurišić in prison, the dates and effects of meetings of the competent ministry with the competent judicial, executive and legislative authorities of the Republic of Serbia and how many times did the Council of Ministers of BiH discuss, the date and number of meetings, and what are the concrete effects and conclusions of these discussions?' Since the other two questions to other addresses are similar, I will, of course, deliver these questions in writing. As for the initiative, given that this SDP Club initiative is already spoken in some way and in the context of the agenda, I will not explain it, but rather fully on the arrest and calling of all BiH citizens with special reference to the case of Ilija Jurišić and Ejup Ganić and, in particular, with a proposal for measures to protect BiH citizens, we, as a Member's Club, are now officially referring to and asking that the competent ministries of delivery of information be the point of the agenda at one of the next session of the House of Representatives. Thank you.
ParlaMint-BA_2010-03-10-0.u32970	I thank the esteemed representative Bećirović. The next is Honourable representative Sadik Bahtić.
ParlaMint-BA_2010-03-10-0.u32971	Thank you. I have two short questions. The first question is for the BiH Council of Ministers: "Do you and when do you intend to propose a diaspora law to Parliament?" Reason: Given the newer history of BiH, our diaspora is one important part of our society and therefore there is a need for a diaspora law to regulate this area. According to available information, there is a proposal for a decision to form a Commission to draft a draft diaspora law, but it has never been considered at the BiH Council of Ministers. The ministry's resolution sent four orders to the Council of Ministers, so far nothing has been done. 46 And my second question is the College of this house: How long will you tolerate and do nothing concerning the presence of certain messengers only briefly at the beginning of the session, I mean, specifically, the Zlatko Lagumdžija? The man comes in 10 minutes or half an hour and today he's gone at 11:45, at 12.10 he went down, the black coat of course is dressed, the purse, the circus has brought its theater out here and it's always taking us an hour or two and nobody's doing anything. Parliament's college should take a stand and the public should also know that this man just comes here and dazzles, theatres some circus, goes and makes one two statements. I asked the College: how long will you tolerate the presence of individual MPs only briefly at the beginning of the session, and what will you do about it? Thank you.
ParlaMint-BA_2010-03-10-0.u32972	I thank the esteemed representative of Bahtić. Next is Honorable Representative Rifat Dolić.
ParlaMint-BA_2010-03-10-0.u32973	Gentlemen chairman, colleagues and colleagues, distinguished guests, I have one parliamentary initiative and two questions. The parliamentary initiative is addressed to the Council of Ministers, which refers to the submission of information to the BiH Parliamentary Assembly on the state of BiH's approved credit for various purposes, which are not on time or at all put into use in the period from 1.1.2000. - 31.12.2009 and the penalty payments paid for it. I'm delivering an explanation for this initiative in writing. It's a parliamentary question. It was first addressed to the BiH Council of Ministers: 'What does the Council of Ministers do or intends to take against the moves taken by the Government of the Republic of Slovenia continue to take towards the citizens of BiH who in the Republic of Slovenia have a temporary or permanent stay and work permits and currently have or have been employed recently? The result of the move by the Government of the Republic of Slovenia, which has been wrapped in anti-crisis measures, is a disenfranchisement and an unprecedented hack of about 50,000 BiH citizens who have had or have a job in the Republic of Slovenia in this way. After the robbery of the owners of the old foreign exchange savings, the Republic of Slovenia once again demonstrated a hypocritical policy towards BiH and its citizens with discriminatory moves towards BiH. In this context, Slovenia's long-standing ignoring relationship with the problem of the bilateral Social and Health Insurance Agreement, which still has problems in its implementation today, cannot be forgotten. It is obvious that BiH diplomacy either does not see well or has more important jobs than protecting the interests of BiH and its citizens. I think that the leadership of the BiH state would be more useful to protect its citizens from robbery and dissuasion than to raise up Slovenia that humiliates and discriminates the citizens of BiH." The second question is also the question of the BiH Council of Ministers Police Ministers: 'How many members of the Serb people and members of the national minorities are currently employed in the Federation of BiH police, by number and percentage? 47 How many in the last two years have the Federation police left, and what are the reasons for leaving? How many Bošnjak musliman, Hrvat and members of national minorities are currently employed by the RS police, by number and percentage? How many have left the RS police in the last two years, and what are the reasons for leaving?" I'm asking the question because lately it's been speculating with data that in this strategic area, police abandonment has been progressive by members of the minority population and national minorities, which further disrupts the ethnic structure of both entities' police forces. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-BA_2010-03-10-0.u32974	I thank the honourable representative, Dolić. Next is Honorable Representative Mirko Okolić.
ParlaMint-BA_2010-03-10-0.u32975	Thank you, Mr. Chairman. I have two questions for the BiH Ministry of Security. The first is: 'Why is there not a single person responsible as the holder of the Serbian people's programming activities in the 2010 work programme of the Ministry of Security? Does this mean that there is no similar or professional person in the Ministry of Security in the order of the Serb people who are in the positions of state officials?" Second question: "Will the national balance be carried out, first of all, by state officials, and then by the heads of the department and other civil servants of the Ministry of Security?" Note. Over the past three years, this issue has been asked several times, but so far the Ministry of Security and its leadership has done nothing, or at least I have no such information, and they should have come to that. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-BA_2010-03-10-0.u32976	I thank the esteemed representative of Okolić. The next is Honorable Representative Adem Huskić. 48
ParlaMint-BA_2010-03-10-0.u32977	Thank you, Mr. Chairman. Dear colleagues, guests, I have two short questions. ... In fact, two for the Government of the Middle Bosnian Canton, one for our Council of Ministers. First for the Government of the Middle Bosnian Canton: 'When do you intend to fulfil your obligations towards the Sarajevo Student Centre concerning students from the SBK, since failure to fulfil your obligations calls into question the continuation of their study?' The second question: 'Do you intend to bring legal solutions that will provide students from the Central Bosnian Canton with equal status with students from other cantons and thus end their further discrimination?' I'm not going to comment, I think whoever's interested in what's going on. A question for the BiH Council of Ministers: "Do you plan to propose a law on environmental protection for 2010?" This issue is very current in BiH, and in the past term, just to remind you, a special commission has been formed with the task of investigating ecosystem pollution in BiH. There were: Mr. Živković was the chairman, late colleague Lozančić, Ivo Lozančić and I. Also, the chairman of the Council of Ministers indicated this matter as one of the topics of special importance in his opening speech. For the sake of this above, I believe that the proposal for this law is to be found as soon as possible in the parliamentary procedure. Thank you.
ParlaMint-BA_2010-03-10-0.u32978	I thank the esteemed representative Huskić. The next is distinguished representative Husein Nanić.
ParlaMint-BA_2010-03-10-0.u32979	I thank you, Chairman. Here, I'd like to ask one question to two addresses today, since I appreciate both ministries playing a part in this. So, the issue concerns the Minister of Finance and Treasury of BiH and the BiH Ministry of Foreign Affairs, and this is the following: "Is the Council of Ministers' procedure of the Agreement on the avoidance of double taxation between BiH and Spain and when will it be delivered to parliamentary procedure?" 49 I have recently had the opportunity to question, in a conversation with the Spanish ambassador, when asking for information on the assessment of economic co-operation between BiH and Spain, that for three years there has been a request in the Council of Ministers' drawers, or a double taxation agreement between Spain and BiH, and that there is no response from the Council of Ministers and therefore I am asking for an answer to this question. Thank you.
ParlaMint-BA_2010-03-10-0.u32980	I thank the esteemed representative, Nanić. The next is Honourable representative Selim Bešlagić.
ParlaMint-BA_2010-03-10-0.u32981	Dear Chairman, dear colleagues and colleagues, I have only one parliamentary question. The members of the Management Board of the BiH Direct Taxation Board, which has six, expired in June, or July 2009. The board of directors numbers six members of which are three members acting as finance ministers, and three members are experts from the area. Since the Council of Ministers of BiH and the Government of the Republic of Slovenia have not executed the appointment of members of the Management Board for indirect taxation, meaning after the end of the term of office, the question of the legality of the work of the Management Board of indirect taxation, as well as the legality of the rules laid down by the Law on the indirect taxation system, is raised, in particular in the light of the legal provisions which are within the competence of the Administrative Board of the Direct Taxation Board, Article 14, is adopted by consensus. The situation is further in line because the BiH Council of Ministers also did not appoint a director of the Directorate for Direct Taxation, which is why we are asking for a written explanation. Since 80% of the tax revenues in BiH are revenue from indirect taxation collected by the BiH Direct Taxation Administration, the Management Board of the Directorate for indirect taxation, it is undoubtedly to conclude that the Council of Ministers is deliberately disabling this institution and thereby jeopardising macroeconomic stability and financial sustainability. The General Secretariat of the Council of Ministers of BiH is in "The Official Messenger", number 14/09, out of 17. 2. In 2009, he announced a public ad for the selection of members of the Governing Board for Direct Taxation of BiH, appointed by the Council of BiH's Ministers for Direct Taxation. The Committee for the Selection of BiH Management Board members has implemented the law on the envisaged procedure and the proposal for a ranking of the best candidates for selection and appointment to the BiH Council of Ministers 3. 4. In 2009, it means 11 months ago. Question relating to the Council of Ministers, i.e. the Chairman of the Council of Ministers: "Why did the Council of Ministers not execute the selection and appointment of members of the Management Board of the Direct Taxation Board from the order of experts on indirect taxation and when will they do so?" Thank you. 50
ParlaMint-BA_2010-03-10-0.u32982	I thank the esteemed representative Bešlagić. The next is distinguished representative Branko Dokić.
ParlaMint-BA_2010-03-10-0.u32983	Thank you, Mr. Chairman. Before my very specific and clear question, I'm just going to give a brief introduction. Last November 21st (so to remind you, if some have forgotten and seem to be forgetting) that the Dayton Peace Agreement was signed on that day and that, if anything, it brought peace to this country. One of our ambassadors in the world has organized a reception for his fellow ambassadors from other countries. The reception was answered by the ambassadors of the United States, Russia, Great Britain, as I was informed, Germany and many other ambassadors. The reception was, I'd say, very noticeable. They were glad someone remembered that day and invited them to remind themselves of that day. It is common for the Ministry of Foreign Affairs to bear the cost of such admission. The answer to the ambassador in the form of punishment was that he would have to bear the costs out of his pocket. What is our relationship to that day, it speaks between today's new holiday law, where again, to my great surprise, there is no such day as a holiday. I'd like to remind you of a great socialist named Vilije Brant who said "mir is not everything, but without peace everything is nothing". I remind you once again, that day is if nothing else brought peace to BiH. My question isn't about that. This was just an introduction. My question is BiH Foreign Minister: "How many embassies has BiH been marked this year on 1 March and how much has the Ministry spent budget money on that day?" ... Why was I making that introduction connecting to 21. Whether we wanted to admit it or not, March 1st brought us into war and March 1st is marked only in one entity; November 21st brought peace to this country. Unfortunately, peacemaking is also marked in only one entity, but the other is compared to this 1 March. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-BA_2010-03-10-0.u32984	I thank the esteemed representative Dokić. The next one is Ljiljana Milašin's esteemed representative.
ParlaMint-BA_2010-03-10-0.u32985	Thank you, Mr. Chairman. 51 I have a parliamentary question for the Council of Ministers of BiH: 'What stage is the decision to import second-hand vehicles to BiH, with the intention of placing them on the market or registering in BiH, i.e. until when will BiH represent a dump of broken vehicles that violate the environmental system and threaten the safety of traffic on our roads?" Thank you.
ParlaMint-BA_2010-03-10-0.u32986	I would like to thank the esteemed representative of the Milašin. The next is Honourable representative Željko Kuzmanović.
ParlaMint-BA_2010-03-10-0.u32987	Thank you, Deputy Chairman. I have one question for the BiH Ministry of Communications and Transport and it says: "What has the BiH Ministry of Communications and Transport done about stealing the official Pasat brand vehicle that happened at the end of last year in front of a catering facility in Sarajevo?" I'm also asking the question: "Who was responsible for that vehicle at the time of the vehicle's disappearance and based on what act?" Thank you.
ParlaMint-BA_2010-03-10-0.u32988	I thank the honourable representative Kuzmanović. The next is the distinguished representative Azra Alajbegović.
ParlaMint-BA_2010-03-10-0.u32989	Dear Chairman, colleagues and colleagues, members of the Council of Ministers, guests... 'I ask the Ministry of Foreign Affairs to provide me with a full draft on the work of our UN Mission in New York for 2009, with a work plan for the same year and a report on the work and analysis of what has been done, what has not been done, the reasons for the same and the proposal for work for 2010, with a special focus on the work of ambassadors at the UN of BiH? And the second question I ask is to forward to the health ministries of the Federation of BiH, RS and Brcko District and to all cantonal ministries, which reads: "Are the contraceptives on the essential lists? If they are what contraceptives, and if they are not when will they be?" 52
ParlaMint-BA_2010-03-10-0.u32990	I thank the esteemed representative Alajbegović. Next is the distinguished representative Slavko Matić.
ParlaMint-BA_2010-03-10-0.u32991	Thank you. 'What measures and activities will the Ministry of Security take in cooperation with other relevant institutions to enable and protect the activities of political parties throughout the BiH area and what are they doing to discover those who stoned the premises of the BiH County Committee in Bihac?' A second question for the BiH Ministry of Security and Prosecutor's Office: 'How long has the investigation of the murder of General of the Croatian Council of Defence of the Vlada of Šantić in Bihaq arrived and has anyone been charged with this murder after 15 years?' For one question and another, I found the incentive in an unkind event two days ago in a stone attack at the premises of the HDZ County Committee. The attack took place just on the 15th anniversary of the murder of General Šantić and, as I find out in this matter, after 15 years of my knowledge, no one has yet been charged, although at many levels from the county through the federal parliament to this state, in those 15 years by representatives of the envoys of the Croatian people at least 100 times the same question was asked, the answer has not yet arrived, at least in the sense that this murder was resolved. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-BA_2010-03-10-0.u32992	I thank the honourable representative Matić. And, in front of me... there's been a run-down list of people who've been reported asking counsel questions. No more reports. I'm closing this agenda. Although we announced that we would take a break at 1400 hours, given that we are now entering the agenda point which we cannot complete until this planned break, we will, because of the times we have lost, and so on, cut the planned break from this moment to 14,15 breaks, so that all MPs can complete the material for this item of the agenda and so that we can be prepared for discussion. [[PAUZA]]
ParlaMint-BA_2010-03-10-0.u32993	Comrades and fellow MPs, ladies and gentlemen, please take your seats. 53 We move to point three: Ad. 3. Action plan for the implementation of the European Court of Human Rights ruling in the case of Sejdić and Finc v BiH (the Council of Ministers material) and the Proposal for a plan for action to comply with the BiH and Election Law in order to implement the European Court of Human Rights in Strasbourg in the case of Sejdic and Finci (the Central Election Commission material) In accordance with our conclusion with the 71st session of the House of 22. 2. In 2010, from the Central Election Commission, we received a proposal for a plan of action to bring the Constitution forward. Also, from the Council of Ministers, we're four. 3. obtain the Action Plan for the implementation of the European Court of Justice ruling. On the proposal of Parliament Mirjana Malić, today we have placed this item in the agenda of this session and I am opening the debate. Is there a need for a Council of Ministers to explain? There isn't. Do you have needs? Okay. Minister Čolak. Here you go.
ParlaMint-BA_2010-03-10-0.u32995	Thank you, Mr. President. As a Council of Ministers, we, as a Council of Ministers, tried, as we were successful, here you can evaluate, make a plan, an action plan for the implementation of the European Court of Human Rights ruling in the case of Sejdić and Finc v BiH. Of course, it implies not only a change in the BiH Constitution but also a change in the plan, so immediately after the amendment of the Constitution, and the BiH Election Law, because it is not possible to amend the Election Law at this time and adapt it to those provisions of the Constitution that we do not have yet. We have also faced this problem in the work of this inter-resor working group, which has already completed the amendments and additions of the Election Law at this stage, and is now working on amendments and additions to the Law on the financing of political parties. As far as this plan is, let me say, realistically, as far as it's real, I think it's up to all of us. Our goal was and we chose to propose the deadlines in which we thought and in which we think it is possible to finish this job. Of course, it implies that there is a goodwill of all, and we in the Council of Ministers and both homes of the Parliamentary Assembly. This means that the amendments and additions of the BiH Constitution are carried out in accordance with the Action Plan by 1.4, so that they are delivered to the BiH Parliament in order for Parliament to be left for a little more than a month to accept these amendments. And the end of this second job: it's scheduled until 15. 4, which means that it would be possible to access amendments and amendments to the Election Law immediately, following the adoption of the Parliamentary Assembly of amendments to the Constitution. It is not possible before it is accepted... amendments and additions to the Constitution are accepted in the BiH Parliamentary Assembly. 54 We went as far as we could, therefore, and when we formed this task force, so we went to each club from the House of Representatives to give one representative, the House of Peoples also from each club and the Council of Ministers by one, a total of 13 members. We managed to get from the clubs, so we proposed candidates, and at the Council of Ministers' session, at the last session, we managed to bring in the Action Plan. I, here's led by the idea and by the Council of Ministers, have been scheduled today by a constituting session at 1400 hours, but here, given that fellow parliamentarians have informed me that there will be a debate on the Action Plan, we have done nothing but meet and agree, depending on your decision today, that we will try to continue the work. Here, it's in the shortest time to start. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-BA_2010-03-10-0.u32996	Thank you. Dear Messenger Mirjana Malić. Here you go.
ParlaMint-BA_2010-03-10-0.u32997	The Honorable Chairman, colleagues and colleagues, respected members of the Council of Ministers, so my intention still yesterday at the Extended College and today was that the review of the Action Plan on the implementation of the European Court of Human Rights ruling, as was the conclusion adopted at the 71st session on February 10th, should be discussed on a timely basis during today, so that it would make sense to give legitimacy to the representatives of our country's Parliament, namely this home, that they can work in some working group. Please, it has not happened so far that any working group, commission, inter-resor group or anything else is forming differently than this Parliament. We, all of us, will be reminded, have received a 04th petition from the Council of Ministers, so to speak, that according to the Action Plan to be implemented, within three days at the latest we also delegate someone in front of the SDP Club, and that is not disputed. It's something else. We are March 9th, i.e. yesterday, only in the afternoon, it says here in the minutes of 14.20 that it arrived at the protocol, received from the Council of Ministers a call for the first constitutional session, agenda and session, the material that follows along with it, next to the Action Plan that was made on half the page, and which we had already yesterday, a notice of the Council of Ministers' decision to form a group in which people are namedly numbered and which, among other things, simulates what this working group should do, and the minister himself has now said in this brief address it is nice to say that it is much more of political will and mood, that I simply do not think that the actual readiness of the position in this country and the executive authority exists that, except in the form of coach and simulation, does not try to apply and change what is discriminatory in our Constitution. And I'm going to tell you right now why, despite my attempt to always be polite, I'm still in a position to point out that I'm not really blind and I can say this. Even during the discussion and realization of the conclusions, which he submitted in December of the SDP, there was a lack of mood to respond in a transparent manner, so it went regularly and its commission phase, and it was all right to hear a comment today, Mr. Belkić, do not be angry that I am talking to 55 of you, but we all heard this: that this cannot happen before the agenda at which the constitutional amendments offered by your party can be discussed. If we have constitutional amendments to the reserve... of a party, and the Council of Ministers if it forms, before Parliament even announced the proposed action plan, then I'm not sure there's any real will. That's why I wouldn't want to... just tell you why I have a doubt. And finally, I would like to say, 'As it has been applied in accordance with the abovementioned facts', I am now quoting the opening part of the Action Plan, 'the detailed Action Plan with the aim of carrying out the verdict, which determines the measures, activities, operators of the activities and deadlines'. The measures are contained only in measure 1, and then they have activity. And then it turned out that all the activities, which should depend on the goodwill and opportunities and arrangements of the ruling position, were reduced to representatives of BiH's clubs. So that I wouldn't spread the story and not spread the atmosphere, my intention wasn't to say this at 5:00 to 3:00, but to say it at 12:00 at the latest. We welcome at least the late need of the Council of Ministers and positions to try to resolve the issue of discrimination, but do as you have done for this year without us. And if the proposed amendments come to the debate in this House, we will use our parliamentary right to read about them. Don't just, please, in my attempt this morning to have Parliament respect for the end and for the first and second points of view, which it adopted, ask for an alibi for why today, in full composition, this working group has not been maintained.
ParlaMint-BA_2010-03-10-0.u32998	The second vice-president, Mr. Beriz Belkić. Here you go.
ParlaMint-BA_2010-03-10-0.u32999	Here, so we're discussing the Action Plan. Yesterday we had another agreement, but here's the deal, Parliament decided to debate most of the votes. Now we're having a discussion. So, as far as the Party for BiH is concerned, our position, when it comes to the implementation of the European Court of Human Rights ruling, is absolutely sincere and clear. So we're for this decision to be implemented in full capacity. We thought and talked about it, assessing what would happen, having experience when real groups, action plans, etc., would take a lot of time. That's what the discussions were about, they've been listed weeks since we made decisions and until when action plans were made, so we thought it might be good to offer a solution. And we offered it. That solution, of course, nobody's talking about the metrics, it's just that it's just being discussed that this party and they're... they're going to have an intention, etc., but it's not on the agenda right now. It's going to be on the agenda of today's session there, I don't know what the agenda is. When it comes to the Action Plan, it is acceptable for us and simply it is also a obligation and that you did not have an initiative and an idea etc. He's an obligation stemming from the instructions of this agent of ours upstairs in Strasbourg. So these rules of implementation and the realization of these judgments provide that the states which are obliged to carry out the verdict deliver certain action plans, but what concerns me: I see that the deadline for the delivery of this action plan is only 22. Six. Of naravan, it's not forbidden to do that in three days, but the deadline is 22. 6. which could be a problem and some alibi for someone who won't honestly get into it. As far as we're concerned, akcion 56 is acceptable to us, we just have an observation and we tried and we don't want to make a problem out of it here. We tried to intervene there, we believe it was a misunderstanding, so in the composition of the Council of Ministers there is no Minister of Human Rights, therefore, and the scale of things is human rights. So, the Council of Ministers has opted out for the Minister of Civil Affairs, which is okay, the Minister of Justice, which is okay, and it's classified as a minister, I don't speak personally, the Minister of Defence, which I don't exactly connect with this. So, that's our point, and I believe the Council of Ministers will try to fix it. So, Mrs. Malić, as far as preparedness and will, we want to work with you and without you, therefore, and your right to give up now or not to give up, I mean, it's really your right. [[I'm sorry I'm talking, if I wanted a replica, I'd answer the line]] So here's what the BiH Party is for us. The Action Plan is acceptable. We have a suggestion, if possible, on the Council of Ministers to carry out this rotation. We are prepared, regardless of what we have in the amendment procedure, which we think the solution is, we are ready to work in this task force on implementation, in the way this action plan foresees, but of course, we will insist that this House be declared definitely on our amendments as well.
ParlaMint-BA_2010-03-10-0.u33000	Thank you. Dear Ambassador Branko Dokić, discussion. Here you go.
ParlaMint-BA_2010-03-10-0.u33001	Thank you, Mr. Chairman. I understand the need to demand that this home discuss the Action Plan that was required to create the Council of Ministers, and at our request and not only, as counterpart Belkić said, not only on our request, so it was their obligation and regardless of the initiative that came from the SDP, which we all supported in our heart. And I'm one of those people who I've convinced among others that it's really necessary for us all to support the initiative, not looking at who it comes from in terms of position or opposition. So they too have the right, not getting into it, I would not like to challenge any controversy, so it was quite justified that we discuss the Action Plan in terms of seeing whether the expectations of this home were carried out through that plan or not. Disputing the right of the Council of Ministers to appoint a working group, especially in the way it was determined, is completely and absolutely not standing. The Council of Ministers could have made a decision that there were no parliamentarians at all. Take a look at the sequence of steps when it comes to laws and other various initiatives coming from the Council of Ministers. The Council of Ministers has probably managed this time by the fact that it is necessary from the very beginning to involve parliamentarians in order to shorten the period, come on, understanding the needs and essence of what will be proposed. So that was their right, and if it's really respected at all clubs to look for suggestions, then I don't see any reason to object to what it's done as it's done. 57 I mean, on the other hand, come on, I owe one explanation, I didn't want straight through the replica, I waited for this discussion to be opened. Where am I on this list, too, I believe it was managed by a very good intention. The first option was for the people's House to be the president of my party on behalf of the Srbin, but since there are no presidents, then it gave up. And it even seems logical to me that in this group we don't have representatives of one game at a time of two, that it was the way it was. In addition, remember that the PDP has participated in all the discussions and discussions so far on constitutional changes. As far as I'm concerned, given the circumstances that exist here, and given the circumstances that exist in Banja Luka, I wish I wasn't on that list. I'd like to point out that we are facing a very responsible task. Are we capable, are we ready to do what we have to do? An excellent initiative at the very beginning when we get that verdict from the same ones is now at stake. I can understand all sorts of vanitys, but when it comes to the interests of the state and the responsibility of the state to the world, then I think these vanitys should be in a different plan. We understand criticism and advocating potential failures, but in this way I think this is a run from responsibility and running away from what should lead to a final result, which is the period when we have to make these changes before the next election to really make them. I think that in this whole story and those who are in the next election will vote for those who will be on various lists to recognize one such fact, so when personal party interests are placed above national interests. Thank you.
ParlaMint-BA_2010-03-10-0.u33002	Dear Ambassador Remzija Kadrić, discussion. Here you go.
ParlaMint-BA_2010-03-10-0.u33003	I thank you, Chairman. So, this point 3 is entitled: Action Plan for the implementation of the European Court of Human Rights ruling in the case of Sejdić and Finc v BiH – in brackets – (the Council of Ministers' material) and the Proposal for a plan for the alignment of the BiH Constitution and the Election Law of BiH to implement the European Court of Human Rights in Strasbourg in the case of Sejdić and Finc (the Central Election Commission material). That's point 3. However, there is also a point 21 with the title: Amendment II, III. and IV. at the Constitution of BiH, Proposer: Members of the Party for BiH, Amendment No: 01-01-10/10 of 15. 2., with the Constitutional Commission's opinion. So I have here a piece of material from the Central Election Commission that carries the date 19. 2. In 2010, the BiH Party submitted its amendments 27. 1. 2010, number: 01-2-1 10/10. So it was a mistake to determine the agenda. The Action Plan could only be declared... after we have spoken and resolved the issue of these amendments submitted by the SBiH Club. 58 For these reasons, it would really be quite logical and correct to this proposal that we first declare these amendments, and only then determine the Action Plan that I have read in this material.
ParlaMint-BA_2010-03-10-0.u33004	Sadly, we should have thought about that when we established the agenda. Dear Ambassador Zlatko Lagumdžija, please.
ParlaMint-BA_2010-03-10-0.u33005	I thank you, Mr. Chairman. I thank the esteemed colleagues and colleagues who had the understanding to talk about this now, not perhaps on time, but in any case before it's too late. I am also informed that this group that met at two o'clock has not yet been established, which I am treating as a sign of good faith by the ruling majority to still find some solution that will be in our country's interest. First, on behalf of the Council of Ministers of Justice, the Honorable Mr. Čolak, who has rightly drawn attention to us that this is possible if there is a goodwill of all here, and no one suspects it, that it would be possible in that case. However, in this country it is long ago clear that there is no good will for everyone here to go forward and be a real state. If there is no good will of all, which is not often the case even in far more serious countries, it is enough that there is a goodwill of the parliamentary majority – well, it must already exist. To make constitutional amendments, there must be a qualified goodwill, I'm afraid we don't see it here either. But perhaps words of goodwill are better replaced by words of political will. Well, is there at least that if there's no good will? Is there at least the political will of the parliamentary majority? If there is a political will of the parliamentary majority, then there is no need to worry about a constitutionally qualified majority, because the parliamentary majority has constitutional capacity and can do what they want with this country constitutionally. When it comes to the Action Plan, I want to be very clear, which is the turn of the move. This action plan we think is completely unacceptable, that it only leads us to new uncertainty, which is more uncertain than what it looks like now will lead us into an even more difficult situation in the country. Namely, in the Action Plan it is said on page and by text, it is unclear why this page and by text took 10 weeks, because this could have been done by anyone in 10 hours this Action Plan, which is said to be under: '1. A task force should be formed, 2. That you need to make a draft constitution, 3. That we should make a proposal for a constitution and a 4. That he should be adopted." For something like that, I'm sorry, it doesn't take 10 weeks, not even a brain trust like the Council of Ministers. Now that that's the case, what's left for us now? Now 59 have been left to us for two weeks under the Action Plan to draft amendments by the task force. And watch out,... and then it was given two days to the Council of Ministers to make on our proposal a working group draft amendment, and then they were given two weeks to make an amendment, again by the working group. And then the parliamentary majority, or qualified majority, excuse me, does not have to be the parliamentary majority, the qualified majority should adopt the constitution. Whoever proposes this plan must assume responsibility that this plan will be realised. Because watch out, if we take responsibility and send a message that this can be realized by the end of April, then in late April if we don't adopt this, then we're going into a more difficult situation than we are now. Since I am told here that a spectacle of the adoption of these amendments is at hand by the end of April, we do not believe it is possible in this kind of political will. But in order not to be blamed for preventing one spectacular success, against the spectacle, our greatest contribution to this spectacle is to let you make your own spectacle. And here you are, welcome. What my suggestion is to you, the parliamentary majority, do not allow yourself, I call on this parliament not to allow itself to be a Council of Ministers working group, the Council of Ministers should be a working group for Parliament. Here in the Action Plan it is so set up that, watch out, the working group made up of parliamentary parties from both homes and club presidents of both homes is practically a preparatory filter for the Council of Ministers that will double-steal it through their filters. Well, allow me, that's not normal. I fully agree with Mr Belkić, who says the minister of human rights is missing in the group. I would expand, Mr. Belkić: I think there is much more to the Minister of Foreign Affairs, because if you were to choose functionally, the one who is certainly... _________(?) [[no microphone turned on]] I didn't hear, so I mean, I'm glad you finally get that, too, but I mean, about that, yeah. It's not until October, believe me, I'm not interested in fulfilling your wishes, I'm not a wish for you. So let's get back to the serious thing. I really think, no matter what you have a clearly worse attitude than I do about these ministers of yours, I'm saying functionally I think the Action Plan, the suggestion is to put it straight so that the Council of Ministers forms a working group of their own, to be in it necessarily minister of justice, necessarily foreign minister, to make an assessment of what this means. Because the most responsible people from the international community in Sarajevo came to me, I have recently talked to them outside Sarajevo, who say there is a danger of a suspension of our membership in the Council of Europe, or a suspension of the Stabilisation and Association Agreement. Is that what people just told me? I doubt it. So that danger exists.
ParlaMint-BA_2010-03-10-0.u33007	No microphone 60
ParlaMint-BA_2010-03-10-0.u33008	Maybe it's me, that's who might have figured out that I'm gonna figure it out, Martine. Now, if there's this danger and we adopt this action plan and we don't make it in time for the amendment, then we might get this to come and really become our reality. Given this fact and the fact that Mrs Monika Mijić, our representative from the Council of Ministers before the European Court of Human Rights, clearly wrote, the truth as an emergency, three weeks ago, and she should be grateful that the deadline for the delivery of the Action Plan is 22. 6th of this year, 22. Six. Also, people here know better than I do that the average time of application of such decisions of the Court of Human Rights is five to seven years in much more orderly countries. If we tell ourselves that we are able to adopt this in two months, and then we don't, we will bring the country into a more difficult environment than if we say in a nice and calm manner that we will behave like any other country, that the Council of Ministers will make an action plan, that they will do it in six months, that they will then offer it by an algorithm that has here, which you know better than I do, so after that, there is an indication of the appropriate commission of the Court of Human Rights. Then our Council of Ministers refined it, then gave it to the Council of Europe Committee of Ministers, so they didn't accidentally adopt this for five years. I'm afraid, therefore truly convinced that I'm wrong, I pray to Bog that you do spectacularly with this and that you adopt amendments to the Constitution in the next two weeks, I'm sorry, two months, but I'm afraid we're not going to get to anything this way. In the end, if this is the Action Plan, if you don't accept our suggestions, I want to inform you that we will not support this action plan, that we will not participate in the work of this group. And that moment, if by any miracle that group manages to reach at least what is necessary, which is to say the House of Nations is elected in a way with its capacities as defined in the April package, and we all agreed that it is good then, even those who have shot it down, and if it comes to the President's problem being solved by choosing one president in Parliament in the House of Representatives, we are ready to engage here. But if it should turn into something, and then I suggest that in this Action Plan, it would be complete, so that the Council of Ministers form a working group, that we decide that, at the proposal of the Council of Ministers and their Constitutional Commission, to do its part of the job, and that when we see that it goes that way, we form a parliamentary committee here, not with the participation of MPs' clubs, but with representatives of each political party, all and one, so that Dokić does not have to smuggle with the PDP, nor should SDS and Novaković pretend to be in one party. It's enough that, as they say, they're both there to be, because there's no consensus. In this way you will show the political will of all, the good will of all. So, if there's a good will for everyone, then you can go straight ahead. Mr. Chairman, I am obliged to say this and repeat very clearly, because I believe this is a capital political moment for this country in the next few weeks. I'm afraid by your decision today, which you have offered before us, you will bring us into an even more difficult state. I would like the minister of justice, the foreign minister and the minister of civil affairs, as the Council of Ministers' base working group, to do something about it, so if you agree, it goes like milk through the Council of Ministers. If this goes unanimously in the Council of Ministers, you don't have to be afraid for these working groups where other political parties will participate, then I'm sure 61 will have a result. But I repeat once again, do not allow for political reasons to be rushed without being made. Do not let us be threatened here by the suspension of the Council of Europe and by the suspension of the Stabilisation and Association Agreement because we lied to ourselves. This Council of Ministers, I'm sure, was formed in this hall in January 2007 on a promise to do this. Give it at least... a task force that shows he knows it and he can, and then it'll be easy. Thank you very much, Mr. Chairman. I apologize if I've been a little longer, if I've said some things again. I think this is a capital moment for the country in the next few months, which can lead us in completely two different directions, and I'm afraid no one in honor is in the interest of us going in the wrong direction. And what we're proposing right now is going the wrong way and we're not going to take part in it.
ParlaMint-BA_2010-03-10-0.u33009	Replica, the Honorable Chairman, Dr. Milorad Živković.
ParlaMint-BA_2010-03-10-0.u33010	First of all, I want to say that no one has smuggled into the SNSD Club, nor has it been done at the SDS Club, that we felt that there should be a wide range of all political parties involved in the talks on constitutional changes, as important as you pointed out. We believe that what we in RS agree here should also be confirmed in the National Assembly of the Republic of Slovenia among the broad spectrum of parties that are in the RS in the National Assembly and therefore we believe that we have chosen a good way to participate and participate in this committee. We already have two members from the SNSD, we felt that it could adequately do so and represent the interests and our member of the club. At the same time, for the first time, I believe that the conclusion that you have proposed here is fully respected, which you and your club have relied on several times today. The difference is that the action plan was not delivered until the end of February but that it happened by March 5th and absolutely respected. All I'm asking in this House is whether club presidents have more mandates than their club members, to agree yesterday at the Extended College not to discuss this today. Because I have a list of all those who were willing to vote here, even club presidents, to put this as a part of the agenda, even though yesterday it was a whole other principle of voting on the extended college. I ask club presidents: do you have a mandate from your members to do this more? Everything else was pure demagogue we spent five hours on. We from the RS don't run away from any issues that need to be discussed here, but there is some agreement and order that needs to be respected. The deal was reached yesterday at an extended college and the order must be respected here. We didn't vote for this agenda item, not for either part of the agenda, not because we don't want to discuss it, but because we think it's pure demagogy and the way this country is going in this way. You gave up your club member, Mrs. Malić, you gave up your club member, and now you're pulling it back. Tell everyone here honestly that you're pulling back, in your discussion you didn't say you were pulling out your club member. Tell us here 62 directly: you are withdrawing a member of the SDP Club who, according to the procedures at the request of the Justice Ministry, has been delegated to this committee, and should be said. It should be said that the SDP escapes whenever an important issue is in BiH. We suggested that this, which is now being discussed, be discussed five years ago. Only someone else asked to open a debate about everything, about the Constitution in this country, to bring a new constitution, to go drastically to change the Constitution. Five years ago, we made the same solutions as the ones we stood for today. Why weren't you with us? What's the ex-post mind to say after this verdict that shouldn't have happened: let's talk about it now. Let's do it quickly. You well know, as I know, that the May 5th elections are being declared and that this must be done in order not to be questionable and what you mention every day, the legitimacy of these elections in October. Or are you ready to say, as a state, according to the Action Plan: don't worry, after the election we'll do it. That's why it's speed. And that is why we all need to participate in order to have a two-thirds majority to vote on these amendments. Just getting out of that story shows the entire policy, the cowardice policy of the SDP. Dear Ambassador Mirko Okolić. Here you go.
ParlaMint-BA_2010-03-10-0.u33011	Thank you, Mr. Chairman. Here are those who are interested in how it works or how our club and MPs of the SDS work and those who want to hear it and that there is no acting or need to act. Our club works by having representatives of the SDS, or SDS MPs, it is Mr. Savo Erić and I, and has an independent MP, Mr. Momčilo Novaković, who is not in the SDS (for those who are interested, because you asked if he is in the SDS now, so I understand). So he's not in the SDS, he stepped out of the SDS, and he's acting as an independent MP. ________(?) I thought he was back. [[no microphone turned on]] So he didn't come back, although let me tell you that many will return to the SDS, so that nothing is disputed and many international polls from the renominated houses show that many will return to the SDS.
ParlaMint-BA_2010-03-10-0.u33013	Dear Ambassador Mirjana Malić, replica. Here you go. 63
ParlaMint-BA_2010-03-10-0.u33014	Your Honor, I really don't like to replicate, but I really do this time. There's no cowardice policy of the SDP. Don't tell me I asked at the Expansive College yesterday what happened to the adopted decision on this parliament, which was initiated by the SDP's proposal to conclude. And I got a joint answer from you and Mr. Belkić that it can't be before 23rd or I don't know 20th and some agenda points. I said earlier that I knew why it was 23 and not before, and I told the College that it didn't make sense if the task force was scheduled for 1400 hours. On my return from the College, this welcomed me as a material that has even decided that, as a working group of the Council of Ministers, we would be obliged to do what had not been political will for eight years. And only yesterday afternoon after the meeting, and I said it nicely, did we decide not to spoil your idyll and try to do it the way you ruled. And it's not about any chicken egg. If it were a coward's egg, we would have let go, and we wouldn't have responded at all, and we didn't react to any pamphlets or politics, but offered to Parliament, he could have refused, a conclusion that you had simply adopted the malts unanimously. And don't, please, politically switch to someone else. Look at what you're doing first.
ParlaMint-BA_2010-03-10-0.u33015	Replica, Honorary Chairman, Dr. Milorad Živković.
ParlaMint-BA_2010-03-10-0.u33016	On several occasions, I was talking, simply, about the way it works in this congregation, about planting one misinformation or half-information, and about us losing all day convincing you that it's incorrect. Mrs. Malić, your club is 4. 3. received directly from the Ministry of Justice this information and the Action Plan. I do not care, absolutely, as President of Parliament, whether it has come or not to you or whether it is direct communication between the Ministry of Justice and the clubs of MPs. And that was said yesterday at the Expansive College, along with what later came from the Central Election Commission and their material. What are you talking about here? Did we have to spend all day to prove you wrong? 4. 3. you have received material from the Ministry of Justice sent to your club. And you gave me names. And here we've been losing all day just to prove you're wrong. Why does this Parliament serve? Dear Ambassador Zlatko Lagumdžija, replica. Here you go.
ParlaMint-BA_2010-03-10-0.u33017	Well, first of all, I took the floor because I don't think it's correct that you, as chairman of this home, are speaking to the president of SDP's Club of Representatives, 64 Professor Malić. That's why I picked up the replica first. And if I didn't have any other intentions, I'd only answer for telling you it was too much. Your tone was too high. Your farting after who came, found or came and the like. And your teacher's tone is on your cheek, and whatever I tell you, I'm afraid I'm going to punch into the specklehs, or your cheek, and refuse. But let me get this straight. We are for the Action Plan. We suggested making an action plan. We have proposed that an Action Plan be drawn up because we thought that the action plan that will receive coverage and this Parliament has a better chance of success for this country. The action plan we have received, we do not accept it, we consider it counterproductive for the country and we do not want to participate in the implementation of such an Action Plan that will not lead to results and I warn you in time that this Action Plan will not lead to the implementation of the Court Decision in Strasbourg. And if you set it differently, if you honestly say what is a fact, which is that you who have a two-thirds qualified majority are unable to gain political strength and political will. Since you are unable to do this, it is better, we offer you an honorable thing, to create an action plan that will open this process, that some other people do this instead of all of us here in the time ahead, preferably at the very beginning, and not to put the country in danger of not knowing whether to lose the Stabilisation and Association Agreement and their membership in the Security Council. The fact that you heard that Mr. Dokić (if I understood him correctly, I apologize if I did not) also troubles his participation in this working group. Now Mr Okolić explained to me that he is in this group instead of Novaković, which I was kind of expecting. So this group doesn't practically exist to you in the way the Council of Ministers has made a decision. You, esteemed colleagues and colleagues from the ruling five, have a two-thirds majority mathematically. The Council of Ministers, by the decisions of the competent European institutions (all these papers you have),... is responsible for implementing this verdict to the outside, not this parliament. The Council of Ministers should also offer an action plan on the outside. Parliament offered you a hand to arrange for us to help you, and you won't. If you won't, there's no problem. Here, do your part of the job. If it makes you feel any better, here's our fault today, everything, that's all our fault. So let's do what you can and we won't bother you to make constitutional amendments that will satisfy the Court of Human Rights, but don't hide your responsibility behind us here.
ParlaMint-BA_2010-03-10-0.u33018	Business intervention, Dr. Milorad Živković.
ParlaMint-BA_2010-03-10-0.u33019	The discussions that came from the SDP on this agenda have offended the common sense of this Parliament and the waste of time along with this last... If the evidence presented here wasn't enough, I apologize for giving evidence, but I apologize and for speaking to that tone with the honourable Member and president of your club. It's mine to endure everything even if it comes from your club. 65 Dear Ambassador Drago Kalabić, replica.
ParlaMint-BA_2010-03-10-0.u33020	Here, I'll try a calm tone, quietly ask Mr. Lagumdžija not to do this to Mrs. Malić. That's what you did to the late Joza Križanović, also to a nice man...
ParlaMint-BA_2010-03-10-0.u33021	...no microphone turned on... Shame on you!
ParlaMint-BA_2010-03-10-0.u33022	And you're doing it now.
ParlaMint-BA_2010-03-10-0.u33023	...no microphone turned on... Now I'd spit if I had... the civic powers to do...
ParlaMint-BA_2010-03-10-0.u33024	A little tomorrow.
ParlaMint-BA_2010-03-10-0.u33025	Yes, please get here...
ParlaMint-BA_2010-03-10-0.u33026	Spit on someone else.
ParlaMint-BA_2010-03-10-0.u33027	To treat MPs with respect here, to take a break if we have to, so let's do some jobs.
ParlaMint-BA_2010-03-10-0.u33028	You've been spitin' around here a lot. Look at him behaving.
ParlaMint-BA_2010-03-10-0.u33029	Please! 66
ParlaMint-BA_2010-03-10-0.u33030	So, _________(?) [[no microphone turned on]] So,
ParlaMint-BA_2010-03-10-0.u33032	I cannot hold a session in half the discussion, /at the same time the story of Drago Kalabić and Živković/
ParlaMint-BA_2010-03-10-0.u33033	...we've endured a lot of things from him.
ParlaMint-BA_2010-03-10-0.u33034	When it's over, we'll take a break if we need to, and we'll see what we have to do.
ParlaMint-BA_2010-03-10-0.u33035	We've endured many things from him, and it's not disputed. I stand behind every word of my own, meaning everything we have agreed on at the Kolegijum, is not the first and last time Mr Lagumdžija does when he remembers to come to Parliament: neither his club nor his extended college applies to him. You've seen how he behaves on other committees. And it's not a question of what he's doing to his club and his club president, and that's what it was, I mean openly, with the late Križanović. That everything we set with him the day before, the second day Mr. Lagumdžija here in his own way, but that brings us all into this. Because it's not like that, man lies. We agreed differently with the SDP Club, he has the right to have relations with the SDP Club as he wishes, as..., we are not interested. But we've been hostages for five hours from the story of the penitent Zlatko Lagumdžija who decided to get out of this process, destroying and what was agreed on at the College, tearing down his club. And that's the whole point and why we should be hostages to that story. Until today, we've done exactly as SDP and Zlatko Lagumdžija asked for until this moment. We did everything like that and the man held us hostage for a few hours because he decided and let him decide to come out and get out of this. And let him decide to leave this... but not in a way to hold us hostage in this story. That's what he should have told strangers, about this: I don't want to support it, I don't want it if the story of nine NGOs asking for the visa regime to be abolished. If anyone can convince me it has nothing to do with Zlatko Lagumdžija, it's my personal opinion. And despite that story, this one goes on now. So don't give them visas, don't give them 67 to make changes to the Constitution, don't give them anything, because it's the only way that we can come to power in this country. It's so transparent and obvious. The rest of us who have to put up with this; we from SNSD don't need to put up with this at all. And we can put up with it in a way that we can make it clear, and the others, who can accept this, I think that if it's the essence of the extended college and the way it works, that it loses every sense, that we're some collateral damage. The SNSD won't certainly be collateral damage in this way, it honors everyone, but that's what we're going to change our relationship with some things at the Expansive College.
ParlaMint-BA_2010-03-10-0.u33036	15 minutes break, 15 to 1600. [[PAUZA]] Comrades and fellow MPs, we continue the debate. I'd ask all those who think they can give up the replica, try to get to the point of the agenda that concerns the law, but here we go in a row. Dear Ambassador Malić, business intervention.
ParlaMint-BA_2010-03-10-0.u33038	Thank you very much for the opportunity. So, given what happened 15 minutes ago, on very ugly words and morbid connotations and with the intention of doing what you just said today, something about the law, I'm informing you that we're not going to take any further part in this debate on this agenda point and that we're not even going to participate in the replicas that were announced and that we're going to go back, we're going to engage, as soon as you move on to the fourth point.
ParlaMint-BA_2010-03-10-0.u33039	Thank you. Dear Ambassador Drago Kalabić, business intervention. Here you go.
ParlaMint-BA_2010-03-10-0.u33040	Mr. Chairman, according to your apology to Ms. Malić, I want to hear from you as a Kolegijuma that one of the SDP MPs from the SDP Club wanted to spit on one of the MPs and I don't know if I heard correctly. If everyone else has the right to apologize, I don't know if I've heard it well, if it's said in a microphone, I ask you to identify yourself, it's said in this room, and if you've been able to apologize for where we tried to fix this situation, I think it should be treated by other MPs, and I ask you to act in accordance with the Rules of Procedure. 68
ParlaMint-BA_2010-03-10-0.u33041	We are only able to use a stenogram to check that it entered the record, into the stenogram, so that would be an official then memo that could be forwarded to our committee about how the MPs behave here. We know we didn't bring that, yet to say, document. The document is in the administrative service, its adoption is pending in the administrative service, according to the code, we could determine ourselves according to the conduct of the MPs. In this case, there's nothing we can do right now. We don't have a stenogram, we don't have an MP here, we can just take a break and look for a stenogram. If you suggest that...
ParlaMint-BA_2010-03-10-0.u33042	No microphone turned on half an hour's break...
ParlaMint-BA_2010-03-10-0.u33043	On behalf of the SNSD Club, half an hour's break. [[PAUZA]] My colleagues and fellow MPs, the SNSD Club asked for a break to get a stenogram. Dear Ambassador Drago Kalabić has a reason for the break in front of the club. Here you go.
ParlaMint-BA_2010-03-10-0.u33045	Mr. Chairman, obviously, and the insight into this stenogram shows who said what and as we assumed. After a series of earlier insults to our account, I read my discussion here twice. I don't see any of them, and I'm willing to repeat everything I said. I'm behind it because it's about an extended college that crashes several times as a concept, but it's not a topic right now. After we by the SDP here are called fascists, Chetniks, in the most cruel way offended, we have now come into this situation to make someone spit and probably also physically count themselves. We don't think it's possible in such an atmosphere to work. You're all in position... it's not this question of my own, or me, that we understand each other. If you think it's me, then you can forget it right now. And if it's allowed for Mr. Lagumdžija to work like this and have your permission and support for something like this, then I don't think it's okay. I, on behalf of the SNSD Club, ask the Kolegijum to make a joint statement as to how Mr Lagumdžija behaves. I expect you to do this in the shortest time, and depending on it, the SNSD Club will be determined in the next period and definitely determined according to what the SDP is doing. On several occasions we have asked 69 apologies, normally we have not received it; if our chairman-in-Office of Parliament for such a banal thing is not difficult to apologize for, and that someone else who destroys the integrity of this Parliament does not come to mind, we are not prepared under such conditions to do so. Given that today was the day that it was, if we hadn't done almost anything, that we wouldn't at least spoil these people who are going to do something, the only suggestion I'm making is that next to the proposal to break this session, after this kind of thing, to eventually take this action plan into account and that we can allow these people to work because of these deadlines. It's the only thing we're ready for right now. I'm asking you to put it to a vote, and I'm expecting you to agree to continue the session.
ParlaMint-BA_2010-03-10-0.u33046	Thank you. Surely you are all aware that, in accordance with the Rules of Procedure, what the Kolegijum can do is that in the event that an MP offends the other MP is warned, the second time he withdraws his word, and then, in accordance with the Rules of Procedure and in collaboration with two deputies, he removes the MP from the session. Also, that's all the Rules of Procedure allows. At the same time, this code of conduct, you're as aware of yourself as I am, that he's stuck in the Administrative Commission to complete the operational plan of that code of conduct, so we're not even able to define ourselves according to this code of conduct. At the same time, we in the College have discussed and here we strongly condemn the way the honourable MP Lagumdžija applied in this House, we find it unacceptable and we do not consider it a democratic act that deserves this Parliament and the citizens of this country. We believe that this item of the agenda needs to be completed today and that is why I will give my word to those who have applied, and we will put to the vote a proposal which, from this point of the agenda, first came to be put to the vote, the SNSD's proposal to take note of the vote, and the other proposals that come to the end of the agenda will also be considered and put to the vote. Business intervention, the esteemed First Vice-President, Mr. Niko Lozančić. Here you go.
ParlaMint-BA_2010-03-10-0.u33047	Thank you, Mr. President. Ladies and gentlemen, MPs, distinguished members of the Council of Ministers, guests, I am today, and probably like many of you all day long, he has been reluctant to make my contribution that this Parliament is doing nothing. All the time, believing that we will finally start working, that we will try to realize, I would say, a very ambitious agenda of today's session, we are here after almost seven hours of staying in this hall, not to say work but to stay in this hall, have come to the position that one of the club representatives in full capacity has left the session today's session. And that's why this business intervention of mine. 70 It's very interesting how we allow ourselves to be people like this and in this way, I'm sorry that they're not here, but since I don't have a chance to tell them because they apologized to us today all day here, I have to at least say my attitude towards the behaviour of our esteemed colleagues from the SDP Representatives Club. Since the beginning of today's session, they've done everything and done nothing for the past seven hours. And I have to say it went well. It's not commendable to the rest of us, because we've allowed people to manipulate us, to bring us all to one point in their own actions. So they initiated themselves and, by old custom, when they see that most of them support something that we think is in the interest of this country, then they try to re-infect it for themselves. Well, I mean, if it's from the SDP Club, it's too much! The way SDP leader and our esteemed colleague, Zlatko Lagumdžija, has been acting in this house for a long time is below each level, regardless of what he thinks he has a right to do so. He comes whenever he wants, he leaves whenever he wants, he sits here as long as he wants, and only as long as it takes for all of us who would try to make something impossible, so to speak, to work. I know that these evaluations and evaluations will not appeal to any colleagues, but it is indeed high time that we run an election campaign outside this hall. We're only entering a year of elections, so we're entering a time that hasn't been declared an election campaign yet. But if we're going to run it, we might as well spare this home here even from this kind of campaign management. The SDP club has been telling the Bosnian Herzegovina public all along since the start of this term as it is for BiH's entry into the EU, as it is for visa liberalisation, which is a great thing. At the same time, however, any attempt to meet some of the conditions here in this House through the law-making process in order for us to truly realise this common will, then to be obstructed or opposed or sought in any way to discourage anyone in this House from making decisions that are in the interest of the citizens of this country, and again with the intention to accuse the parliamentary majority of all this. The parliamentary majority is not perfect, after all, we call it the parliamentary majority and we do not call it the coalition, we do not call it the Council of Ministers a coalition, but a council of parliamentary majority. These are the circumstances in which we act. One of the additional reasons to get into the constitutional changes as soon as possible. Here, we tasked the Council of Ministers to make the Action Plan and the Council of Ministers did it. What's the problem now? So, we're not, no one's stopped us from having the Parliamentary Assembly, the House of Representatives bring in their action plan, but here we are, so we don't, here we are in charge of the Council of Ministers. And to the surprise of some who are obviously not in the interest of it, now the only problem of this Action Plan that I have managed to record so far in the debates in which colleagues from the SDP... it has led in a maestro way is that it is not good because it is not large. It's the only grudge in this Council of Ministers Action Plan. Maybe it's too ambitious, maybe we've too ambitiously predicted so many agenda points today and so many legal projects to consider. Maybe, it's all possible. But if we don't have a plan, then it's our fault we don't have a plan. If we make a plan, it's not good because it's too ambitious. I'm sorry, so who paints more in here?? Let's see if there's gonna be a constitutional change. Well, it won't be safe if we don't start working on changes to the Constitution. That's for sure. Will it come within this optimistic time frame? We'll see. It was up to all of us and the Council of Ministers could take and make their working group and make some amendments to the Constitution and say, "Here, we did it." But that's not worth anything unless 71 has no support here in Parliament. And aware of that, they're looking for and proposing to the representatives' clubs because in the present period, when we formed some kind of benign commission, there was an observation that some of them weren't represented enough. Okay. Now it's the widest, as far as I'm concerned, it can be even wider. So I can be, someone mentioned representatives of all political parties today. I don't mind. So I believe that this is not a problem for the Council of Ministers and that part, but we will have a working group that will have a full parliamentary assembly. Well, here's the question. No Niko from the Council of Ministers has forced any club to submit its proposal. Everyone volunteered. What's the problem now? It is now wrong of the Council of Ministers again, because these proposals have been processed so quickly and operationally and have already scheduled today to hold a constitutional session of the working group. As far as I'm concerned, we've accepted, the president's remark that we shouldn't have this on the agenda today is absolutely justified. So we made a deal yesterday. However, I have to say that we supported this getting into the agenda, because it would have happened and it would have been an argument, then it would have been an argument, and you see, you won't let us discuss it at all. So here's the debate. So, even though I don't see what we're going to do now after this debate except for this proposal that the distinguished counterpart Kalabić has already made, we can take this Council of Ministers Action Plan into account. They brought him in. If we're going to participate in this task force, it's every club's business again whether they're going to withdraw their representatives that he's already sent to the Council of Ministers or not. But I don't think the way we've been working today is an honor to anyone. The way some have spoken to others, especially not. I'm not going to repeat what the president said about the statement of a esteemed colleague of Lagumdžija, it's the position of the College and... I have nothing to add, so. I think that today really this session in this very, very, I don't know what to say, the unpleasant atmosphere and we should take note of the Council of Ministers' Action Plan in order to allow the working group to start working and the session to end, and continue after that, there will be a proposal for the College, that I do not prejudge it now, but to try to really use this sequel to work on the agenda points that we have established today. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-BA_2010-03-10-0.u33048	Thank you. Dear Ambassador Branko Dokić, replica. Here you go.
ParlaMint-BA_2010-03-10-0.u33049	Mr. Chairman, whoever I'd like to replicate isn't here, so there's no point in me doing that, and if I'm going to help us finally get to work, I'm going to give it up.
ParlaMint-BA_2010-03-10-0.u33050	Thank you. Dear Ambassador Azra Hadžiahmetović, replica. Here you go. 72
ParlaMint-BA_2010-03-10-0.u33051	Thank you, Chairman. Maybe there's more intervention, I don't know what this is called, which I'm going to suggest, but maybe more about my colleague Kalabić's proposal. You see, we're here for the good part today, with the exception of the proposal and possibly parliamentary issues, proposals that applied to the agenda, the Party for BiH Club was a good part today next to this story, so beyond this story that carried both raised tones and elevated emotions and perhaps words that someone wouldn't say now even though he said them maybe half an hour ago. So maybe that's why we're a little bit more objective. Let me say it a little bit and more objectively, and here in that sense maybe I should suggest it. A colleague of Kalabić asked for the Board's testimony. We have, on several occasions so far, had some situations that required interruptions and arrangements on how to work or continue the work of this Parliament, and here I would suggest the chairman to call the Extended College today so that we can agree on our future work, because here you can see that everyone here can be found offended. Someone's gonna say this one said this, he's gonna say someone was initiated to say it, etc. ... however, let us try a little bit to separate ourselves from emotion, because everything was here today in the hall of many participants in the debate, and what may not be quite individual MPs and certainly not a dictionary and language that resembles the institution of this state parliament. But here, I'll remind you, we are indeed in the best interest of meeting some possible solutions as legislators, let's say constitutional amendments, which I hope will be talked about, and regardless of the outcome, as well as the proposals of constitutional amendments, we have entered into the story of the formation of both these working groups and the Action Plan, etc. And we have classified, or supported it to be included in the agenda, and it is even supported to include this place in comparison to the place, is it, the constitutional amendments that have already been in the parliamentary procedure, we have abstained from any story. So, here, let's say or be realistic, if anyone today had maybe a little more reason to be a little more emotional about this story, it's probably a Party for BiH club, more than some other club MPs. But we abstained, because we rose above party interests, thinking about the general interest of this country. And I ask you nicely to do so everyone here, and present and those who are absent. And I therefore suggest, by chairing you, that you call on the extended college, we can sit in the O.R. 2/II for 10-15 minutes and agree on a follow-up. Thank you.
ParlaMint-BA_2010-03-10-0.u33052	Thank you. The second vice-president, Mr. Beriz Belkić. Here you go. 73
ParlaMint-BA_2010-03-10-0.u33053	Of course, it's absolutely not a replica, it's an explanation. As for me as a member of the College, in this particular case, I react to these words in a way that condemns it. So these terms that Lagumdžija used towards Mr. Kalabić are condemned. So, in a particular case, I join the position of the College. Of course, I'll condemn everyone else, but at this point it's about this. I don't mind if we meet as an extended college, I don't mind the others saying their position, but I want it to be clear, so I joined up and delivered my personal opinion as a member of the College. So, I condemn these terms to a fellow officer, as it says here in the stenogram.
ParlaMint-BA_2010-03-10-0.u33054	Thank you. Replica, Reverend Martin Raguž. Here you go.
ParlaMint-BA_2010-03-10-0.u33055	Well, the replica is on these demands to end the debate now, that is, to end the debate, and to take this into account. I think that at the end of the ballad and at the end of this day, it's not fair of those who suggest it, but now that we're going this way, we should allow everyone to say what they have about this point of the important agenda. There, I'm asking for that part. There are two reasons for that. So, yesterday, the extended college, where everyone was as club presidents, established the agenda. I was talking about it, I wouldn't repeat myself, and it's actually a matter of self-respect for all of us who were there. How did we vote to expand the agenda? I wouldn't use any other word. The second thing is how many breaks are here today, a break requested. Let's check out how much time we've had and who's been looking for them, and see how rationally this Parliament's time is being spent. And the third thing, when this has already taken place on Parliament's agenda, then don't leave this agenda point because it is one of the most important in this country without this parliament saying its opinion on it. And now I'm, uh, here's a quick one so I don't answer twice, I'll be framed in time if you'll let me.
ParlaMint-BA_2010-03-10-0.u33056	I think I've made myself clear enough that I won't challenge anyone's right to answer.
ParlaMint-BA_2010-03-10-0.u33057	I won't be long, not to answer twice, just to... 74
ParlaMint-BA_2010-03-10-0.u33058	So just to be clear. I was so clear that I said everyone could answer, that this was the first proposal we'd vote on to take in knowledge. If the other proposals come out of the debate, they'll be put to the vote. So I didn't.
ParlaMint-BA_2010-03-10-0.u33059	Here, let me make a suggestion.
ParlaMint-BA_2010-03-10-0.u33060	Here you go.
ParlaMint-BA_2010-03-10-0.u33061	Since various judgments have been heard here about how this process will end, for this speaker, for Parliament's speaker, so one was that it was better not to start if we don't end up for this country, which is a very serious political assessment that should not be underestimated, in my opinion, to whether we start within a more reasonable period of time to do a job, to what the Council of Ministers predicted in its plan under point 3. The discretionary right of the state to choose the way they will proceed according to the verdict. That's why I called. And please read this 'Discretional Law of the State depends on whether it is a matter of taking individual measures that will ensure the termination of the infringement and how much it is possible to return the damaged party to the same position that it was in before the breach of the Convention, or whether it depends on the need to take general measures that will prevent new similar infringements, or those already established, or will end continuous violations." You see, the position of the HDZ 1990 to be about continuous violations, not individual violations, and that this Council of Ministers Action Plan should be used to remove continuous violations. And in that sense, there should be no rush here, I mean, parties can show a certain rush which is also positive in contrast to some times before, when constitutional reform was not to be mentioned at all, now some are in a hurry to make this constitutional reform, which is also good and fair. But here, we will participate in the Action Plan. We were at this session, but we will act in a way that is aimed at eliminating continuous violations and which are not only about the verdicts of Sejdić and Finc.
ParlaMint-BA_2010-03-10-0.u33062	microphone not enabled
ParlaMint-BA_2010-03-10-0.u33063	Mr. Džaferović, you tell me after what you think.
ParlaMint-BA_2010-03-10-0.u33064	Please and your sensitivity a little bit, he hasn't spoken to you. 75
ParlaMint-BA_2010-03-10-0.u33065	I end up with this and the question here in the dynamics that is foreseen for the work of this group, which is also very important. It is said here that the working group should offer amendments by the end of the month. Be careful, and then it is said under point 2 that a task force is being established to adopt the Rules of Procedure and that it defines the plan of its activities, which is logical. And when we get to that meeting, we need to propose things, respecting what the Council of Ministers did. We respect that part of the work, but Parliament, the representatives of the clubs should say theirs at this constitutive meeting in which deadlines and the scales this group should work on, and I think it will only then be able to produce some results. If it goes differently on the approach of the final act and on the tactics of fast solutions and the transfer of responsibility to others, then we will return to the beginning.
ParlaMint-BA_2010-03-10-0.u33066	Thank you. We have three now from the SDA Club. Dear Ambassador Husein Nanić, replica. Here you go.
ParlaMint-BA_2010-03-10-0.u33067	I thank you, Chairman. It's more of a business intervention. Since I have received some channels from the Ministry of Justice, the Action Plan for the implementation of the European Court's ruling, we are talking, we have opened a debate on the story, on the Action Plan of someone and in the name of the agenda: as the Council of Ministers' material. I'm in my materials as an MP only got from the Electoral Commission something. This is what MPs are talking about, the Action Plan, etc., I do, and I see here colleagues asking me if anyone, no, we don't have it as MPs at all. So we're talking about concrete things, I don't know if it's this document. I'm here because of some interventions, I have some document from the Justice Department, and here we're talking about a document from the Council of Ministers. I'd ask that circumstance to be cleared up and then we'd move on.
ParlaMint-BA_2010-03-10-0.u33068	Please, the act I was talking about at the pay phone is 4. 3rd passed on to all Members' clubs. Members' clubs had to deliver that act to their deputies at the club. The act in the accompanying letter states that it is an act of the Council of Ministers, and that the ministry of justice is responsible for explaining this act to the Parliamentary Assembly. You all have that act, you had to get from your club president that act. Please, the Minister of Justice is here, and all the clubs of the Members are listed here. Now we can get into whether or not you won, but this is listed. 76
ParlaMint-BA_2010-03-10-0.u33069	That's why we took a break.
ParlaMint-BA_2010-03-10-0.u33070	Please, we got a break. We talked about it yesterday at the Extended College. I don't see any reason to reopen the same subject. Dear Ambassador Drago Kalabić, business intervention.
ParlaMint-BA_2010-03-10-0.u33071	Mr. Chairman, let me just say it again, since it was the wrong interpretation of my conclusion. So I can't think of anything to stop anyone from talking about this. I just made it clear to the SNSD's position that we think this should end on behalf of us. So I had no intention of disputing anyone at all. And also, since we're all clear and familiar, we don't need anyone to give a lecture. We allow all legitimate proposals to be made before the Expansive College. I'm asking you to make a statement about our proposal and after that means we're going, if it's an attitude, here's what we're saying if we need to go to an extended college.
ParlaMint-BA_2010-03-10-0.u33072	Thank you. Dear Ambassador Šefik Džaferović, the debate. Here you go.
ParlaMint-BA_2010-03-10-0.u33073	Mr. Chairman, colleagues and colleagues, I didn't mean to sign up for the replica this time. I followed up to see how long this would take, waiting for the discussion, then reacted when the replicas started again after I was convinced they were gone. It wasn't you, Mr. Raguž, even though you were in the discussion behind me and then you took advantage of the replica and discussed it, but halalysm, it's no problem at all. So that's no problem. And that's why I'd only ask, when we're talking about the way we work, the code of ethics, the code of respect, to take a little care of everything else and these things. I mean all of us colleagues. We can if we all use these replicas, then I don't know where we're gonna go. You see, I am in line with those who think that we should do everything in our power to implement the European Court of Human Rights ruling, no matter what it is or whose prognosis it is. This is how when I observe things, in terms of these deadlines, we have lost two and a half months or more than two and a half months to this day, and only after two and a half or two and a half months, we have an action plan, and in this plan here are the deadlines for the working group formed by the Council of Ministers to complete the work in about 20 days, to have the Council of Ministers do their part of the work, and then the parliamentary procedure goes. Well, I mean, that's something, right. 77 I wish it had come 10 days after the verdict or 15 days after the verdict here in Parliament, we might have more chances. But those 20 days should be used. I belong to those who say that this country should also show the most important thing that this country needs to do is to show that it is serious and responsible when it comes to the execution of judgments of international cases, international courts, in this case the European Court of Human Rights. And I think in these 20 days you should try to do something, to do it. Whether it's going to work or not, that's another thing now. This all depends on the schedule of political forces, the relationship against this verdict. I also belong to the order of those who believe that here, I only use another term, need one complete implementation. Not the cosmetic implementation of the European Court's ruling, because those who assess whether BiH has done its job will appreciate us for whether we have actually carried out the European Court of Human Rights ruling or have made some cosmetics to satisfy. The Council of Europe is what will assess whether we are done or not. Don't worry, it won't be us, and that's why I'm calling and I think, so I'm in line for those who feel that one essential implementation of this verdict should be done, and I'm using that term, and if we get into a position to talk about what it all means, I'm going to talk about it, but not this time. So, I think we should support the Council of Ministers' Action Plan or take it into consideration, however you like, I mean, it doesn't really matter to me. I think the Council of Ministers should be the one to carry the job, this is their Action Plan, and it should be a focus, and I haven't heard that before in this discussion. The Council of Ministers will deliver the Action Plan to the Committee of Ministers, to our agent, and then to the Committee of Ministers, and I am not running away from Parliament, as we are designated club representatives, we are taking part in helping to reach a solution as soon as possible. I propose that this group be led by the Council of Ministers and I will propose that when it comes to establishing a meeting of the group to be led by the minister of justice, by the nature of the work, I think it should be the head of the group and that the other two colleagues from the Council of Ministers be his deputies, the head of the group, and that we MPs from Parliament take part in their call at these meetings and try to find a solution for these 20 days. There's one problem with all this when it comes to procedures. I'd like to say something about that, too. According to these procedures, we need to say everything we have to say here. No, we all know everything, and for those who don't know, and maybe some of us don't remember either: when amendments to the Constitution are at stake, they have to follow the basic legislative procedure. So there's no time-out. It is known that the amendments, that the reports, that there must be a public debate, therefore there must be a public debate, and that the report on Parliament's public debate cannot be delivered before 30 days from the moment the amendments are submitted to the parliamentary procedure. Now, we can just count, I think, and that's what I want to talk about: a group if it ends, for example. By 31st or 29th, I don't know how it stands in the Action Plan, until 31st, right, the Council of Ministers if I don't know when, in two days' time, the proposal, assuming that this group ends, we'll already be in a position to have a public hearing before May 5th, because these are business procedures. 78 However, with a good political will, but a really good political will, with the desire to make this all together, I think it is possible to end the job again and have this for these next elections. It's that the problem, then we'd probably be in a position, not to move election day, elections can't move, elections have to be then as prescribed, but maybe let's see what we can shorten in this election procedure. Maybe about 15 days, 20 days, a month, as long as it takes. So that's one option if there's a good will. So, but in the end, this can end by what we're going to say today: we're not going to talk about it at all. We're late, we're done talking, we're waiting for the election, after the election, let it go. It can end by today supporting this plan and this as I said and most colleagues as I see it, going to that meeting and choosing leadership. Here, I told you what I think is supposed to be, to lead that team, and work, so committed to doing these 20 days. Maybe even 30, I don't know, 40 days, dedicated, see how the job goes. This will require people and leaders of political parties. Let's see what we can do. So, I want us to show a responsible relationship and end it and then be this procedure that I was talking about. It's possible we're working and not doing the job. And so that's one of the possible variations. So we should talk about her too. But we've been working, so we've shown an honest intention, an open intention, we want to do it, we want to do it, and it's possible to end it in one of these ways. The worst thing that can happen to BiH and to all of us is to show that with this thing we're calculating, that we're incorrect, that we're actually playing the European Court of Human Rights verdict, that as the daily jargon says we're faking, that I use that term. It's something we won't need at all. In this I respect everything as legitimate all political views, the only thing I can't and no one will forgive us if we have an irresponsible relationship against this job. That's it, thank you.
ParlaMint-BA_2010-03-10-0.u33074	Thank you. Dear Ambassador Ekrem Ajanović, replica. Here you go.
ParlaMint-BA_2010-03-10-0.u33075	Mr. Chairman, I will replicate my predecessor. I mean, he's made every possible difference about what might happen, except for the simplest solution to this problem and to solve this problem, because we have three amendments to the Constitution at Parliament today. So there is, Mr. Džaferović, and that possibility. Let us adopt these amendments and we have solved the problem completely, not counting the problems that exist otherwise. 79
ParlaMint-BA_2010-03-10-0.u33076	Dear Ambassador Šefik Džaferović.
ParlaMint-BA_2010-03-10-0.u33077	Just for a little while. Really, I'm sorry, buddy, I'm a little tired, since I didn't think of that proposal, it's a really interesting, very interesting thing. That's it, thank you.
ParlaMint-BA_2010-03-10-0.u33078	microphone not enabled
ParlaMint-BA_2010-03-10-0.u33079	Well, thank you very much.
ParlaMint-BA_2010-03-10-0.u33080	Thank you. Dear Ambassador Bakir Izetbegović, discussion. Here you go.
ParlaMint-BA_2010-03-10-0.u33081	I'm sorry. I maločas said you didn't deliver the material. Yes, it is. I named him on the basis of this material by Mr. Šefik Džaferović in this commission outside the SDA Club and handed him the original of the document, I did not multiply it and give it to the other MPs. After that, I was gone, I wasn't in the country, so I got a little confused. So, I'm sorry. Otherwise, I think this whole thing should have been run by the Council of Ministers, that we might have helped, eventually, to have the focus there. And here I am convinced, today this thing is confirmed. Here's how much we can help. We can fight like this. We cannot adopt the Action Plan properly, let alone the constitutional amendments, the fundamental law on which the country stands, unfortunately. I am discouraged after what I have witnessed all day today, silently and waiting for us to finally start doing something. Here's 17.00 hours and 15 minutes. Therefore, the Action Plan is a plan of measures taken by a foreign Contracting Party in order to implement the verdict, including one specific timetable. This is from the verdict. The plan will cover, as far as possible, all necessary measures to implement the judgment. Alternatively, if not possible, establish all measures immediately. The plan will include steps that will be taken to establish the required measures, including deadlines for each such step. The plan will be complemented if necessary. Compared to the nature of the Sejdić and Finc ruling against BiH, it appears appropriate to adopt a Council of Ministers of the Action Plan to determine the operators of the activities and deadlines on the draft amendments to the BiH Constitution and deadlines for laying down amendments and forwarding them in parliamentary procedure. And six, eighty months, we have a deadline to do this. It's been two and a half months, three and a half months to do this. I think we should support the Council of Ministers in trying to offer an amendment within these short deadlines. So let's try to do it. If that doesn't work, we still haven't missed the deadlines, the train hasn't left. You can work on this job by June. So we don't mess things up so they don't, again, fail. Here, they tried, they had a fight, they failed again. So let's try to do this thing in this period briefly; if we fail there's still a deadline until June of the month without being called. Thank you.
ParlaMint-BA_2010-03-10-0.u33082	Since there are no more reports, I am concluding the debate and according to the proposal that we have received here is to take note and vote on it: the Action Plan that we received from the Council of Ministers and the Ministry of Justice, as well as the Proposal for an Action Plan from the Central Election Commission. Please prepare to vote. You can vote now! ‘For’ is 29. There was no "against". ‘maintenanced’ two. I understand that we have received this material and have practically given the opportunity to form this commission by the Council of Ministers and to continue to work according to the established plan. At the same time, the Kolegijum has a simple solution that does not require that an extended college meet, which is to continue the session on 16th, Tuesday, at 10.00 p.m. If you're in the mood to vote on that proposal, if we don't, we'll hold a session of the Extended College. If you're ready to vote, please prepare to vote. You can vote now! Sixteen? It's Tuesday at 10.00. "For" 27, "against" one, "sustained" one. I understand that we have adopted the College's proposal and we meet at 10.00 hours at 16:00 hours. Is there any need to convene an extended college? There isn't. Thank you. The seat was suspended at 17.18.
