ParlaMint-BA_2010-03-24-0.u33816	My fellow Members and fellow Members, ladies and gentlemen, honored guests, I am opening the 74th session of the Parliamentary House of BiH. My fellow Members and fellow Members, apart from our regular guests, members of the BiH Presidency, the Council of Ministers, representatives of OHR, OSCE and other international organisations, representatives of NGOs, we have also called on the chairman of the Office to discuss the complaints of Dr. Amir Pilav for the debate on the Office's work to discuss complaints in 2009, I welcome all present Members and guests. According to service information, 31 MPs are present. The absence was justified by MPs: Savo Erić, Sadik Bahtić, Jerko Ivanković, Lazar Prodanović. I find the session has a quorum for full-time work and decision-making. As for the change of agenda, I want to introduce you that we have removed two points, points 2 and 3 from the agenda. Proposal for a law on copyright and related rights and a proposal for a law on collective exercise of copyright and related rights. The Constitutional Commission has requested an extension of the deadline for submitting the report. The college was approved by 19 April 2010. I find that the Extended College adopted and proposed to the BiH Parliament a revised agenda from the 74th session of the PSBiH House of Representatives. There was no objection to this agenda on the Expansive College itself. Unfortunately, as you can see, there are no legal projects. That's the consequence of the last session we've had twice interrupted, three times continued. However, there are important points that we can discuss today. We're working until 2:00. I'm opening a debate on the proposed agenda. Here you go. Dear Ambassador Sefer Halilović. Here you go.
ParlaMint-BA_2010-03-24-0.u33817	Dear Chairman, fellow MPs. I don't see any reason why we're having a debate at today's session on the State of the Armed Forces initiative, which in 2010 brings out a professional military service agreement with a proposal for a solution, because we didn't get that information. 2 So I suggest that this point be left for the next session and hopefully we get information, so that we can discuss it in quality. Today, let's discuss something we don't have in our hands...
ParlaMint-BA_2010-03-24-0.u33818	Mr. Halilović, this is about your initiative that has passed all the business procedure. The business procedure is to go to the committee in charge, the committee responsible for its opinion on the initiative, and now the House of Representatives should declare whether it supports it. If the initiative is supported, then the requested report follows. So, we're just voting on supporting your initiative and then asking for a report afterwards.
ParlaMint-BA_2010-03-24-0.u33819	I understand that this initiative is supported.
ParlaMint-BA_2010-03-24-0.u33820	No, that initiative went into the commission phase. Human rights has been given an opinion on the initiative and we are now pleading on this initiative. If we adopt her, a report will be required. If we don't adopt it, then there won't be a point of the agenda. No more reports. I'm closing the debate. I find that the 74th session of the House has the next Dn e n i d 1. Parliament issues: (a) Comments on answers received, (b) New parliamentary issues; 2. Proposal for a strategy for sports development in Bosnia and Herzegovina – Proposer: Council of Ministers of BiH, issue: 01,02-35-372/10 of 24.2.2010; 3. Discussion on the Report on the activities of the Council of Europe in 2009 – a proposal for discussion: the PSBiH delegation in the Parliamentary Assembly of the Council of Europe, material number: 04/1-05-5/10 since 12.2.2010; 4. Report on activities on the project "Autoput on Corridor Vc" and Next Activity Plan – Material of the Ministry of Communications and Transport of BiH, issue: 01,02,01/5-29-371/10 of 24.2.2010; 5. Report on the work of the Office for the Review of Appeals in 2009 – material of the Office for the Review of Appeals, issue: 01,02-50-3-386/10 of 26.2.2010; 3 6. Proposal for a resolution on the importance of condemnation of genocide in Srebrenica and war crimes in Bosnia and Herzegovina for the construction of permanent peace –Proposer : MP DenisBećirović ,number : 01-02-12-261/10 since3.2.2010 ;7 . A statement on Parliamentarian SeferHalilović 's initiative from the 71st session of the House ofRepresentatives , held on 3 February2010 , whichreads :" The House of Representatives of the BiH Parliamentary Assembly requires the BiH Council of Ministers to provide complete information on the state of the BiH ArmedForces , which in 2010 brings out the contract and the proposed solutions to this issue to discuss this important issue and makedecisions." We're moving on to the realization of the Ad agenda. 1. MPs' questions: a) Comments on answers received, Comments on the answers received received received received: 1. Halid Genjac and Vesna Šain of the Communications Regulatory Agency asked questions at the 71st session; 2. Velimir Jukić of the Ministry of Interior of the West-Herzegovina Canton and SIPA asked questions at the 72nd session; 3. Martin Raguž, Momčilo Novaković, Nermina Zaimović-Uzunović-Uzunović, Željko Kuzmanović, Milorad Živković of the Council of Ministers of BiH asked questions at the 70th session; 4. Rifat Dolić of the BiH Council of Ministers for the initiative addressed to 66th and asked the question at the 70th session; 5. Sadik Bahtić of the BiH Council of Ministers questioned at the 64th session. Any comments on the answers received? Dear Ambassador Rifat Dolić. Here you go.
ParlaMint-BA_2010-03-24-0.u33822	Gentlemen chairman, colleagues and colleagues, distinguished guests. At the 66th session of the House held on 21 December, I sent an initiative to the BiH Council of Ministers to provide the Parliamentary Assembly with information on the state, scientific valorisation and perspectives of the high pyramid's geological location in High. Instead of asking for information from the BiH Council of Ministers, I once again received a reply from the Federal Ministry of Culture and Sports, and Minister Gavril Grahovac, who I am still not satisfied with because I still find unacceptable findings in that response. I, therefore, did not ask for an answer or information on the state of scientific valorisation and the perspectives of this site 4 to be delivered to me personally, but to the Parliamentary Assembly of BiH, that is, this home. I think this time the Federal Ministry of Culture and Sports has shown indolence and indifference against this, in my opinion, an important issue. For this reason, I once again insist on the full information of the BiH Council of Ministers on this issue to be submitted to the BiH Parliamentary Assembly, so that the Assembly and MPs will be familiar with the official position on this issue. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-BA_2010-03-24-0.u33823	Thank you. Dear Ambassador Momčilo Novaković. Here you go.
ParlaMint-BA_2010-03-24-0.u33824	Thank you, Mr. Chairman. Here, I received an answer, namely, I asked two questions – will there be a committee quota for importing sugar into BiH in 2010 and, if they will, in what way? And secondly, what are the effects of previously adopted changes to sugar imports? So, I got the answer that in 2010, quotas for importing sugar will be approved, which, of course, makes me very happy. It is also explained here in what way, i.e. what will be used as the basis for the adoption of this tariff quota. But what I have to say is that I wasn't very happy about is the answer to the second part of the question, which is – what are the effects of the measures previously taken? In fact, the ministry has said very much that it appreciates that the aim of the law has been achieved. I also appreciate that the objective of the law has been achieved. And that's where the Ministry and I absolutely agree, that is, Minister and I. What we disagree on is financial effects. Namely, the financial effects of exempting from paying import duties for raw materials are achieved by using installed capacities and employment in BiH. I must say that I had the opportunity, and most of you, to hear a statement from the deputy vault minister who made it perfectly clear how much BiH lost due to the suspension of customs duties on sugar imports. He also made it perfectly clear what the negative effects of making this decision and this law are. I tried to get to how many new employees were employed in this company, and I failed to get the information that even one new employee was employed, which would say that some of the employment effects were not achieved. And it would have been good if the Ministry had made it perfectly clear, we had achieved these employment effects, the company had so many employees, it received so much and so much. Or, if we hadn't done that, out of 100 and some employees there wouldn't have been anyone left to work or there'd be 20 left to work. Of course, we could then compare this with some other measures taken by the BiH Council of Ministers, which resulted in a reduction in the number of workers in many companies, and not just the Council of Ministers of BiH. Of course, I said that when it comes to financial effects, they were spoken of more by the Deputy Minister, and there are probably some financial effects that are not seen here. 5 It is also said here that it is possible for companies to be competitive on the domestic market, because on the world market there has been a significant increase in sugar prices, and here we have a lower price than in Croatia and Serbia. I suppose the ministry wanted to say that, thanks to this measure, we have not increased the price of sugar as in Serbia and Croatia, which would mean that Croatia and Serbia should also apply this measure in order to reduce the price of sugar. The only thing I don't understand is, who is the danger of importing sugar into our market if these prices of sugar in Croatia in Serbia are higher than ours? What dangers we were running from when we passed the law, or what fear that our sugar prices would rise here when they were more with those who were supposed to take it out on us. Thank you.
ParlaMint-BA_2010-03-24-0.u33825	Thank you. Dear Ambassador Denis Bećirović. Did you get the question? Answer to the question you got, right?
ParlaMint-BA_2010-03-24-0.u33826	A comment on questions, and when you don't get an answer, that's an answer. That's why I'm going to be very short.
ParlaMint-BA_2010-03-24-0.u33827	Yeah, I see I didn't read you that you got the answer, so I don't know.
ParlaMint-BA_2010-03-24-0.u33828	Yeah, that's right. Given that I have not received an answer to a number of questions and that many other MPs have not received dozens of other questions, I am merely proposing in this part of the session, if possible, that we conclude that the College requests that all the questions we have not received be delivered to us and that, possibly, another emergency be referred to the BiH Council of Ministers and those to whom we have so far asked questions.
ParlaMint-BA_2010-03-24-0.u33829	Yes, I will remind the BiH Parliament that we have on several occasions delivered such aggregates. I have a tip from the secretary that this latest summary report is being made, so you'll be getting that report as soon as possible. Dear Ambassador Martin Raguž. Here you go.
ParlaMint-BA_2010-03-24-0.u33830	Thank you. So, the question I asked at the 70th session was – What was done by the Council of Ministers of BiH on the realization of the conclusions of this House adopted 9.7 last year, related to 6 extreme floods in Popovo Polje, the Kupi River and Hutt Blat, and what effects have been achieved and what is the realisation of the project management of Neretva and Trebišnica financed by the World Bank of 8 million dollars? I got the answer and now it doesn't matter that I'm not satisfied with the answer, but the worst thing is that, from the conclusions adopted to today, floods that didn't happen last year were even more extreme. And, of course, there we should be objective and reflect these climate events that have been, which are objective causes. (However, the fact is that at the realization) The conclusion of the 1st of this House, I will now read it very quickly, which we have entrusted to the Ministry of Foreign Trade and Economic Relations, that by the end of last year, in cooperation with the competent entity water ministries, water agencies, Elektropivred RS, i.e. hidroelektrana plants Trebišnjica, Elektroprivred Herceg-Bosnia, Hydropower plant Chapljina, define, establish and intensify the existing monitoring and exchange of data relevant to the work. Meanwhile, a commission was formed that, according to this proposal, only half of this month should establish a protocol. So it's been a year, there's been a disaster, that's what we do. When we proposed that real instruments of this country be introduced at BiH level to coordinate the issue of water management, then there is no agreement, so they are given to those who have competences. Here, we didn't question powers or competences, they won't work, and the people get hurt and the messages are, indeed, disastrous, I have to say discouraging. And the only thing I can say and repeat the question and ask for a full debate about this. Thank you.
ParlaMint-BA_2010-03-24-0.u33831	Thank you. Dear Ambassador Mirko Okolić. Here you go.
ParlaMint-BA_2010-03-24-0.u33832	It's a new question, if there's no...
ParlaMint-BA_2010-03-24-0.u33833	There is.
ParlaMint-BA_2010-03-24-0.u33834	Dear President, Dr. Milorad Živković.
ParlaMint-BA_2010-03-24-0.u33835	Thank you. 7 For a long time, I say, I have been considering the issue of dual citizenship and the conclusion of bilateral agreements. And, here, the answers I received from the Ministry of Foreign Affairs and the Ministry of Civil Affairs give me the right to say that the approach to resolving this important issue in BiH is for all of its citizens who live especially in the diaspora, unseriously, disorganised or, least of all, casual activity. It's visible from the response I received from the foreign ministry that says he doesn't have a plan to conclude these contracts, that it's a matter in the jurisdiction of the Civil Affairs Ministry. But they always have opportunities to hold talks with the country's competent authorities, (receive and initiate the start of talks to conclude these agreements). It's an unserious approach to this important issue. And that the situation is even worse and the answer I received from the Ministry of Civil Affairs, which literally says in the last sentence -- that, given the exposure, the issue of the relevance of further initiatives to conclude bilateral agreements on dual citizenship is being raised because of the blocking of those by the BiH authorities. So, in this country, they are consciously blocked and they agree with countries whose constitution allows these bilateral agreements to be made, and they will probably decide to try to find themselves somewhere in this Parliament, and that is the amendment of the Constitution, and we are aware that what the Constitution allows us to do, we do not want to respect, we do not want to use, but we want to further politicise this issue and to talk about changes to the Constitution. This is inadmissible and is an obstruction of the implementation of the Constitution in BiH in connection with the conclusion of bilateral agreements on dual citizenship. Let's go in turn, Reverend Mirko Okolić. Here you go.
ParlaMint-BA_2010-03-24-0.u33836	Thank you, Mr. Chairman. I have four parliamentary questions for the same ministry, that is, for the Ministry of Human Rights and Refugees. Given certain speculations that may be correct or incorrect, I have drawn out these parliamentary questions that I am now going to ask. 1. How many residential units have been restored, and now with the permanent place of residence are not its owners? 2. How many residential units were restored and the owners alienated them? 3. How many housing units have been restored by the peoples? 4. How many incidents were committed to returnees and religious facilities by municipalities, or entities? Thank you.
ParlaMint-BA_2010-03-24-0.u33837	Thank you. The next is distinguished representative Šefik Džaferović. 8
ParlaMint-BA_2010-03-24-0.u33838	Mr. Chairman, colleagues and colleagues, ladies and gentlemen. I have one question – At the beginning of this year, on the territory of Bosnia and Herzegovina, in the municipality of Bijeljin, official features of the Republic of Serbia were set, the official inscription of the municipality of Bogatic. I'm interested in who did it and based on what? What did BiH authorities do to remove these inscriptions? In particular, what did the BiH Border Police, the BiH Foreign Ministry and the RS MUP do? What were the reactions of the municipality bodies of the municipality of Bijeljin? According to a letter that I, as deputy chairman of the Defence and Security Commission of the BiH Parliamentary Assembly, I was informed that in the area of the municipality of Bijeljina, therefore, on BiH territory, more than 800 m after the state border crossing of the Pavlovic Bridge, within BiH, this sign was placed. So the inscription, the official inscription of the community from the neighbouring state. That's why I'm asking this question and I'm asking for an urgent and sharp response from the BiH state authorities. That's it, thank you.
ParlaMint-BA_2010-03-24-0.u33839	Thank you. The next is the distinguished representative Azra Alajbegović.
ParlaMint-BA_2010-03-24-0.u33840	Dear Chairman, colleagues and colleagues, ladies and gentlemen. I have a very short question about the indirect tax administration that reads – How much money has been paid from VAT, taken on VAT, for medicines during 2009, and how has the return of VAT-based money for entity budget medicines been made in terms of concrete figures? I wouldn't list the reasons, since the explanation would be very long and complicated.
ParlaMint-BA_2010-03-24-0.u33841	Thank you. Next is the distinguished representative Slavko Matić.
ParlaMint-BA_2010-03-24-0.u33842	Mr. Chairman, distinguished colleagues and fellow MPs, honored guests. I have one question for the Council of Ministers of BiH – What has the BiH Council of Ministers done so far and what is it planning to do to put the waterway on the Sava River and the river ports in Bosnia and Herzegovina? A brief explanation – namely, otherwise it is known that water transport, in this case river, is among the cheapest and probably the cheapest, and therefore would be very important to put into operation as soon as possible and that part of the waterway on the Sava River, as far as possible. In particular, I would like to highlight the possibilities and importance of a river port in Bosnia and Herzegovina, which was built before the war itself and was practically never used, is not put into office, although it is even larger than the Brcko river port. The importance of this river port is its location and location itself, it is directly linked to the Šamac – Sarajevo railway. On the other hand, you are probably aware that last year, the construction of the Shamac-Vukovar channel, or Sava-Dunav channel, was finally launched in Croatia, which was planned for decades in the Republic of Croatia, and which will reduce the earlier waterway from Šamac via Belgrade to Vukovar, i.e. Sava and Danube, according to central Bosnia, by 400 and a few kilometers. For all these reasons, it is very important that the BiH Council of Ministers urgently take action, as far as possible, to put the river waterway on the Sava River as soon as possible into operation. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-BA_2010-03-24-0.u33843	Thank you. The next is distinguished representative Šemsudin Mehmedović.
ParlaMint-BA_2010-03-24-0.u33844	Gentlemen chairman, ladies and gentlemen of the council. Here, I have a very short set of questions for the Minister of Civil Affairs – Why has there not been a defined way of conducting inspection supervision of the implementation of the Law on Medicinal Products and Regulations adopted under this law, which is carried out by the Pharmaceutical Inspectorate? Then – Why is no programme defined to pass a special expert examination for a pharmaceutical inspector, the composition of the examination committee and the method of passing exams, because the implementation of the Drug Act is late precisely because of these provisions? Then a set of parliamentary questions for the Council of the Medicines Agency. First, when will the director of the agency start with the full application of the Law on Medicinal Products, without the choice of members, whose application insists and (at the same time delaying inspection) of those large drugstores that do not respect the law? Because it is a drug market and the BiH market is flooded with non-quality drugs and drugs of suspicious quality and origin. Then, in Article 80(4) of the Medicinal Products Act, it set out that the conditions, circumstances and procedures for the engagement of authorised laboratories for the purposes of control and quality, as well as the way in which the records of controls carried out in this way, are to be kept, shall be prescribed by the expert board on the proposal of the Director of the Agency. However, the Agency's director, without respecting the provisions of the law and the adopted regulation that would prescribe the expert council, has launched activities and concluded a contract with the agency from Serbia. The contract is not presented to the expert council. Why, I'm asking. On the basis of what provision of the law is this contract concluded, and who authorized the conclusion of such a, under the drug law, of an invalid contract? And the third -- in the Drug Act, Article 83, item 1 of the list of essential medicines, it is said that the Council of Ministers of BiH, at least every 2 years, and, on a proposal from the expert board of the Agency, with the prior consent of the competent ministries of entities and the Department of 10 Health of the Brcko District, establishes a list of essential medicines in BiH. Why hasn't it been done so far? Thank you.
ParlaMint-BA_2010-03-24-0.u33845	Thank you. The next is distinguished representative Husein Nanić.
ParlaMint-BA_2010-03-24-0.u33846	Thank you. The chairman, colleagues and fellow MPs. Here, I would like to ask the Ministry of Justice and the Council of Ministers of BiH, and this is about the following. We are witnessing that media have announced these days that the Security Intelligence Agency of the Republic of Croatia has been listening to a senior state official of BiH, which, we will admit, is an international scandal. At the same time, there are indications that the Security Information Agency of Serbia, too, has the possibility of listening to BiH citizens, in which the scope of the work can only be guessed. I ask the question, so I am looking for an answer – Does the Council of Ministers of BiH and the Ministry of Justice have any knowledge that BiH citizens are listening? What has been done and what will be done to prevent the illegal surveillance of its citizens by other countries' security agencies?
ParlaMint-BA_2010-03-24-0.u33847	Thank you. The next is Honourable representative Selim Bešlagić.
ParlaMint-BA_2010-03-24-0.u33848	Honored chairman, respected colleagues and colleagues, honored guests. I am going back a little bit to our Parliament, so since we are constantly discussing entity voting, I have two questions, respecting yesterday's session. In how many cases in this House of Representatives meeting, PSBiH used an entity vote to reject the law and what laws? And second question – In the same period, how many cases has an entity vote been used to reject other acts, conclusions, decisions, resolutions, declarations, appointments and what acts are involved? Thank you. That's what I'm asking for from the BiH Parliamentary Assembly.
ParlaMint-BA_2010-03-24-0.u33849	Thank you. The next is distinguished representative Mehmed Suljkanović. 11
ParlaMint-BA_2010-03-24-0.u33850	Dear Chairman, esteemed colleagues and colleagues, distinguished guests. I have a short question that I refer to the Ministry of Foreign Trade and Economic Relations and the BiH Veterinary Office. Is there any other institution in the field of BiH other than Banja Luka-based Animal Marking Agency working on the same job that is in the exclusive jurisdiction of the Animal Marking Agency? A brief explanation – The BiH Council of Ministers' decision since 2004 has formed at the state level of the Animal Marking Agency, whose responsibility is exclusive to the labelling of animals throughout the BiH territory. There are indications that other institutions operating in the BiH area are also carrying out activities from the animal labelling domain, and as has already been said, the Agency's competence in Banja Luka is exclusive. Thank you.
ParlaMint-BA_2010-03-24-0.u33851	Thank you. Next is Honorable Representative Momčilo Novaković.
ParlaMint-BA_2010-03-24-0.u33852	Thank you. Mr. Chairman, distinguished colleagues and colleagues. I have an initiative within this point. Namely, I propose that, and I launch an initiative to put on the agenda the next item of the agenda – Setting up guidelines for the action of temporary delegations that participate in international meetings on behalf of BiH. In fact, not only lately, but very often we have temporary delegations at various international meetings, or interparliamentary meetings, come into the situation that members of the delegations are making different views, which, of course, causes serious damage, first of all, to the presence of the delegation, and on the other hand, is causing serious damage to BiH's reputation. I was offered this, to propose this, the fact that the business-defined behaviour of permanent delegations is defined and that before leaving, permanent delegations must hold a session to take positions on issues that are on the agenda. So, in some ways, permanent delegations are obliged to agree their views before leaving and act accordingly. Of course, and sometimes there are deviations, but at least we've defined it in a business way. When it comes to temporary delegations, we do not have business provisions and that is why I am proposing this item of the agenda, with the aim of in some way giving instructions to committees working on amendments to the Rules of Procedure or simply making the temporary committees bound by one conclusion of the House to that kind of harmonisation. Especially since it was an initial chapel, is a report discussed at the Joint Defence Commission, which the Joint Commission did not accept because members of the delegation had completely different views on some of the issues under discussion, and on behalf of the 12 delegation, the chairman of the delegation signed a document, which the others disagreed with. It is not usual for the report to be rejected later by committees. After that happened, it motivated me to propose a agenda like this and I'll deliver the initiative. Thank you.
ParlaMint-BA_2010-03-24-0.u33853	Thank you. The next is Remzija Kadrić, a respected representative.
ParlaMint-BA_2010-03-24-0.u33854	I thank you, Chairman. I have two short questions, I will not explain them, which are: The first question to the BiH Council of Ministers – What activities does the BiH Council of Ministers take in relation to public administration reform, and in line with the Public Administration Strategy adopted in 2006? And another issue to the entity governments, the Federation of BiH and RS – Why is the decision of the BiH Constitutional Court on the consistency of the people in relation to proportionate representation in public administration institutions not being implemented? Thank you.
ParlaMint-BA_2010-03-24-0.u33855	Thank you. The next is Honorable Representative Adem Huskić.
ParlaMint-BA_2010-03-24-0.u33856	Thank you, Mr. Chairman. I also have two very short questions without comment, both for the BiH Council of Ministers. The first question is – What international agreements, which have been ratified by BiH, have not been ratified by the other signatories country? Second question – When will the following laws on the Agency for the Information Society and the State Aid Act be referred to the parliamentary procedure, since these two laws are inter alia related to the process of European integration? Thank you.
ParlaMint-BA_2010-03-24-0.u33857	Thank you. The next is distinguished representative Denis Bećirović.
ParlaMint-BA_2010-03-24-0.u33858	I ask the question of the chairman of the BiH Council of Ministers – What did you specifically do with the objective of achieving the objectives set out in the Citizens' Platform for the 2006 elections, which, as we know, was signed by more than 500,000 BiH citizens, and during the period from 1 January 2007 to 20 March 2010? 13 I also ask similar questions to some ministers, but let me not repeat them, behold, I deliver them all in writing.
ParlaMint-BA_2010-03-24-0.u33859	Thank you. Next is Honorable Representative Rifat Dolić.
ParlaMint-BA_2010-03-24-0.u33860	Gentlemen chairman, colleagues and colleagues. I have two parliamentary questions. The first question is the College of the PSBiH House of Representatives – On whose orders and whose grounds is the ban on giving information to the public on the level of salaries and other receipts of MPs in the BiH Parliamentary Assembly? The other day, guest BH Dnevnik 1 was a representative of the Centre of Civil Initiatives, which monitors the work of the Parliamentary Assembly of BiH, and said that in his 2009 report on the assessment of the work of the Parliamentary Assembly, they did not publish the receipts of MPs because it had placed an embargo on the public use of this data. With all the reserves, and sometimes the distortion of information about the receipts of MPs in the BiH Parliamentary Assembly, I think it is unacceptable that these data are not available to citizens and to the public, and from the point of view of ordinary citizens it is not pleasant to listen to how someone has given the embargo to use these data. We are not managers chosen by the board of directors or supervisors, we are MPs who have elected citizens and whether we like it or not, citizens and the public have the right to know about our incomes as well. For this reason, with the answer to the question raised, I ask that the information on the receipts of MPs in 2009 be placed on the official website of the Parliamentary Assembly of BiH on all grounds. If there is no consensus on this, I ask that I personally be provided with information on my 2009 incomes on all grounds to make them available to citizens and to the public. The second question is the appropriate resolution minister in the BiH Council of Ministers – Are there official data on the number of public cuisines in BiH, places where they work and the number of public cuisine users, and how they finance them? To ask this question, I am encouraged by moving pictures from public kitchens and cry out that budget spending restrictions do not go to the expense of reducing the value of grenades and spending on public kitchen work. The rise in the number of public cuisines in BiH and the number of users in them is a humiliating achievement in the 21st century, but obviously, for many today it is more and more the only salvation from hunger and it would be good to see whether this humiliation can be at least a little more dignified from the issue of public cuisine in BiH. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-BA_2010-03-24-0.u33861	Thank you. The next is Honourable representative of the Sead Jamakosmanović. 14
ParlaMint-BA_2010-03-24-0.u33862	Mr. Chairman, colleagues and colleagues. My question is addressed to the Ministry of Justice and the Ministry of Security. How do asylum seekers at BiH's immigration centre exercise their right to health care? Thank you.
ParlaMint-BA_2010-03-24-0.u33863	And we have the last question, the chairman, Mr. Lozančić.
ParlaMint-BA_2010-03-24-0.u33864	Thank you. Dear colleagues and fellow MPs, respected members of the BiH Council of Ministers, I will ask a very intriguing question, hoping it will be in a positive sense and understood and treated. I very often, in communication with some colleagues here at the BiH Parliamentary Assembly, but also in everyday life, hear that there is a widespread new kind of dangerous in this country, and if there is a very, very dangerous and socially harmful criminal activity. Allegedly organised criminal groups are blackmailing different businessmen, different authorities at different levels and different persons making very important decisions in this country, threatening to be processed in a negative context in certain media unless they provide illegal property benefits, allegedly, or so on. media racket. I ask the Ministry of Security, OSA, SIPA, the BiH Prosecutor's Office and all BiH law enforcement agencies – do they have at least operational knowledge of the existence of this type of crime and, if available, how widespread and what do they do to sanction these forms of criminal activity? We are no longer interested in asking parliamentary questions, and we are moving on to the second item of the established agenda. Ad. 2. Proposal for a strategy for sports development in Bosnia and Herzegovina – Proposer: Council of Ministers of BiH, issue: 01,02-35-372/10 of 24.2.2010 The BiH Council of Ministers delivered the proposal for a strategy in parliamentary procedure on 24.2.2010. The Constitutional Commission, as competent, delivered its opinion on 22.3.2010, in which it unanimously supports the adoption of the strategy and proposes to the House that, because of the importance of the document, it draws a conclusion that it will be in charge of the Constitutional Commission to organise a public debate and deliver a report to the House for the final adoption of the Strategy. I'm opening a debate on the strategy proposal. 15 Dear Representative Šefik Džaferović
ParlaMint-BA_2010-03-24-0.u33866	I'll say just as much as you did on behalf of the Constitutional Commission. We discussed this document and he arrived as a proposal and it should be adopted as a proposal, however, given the importance of this issue, given that perhaps for the first time in BiH we are bringing this strategy, to the initiative of some members of the commission and I think it would be a good initiative, we have decided to hold a debate here today on the document, and then to organise a public debate and deliver a final report to the House for adoption. So we ask you that, perhaps, this little unusual procedure thing we respect, because this is a proposal that should be adopted today, actually, but here's what we're not going to lose if we do another debate within ourselves. Because I've heard more from some other entities outside the parliamentary commission that it would be good to have a broader public debate on this document. The Constitutional Commission is ready for that. Thank you.
ParlaMint-BA_2010-03-24-0.u33867	Thank you. The next is distinguished representative Husein Nanić.
ParlaMint-BA_2010-03-24-0.u33868	I thank you, Chairman. Here, I would like to open a story about this strategy of our sport development, i.e. the Sports and Sport Development Strategy in BiH, with the praise of the Ministry of Efforts to make some progress in this area in BiH through the adoption of the Law on Sports, here, and today we have a strategy for developing sports in BiH. This strategy, which can indeed serve as a good basis for possible and new ideas that should be incorporated into it, shows that there are 75 alliances in BiH, total, meaning, counting both entities and Brcko District and Canton, 14 at BiH level, that there are 1909 sports clubs. Yes, in BiH, at the level of BiH there is a law, here, we will also get a strategy. Yes, at the entity level, the RS entity has the law and has the strategy. That the Federation of BiH has no law and no strategy. That 9 cantons, although they had an obligation to comply with their sport laws, that, in the Federation of BiH, 9 cantons did not comply with their laws. What is as the situation in the sports alliances here is stated, through the point 4.3 of the evaluation of the state of sports alliances at the level of BiH, through 7 points, it can generally be said that of 14 sports alliances at the level of BiH, when we speak, it is concluded that it is an extremely bad business of the alliance, that the weak organisation and communication within individual alliances, that there is a clear lack of vision of the alliances, that the lack of young, educated personnel in alliances, that out of 14 presidents of the alliances, 11 were never athletes, that of 14 general secretaries of them 9 had never dealt with sport, that most of the alliances had no office or professional staff, and they didn't even have their own website. What is positively stated is in the three alliances of the Bowl Alliance of BiH, and I know that it was the insistence of certain MPs that the BiH Council of Ministers should also allocate certain funds and I think we adopted that for one, the Bosniak Union, is not a kuglaški. I see here, three positive things are 16 basketball, the Handball and the Bowl Alliance in BiH, and the rest is all in a very questionable, i.e. poor condition. What we can do is the following, what I have singled out important in this strategy, is that through the adoption of the Law on Sports, the Council of Ministers of BiH adopted new acts that have significantly contributed to the development of sports in BiH, i.e., opened the possibility, is a regulation on the management of the register of legal and physical persons in the field of sports, is a regulation on the categorization of athletes and is a decision to establish a state-run prize for sport. Especially after this third decision, I would like to congratulate the ministry for introducing this way and this one process, an event in BiH, in the award ceremony, of the state award for meriting athletes in BiH. What's here, in my opinion, the biggest drawback when we talk about the state of sports, is that sports infrastructure. And this strategy states that since '88. So-called a project that was, and was made in BiH somewhere around 4,000 sports facilities, that it will be necessary to build a special strategy related to the construction of sports infrastructure, I believe there is no mention here when it will be done, and I believe that it will have opportunities through this public debate and cited. What's also a future in sports development is what's so-called. Professional sports clubs, especially in the ordinary jargon present, football clubs, means, what is the West, which is Europe, means we today have almost 100% registered clubs as citizens' associations. I don't think there's enough space for this segment on this strategy. And finally, what I see as a good thing in this strategy is a clear action plan in six segments that also determines the operators of the activities and objectives and the overall activities that will need to be implemented on this strategy. Finally, to finish, I really want to give full support to this strategy and through a public debate we'll probably have the opportunity to get those things that I, too, here, partly found here, to be embedded in this strategy. Thank you.
ParlaMint-BA_2010-03-24-0.u33869	Thank you. The next is Remzija Kadrić, a respected representative.
ParlaMint-BA_2010-03-24-0.u33870	I thank you, Chairman. I'll do it very briefly, this is an important document and I support the idea of having a public debate...
ParlaMint-BA_2010-03-24-0.u33871	I'd like to ask the Honorable Representative Džaferović to give a little... 17
ParlaMint-BA_2010-03-24-0.u33872	...is an important document. I'll just draw attention to this page on page 19, when it comes to this European Agreement, it should be, this prevention of the violent, inappropriate behavior of viewers at sports events, especially at football matches. Therefore, from this, there is an agreement, in that part this agreement should be implemented. From this part, it would be important, we have the Sport Act, in Article 58. The law provides for an obligation to establish special regulations, to resolve these issues. So let's take this as an idea. Let anyone propose this law on prevention, on misbehaving at sports games, that in such a way this obligation be removed and resolved from this agreement. Thank you.
ParlaMint-BA_2010-03-24-0.u33873	Thank you. The next is Honorable Representative Martin Raguž.
ParlaMint-BA_2010-03-24-0.u33874	I thank you, Mr. President. Very briefly, so, after this information and the willingness of all of us to support this strategy and support the proposal to open a public debate and to give one support to this document, I would say very briefly the following. So, the BiH Parliamentary Assembly is in charge and responsible for adopting this strategy. I'll remind you of Article 8. The law on sport in which it is said – in order to achieve public interest and objectives in sport, BiH sets out a strategy for the development of sports in BiH, and Article 10 of that same law says that the strategy and development programmes for sports, not only the strategy, but also the development programmes for sports, are adopted by the Parliamentary Assembly of BiH. So, we've never faced each other before, and this is our responsibility, and I think we're off to a good start. I, basically, think the only bad thing about this strategy is that it's not a quality-based state of sports in BiH, as a assumption that it's going into resolution, because good diagnosis means an assumption of getting rid of it, and here they have some grades. And only one of those grades, please allow it, is so significant that it deserves special attention. He says -- a survey conducted by the Committee for Youth at the Council of Ministers of BiH shows that the ratio of the younger population in BiH is higher than in EU countries. In this same study, we see that every other girl or every third man is not at all engaged in sports, not even recreationally. Not to say that 40% of young people don't do recreational work at all. So almost 50% of the population isn't covered, not just regular, but even recreational sports activities. If we start from the objective of the Strategy to form a system and mechanisms that will ensure that sport becomes a significant part of the culture and total material and spiritual values of society, support this debate, participate in it, improve this strategy and show that the talents that exist in this space are not just the fruit of chance but tomorrow will be the fruit of a serious system. 18 Thank you.
ParlaMint-BA_2010-03-24-0.u33875	Thank you. Dear Ambassador Selim Bešlagić. Here you go.
ParlaMint-BA_2010-03-24-0.u33876	Dear chairman, colleagues and colleagues, honored guests. I must express my satisfaction that today we have won the Sports Development Strategy in BiH. The other side is the thing I would like to support right away, it is a proposal to hold a public debate on this strategy, because it will fix some things in this public debate. The third thing that is very important, I think that this strategy is very important because this team that has done these things has given one general conclusion that sports in BiH is, in fact, I would say, unorganised, that it is not in terms of what we would like and that is why I think this public debate would fix, that is, give a better picture of it. What I'd like to express my dissatisfaction is that in this committee that has been working on the strategy there is no one in the northernist Bosnia area, I'm going to say specifically from Tuzla, but that doesn't mean they didn't get involved. But I think it's probably a lack of this member, too, and here, in the first indicators you have here in this strategy, find page 12, where you're talking about the state of sports in BiH, where it's said that in the Federation of BiH you have 37 sports alliances, and then down the number of sports alliances in the Federation of BiH cantons, so it's said that the number of alliances, for example. In Tuzla Canton, you have 14. Now, when you turn the next page, the number of clubs in the Federation of BiH cantons, says Tuzla, you don't have any clubs, that there are no clubs in Tuzla canton, which in other words means we're highly developed with alliances, but you don't have sport. I mean, that needs to be fixed. I'm just saying that to make it right. And what's very important here is one of my associates said, that's this European Charter of Sports. I just said yesterday that BiH ratified the European Charter of Sports, I think 13 years ago. The problem is that this charter is not published in the Official Messenger. In other words, it cannot be used and therefore it would be necessary to check again what I have information and simply that, if ratified, it should be published in the Official Messenger in order for it to be absolutely implemented here in this chapter 5.13. Once again, I welcome the adoption of this strategy. I propose that here, I join those who propose that a public debate be published and, after a public debate, we definitely accept this strategy as a good thing for sports in BiH, according to all these remarks that are being heard here today, and with public debates.
ParlaMint-BA_2010-03-24-0.u33877	Thank you. Dear Member Nermina Zaimović – Uzunović. Here you go. 19
ParlaMint-BA_2010-03-24-0.u33878	Thank you very much. Chairman, colleagues and colleagues. I would like to join the predecessors who advocate public debate on this document and add something that may not be said to this occasion. In fact, we don't have much information here about where the sport starts, doesn't start from top athletes, sports starts from the earliest age. And so at that stage, we have to develop, make a strategy for the youngest population to embrace sports activities and very different sports. I think it's missing this strategy, that kind of information. On the other hand, sports activities and affinity towards further lifelong activity, let's say, sports, start right from eight-year-old school. We, unfortunately, don't have that infrastructure. In fact, sports and sports infrastructure are often mixed very often. A lot of money is invested in magnificent sports facilities, on the one hand, and on the other hand, in the same places, practically, clubs are shut down for which such sports facilities are built. I think the strategy should respond to the synchronisation of these activities, so I'd like to join these predecessors to discuss it in a public debate. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-BA_2010-03-24-0.u33879	Thank you. Dear Ambassador Denis Bećirović. Here you go.
ParlaMint-BA_2010-03-24-0.u33880	Since it is an extremely important document for the development of sports in BiH, and this is a strategy that should track the direction of the development of sports in BiH, I would ask, indeed, that, in connection with this document, we get introductory remarks from the minister in charge. It is truly inappropriate for such a serious topic to be discussed, without anyone present from the resolution ministry and that we cannot get specific clarifications.
ParlaMint-BA_2010-03-24-0.u33881	If you allow me to interrupt you, then the minister is on his official trip to Budva, here is the assistant minister and can give everything the MPs ask for as a note. Here you go.
ParlaMint-BA_2010-03-24-0.u33882	Well, then I hope to hear from the deputy minister, is that right, assistant, okay? There are very few open and important issues here. A colleague, Bešlagić, asked a question and we would like to hear the answer to that question. If certain experts from the University of Banja Luka, Sarajevo and Mostar are already engaged, from the university of sports or what are they called, physical education, physical education, etc., why did they not hire experts from the same very successful university and in Tuzla? Not to mention this data, it is impossible for 20 to stand if this is a serious strategy spoken of by a colleague, Bešlagić, that there are 14 alliances, and there is no sports club. If only a fragmented insight into this document shows such major material errors, then the question is what kind of strategy is this, how seriously is it done, and how many people, first of all, experts, people from sports were involved in making it.
ParlaMint-BA_2010-03-24-0.u33883	Thank you. The second deputy chairman, Beriz Belkić. Here you go.
ParlaMint-BA_2010-03-24-0.u33884	So, I, too, join those who support the position of the Constitutional Legal Commission and will immediately refrain from a debate that I will have the opportunity to have at a public hearing and again here. I answered for two things. So, Mr. Nanić stressed the importance of the BiH award event for worthy athletes. For your information, there were no 10 people from the government institutions in that solemn act. So this is what I'm saying so you don't speak at a public hearing. So on the one hand, we support it, on the other hand, when such an event happens, it is rather “poor - looking. ” Also, I would like to point out one activity that was led here in the BiH Parliament in this area, thanks to Mr. Martin Raguž, therefore, to our involvement in, to say the international parliamentary sport, we were also hosts of such a tournament and I must tell you that it was one type and possibility of affirmation of BiH. We also got letters of thanks, etc. And finally, as far as the minister's participation and presence are concerned, I think we missed the topic when it comes to this particular minister, indeed, it is the minister who is bound to be here and now there is an assistant and I think we should accept that as enough.
ParlaMint-BA_2010-03-24-0.u33885	Thank you. Dear Ambassador Rifat Dolić. Here you go.
ParlaMint-BA_2010-03-24-0.u33886	Gentlemen chairman, colleagues and colleagues. And I'd like to join in commending the author's address and the very quality of this document. I would also like to join the support, initiatives and a proposal to hold a public debate on this strategy, because it simply stems from the importance of sport and from the desire to further improve this document and, of course, more competent people participate in this. Of course, the development of sport is in direct correlation with the general and economic development of society, and that is, unfortunately, today the main limiting factor, both so far development and, unfortunately, further development of sport. In such a situation, it is, of course, necessary that development projects are at least a little focused on the development of sports and sports infrastructure. 21 I don't know if it's wise now, I have one amendment, or after a public hearing, if there's another debate, maybe on... I've got the amendment, I'll pass it on, but I won't explain it now. Thank you.
ParlaMint-BA_2010-03-24-0.u33887	Okay. Thank you. So, Assistant Minister, the Honorable Mr. Suad Džafić. Here you go.
ParlaMint-BA_2010-03-24-0.u33888	Gentlemen Chairman, honourable MPs. First of all, I feel very nice that we are even discussing this topic today, because there are also many more difficult and topics and tasks that our institutions have to carry out, since a few notes have been requested here, here, I am working to clarify certain things. The minister of civil affairs formed a Working Group for the construction of sub-legislative acts stemming from the Law on Sports in BiH, and specifically for this strategy it formed a sub-group consisting of 11 people. There could have been more people, however, due to the functionality of the meeting, etc. It consists of 11 people, representatives of the Olympic Committee, entity ministries responsible for sports and the Ministry of Civil Affairs. Any document, like this, can be better and always better when the public debate is being held as widely as possible. That is why this strategy is confirmed by the BiH Parliamentary Assembly. So any suggestion will be welcomed to this document as well. As for the remarks on the information on the number of clubs in Tuzla Canton, although no one is here from northeastern Bosnia, as it is said, we have organised a public debate in collaboration with the Faculty of Physical Education in Tuzla. We recommended to the public debate organizer at the Faculty to invite the MPs who came from that area, that's one thing. So, I don't know if the MPs got those calls. When making the document, we had to manipulate relevant information, so the information we received from the competent entity and cantonal ministries. The number of federal alliances is included here because we got information from the federal ministry. However, there is no number of clubs because we have not received relevant information from the competent cantonal ministry, so the Ministry of Education of Science, Culture and Sports of Tuzla Canton. Besides, we held public debates at the Faculty of Physical Education in Sarajevo. And as you know, the Ministry of Civil Affairs in last year formed a Council for Sport of BiH, which consists of 17 experts, so professors, experts and athletes who also gave a positive opinion on this text of the strategy.
ParlaMint-BA_2010-03-24-0.u33889	Please, let's just listen a little bit. 22
ParlaMint-BA_2010-03-24-0.u33890	This text of the strategy could have been more extensive. However, due to competencies in the sport of entity and cantonal ministries, certain representatives of these ministries insisted that, for example, children's sport be defined by sports development programmes and strategies that will be adopted by entity competent ministries and cantonal ministries, which will be in line with this strategy. That's it. If there are any other questions, I'm here.
ParlaMint-BA_2010-03-24-0.u33891	It's a command question.
ParlaMint-BA_2010-03-24-0.u33892	So, as a member of the Council of Europe, we have the obligation to bring in certain documents and this strategy, we have also given guidance to make it mandatory for the BiH Parliamentary Assembly to adopt certain legal solutions that would regulate those areas.
ParlaMint-BA_2010-03-24-0.u33893	Thank you. Here, we have heard some answers, it will probably remain if the BiH Parliament supports the proposal to open a public debate and there will be an opportunity for amendments to act on this strategy if we do so. But here. Dear Ambassador Selim Bešlagić. Here you go.
ParlaMint-BA_2010-03-24-0.u33894	Well, I, Mr. Deputy Minister, didn't want to criticize, I said it was spotting right away. Now here's the practical criticism going on that we've included that there's no sport in Tuzlani Canton, but we're going to fix it, it's not that problem. I mean, I appreciate the effort. We didn't get an invitation to participate in this debate, it would probably... it remains for us in Tuzla Canton now to tell the Minister of Sports and Culture what's going on, because there's no data, here, in that sense. For these reasons, I think it is very important that what is said to be a public debate in which we will correct all these things. When you said about the charter, here I would have you, I initiate it and I think that is a fundamental question, I would have asked the Secretary of the Parliamentary Assembly of BiH to verify this information that this assembly has ratified this Charter of the European Parliament, but that it is not published in the Official Messenger which makes it impossible to apply and this charter that is binding for us. So it seems to me, if it's ratified, it's far easier for you too, that you can initiate the adoption of a law, and in that sense, here, I repeat it. And the third thing I forgot to say, and I think Mr. Nanić said that, the problem here is that nine cantonal alliances did not comply with our sport law with our 23rd BiH sport. That's the question he's taking here, and here, and for you, and for everyone else, what do we do to make someone enforce those laws? It's a question we'll have to deal with in particular. Thank you again, and I think we're gonna have to correct this in Tuzla Canton.
ParlaMint-BA_2010-03-24-0.u33895	Thank you. Dear Ambassador Denis Bećirović. Here you go.
ParlaMint-BA_2010-03-24-0.u33896	Since I didn't get an answer to the question, I'm going to have to ask him more directly now and ask the Ministry's representative to answer that question. We here have an opportunity to see, at the beginning of the strategy, what is the composition of this sub-group for the development of the Sports Development Strategy in BiH. And here we have 11 representatives, 2 are from Banja Luka University, 1 University of Sarajevo and 1 University of Mostar. My question was – was there no place, if there was already such a college and it was very successful and for one place for a man from Tuzla University? But here, let's skip it. Of the 11 people, is it possible that you made such a composition that you don't have any man coming here not to say from Tuzla, from northeastern Bosnia, where one million people live, almost every third resident of this country. How could you skip one million people? Which bureaucrats make the compositions of such commissions, and to skip, this is about sport, not the three-part division of this country of Banja Luka, Mostar, Sarajevo. In that city, there is a European champion, the Unity basketball club, etc., as there is in Sarajevo, it seems to me that the 'borac“ from Banja Luka in handball, too, has achieved, I don't know exactly whether he was a European champion, but I know he had top results, etc. I ask you to answer this question here at Parliament, why you skipped an entire region where there are certainly sports collectives that are still state champions today in different sports that have their own and tradition, here, have a university special, when it comes to it.
ParlaMint-BA_2010-03-24-0.u33897	Thank you. Replica, Reverend Martin Raguž. Here you go.
ParlaMint-BA_2010-03-24-0.u33898	Well, here's to the esteemed Denis, so we shouldn't be focusing on the fact that anyone was in preparation for this task force, because the document is much more comprehensive, it gave a much stronger basis, that it doesn't turn out now that this failure, I'm not saying that and that's not a failure, but that goes into the first plan compared to what the document offers, and here, we've already heard that there's an organized public debate in Tuzla. And I think in this public debate that follows, we all need to make a contribution to adopt this document. 24 And to a respected assistant, the BiH Parliament does not confirm the strategy, the BiH Parliament, by law, adopts the strategy, and that is such a drastic difference. So we can change this strategy, that's our authority. But we want, in cooperation with you, this public debate, not with you, now we need to call from all these colleges important people to respected athletes, sports workers and make really one shift, because this country has that potential.
ParlaMint-BA_2010-03-24-0.u33899	We said it was a good strategy, that we'd open up a public debate, I don't see any reason for replicas on this subject, but here. Dear Ambassador Šefik Džaferović. Here you go.
ParlaMint-BA_2010-03-24-0.u33900	Short, Mr. Chairman. I think this may have been an opportunity, this man is least responsible, so I don't think we should bring him here in a position to feel uncomfortable, he came to defend that strategy that we say is good. But, unrelated to that, I would like to say that otherwise, we are not allowed to do things in BiH, Denis is right, because we must not look at things in BiH at the route of Sarajevo, Banja Luka, Mostar; Bosnia and Herzegovina is much wider. There are regions in BiH that are recognizable in every way, including sports, cultural, economic, in every way. We need to draw resources from all over BiH, and in this context I'm talking about it. Me, for example, but not to open any further discussion. Thank you.
ParlaMint-BA_2010-03-24-0.u33901	Thank you. Dear Ambassador Denis Bećirović. Here you go.
ParlaMint-BA_2010-03-24-0.u33902	I just want to say to my colleague Raguž, that by any chance there has been no representative here from Mostar, in the region of Herzegovina, I would also have responded in principle why there is no, etc. So I react in the same way no matter how I come... Well, here, Nanić mentions Krajina, but in this sporty way, I tied Krajina, in a way, to Banja Luka, as in this story of northeastern Bosnia and Herzegovina, somehow tied to Tuzla, etc. But why does this matter? First, I am not running away from saying very clearly here today that, when discussing any strategy, now about sport, tomorrow about energy, the day after tomorrow, that something third, that the region of northeastern BiH and Krajina should always be represented, and the region of Sarajevo and the female, and that I do not have everything. I think this is very important for BiH's development. However, there are more important reasons than that. It is about the following – in some cities or some regions, the accent is on some other sport, and some are strong as handball players, somewhere on basketball, somewhere on athletics, etc. How can we make one uniform strategy of 25 sports development if we don't hear directly from these people's opinions and if they are not represented in this group that does the strategy. That's what it's all about, then.
ParlaMint-BA_2010-03-24-0.u33903	Thank you. Dear Ambassador Bakir Izetbegović. Here you go.
ParlaMint-BA_2010-03-24-0.u33904	Replica is a colleague of Denis Bećirović. He is right, I think that we can also make some conclusion in this sense today that all regions should be represented in sports policy-making bodies, but I don't think it's right or that we can achieve something by pressing the Assistant Minister, Mr Džafić, because he insists that he now says..., etc., but rather, here is one conclusion that the BiH Parliament (to the ministry) and that the trail remains written about it.
ParlaMint-BA_2010-03-24-0.u33905	Thank you. Dear Ambassador, Mehmed Suljkanović. Here you go.
ParlaMint-BA_2010-03-24-0.u33906	The Honorable Chairman. When it comes to this lack of representation of the region of northeastern Bosnia, I might remind you of something that is not a coincidence. I would remind you that even at the Higher Education Agency, there are no members coming from the University of Tuzla or from the region of northeastern Bosnia. So I get the impression this isn't exactly an accident.
ParlaMint-BA_2010-03-24-0.u33907	Dear President, Dr. Milorad Živković, replica.
ParlaMint-BA_2010-03-24-0.u33908	As usual, because I really don't understand that the long-term work that he's done with one strategy, which we've even agreed here, that we're going to arrange in a public debate, that this is how we end up discussing it. Because then the question will be raised to ask the assistant minister, the minister is not there, why isn't it organized at the Palace, because there or no one participated because he has a college there. Why has no one in that part of RS participated in this strategy, etc., etc.? Where's that gonna take us? It will lead us to a solution that 9 cantons try in the Federation of BiH to persuade them to comply with the sport law at BiH level. You have a problem with the Federation of BiH, don't transfer it to state level every time. This strategy is good, people have worked long enough, everyone is involved. The fact that you haven't been called in Tuzla, please leave your personal vanitys 26 on the sidelines. It's been discussed, and here it's suggested that we talk about it again and it's not right again. Well, it's really hard to compromise here. Dear Ambassador Azra Alajbegović. Here you go.
ParlaMint-BA_2010-03-24-0.u33909	Dear Chairman, colleagues and colleagues. I actually wanted to say that there are important professional references to the working group and that in some ways we should focus the criteria in terms of quality, professional references to those who make or work in working groups on any document or strategy. I really respect the remarks of my colleague Denis Bećirović on the absence from the task force of someone from Tuzlan Canton, and I fully support the comment that agent and colleague Mehmed Suljkanović made on the issue of the Higher Education Agency because it happened, in that agency, not that the candidate from Tuzlan Canton entered, but that the candidate who had fewer professional references than the candidates who, under the circumstances, had been a candidate from Tuzlan Canton. And that's a situation we don't need to repeat. So, professional references to being criteria and when professional references are criteria, not criteria of localpatriot, subjective experience, I don't know what or interpretation, then we'll certainly go better and better forward. We're too small to put everything into local patriotism right now. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-BA_2010-03-24-0.u33910	Thank you. Replica, honourable MP Selim Bešlagić. Here you go.
ParlaMint-BA_2010-03-24-0.u33911	Well, first of all, let me say, I supported the strategy, I said we were going to a public debate, I said certain shortcomings that arise because we didn't have access. We absolutely accept that we are responsible from the Tuzla Canton or election unit, which we may not have acted more strongly to invite us, etc., perhaps it's a mistake that we should have been invited by you to come there. But let's not get into it. What I want to replicate to you, Mr. Živković, is the question that this Parliament has no ability to order lower conclusions that they must comply with the law that we are bringing here. This is a fundamental issue and the whole problem in BiH is the application of these laws, which we do not seem to have here a legal finding that will say that they are under our responsibility to comply with the laws this Parliament adopts. And I'm going to give it as an initiative next time to do an analysis and try to find measures that will force just this, I'd say, incorrect behavior, without any distinction, I agree with you that we have a bigger problem, but I'm dissatisfied with the government of Tuzlan Canton for not harmonising that sport law with the Framework Law. Just as I am unhappy that she did not comply with the higher school education law with the BiH Framework Law. I asked that question, I got the answers that voted, we don't know what we're going to do and how we're going to do it, here in the BiH Parliament. There's a problem. And that's why I say, once again I want to say, I'm not calling an assistant, we've been given an opinion, we're glad he's an assistant, and the essential thing is, we're accepting a strategy, we're going to a public debate. But, please, let us try to make the laws that we bring here in Parliament that they are binding and have their legal consequences for those who do not respect that law.
ParlaMint-BA_2010-03-24-0.u33912	Thank you. Dear Ambassador Adem Huskić, the debate. Here you go.
ParlaMint-BA_2010-03-24-0.u33913	Thank you, Mr. Chairman. All the time, I've been thinking about whether I should say something at all or sign up for a replica or a debate. I thought there wouldn't be any stories since, in my opinion, everything I had to say was said in the report of the Constitutional Commission. So, the Commission supports, unanimously supported the adoption of the Strategy and proposed that a public debate be organised. And I think that was enough at this stage. We are, unfortunately, or fortunately, (I think we should not have opened a public debate before the public debate), all of what is said here and much more, should have been said in public debate and then when we hear people who do this in a direct or less direct way, to hear what they think, what they have to say, to take these opinions into account and then to fix this text. Thank you.
ParlaMint-BA_2010-03-24-0.u33914	Thank you. No more reports. I'm closing the debate. Moving to point three, Ad. 3. Discussion on the Report on the activities of the Council of Europe in 2009 – a proposal for discussion: the PSBiH delegation in the Parliamentary Assembly of the Council of Europe, material No: 04/1-05-5/10 of 12.2.2010 Citing Resolution 1575 of 2007, the Parliamentary Assembly of the Council of Europe, which calls on the parliaments of the member states to hold a debate on this topic at least once a year, the chairman of the delegation delivered a proposal to put this item on the agenda. As a material for this point, you received a report on the activities of the Council of Europe in 2009 with the following contributions: - Report of the Monitoring Committee of the Parliamentary Assembly of the Council of Europe on the functioning of democratic institutions in BiH, 28 - Supplement to the Resolution of the Parliamentary Assembly of the Council of Europe in 1701 of 2010, - Recommendation of the Parliamentary Assembly of the Council of Europe in 1894, - Report from the meeting and meetings of the Committee of the Parliamentary Assembly of the Council of Europe, attended by members of the delegation of the Parliamentary Assembly of BiH in the Parliamentary Assembly of the Council of Europe during 2009. The Foreign Affairs Commission delivered Opinion 23.3 and adopted the following conclusions; under 1. The Foreign Affairs Commission is receiving a report on the activities of the Council of Europe in 2009, with a special reference to the Monitoring Committee of the Parliamentary Assembly of the Council of Europe on the functioning of democratic institutions in BiH, 2. The Foreign Affairs Commission proposes that the PSBiH House of Representatives be in charge of the BiH Council of Ministers for the Development of the Action Plan by which the issue of meeting obligations and recommendations from the Report on the functioning of the BiH Democratic Institutions and Resolution 1701 and the Recommendations of 1894, 3. The Foreign Affairs Commission recommends that the report on the functioning of the democratic institutions of BiH and Resolution 1701 and the Recommendation 1894 of 2010 be forwarded to lower levels of government to meet and recognise their share of obligations under these documents. 4. The Foreign Affairs Commission urinates the acceleration of ratification of the Regional and Minority Languages Charter, which is one of the remaining post-accession commitments, 5. The Foreign Affairs Commission calls on the BiH Presidency to speed up the process of appointing BiH representatives to international bodies and this to the European Committee for the Prevention of Torture and Inhuman or Degrading Treatment or Penalty, the Advisory Committee of the Framework Convention for the Protection of National Minorities, the European Committee against Racism and Intolerance and the Venice Commission. I'm opening a debate. Dear Ambassador Bakir Izetbegović, please.
ParlaMint-BA_2010-03-24-0.u33916	As the chairman has just pointed out, I think it's a comprehensive report that is complemented by all the necessary materials, and I'm just going to point out the most important parts of this report. So the first part relates to the activities of the Council of Europe itself, you have lists of topics, i.e. points that we have discussed at four regular sessions. In addition, a commentary to celebrate the 60th anniversary of the celebration, the 60th anniversary of the Council of Europe, marking the 50th anniversary of the Court of Human Rights at the Council of Europe. Last year, the secretary general was also elected. It was elected early this year and chaired by the Parliamentary Assembly of the Council of Europe. 29 The Council of Europe, therefore, is preparing very thoroughly the agenda points. And here you can find very high-quality materials related to what is the domain of the Council of Europe's interest, i.e. its expertise, the development of human rights, the development of democracy, the development of the rule of law and rights, but also other topics such as topical topics related to ecology, global warming, the economy, the global economic crisis. So, if you're interested in these things, and I think they're interested, you can either find them through the secretariats of this Bosnian delegation at the Council of Europe or on the Internet. The second part of the report concerns the activities of the Bosnian Parliament delegation at the Council of Europe, and you can be sure that this year's delegation was something more active. Three times a month, the Committees of the Council of Europe meet on average, and we cannot attend everything for economic reasons, and also because it would be in collapsing with the holding of these parliamentary sessions, this House Parliamentary Assembly. But you'll see that we're about to stick somewhere, when the benchmarks are at stake, to stick with our activities, we're somewhere in the middle of the table. Then, the report discusses the relations of the Council of Europe and BiH. Specifically, therefore, on the activities of the Council of Europe related to our country. You have a comment on the Action Plan on harmonisation of legislation, especially in the segment of human rights, democracy and rule of law, and which is very important for BiH's progress on the European path. Then, a GRECO report was adopted by the Council of Ministers. And for that, you can find details on the Internet. Normally, the European Court of Justice's ruling in the case of Finci and Sejdić was also commented. About that I won't be long, it's a very current thing these days in the House. And finally, the Monitoring Team's report on the functioning and progress of the development of democratic institutions in BiH. You have this whole report, and I'm just gonna pull some accentes out of it that I think are important to mention. So it's a real diagnosis of the situation in BiH, unfortunately, depressed. The assembly regrets that no constitutional reform has been reached, leading to a stalemate in the work of state institutions, to the extent that the entity and party's actions are blocked by decision-making. BiH lags behind neighbours on the way to Euro-Atlantic integration, and lagging behind is increasing every day. The assembly is convinced that it is still possible to reach an agreement on constitutional reforms at the last minute. However, the Assembly notes that negotiations must focus on the overall set of reform proposals supported and approved by the Venice Commission. A partial approach, based on short-term compromises and ambiguous formulations, will only cover up the problems BiH faces. The assembly is deeply concerned by statements and the actions of political officials from the highest level of RS undermining state institutions and contesting the authority and authority of the High Representative. The assembly believes it is high time to launch a big debate, a broad debate on the problems BiH is now facing. The assembly calls on BiH authorities to stop obstructions and act constructively in state institutions in order to quickly adopt the main laws necessary for progress on the 30 Euro-Atlantic integration path, in order to implement the remaining obligations. The assembly, therefore, is seeking to speed up, to implement remaining obligations, especially the National War Crimes Strategy and the National Strategy for Reforming the Legal System. It also asks us to take care of the High Representative's decision to extend the mandate to international judges and prosecutors. It calls for a general reform of local self-government with a specific goal of strengthening fiscal decentralisation, developing local authorities' capacities and promoting inter-entity, municipal co-operation. The assembly also wants to ensure media pluralism and ensure equal access to the media for all political parties, especially in the year of the pre-election campaign. The assembly is asking for an urgent adoption of the revised strategy for the implementation of the Annex VII Dayton Agreement. The funds for implementing the revised strategy should be secured under the BiH Parliamentary Assembly Decision of February last year. So it's about the loan we made the Decision, and we never realized it. Also, it is required to urgently adopt the necessary laws to organise a general census in 2011. Finally, to carry out its legal obligations, to complete the final decision on Brcko and pave the way for the end of the international audit. In recommendations, the Assembly is demanding that co-operation programmes with BiH be stepped up to facilitate the achievement of constitutional reform. And to take into account the launch of a broader discussion where key domestic and international actors would participate, as well as members of the Peace Implementation Council and the Council of Europe offer its services in organising such a discussion. This resolution, Report, Resolution and Recommendations were adopted in January of this year and they do not intend to wait one year to make a new report. Already in April, I mean, they're going to draw the line again and we're going to have BiH on the wallpaper again. Our Foreign Affairs Commission has thoroughly processed this report and made quality conclusions and I propose that these conclusions be adopted. They want the BiH Council of Ministers to deal more specifically with this report this time, to develop an Action Plan for the implementation of commitments, and to send the report to lower levels, to lower levels of government so that they too take into account their own obligations and make, possibly, similar action plans. I'm at my disposal for all questions.
ParlaMint-BA_2010-03-24-0.u33917	Thank you. Dear Ambassador Remzija Kadrić, please. 31
ParlaMint-BA_2010-03-24-0.u33918	I thank you, Chairman. As the chairman of these delegations said, this report is indeed comprehensive, and in that part these conclusions of the Foreign Affairs Commission are good and should be accepted. What should be a little bit here for the chairman to see, try to give a few sentences, (let's try this one before... correct). On page 8, when it comes to the judgment of the European Court of Human Rights in the case of Finci – Sejdić v BiH, which stands here, the relationship between the Council of Europe and BiH in 2009, marked the European Court of Human Rights ruling against BiH, because of discrimination between roma and Židov in the elections for members of the BiH Presidency and the House of Peoples and the Parliamentary House of BiH. I think it was better here to simplify things, to get a little bit here, like this unhingedly said, so carelessly. The court reached a verdict in the case, this is how it should be done – the court reached a verdict in the case of Finci and Sejdić against BiH, concluding that the inability of applicants to be, not to be elected, but to be run, there is no legitimate reason, etc. I think it would be enough for such an assessment, such a qualification in that part, to finally present that part in such a way. Although there were still a lot of things to discuss, I suggest that certain corrections be made in that section. Thank you.
ParlaMint-BA_2010-03-24-0.u33919	Dear Ambassador Bakir Izetbegović, replica. Here you go.
ParlaMint-BA_2010-03-24-0.u33920	Well, I think it has marked significantly because you know that it comes into consideration even if we don't get the results of the future elections and it's a very hot topic between us and the Council of Europe and they've been insisting on this thing for years. But if the Assembly sees it that way, we can also ease the formulation.
ParlaMint-BA_2010-03-24-0.u33921	Dear Ambassador Remzija Kadrić, respond to the replica.
ParlaMint-BA_2010-03-24-0.u33922	So the verdict needs to prescribe those sentences, from the verdict, exactly, stands, the inability of applicants to be nominated, not elected. So the verdict needs to be rewritten, and that's enough, and not the other one...
ParlaMint-BA_2010-03-24-0.u33923	Dear Ambassador Slavko Matić. Here you go. 32
ParlaMint-BA_2010-03-24-0.u33924	Thank you very much, Mr. President. As already said by the head of our delegation at the Parliamentary Assembly of the Council of Europe, Mr Izetbegović, who was also present at the meeting of the Foreign Affairs Committee the day before yesterday, we focused on the activities of the Council of Europe that have direct ties with BiH at the session of this commission. So this report on the functioning of BiH's democratic institutions, a resolution concerning BiH and recommendations on this. That is why we have proposed, in our opinion, these conclusions, which, on behalf of the Committee on Foreign Affairs, I suggest, if this is acceptable to the majority of this esteemed House, that these are also the conclusions of the PSBiH House of Representatives. Although we have just said in a second conclusion that we propose this to the House of Representatives, this time I suggest that the House of Representatives frame all five conclusions in its conclusions, if that is acceptable, of course, and most. Here I would like to emphasise, in particular, the fulfilment of the obligations laid down in our conclusions, points 4 and 5. The Charter of Regional and Minority Languages is something that for many years the representatives of the Council of Europe, through this Monitoring team, have made an observation and a few years ago the Parliamentary Assembly of BiH, and all the BiH authorities have, we have been together to ratify this Charter, but then there have been some changes in the Charter itself, the installation of certain annexes, and later all together have become complicated, and to this day we have not ratified this Charter, although it is one of the remaining post-admission commitments for BiH. In conclusion, under number 5, we cited something that continues to damage BiH's interests, which is that BiH has not filled many vacant places, particularly with the Council of Europe, which has left our country at its disposal and we have been waiting here for a long time for an agreement within the BiH presidency, since it is the institution that needs to make proposals. And it's inadmissible to put it off and prolong it. So, finally again, I propose on behalf of the Foreign Affairs Committee that these be also the conclusions of the Parliamentary House of BiH. Thank you.
ParlaMint-BA_2010-03-24-0.u33925	Thank you. I just want to point out my colleagues and colleagues, so, according to an agreement with the Extended College, at 2:00 a.m., a break will be made by 3:00. At 3:00, work continues until we finish work today's session. Dear Ambassador Husein Nanić, come in.
ParlaMint-BA_2010-03-24-0.u33926	I thank you, Chairman. Here, we have received, so, in accordance with the decisions of both the Council of Europe and our Delegation, a document that we can truly assess as being comprehensive and it includes all activities, such as the Council of 33 Europe, our Delegation, the decisions made regarding BiH, to the participation of our representatives in the committees of the Council of Europe. (What can be seen from this document and in this time, this year, the year behind us and the years ahead of us), can be seen and noticed from this document and from our story of approaching European integration, that BiH is in the constant monitoring of institutions, European institutions of the Council of Europe, the EU. And in this sense, in particular, here (one of the 11 points of this document) on the functioning of democratic institutions in BiH, when it is said that the Assembly will monitor the situation in BiH and that at its next session, before the April session, it will examine the progress made by the government in implementing this and earlier resolution. So this is a continuous process, a process in which all BiH institutions must be active, involved in respecting our obligations, both imposed and those we have accepted and committed through various international agreements that we will implement and continuously work on these processes. In this regard, it is a good conclusion that the Commission is in charge of the BiH Council of Ministers to make an action plan on the issues listed in these resolutions regarding progress, i.e. the functioning of democratic institutions in BiH. What I would further like to emphasise about this document is that this document is the first time, here, we see that it contains and, as far as I remember, it has not been an opportunity for... it contains the activities of our representatives in committees, so the working bodies of the Council of Europe and I want to welcome this progress, and I simply point out that there is also a need to provide sufficient resources for the active and quality participation of our representatives in these committees. Finally, what Mr Matić said, these obligations for which there is really no reason to continue to be delayed and not to finish them as soon as possible, which are the adoption of this Charter and the appointment of our representatives to the institutions of the Council of Europe. They have three clear appointments listed here in the international bodies of the Council of Europe, through various of these institutions where BiH is obliged to do so, and this is also contained in our conclusion by the Commission, means, appointments to the Committee for the Prevention, Torture and Inhumane or Degrading Treatment or Penalty and the Advisory Committee of the Framework Convention for the Protection of National Minorities and the European Committee against Racism. There's a thing that can really be solved very quickly and there's no need to delay any further. In this regard, I also support this proposal by Mr Matić, who said that all the Commission's conclusions were also the conclusions of the BiH Parliamentary Assembly.
ParlaMint-BA_2010-03-24-0.u33927	Dear Ambassador Martin Raguž, discussion. Here you go.
ParlaMint-BA_2010-03-24-0.u33928	Thank you. This is a good report, and on behalf of the HDZ in 1990, I welcome it, the way it was prepared here, as well as presented by the head of the delegation. I also support that these conclusions of the Committee on Foreign Affairs be an integral part of this House's conclusions on this point and I think 34 that this is a way for us to constantly have this approach at the House sessions, that Parliament's responsibility be practiced. As far as that part is concerned, I've already made it clear, but I'd like to say something about these two key documents, very briefly the same thing. This is a recommendation in 1894, some of these parts were quoted by Mr Izetbegović, as a report, i.e. document 12 and 112, it is a document under the heading – Function of democratic institutions in BiH. What should be seen in the recommendations, this point 2.2 (?) The Committee of Ministers is asked by the Council of Europe to step up cooperation programmes with BiH. Can we see what are the programmes on which, together with the Council of Europe, the Committee of Ministers, such a more intense form of cooperation will develop? We need the identification of these programmes, whether our delegation, or the Foreign Affairs Commission, or the Council of Ministers of BiH, if we adopt these conclusions. It's a very important thing. The second thing, when it comes to the report, at the point of 10th, where BiH authorities are invited to implement certain things, we can today say that some things, here, yesterday, have been done urgently to adopt a revised strategy, one important thing, it should go public today. Second, the necessary steps for the adoption of the List Act. We're close to a compromise, and I hope next week we have... one important thing. So it is very important to have this two-way communication and an active relationship to see that we are, however, doing something in this Parliament and in this country and meeting the recommendations of the Council of Europe. Some of these things we didn't... there was no compliance with the decision of the High Representative on the extension of the term of office, the same should be explained, etc. But the essence of the story, why I answered the word and I end up with this, is point 8. Reports on the functioning of democratic institutions and that's what we've been pushing for in the HDZ in 1990 since our founding, 3.5 years ago. And let me quote -- "The Parliament believes that 14 years after the signing of the Dayton Peace Agreement, new problems have emerged that compromise the stability of BiH institutions and that new approaches and new solutions should be sought." Look out, this is the BiH Report and these are the strongest assessments we cannot ignore. "This is why the Assembly believes it is high time to launch a big debate on the problems BiH is now facing and the ways in which they would... get rid of, with participation", and I draw this out, "main domestic and international participants". So these are the recommendations and assessments of the most multilateral organisations whose members and I think we no longer need to conduct discussions here whether we need the support of minimum international experts, institutions, as well-intentioned, of course, to address these challenges. I think that, after one of these reports, such possible objections really fall into the water. Thank you.
ParlaMint-BA_2010-03-24-0.u33929	Thank you. Dear Ambassador Denis Bećirović. Here you go.
ParlaMint-BA_2010-03-24-0.u33930	For the SDP MPs' club, this is an extremely important document, i.e. all these reports and resolutions, and I think this is a very important item of the agenda today. But I'm not quite sure 35 did everyone realize that it was so important. At this moment, we in the BiH Parliament, at one serious point in the agenda, have no Prime Minister, here we have one minister, so most ministers are not even present. And I think not only should there have been a prime minister and ministers, but one and another prime minister of entity governments should have called on them to hear this debate on this item of the agenda, because these recommendations depend, that is, not only on the state level but also on the lower levels. I must say, here where the work of the Council of Europe has been discussed, that is, about what the Council of Europe has been saying about BiH, is worrying about this assessment where the Monitoring report of the Council of Europe's BiH Secretariat has found and expressed concern about the deterioration of the political climate in BiH and has particularly condemned the attempt to challenge the Dayton Agreement that is leading, they said, to endanger the functioning of state institutions. It's a very serious assessment that should be taken seriously. When it comes to fighting corruption, we could also find data in these materials that, according to the report made by GRECO, BiH implemented only 25% of the recommendations from the evolutionary report. We also know on that scale where the level of corruption is measured in which BiH is and not that we should have finished 100% but maybe more if possible, and here only stands 25%. It is also noted that a number of recommendations have only been partially implemented and three recommendations have not been implemented in any way. And in general, GRECO notes that a low level of implementation of the recommendations is not surprising and in light of the fact that this parliament also reached a conclusion more than two years ago, unanimously, that the BiH Council of Ministers is forming a new strategy to fight organised crime and corruption and deliver this to the BiH Parliament here for debate, however, it has not yet come to parliamentary benches, despite the conclusion of this House. Furthermore, the Council of Europe Assembly finds that no constitutional reform has been achieved although, as we know, it is the obligation of those who formed power in 2007 because it is one of the key promises signed when the parliamentary majority was formed. It is also said that the government institutions are stalling, how entities block state institutions, etc. And in this regard, the Council of Europe Assembly specifically calls on BiH to stop the action that can be called obstructive in BiH, to work in a constructive spirit in state institutions, to speed up major reforms in BiH, to bring all, especially some lower bodies, to comply with the High Representative's decisions, to implement general reforms of the local administration, to complete the establishment of ombudsman institutions, etc. Now the question is, are we always going to go through these materials here in Parliament only pro-forms, receive some knowledge, and that other countries are going faster towards European integrations, while we are not even standing in some segments anymore, but we are going backwards. We today, if this is a serious Parliament, if it is a serious authority in this country, should we say what we are going to say about these open public calls, which are today delivered to the BiH Parliament? We need to say how we're going to react. Is it again the goal of just getting into the stenogram, of finishing this agenda point, and everyone continuing as usual? I don't think that this is the point of the debate, nor is the Foreign Affairs Commission proposing this today to enter the agenda with this objective. 36 Here is the particular concern of this part that speaks of the growth of political tensions and incendiary rhetoric. It found that BiH authorities did not speed up implementation of reforms, but, on the other hand, political tensions have increased. And it literally says, in order not to be misrepresented, I will have to quote -- "We are particularly concerned with the fact that the RS authorities are undermining the constitutional structure of BiH, as well as the Dayton Peace Agreement." This finding is extremely serious, extremely warning. With regard to this finding, not only do the local authorities have to react, that a position needs to be taken today by both this Parliament and the Council of Ministers, we should today call for this OHR to be seen. We also need to hear the opinion and the Peace Implementation Council, the US Government, Germany, France, Britain and others. This is a major assessment, and this conclusion has not been reached by any municipal parliament or any parliament in BiH, this is an official assessment that came from Europe. To undermine the constitutional structure of BiH and the whole Dayton Peace Agreement, I don't know how we can just go over it today? In this regard, we need to bring some attitude and start some activities. Here, too, the report says a number of things about bringing BiH's constitutional competences into question, and it literally states that the government and the National Assembly of RS are responsible for this. We also need to have our own attitude on this. It also says that the government of the RS and the National Assembly of RS has questioned both the authority and authority of the high representative in BiH. Shall we put that under the carpet, too? I was surprised when I was on page 16 of this document that we all got, I found that someone in Europe remembered to react to this thing. And I have to say, it's a good thing that the Council of Europe noticed and observed. And there is no doubt and very clear condemnation of the statements by the RS prime minister in which he denied crimes at the markala and the Tuzlan Gate. When you look at the conclusions, it clearly states that BiH has made little progress in meeting its commitments and engagements to the Council of Europe. It remains, especially today should be apostrophe, people warn us, so - we are particularly concerned with the fact that the recommendations we have made in BiH have not been applied. Can we allow ourselves the luxury of finding again in the new report that the recommendations made by BiH and the calls being made to BiH have not been implemented? Are we aware of who will suffer the consequences of such findings again in the BiH reports? I think that the direct consequences will be for all citizens and peoples in BiH, regardless of which entity they were staying in. Okay, since I have 20 seconds left, and there's something more to say about this report, I think, the least we can do today, is to be seen against these findings that are listed here. Part of these findings, I have made it clear here, that we accept these conclusions, i.e. five conclusions of the Foreign Affairs Commission, by adding only one part in which we task the Council of Ministers to draw up an action plan, to add within 15 days of the adoption of these conclusions. And here in conclusion three, where it is said that these findings and assessments should be passed on to lower levels, that there is also a provision -- no later than 15 days from the day of adoption of these conclusions.
ParlaMint-BA_2010-03-24-0.u33931	Thank you. Replica, honourable MP Salko Sokolović. Here you go. 37
ParlaMint-BA_2010-03-24-0.u33932	Thank you, Mr. Chairman. Oh, here it is, a replica to Mr. Bećirović. I kept my mouth shut yesterday in that assembly because of this nationalist rhetoric that was, by the way, present here. And we know well how this all came to the agenda in the BiH Parliament and at this session yesterday, what the president of my club, Mr Izetbegović, was talking about, in a way that we should deal with some other problems, not the team. And that's exactly the problem. What I want to say to Mr Bećirović is that, if he took a good look at Resolution 1701, does attitude 9 say – given the above-mentioned thinking, the Assembly is calling on all participants from the domestic political scene to engage, etc., etc. So, all political entities. There are no ruling and unruly. They have those who want the BiH state and those who do not want the BiH state. And those who want BiH at full capacity, then they should engage, not politicise. Please, so here it is described here, which is why the butmirski and the Prudish Agreement and all this was the initiative of certain political entities. If everyone had been involved in solving these problems, we would have had another situation today. So, there are people who want to make progress in BiH and those who are waiting for the 2010 elections, so that this all sort of stops, laufalo in one place, and then it is used for the next elections. And that's how NGOs work. We heard what the CCI said the other day, don't give them a visa-free regime so that this government doesn't score, etc. If that's the way we're going to think about BiH, then we can't make any progress. And when it comes to this point of the agenda, all we need to conclude is from Resolution 1701, this position number 9, and then we'll all meet in it. And then we'll all get involved and then we'll have the opportunity to make progress in BiH, not to talk about how some won't, so... but here we wouldn't get involved because we're not part of the government. BiH and this parliament require full capacity for all political parties if we want to make progress in BiH, not to use it in politicisation and as some political points for the pre-election campaign, here, they did not do it, we will do it. The end result is zero and the end result is poor progress in BiH. I would like to say that in the next period, we do not have these, in such a way, political steps, political steps, but that we are looking for a solution to how and how to respect what we are given here as a task. Thank you, Chairman.
ParlaMint-BA_2010-03-24-0.u33933	Thank you. Dear Ambassador, Adem Huskić, discussion. Here you go.
ParlaMint-BA_2010-03-24-0.u33934	Thank you. I won't be taking much time, Mr. Chairman, but I would also like to emphasise the importance of this text, this report. I think it's mostly accurate, comprehensive, and I could agree with most of it, of course, there are some things that I don't agree with, like Prud, but I don't praise him, but, look, people praise him. 38 For this reason, I accept this report, and I accept what the Commission chairman wrote, from the Parliamentary Assembly of the Council of Europe, Mr Izetbegović, and Mr Matić, as he spoke on behalf of the Commission. So I also accept the report and accept the Commission's opinion. In my opinion, what's missing is that in some way you increase the responsibility of all of us here. I think that the authorities at all levels in BiH are not taking seriously enough their obligations stemming from membership in the Council of Europe and I think that, I don't know how long people will tolerate it, but I think we all need to get serious and do a lot more work, read what people write and respect these opinions that come from outside. That is why I would particularly like to highlight the two items in this 1701 resolution of this year. Mr. Salko took a good part of the discussion with his replica, he came to order earlier, and as far as this point 9 says, here I will read it – given the above considerations, the Assembly is urging all participants from the domestic political scene to fully commit themselves to a genuine and constructive dialogue on the concrete proposals of the Constitution of BiH, i.e. amendments to the Constitution. Look, we have amendments to the Constitution specifically and, here, we know how we treated them. We had it yesterday. Furthermore, here... says - In line with the recommendations of the 2005 Venice Commission, we know how we treat these views, in order to adopt a set of reforms in time, given the general elections in 2010, which should be organised according to the revision of the Constitution. I ask an open question here, will we revise the Constitution until the 2009 elections (?..years, and people put it very seriously. That's point nine. And, therefore, point 10, point 10.7. - urgent adoptions, so the BiH authorities are expected to urgently adopt the revised strategy for implementing the Annex VII of the Dayton Agreement. The funds for implementing the revised strategy should be secured under the February 2009 Parliamentary Assembly Decision. Here, and we had a chance to adopt it yesterday, and we didn't. Thank you.
ParlaMint-BA_2010-03-24-0.u33935	Dear Member Azra Hadžiahmetović. Here you go.
ParlaMint-BA_2010-03-24-0.u33936	Thank you, Chairman. As a member of the Parliamentary Assembly of the Council of Europe, I listened to part of the discussion, part of which I missed, I know what it was about, I apologize for being absent, but here I feel a sense of obligation that, although I would not concentrate in my discussion on the materials that have been delivered to you and the Report, but rather on a few things that have been apostropheeded here in the discussion. Among other things, fellow Raguž, who mentioned the recommendations of the 2010 document, i.e. the January 2010 Assembly Debate, namely here in these two recommendations referred to by his colleague Raguž, this is a recommendation from the Assembly, the Parliamentary Assembly of the Council of Europe to the Committee of Ministers to step up co-operation programmes with BiH and to take into account the launch of a wider debate. 39 Behold, we had a meeting yesterday, unfortunately due to the absence of all members of the College, Mr Lozančić was present with a member of the Monitoring Committee of Ministers of the Council of Europe. And in this regard there was also a debate on current issues concerning constitutional issues, the census, the revised strategy and, finally, the ratification of another Resolution, that is, one document, the convention, I apologize, which is a post-accession obligation for BiH. However, what I wanted to point out briefly, although this is the 2009 Activity Report, this document, which was attached here, which was also the subject of most discussions, was from January 2010, even though it was in 2009, but this year's report will likely be accompanied by discussions, i.e. discussions by members of the BiH Delegation on this document. But it is not accidentally accompanied here, precisely because of the specific weight of the calls and obligations that arise for BiH as well from this document. I'll only mention what happened in the meantime, since January. The monitoring committee of the Parliamentary Assembly of the Council of Europe called on the members of the delegation to meet in Paris last week, the call was received by all members and alternate members, where different positions of different political options were to be heard in BiH, above all on one important issue, which is to bring our constitution into line with the European Convention on Human Rights. Given the impression they gained in BiH on different approaches and the possibility of not respecting obligations, BiH is likely to be reconsidered by an emergency procedure in April this year. So, I just want to apostrophe the importance of one job that is in front of all of us, and if, possibly, at the April session, we will be the point of the agenda again, and by emergency procedure, this parliament will probably have to give guidance to the members of the delegation. Thank you.
ParlaMint-BA_2010-03-24-0.u33937	Thank you. The second vice-president, Mr. Beriz Belkić. Here you go.
ParlaMint-BA_2010-03-24-0.u33938	And I join those who evaluate this document extremely important, however, I am fully convinced that all 42 MPs know it. It's also a good practice that we've introduced to consider this document here. So, what Mr. Nanić noted, we in the College have assessed, indeed, the importance of the participation of our delegation on various committees and whenever possible, we support such departures. However, sometimes there are problems in the participation of our people and the composition of the delegation, etc., but I think that is, in any case, a good practice. Perhaps this is also an opportunity to appeal and call our delegation, therefore, permanent and deputy members of the delegation, to try to do what Mr. Novaković was talking about. So, I don't doubt that he's trying, but to make additional efforts to reconcile attitudes, 40 of them are preparing platforms, and, in some ways, as little as possible with the dissonant tones, they achieve participation in the sessions. I believe there's still room and, why don't you say it in public, I don't think anyone will definitely be defeated or someone will be defeated, if there's a strong denial and we take out all of our dirty laundry, forgive the expression, at those public sessions, and I believe we can discuss some things here, so when the matter may be serious, why don't we talk about it here too. So all the resolutions, all the documents that we've been read here and convinced as if a man had no idea, we all get that before this report, we've all had a chance, each of this document service distributes, so we all get to know absolutely. There's really no need to convince each other. Now it's a matter of what it's doing and what a possibility it's opening up here. So, our commissions, working bodies, the College always forwards such things to the committees along with some kind of recommendation, etc. (Therefore, we can have one constant continuity when certain documents are estimated to be calling for action, and, of course, they are the largest number, where the authorities in BiH and all political entities, according to Mr Sokolović, are calling for action.) Of course, we all, I say again, know the resolutions, we know the calls, but we don't have a political consensus here. We all know that we must implement the European Court of Human Rights ruling, but I am not optimistic that we will find 28 hands here that understand the essence of the verdict in the same way. We'll morati to try, but, I say, I'm worried about radically opposite attitudes and a lack of a tendency to approach and to be willing to give up any clearly stated earlier attitude. In fact, I answered the most, what the Commission is proposing, because some of these things, I've been dealing with, say, and I've been trying directly and specifically to solve the problem of ratification of this Charter of Regional Languages, etc. One 20 days I lost by the time I got to find out where.. It's not a new story, with all those documents, remember the disabled faces, etc. We've launched certain initiatives from here. So I suggest that these conclusions of the 4th and 5th not be in the tone of uraging and calling, that these conclusions, in practice, be more rigid, so to speak. So, that the Assembly is looking for and makes responsible actors of procedure... if we need to publicly see where it's stuck. And the conclusion of both the fourth and the fifth. Not to urinate, not to appeal, but to make them responsible for failing to fulfil the remaining obligations to the Council of Europe. It's true, I'm telling you, by dealing with this point 4, this charter that we, this is what we're talking about, are very simply not studying things, we go into the process and we express our willingness not counting and not determining how much it costs. So this charter is a very expensive job, a very expensive job if you want to honestly realize it. I'm not saying this as an alibi that we shouldn't do it, but we always need to know in advance what it costs to access a certain act, or its contents. So this charter is a very expensive job. But, I believe, she, according to my information, is in the final and this Parliament, I say, for this point 4 and 5, this conclusion of the Commission, needs to be done, so to speak, by imperative and, in some ways, to prepare that we will make publicly responsible those actors who do not realize it.
ParlaMint-BA_2010-03-24-0.u33939	Thank you. 41 Replica, honourable MP Denis Bećirović. Here you go.
ParlaMint-BA_2010-03-24-0.u33940	I want to replicate my colleague Salki Sokolović who has completely missed his line. In fact, yesterday on the Foreign Affairs Commission, we discussed this issue in a whole way, among other things, in the work of the Commission, a colleague of Izetbegović, who also gave his, in my opinion, a constructive contribution to the work of the Foreign Affairs Commission yesterday and we tried to focus on key problems. If fellow Sokolović was keeping an eye on what I was talking about during his discussion, then he could notice that I made it very clear what the key problems were. But what surprises me is that one MP in the state parliament saw the central problem, at least that's how he presented it here in his discussion, at the Centres of Civil Initiatives, and he didn't see in this material much more serious, more dangerous findings that we need to deal with. Mr Sokolović, in this material, writes in addition to that, that the constitutional structure of BiH is being undermined and that the Dayton Peace Agreement is being violated. It's a big thing and it's a difficult finding of the Council of Europe. That's what we should talk about, not what an NGO suggested or not. That is why I purposely decided in my first discussion to use 100% of my discussions to indicate this time exclusively what the facts of the Council of Europe were, precisely because I assumed that perhaps one of the MPs could be found and replicated. So, Mr. Sololović, you didn't replicate to me. You've replicated the grades that stand, which have been adopted by the Council of Europe. That's the facts. I want to agree with my colleague Belkić and to believe that 42 MPs know what it says here. However, we at the SDP Club think we should not only know what it says but also act and deal with these things. In that sense, it would be good if there were many more ministers, led by the chairman of the BiH Council, that they also know and not only know that they are acting and solving what is required of us. And unfortunately, the BiH Council of Ministers does, I think, whatever they want. It does not implement more than 200 adopted conclusions and initiatives, etc., of this Parliament. These are findings and positions and opposition. Because of such work, that is, the failure of the BiH Council of Ministers to elect, it seems to me, 32 MPs, who are supported by all these four years of the party, that the opposition will not assume the same degree of responsibility as those who chose the Council of Ministers.
ParlaMint-BA_2010-03-24-0.u33941	Dear Ambassador Salko Sokolović, respond to the replica.
ParlaMint-BA_2010-03-24-0.u33942	Thank you, Mr. Chairman. 42 Behold, we adopted the revised strategy yesterday. Mr. Bećirović, obviously you didn't understand me. I understand what you're saying, and I just invited you to act and solve current problems, not politicization. Neither am I blind, so, well, I have some sense, and I know how to read this well, and we all read this well, and if I needed someone to interpret it, I would have found another interpreter. So we lost 10 minutes here to your interpretation of what we could read. And I just reminded you of Resolution and attitude 9 in which this assembly that you're now talking about, invites you as a political entity to engage in solving these problems, not to engage in political talks or through political agreements on reform called for by the SDP, you're making obstructions or you're saying these are not those solutions. Let's see what those solutions are. So, only through dialogue and compromise can we come to a solution. Through your positive position, as the SDP party in these political negotiations, we can come up with a solution for the BiH state. And you intend to politicize. That's not gonna happen. He's losing both the state and the citizens and we're safe here. I live for this moment so that the future generation no longer deals with this problem, but to politicise through whether VAT will be 18.5 - 15 or 22. And to be the task of the BiH Parliament that comes to the next generations. But if we in full capacity, like all political entities, do not go to work to solve these problems, but only to attack each other, warn, I know who is undermining and in what way, but not to pour oil on fire but to look for certain solutions in which we can reach this new constitutional solution, in which way make the Council of Ministers of BiH work more intensively than it has done so far. With this story you're talking, I'm sure we won't be able to have a final goal with that story. Thank you, Chairman.
ParlaMint-BA_2010-03-24-0.u33943	Thank you. Dear Ambassador Bakir Izetbegović, replica. Here you go.
ParlaMint-BA_2010-03-24-0.u33944	This isn't a replica, this is a few words after my colleagues' discussion. So, I think it's a mature thing to actually adopt this report and adopt the Commission's conclusions on foreign affairs. We know ourselves well here, we know our problems, we don't know them better than we do. We know ourselves best. So, fate, the historical fate of our mentality, the fate of those forces that brought us here, that for 20 years we have relations that are difficult to repair. Still, things are moving forward. And it is good that our friends, unbiased friends from Europe, underline some things, put them on paper like this. So if we don't trust each other that something is a problem and can be solved this way, let's trust them. So this is another word in that sense, another once-repeated attitude in that sense. And I think it should be accepted as such. Things will not change, regardless of the enthusiasm of young counterpart Denis Bećirović now... because the Council of Europe has highlighted 43 of the problems we know well. But here's another word, I say, unbiased friends from the EU to tell us. And we should also forward new quality to all levels of government. The new quality is if we manage to push the BiH Council of Ministers to make an action plan. So, what needs to be done and what deadlines. It will be a new quality compared to the Monitoring Team resolutions, on the report, the Monitoring Team Resolutions from the Council of Europe. Thank you.
ParlaMint-BA_2010-03-24-0.u33945	Chairman Živković.
ParlaMint-BA_2010-03-24-0.u33946	Thank you. Here, since our member of the delegation is not here, something on behalf of the SNSD to say. As long as there is no problem in BiH that one political party and colleagues here call themselves fascists, which I compare as if Jevrej are called Nazis, and while the Regulatory Agency for Communications allows it, as long as the way that party acts is that its president in these ranks wants to spit out the club president of the largest positional party from RS, and as long as the report from the High Representative to the PIC, and then afterwards to this Parliamentary Assembly of BiH are such that only others are guilty, and these are nowhere, and that this kind of opposition is tomorrow the future, then we will receive such reports. They are politically colored in that part when the OHR Office and the High Representative, as an obstacle to an agreement in this country, are gone, and these reports will be different and will not be abundant in such political pamphlets. They are friends, but I call on you to imagine how Germany and the German Parliament would act that, after discussing the functioning of democratic institutions in Germany, the German government is making an action plan accordingly. I don't think that would be the way any parliament would allow its work... The recommendation is one thing, making an action plan based on these well-intentioned recommendations is a whole other thing. I'm not talking about ugly stuff. I want to talk about good things. I want to talk about the last time we discussed the report, the only problem was, and about our delegation and her work there, that we lacked access to our colleagues from the delegation in committee work. I expected and, behold, the President of the delegation said that this problem no longer exists and that it is not listed in any report by the Council of Europe, that our delegation no longer participates in these committees and I think it is progress and should be welcomed. At the same time, in this report, if we were to leave from the end, at point 10, only at the April session, if the agenda were to be the point again of BiH, there could be already a few things that my colleagues were talking about, and I would add some more that have been completed. 10.9. - They carry out their legal obligations to complete the final decision on Brcko. Done. The mayor of Brcko said, the Brcko Assembly said, we still have to wait to get Mr. Rafi Gregorijan in writing to work at another job and leave Brcko. 44 10.8. – It urgently adopts the necessary laws for the... general census. Our commission, according to the data we're getting, is close to making compromise proposals. 10.7. – urgently adopt the Revised Strategy. It was completed yesterday in Parliament and it is not a problem for this strategy to be improved in the commission, if necessary. I do not think it should be improved and that it will certainly be adopted at the next Parliament meeting. Ensure pluralism of the media, provide equal access to the media for all political parties. Most of it was done and in Election Law we were doing something about it. I think it's a positive shift. They're conducting a general reform of the local administration. In most of the work done in RS, it remains in the Canton area to be done. Complete the reform of the BiH Ombudsman Institution. Done. And not to mention, I've come by five already. A lot has been done and these are positive aspects. Whoever wants to read this only negatively, he actually wants to show everything in this country negatively, and there's a lot of it positive, and I think we should turn around to read in the reports positive, not negative things, to take the recommendations as well-intentioned, (but not as action plans to be implemented in BiH.) Thank you.
ParlaMint-BA_2010-03-24-0.u33947	Denis Bećirović, replica
ParlaMint-BA_2010-03-24-0.u33948	Unlike counterpart Živković, who, instead of dealing with these materials of the Council of Europe, used half of his discussion to deal with the Social Democratic Party, would suffice for me to take a very short look at it. Comrade Živković, if you read this document, you may note that there are no sentences about the SDP president or the SDP. On the other hand, on several pages here are described the actions of the prime minister and the president of your party. It'd be good if we talked about it. However, it is difficult to talk about it because senior counterpart Izetbegović said earlier that it would be good to focus on how to implement this. However, my colleague Izetbegović did not even finish the story, and counterpart Živković came out right after him and said this was a pamphlet, a "political pamphlet" quoted me as saying. Now, I ask the question, because for me personally this is a first-class political scandal, that the president of the country's parliament, which is a member of the Council of Europe, calls adopted documents the Council of Europe's political pamphlets. A fellow Izetbegović, how do you think you can make any action plan, and, behold, a good part of the debate has agreed that it is serious material, when already in advance a man says this is a political pamphlet. So do you think someone's gonna make an action plan on a political pamphlet? 45 So we already have a problem and I've been trying essentially to point out the problem all along. Unfortunately, some try to open it up even more and play it, so we have no dilemmas or delusions about what kind of situation we are in.
ParlaMint-BA_2010-03-24-0.u33949	Replication response, Živković.
ParlaMint-BA_2010-03-24-0.u33950	Thank you. I'm also surprised why there's no president of your SDP party in this report, and I've told you both the reason and listed the culprit for which there is no. It's the OHR, the media and those who support you, as an opposition, to come to power tomorrow. That's why there's no reason. We didn't talk about whether I was right because that's how you acted here. Is it okay for the SDP to label everyone else as fascists, and they're anti-fascists, is the way of discussion in this parliament to make colleagues spit from the scene? I'm talking about it here and I'm saying that it's supported by the international community, it makes you more beautiful and better than you are by the Bosnian Herzegovic public. This is a resolution adopted by representatives of political parties who, like us, have delegated to... It can be run like a political pamphlet.
ParlaMint-BA_2010-03-24-0.u33951	Selim Bešlagić, replica.
ParlaMint-BA_2010-03-24-0.u33952	Well, I once said, my nana would say: when someone's hollowing under the ears, he's holding his ears. So if someone says something and this one gets hit, that's his problem. I don't want to. And let me tell you, Mr. Živković, and everyone who wants to impute this to the SDP. You can do anything but accuse the SDP of failing to work this government, and the work of the BiH Parliament, you can't. There are five of us, with others who are considered opposition... a little bit to stop handlifting for those who have chosen the government, the Council of Ministers who do so. And I don't want to say anything else. The analysis is, I'd say what was given, like, we're trying to factor it out and nothing else. And you, if you think you're hit, that's your business. That's why I say, that folk proverb is good.
ParlaMint-BA_2010-03-24-0.u33953	The second vice-president, Mr. Beriz Belkić.
ParlaMint-BA_2010-03-24-0.u33954	I have Nana Selima, too. So I wouldn't agree with you if you were powerless. So it is true that there are only five of you, but from the session to the session you give the tone of the session, you create the agenda and 46 of you, practically, determine how long it will take. So you're not exactly helpless. You're not very helpless, you don't need to be underestimated, you're doing very well.
ParlaMint-BA_2010-03-24-0.u33955	Dear Ambassador Selim Bešlagić, second replica. Here you go.
ParlaMint-BA_2010-03-24-0.u33956	Now, that saying would go again. So you create the agenda and you raise and adopt, I'd say, a voice. That's another thing. It's another thing that you don't know maybe run a session. That's another problem. You just let five people fuck with you. So if that's the case, admit it and we're done. There, nothing else, thank you. [[Common discussion]]
ParlaMint-BA_2010-03-24-0.u33957	Here, I'll hear, I recently heard a new proverb. They say that when animals speak in a human voice, it's called a bass, and when animals, and when people speak in an animal's voice, it's Bosnia.
ParlaMint-BA_2010-03-24-0.u33958	Martin Raguž, discussion.
ParlaMint-BA_2010-03-24-0.u33959	Well, I reported under the firm's debate not to turn out to be somebody, but personally, as an agent, after this kind of debate, I can't stand to see this point of the agenda end this way. If others can, no problem. First, the Honorable Chairman, Mr. Živković. So BiH has experienced many benefits from the Council of Europe and all its parts, both entities and peoples and citizens. And she experienced it because she became a member, fulfilling her post-op obligations and respecting her resolutions and decisions to the extent that she could, some of us, and it would not be really appropriate for this house to send a message to the Council of Europe to adopt with its highest acts documents that have the character of the pamphlet. I'm doing it here, as a man, in this council, I just can't. The second thing is whether we will and in what way, which political party will accept these recommendations. That's another thing. And you have one right to experience, we have another... and it remains, but I wouldn't ignore these recommendations and the minimum we can understand from these recommendations is that we need to have some kind of agenda to work on. If we're not going to ask the Council, let's do it for ourselves. There.
ParlaMint-BA_2010-03-24-0.u33960	Thank you. 47 Dear Messenger Slavko Jovičić, discussion.
ParlaMint-BA_2010-03-24-0.u33961	No microphone turned on
ParlaMint-BA_2010-03-24-0.u33962	You don't have the right to do business. Here you go, business intervention.
ParlaMint-BA_2010-03-24-0.u33963	On behalf of the SDP MPs' club, I demand that we be delivered a stenogram of this statement by Mr. Živković. It seems to us that in this House, the BiH state whose MPs we are is offended in a brutal way. We want to check the stenogram exactly one more time and expect the College to take a stand, as well as one of the previous sessions, and here it is not an offended individual, but an entire state. A break, so we're looking.
ParlaMint-BA_2010-03-24-0.u33964	You're looking for a break from how many minutes?
ParlaMint-BA_2010-03-24-0.u33965	30 minutes.
ParlaMint-BA_2010-03-24-0.u33966	A half-hour break from the SDP. [[PAUZA]] Comrades and fellow MPs, continue the session. We don't have a quorum yet, we'll wait for more, come on, please. The SDP club asked for a break. In front of the club, is there anyone to explain the break? Here you are, Mr. Honorable Ambassador Denis Bećirović, please.
ParlaMint-BA_2010-03-24-0.u33968	We asked for a break less than 30 minutes ago to get a stenogram. At this point, we still haven't got us from the Stenogram Club, nor have the other MPs got a stenogram. 15 days ago in the same situation we had a stenogram on the table. And in order to further show ourselves, can we get a stenogram in accordance with the Rules of Procedure and our practice or can't, we need to know. If we have to, we'll wait another 10 minutes to get that stenogram, but let's be clear. 48
ParlaMint-BA_2010-03-24-0.u33969	The stenogram can be divided, I got it somewhere.
ParlaMint-BA_2010-03-24-0.u33970	We'll wait. Give us five minutes to read.
ParlaMint-BA_2010-03-24-0.u33971	...unauthorized part of the stenogram, go ahead. Do we have a chance to hear the explanation?
ParlaMint-BA_2010-03-24-0.u33972	Here, let me read it.
ParlaMint-BA_2010-03-24-0.u33973	Here you go.
ParlaMint-BA_2010-03-24-0.u33974	What we just got as part of the stenogram literally I'm going to read, I don't know if it's exactly taken off, I guess, the stenogram. I quote what the chairman said – they say when animals speak in a human voice it's called a bass, and when people speak in an animal voice it's Bosnia. Those are the words of our chairman.
ParlaMint-BA_2010-03-24-0.u33975	I think you should read it all.
ParlaMint-BA_2010-03-24-0.u33976	Oh, no, this was delivered to us...
ParlaMint-BA_2010-03-24-0.u33977	So because it's said before, there's, you read everything or are you gonna let me read everything?
ParlaMint-BA_2010-03-24-0.u33978	And here, let's make our point. 49
ParlaMint-BA_2010-03-24-0.u33979	Come on, say your point.
ParlaMint-BA_2010-03-24-0.u33980	So there is no dilemma that this is a serious insult to the BiH state and that we expect the College to react as they did at the last session.
ParlaMint-BA_2010-03-24-0.u33981	Thank you. Business intervention, honourable MP Drago Kalabić. Here you go.
ParlaMint-BA_2010-03-24-0.u33982	Mr. Chairman, who it's from, and it's too much. In accordance with our Rules of Procedure, I only think that we can put on that self-remembrance and move on as the old one. Of the people led by Mr. Spitter, Mr. Spitter is and unworthy to come here, next to you he said he'd spit out the MP and you didn't find it appropriate... and now you're holding someone a moral lecture who should be... It's no problem, we're gonna warn ourselves and we're gonna keep going through this... You should've made Mr. Spitter apologize to him first, so we'll take it in a row. _________(?) [[no microphone turned on]] You didn't force him, you didn't force him. And now you're coming to some thing the whole state is talking about. You can hear this at every step of the way in BiH. Do any of you have any of that in mind? In every newspaper, you can read this, that this country is full of everything and everything. What do we need to talk about about us nice, huh? And now you've found yourself, I don't know how you recognized yourself here? And you're just saying... _________(?) [[no microphone turned on]]
ParlaMint-BA_2010-03-24-0.u33985	The second vice-president, Mr. Beriz Belkić, come in.
ParlaMint-BA_2010-03-24-0.u33986	A little, a little, then a college. So, I, as a member of the College, speak for myself, have already become a little uncomfortable and burdensome that for the serious, responsible, elected people here at all times, I'm afraid not to become a practice, determine what I think about this behavior. Here's what I think of this as Zlatkov. But that's not how I'm gonna work anymore. So, and the Codex, it's a document that this parliament should have, the Rules of Procedure, too, has not solved, this has not been resolved. And, therefore, I don't want every session any of you to call me, or your colleagues, that I'm setting myself up about it. I can identify myself as a man for myself and say that 51 is not acceptable to me. And that I mind my country talking like this. But it's not a procedure, it's not a definitive decision, it's not something that produces sanctions. So, I can only invite us all, as serious and responsible and adult people, to refrain, to take care of what anyone says. As for the Party for BiH, we continue to call on all those who think BiH institutions are a place for political reckoning, to remove it from the institutions. Of course, attitudes differ, etc. But this kind of dialogue, there's press conferences, there's round tables, there's all kinds of TV shows, so go ahead.
ParlaMint-BA_2010-03-24-0.u33987	No microphone turned on
ParlaMint-BA_2010-03-24-0.u33988	Thank you. There's no business in the name of the club. There's business on behalf of his own.
ParlaMint-BA_2010-03-24-0.u33989	No microphone turned on
ParlaMint-BA_2010-03-24-0.u33990	So you asked for a break, you got an answer on your break, now you can look for a business intervention on your behalf. Here you go.
ParlaMint-BA_2010-03-24-0.u33991	Thank you. I'm going to make it very clear that this isn't, therefore, a matter of any political reckonings, at the moment it's about principles. In this country, they have two sacred names, one called Bosnia, and the other called Herzegovina. The people sitting here are BiH's state deputies. No Niko has the right to insult the name of Bosnia or the name of Herzegovina. We've now had a case when it's said and there's an apparent insult to this country. My question and the question of colleagues from the SDP Club was only the following – How did you react business in the College last time and have a consensus? We're just inviting you to have all three consensuals again and condemn it.
ParlaMint-BA_2010-03-24-0.u33992	No microphone turned on
ParlaMint-BA_2010-03-24-0.u33993	And, Mr. Belkić, it's no way to communicate like this... 52
ParlaMint-BA_2010-03-24-0.u33994	Please finish your discussion and tell us what your proposal is.
ParlaMint-BA_2010-03-24-0.u33995	So, I just want to say, don't make a consensus in the College when one has to give someone a warning, and now that they're not an individual at risk, the name of this state that's a sacred name is at risk, I expect you have a consensus now.
ParlaMint-BA_2010-03-24-0.u33996	Mr. Bećirović, I, as a resident of this BiH and Bosnia, regret that some have recognised themselves. And according to a consensus in the College that we already had before you said all this, I will give myself a reminder about this agenda point and this session. And I think it's unnecessary that we continue to lead the line around it. But we will continue because the debate on the agenda is not closed. Dear Ambassador Husein Nanić, come in.
ParlaMint-BA_2010-03-24-0.u33997	I thank you, Chairman. I think that you would make it easier for all of us, after this break, as chairman of this House and based on what you said, to say that what you just said, that you went out for a rumor and said it. I think that your words that you used as the chairman of the House of Representatives and called the citizens of BiH... required, above all, home education and culture that you mean to have them in such a high capacity as you act. I belong to that group of MPs who this issue and this way of using the language that you've made... it's not a question of the relationship between the SDP and I am absolutely in agreement with the reaction that the SDP has brought here. And this is not a question of one party's relationship to another party. And this is not a question of party, this is really a question of culture and general education. And I would also not accept or support it now, and if it were to be expressed what Mr. Kalabić here said was possible, I did not hear it, according to one of the people in BiH. Things have already begun to happen behind the speaker by the president of political parties, so, here, now and from the chairman of this house, to use words and names that are not appropriate and that really deserve a reaction. And in that sense, the least that would relax is an apology for what was said. Because at first I realized that you did one lapus and that, simply, it happened and that it might fix the thing that you said it was in one effect, in one reaction. However, you did not consider it necessary. In that sense, I appreciate your saying that you're willing to give yourself a reminder on your own and that maybe that way we can get out of this situation.
ParlaMint-BA_2010-03-24-0.u33998	Thank you. 53 I did so before, several times I apologized, remember the presidents of the SDP Club... and several MPs here. I haven't heard from you and many others that you've stood up and said that the President of Parliament is not a fascist when he asked the president of the SNSD Club to set yourself up according to what the SDP Deputy Club said publicly on the show. I'd like to, except for the fact that you're now giving a lecture, that you said publicly then, loudly and clearly, and that they're not your fellow fascists. Here you need to find order and measure between what they say and what they say to each other. I gave a ton, apologized, and got all the uglier names in return. I have not heard from my fellow MPs that they have made a clear and loud determination. Dear Ambassador Drago Kalabić, come in.
ParlaMint-BA_2010-03-24-0.u33999	I thought it was over, but by old custom, obviously it's not, obviously one truth is being promoted, one story that is well-recognizable. I expected counterpart Nanić to say it is an insult for his country to be chaired by fascists by this Parliament. No, it doesn't matter, since he's a Srbin, he can be a fascist. But the fact that he's chairing this Parliament, that, well, we'll keep it quiet, we'll rip it out, here, out of context. Which is the chairman of the BiH Chetnik Parliament, is it logical that the BiH Parliament is run by a Chetnik and, not that, it has no problem. If someone else were, probably, in his place, there'd be anything here and you see what we got into, a trap of undisciplinedness that I said. You've all tolerated behavior here, I haven't heard a single word of your reaction, you've even said you wouldn't interfere when the president of a party, the head of the club, stood up in this House to spit out a fellow MP. I didn't hear your reaction. No, it's sacred, it's sacred to spit in this House. Is that sacred? It doesn't matter, and what do you think RS isn't sacred to us? That you can call it fascist and genocide, and that's not an insult to us. And then it's expected that some other sanctity, I don't know either, (in every respect) that someone's sacred, absolutely respectable. But among the saints, it's their turn to respect each other and that's how it works. You didn't, you didn't, you tolerated this situation, it makes it especially responsible for SDA and SBiH clubs, they tolerated this kind of insult to us all the time, to get us into this situation. I haven't heard one of your human reactions. I apologize only to Mr. Belkić, but as a member of the Kolegijum, and today I did not ask him to deal with this, but I told him Kolegijum do something to this situation. This is a new situation. I said, if we're going to mention ourselves and continue like this, is that the way out? If you don't understand, and you tolerate what the SDP's been doing for months, thinking it won't... when the fire is lit, it gets further to everyone. And then we have this situation. It was not correct because if Mr. Nanić had done this (when this was on other examples), I would say today, I would have felt silent. But suddenly it's a problem now. But so far there has been no single problem, no offense, no humiliation. It's not okay. In the enlarged college, we had an atmosphere, we talked about how we'd work it out, there's a whole different story here. We're lying, we're lying, so we're lying, we're having an extended college, and I'm going to say to the Kolegijum, obviously, there's no way this Parliament is being held in civil relations, and that's a fact. The Rules of Procedure and Procedure are such that people can abuse, that they can also be unprincipled, that they can be liars, that they can do whatever they want and then, here, I don't see the way out of this situation, if we don't become people. If we don't become people, if we keep going with politicization and behave in this way, everyone will remain in their positions. 54 Call was the SNSD Club to open the dialogue, the call was the SNSD Club to sit down...
ParlaMint-BA_2010-03-24-0.u34000	Replica, time.
ParlaMint-BA_2010-03-24-0.u34001	...to sit down, and end it, to see if we can make a deal, you have the opposite behavior in this hall where we sit there. That's what the public needs to know, it's two-faced and it's hypocrisy. There's a story here, there's a whole other story, we're not SNSD, we're telling the same story there, we're talking here, and that's the whole problem.
ParlaMint-BA_2010-03-24-0.u34002	We have a set of replicas, Honorable Ambassador Momčilo Novaković. Here you go.
ParlaMint-BA_2010-03-24-0.u34003	Well, before I use the time for a replica, I'm looking for a half-hour break.
ParlaMint-BA_2010-03-24-0.u34004	On a club proposal, a half-hour break. [[PAUZA]]
ParlaMint-BA_2010-03-24-0.u34005	Ladies and gentlemen of the Parliament, honored guests, please take your seats to continue our work. Before we go any further, I'll take this opportunity to make some preliminary remarks. First, I'm going to make it a little easier on the subject. So, I was just with my distinguished colleague Mehmedović and dear colleague Ljubičić of the House of Nations at one, I would say, a pleasant lunch with the chairman of the OSCE Parliamentary Assembly, who was headed by the chairman of the Parliamentary Assembly these days to visit BiH. We have informed each other about the situation in BiH, and what I want to share with you is the strong support of the OSCE Parliamentary Assembly on the European road to BiH, the acceleration of this process, the liberalisation of the visa regime and the acquisition of MAP at the next meeting of the North Atlantic Council in Tallinn. Here, it's in the shortest bit of information that I think is both positive and affirmative. Secondly, I was informed by counterparts Belkić and Živković that a session was interrupted in the meantime and that a session of the Extended College was held. I was also informed that Mr. Živković, as he personally confirmed to me, gave himself a warning because of the move that 55 has, you know what the statement was. And I've also been informed that the Extended College is in agreement, that it's jointly decided to invite you all to give up further replicas on issues that have caused replicas. Now, I have to say, I don't know what that was, so we can move on to the established agenda. It's for preliminary information. There, there, there, there, there's only one, we don't even have a debate. So I can conclude that the final debate is on the third item of the agenda. And I thank you all for your understanding. And we're going to the fourth item of the agenda, Ad. 4. Report on activities on the project "Autoput on Corridor Vc" and plan of the next activities – material of the Ministry of Communications and Transport of BiH, issue: 01,02,01/5-29-371/10 of 24.2.2010 The BiH Ministry of Transport and Communications delivered these materials in 24.2.2010. The Committee for Transport and Communications delivered its opinion on 9.3. and proposed to the House to adopt the Report on activities on the project The Highway to Corridor Vc and the Plan of Next Activities. I'm opening a debate. I have seen that in the previous part of the minister was here, I hope someone will inform him, I suppose he has a desire to address this issue of the House, and, behold, in the meantime, distinguished representative Mehmed Suljkanović.
ParlaMint-BA_2010-03-24-0.u34007	Dear Chairman, esteemed colleagues and colleagues. I'm going to go back a few years in this brief address of mine. I will Vratić to 2004, when this Parliament had an obligation to start preparations for the construction of Corridor Vc, it was Parliament's decision to inform Parliament every three months. In fact, it was a time when this job, then called a standing job, was thought to be a state project. A time in which the BiH Road Directorate was thought to be formed, unfortunately, none of it happened. We are here in 2010 and occasionally we receive reports that we regularly discuss on the Commission for Transport and Communications. Meanwhile, only one department in the ministry dealing with these project activities, i.e. project operations at Corridor Vc, remained from the state project. In fact, the idea that it would be a significant state project remains just, here's one small co-ordination role and what made me come forward, it's that we wouldn't bring this down to the mere form that we're going to be doing on the Commission for Transport and Communications and, here at the BiH Parliament, considering this information, I'm more inclined to try, to see 56 of what we, as Parliament, can do to simply speed up these activities, that the misunderstandings, which there is a lot, try to overcome. And let's see how the construction of Corridor Vc, which is about to begin, employs domestic companies. And, I think, in my humble opinion, that could be our contribution. Let's see if it's an idea that came from this particular department, it's sharing into smaller lotes, that is, providing opportunities for our companies to get jobs, not to be foreign firms, but actually, our companies to be just subcontractors and to be a situation where we're just going to lose. So I am instead of these formal review reports... to try to see where we, as Parliament, can make some disagreements overcome, to get started with this construction as soon as possible, because one thing is clear, that starting work on Corridor Vc can be the beginning of getting out of the crisis, but really seeing where and what, as the BiH Parliament, we can do, I say, that domestic companies are working on Corridor Vc, and that we simply avoid this mere formalism in receiving information that comes from this department. Thank you.
ParlaMint-BA_2010-03-24-0.u34008	Thank you. The following has been reported by a respected representative, Husein Nanić.
ParlaMint-BA_2010-03-24-0.u34009	I thank you, Chairman. We have received quality information from the BiH Council of Ministers, made up of the Ministry and have indeed presented all the activities, problems and plans so far, the conclusion with the plan of activities in the coming period, with the conclusions of the BiH Council of Ministers to be supported. I would just like to ask three questions, given the presence here of the minister and the gentleman who is an expert and who runs these projects, these are issues that are from this information, and since it is from December of last year, today is the end of March, to see what is the current state, meaning, with the status of these two interstate agreements with the Republic of Croatia regarding building a bridge on the Sava and related to the southern border section. The second question is, this information shows that, essentially, the narrow throat of the government of the Federation of BiH's activities or developments in the Federation of BiH, this point 2 and, respectively, 3. – activities to implement the project in the Federation of BiH, are these problems present in the Federation of BiH removed? And the third question, so I'd like to get a concrete and direct answer this year, on these lotes, on these shares, what is it like, (that the construction itself will start) on the section of the highway? Thank you. 57
ParlaMint-BA_2010-03-24-0.u34010	Thank you. The following is the registered representative, Mirko Okolić.
ParlaMint-BA_2010-03-24-0.u34011	Mr. Chairman. I'd like to see if Mr. Secretary speaks. If he spoke now, I would wait with my discussion, because we might get some answers to what I was going to discuss. Well, I'm letting go, thank you.
ParlaMint-BA_2010-03-24-0.u34012	Thank you. I'll dati you a chance if you want later. Dear Representative Slavko Matić.
ParlaMint-BA_2010-03-24-0.u34013	Thank you very much, Mr. President. Here, as a member of this committee who delivered Opinions on this report, I would also like to say that I am also on the Committee, and also here in the context of this debate and possibly a statement, supported and that I will support the report that has been delivered to us and I think it would be a good practice for it to continue, given the very great importance of Corridor Vc for the whole of BiH, that we have a practice of some regular reporting perhaps every 6 months on the activities of building this corridor. I want to say something that doesn't cheer me at all as a man, and I believe all of you, one bit absurd situation that for the part that should work on Corridor Vc, which passes through RS, from Modrica to Doboj, according to all the knowledge, and even this report, the entire documentation, as a prerequisite for construction, is practically already over, but this is obviously not the current building priority and there is no financial structure for that stock. On the other hand, there has been money in the Federation of BiH for a long time, over a billion marks available, various credit funds for 4 or 5 shares in the north, south and central part of the Federation of BiH, but we do not have finished the documentation and is still uncertain, given the problems at federal level, most of all the problems arised in determining the final route in the southern part and the misunderstandings created about it. So for that part we have money, and we can't start working, for some part we have project documentation, and we don't have money. On the other hand, it's not an encouraging situation. I don't know, it might be unnecessary for us to conclude and call on the federal level to get rid of it as soon as possible. They are also, perhaps more aware than ourselves that it is up to them and that it should be removed as soon as possible, in order to get the money, and it is about the credit funds on which, obviously, if we don't start using them as soon as possible, we will start paying certain financial penalties, in terms of the penalty, the tight interest or whatever, to put it into service for that reason as soon as possible. And much more for the reasons of 58 of the current recession and crisis, and we all know that bigger jobs on this corridor would contribute to a faster exit from the current difficult economic situation in BiH. Thank you.
ParlaMint-BA_2010-03-24-0.u34014	Thank you. The next is a respected representative, Šefik Džaferović.
ParlaMint-BA_2010-03-24-0.u34015	Just for a minute, Mr. Chairman. The minister will speak, I suppose, now, like Mr. Okolić, I just want to ask the minister to look at the essence of the Corridor itself in addition to what's in this information, so these 130 miles, right? It's actually a road from, it's all about, but 200 km of highway is from Doboj to Zenica and from Tarchin to Mostar. It's actually the main thing. We don't have anything to do with this here. I want to hear a little bit on the subject. I mean, without it... and what Matić was talking about, how it's possible that we have money for something we're not ready to do, and we have 200 kilometers here, we don't mention anything and we don't say anything about it. And I especially want to draw attention, later on I will talk about it, regarding the merger point towards the Zavidović. Remember well this time, unlike the 1970s, when the Zavidovics remained isolated, passing the railroad, passing the road, and then passing the road past, this time it won't be possible to do so. It's morati have to make a quality connection and hook up to the federal pans. Please tell me something about it. That's it.
ParlaMint-BA_2010-03-24-0.u34016	Thank you. The next is distinguished representative Bakir Izetbegović.
ParlaMint-BA_2010-03-24-0.u34017	I thank you for the quality report on the state of preparation. We finally have one good situation, one, so to speak, the winning situation on this project, I think almost a billion marks that we have secured loans. I'm glad we fulfilled our obligation, I mean some 0.1 km from a liter of fuel that then released these loans, because it was a condition that we had these loans. I am glad, too, that the Federation of BiH finally seems to have resolved the issue of problems in Herzegovina, the dual positions of Pocidec and other places. So I'm asking the minister to tell us, if he knows anything more about it, is that correct? I'm glad the RS problems are resolved as well. There we had some crashes, some collages with some power plants, mini power plants, and in general, and projects and planning documentation and what was called, the exemption of land in RS is in a very good position. I'm sorry our companies didn't get a job on this. And what counterpart Slavko Matić says, should run as much as possible, it will get us out of recession. Unfortunately, Slavko, we are not 59 competitors here, which is where the kamak take construction firms from other, mostly neighbouring countries. And as far as we're concerned, it looks like it's going to go on like this, ours are about 10-15 percent more expensive than foreign companies. And maybe you don't need to take an excessive bite, because we have to take as much as possible at one point in time to absorb that job. So my question for the minister is – is the matter in the Federation of BiH with positions in Herzegovina really solved? And secondly, how much will this entire project cost, according to his assessment? Is that 2.5 billion euros, is that 3 billion euros, orientative?
ParlaMint-BA_2010-03-24-0.u34018	Thank you. The next is Honorable Representative Ekrem Ajanović.
ParlaMint-BA_2010-03-24-0.u34019	Mr. President, colleagues and colleagues. I wish the minister had spoken before, but here it is. The corridor of our Vc, it is of paramount importance, the breadth of the housewives for BiH and certainly around it we turn for a long time and turn for unnecessary reasons. I even think that, in the end, certain solutions that have been made are satisfactory, because the paths are divided by weight and the funding is by the weight of these routes. Unfortunately, we paid from Tešnja because Tešanj for more than 50 years has kept the route from Karush, meaning from Doboj over the Tešnja municipality to Zepč, for just one reason that Zenica has not preserved its route that was once long ago plotted rather than sold out into a certain indemnity of certain companies, which would now collect the route as much as you want and now the ideologists or these idea projects have been solved in order to cheapen that route, coupled from Zenica to Zepč to Zepč to build together with the path from Zepč to Doboj, i.e. through Tešno. As it is, but the saddest thing is that they said it would be the last share to be built. So whoever saved the track and did everything to get Corridor Vc, that is, the highway because it's not talking about this highway now, it's been talking for 20 years during communism. They were idea projects, there were everything else, even the routes indicated. So whoever was guarding the route, he'll pay the price. But about that, let it be built in Bosnia, anywhere. This route that he mentioned through RS, it is the easiest part of the route because it goes mostly the straight way and it is not worrying for me that it will not be built, will be built safely without problems and will be people who are interested and investors, etc. Like I don't think there's gonna be any path that won't be done, no matter how expensive she is. However, what Izetbegović said is good that some things have been unblocked. But I have to say, when I looked at the idea of a solution to go through Blagaj, whether he was an expert or an expert, he's a fool to me who does so. If you have any experience, if you've been around the world, and you've gone safely, you'll see that all the countries that save land where production is possible and bypass such path solutions. They're always going uphill or uphill, and if anyone wants to deal with it, I'm by profession not that, but, look, I went as a former minister to Monaco, so I was wondering where they spent their time. All technical solutions are possible, 60 means, only political will, now that we have the funds secured. And I think if that path can't come to a final solution, and I think it can, then it's a disgrace to us all. And secondly, I would never agree, I would never support that the path goes and destroys certain land, especially agricultural land, especially where people can live well on agriculture, which is in Herzegovina, it is, of course, known. I don't want to talk about historical monuments, there's already been a lot of speeches, and this way. So I would agree with Bakir Izetbegović that it would be good for the minister to give us his opinion on how this problem was solved which, in my opinion, should not have been, because anyone who thinks clearly would have very simply solved the problem, and there should not have been a policy involved, but should be involved in economics, calculation, budget and all that is needed. (Once again, I express my dissatisfaction with the various circumstances of this last route left to be built, shared, between Zenica and Zepč and Zepč and Tepč). Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-BA_2010-03-24-0.u34020	Thank you. The next is Honorable Representative Adem Huskić.
ParlaMint-BA_2010-03-24-0.u34021	Thank you. Well, here, after Mr. Chairman has given us a positive atmosphere from this meeting with the OSCE, I think we can continue in this one positive atmosphere and relax a little bit. I want to say on this occasion that I have the impression, and I think you all agree with me, that Minister Vidović has really put in a positive atmosphere in the past few months. I see he's taken a lot of action, and, look, I'm taking this opportunity to publicly congratulate him. It is that there are these cantonal relations of ours, even so, but everything that's positive needs to be affirmed. So, I would ask the minister because, as I see it, he's going to submit one statement about, that with a few sentences he's just saying something that's not directly related to this point, but it is indirect, and I'm very interested because I come from central Bosnia, so I'm curious about the situation with the fast road Lasva – Donji Vakuf. Thank you.
ParlaMint-BA_2010-03-24-0.u34022	Thank you. The next is the distinguished representative Azra Alajbegović.
ParlaMint-BA_2010-03-24-0.u34023	Dear Mr. Chairman, colleagues and colleagues, ladies and gentlemen. 61 I would, of course, join these congratulations on these agenda points and topics and activities that Minister Vidović had in the past few months regarding the construction of Corridor Vc. With full right, as someone 15 years old, in a way, driving Sarajevo – Kakanj, I can say that actually building this vein of the house, first of all, the quality of life, will significantly increase the quality of life of BiH citizens in full capacity. We all drive these roads and we know what it looks like when you have a highway and you don't have a highway, when you have a regional road good and you don't have a regional road. What I would like to say is that right now, this section of Sarajevo – Kakanj, which is so close to me in terms of certain relations and ties with Kaknja, is very welcome, however, I am not sure that citizens of Kaknja are newly built along the road, regardless of what it is finished, actually got the quality of life. Why? Because I think the stock, no matter what I would like to express my satisfaction, is, in some way further, as I would say, multiplicating the environmental problems of the citizens of Kaknja and I hope that the rest of this Corridor Vc project will not do to the citizens of other cities where the Vc passes what it has done to the citizens of Kaknja. What I'd like to ask is, in this report, I haven't actually seen, if I missed an apology, what about the regional route of Kakanj – Drivusa, and what will be the alternative direction of Kakanj – Drivusa? I only hope, and I would ask the minister to answer me that part of the trip was not planned in a way that the citizens of Donji Kaknja built by their own self-help 20 years ago, and the Kakanj Municipality has expanded over the last 10 years, this small village road from 3 m to 6 m, because I don't think it would be okay according to the amount of invested these residents now and this regional road Kakanj – Drivusha spend along that route. And what I would also like to say is that I hope that the compensation for the land to be taken will be quality, sufficient and adequate for the people to be taken, especially this country in the field that Professor Ajanović spoke of, given that the idea projects are complete, that we cannot now insist on some changes. Because I have to say that these days I've been able to talk to people, also from Kakanj Municipality, from that we call the local community Donji Kakanj, who are very unhappy with the offered price for the square of land to be taken from them, because it was a field that fed them for centuries, a lot of people from those parts, and it's gotten, as they said to me, a shamefully low price for a square meter. I think that people should be compensated in an adequate way and that, in some ways, this possibility of feeding their own family from the land they are taken, they can, I can't say, be transferred to any other place, but in any case, to be adequately compensated.
ParlaMint-BA_2010-03-24-0.u34024	Thank you. Dear Representative Mirko Okolić, however, chose to say something now. 62
ParlaMint-BA_2010-03-24-0.u34025	I think it's more rational, I see everyone's asking a question, so I'm going to have to maybe not go out twice, I've seen around that way. I would not, first of all, say something that is not usual for the opposition to praise something that comes from the minister and the government who is the position. But this time I really must commend the efforts of the Ministry of Transport and Communications and this report which is for these opportunities, and this is how these materials that come into our procedure, really something that can be managed and that can be praised. Now, let me get to the point. I wouldn't be running any debate and policy here that wouldn't affect and has nothing to do with the technique and what it takes for Corridor Vc, from the idea of a project solution to the very end of it. And I wouldn't even talk about expropriation, etc., it's going to be some other service, etc. However, I am interested in the following, and then I will ask the minister to answer me, although I could see it in the information, reading it, certain answers, but I want to hear from the first man of the Ministry, because it will be more credible to me, which is – What else is needed from all this, that is, what are the problems that this section of the road that Mr Matić spoke about, from Svilaj or Odžak, how do you want, to Doboj or Doboj of the South, and again and again, as you wish, not to be taken within some quicker time in construction? So let's hear what the problem is, is it objective or subjective? Furthermore, I would like to get information from Mr. Minister, if he is available, and I believe that they have such data as the Ministry, which is – How many kilometers of highway built, with an average vehicle frequency, that they finance one kilometer of new highway in a year? If you understand me, Mr. Minister, it is, so you can see that the waist is working, that I could pull some parallels out of it, and yet I'm saying all of that in relation to our efforts, like states, to get credit, to get conditions, etc. I am also interested in something from what our neighbouring country of Croatia has done that has worked highways in two ways. One is a credit line, and the other is from domestic resources through self-financing by built shares or highway routes, and thus closes the construction of the highway. I don't want to talk, although I'd like that information, but it's not in the jurisdiction and it's not the agenda because this is about international Corridor Vc, there's probably no point in asking questions about it right now. But here, perhaps by the way, although it is the state ministry and it can be referred to that question – How do they think about fast roads in some further procedure as connections to this highway? And before I get an answer, I'm also going to say my vision, which is that fast roads, as Europe's global trend, need me, and I think my proposal, is to get out of thought and go to a lesser extent with the construction of the highway, isn't there a big difference in cost price, how big a difference in safety and fast traffic. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-BA_2010-03-24-0.u34026	Thank you. The next is Honourable representative Selim Bešlagić. 63
ParlaMint-BA_2010-03-24-0.u34027	So I have to say that as a member of the Transport and Communications Commission, I participated in this debate and that one question was which Nanić said – what are we able to offer our construction operation? And that's where we got the interpretation, that it's possible to do it in a way that a particular project breaks down into projects that our operatives can do. And that's what they'll do, and I hope those who participate in it, so federal... and RS will find a modus there. But I'd just like to make a little joke, say Corridor Vc is the breadth of the BiH housewives. And I have to say, there are no damars, no nerves. Secondly, as Mrs Azra asked, she says – ecology, Kakanj. I'd rather have pollution than highways than pollution than thermal power plant. But no, I'm saying that I would love to, but it's not the essence of my exposure to this, but to say thank you, Mr. Minister, for doing more in five months than you did in those times that you were an MP in the House of the Peoples of the PSBiH. I say one thing here, I apologize, when the profession comes to a professional place then business goes far, far faster. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-BA_2010-03-24-0.u34028	Thank you. I wasn't when my colleague Živković warned himself, and now I'm going to give myself a word. Well, thanks to ourselves, we'll relax the atmosphere a little bit. I think this really is an absolutely positive topic and you can see when it's a positive topic as well as a positive atmosphere in discussing such a subject. And I join congratulations to the Minister and Resort Ministry on the activities they're taking and on this information that's come to us here. But here, I'm a little tempted by some debates to give a few reflections, and at the same time, perhaps to underline and to ask some additional questions that I believe the Honorable Minister will give answers. I belong to a number of privileged people who use a short section of a built highway. Indeed, I must say privileged ones, and I would like as soon as possible to be as privileged as possible, even with those elements that the esteemed colleague Bešlagić has now said possible pollution. I have to say, it's a lot easier for me to suffer than a bad regional road. So that's what I'm saying on the one hand. On the other hand, I would like to refer my colleagues from Zavidović and Tešna to the debate of the distinguished colleague Azra, who said that it is not all too bright when you have a road near your place, so think about her arguments when you think about which side the road should pass. Thirdly, I'm aware that it may not be direct, not perhaps, perhaps, and certainly not directly in the department's competences, but several times it's underlined that. I don't want to go into the highway, I don't want to go into ideas, I don't want to go into execution projects, I want someone who knows it much better than I do. But there's that part that I think we do, from our perspective, and I'd like 64 to do that, what I think we can do in a certain way. In addition to the traffic advantages of building highways on Corridor Vc, which have multiplier effects on all life forms in BiH, the current one, first one, so I would say the most expected, it seems to me that at this point may be the most important. Although he has already been mentioned by his colleagues, this one, but I would like, especially from this aspect, as far as possible, to the minister and possibly propose to us in the BiH Parliament what would be necessary for us to do in order to, behold, I have seen about from several debates, and our wish, our wishes can also be realized. When I asked some in informal conversations about the stock of the highway so far, why are they not domestic performers involved, or why are they subcontractors? Here, those who followed a little more closely, you saw that the government of the Federation of BiH had to take intervention measures to protect these subcontractors from performers. Because these contractors, obviously, besides using our resources, our financial resources, they're step-motherly treating those who actually make that road. So if ours can be your subcontractors and build that road, and they're just taking the puck, I don't see why they can't be performers. I was told then that because this is what this is all about, so this billion about KM that we're talking about, it's all credit assets. These stocks that we've been doing with our own resources, I don't know what's kept us from thinking about our performers, but I'm told it's a direct answer. That creditors set the conditions that potential performers must meet. And that these conditions are so set that none of our performers can theoretically meet those conditions. So I'd like a very precise answer, if that's the case -- so what can we do to make it not so, to really engage our construction operation from all parts of BiH? Because we seem to be thinking very often, here, the stock is passing, it's come to Kaknja, I hope it's going to move on towards Zenica, that it's just an operation from Kaknja, this one, I'm Caricating. So we have operatives beyond that part, meaning both Bihac and Tuzla and Brcko and Bijeljina and Banja Luka, etc., not to order, from Mostar and countless other places. So what we can do is, in my opinion, with all of this, I believe that all these doubts will be removed both around the route and around the projects and about the expropriations and about the dilemma of whether it will be one place and another. But I think that this part is very important and that we try to influence that part of the cake, which is not small to us, is really one engine for ours, here, I won't say a difficult term, a fallen economy, to inject fresh money and really be in the function of those people who are eager to expect these projects, and because of some administrative barriers, they're not able to be part of that project. Thank you very much. I thank Mr. Lozančić. I call now impatient, I will not say patient, for he has been waiting since yesterday, Minister Rud Vidović to answer questions, but also some we have not asked.
ParlaMint-BA_2010-03-24-0.u34029	Thank you very much, Mr. President. Ladies and gentlemen of the Parliament, you see, yesterday we're talking about digitization, today we're talking about road construction, tomorrow we're going to talk about aviation, railways, etc. So these are the jobs that the Ministry of Communications and Transport is in charge of, and I want to take part in this debate on important issues, this is one of the most important issues for BiH, and on the issues and considerations raised, it is seen that it would make sense to organise a thematic session on the subject. But here, it is not disputed and that, through considering the report on work so far, we are not only answering questions, but also, of course, respecting your patience, opening up a wide debate. 65 I have had several occasions, since I took over this ministry, to answer parliamentary questions and a lot of things you've been advocacy about the activities being conducted in the Ministry of the last few years, and I would say the last six, seven months as I am head of this ministry. And what happened from last year to this year was contained in this report and, of course, I have no intention of convincing him, nor reading him, you have read what is seen from the questions you have asked. But what I want to say at first is, therefore, clear to all of us that this project is a common competence of all levels of government, therefore, from state, entity, cantonal, county, or municipal authorities. And these days, in fact, certain activities are being finalised towards the lowest levels of government, so, county and municipal when it comes to expropriation, as the most sensitive part when it comes to parcels at this point. But here, I will, therefore, brief you on what has been happening since the end of last year when the information has been written to this day. Today is the end of the third month, and I'd say the last two, three months have actually achieved a lot of what we've been doing for six months, and it's a deadlock that a few questions have been raised by respected MPs. And this delay in the process, that is, in the dynamics, my pleasure and mine, my number one, and others who participated in the talks, was removed this morning at the Federation of BiH government. Therefore, two decisions have been adopted by the Federation of BiH Government which have at the moment been derailed and concerning the operationality of the four shares covered by the international contract, agreement, loan with banks and for which the project documentation has been completed in full and for which the means of expropriation has been provided, for which the Government of the Federation of BiH has given its consent to the operationality of these funds, for which the Federal Directorate for Highways has submitted a request to lower levels of government to organise municipal commissions that will play an important role at the moment in determining the market price of the expropriation of parcels through which the highway to Corridor Vc passes. And these days I have had the opportunity to talk to some of the municipality's chiefs on the subject, of course, there is expected engagement in order for the permits and consents necessary to prepare documentation for tender documentation, for the opening of an international tender to be completed, not only by those responsible for the institution, so, what is the resolution ministry required to do, but also by other consent, power, PTT, or telecoms, electricity, utility, etc. Here, there is Mr Namik Kupusović, he is the head of this project, about 17, 18 standard consent should be collected and I think there will be no problem at the level of the municipalities. But, here, I will try, as asked questions, answer and, of course, leave the possibility if necessary and more detailed, there will be Mr. Kupusović helping me, but I think I have managed to write down all the questions, if someone is not satisfied with the answer, I am ready to answer, of course. Therefore, the current situation relating to two international agreements with the Republic of Croatia. These agreements refer to the connection points, therefore, up the bridge, at the north of the Svilaj Bridge and the southern border, the Bijac crossing the procedure, so in the BiH Council of Ministers the first phase, went through the procedure and in the BiH presidency, which is actually relevant for approval, the opening of the agreement, formed commissions. In parallel with these two agreements, the agreement for the international bridge of Gradiška also passed the same procedure. On Wednesday, our BiH commission is going to Zagreb and is definitely preparing an agreement that should actually be signed soon and that will come for ratification, as some agreements here from the air force came yesterday. According to my information, Minister Kalmeta is... in Croatia, 66 procedures are simpler, so three, four times shorter than ours. The agreement is directed towards the government, the agreements are directed towards the Government of the Republic of Croatia and there is no reason not to accept them. There were several questions whether problems in the Federation of BiH government were removed? Since we, when adopted by the Council of Ministers of BiH, this information... therefore, the Ministry has proposed one conclusion which, in fact, calls on the government of the Federation of BiH and its ministries to, as we have said, solve the problem of access to the credit agreement and to allow for approval and authorisation, I have already said. So, the disputed shares, we have to talk like that, were points of Blagaj and the Počitelj. Of course, the local community asked for a few meetings, we held a lot of meetings with the local community and at the end of the emergency and the need to find a common solution, and at this point, we still don't have a common solution. But we do have a way that actually made it possible for the undisputed shares, and all of these are thought to be on the Corridor Vc track, to enter into the procedure of issuing consent to the Federal Ministry of Spatial Planning and lower levels. And in today's session of the Federation of BiH government, decisions have been adopted that will oblige the Federal Ministry of Spatial Planning in the next six months to refer Mostar-North to the resort of the Holidays' analysis to establish the final proposal of the route, the best, therefore, not to have the most optimal, but the best course proposal that meets the criteria and technical and financial and transport and economic. These decisions have left room for these solutions at the moment, and have also allowed for the uncontested shares, in particular these shares for which credit funds are secured, for which BiH does not pay interest, but for the pens, to be operational as soon as possible and for these four shares, so Svilaj – Odzak, Trivuša – Donja Gracanica, Vlakovo – Tarčino and Bijač – Zvirović, collects documentation, consent and prepares tender documentation for tendering. Here several MPs have touched on the possibility of supporting domestic entrepreneurs, the issue is current and you see the reactions themselves in seeking a possible way, so President Lozančić finally said what we can do in this regard, as the BiH Parliament. Of course, certain conclusions are possible, I'd say, to force it to find a possibility. And we've already said, we've given in information and in shows like this, that by tendering, by creating sublots or smaller shares, we're going to create an opportunity for our operatives, our entrepreneurs to be organized in a consortium, to apply in time and to be favourable at prices. But what we have to do at this point, it's obligations and credit agreements, and the obligation of the Public Procurement Act, the tender must be an international character and, of course, as soon as it is, it gives the performers the opportunity from, I would say, the whole world to apply. And I believe that, here, these short shares that are now the subject of this loan, in fact, are not of ten, the longest is, I think, twenty and a few kilometers, that's not even a long share, if necessary, is it, and the unders are arranged for our performers to be competitive. In all of this there are clear criteria, you know, here, the bridge, it's not the jurisdiction of our ministry, in talking to the Federal Directorate, so I have information, the vijenac at Kaknja, one of the references was that the bidder had to deliver evidence that in recent years, I don't know how many years, he did a similar bridge. So our entrepreneurs who have an operation, in my opinion, from this moment on have the opportunity to organize and connect with some performers who have such references. The corridor through RS, therefore, documentation, there has been done a lot to prepare the documentation faster than in the Federation of BiH, the truth is a shorter share of 49km, the smaller problems. 67 So the stock from Doboj to Vukosavia at this point is not the subject of a credit arrangement. However, in a conversation with the EBRD, given that they are the European Development Bank, interested in additional lending, there is a promise that this share could also be the subject of a loan if, until then, the situation with STRABAC is defined, I don't know in which way, I wouldn't talk about it. As for further expropriation activities, I said earlier that the government of the Federation of BiH had agreed the other day on the means that could be operational, and they were, in fact, collected from the toll on the highway in the length of 37, eight kilometers, as far as we have. So we have so many highways built and of... 10 fenings, therefore, per litre of oil sold and in the opinion of the Federation of BiH Government, here, I have that decision, we believe that these funds would be sufficient for these four shares that are now subject to credit. Mr. Šefik Džaferović asked a very important question, when we look at the essence of the overall corridor, because with this billion converting marks, so at this moment we want to spend as soon as possible on the construction of the road, we have solved about a hundred and thirty kilometers, we have 170 km of the most difficult, the most difficult two shares, that is Zenica – Doboj and Tarčin – Mostar. And we think that we could make those stocks a combination, therefore, of a public-private partnership. Here, information, I think I filed it last time, but here, once again, if the EBRD had provided us with an arrangement with an English company called Etkins, which these days concludes the study, I would say, the feasibility of a public-private partnership with models. And we think that by then we would have done a lot of things, and we would have created the possibility of future interested concessionaries that these heavy shares... and many say it's better done than credit arrangements... In the meantime, we're working on making project documentation, truth, these days, they've been speeding up activities on these shares that are subject to credit. And, of course, all of these loop problems, you know, exit, approach, it's time to talk now, not to go into the moment, as it happened, here, there's been such a grudge for these disputed shares, that we have a loan that needs to be operational, which in certain provisions says that the time has passed to pay for the penals. And here, we haven't solved the problems in the field, no matter how public debates existed, the question is how much public debate and support, published, etc. So now it's time for the local communities to get involved, in collaboration with the state ministry, the ministry is fully available. We recently talked about the loop down there, I was in Tešnja, in Usora, etc. Public-private partnership, well, it's the Zavidovići loop. Is the Federation of BiH resolved? It is. How much, then, was the estimate of how much left over. So, according to our estimates, the rest of the shares that are not the subject of the loan would be around two billion euros. And we think that, in that sense, a public-private partnership can find that space. And further along, the fast road Lašva – Donji Vakuf. It's not a direct jurisdiction, but I'm the same with those spaces and I have information, so we, on my insistence, were founded in Mostar four, five months ago, at a meeting, co-ordination of the communications and traffic ministers, so, entity and state, because our powers lie, intertwine and it makes sense to hold meetings. At such a meeting, at the co-ordination of ministers, we discussed the urgency of building fast roads in the RS and the Federation of BiH, so, here in the Federation of BiH, it concluded that the fast road of Tuzla – Brcko – Oresje is already entering, I would say, in the arrangement and the Federal Government has already spoken with some of the banks. And the fast road of Lashva – Donji Vakuf, the government decided, given 68 that it was the busiest road, so that, therefore, the launch of the concession, due to the number of vehicles that are increasing from day to day, would be..., therefore, interested in one number of investors. And these days, the government has made a decision and is preparing tender documentation to call potential concessionaries. So, well, the terms I said. Now I'm going to joke a little bit, so I've been getting a little bit of a press release lately, is that right, some praises don't praise, and it's interesting here that both the position and the opposition, of course, thank you for that, but when the problems were discussed very often, then the question arises to me – is there any political will in BiH for the highway to Corridor Vc? I also became convinced when I was a representative and, of course, when I took over the Ministry, that there was absolutely political will in the BiH Parliament for this project and no one could, therefore, label any party that was not interested. The question is, therefore, only the operationalities of our conclusions and decisions made earlier, both in the Federal Parliament and in the Federal Government, and in the Government of the Republic of Slovenia and in the state parliament, here, all our reports have been adopted so far. But what could be the conclusion, the support of this project, therefore, doesn't have to be commended, that it is supported by the Ministry at the total engagement. By following these conclusions that the Council of Ministers... together with other levels of government, I, above all, think, of entities, in terms of time and when we finish the project documentation, we are participants in the overall project until the end. We will not finish our part of the work when, for these four shares 31.3. we submit the documentation, we want to be participants, since the Ministry has identified a large number of people working on this project, a large number of professional designers and auditors who are working on this project and we are as such ready to put them all into office so that what we want and what is our obligation to do as soon as possible, so let's move on with the activities. And lastly, the last answer to one question, what do we expect this year, I think Mr. Izetbegović asked that. What I can say from this position, therefore, after today's decision, these two decisions of the Federation of BiH government, there is no obstacle to the formation of the commission that cantons will propose, and the municipalities, the next, I don't know what time it is, that they can't guarantee for them, do all the necessary consent and call an international tender. In our assessment, if there were no delay in the expropriation and issuance of consent, in my opinion, (we shouldn't..., that these shares could end this year or early next year...) is that too optimistic, I think, if there were no obstacles in all these consents, that we could do so about so. Of course, whether it's time for the 11th, 12th month for the badgers, or if it's 2nd or 3rd, it's now, of course, a question of more force. So all the consent, if this were to be done together, might be at the end of the year, and the baggers, the job, in fact, the highway leaves when the beeper comes in. I told the press the other day that I learned to drive a bugger and I would like to be westerned in this term by that first dig for an hour, I believe that I will experience it. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-BA_2010-03-24-0.u34030	I thank the minister. Are there any other representatives interested in the issues of debate on this issue, on this agenda point? No, we're closing the debate on the fourth item of the agenda. Moving to agenda five, 69 Ad. 5. Report on the work of the Office for the Review of Appeals in 2009 – material of the Office for the Review of Appeals, issue: 01,02-50-3-386/10 of 26.2.2010 We received a report from the Board of Appeal on 26.2.2010. The Commission for Finance and Budget 22.2.2010 delivered its opinion stating that it had adopted only the conclusion set out in Part 18.1. Reports, and no other conclusions in section 18. I'm opening a debate on the report with the Committee's opinion. _________(?) [[no microphone turned on]]
ParlaMint-BA_2010-03-24-0.u34034	Your Honor, Mr. Chairman, ladies and gentlemen of the Parliament. I have the need today to highlight point 8.5 of the complaint received during 2009, with an average time of resolution of these complaints being 22 days. In 48 cases or 3.29% of complaints were resolved within a longer period than prescribed and the average time of resolution of such complaints was 78 days. It was inconceivable that two years ago we'd have to imagine that so quickly, or relatively quickly, we'd come up with this kind of data and I'd have to make a statement, but also the Finance and Budget Commission, that the Board of Appeals made one effort...
ParlaMint-BA_2010-03-24-0.u34035	...now we don't have a quorum, now that the distinguished representative's out, we won't have a quorum. 70
ParlaMint-BA_2010-03-24-0.u34036	... and that he has achieved these envious results in which, otherwise, there must be a time when those who conduct administrative procedures, by submitting annual reports, will convince the public that, in accordance with the law, they are effectively making solutions in these administrative procedures. Since this 3.29% of cases are not negligible either, I suggest the conclusion, these conclusions were also considered on the committee, unfortunately, when we voted, we skipped that statement, so here I am going to offer the House this conclusion. I propose that the House of Representatives of the Parliamentary Assembly of BiH conclude asking the Office of Appeals to prepare and implement a programme of measures to resolve, and to point out, all complaints in the public procurement process within the prescribed deadline. The second conclusion or sub-concession In the Annual Work Report of the Office of Appeals, it is necessary in a specific chapter to process complaints which are not resolved within the prescribed time limit with the precise reasons for extending the time of resolution compared to the prescribed time. These conclusions are further supported by the Board of Appeals to come up with a situation where we can say that the Public Procurement Act is effective in the part of the resolution of participants in the procurement process, I am convinced, and we have had the opportunity to see the President of the Office on the Commission for Finance and Budget, in such a way as to understand it. And I would like, given that I have been appointed to be a rapporteur at the House, if necessary, to say that we have accepted these conclusions, only the first point, and the rest of the points we have left and suggested to the House that this is not supported at this time, and that the Finance and Budget Commission and the Board of Appeals hold a special thematic session of the Commission at which we will consider the proposal on these conclusions and see what is to be done and that the work of the Office of Appeals is advanced. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-BA_2010-03-24-0.u34037	I thank the esteemed representative Jašarević. There are no more reports, we're closing the fifth item of the agenda. Please. _________(?) [[no microphone turned on]] No need, we've heard commendation from the rapporteur on behalf of the commission and thank you. We move to the sixth point of the established agenda. And before, here you go, distinguished representative Denis Bećirović, business intervention. 71
ParlaMint-BA_2010-03-24-0.u34039	The Honorable Chairman, given that we have been working on the edge of the quorum for a long time, and now we have lost the quorum completely, and based on consultation and with a number of clubs here in the BiH Parliament, since this is strong, you will agree, too, a sensitive subject that deserves a certainly qualified majority, and this is not a theme for any voting, etc., the proposal of our club is, if possible, you, as chairman, here, we as the promoters and presidents of the clubs, to take a break of 10, 15 minutes and to agree on how to open this point and when you open it, and probably in the follow-up session. Here, so, with all the clubs I've been talking to, there's an agreement to try and make this a deal right now.
ParlaMint-BA_2010-03-24-0.u34040	Thank you. So I just found out when we lost the quorum, so I realized when we lost the quorum, by that moment we had 22 in the hall, and that is the quorum in accordance with the Rules of Procedure. We can continue the debate and with a lack of quorum, we can't plead, so we can't make decisions if we don't have a quorum. So we can continue the debate, we can, if there's an agreement between the other clubs, take a short break to consult with the club presidents. So, I don't mind if we see how we continue this session. Appreciating the wise recommendation of the Honorable Chairman of the Constitutional Commission, I am giving a 15-minute break to meet the Expansive College. [[PAUZA]] Ladies and gentlemen of the Parliament, please take your seats to continue our work. I'll brief you on the results of this arrangement, which is why this break took a little longer than was announced. We have agreed to continue the work of this session in accordance with the Rules of Procedure and to try today in accordance with the Rules of Procedure to end the work of today's session. And in that sense, here, I'm finding, so since it was a dilemma whether or not we're going to have a quorum, at this point we have a quorum for full-time work and decision-making. We're going to the sixth item of the agenda, Ad. Six. Proposal for a resolution on the importance of condemnation of genocide in Srebrenica and war crimes in Bosnia and Herzegovina for the construction of permanent peace – Proposer: Polsannik Denis Bećirović, issue: 01-02-12-261/10 since 3.2.2010
ParlaMint-BA_2010-03-24-0.u34043	I don't know how many of us at this point are 22, 21, do we really have a quorum? But assuming that we're also on the verge of the quorum, that somehow we have it, we're talking about it now at the College. I'm not going to insist much, but I want here and for a stenogram to say, that such a serious subject, such a sensitive subject certainly deserves to have some qualified majority for that debate. And the BiH Parliament can be determined to work on the edge of the quorum like this, to discuss it, etc., and I will respect it if that decision is made. However, I propose a compromise proposal, and if it is possible to say that we end this session, and that this sensitive and important item of the agenda, however, we are discussing in the ambience when a much larger number of MPs are present, when we can express our views on it at the next session of the BiH Parliament. If we can vote on that, if the MPs think we should work on this composition, on the edge of the quorum, on a subject like this, we'll do, there's nothing else.
ParlaMint-BA_2010-03-24-0.u34044	Thank you. I must say that this present statement of yours raises the need to maintain these consultations and expanded clubs, because I think we've told it all there. And we agreed on what we agreed. For information and for stenograms, as you say, at this point, if I counted well, and whoever doesn't count again, 25 of us are in the hall, which is a lot more than a quorum for a session, as well as a lot less than the total number of MPs that make up this House of Representatives. This item of the agenda is in accordance with the Rules of Procedure and I must repeat it now, although I said there, the mandatory item of the agenda and we, the mandatory item of the agenda, cannot be removed from the agenda, we can, as I said there, complete and end the debate. And if there's a proposal, we can postpone the statement on this agenda point, but if there's a proposal for something like that. So we have all the business conditions and obligations to consider this point. _________(?) 73 [[no microphone turned on]] We can't make a statement about something that's not allowed under the Rules of Procedure. So this is a mandatory item of the agenda, and neither I nor you can now declare something that has already been defined by the Rules of Procedure.
ParlaMint-BA_2010-03-24-0.u34046	No microphone turned on
ParlaMint-BA_2010-03-24-0.u34047	Here you go.
ParlaMint-BA_2010-03-24-0.u34048	Don't say that we can't, very well... and don't now give examples of what we've been doing at certain sessions, and when and how we've interrupted the sessions and the agenda points and expanded. We can, if we want to. I'm only asking, in accordance with current practice, what's wrong with us saying that conclusion, if most of us here want to continue working in this environment, we'll continue, there's no further dispute.
ParlaMint-BA_2010-03-24-0.u34049	This is a very good working environment for now if we want to work, as far as the environment is concerned. As far as the Rules of Procedure are concerned, I can repeat as many times as you want, since you've intervened in business. It means that, according to the Rules of Procedure, it is not possible to remove the mandatory item of the agenda. So it's not possible to take down a mandatory agenda point, we can go through this point without any debate, it's either your point or our will whether we're going to discuss this point at all, and that wouldn't be the first point we're not going to discuss. So, but we can do it, and we can discuss it.
ParlaMint-BA_2010-03-24-0.u34050	...if only the SDP Club insists on what I've been talking about, to end any of these business discussions, we'll open up a point and work. That's why we don't have a discussion or a discussion. I mean, if that's our only option, then let's go to the agenda. Well, let's stop...
ParlaMint-BA_2010-03-24-0.u34051	I ask you, indeed, to try... to help me work in accordance with the Rules of Procedure. So, so far this is no help to work on the Rules of Procedure, I ask you to help me work on the Rules of Procedure, and I have opened a debate on item 6 of the established agenda. Here, here's the replica, the distinguished representative Drago Kalabić. 74
ParlaMint-BA_2010-03-24-0.u34052	I'm sorry, Mr. Chairman, that I have to say, even though I've been trying to, and there at the session and today, three times the extended College has been in session, but we've called in a replica of myself and my colleague, Nanić, and, behold, we've agreed that what we're thinking together. I mean, Denise, if it wasn't correct, the SDP Club is gone, we're silent about it, the SDP Club. _________(?) [[no microphone turned on]] Well, you see, please, the party president is gone, the member, the MPs, and we keep quiet about it, I don't get why he's gone, but, please, we have a quorum, we have everything, we've done everything that we... _________(?) [[no microphone turned on]]
ParlaMint-BA_2010-03-24-0.u34056	Is there anyone here to talk about this? _________(?) [[no microphone turned on]] I don't see anyone reported. Dear Representative Denis Bećirović. 75
ParlaMint-BA_2010-03-24-0.u34058	At the beginning, since I have 20 minutes on behalf of the promoter when it comes to Resolution, I really want to express what we are discussing on this subject in this way, without the presence of two of the three members of the College, almost at the edge of the quorum. But that's someone's will, too, and therefore this agenda point is open. It is, therefore, a resolution proposed by the SDP MPs' Club, the Resolution bears the name – Resolution on the importance of the genocide in Srebrenica and war crimes in BiH to build lasting peace. And we are in this resolution, trying not to offend anyone with the text of this resolution, and that, above all, we essentially condemn all war criminals and honor all the victims of war crimes, both the genocide in Srebrenica and all the war crimes on BiH territory. And that is why this resolution begins with words -- that the BiH Parliamentary Assembly's House of Representatives honours all victims and expresses its deepest condolences to families of victims of genocide committed in Srebrenica, as well as to all BiH citizens who were victims. So here we're not talking selectively about one nation, one religion, but we're talking about all who were victims. The House of Representatives is also called on in this resolution to call, i.e., to assess that bringing the remaining fugitives suspected of genocide and crimes against humanity and war crimes is a prerequisite for building lasting peace and stability in BiH. In this resolution, too, we are calling on and pointing to the importance of the Convention on the Prevention of Crime of Genocide and should, of course, through this Resolution, show willingness, to build a state policy on the values of peace, tolerance and reconciliation. In this resolution, the House of Representatives should make it very clear that acceptance of the International Court of Justice's decisions and compliance with the measures imposed is not only an obligation under the court's decision, but also a condition for building a democratic, open and just society in BiH. In this resolution, too, Parliament should say that any splendor, justification or relativisation of genocide and all other violations of international law is a crime that threatens the constitutional order, present and future of BiH. The resolution also calls on the country's competent authorities to condemn and sanction any attempt to relativise the Srebrenica genocide and war crimes committed in BiH through their legal system and the conduct of state authorities. Also, in this resolution, the BiH Parliament should finally unequivocally and clearly support the text of the Srebrenica Resolution adopted by the European Parliament in Strasbourg on 14 and 15 January 2009. And, of course, at the end of this resolution are called especially on the religious communities, the media and the education system to also act towards building reconciliation and building trust among Bosnian Herzegovic peoples. The resolution also emphasises the importance of the education system and emphasizes the importance of condemning the crimes committed in the past in the education system. We at the SDP Club believe that adopting this resolution would also mean showing, in a certain way, sensitivity and solidarity towards all victims in BiH, as well as surviving victims' families. The memory of Srebrenica genocide and war crimes in BiH should no doubt be built into our common historical memory and the foundations of EU enlargement into the Western Balkans. Also, I think it's very clear today that we should never agree to stereotypes about how the whole peoples are collectively responsible, etc. There is a culprit for every crime, and every 76 criminals should individually answer for their own misdeeds. We are not unknown here in BiH that a large number of countries in the neighbourhood, EU countries, including the European Parliament, have made it clear. It is my opinion that the position on genocide in Srebrenica and war crimes in BiH should have been done first by us in BiH, before the European Parliament and any Parliament in Europe. However, it is unfortunate that 3 years after the International Court of Justice's ruling in The Hague and 15 years after Dejton, the legislator in which we are currently acting in this mandate has not been manifested in any way in connection with the genocide in Srebrenica or war crimes. In these 15 years, no resolution, any declaration or statement that would undoubtedly indicate the BiH war crimes conviction has been adopted in the country's highest legislative body. I have to say that it's obvious, 15 years after Dejton, that there's certainly been a conflict between two ideals, ideals of peace and justice. We have established peace in 1995, but there is still no justice in this country. This resolution is just a step towards justice, a step towards truth and a step towards building lasting peace in these areas. This resolution is without a doubt, who wants to take a fair look at the content of this resolution, in the interests of all the citizens and peoples of this country and in this resolution there is no difference between the victims on their national or religious basis. The crime is a crime, and whoever committed it has to answer for it. We are the fifth assembly of the BiH Parliamentary Assembly, and by the end of this session there are several months left. I think we need to get the strength to adopt one of these documents. With a document like this, we are no doubt late, this should have been done significantly before. I must say, too, before we opened today's debate on this document, that within the SDP Club we had open and tolerated talks with almost all the clubs operating in the BiH Parliament. We also tried this way, before this debate at the session, to point out in a reasonable way why this should be accepted and why this is in the interest of every nation and man in this country. This is a highly sensitive and serious subject and this country has been awaiting this resolution for 15 years. It took five calls from Parliament, so... I hope that in this assembly, at the end of the fifth call, we will adopt this resolution. Why did we speak before this agenda point that this debate required a completely qualified majority of MPs? Because we at the SDP Club think there can be no revote, no majorisation, no coercion or pressure on this subject. The expression of this resolution, if we accept it, should be an expression of our conscience and responsibility, and in this subject absolutely we must try to rise above every day policy, above any narrowing interest, over any personal or any other collective vanity or prejudice. This resolution, if we adopt it, is the resolution of this country and this Parliament and deserves to be perfectly safe to frame it at the entrance of this Parliamentary Assembly of BiH, because in this text we do not insult anyone and are not jeopardising anyone. I think when I talk about this, this isn't a speech about the past. It's not even about the present. This resolution is a speech about the future. And about the future of our children. The future of future generations. There certainly is no man here who does not think that our children and any other children in the future in this country should grow up in a country where its highest legislative body has clearly condemned war criminals and clearly shown deep respect for all victims. 77 This resolution has its chance to be accepted, but first of all, we only need to understand one thing, and if we understand it human and civilizationally, it will get the necessary majority here. And it's that every mother and mother's grief in this country is equally great and that we need to understand it that way. This resolution was also discussed by the Commission for Human Rights and adopted. Basically, in the talks before this is open today, there is not one man who questioned the essence of this resolution. That's exactly what I think we should adopt. The only question is whether there is political agreement that people sitting here in the BiH Parliament can raise their hands for this resolution. In that sense, it remains open and a dilemma whether even after this debate to propose this resolution, together with you sitting in the College, we may call a meeting before the representatives of the College, the representatives of the promoters, the clubs, perhaps with the presidents of the political parties to try to do something, I repeat, not for those who have lost their lives, not for many ruined fates in this country, but for those who come. What is this message to young people in this country if we were unable to agree that war crimes should be convicted and that respect for victims should be shown? In that sense, therefore, we at the SDP Club, starting with the best possible intentions, have proposed this resolution that we believe will become a resolution of the BiH Parliamentary Assembly and of which may have the benefit, I repeat, every man and every nation in this country. Thank you, Mr. Chairman.
ParlaMint-BA_2010-03-24-0.u34059	Thank you. Here, the following has been reported by the esteemed representative Ekrem Ajanović.
ParlaMint-BA_2010-03-24-0.u34060	President, colleagues and colleagues. The position of the Party for BiH on genocide and war crimes has long been known so regardless of who suggested a resolution of this character, we certainly all go and condemn genocide and war crimes we support, in any case. And here I must say that not only in the European Parliament, but even in this House, even before the European Parliament, the Party for BiH has launched a law on the ban on the minimisation and denial of genocide. So there have been some proposals in this House on the creation of codes of condemnation and legal condemnation of genocide as a whole. However, not counting now on everything that has been discussed on many occasions, I must say that the crime of genocide, no matter where it happened, is that every reasonable man supports it. Well, therefore, every reasonable man should also support the resolution, regardless of which party he proposes, so I can say my opinion, that I fully support this resolution. Conviction of genocide and war crimes, I also condemn (?) and I don't think there's any reason for this resolution (?) adopt in the BiH Parliament. Therefore, our support and support for certain... this, Party for BiH will certainly, as MPs of the BiH Party who are fighting for the condemnation of genocide and war crimes, have no doubt that we will support it, regardless of who suggested it and who initiated it in the BiH Parliament. 78 Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-BA_2010-03-24-0.u34061	Thank you. Next is Honorable Representative Slavko Jovičić.
ParlaMint-BA_2010-03-24-0.u34062	The Honorable Chairman, ladies and gentlemen. I'll start right off with the name and suggestion of this... building permanent peace. Whenever there was a theme similar to this one or when Srebrenica was mentioned in other things, I always said and today I will, first I will ask myself a question, and then I will propose. What is the purpose and purpose of this resolution? Does the promoter really think that if the nations adopted this resolution, they would all get back together and we would all accept one truth here, and I was in other versions saying that there are three, four, 104 truths here, every story of our own. Does anyone really think that adopting this resolution would lead to peace in BiH and no one would ever mention the suffering of this people, or those, or their victims, or others, or I know whose. So, distinguished colleagues, we're witnessing each other's facts today, we'll see what happens. I respect, I said, as a legalist, some court decisions, not some but decisions, and you see, five days ago, the director of the Srebrenica Memorial Center said that over 50 people were buried there in '92. and '93. So they have nothing to do with this July 11th. What if he shows up and until a month ago when I said there were cases like this, I was almost exposed to lynching. And now, the Srbin didn't make it up, that's what the Director of the Memorial Center said that's it. Even the president of the Federal Parliament Commission to seek the missing, today a member of the Institute, Mr Amar Mašović confirmed. Where were you gentlemen 7-8 years ago or in 2003, when I was in the Potocari to say it then, and you knew it. So then we were deceived and the truth wasn't told. Does anyone think that only by name will there be lasting peace in BiH only because of what is called this. The second thing, I always plead here in the BiH Parliament, to be honest and open as much as I disagree. I'll speak for myself now, of course. Does anyone understand my position as a man who suffered the death, so who led a few tens of thousands of people who went through terrible torments, and both Bošnjak and Hrvat passed away and never... ever did. And, you know, I'm not going to say that it's a name fraud when you say the motion for a resolution on the importance of condemning genocide in Srebrenica. You later can dedicate the entire text to the loss of the Serbian or Croatian people, this is a feature of the resolution – Srebrenica. And don't put us in a position not to even know what it is. But just because we know what it is, we don't deny it or want to make any confrontations with you, so let's just say you shouldn't have suggested it or did. That's your thing. You're right. As I have the right to speak plainly and clearly on behalf of the victims of my people, while I am here, and hopefully fellow Members, this cannot be accepted for these reasons now. The first is that it will never contribute to lasting peace. That he will and that is possible, we do not need a 42-seat quorum. Five reasonable people would have agreed on a higher level and would not have come to Parliament if we had today after 15 years of this debate. But that's not possible, people. Tomorrow I know what will happen to my address. And let it happen, but that's it. 79 I'm not going out to Bugojno tomorrow, though I love him. I'm in front of voters in RS. I'm going out to the Serbian people. When I say voters, I don't mean these choices, but who chose me. And I know in countless contacts what they told me. And even if they didn't tell me, I have an opinion, because I'm not going anywhere to look for him. So, to go another 15 years, I don't know, perhaps the next meetings of the BiH Parliament will have stronger power, there may be some new truth that will bring attitudes closer. I assure you, friends, really friends, and this is not demagogy, this is not going to achieve peace, but we are going to new conflicts and confrontations of inconceivable proportions. First thing I won't say is that I'm being threatened by Srbin, but I will not be threatened by anyone, not by Bošnjak, God Bog, or Hrvat, but by my people. Because they didn't choose me here to take a big salary, but to represent the interests of those people who voted for me. And of course, I can't perform here as an individual player because then there's no team game. And all the things I've said many times before, I've always pleaded, come on, people, some themes that we're looking for that will bring us together. I'll tell you a hundred times, and no one has to agree with me, this, people, divides us even more than we are now close. Srebrenica is a painless wound and I was in 2003, I will repeat today, at the opening of the Memorial Center. I came first out of my best intentions, and I'm telling you the truth, I'm not provoking anyone, I'm giving my hand. It wasn't the back hand on the other side. Does one of me expect me to support this now? At least someone said five Srbin were killed in the Srebrenica and Bratunac area. Never anyone. Niko one invented 3,200 names there that were killed before these events. What do we do with them? What date do they belong to? Which victims do they belong to? Who in some place... doesn't need any resolution, I'm just repeating, what the resolution will contribute and what will happen when it passes, and it won't pass. And this isn't an ultimatum. It won't go away because a huge number of Serbian people are not in the truth with the truth of the Bosniak people, as the other way around, as the third people are when, of course, I will never forget the Hrvat. And the Hrvat died. They have their own truth. International truth has its own truth. Each individual has its own truth. And the truth is one and indivisible. Unfortunately, this is not the time, let it be 15, and that it has been 50 years, it is not time to look at Srebrenica reconciliation, a new co-existence in BiH. I don't really know if you ever respect the opinion of your partners, here, don't call us friends, from the RS, the position we're in. Not that we're looking for an alibi, or that someone was putting pressure on me and calling me. No one in their life will ever do that. But I know by my conscience, Mr Bećirović, why didn't you put it here – the conviction of closing the last concentration camp, here, I won't call it genocide, but concentration – silo 27 January '96. years, where I come from, which is the last one closed and after the Dayton deadline. What am I going to tell my companions who, unfortunately, survived a little? They're gone. So the tragedy is individual, collective, national, religious, planetary, but it will not reconcile the people in this House in this way. Maybe we, friends, would be sitting here on our own autonomously without one of our own, people, maybe we would trust each other or agree, as we go for coffee friendly, so as we understand each other. People, don't ask us, from the Srbin of RS to support this and be accidentally angry. You have no reason. But it's not like I'm asking you to understand us, so, well, here's how we're getting along with our people right now. No, this is the attitude of a huge number of Srbin, and when their attitude is, we are elected here by their votes. Whose interests do I represent here? Neither the European Parliament nor their resolution nor anyone else. I want a resolution in BiH that will reconcile the peoples. This one won't. So don't expect us to support this, no matter how we get it, as you understand. But believe that 80 is the best contribution for BiH and its stability, however, you will see. Anyway, think about it. Everything that came by force, I'm not saying this is a force, but without the will of a nation, it wasn't good for BiH. But it is a better common least step in the consent of the three peoples and it draws BiH forward, than one resolution that is of interest, I will not say one people, of course, but one party. Here, you're the promoters. That's what this is about. Mr. Bećirović, as you say - a shame, I would say that you too are ashamed to throw it at me and that you know that this will not go away, that you have been pushing for three years to take advantage of tonight's position to accuse the Serbian people, to accuse the Serbian MPs, to accuse me, to accuse anyone living who will not support this and will not.
ParlaMint-BA_2010-03-24-0.u34063	No microphone turned on
ParlaMint-BA_2010-03-24-0.u34064	No benching, no throwing.
ParlaMint-BA_2010-03-24-0.u34065	I didn't say, Mr. Bećirović, let me finish and replicate, you have the right to replication.
ParlaMint-BA_2010-03-24-0.u34066	Time.
ParlaMint-BA_2010-03-24-0.u34067	Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-BA_2010-03-24-0.u34068	Dear Representative Bakir Izetbegović, next.
ParlaMint-BA_2010-03-24-0.u34069	So this is a very important and painful topic. And that's why we're all here, all of us, at the SDA MPs' club present, Šemsudin is currently out, but he'll come to the vote and support, normally, this resolution. The SDA tried a resolution like this at the moment it was brought to the European Parliament in Strasbourg and failed. So what is acceptable to the European Parliament, it was unacceptable, here, for this Parliament. Politics is the art of possible and we've been waiting for a time when it will be possible. We don't need a depressing repetition, a rejection of the Srebrenica Resolution, a depressing rejection of a painful thing for us. We don't need a repeat of that. That was the reason we didn't repeat this repetition. We're tired of 81 being rejected once. Obviously, here you have seen from the discussion of MEP Jovičić, who has also been through war suffering, that this thing, unfortunately, has not yet matured to pass. Either way, the SDA will definitely support this resolution. It would be good, I say, that time is better timed, when it is possible to get this resolution and I think it would be good to do some things in the text itself. So, the resolution on the importance of condemning genocide in Srebrenica and war crimes in BiH to build lasting peace. This is a resolution of genocide. It's not a resolution about importance. Because the resolution on importance should point out the reasons why it's important... this is a judgment resolution. This "about importance" is too high. And then, the end of the title -- war crimes in BiH to build lasting peace. Well, I guess war crimes in BiH are not a function of building lasting peace, are they? So repeat that thing or let the lecturer help you out here. Well, he obviously didn't. A resolution on the importance of condemning genocide in Srebrenica and war crimes in BiH to build lasting peace. Four, the adoption of the International Court of Justice Decision and the fulfilment of the measures imposed. There are a lot of decisions made by the International Court of Justice. State the decision of the International Court of Justice. You know what decision you mean. Then at point 5, two points – that BiH through its legal system and the conduct of state authorities clearly condemns and sanctions any attempt to relativise genocide in Srebrenica and war crimes committed in BiH, and then – that BiH through its legal system and the conduct of state authorities clearly condemns any denial of genocide in Srebrenica and war crimes in BiH. Enough to say that any attempt to deny and relativize genocide in Srebrenica and war crimes, you can put it in one. Then, the next point – that BiH strengthens the judicial system and creates conditions for more efficient prosecution of all participants in criminal acts, among other things (war propaganda). I wouldn't say that our court... you must have a taxicab of this number, which you can be prosecuted for. That there is a crime of war propaganda. There's war propaganda. In peace, there's an invitation to war, some war-scraper, probably... This is probably too high. I'm paying attention to that thing. So the next -- that BiH in its education system insists on... condemning the crimes committed in the past and that the education system, among other things, builds on the need for young people in BiH to be brought up in harmony, and then I skip, in line with the disgust of any attempt to justify the crime. I think this can be better formulated. So I think there should have been a better timing for this, which allows us to really not experience this resolution again, and in the text itself, please, here I suggest, in fact, to enter some corrections, repairs, and we will support this resolution. Thank you.
ParlaMint-BA_2010-03-24-0.u34070	Thank you. The next is a respected representative of Azra Hadžiahmetović.
ParlaMint-BA_2010-03-24-0.u34071	Thank you. 82 The chairman, I thought there would be no need for a big debate after Mr Ajanović's presentation, which reminded his present colleagues and colleagues of the previous views when these issues and similar documents, including the resolutions of the same promoter, etc., were before us. Look, we all know what this is about. And I am not sure that all these useful suggestions on the text of the Resolution, which my colleague Izetbegović was talking about, can possibly contribute to passing one of these documents. Just as I'm convinced that even the promoter, even though I wouldn't even refer to who the proposal comes from in this case, which is important to someone, it's important what's coming, is it... That there's an illusion that right now is the right time for this. But there's something that's kind of in our approach, these discussions of this kind, sort of, a little annoying. I (I won't, I'll) try to get rid of any emotional performance, but, here, I'll go from discussion or a few thesis, more in an attempt to maybe try to understand ourselves a little bit better. What is the meaning of this resolution? The question asked by his colleague Jovičić. Purpose and meaning. You see, if you're looking from the position of the proposing alone, you're finding a goal, that is, the meaning of another species. Then we'll never get to what the purpose of this document is, at least it's clear, in his name, no matter what the suggestions may be, that maybe the name was clearer again, more effective. The point is that we face it, I won't talk so much to the past, but let's face it ourselves. And here's how we face each other. There are not three truths here, if we are talking about Resolution, the European Parliament's document. What three truths? In one document, 27 is true, EU member states, if we talk about such things. Or what three truths do we have? There's either truth or there isn't. Is this perhaps a reason to maybe face something else? Shall we now open the question of truth? We who are here, in some way, all the victims of the event, all the victims, no matter what someone thinks someone is a bigger victim, someone a little smaller. I don't weigh victims. I'm saying, we're all victims. Thus, stories of 50 or over 50 people being buried in a cemetery before genocide absolutely will not reduce the weight, or these three truths, or asking questions about three truths, the judgment of the court about what happened in Srebrenica. Genocide is genocide, so we can act like owls, stick our head in the sand, etc. The only question here is whether we will ever open a story about anything in BiH that will contribute to the better future of all BiH citizens. Even if it was due to the European Parliament's resolution on genocide in Srebrenica. You see, this is not a resolution on the cemetery or the Potocari Memorial Centre, nor on the number of mesars there, nor is this a resolution on Bošnjak as victims in Srebrenica, which is what the promoter said at the outset. But here, I mean, I'm just trying to kind of encourage some topics that might help us open up some issues, not us personally, maybe the BiH Parliament in the next session, with some other MPs, etc., to open a story that will help create conditions for a better future, I repeat, for all BiH citizens. Let no one here have the illusion that someone will live better because someone else lives worse. You, colleague Jovičić, I apologize for saying, I mean, this may have just given me a creamworth, probably not a colleague of Jovičić's speaking for himself, nor do I speak for myself. About three reasons for not accepting you, if I did, even though I was really trying really hard to listen to 83 carefully and profile what three reasons are. First of all, it'll never be. That's no reason. And never say never, colleague Jovičić, for nothing, because we could have guessed before '92. that it will never come to what has happened in BiH. (I guess we could all do that, that it would never come to what it had come to). Maybe someone assumed something would happen, but I'm not sure everyone thought it would ever happen. Second, that's no reason for me. Second, that this will not achieve peace, but that we go into confrontation. If you're taking my discussion as a confrontation, then someone's been screwing up and arguing, etc. This may be painful, it may be irritable, but believe me, it's not painful anymore, and it's less painful. No one. Don't say it at all, I mean, because the reasons for the pain can be found in both arguments on both sides. So let's try to find some way that's gonna... is that Srebrenica like a cause? Maybe we can find another reason for reconciliation. But if it's reconciliation, then it's Srebrenica, then it's Sarajevo, then it's also the site of various injuries throughout BiH. I don't measure victims here or the amount of victims. But the way we approach this, or the way that someone thinks that with their relationship to documents of this kind, even if it was tomorrow, is whether, in pure form, the European Parliament resolution or the proposal, some of our authentic, adapted, etc., will not diminish one fact, and that is the decision of the court and the qualification of what happened. The third argument you mentioned, that it's not time to ask for reconciliation on Srebrenica, I don't know if the accent here was that it wasn't time or that it wasn't on Srebrenica. And it would be good if we knew that, too. To know if it's time or when it's time. Well, maybe we should try to understand each other, make sure that time is yesterday, because we'll move faster sooner. Is it Srebrenica or not reconciliation, it implies, among other things, condemning all crimes with all qualifications of the specific severity of crime, including genocide in Srebrenica. I fully agree that we need to select the topics that are approaching us, but we need to be prepared that behavior as a node won't remove anything from happening. And someone, when we do the first step, and someone's going to do the tenth, etc., and someone's going to come up with what's going to be a better guess tomorrow, I think it's better if we start with that. I'm not sure if there are any of these ways of thinking, that over 50 people buried there have been buried since '92. before genocide or 3,200 names that were victims before genocide, etc., if it's an approach that someone thinks there's specific weights on one victim or on one victim's locality or on one nation or on one entity, let's open all the victims, all of them, etc., but let's condemn it. It's very important, I mean, by running away from this, even though we all know perfectly well how this is going to end, but it won't reduce the conviction or judgment of anyone who's given a qualification to it, whether someone likes it or not. In that sense, I would like to mention that there is no reason here for anyone to be angry, colleague Jovičić. I speak for all of us who are very aware of the relationship here in BiH and, as you said, don't be human. We won't be angry, we won't be angry, here, if that's the first step we start talking about these things and other things...
ParlaMint-BA_2010-03-24-0.u34072	Time. 84
ParlaMint-BA_2010-03-24-0.u34073	...and about everything else, for the sake of a better or better future, here, I say right now we won't be angry.
ParlaMint-BA_2010-03-24-0.u34074	Replica, distinguished representative Slavko Jovičić.
ParlaMint-BA_2010-03-24-0.u34075	Thank you, Your Honor. Well, I said 3,200 Serbian names before the July 11th event. So it's 3,200 Srbin who were killed in the area. Furthermore, it doesn't occur to me that with 50 of those that were earlier... and whenever a man was killed, killed in any way, it doesn't matter the date, he's gone. But, well, that's how it happened, and I just mentioned it, not thinking that I'm reducing my victims from those 50 in Srebrenica. But we have countless things today, and I think it's great... and not what I've got in my head, if we had rightly solved World War II and seen who did what to whom and how, then I would have learned the truth in 2006 or 2002, it doesn't matter, I knew in 1960 when I went to first grade. And this is what it looked like, that Vlado Šegrt knew how to come to the Herzegovic village, as soon as he heard that two young men had gone into the Chetniks, killed all the rest of Serbian youth. Could I have learned and heard that, people? The Falsifikovan was completely history. Congested here – there pits, other traumas, other memories, every nation has a painful history. And you can't say that by segments, here, this one's like that. Every nation, so when we take it off from collectiveity, an individual just... Bog saved me from sitting here with you, and maybe better... because if I were alive before I ran to be this. Exactly because of my suffering and what happened to me, my tragedy is greater than anything possible, but I will not compare myself to any major tragedies. The other thing, have you ever heard of countless of my public advances, I say, of course, on my own behalf, that I was protecting someone who was convicted of war crimes? Never, never. He committed a crime, let him answer, in my name, and in Bog's name, on behalf of the Serbian people, no one should have committed a crime. So they've already been convicted. But I totally understand and if I were a Bošnjak, maybe I'd be more radical, or I don't know what else I'm suggesting. I totally get it, people. But you understand me and the representatives of the Serbian people that this is not, Professor, that I was talking about (a moment, not for the whole of BiH, but for the Resolution on Srebrenica, that we draw closer and how such trust) because, believe me, do you follow... I do not mean to you, I am not telling you, no, does this people follow a statement, what only one person's statement can do in BiH? To get you back to '92. He says he'll come back, there'll be war. There will never be a war again, ever.
ParlaMint-BA_2010-03-24-0.u34076	Time. 85
ParlaMint-BA_2010-03-24-0.u34077	So, you understand that it's not possible to get support from SNSD representatives, hopefully Serbian... but here they are. No, I hope not, because it is a situation with both the Serb people and the RS and it is not the time for this resolution.
ParlaMint-BA_2010-03-24-0.u34078	Now I'm going to give myself my word again, because I have to go out there for a pay phone. Okay, ladies and gentlemen of the MPs, and this little guest that we have left to follow, this is one topic that is very, very, very serious and sensitive. And that's where I agree with all the previous speakers. I, unlike the previous approach to this topic, both before and in today's debate, will try to choose one easier approach. I will not convince anyone whether or not this resolution should be accepted. I don't mean to state to anyone the reasons why it should possibly be against this resolution. I have no claim that we will establish this or any other resolution any historical truth or any untruth. I won't comment, at least I'll try not to comment on anything my colleagues and colleagues have said before me except one thing alone. I don't think it's a good line in the resolution debate when, before the debate ends, any of us says, I know how this ends. I really have expectations about how this is going to end, and as it ends, we're all going to decide today in this room. What's this about? So we have a resolution that could have had a simpler name. I was already scared that the motioner of this resolution was on the move, as if he wanted to convince us not to accept the resolution. But here, I'm going to say a few compliments on the proposal. I think that indeed the text of the Resolution, however imperfect it seemed, may have once been repeated, what the esteemed representative Izetbegović was saying, may have had a complicated name, there is one intention and the intention not to irritate anyone. At least that's how I read it, and I wanted to read this text of the Resolution. We here will not determine or count how many crimes have occurred in BiH, how many criminals are in BiH, especially we are unable to count how many victims and graves in BiH are unfortunately. But I'm sure we all agree, too many graves or mesars for such a small country. And there don't need any historians, enough of some road trip anywhere in BiH and see many, many new features, so to speak, in different religious, ethnic and other backgrounds, but to recognize very, very, very, very, to say, the overcrowding of cemeteries, mesars in one, again, relatively short period. And that's true. So that's the truth that, yes, we've established here or not, it is, unfortunately, there. In front of this or some other assembly of the BiH Parliament, there will be a whole series of other difficult decisions, if this is a difficult decision. Here, I want to approach in one way, I don't think it's a hard decision here at all. As much as it may have happened to any of us, I will try to say something about this resolution in that sense. 86 Is the normal, expected civil gesture in the developed world today, and also in the underdeveloped, democratic world, and even the less democratic, in urban environments, and even in those rural ones, in whatever parts you want, that all living people clearly recognize what a crime is. Crime is a crime. Whoever did it to whoever he did it to. We, unfortunately, have faced in this country the most severe type of crime that the human race has ever devised and invented and realized. So what's right is called a war crime, we've even faced something inside these crimes, and they're hard to build, but they're harder than they are, they're the most difficult of all, called genocide. And it's not because I, or one of you says it is or isn't, it's usually the courts' verdicts and they say -- yes, this is where the genocide happened. And we can like it or not like it. And to us here, and especially to the victims, here, which here, and I agree with, I was just going to say, there's no luck here, but I agree with my esteemed colleague, because that's the only comment I'm going to make, we're all in one way or another. We may not think we are, but we are. And the way we think about this, apparently, I say, and the hard and easy subject, it shows how many victims we are. Because if we weren't victims, we would have made a decision on these issues easily. If it's a crime, it's a crime. If we say to ourselves that we are part of the civilization world, if each of us individually says a hundred times how he detests every crime, then why is it a problem to condemn him publicly, institutionally, through an institution called the BiH Parliament, in which we are sitting? I don't mind condemning any crime, especially the harder it is, the easier it is to condemn it. When it's easier, then I can calculate a little bit, so think or maybe we might find it harder to recognize it, but when it's a serious crime, it's really easy to define. Here in this resolution, when I said that the chosen words, unfortunately, were thinking what I would say now, that genocide happened, I mean, uh, and now I'm saying again, uh, and conditionally, only in Srebrenica, I wouldn't want anyone to get me wrong. So, because he was convicted, the court ruled him out so we wouldn't go into those discussions. Resolution says all crimes are convicted. And this is how I debated the committee when we discussed this resolution and what else do we say now? All of them, and everyone, and all of them, three times, five times, all of them, but enough when we say all the crimes. I think it's clear enough. Compassion all victims, all victims. So they don't have, except, when we're trying to manipulate a few politicians and a team, then they have both a national and a religious omen and a geographical omen, they have everything else, but they're basically just victims. So they're just victims, and we can run as much of that as we want to, when we want to manipulate, but the fact that it's being manipulated. In order for that category of manipulation to be avoided, I will agree with all those who say that one of these should have been brought long ago... as far as I'm concerned, we can at each session bring one resolution condemning all crimes, all criminals, to be brought to justice, especially all genocides in the world, wherever they happen, and, unfortunately, here we are. So, we can at every session... it's about our willingness to make one civilization gesture. And that's a question for each of us individually. Each of us has his own consciousness and conscience, and he will be determined according to it. I don't mean to convince anyone that you're going to accept this because of me. Or don't take it for me. Let everyone decide how he thinks, but I really think that here in this resolution, (i.e. by agreeing that the happier version would have been that we had enough hearing and readyness to make one..., to be even better, that means, I don't think that this... this one doesn't irritate anyone, that's for sure, but to be even better, clearer, that it might be, even though this one isn't premeditated, I'm going to say this, so, here, in that sense). However, I think that this 87 text, as it is, would be one excellent gesture of this call to the BiH Parliamentary Assembly, namely, the House of Representatives, to express, above all, the pitet, my condolences to all, again, to all the victims and to condemn all the crimes and to be a message that in this country and this part of the world never and never the crimes will be hidden, hidden, glorified, but that they will always and always be condemned in one way or another. Thank you very much. I thank the esteemed Vice President Lozančić. The next is Remzija Kadrić, a respected representative.
ParlaMint-BA_2010-03-24-0.u34079	I thank you, Chairman. On the trail of what MP Izetbegović was talking about, when it comes to this position 4, perhaps even more precise, could be specified – the BiH Parliamentary Assembly's House of Representatives estimates that the adoption of the verdicts has a short name for the former Yugoslavia's tribunal, all the tribunal's rulings for the former Yugoslavia and the International Court of Justice's ruling in The Hague in the BiH case against Yugoslavia. In that part, it could be like some kind of add-on. Secondly, every resolution has its own form. She could also have had her own form, preamble, starting with this, that, so about all the resolutions have their own form and so could, in some ways, that form be entered and satisfied here. So, I just want to say that when we talk about who proposed it so far, and Adem Huskić has so far proposed this Resolution in the BiH Parliament and we know what the fate of these initiatives is and it was indeed he who referred the Resolution on Srebrenica to European Parliaments and various parliaments and thanks to such interventions and initiatives, many parliaments have adopted the resolution. And what else could be added here, Bećirović, in a way, should be called back through the resolution, could be called an international community that could indeed, the international community could have prevented genocide, war crimes in BiH, because they knew who planned everything, they knew, could prevent crimes and genocide from happening in BiH. And if they did, they would neither bring nor propose these resolutions that have such a single content. No matter what, this resolution, as the least we can do, should be accepted as such.
ParlaMint-BA_2010-03-24-0.u34080	Thank you. The next is the distinguished representative Azra Alajbegović.
ParlaMint-BA_2010-03-24-0.u34081	Dear Chairman, colleagues and colleagues. 88 I'll try to be very brief. I actually think that accepting the Srebrenica Resolution, as both the Council of Europe and the European Parliament did, would be, in fact, a good material in some way that the lives of BiH citizens from this last war in '92. - '95. They are not the basis for the so-called. The phenomenon of transgenerational transmission of trauma, as we have, here, from World War II which we have had the opportunity to hear of Mr. Jovičić on several occasions and in some ways, the adoption of such a resolution would mean an end to the possibility that from generation to generation we would be carrying something that would certainly bring psychic trauma, not only to us but also to our generations in the future. It's a sociological phenomenon known in the world, it's called transgenerational trauma transfer, and I don't think we should give this kind of trauma to future generations and generations of our children, or, if they already have, that the bar in its quantity should be smaller, and, of course, in quality, it would certainly be significantly reduced.
ParlaMint-BA_2010-03-24-0.u34082	Thank you. No more reports. All those who intend to propose possible corrections in the text of the Resolution, I would ask them to deliver it in writing. Here's the replica, the esteemed representative Denis Bećirović.
ParlaMint-BA_2010-03-24-0.u34083	Since we are probably at the end of the discussion on this agenda, I was going to say a lot of things about what Mr. Jovičić was talking about first, however, I have given up any comment at this point here as we discuss. There aren't any SDS MPs in the O.R. I can see that neither SNSD nor any of the main people representing this club wanted to discuss it. Why is Mr. Jovičić out on his own to give grades like this, that's another question. Maybe it's better if I don't pay more attention to him, too, except that one normal fact needs to be repeated that anyone who has this text of Resolution could see. Well, the first sentence says that this resolution honors itself, and here it says, to all the victims, and every member is told about all the victims. When we say, I guess to all the victims, we think of all the victims of all the peoples. This resolution was not dedicated to a nation. And what, when you write that too, people say again something completely different that doesn't say and there's no help. In his part of the discussion, Mr Izetbegović also talked about certain lessons. Along the way, I'm just saying that after the procedure, this has passed a lecturing procedure here at the BiH Parliamentary Assembly and I liked that it has put a slightly larger accent on the essential messages in this resolution, on their importance and need for their adoption than on these petty things, which, I say, have passed a complete procedure including there, so that there is no confusion. This is such a serious subject that we need to speak to the end precisely. And that's why I tried to put every single thing I said to the end. For the sake of truth, for the sake of a stenogram, and this parliament should be said that it is not true what some people have said, that so far there has been some resolution here about Srebrenica. So far, I have here all 89 stenograms prepared, was, after the adoption of the European Parliament resolution, the conclusion of Mr Ahmetović and also my one conclusion, but the conclusion that we support that resolution. Exactly this is the only thing Ajanović said was that it was the Law on the Prohibition of Genocide, Minimising, etc. The text of a special resolution and declaration has never been to the BiH Parliamentary Assembly. That's a fact. It's very important to say that this text of Resolution, and I have to say that here to all those present, was built together with the club that proposed this and assembled all the genocide victims' associations, all of them. And she also stands behind this text. And if you ask me what's most important, the most important thing is that these victims are behind this text. About what's depressing about all this, it would be good if we didn't open the topic. And I have to say, it's been depressing 15 years from Dejton to this day.
ParlaMint-BA_2010-03-24-0.u34084	Time.
ParlaMint-BA_2010-03-24-0.u34085	Every year since '95. To this day, promises to people, announcements, etc., and every year new disappointments, new failed promises in these people. For this reason, I would like to conclude and suggest one conclusion to you.
ParlaMint-BA_2010-03-24-0.u34086	You don't have to propose to Dom.
ParlaMint-BA_2010-03-24-0.u34087	I think this could be an acceptable conclusion for everyone, and he's very simple. I think, if there is a desire to conclude this resolution, that we are considering it today in the first reading, and if there is political will and willingness to leave all clubs to submit their proposals and amendments to this text, we will seriously discuss them all together and then in the second reading we will come to the text of the resolution behind which we will all stand.
ParlaMint-BA_2010-03-24-0.u34088	Thank you. Anything you have to write down, submit, and the House will declare itself on every proposal. Next line, Slavko Jovičić.
ParlaMint-BA_2010-03-24-0.u34089	Thank you, Mr. Chairman. 90 Dear fellow Bećirović, you do not have to attach any importance to me, I give you great importance. Furthermore, there are no SNSD chiefs. Who were you thinking of? I guess some of them from Banja Luka, who, who were you thinking of? Here I am your main me, Kalabić, this order and what you see. I don't know who's in charge. So we press the buttons on something for and against. Secondly, people I don't know, you may not understand me, but are you following Mr. Ganić's case? He is not yet a man charged, nor brought to trial, all RS, the Serb people on their feet that he is a criminal. It's all Sarajevo, the Bosniak people on their feet that he's a hero. One case that is harmless, which has nothing to do with this resolution, which is minor to this text, to this name. I can't really realize that you can't understand that we can't support this in a way... I understand when Mr Bećirović says that the resolution says condemns everyone's suffering. But, Mr. Bećirović, someone here knows how to read. As soon as you mentioned Srebrenica, all the other texts fell into the water. All the sequels fell. Each one of them fell victim. She got lost in that name just one name, you know. When I was in Congress American, they didn't know where BiH was. There's no connection to what continent it's on. When they asked me what city you were from, I said pasti, and, pasti, OK, I guess I heard about Mladić and Karadžić. They know where the Falles are, and they don't know where BiH is. That's the way it is, Mr. Bećirović. Don't convince us, it's not possible, it's not time. Why don't you understand? Here we understand you and it's legitimate that you suggest it. But it can't be supported by Srbin. We won't, people, contribute anything to this reconciliation as it stands in the name. It's not gonna happen. It's just gonna be a worse situation. And I gave you an example of Mr. Ganić. So, if you follow, do you read the paper, do you see what's going on? You're all watching. The whole republic is on its feet that Ganić should be sent to Belgrade immediately today. All of Sarajevo, the Bosniak people need him back here in Sarajevo and let go of the hero. You'll see when he comes to be welcomed as a hero. So, one case that has nothing to do with this. This is something special. He caused huge damage to BiH, and then various reactions, and political, of course, began. I don't know what I was holding back, and I was supposed to do something in that crowd, so you can see that. 'Cause when the pot's nice, the fire's lit, you just have to add a little more fire and burn everything. But I don't want this country to burn. I want peace here, of course, to live. And it's not demagogy, I'm not investing in anyone. But, people, believe me, it's not the time, and I don't know if it's ever going to be that way, practically, we're forcing me so that tomorrow you have the chance to have all the possible associations that you've listed, I'm not contesting... Is there any Srbin representative association that you have consulted them? There are none, Mr Bećirović, nor will they give you support and your proposal. There is no such association. And then it's not possible to come to a compromise as you stand, and so do I. It's not possible. It's about time, Mr. Bećirović, four minutes, but here, I'll cut it short. Thank you.
ParlaMint-BA_2010-03-24-0.u34090	Thank you. Before I give the next speaker a word, just to quote the provisions of the Rules of Procedure which say that each Rules of Procedure (?) may submit a motion for a resolution. The motion for a resolution is under consideration at the House session, unless the House decides it is necessary to consider it first. 91 We have done so, it has been considered previously by the Commission and we are now considering the motion for a resolution after the Commission has considered it. The promoter receives a 20-minute word, while all the other participants in the debate can receive a word of up to 10 minutes. Amendments to the proposed resolution shall be submitted in writing at any time of the sitting. The chairman may conclude the debate when the question is sufficiently clarified, in his opinion. When the debate is concluded, the proposed resolution shall be voted upon. So, what I have already said several times, I invite you all who have any suggestions, remarks, suggestions, amendments to the motion for a resolution, to deliver it to me so that we can make that clear. Replica, the esteemed representative Bakir Izetbegović.
ParlaMint-BA_2010-03-24-0.u34091	So, Mr Bećirović, it was a normal text of the resolution, which is a comprehensive and complete text adopted in the EU, in the EU Parliament. So we wanted that identical text here to adopt. And being the victims behind the text of this resolution is a good thing, but they need help to have a stylish and lecturing good text, Denise. I mean, they deserve it, this thing deserves it. I'll tell you two again, only three things again. So it is called the Resolution on the importance of condemning genocide in Srebrenica, war crimes in BiH to build lasting peace. Or that BiH, in its education system, says that the education system is based on education in accordance with its detestation towards... I mean, this resolution deserves better text, better text done. If your conclusion is adopted to delay today, in which case, I, here, suggest that the plea be postponed. Because the resolution deserves to be declared by a number of people. Here, indeed, few people from the RS have. I have the right to make such a proposal to postpone the plea. If I get a chance to act amendmentally or correctively, I'll be happy to write these things back to you.
ParlaMint-BA_2010-03-24-0.u34092	Thank you. Replica, a respected representative of Azra Hadžiahmetović.
ParlaMint-BA_2010-03-24-0.u34093	Thank you, Chairman. I just wanted to remind you, I greatly appreciate your frequent reminder of the Rules of Procedure, that we all treat ourselves, however, to which we are able and which we are not. However, there is something, I also respected the proponents' arguments to possibly delay the debate, i.e., not just a statement at all, but a debate on this agenda point. So, I understand everything. But one thing I don't understand is that we who are here at 18.20 p.m., the second day of hard work here, in some way, arguments for a delay or any of our actions are among our colleagues and colleagues, with full respect for those who are officially 92 absent, who left today's session because something else was more important to them. I will indeed apologize, but I would not treat such ones. I appreciate the absence of colleagues from Živković, colleagues from Belkić, I know that my colleagues Jukić, Bahtić and Lazo have also been on the official trip, but why should I... I haven't seen Jerko Lijanović for a month. I mean, I'm sorry, but, look, I happen to mention it. My colleague Sefer was here, he's gone, my colleague Dolić was here, he's gone, SDS is gone. I mean, to whom do we contribute, who didn't think... I respect other reasons and other arguments that could possibly be determined. But, please, to reduce the importance and value, not to say the legitimacy and legality of what we are deciding here, which is less important information about the Vc corridor or, I don't know, what is one point more important than the other for this Parliament and for all those who have a lot of right to decide here? I'm only saying this for one reason, that for a little while, I appreciate the absence of the officially absent, but if two members of the College thought that we could continue the session without their present presence, why are we devalued here ourselves? I'm sorry, this is the only way I had to respond to the suggestions, so there would be a little more MPs for which we don't even know why they left. After all, they may have had the right to leave, each of them making his own commitment. But why should he treat them...? I'm sorry, I had to react. Thank you.
ParlaMint-BA_2010-03-24-0.u34094	Thank you. Dear Representative Husein Nanić, replica.
ParlaMint-BA_2010-03-24-0.u34095	Just one sentence at the Azra exhibit. Unfortunately, the 74th session will show that these people were present at the session because they were registered in the morning, etc. That's our records.
ParlaMint-BA_2010-03-24-0.u34096	Thank you. I have nothing to add, I agree absolutely with your grades. Dear Representative Mirjana Malić.
ParlaMint-BA_2010-03-24-0.u34097	Dear Chairman, colleagues and colleagues. I deliberately pressed the application item, not the replicas, because I really have no intention of replicating anyone, I just wanted to remind myself that despite the known content of the Rules of Procedure and the SDP Club precisely because of the well-intentioned suggestions of colleagues who have discussed the proposed text of Resolution quite relevant today, we suggest, therefore, that there be an improvement in the text, regardless of the language correction and in our lecturer service, some messages may be more precisely defined. 93 In this sense there was a proposal and the author of the initiative to consider today's resolution, that we could turn this into a first reading today, to give colleagues and clubs the chance to, in this sense, make profiling even more precise text. In that sense, I wanted to make a proposal for a conclusion. But if you really claim that we have to do this tonight, then I ask that all colleagues at least try to intervene tonight to strictly respect the Rules of Procedure, although it is indeed my appeal to both the chairman and colleagues to try to make a statement so that, even if those who have a good will to participate in the creation of this text, we give them a chance to participate. Thank you.
ParlaMint-BA_2010-03-24-0.u34098	I must remind you of what I said when I opened this agenda point. Representative Denis Bećirović delivered this resolution in parliamentary procedure earlier than 21 days ago. We at the House once declared that we were going to refer her to the commission phase, everyone was involved in it. She was on the committee. She came from the commission. We had it, and as far as I'm concerned, we can put every proposal on the stand, but it's clear to you and me, I didn't want to convince anyone individually or to call or accept or accept the resolution. If anyone accepts the resolution, they will accept it today, if they will not accept it, they will not accept it in seven days. So if we just didn't burden ourselves, I don't know, if I didn't say some difficult term, I wouldn't like to, here we are, a little longer in these discussions, so a little concentration falls. So, we're going to put the proposals, I've already told the Expansive College that it's possible, here, we have a proposal for one MP to postpone the resolution statement, we're going to put it on the agenda, or we're going to make a decision, and we're going to see what the House will say about that proposal. There's no problem. By the time we enter the plea, we will agree, once we have finished all the points of the agenda, when we declare ourselves. So there's time and opportunity. What I heard in the debate here, there are no too demanding interventions here, so to speak. If he wants to intervene, you can all deliver the interventions, we will plead, if he needs a little longer rest until the plea, we can do anything. So let's really try to make this point easier, I'll say this, at the very least, with dignity, not to comment further. Dear Representative Denis Bećirović, replica.
ParlaMint-BA_2010-03-24-0.u34099	I just want to tell my colleague Izetbegović that there is no text of resolution that one can make, and that at the same time some of the MPs here, especially from the more experienced MPs, change every word to something a little different. And here, I remind you, is the point. On the case, in the Parliament of the Republic of Serbia, three years ago, I just found this document in preparation of this, MPs, therefore, in the Serbian Parliament, Žarko Korač, Čedomir Jovanović, Nataša Mičić, not to pick them up further, have suggested, quote, "The Declaration on the obligations of the state authorities of the Republic of Serbia in fulfilling the decisions of the International Court of Justice". These people in the Serbian Parliament in Belgrade have also delivered one whole text of their vision of the declaration. In that declaration, they have had the strength to use this term "breathing" in Belgrade. I do not see any reason, and I agree with my colleague that it is always possible to find another 94 words, that in Sarajevo, here in the BiH Parliament, we cannot use the word "detestation". Also, this session will end, I will not understand why my colleague Izetbegović did not accept the recommendation, and mine and some other colleagues, both before the College and after the College, to wait, given that the Republic of Serbia is discussing a similar issue, she has a duty to the International Court of Justice to state her position on this, and that in BiH, we do not have an international obligation to make it, but we have a moral commitment to such a resolution, to see what will be done in the neighbouring state because it is their international obligation. Unfortunately, counterpart Izetbegović insisted that we should do so today at all costs and perhaps prejudge some of the things that will happen in Serbia.
ParlaMint-BA_2010-03-24-0.u34100	Replica, I'll give myself a replica first. I'm trying to really control myself, I'm going to try to bring this one calmness to you, I guess I didn't make it, I admit my failure. I must say, dear fellow Bećirović, my impression, means that you are constantly trying to support those who would, even if the imperfect resolution were to be supported, make sure you don't. There, I have to say. My impression is that you keep trying. Look, however this text of Resolution goes, here, I'll tell you very openly, I'll give my vote for this resolution, whether it goes or not, I don't know. But that's my resolution. If we accept her, she'll be the resolution of this house. It will not be owned by Denis Bećirović, Niko Lozančić, or Bakir Izetbegović, but rather by this parliament. And let's figure it out. Don't try and convince those of us who intend to support us, that we don't accept. So, here, you don't have any more replicas, I'm abuser now, because I know you don't have any more replicas and you won't convince us that we don't accept this anymore. So, I'll accept, I know that the HDZ BiH Club will also accept this resolution, and everyone else, whatever they estimate, it's part of their decisions and I don't mean to clear anyone's mind here. I think sometimes if there were any suggestions not to explain, there'd be more chances they'd pass. Dear Representative Bakir Izetbegović, replica.
ParlaMint-BA_2010-03-24-0.u34101	I'm going to give up on everyone for a little while. Denise, here, I give up, keep the text like this, let it stand that war crimes in BiH for the construction of permanent peace, as remains such a formulation. Let's leave the crime of war propaganda that you don't have prescribed in Criminal Law. Let it remain that children should be brought up according to detestation. Bujrum. You like it that way. Here, I'm giving up my remarks. As for Serbia, you know well the last month, two days, that's where their resolution is being prepared. You know that one word has been attached, whether genocide or war crimes will be mentioned. So why did you give this resolution now, if you care about that one passing by? Why did you do that now? In the past month, it has been very current in Serbia. Why are you spending this topic like this? This important and painful topic.
ParlaMint-BA_2010-03-24-0.u34102	Dear Representative Šefik Džaferović, replica.
ParlaMint-BA_2010-03-24-0.u34103	Mr. Chairman, colleagues and colleagues, ladies and gentlemen. I don't need to spend a lot of words saying how important this is for BiH, for our sakes and for our country's overall relations. And that's why I call on all of us to support the text of this resolution, no matter who the promoter is here. I especially appeal to those who have so far declared not to vote in favour of this document. I think it is in their interest and in the interest of all of us in BiH to support this document. As far as I'm concerned, this is what I wanted to say in this one minute, the replica will not pass the total duration, the replica is the reaction, in fact, to Mr. Denis Bećirović's final statement. I have a feeling that in that act, he's trying, for a possible failure, except for those who will vote against, accused and some who will vote for. It's my feeling, and I'm really sorry about that. I am a representative who works in this Parliament every day, from 7:30 in the morning, and I don't know how much at night, but I didn't propose such a document, and I wouldn't suggest it without broad parliamentary support, and not just one political party, this is a strategic document for the state. But a colleague thought he should do it, he did it, and it's legitimate, and I'll support it. But I would ask him then, when one of us stands up and delivers his opinion on the document, especially when it's someone from the U.S.A., who sits here all the time today, and especially when it's the president of the club and the U.S.A., to take it extremely well on purpose. If there is anyone, and there are many of us in BiH who are interested in adopting this resolution at last in the BiH Parliament, then it is quite certain. That's it, thank you.
ParlaMint-BA_2010-03-24-0.u34104	Thank you. Replica, distinguished representative Selim Bešlagić.
ParlaMint-BA_2010-03-24-0.u34105	I didn't mean to replicate, but I just want to say that this topic isn't about spending, it's the truth that needs to come to light, and in that sense, let me just say a few words. There is one prayer with us Bošnjak – my gospodar, teach me that tolerance is the highest degree of power, and desire for revenge is the first sign of weakness. And one more part of that prayer, my Lord, when someone offends me, grant me the power of forgiveness, when I offend others, grant me the power of apology. We apologize to everyone we've offended. But we have to say that 96 are asking that, truth, what Mr. Jovičić said, from World War II, from World War I, from I don't know what, is opening up. And this is the truth about which, without distinction today we will adopt or not adopt, we will seek... It's just that there's still a verdict, that's how it is. And for these reasons, here, once again, all that we have offended, I beg forgiveness, and those who have offended me, hallowed them either. Halal's anything they've offended the SDP. Because this is the Parliament where we present things, just don't be offended. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-BA_2010-03-24-0.u34106	Thank you. I don't have any more logs. I'm closing the debate. We're moving to the seventh item of the Ad agenda. Seven. A statement on the BiH Sefer Halilović's initiative from the 71st session of the House of Representatives, held in 3.2.2010, which reads: The BiH Parliamentary Assembly's House of Representatives asks the BiH Council to provide complete information on the state of the BiH Armed Forces, which in 2010 brings out the contract and the proposed solutions to this issue to discuss this important issue and to make decisions at the next House session At the 71st House session, MP Sefer Halilović addressed the doma's Kolegijum to this initiative. The Joint Commission for Defence and Security submitted its opinion on the initiative supported and partially reformed, to which the applicant also agreed, and proposed to the House to accept it, and to discuss it after the delivery of the complete information. Here, I'm obliged to open up the information, but I don't think it's... we're just making a statement about the initiative. I'm closing the debate. Now I'm asking you how long it takes you to take a break before the plea. So, at 6:45, we start with a statement on the agenda. [[PAUZA]]
ParlaMint-BA_2010-03-24-0.u34110	No microphone turned on
ParlaMint-BA_2010-03-24-0.u34111	He's pulling. Thank you. We move on to a statement on point 7. – A statement on the BiH Sefer Halilović's initiative from the 71st session of the House of Representatives, held on 3 February 2010, which reads: "The House of Representatives of the BiH Parliamentary Assembly requires the BiH Council of Ministers to provide complete information on the situation of members of the Armed Forces of BiH, to which the contract and the proposed resolutions of this issue expire in 2010 in order to hold a debate on this important issue and to make decisions at the next House session." We are voting on the adoption or failure of the Initiative. Stand by for a statement and vote now. 24 votes in favour, no votes against and abstentions. I find the Initiative accepted. Before, please, just a little attention, we conclude today's session, noting that the 75th session of the House is scheduled for 7.4.2010 and that you adjust your obligations to this term. May I have your attention, please? A little while ago in the Expansive College, I said the session was over when the president said it was over, and I haven't said it yet. And I'm asking for patience a little bit. Since this House will not meet before 7.4., I am using this opportunity to celebrate the holiday of Easter for all believers in the coming period, to wish for a happy and blessed Easter and to spend it in peace, health, with their loved ones and with their neighbors and with all people of good faith. 100 I hereby conclude the 74th session of the House. The session is closed at 19.00 hours.
