ParlaMint-BA_2010-07-13-0.u8037	Ladies and gentlemen, honored colleagues and fellow delegates, respected representatives of the Council of Ministers, the international community, respected media representatives, I warmly welcome you and open the 48th session of the House of Peoples of the Parliamentary Assembly of BiH. There are 13 delegates present at the session, four of them in the Bosniak order, five in the order of the Croatian and four in the order of the Serb people. Mr. Hilmo Neimarlija and Mladen Ivanić are justly absent and have announced that they are prevented from attending today's session. For the 48th session, I suggest the next 1. Answers to delegates' questions and delegates' questions; 2. The adoption of the minutes of the 47th session of the House of Peoples; 3. Proposal for a law on the application of the results of deoxyribonucleic acid analysis in court proceedings, with the report of the Constitutional Legal Commission of the House of Nations (second reading) – Proposer of the Council of Ministers of BiH; 4. Proposal for a Law on Amendments and Supplements to the Labour Act in the Institutions of Bosnia and Herzegovina (second reading) – Proposer of the Council of Ministers of BiH; 5. Proposal for a Law on Copyright and Related Rights (second reading) – Proposer of the Council of Ministers of BiH; 6. Proposal for a Law on collective exercise of copyright and related rights (second reading) – Proposer of the Council of Ministers of BiH; 7. Proposal for a Law amending the Law on Public Procurement of Bosnia and Herzegovina (second reading) – Proposer of the House of Representatives; 8. Proposal for a strategy for sports development in Bosnia and Herzegovina (second reading) – Proposer of the Council of Ministers of BiH; 9. Proposal for a Framework Law on Free Legal Assistance (First Reading) – Proposer of the Council of Ministers of BiH; 10. Proposal for a Law amending the Law on Administrative Disputes of Bosnia and Herzegovina (first reading) – Proposer of the Council of Ministers of BiH; 11. Proposal for a law supplementing the Service Act in the Armed Forces of Bosnia and Herzegovina (first reading) – Proposer of the House of Representatives; 12. Proposal for a law on censuses, households and apartments in Bosnia and Herzegovina 2011 (first reading) – Proposer of the House of Representatives; 13. Annual report by the High Court and Prosecutorial Council of Bosnia and Herzegovina for 2009; 2 14. Report on the implementation of the law in the jurisdiction of the Central Election Commission of Bosnia and Herzegovina for 2009; 15. Report on the work of the Commission for concessions in Bosnia and Herzegovina for 2009; 16. Report on the circumstances relating to the issue of CEMT licences for 2009 to carriers in Bosnia and Herzegovina – Research Commission for Determination of Circumstances in 2009 to carriers in Bosnia and Herzegovina; 17. Appointment of representatives of the academic community and the NGO in the Commission for the selection and monitoring of the Agency for the Prevention of Corruption and Co-ordination of the fight against corruption (Proposed list of candidates of the Interim Joint Commission of both homes); 18. Proposal for the appointment of Ante Matić as member of the Bosnia and Herzegovina concessions commission from the Federation of Bosnia and Herzegovina; 19. Giving consent to the ratification of the loan agreement between Bosnia and Herzegovina and the OPEC Fund for International Development – A project to improve living conditions in the country; 20. Giving consent to ratification of the Convention on the Centre for Law Implementation in South East Europe; 21. Giving consent to ratification of the Treaty between Bosnia and Herzegovina and the Kingdom of Spain on the avoidance of double taxation and the prevention of fiscal evasion in relation to income and property taxes; 22. Giving consent to ratification of the Credit Line Guarantee Treaty to the Bosnia and Herzegovina Deposit Insurance Agency between Bosnia and Herzegovina and the European Bank for Reconstruction and Development. This is a harmonised draft agenda of the House of People's Colleges. Is anyone answering for a word? Is there any proposal to amend and supplement the agenda? If no one is answering for a word, I'm realizing that we've adopted the agenda and we're moving to the 1st point of the agenda. Ad. 1. Answers to Legislative Questions and New Legislative Questions
ParlaMint-BA_2010-07-13-0.u8040	Mr. Chairman, distinguished colleagues, respected representatives of information funds, dear guests, so today is the 48th session, and I have received an answer to the delegate's question I asked at the 29th session. So a year and a half ago I asked this question and here it took about 17-18 months for me to get an answer to a quite ordinary question about the reconstruction of the border crossing in Ivanica that was very easy and elegantly available for about 10 days. So I am absolutely dissatisfied with the fact that in response to the Council of Ministers says that the state commission dealing with this problem has not yet solved this problem and that its resolution is ongoing. And I think this is a real shame because this work by the BiH State Commission lost 3.5m euros in donations from the European Commission that planned, singled out, provided funds for the border crossing and, unfortunately, what happened happened. So BiH was left without the funds. I am responsible for saying that the authorities of the Municipality of Ravna, together with the authorities of Croatia, are all working to move the border crossing, located at the present location, something deeper into the interior than its current position. And of course, the famous Commission for Borders, which as a reward for its work, received what we voted in last session, which is that it has become a permanent commission from the temporary commission. So, it's really sad and I think this commission is doing extremely badly and, responsibly, I'm going to say, in this case it's working on BiH's damage. Thank you.
ParlaMint-BA_2010-07-13-0.u8041	Thank you very much. Delegate Božo Ljubić. Here you go.
ParlaMint-BA_2010-07-13-0.u8042	Mr. Chairman, colleagues and fellow MPs, I cannot say that I am dissatisfied with the answer, but I am dissatisfied with the situation. I am asking this question, which is very short, so whether it is formed and if it is not at what stage the 'Paid Agency' is formed by the Ministry of Foreign Trade and Economic Relations of BiH, which should be founded in accordance with Article 95. Stabilisation and Association Agreements. However, I did not ask the question to satisfy my curiosity but to actually encourage the resolution of this problem, the formation of that agency that was our obligation under this agreement, and I got an answer that depicts an objective state which, I think, we cannot be satisfied with. Obviously she wasn't formed because there are disagreements at the level of two entities, so they made it clear... It is said, on the one hand, that representatives of the RS believe it is necessary to organise a payment system so that entities have private paying agencies, which is in line with the BiH Constitution and laws, while on the other hand representatives of the Federation of BiH are of the opinion that all functions should be centralised at the state level, which is already seen a scenario on other issues. The ministry is making every effort to reach a solution, taking into account all the above. So, we have once again one situation that we have already seen, so we all suffer damage together, and states, and entities and most citizens because this agency is not founded. And I can only say that, here, if this issue is going to be an incentive to the State Department of Foreign Trade and Economic Relations and responsible bodies in entities to find a solution in haste. After all, not only is our commitment, but our economy suffers because these agencies are gone. So... with an answer, I say, I can't say I'm not satisfied because he paints an objective condition, but I'm not satisfied with the state. Thank you.
ParlaMint-BA_2010-07-13-0.u8043	Thank you very much. Any new delegate questions? Mr. Slobodan Šarba. Here you go.
ParlaMint-BA_2010-07-13-0.u8044	Thank you, Mr. Chairman. So I refer my delegate question to the Ministry of Foreign Trade and Economic Relations. So, according to the data I received from the 8th to 12th months 2008, 506 mortars, 82mm, 24.8th, 30.9th, 2.10th, 24.10th and 12.12.2008, were exported from BiH through the Klebuk border crossing to Montenegro and further to Luke Bar, at least that's how it is on paper. The exporter is BNT from Novi Travnik, the buyer of AD International LTD Tortal from the British Virgin Islands, the country of Afghanistan's destination. From 16 to 18.4.2010, 22 trucks with over 2.5 million bullets were exported the same way over the Klebuk border crossing, same as Luke Bar. The buyer is Limasoli from Cyprus, land of Yemen's destination. All the papers for these jobs have been issued by the Ministry of Foreign Trade and Economic Relations. I have two questions: 'Are these jobs done in accordance with the applicable legal rules and why are all the jobs of this kind done across the Klobuk border crossing? Why are you going to Luke Bar and why aren't you using our Luka ploča for all these jobs?" Thank you.
ParlaMint-BA_2010-07-13-0.u8045	Thank you very much. Who's next to the word? Adem Ibrahimpašić. Here you go.
ParlaMint-BA_2010-07-13-0.u8046	Thank you, Chairman. I welcome all present. I'm not going to ask a new question, I'm going to do it so I don't pass my mandate without getting an answer to what I asked at the 46th session, and everyone gets answers, so I urge them to do it by the next session, because then I'm afraid it'll be too late. It is about signing an agreement with Croatia and Serbia on mutual recognition of the goods quality certificate. At a joint session in February, a representative of the ministry informed us that it was done in March, however, there is nothing, we have the same problems at the border as before. 5 Thank you.
ParlaMint-BA_2010-07-13-0.u8047	Thank you very much. If no one answers their word anymore, I'll conclude the first item of the agenda. Moving to point two, Ad. 2. The adoption of the minutes of the 47th session of the House of Peoples Is anyone answering for a word? Mrs. Majkić, please.
ParlaMint-BA_2010-07-13-0.u8049	On page 4, professional services themselves have judged where this issue should be cut off. So, please professional services to the complete question of how I put in the proposal for this report. So that's an observation one, because from what's written here you can't even figure out what it's about.
ParlaMint-BA_2010-07-13-0.u8050	Okay. Are there any other objections to the 47th session of the House of Peoples? Here, you heard Mrs. Majkić's remark. The whole question should be brought in, now the arguments don't have to, but the question has to be. Can we adopt this record with this one correction? Who Is For? Who Is “against ”? There isn't. "Contained"? Also, there isn't. I find the Book of the 47th Session of the House of Peoples adopted with this amendment. Moving to the 3rd point of the agenda: Ad. 3. Proposal for a law on the application of the results of analysis of deoxyribonucleic acid in court proceedings, with Report of the Constitutional Legal Commission of the House of Nations (second reading) You've received a report from the Constitutional Legal Commission. The Commission did not accept the draft law. The House of Representatives passed this law with 18 amendments. In accordance with Article 106. Rules of Procedure 6 of the House of Peoples, the House declares the commission's report after it has been given an explanation by the rapporteur. I give my word to the chairman of the Constitutional Commission, Mr. Ivo Miri Jović. Here you go. Ivo Miro
ParlaMint-BA_2010-07-13-0.u8052	Thank you very much, Mr. President. I welcome you, co-chairs, distinguished colleagues, ministers from the Council of Ministers and all present today's session of our home. The Constitutional Commission held a meeting and had a agenda item on the draft law on the application of DNA analysis results in court proceedings. We had amendments from Mr. Hazim Rančić, Slobodan Šaraba and Ivo Mire Jović. No amendment has been passed, or has been given the necessary majority, and after I have been given it, as chairman of this committee, two "against", two "for" and one "abstained" voted for the adoption of this law, so that the law has not passed and no amendment has been adopted, and I believe that this was the reason that the envoys proposed and considered that without the amendments adopted, the law would not be complete.
ParlaMint-BA_2010-07-13-0.u8053	Thank you very much. If the House accepts the Commission's report, the proposed law shall be considered rejected. If the House does not accept the Commission's report, it may request the competent commission to draw up a new report based on new guidelines set by the House and within the time limit set by the House. Here I am opening the debate. Who's answering for a word? Delegate Zoran Koprivica. Here you go.
ParlaMint-BA_2010-07-13-0.u8054	Thank you, Mr. Chairman. Also, I welcome everyone present today's session. As a member of the Constitutional Legal Commission, I was present at this session today, and here we have heard from the chairman of this committee... and in fact we see a report from the Commission that is negative. I think it would be a shame if the law, which has already been in procedures for half a year, had already been adopted with 18 amendments in the House of Representatives, had just been found in the car. I think at today's session, I would do it this time, and I suggest that this negative report... The Constitutional Commissions return to this commission, do not accept this report and return to the decision-making process, in order to suggest that, in order to pass the law, they propose to the Constitutional Commission that they are primarily managed by those amendments that are agreed at the House of Representatives after half a year, so that we are in a position to adopt this law in the same text without any consent and at the House of Peoples. That's it, thank you.
ParlaMint-BA_2010-07-13-0.u8055	Thank you very much. 7 Mr. Hazim Rančić. Here you go.
ParlaMint-BA_2010-07-13-0.u8056	Thank you very much, Your Honor. Dear colleagues and colleagues, representatives of the Council of Ministers, respected guests, therefore, it is true that as a reason for a negative report by the Constitutional Commission under this law that no very important amendments have been adopted without which this law would not be complete, it would have no meaning and purpose and question the functioning of the Agency for Forensics, as well as the application of this law, and its essence is the application of DNA analysis in court proceedings. So, the minimum necessary to install into this law is this amendment by Ivo Mire Jović, which solves one of the shortcomings in this law, and it concerns the transfer of equipment from the European Commission Delegation to the Ministry of Security and to the State Agency for Forensics, the transfer of equipment purchased and without which there is no functioning, so there is no DNA analysis, which is carried out in one of the police agencies. Therefore, the transfer of that property and these additional equipment, the takeover of officials certified to carry out these operations, as there is no DNA analysis without the appropriate equipment and no DNA analysis without authorised certified officials. And the procedure that this will be resolved through memoranda and in the co-operation of the Ministry of Security and the Agency for Forensics and Competent Police Authorities, as well as the procedure of further work, so the conduct of DNA analysis under the existing Regulation until this law begins to apply and a number of sublegal acts before that. Unfortunately, the current law stipulates that it ceases to apply the existing Regulation on how to collect and collect biological materials for the purposes of analysis of deoxyribonucleic acid in a criminal procedure published in the "Official Messenger of BiH", issue 35/07. This would mean a complete termination of the DNA analysis until this agency was able to carry out these analyses, i.e. for the application of this law, and we know that this would be disastrously related to certain court proceedings. Also, as a condition for the passage and application of this law, I have submitted amendments that were adopted in most parts at the House of Representatives, and I have modified a smaller number. One of the amendments is Amendment XII. as regards Article 28(2), which prescribes that DNA profiles with identification data from the DNA register shall be removed after 15 years after the date of collection of the DNA samples, unless the identity of the missing person, i.e. the identity of the corpse, is determined within that period. The amendment extended this deadline at the House of Representatives to 25 years, and my amendment says these DNA profiles would be kept permanently. Why? At least for two reasons. First, if the identity of the missing person, i.e. the identity of the corpse, is not determined by the expiry of a certain period of family missing, killed, which is the most related to war crimes and genocide in BiH, we need to retaliate, once a particular corpse is found or a certain tomb is opened, that they re-supply their tissue to determine the identity of such persons. And should we once again question judicial proceedings in these acts that do not go out of date if these DNA profiles are destroyed and these persons are not identified? Is it logical that the identity of convicted persons is kept for 40 years, and that these identities and DNA profiles of persons related to war crimes and genocide are destroyed in an attempt of 15 years, so here it is now increased to 25 years. Of course those things don't make sense. Furthermore, the conditions of adoption and application of this law are an amendment relating to Article 32. The law states: 'The entry into force of this law shall cease to apply the provisions of the Regulation on the method of collecting and taking biological material for the purposes of analysis of deoxyribonucleic acid in the 2007 criminal procedure. 'years.' That means if we adopted this law today and it was 8 published and entered into force eight days after the announcement, we would completely lose the ability to carry out this DNA analysis in accordance with the rule that is in force. Why? Because after the entry of this law, vaccio legis was prescribed by 30. 6. It is necessary to bring a number of sublegal acts and to train this agency with both equipment and with people and to certify them in order to only then be able to carry out DNA analysis. Therefore, this member must be changed in a way that the words 'degrees in force' change the words 'on the day of application'. And in the next Article 33, it is prescribed that this law enters into force on the eighth day from the day of its publication in the ‘Official Messenger’ and will apply from 30.6.2010. Today is the 13th of July, we have not passed the law, so after adoption there may be a consensus, so that publication, and only after that, should the vaccio legis be determined for a long period of time, is it three, six, nine months, so that this agency, in co-operation with the ministry, is prepared to carry out these DNA analyses, take over equipment, the people, and then the law can be applied. This law is not applicable. So these are the necessary things to do, to adopt these amendments, and that's the only way we can apply the law. Otherwise, this doesn't make sense. Thank you.
ParlaMint-BA_2010-07-13-0.u8057	Thank you very much. Is anyone else answering for word? Brano zrno, come in.
ParlaMint-BA_2010-07-13-0.u8058	Thank you very much, Mr. Chairman. Here, now we hear and greet, of course, all present colleagues and colleagues, all others. Now we've heard an expert analysis, although it seems to me that we need first to solve this technical issue, means procedural nature, here's the state we're in right now. I also suggest that we not accept the Commission's report, return this by handling the need to pass this law. My people, we already have a forensics agency, without this law, that agency has nothing to do. Secondly, we forgot the fact that this law has passed a very high-quality procedure. This law was held in public debate and at the highest level all the articles of this law have been discussed, which does not mean that the law in this procedure should not and should be experienced, in accordance with what counterpart Hazim said, certain changes. And I would ask the members of our committee to really agree at a renewed stage in this commission, even if it goes to a consensus and with that home, to agree on the views and to get this law. So now we don't have to open the law story, open the story, here's the story of the procedure and close the story of the procedure, return the law to them and ask them to agree and deliver a positive opinion on this law. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-BA_2010-07-13-0.u8059	Thank you very much. 9 Mrs. Majkić answered the question. Here you go.
ParlaMint-BA_2010-07-13-0.u8060	Your Honor, I want to say what our position is. So, six months was a very long deadline that was conducted at the approval of this law. In the meantime, a letter came from Mr. Kurkulas and probably from there the amendments Mr. Jović wrote came in. Our letter, which is destructive to Parliament, in which Mr. Kurkulas asks that the law be withdrawn, does not have a letter for us, does not constitute any obligation. So we have been very patiently waiting for all the institutions involved in harmonising this law to be made known according to each of the amendments that have arrived. And finally, after all the troubles and all the troubles that followed this bill managed to agree, at least, it needed a level that provided for the law to pass in the House of Representatives. To reopen new alignments and questions now is not acceptable to us. So we should send a message from this home to this committee what to do to get her to agree. Here, I say, I speak on behalf of the Serbian People's Club that we are not in favour of this alignment and that we have agreed with everything that has already been contained in the amendments that the House of Representatives has verified. So, I just expect someone to tell you what's new, what this commission needs to do. They're unacceptable to us. Then perhaps we'd better get right to the very report of this committee.
ParlaMint-BA_2010-07-13-0.u8061	Thank you very much. Adem Ibrahimpašić. Here you go.
ParlaMint-BA_2010-07-13-0.u8062	Oh, here, I'm listening to this all together and I don't know why someone would throw some samples after 15 years, they have to be stored until I can I.D. That I.D. can be in 15 days, it can be in 100 years. He'll die a family so you won't have a sample to identify him. And here, if I can help, I would suggest that such a formulation be in law, that the samples be kept until identification. There's no reason to throw that away after 15 years, or at least I can't find a rational explanation for it. Well, if that can help, here.
ParlaMint-BA_2010-07-13-0.u8063	Thank you very much. Božo Rajić, then Božo Ljubić.
ParlaMint-BA_2010-07-13-0.u8064	Thank you, Mr. Chairman. Well, we're back in the debate about the essence instead of discussing the procedure, but since we are, I would just say that I support the position of the House to put this committee in charge of taking a very responsible look at this in the process and that this negative opinion is rejected, because we don't want to lose the opportunity to pass the law. 10 And secondly, I will repeat what I said at one of the previous sessions, we have become in some way hostages of the House of Representatives and thus degrade our legitimacy as an equal home in the Parliamentary Assembly of BiH. The fact that the House of Representatives has adopted a legal solution with so many amendments does not oblige us and it is not a cemented position, therefore there is a business possibility of harmonising texts that have been adopted in different texts and that should not be feared, nor should it be avoided. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-BA_2010-07-13-0.u8065	Thank you very much. Mr. Božo Ljubić. Here you go.
ParlaMint-BA_2010-07-13-0.u8066	Here, Mr. Chairman, I was also going to say that we've opened up a debate about the law, and we should actually define ourselves about the procedure, as far as the law goes. And I think that Mr. Koprivica's proposal at this point is a rational proposal, so we don't lose the law for a long time, and I think we should focus on it. So, let's get that back to this committee, because I think there are rational arguments and amendments that require that they be considered and accepted and that further efforts be made. Thank you.
ParlaMint-BA_2010-07-13-0.u8067	Thank you very much. If no one is answering for a word anymore, I would first put to the vote who is in favour of accepting the Commission's report, in which case is the proposed law rejected? Who is the Commission's "for" report? One. Who Is “against ”? "Contained"? The Commission’s report was not adopted. Now we're voting, there's nothing to vote on, but it's meant to be, right, it's coming back to this committee with instructions that come out of this debate that we've had today on this agenda point. Moving to the fourth item of the agenda: Ad. 4. Proposal for a Law on Amendments and Supplements to the Labour Act in the Institutions of Bosnia and Herzegovina (Second Reading) 11 This is a second reading. The second reading discusses amendments and votes on the bill. You've received a report from the Constitutional Legal Commission. The Commission accepted the proposal with 23 amendments. The House of Representatives passed this law with 23 amendments. I give my word to the chairman of this committee, Mr. Ivo Miri Jović. Here you go. Ivo Miro
ParlaMint-BA_2010-07-13-0.u8069	Thank you very much. You have also pointed out that 23 amendments have arrived in our commission to consider the amendment law and amendments to the Labour Act in BiH institutions. The commission adopted all 23 amendments. You have now adopted the text of the Amendment Law and the Supplements to the Labour Act in BiH institutions, and I think we have come to a good and quality solution and I suggest that the House adopt it.
ParlaMint-BA_2010-07-13-0.u8070	Thank you very much. I'm opening a debate. If no one answers their word, we can vote. We're voting on the bill. Who Is For? I agree that we unanimously adopted the Bill on Amendments and Supplements to the Labour Act in BiH institutions in the same text as at the House of Representatives. Moving to the 5th item of the agenda: Ad. 5. Proposal for a law on copyright and related rights (second reading) This is a second reading. The second reading discusses amendments and votes on the bill. You've received a report from the Constitutional Legal Commission. The Commission adopted the draft law with 18 amendments. The House of Representatives passed this law with 18 amendments. I give my word to the chairman of this committee, Mr. Ivo Miri Jović, if there is any need. Here you go. Ivo Miro
ParlaMint-BA_2010-07-13-0.u8072	Thank you very much. I'll try very briefly. We have before us one law that has long been on our benches and working sessions and this commission and the House. And at the last session of the Constitutional Commission, I have tabled 17 amendments, and all 17 amendments have been adopted by our committee. That's the report you got. Since it is finally a quality solution, I suggest that the House also accept such a bill. 12
ParlaMint-BA_2010-07-13-0.u8073	Thank you very much. I'm opening a debate. If no one answers our question, we vote on the bill. Who Is For? Does anyone have “against ” abstention? There isn't. I find that we unanimously adopted the Law on Copyright and Related Rights in the same text as at the House of Representatives. Moving to the 6th point of the agenda: Ad. Six. Proposal for a law on collective exercise of copyright and related rights (second reading) The second reading discusses amendments and votes on the bill. You've received a report from the Constitutional Legal Commission. The Commission adopted the draft law with 20 amendments. The House of Representatives passed this law with 20 amendments. I give my word to the chairman of this committee, Mr. Ivo Miri Jović. Here you go. Ivo Miro
ParlaMint-BA_2010-07-13-0.u8075	Thank you very much. As with the previous law, I can say, because they've been following each other all this time, and we have before us a bill on collective achievement of copyright and related rights. I have tabled 20 amendments at the Constitutional Commission meeting, and all 20 amendments have been adopted by this committee. So we got a unanimous adoption of the amendment bill, which I suggest that the House do the same.
ParlaMint-BA_2010-07-13-0.u8076	Thank you very much. I'm opening a debate. Mrs. Majkić answered her word.
ParlaMint-BA_2010-07-13-0.u8077	I suggest we adopt one conclusion, which applies to both the previous law and this, which has also been confirmed by the Constitutional Legal Commission of the House of Representatives. A very good conclusion, given the large number of objections surrounding these laws, is that the conclusion is 'a year after the adoption of the Copyright and Related Rights Act will consider the effects of its amendments and possibly propose new amendments and additions'. Because there was a large number of dilemmas indeed about both this law and this one that had just been adopted. So I suggest that our home also supports, because this is really the conclusion of 13 who needs to think and make a decision, indeed, and changes in the law if it turns out he wasn't good at everything.
ParlaMint-BA_2010-07-13-0.u8078	Thank you very much. Mr Ivo Miro Jović. Here you go. Ivo Miro
ParlaMint-BA_2010-07-13-0.u8079	Thank you very much. So if we go with this conclusion, I mean, there's no reason not to support it, it might be necessary to build up: 'to commit this ministry report after a year of applying that law'. It means it's built into this conclusion.
ParlaMint-BA_2010-07-13-0.u8080	It's the Ministry of Civil Affairs, I guess, or who was doing this law. The Council of Ministers is a proposal for us formally, so it doesn't go.
ParlaMint-BA_2010-07-13-0.u8081	/no microphone turned on/
ParlaMint-BA_2010-07-13-0.u8082	Okay. Is anyone else answering for word? If he doesn't answer, I'm putting the bill to the vote. Who Is For? I agree that we unanimously adopted the Law on collective exercise of copyright and related rights in the same text as at the House of Representatives. I now propose that the vote on this conclusion proposed by Mrs Majkić be added by Mr Ivo Miro Jović: 'To oblige the Council of Ministers to submit a report on the effects of the application of this law after one year of adoption of the law'. This conclusion would then also refer to the previous Law on Copyright and Related Rights. Can we vote together? Who Is For? Does anyone have “against, ”“ abstention ”? There isn't. I also find that from the 5th and 6th points of the agenda, we have adopted this conclusion as read. Point 7. Ad. Seven. Proposal for a Law amending the Law on Public Procurement of Bosnia and Herzegovina (second reading) 14 This is a second reading. The second reading discusses amendments and votes on the bill. You have received a report from the Finance and Budget Commission. The Commission adopted the draft law in the proposed text. I give my word to the chairman of this committee.
ParlaMint-BA_2010-07-13-0.u8084	There were no amendments, I don't have...
ParlaMint-BA_2010-07-13-0.u8085	Okay, thank you very much. I'm opening a debate. If no one answers their word, I'm putting the bill to the vote. Who Is For? I also find that we adopted this Proposal for a Law amending the Law on Public Procurement of BiH in the same text as the House of Representatives. Moving to the 8th point of the agenda: Ad. 8. Proposal for a strategy for sports development in Bosnia and Herzegovina (second reading) This is a second reading. The second reading discusses amendments and votes on this strategy proposal. You've received a report from the Constitutional Legal Commission. The Commission accepted the proposal for a sports development strategy in BiH with one amendment. The House of Representatives adopted a proposal for a sports development strategy with one amendment. I give my word to the chairman of this committee, Mr. Ivo Miri Jović, if there is any need. Here you go. Ivo Miro
ParlaMint-BA_2010-07-13-0.u8087	Thank you very much. I can say that this commission, and I personally believe that we have a very important strategic document on the development of sport, a very important branch in the development of a social community. Our commission unanimously supported, and the amendment... which I've invested has been applied and is purely technical in disputing one of the sports, it's karate. So that, you might say, and technically, was the amendment, but it was adopted and is an integral part of this proposal that you have on the tables. And I suggest we adopt today a proposal for a strategy for development of sports in BiH. 15
ParlaMint-BA_2010-07-13-0.u8088	Thank you very much. I'm opening a debate. Mr. Slobodan Šaraba. Here you go.
ParlaMint-BA_2010-07-13-0.u8089	Thank you, Mr. Chairman. So I'm personally sorry that I haven't been in a position to participate in a public debate and to make my point on this extremely important document. In the meantime, there have been some things that are related to sports, so I'm going to say, but just for a little while, that I don't think we need this strategy right now. It is necessary to clarify the state of crime and corruption in certain areas of sport and only then to adopt such a significant and serious document, and this is indeed a significant and serious document. We have certain branches of sport, I will repeat it publicly, where there is crime and corruption and I am glad what some neighbouring countries have done, I think it is a path to which BiH should go, so I am glad that what I have read has done Croatia. I think they should also do it by the authorities here, clear up the situation, cut up some things and then adopt such important documents. Otherwise, we're going to have documents because there's a strategy, that there's talk of something being adopted, and that we're going to have something on one side that we're going to call serious documents, and on the other we're going to have some very ugly things, unfortunately, it's not going to help us. These ugly things will overpower this thing called a serious document. Thank you.
ParlaMint-BA_2010-07-13-0.u8090	Thank you very much. Is anyone else answering for word? Mr Ivo Miro Jović. Here you go. Ivo Miro
ParlaMint-BA_2010-07-13-0.u8091	: I feel for the need to just say the following. I said there was a very good quality and quality solution to the document before us. And surely there are these remarks that the esteemed colleague Šaraba said, only they cannot be found, nor are they in the composition of this document.
ParlaMint-BA_2010-07-13-0.u8092	Thank you very much. Is anyone else answering for word? If not, I put it to the vote on the proposal for a sports strategy in BiH. Who Is For? Is there anyone “against ”? There isn't. With one vote "abstained", I find that the Sports Development Strategy in BiH was adopted in the same text as at the House of Representatives. Moving to the 9th point of the agenda: 16 Ad. Nine. Proposal for a framework law on free legal aid (first reading) This is the first reading of the bill. First there is a debate on the necessity and principles on which it is based. You've been given the Constitutional Commission's opinion. The Commission accepted the principles of the proposed law. He adopted the House of Representatives in his first reading of the Framework Law proposal. I give my word to the chairman of this committee, Mr. Ivo Miri Jović. Here you go. Ivo Miro
ParlaMint-BA_2010-07-13-0.u8094	Thank you very much. Dear Mr. President and fellow Members, our committee adopted the proposal for a framework law on free legal aid in the first reading, but I would suggest, with the support of such a solution, that today the House declare itself to reduce the process of the amendment phase so that we can adopt such an important law at the next session of our home. I'll just remind you that for two years we had to adopt this law, we didn't do it until 30 last month, and the consequences for BiH can be both significant and bad. This is a situation where I think we don't have any need to risk whether we pass that law or not until 29th, next session. So I'd like to ask you to make a decision today to cut the amendment phase by half.
ParlaMint-BA_2010-07-13-0.u8095	Half. How much? That's seven days, right? Seven. Okay, thank you very much. I'm opening a debate. Mrs. Majkić called.
ParlaMint-BA_2010-07-13-0.u8096	Dear colleagues, I must really say that we will not support this law, and now I will also make arguments that will not support it. The proposal for a law on free legal aid was first submitted in a parliamentary procedure in January 2009. We then proposed a number of amendments, saying that the law should be indicative. It was not accepted at the time, and it fell upon the House of the Peoples. I think the House of Representatives would have fallen if there were enough votes "against", but it wasn't, it's always problematic to provide. So this was a surprise to us, 7. The 6th comes a new proposal of almost the same law, now called indicative, but almost identical. As a constitutional basis, the reluctance of the really Constitutional Commission, according to the famous Article IV. 4.a) The BiH Constitution, which preambles that the constitutional basis for the adoption of this law is the universal jurisdiction of the BiH Parliamentary Assembly for the adoption of all laws, which in our opinion cannot be a constitutional basis, because it is not jurisdiction, jurisdiction has been questioned. So, the Constitution, Article III. The BiH Constitution determines the competence and relationship between BiH institutions and entities and the stance of the 1st member is listed in the BiH authority. In the same article, paragraphs 2 and 3. The BiH Constitution prescribed entity competences, but not taxed, but the position of the 3rd member prescribed that all government functions and powers which are not explicitly entrusted to the BiH institutions belong to entities. 17 Also, amandman LVI. to Article III. The RS constitution found that the RS belonged to all state functions and competences other than those explicitly transferred to its institutions by the BiH Constitution. Therefore, the adoption of such a law is in the exclusive jurisdiction of the entity. So, in addition to these stories of jurisdiction, which is why... we won't support, the RS Department of Justice has said that passing a law like this without any consultation with the RS Department of Justice is not correct. So, the BiH Ministry of Justice had to find, it's a classic problem, here's what time it repeats itself, find ways to make arrangements on things that might be agreed on, although jurisdiction is a matter that is not being negotiated. But I suggest, so in the future, and I'm asking the Justice Department, if he can't achieve it, he knows it's not jurisdiction and he can't reach that compromise, we don't have, just like this problem that is constant. The RS has harmonised its law on free legal assistance with European conventions and we do not need to change or agree. So that's why the Serbian People's Club won't support this bill.
ParlaMint-BA_2010-07-13-0.u8097	Thank you very much. Who's next to the word? Alma Čolo and Zoran Koprivica.
ParlaMint-BA_2010-07-13-0.u8098	The Honorable Chairman, respected colleagues and others present at today's session, is true that this law was almost in the same shape in this home and was not supported by delegates from the RS. It is true that they then insisted on framework law, which is now the case, and here, so the Council of Ministers respected this insistence and today we are considering here means 'Framework law on providing free legal assistance'. I would like to replicate a little with Mrs. Majkić when it comes to BiH's competence to pass this law. Free legal aid is an institute contained in the European Convention for the Protection of Human Rights and Fundamental Freedoms. This is Article 6. The European Convention, which guarantees all citizens, all citizens of the Member States of the Council of Europe, and 47 are members of the Council of Europe, to have the right to free legal assistance in a situation where they cannot provide it with their own resources. We now have a situation that BiH as a member of the Council of Europe is obliged to respect the international convention, meaning the European Convention on the Protection of Human Rights and as such is obliged to pass this law that will provide free legal assistance on equal grounds at all levels in BiH. We now have a situation for individual courts to act differently. When a party to the proceedings, suspected or accused of criminal proceedings, appears with a request to provide free legal assistance, then we do not have unique criteria in which free legal aid will be granted to him and how it is proved that someone is poor and is in a state of emergency and that he cannot afford that assistance himself. 18 The truth is what Mrs Dušanka Majkić says they have their own law and, I think, they have their own laws, they bring what is right for them, but the issue of BiH's jurisdiction is defined, not only in Article III. Article 1(1) is replaced by the following: Point 5, which is about the additional powers of BiH, where this is one of the responsibilities that protects BiH's international subjectivity. Because BiH, as a state that has international subjectivity, must fulfil the relevant obligations towards international institutions whose member it is and thus BiH must pass such a law. And I'd still be replicating her claim that no consultations have been made with the Ministry of Real RS. The last page of the argument here states that this law has been delivered to the Ministry of Justice of the Republic of Slovenia and the Federation and to the Justice Commission of the Brcko District. What they haven't responded and delivered their remarks, that's their problem, and it can't stop the state from passing the law in this area. Thank you.
ParlaMint-BA_2010-07-13-0.u8099	Is anyone else answering for word? Zoran Koprivica first.
ParlaMint-BA_2010-07-13-0.u8100	Thank you, Mr. Chairman. I just wanted a few sentences when it comes to passing this law. First of all, this law cannot be called 'Framework Law on Free Legal Assistance', because it should already come from its name, which is why it is proposed that this term 'Free Legal Assistance Act in cases of express jurisdiction of BiH', means such a name, so that there is no conflict of jurisdiction between entity, or law at the level of the state. It is known that RS already, as Mrs. Majkić said, has the law, that the Brcko District already owns this law and that some cantons in the Federation of BiH also have the Law on Free Legal Assistance. So, and that is one additional reason why there are no reasons for the adoption of this law because this issue has already been settled in a whole way, prescribed both in the RS and the Brcko District and in some cantons in the Federation. Therefore, this proposal does not delimit the power to provide free legal assistance between entities and entities authorised to provide free legal assistance in accordance with the proposal provided. We have a lot of objections to a number of members who are listed here, so I wouldn't be able to figure out who all the members are on this occasion. In principle, we do not support the adoption of such a law for those reasons, primarily constitutional jurisdiction. Thank you.
ParlaMint-BA_2010-07-13-0.u8101	Thank you very much. Mrs. Majkić's answering again. 19
ParlaMint-BA_2010-07-13-0.u8102	I'd like the minister to speak his mind. So, what we said about jurisdiction, that's how it is. But there's a possibility that this can be bridged. If the law were called 'The Law on Free Legal Assistance in Cases Express the Jurisdiction of BiH', we can support the law. So there's no conflict of jurisdiction. So, if such a thing can change and even with respect to a number of amendments, we could talk about it. But like this... because, certainly in Article 11(2), it is prescribed that the Federation of BiH, RS and Brcko District regulate their laws on what is considered, for example, a minimum social one, means that laws exist. So it's known to be entity jurisdiction. So I'm asking you that what says 'Framework Law' and you really don't see who it refers to, it can't be a framework law.
ParlaMint-BA_2010-07-13-0.u8103	Thank you very much. I apologize to Mr. Rančić. I'm giving him my word now, given that Dušanka is twice already.
ParlaMint-BA_2010-07-13-0.u8104	Thank you very much. Do I have a word, may I? Eh, thank you very much. So, the law is in first reading, we're talking about principles, and we're going as a club to support this law, and we think it's necessary. With regard to the principle of constitutional basis, the need for its adoption, I would like to say the following. In BiH's jurisdiction are things that are directly prescribed as the exclusive competence of BiH in Article III. But also in BiH's jurisdiction as prescribed in Article III. We have the powers of BiH that can be transferred. Then we have jurisdiction regarding annexes 5. — 8 / 8 General Framework Agreement. We have the powers necessary to preserve the sovereignty, territorial integrity, political independence and international subjectivity of BiH and the possibility of establishing additional institutions to carry out such responsibilities. It's all in the BiH Constitution. Also, this is not all, as the jurisdiction arises, all those obligations BiH has made by signing and ratifying international conventions. We know that it is an obligation for domestic regulations to comply with international regulations, and that is fine in Article 4. ... in point (h) and point (j) which speaks of international conventions and interpretations, it appears that all international acts relating to individuals' rights to fair trial and equal access to justice, which BiH has ratified. Therefore, BiH's right and obligation to act on such acts also arises. In cross-border disputes, as defined in point j) it is indisputable and BiH's right and obligation to help its citizens. And that's not all. Here, let me give you another example. Annex 3. The Dayton Peace Agreement speaks of elections. This is not the Constitution, and in Annex 3 in Article 5, it is said, among other things, of another BiH jurisdiction. Eksplicite writes: "The parties agree to establish a Standing Election Commission whose task would be to conduct future elections in BiH, following the authority of the Interim Election Commission", etc. So here in Annex 3. Explicate the prescribed jurisdiction of BiH. 20 Not only in Annex 4, but also in Annex 3. The whole Dayton Agreement must be seen as a whole and interpreted and applied. If there's a will to pass this law, this is the first reading, let's support the principles, and in the amendment phase, we can eventually correct the law. Thank you.
ParlaMint-BA_2010-07-13-0.u8105	Thank you very much. Here, Alma Čolo answered her word, and in the end, we'll give the motionary, Mr. Minister Čolak.
ParlaMint-BA_2010-07-13-0.u8106	I'll do it for a while. Mr. Rančić said if there was a will we should uphold this law. I think this is the obligation of BiH. Believe me, in front of the European Court of Human Rights, the most cases against the member states of the Council of Europe are for violation of Article 6. The European Convention on Human Rights, which largely includes the right to free legal assistance. BiH, every citizen of this country who is suspected or accused of criminal proceedings, here I am only talking about a criminal and has the right to civil matters, has the right to address the European Court of Human Rights if it is rejected with its request for free legal assistance. The tužiti party in the procedure is BiH, neither Canton Sarajevo nor RS, nor Brcko District, but BiH. BiH is also obliged to arrange free legal aid, in accordance with the European Convention, at the level of the BiH state.
ParlaMint-BA_2010-07-13-0.u8107	Thank you very much. Now I give my word to Minister Bariša Čolak. Here you go, Mr. Minister. Lawmakers now.
ParlaMint-BA_2010-07-13-0.u8108	Mr. President, esteemed envoys, ladies and gentlemen, here I am going to try to be really brief. It's about one very important one, for BiH, the law, and I think it would really be a shame if here at the first reading he didn't pass. In fact, we are truly a mandatory state, and we are a member of the Council of Europe, we must apply the European Convention on Human Rights and Fundamental Freedoms, and so what we are trying to do, that is, we have tried to regulate this law. This does not mean, however, that entities, District Brcko, cantons, counties do not have the right and the possibility to pass their laws. We simply have administrative procedures at BiH level, so we have criminal proceedings, and we also have to give these people who also appear before the BiH Court in one, second or some third procedure the opportunity to have the right to free legal assistance. So it's just like that. We, if you've read the explanation, and of course it is safe, you've seen that we couldn't predict any financial resources at BiH level. Each government, therefore state, entity, 21 Brcko District and lower levels of government, will provide for free legal assistance under their budgets. There is a minimum that the BiH state should respect, given the provisions of the European Convention on the Protection of Human Rights and Fundamental Freedoms, in particular Article 6, here, which has been mentioned several times. We called this law 'frame' because, among other things, you asked for it, but here I can confidently tell you that on the Council of Ministers this law is unanimously supported on condition that it is called 'Framework Law on Free Aid'. I am, of course, invited to what was previously required, when this law was debated, and also because the chairman of the Council of Ministers himself asked for the Council of Ministers, agreed that he was called 'Framework Law', because he does, in a certain sense, edit the frameworks. But that does not mean that legal aid will not be necessary at the level of the BiH state, so before the BiH Court, and this law needs to be regulated. Here, once again I ask you, this is important for BiH and it would really be a shame if this law didn't pass today, and of course, here's to the second reading if there are really concrete remarks, give them, let's try to comply with those provisions that are potentially controversial and that we finally have the law. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-BA_2010-07-13-0.u8109	Thank you very much, Mr. Čolak. Is anyone else answering for word? If he does not answer, then we will put the proposal for a framework law on free legal aid in first reading Who is "for" this law? Nine is "for". Who Is “against ”? Four “against. ” There's no entity majority. There's no chance of alignment. We'll go to the polls next time. We're voting again. Who Is For? It's nine again, isn't it? ‘Non’? Four. So the law didn't pass. Moving to the 10th point of the agenda: Ad. Ten. Proposal for a Law amending the Law on administrative disputes between Bosnia and Herzegovina (first reading) This is the first reading of the bill. First there is a debate on the necessity and principles on which this bill is based. You've reached the opinion of the Constitutional 22 Commission. The Commission has accepted the principles of the bill. The House of Representatives passed the bill in the first reading. I give my word to the chairman of this committee, Mr. Ivo Miri Jović. Here you go. Ivo Miro
ParlaMint-BA_2010-07-13-0.u8111	Thank you very much. Dear colleagues, you have before you the Bill on Amendments to the BiH Administrative Dispute Act. Our commission unanimously supported that it had constitutional basis and the principles of this law. Since it's about first reading, and since we have a little time, I'm going to make the same proposal for this law as I did for the last one, I just wouldn't want her to experience the same fate. So I suggest we cut the amendment phase by half, and if we agree that the law goes through in the first reading, the amendment phase will be cut in half. Thank you.
ParlaMint-BA_2010-07-13-0.u8112	Thank you very much. I'm opening a debate. Is anyone answering their word? If no one answers, I'm putting the bill to the vote. Who is "for" the bill? Is there anyone “against ”? "Contained"? There isn't. I find that the Bill on Amendments to the Law on Administrative Disputes of BiH was adopted in the first reading. I would also suggest that we adopt this conclusion: to shorten the amendment phase to seven days. Who Is For? I find that we have unanimously adopted this conclusion. 11th item of the agenda: Ad. 11. Proposal for a law supplementing the Service Act in the Armed Forces of Bosnia and Herzegovina (first reading) First there is a debate on the necessity and principles on which the bill is based. You've been given the opinion of the Joint Defence and Security Commission. The Joint Commission has accepted the principles of this bill. I give my word to the chairman of this committee, Mr. Branko Zrn. Here you go, Mr. Branko. 23
ParlaMint-BA_2010-07-13-0.u8114	Thank you very much. Here, you have said the Joint Commission has adopted the principles of the proposed law with seven votes "yes" and no votes "against". We suggest that the House accept this bill in the first phase. If that's the case, I'm also proposing to shorten the amendment phase to seven days. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-BA_2010-07-13-0.u8115	Thank you very much. I'm opening a debate. Mrs. Majkić, Mr. Šaraba will.
ParlaMint-BA_2010-07-13-0.u8116	Here's another law we won't support. Now I'm saying it at the beginning so we can follow arguments that we won't support it. So this is the third proposal on the same subject. And it took me a really long time to explore what was really going on and what was behind the third time that one law was coming, the same law was coming into procedure and someone was trying to push it through. And what happened? I'm really amazed... when I found out what it was really about. So the bill came to the House of Representatives and the House of Representatives sent a request to the Council of Ministers and asked for a position. Council of Ministers, through the Secretary-General, by letter of 1. 6th, addressed to the Ministry of Defence, asked for the Ministry of Defence to be appointed within seven days and to deliver an opinion on the law. After that, the Department of Defense does two things. The first is, instead of delivering the requested opinion as requested, skillfully avoiding the answer, 21.6 is forwarding the same request. So it's not answering him, it's forwarding him to the finance ministry as if it were just a matter of the finance ministry. Furthermore, the Ministry of Finance did not provide an official response within the time limit as it was imagined because a new meeting of the House of Representatives was held, but a meeting of the House of Representatives was attended by Deputy Minister, Mr Kasumović, who said he had not officially received the request, but had his channels come to him and thought it was about 1,600,000 marks and that it was such an insignificant amount that there was really no reason not to support the law. I think that was the basic reason why the House of Representatives adopted this law. So, based on incomplete and incorrect data, the House of Representatives passed this law without any vote "against". And what exactly is this about? The essence of all the current proposals of this law, including this proposal sent by a representative of the SDA, was contained in an attempt to install a provision in the Law on Service in the Armed Forces of BiH under which former members of the Armed Forces of BiH, who for two years were members of the former entity armies, which cannot be extended professional military service due to the applicable laws, would allow early retirement. So it's 2,000 members of the Armed Forces, of which is 1,657 from the Federation and 340 from the RS, I think, one from the Brcko District. Article 3 of the proposed law, the law on which it is concerned, speaks of the provision of financial resources, says the difference in the exercise of these rights will be provided in the Budget by the BiH institutions and refund it to the PIO entity funds. So, in the meantime, while 24 of this is happening, this ministry is being tasked with certain sectors to create – what is in fact the retirement of 2,000 people under favourable conditions. And, in its report by the Ministry of Defence for itself, there is no access to it by anyone, nor by parliamentarians, nor by the Council of Ministers, none, in that report, says that in 2010 from the Budget of the BiH institution, it is necessary to provide additional funds as for the refund of funds and severances of 10.250,000, in 2011 7,700,000, in 2012, 10.800,000, in 2013, the amount is not even written, but is said to highlight an extended contract for more than 1,000 people who were to be fired in 2010, for which it is also required to provide severance and refunds, for which there is no account at all how much money for that purpose. We won't support it, which is why I'm now giving individual reasons. First of all, we won't support it because the whole process of this law stands for the SDA. So, the SDA Proposer, the SDA Defence Minister who eventually initiated this whole bill, the SDA Deputy Minister who came... to the House of Representatives and led parliamentarians astray. And because of that, it's clear why it's nice to have 2,000 people behind it who will vote, but it's not fair and it's not correct. Second, entity funds pay pensions. It is known what the Federation has done with a large number of accessories for certain categories and has brought almost the Federation's financial system into collapse. This is an attempt and at a small door another benefit for 2,000 people to be given, which on our part cannot be accepted, because we have found in the RS that only 7% of people have retired from 40 years of training. And no pension benefits can be considered anymore. It's been a while. European countries are thinking of increasing from 40 to 45 years, and we are constantly finding and inventing new variants of how we're going to retire people. So, if you were to adopt, what does the adoption of this law mean? This means that the retirement of these 2,000 people would be passed by entity laws. I don't see how that could be possible at all. In the PIO RS Fund, there is no provision allowing early retirement for any category compared to the general regulation contained in the PIO Act for 40 years. Also, the strategy for reforming this fund means the highest... and now in 2010 the new benefits are groundless. So there are no new privileges and that is the key reason why we cannot support this bill. Thank you.
ParlaMint-BA_2010-07-13-0.u8117	Thank you very much. Who's next to the word? Mr. Slobodan Šaraba has already answered. Here you go.
ParlaMint-BA_2010-07-13-0.u8118	Thank you, Mr. Chairman. I will support the principles of this bill for two basic reasons, and I will give an explanation. First, this proposal for a law supplementing the Law on Service in the Armed Forces addresses the current problem of the status of soldiers involved in the past war, which, due to the current 25 current provisions of the law, prevents the extension of the military service. And secondly, the proposed additions to the Armed Forces Service Act are not contrary to the commitments BiH has made. It's principled stuff. Secondly, I have to say that I've never had more calls from the field from Trebinj to the New Town, over the people of Foca who I think are here somewhere, who are praying and seeking a solution to their current status and the situation they've been in, and they're telling me that it's a number of hundreds of people who simply see in this law a solution to their existential status. Now, that's why I support the principles of this bill. I see this law as a temporary solution. And all that Mrs. Majkić is right about some of her demands and some of her claims, I, because of these calls from the field and these people, who, in the voice of "for" see help for themselves and salvation for their existence, cannot vote differently. That's why I'm going to give my support to this law and be for its adoption at this point. Thank you.
ParlaMint-BA_2010-07-13-0.u8119	Thank you very much. Mr. Rančić, then Drago Ljubičić.
ParlaMint-BA_2010-07-13-0.u8120	... Maybe a respected colleague, Majkić, doesn't like the idea of the law from the SDA, but she shouldn't mind it, and that shouldn't be the reason for her running the bill or against the law. [[Shortly disabled microphone]] I'll just remind us all of the chronology of trying to solve this issue. So we had the law of Mr. Sefer Halilović from the House of Representatives. He was normably and essentially not at that level that he satisfied solving this problem and gave up. He agreed to find a new solution. So we had a proposal from Mr. Lozančić from the House of Representatives, on this subject too, and an attempt to solve this problem. He's gone too far in a way that has leveled both active members and reservers, potential reservers in all rights and obligations. After we pointed this out to the Defence Commission, he agreed to draw up a new bill that would effectively address the issue of members of the Armed Forces who are participants, whether this war is behind us for at least two years. And, due to their 20 years, the inability to further resolve their status and the inability to extend the professional contract for these categories, on the other hand, our path towards NATO, this law addresses the status issues of this category of persons in the Armed Forces of BiH. When it comes to principles, so nothing is hidden, you have an explanation on several pages and financial data. My colleague read some of the others, who may be the only one available to her, we didn't get that. She should have shared that information with us. There are certain savings in the difference between the money received by these categories and future soldiers who would be admitted. The number is a product of the relations between the forces and the established number of members and officers and soldiers in the Armed Forces of BiH, not to the detriment of any constituent people, and I believe that we should support the principles of this law. Thank you. 26
ParlaMint-BA_2010-07-13-0.u8121	Thank you very much. Mr. Drago Ljubičić, then Božo Rajić.
ParlaMint-BA_2010-07-13-0.u8122	I thank you, Mr. Chairman. I welcome members of the College, colleagues and colleagues of the House, gentlemen from the Council of Ministers, distinguished guests, Mr Belkić from the House of Representatives. As soon as it comes to amending and supplementing this law. I'll just try to comment on a few things. I think the SNSD's earlier position is known when it comes to the Armed Forces of BiH, but here I will briefly repeat it. We don't think that BiH Armed Forces in this BiH and with this kind of cost are necessary. It's from an earlier known SNSD position. For a country like this, with this financial situation and these circumstances, we think it's too much of a cost for this country and I'll be honest with you, I don't want to hurt anyone by that, we don't see any particularly great benefit from that. So, I don't want to insult anyone, or underestimate them, so it's just one additional explanation and our attitude that Mrs. Majkić has made regarding these amendments and the addition of this law. I can in a certain way respect the situation of these people and their problems of their status because they were brought by the previous law into this situation, now the one they were brought into. And I can understand it in a certain way and their struggle to seek a solution to resolve their status. But then I think the beginning was wrong when these forces were formed, armed forces as they were formed. So, on that side, I respect their problems and I can understand. And in the end, I'd just like to comment on something like this for a little while. When it comes to this Article 2 and we see a proposal under which conditions are now going to be able to retire these people. I didn't recognize it in public, or see any comments on the proposal, meaning these retirement conditions, because here you give the possibility to retire people with 20 years of employment and below 20 years of employment, etc. I haven't felt or heard any comments from the public, and you can imagine why I'm commenting on this. Because we had similar laws, suggestions, actually, bill proposals for some other people, so the public reacted extremely badly. I didn't feel a reaction to any changes to this law. Thank you.
ParlaMint-BA_2010-07-13-0.u8123	Mr. Božo Rajić. There you go, then, Božo Ljubić.
ParlaMint-BA_2010-07-13-0.u8124	Thank you, Mr. Chairman. Well, I'm gonna try to make a little joke even though it's not a joke topic. You all know the hot one when two rivals came to the tub. One tells a story, says you're right. The other side comes, the other side says you're right. A woman says both right and wrong. Says the wife and you're right. I think this story is a good basis for what we're talking about today 27. So everyone's right. Most right are the people who have been put into a situation that have to solve the naked existence. It is right that those who say this is the opening of a process and the introduction of another specific right that has its financial requirements and its weight and which has a consistent kind of resistance, both in the public and in international institutions. It should not be forgotten that until yesterday we have not resolved the issue of arrangements with the International Monetary Fund, the World Bank, etc. Who look at it with suspicion. However, we, too, are right here, who are sharing ourselves in thinking about this problem, whether to solve it like this or not, but we should not be insensitive, because we are as parliament, as the most legislative body in the country, the most responsible, even for those actions and those decisions made by our colleagues in previous mandates, and especially for our decisions. I am not sure that in the mandate of making all the reform decisions related to the BiH defence system and the adoption of laws that today restricts the position of these people that we are talking about that Parliament had in mind at the time all the facts and that it was extremely sensitive to discuss these possible consequences that will sooner or later appear on the agenda. And in that sense, as followers of this highest legislative body, the decisions of our colleagues in previous mandates, we must feel responsible for finding a solution to these issues. So in that sense, I support the principles of this law without any doubt. We need to open the procedure, we need to get into the process and see if we can find a solution that these groups of people who have done their job when it was most important and who have served in these Armed Forces according to our decisions, our demands all these years, to be put into a situation today so they don't know where they're going to go. So we have to try to find some solution with consciousness about all these risks and all these suspicions that exist both in the country and out of the country. But perhaps it would be good, although it should not open a debate on the essence of the law, it might be good, with the adoption of the principle of this law, to consider trying to clarify the law in the amendment phase of some elements of subjectivism. So, with all due respect to the current minister and future defence minister, I would rule out from the text of the law the minister's jurisdiction to propose that he decide, that must be the right to automation. That's one thing. And secondly, perhaps you should consider creating a more favourable climate between us and this public for the adoption of such a law in this text in Article 1 that this refers to those who spent two years in combat, in the operational composition of these three components of the army. Let's not get to the point where we're dealing with logistics, here. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-BA_2010-07-13-0.u8125	Thank you very much. Božo Ljubić, come in.
ParlaMint-BA_2010-07-13-0.u8126	Mr. Chairman, colleagues and fellow MPs, I will immediately say that I support the principles of this law with all this context of which my colleague Božo Rajić spoke, who actually has seats. 28 But what is it? The first thing, this law does not change the position of the Armed Forces in the BiH system. So there's no dilemma. This law actually solves something that our system has failed to solve in another way and therefore, and on the other hand this law at the very least, to say the least, brings some more justice into this system to solve existential problems, the social problems of former fighters, defenders of all three components here in BiH, because it is not necessary to forget that we had, therefore, for those participants of armies that were previously retired, and were members of the active composition, other ways of solving their existential problems. So obviously this is no longer possible, and I think that one such approach has been found here that can be evened out. And another thing why I think this law won't cause any problems in the future. Well, actually, his consequences will be almost one-time. So, we will not have more people in the future who are members of the active army and who were also members of the armed formations of BiH, because, simply, the years pass and their age no longer qualify them for military membership, therefore, in the active composition of the present. So here I think, with the repairs that are possible and on the trail and these proposals, Mr. Bog Rajić's discussion, I think we should support in this reading, at this stage of this law, because really, as my colleague Šaraba said, I've been approached by many people who deserve to get rid of their status and we can't go deaf about this thing. After all, this is all a common solution to the problem of such a significant population and improves the security of the entire BiH system.
ParlaMint-BA_2010-07-13-0.u8127	Thank you very much. Mr. Branko Zrno, come in.
ParlaMint-BA_2010-07-13-0.u8128	Thank you very much. Ma, I would just join those and invite colleagues from the Serbian people to support at this stage, so in the first reading they support this law. We have time to talk, we have an amendment phase, because in principle, look out, we as parliamentarians have to support a solution, because we need a solution. I'm not saying it is this, that it is this proposal, but this amendment and supplementation is now a replica, which... comes from the party, before us this proposal came from the House of Representatives, as their proposal to amend and supplement the Service Act in the OS. So, for all these reasons that colleagues have stated, I think this law deserves, if nothing else, to support it in this first reading. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-BA_2010-07-13-0.u8129	It's Mrs. Majkić again.
ParlaMint-BA_2010-07-13-0.u8130	I thought the arguments I made would be enough, so they're not. Well, then I have to make the last argument in front of this house. This is a letter from the Ministry of Finance dated 2.7.2009, filed under number 05-02-2-5505-2/10 and addressed to the Ministry of Defence. So, the finance ministry finally gives an answer. I got this right before the session, and 29 letters were written 2.7, someone kept it in the drawer the whole time. And what the Ministry of Finance says, I'll just give you two sentences, on three sides is content. 'The proposed law is not acceptable from a financial aspect and its implementation would pose a threat to fiscal sustainability The budget of institutions whose revenues are extremely limited. The BiH institutions' 2010 budget does not plan the funds for these purposes under the Ministry of Defence budget, nor is it possible to find any means for the purposes of any reconstruction of this budget. The proposed law in its core has elements of social policy which is in the exclusive jurisdiction of entity governments... and for this reason the financing of this law from the budget of institutions is questionable. On the basis of the above, in point 2, the Ministry of Finance and the Treasury gives a negative opinion on the proposal for a law supplementing the Service Act in the Armed Forces’.
ParlaMint-BA_2010-07-13-0.u8131	Replica, Božo Rajić.
ParlaMint-BA_2010-07-13-0.u8132	Just one half question. Who signed that act?
ParlaMint-BA_2010-07-13-0.u8133	Minister Dragan Vrankić.
ParlaMint-BA_2010-07-13-0.u8134	It's a very important question to me. Did the minister sign it himself or someone for him?
ParlaMint-BA_2010-07-13-0.u8135	Dragan Vrankić. As far as I know, this is his signature.
ParlaMint-BA_2010-07-13-0.u8136	I think you should check it out.
ParlaMint-BA_2010-07-13-0.u8137	Okay. Božo, is it a replica because Ilija Filipović answered the same word.
ParlaMint-BA_2010-07-13-0.u8138	/no microphone turned on/
ParlaMint-BA_2010-07-13-0.u8139	It's a replica, isn't it? Here you go.
ParlaMint-BA_2010-07-13-0.u8140	Well, look, my replica refers to you from the College. So, I think that today we should welcome this session evenly and that we all have the same resources of information so that we can decide, not that you keep the information to yourself, and then in the discussion of that information you use to disprove our arguments. But in addition to your information, I am in favor of the principles of this law. 30
ParlaMint-BA_2010-07-13-0.u8141	Look, we didn't win. We got what you officially got. So, I don't have what Mrs. Majkić reads either. But let's see, Ilija Filipović has been waiting a long time for a word, so here you go, Mr Filipović.
ParlaMint-BA_2010-07-13-0.u8142	I welcome all present and thank you for your word. But after hearing the arguments, after hearing the arguments made in this letter, so I have to tell everyone here, including Mr. Ljubić, that I do not have this letter as a member of the College, there is no Tihić, and obviously, by his march and his channels, Mrs. Majkić has come to this letter but does not object. Please, she came, so the letter exists, I don't deny it, I'm not sure, I don't know how Mr. Vrankić is signing, whether or not it is, it's now for graphologists, so. I don't know how it's signed, I saw the signature there, it doesn't say for. But if this argument hadn't been made, I would have supported this bill. I still think that we need to support a bill like this and find a solution for these people. So there's no doubt about it. If someone had told me in '95, and the Dayton Peace Accords came, this country would have a single armed force, I would have told him, you fool, what are you talking about!? We all thought so. And I don't think it's a mistake for this country to have a single BiH Armed Forces. I think it's huge progress and that there's been a huge effort here, that domestic authorities, even though the successes made by the local authorities are not being spoken at all, are only waiting around the corner for some kind of mistake to attack local authorities, legally elected in direct elections as they do every year, but that's a special story, creating a climate against certain options that exist in this country. And the stronger the attacks, the longer those options will remain on the political scene in this country, the safer they are. So that's, obviously from the SDP doesn't match this story, but I have to confirm it to you, and again I'm hitting the seal on what I just said, so that's one fact that we should have in mind. This is a law that doesn't discriminate on anyone. This law is expendable for the country. But when I heard this view from the Ministry of Finance and the vault, I still want to remind you of one thing, one thing to remind this house of. This country doesn't have a development budget. The country does not have a budget that monitors the needs of BiH citizens. We have a quotation budget like when you go to a seminar, pay for the quotation, come, receive materials for that seminar, come home. Seminar's finished, closed financing structure, you've met your needs. We are limited in the state at the highest level in this country's legislative body to pass a law that obliges the budget to one fenning more than in the last calendar year. Once it has to come to an end and it has to stop and someone always has a lever, has a stick, has power, has the power to say 'it won't increase the budget by any fening'. This law requires material resources. He seeks and makes no distinction by color, by race, by nation, but by what is found, something that is some standard. I'm sure it wasn't invented by the people at the Department of Defense, they got certain moments, gentlemen, we're getting closer to Euro-Atlantic integration, you're knocking on the door of NATO, you can take the Armed Forces to a reasonable extent, you can give people a solution, there's already been such attempts, and there have been. You know how many of this country has privileged pensions? I can speak plainly because there are no MPs. There have been certain attempts and there have been screams and cycles, you know how many, for us 57 in 31 of this House. What other of our neighbouring countries have in the area, and some have, one day this country and this Parliament will become Parliament and decide without certain pressures, be aware that they cannot do otherwise than others and not allow members of the Presidency of the state, heads of state who have worked the most responsible duties for this country, presidents of parliaments, respected deputies who are being spent to exercise certain rights, because we have passed certain laws on privileged pensions both in one entity and in another entity and in this Parliament. There's always some group that finds some reason to belittle, disenfranchise, and it's heartless, so without any arguments, just because someone's looking for something. There's also one significant asset being sought here, and I think by adopting this, by accepting, I'm starting to get over reason, that the first reading will pass, that in the amendment phase, we'll fix it to be acceptable to everyone, we'll create one obligation for the Ministry of Finance to plan certain funds that pass this law. They pour them through, I don't know how many years, but every year, when Parliament adopts the law, then the Ministry of Finance must provide for funds to implement the law. We can't say now it's not planned in position: from this moment on this law will not start to apply. It can be said in the amendment phase that the application of this law from next fiscal year, for two years, but we don't have the right to do something that many are already allowed to leave because they have a medal, because they have a command duty, because many and many have already solved these issues in a different way, now people are, I believe, the largest number, and participants of the homeland war, let them retire honorably, and let them not wait for the retirement days that parliamentarians will wait if they don't regulate it in the same way, so they will go to the containers tomorrow. Let's not let the defense population, so let's not let the defense population get to us in containers, because there's no adequately resolved status and they're fired by this country that they created themselves. I think I've told you enough. This is Parliament, this is the largest legislative body, it can create obligations but will also stand behind it when the budget is adopted to implement this law until the end, not to say no funds. The funds only need to be used rationally. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-BA_2010-07-13-0.u8143	Adem Ibrahimpašić answered the question. Here you go.
ParlaMint-BA_2010-07-13-0.u8144	Thank you, Chairman. I must admit that many of the arguments she has made here, Mrs. Majkić, I respect. I'm sure I'm not the kind of guy who'd retire when I was 20. I've been nagging myself my whole life, so I think others should get high too. But this is about something else entirely. We made these people. We've produced now and their problem. I'm here slowly, according to the account, on the head if it's 2,000 people, if that pension is 400 marks, I'm banging now, it's 800,000, right, per month.
ParlaMint-BA_2010-07-13-0.u8145	It's not 400 more than 400. 32
ParlaMint-BA_2010-07-13-0.u8146	Well, let's make it 400, I don't know. So that's about the money she's talking about, but no one can convince me that in this budget, whatever we have, we can't find savings from those about 10 million marks and this thing ends fairly. Well, if you have to, here's all of us. We created this problem, we have to solve this problem and that problem can be solved. Surely what Kasumović was saying is not true, this is closer to the truth, but it's not some money that can't be found here and help these people. That's why I'm voting for the principles of this law. It's a condition that both Božo and Ilija talked about, that it's objective to see exactly where we are and in this period we can do it. So I will vote for the principles of this law. Thank you.
ParlaMint-BA_2010-07-13-0.u8147	Is anyone else answering for word? Here, let me just say a few words, maybe, since it was called SDA. I don't want to open a special debate, but I don't think it matters now whether the proposal came from some SDA MP or, here's because Mrs. Majkić mentioned it, from the SNSD. It is necessary to watch what is written in this proposal and whether it is acceptable, whether it is useful, whether Parliament should support it. After all, we've come here with a proposal from the House of Representatives, not the SDA. And I would join all those who are saying that we should support the bill in first reading and support these principles. Also, I think that by the time of adoption, we should get the official opinion of the Ministry of Finance by what Mrs. Majkić is saying and what she is calling for, it's a letter from the Ministry of Defence, and I don't know now on the grounds of which proposals, which initiatives, etc., so that by next session we have an official position of the Ministry of Defence, which, as far as I can see, here in the content of the law is said to apply, as far as I can see from 1.1.2010. So the finance ministry should also give an answer to how to secure those funds. But it's a good thing we don't pollute. We should ask for an official opinion here on the House of People, not what went towards the Ministry of Defense. We have, here's a chance to sort this population out, in a way, because it's the Armed Forces of BiH. In entities, we've dealt with it in a more or less satisfying way. Our obligation is to send this generation to a well-deserved pension. And this law has such a temporary character. Neither the state will be particularly damaged, nor will the budget be affected. Therefore, I agree, and I suggest that we adopt this law in our first reading. Since no one's answering for a word anymore, I'd like to put the bill to the vote. Who Is For? That's 10 votes "yes". Who Is “against ”? Three votes are "against". Let's go, there's no entity majority, then let's go round two, about trying to get along is no use, right? We're voting again. Who Is For? 11. ‘Non’? Three. 33 I find the proposal for a law supplementing the Law on the Armed Forces of BiH has passed in its first reading. ... It has been adopted, I suggest that this conclusion be adopted.
ParlaMint-BA_2010-07-13-0.u8148	/Common discussion/ [[microphone is not enabled]]
ParlaMint-BA_2010-07-13-0.u8149	From the number of present. [[Common discussion]] We have yet another conclusion that the amendment phase will be reduced to seven days. Who Is For?
ParlaMint-BA_2010-07-13-0.u8151	Please, I'm asking for a break for five minutes.
ParlaMint-BA_2010-07-13-0.u8152	Wait till we finish the vote. Who Is “against ”?
ParlaMint-BA_2010-07-13-0.u8153	I don't know what we're voting on.
ParlaMint-BA_2010-07-13-0.u8154	About this conclusion to be shortened for seven days.
ParlaMint-BA_2010-07-13-0.u8155	There's no talking until we finish this vote. No, please, there are four of us and there cannot be all four of us “against. ” When it's five, then four, and when it's four, then it's...
ParlaMint-BA_2010-07-13-0.u8156	That's why he has a clear view of it, Mrs. Majkić, that's no longer to be discussed.
ParlaMint-BA_2010-07-13-0.u8157	Oh, come on.
ParlaMint-BA_2010-07-13-0.u8158	Here you go, Ilija Filipović. Maybe Mrs. Majkić first, then 34.
ParlaMint-BA_2010-07-13-0.u8159	It can't be the two of us, and the four of us can't be...
ParlaMint-BA_2010-07-13-0.u8160	If I may explain, ma'am. I'll tell you the truth. So, we've had this problem multiple times and we've overcome it, I've thought for all time.
ParlaMint-BA_2010-07-13-0.u8161	When's five?
ParlaMint-BA_2010-07-13-0.u8162	When voted in the second round, there must be no more than two-thirds, so two-thirds or more than two-thirds of the elected entity. Not present but selected in one entity. There were no "against" four votes here, but three votes from the Club of Serbs because there are four of you here. So it's legitimate and it's the right decision we've made.
ParlaMint-BA_2010-07-13-0.u8163	We made the decision, but here's Mrs. Majkić asking for a half-hour break. _________(?) Five minutes, don't... How much do you want?
ParlaMint-BA_2010-07-13-0.u8165	Half an hour.
ParlaMint-BA_2010-07-13-0.u8166	He's looking for half an hour. [[PAUZA]] Ladies and gentlemen, here we go with the session. There was a vote going on. We voted on the bill. We still have to vote on the conclusion regarding the reduction of the amendment phase to seven days, because there is no record of the result of the vote, so here I am putting this conclusion on the reduction of the amendment phase.
ParlaMint-BA_2010-07-13-0.u8168	35 [[no microphone turned on]]
ParlaMint-BA_2010-07-13-0.u8169	Or should we declare this conclusion so... We vote first on this conclusion, so I'll give my word to the club chief. Who Is For? About a seven-day cut. Is there anyone “against ”? Three votes "against". There's no alignment. We have to vote again. Who Is For? ‘Non’? Same result - 11:3. This conclusion has been adopted. I'd like to give my word to the president of the club, drag Ljubičić. Here you go, Mr. Ljubičić.
ParlaMint-BA_2010-07-13-0.u8170	I thank you, Mr. Chairman. So the reason why we asked for a break, simply, we wanted to do a part of our consultation when it comes to the bill and about the vote itself. What I'm saying is, our opinion is that the law was passed in the way it was adopted, amended, these additions to the law, but what we could come to a conclusion in our consultations: it's a law that is simply inapplicable when it comes to retirement conditions. Here, when we talk about the law, the pension law in the RS that regulates this issue, this law does not recognise these conditions for retirement, and our assessment is that it will be very difficult to implement this law, or impossible. Under current law, the application of this law is now impossible in the RS. It's about the law, so it's simple to conclude, inapplicable law. Thank you.
ParlaMint-BA_2010-07-13-0.u8171	Thank you very much. We're moving to the 12th point of the agenda. IVO
ParlaMint-BA_2010-07-13-0.u8172	microphone not enabled
ParlaMint-BA_2010-07-13-0.u8173	Well, let's not discuss it now. Okay. Here you go, sir. Ivo Miro
ParlaMint-BA_2010-07-13-0.u8174	: I will not argue, it is not about the law at all, but you, Mr. President, have twice repeated that 11 is "for", and 10 is "for". 36
ParlaMint-BA_2010-07-13-0.u8175	10 "for", thank you very much. Thanks for the correction. Still, it's a good thing I gave you my word. Point 12. Ad. 12. Proposal for a Law on Census, Households and Apartments in Bosnia and Herzegovina 2011 (first reading) This is the first reading of this bill. First there is a debate on the necessity and principles on which it is based. You have received the opinion of the Joint Committee on Economic Reform and Development. The Commission accepted the principles of the proposed law. I give my word to the chairman of this committee, Mr. Zoran Koprivica. Here you go.
ParlaMint-BA_2010-07-13-0.u8177	Thank you, Mr. Chairman. Here, I wouldn't add anything special to that explanation of yours. All members of the People's House received a written opinion from the Commission on Economic Reform and Development, which at the meeting a few days ago supported the draft legislation on the census, households and housing in BiH 2011. So she supported the principles of the law. As you said, the House of Representatives also adopted the law in a second reading. It is before us today to declare the principles of the law mentioned. I propose that, in addition to this commission's decision to support itself with eight votes "yes" and no votes "against" the principles of the law, the Commission also considered Mr Rančić's proposal to shorten the amendment phase. That conclusion didn't go through. So here we are today at the opportunity to declare the principles of the law mentioned. I suggest you let the House know about it. Thank you.
ParlaMint-BA_2010-07-13-0.u8178	Thank you very much. I'm opening a debate. Here's Mr. Ivo Miro Jović. Here you go. Ivo Miro
ParlaMint-BA_2010-07-13-0.u8179	: The chairman of our committee, in which I am also a member, expressed everything exactly and you saw that there were no votes "against" and I would like it to be so today at the House. And in order not to pass... fate as well as on the commission of this acronym, that my colleague Rančić would not, so I will suggest that we shorten the time of the amendment phase.
ParlaMint-BA_2010-07-13-0.u8180	It's seven days again. 37 Ivo Miro
ParlaMint-BA_2010-07-13-0.u8181	It is.
ParlaMint-BA_2010-07-13-0.u8182	Okay, thank you very much. Mrs. Majkić called.
ParlaMint-BA_2010-07-13-0.u8183	Dear colleagues, here we have today another important law which, as is known, is one of the conditions for joining the EU and everyone knows and agrees that... the census in BiH should be completed in 2011 when other EU countries do so. We don't need to talk about why we need a list. So you don't need to say why you need a list of the country that's been doing it since '91. She wasn't, and she was in '91. years, as is known, have not been verified. We often refer to the '91 census. in the year, although it is not a constitutional category, although nowhere in the constitution says that a '91 census will be used to establish authorities at all levels in BiH. And yet some political parties often say it's the basis, and that's the problem with this law. I want to point out that my opinion and most people who deal with this so that the demographic picture of BiH is very different, even if there was no war, because 20 years is too long for things to change. In Western Europe, it is considered that a list is to be made every ten years, as data are applicable from the third year to the seventh year, the eighth is used for certain statistics, but the ninth year is already the time when a new list is to be called in order for new relevant data to be used for decision-making, whether economic, social or all others. It is known that after the war, so did the signing of the Dayton Peace Agreement, the internal territorial premposition, that it seemed to me that 109 municipalities and that there are now 140 municipalities and that in municipalities that did not exist before the war also the established rule of either, which is not the constitutional category, was to be established according to '91. A year. It's really unusual how to establish a government in municipalities that didn't exist in '91. Years according to the '91 census. A year. So we know what the committee of the House of Representatives has been through to bring this law into line and a very high level of consent has been achieved, except for Article 48, which remains a key problem for the adoption of this law. Therefore, Article 48, which states that the use of data on the ethnic structure of the population will be according to the '91 census. the year is valid after the end of this list for the formation of government on all new ones in BiH until the complete implementation of Annex 7. The Dayton Peace Agreement. In doing so, no one says a word, so you don't know who it is to say that Annex 7 is implemented, in which way it will be declared and whether in fact this principle, which is written like this, can apply for the next 20 years. So there's no fence that says that after a while, then no guarantee that this will be respected. I need someone to say it. Is that in the return strategy we were standing somewhere there that we should return to realisation by 2014, but such an open member... In 48, it really allows for maximum abuse. So, if the law is not passed, there will be no census at BiH level, which will talk about the country's impossible mission, and it will not be good for anyone, and if it is adopted, we know what it means, and the support of the SNSD in the Serbian People's Club will only get this law provided that the 48th article is deleted. So, we will support the principles of this law, but I must say that his fate depends further on whether he remains or will not remain a member of 48. Thank you.
ParlaMint-BA_2010-07-13-0.u8184	Thank you very much. Who's next to the word? Ivo Miro Jović, Božo Ljubić, Alma Čolo. Ivo Miro
ParlaMint-BA_2010-07-13-0.u8185	:Oh, I think in our work today, we are constantly getting out of trouble when it comes to laws. We consider first reading the law, constitutional foundation and principles, and we keep going into the content of the law. You don't need to run away from one fact that's defeated, today that we've already got law enforcement. People who are in the structures of working on this job are already speaking publicly: it is difficult to make a decision to do so in October of next year. And that's what keeps me thinking about any amendments, although there were dozens. The reason is that it's urgent to come to a legal solution, if I have one document that is the fruit of mutual compromise and agreement. But let us leave it for these seven days, so that today we may know immediately about this offered within what we are in charge of in the first reading, that we do not spread the story.
ParlaMint-BA_2010-07-13-0.u8186	Thank you very much. Mr. Božo Ljubić. Here you go.
ParlaMint-BA_2010-07-13-0.u8187	Mr. Chairman, colleagues and colleagues, for 20 years therefore we do not have a census, and the census is a condition for EU accession, the census is a condition for economic and social planning in BiH. We've been talking about this for a couple of years, since I was in the Council of Ministers, it's been on the agenda. I'll tell you what it was then, so to speak, my condition to support the list. It is therefore that the application of data on the ethnic structure will apply after the adoption of a new constitution. And that was our entrance to the parliamentary debate in the House of Representatives, but the commission, which was formed by the House of Representatives, after a long time, so to speak, very toleratedly disputingly, came up with a solution that, in my opinion, seemed acceptable and the very fact that the House of Representatives accepted it. It is obvious that at this point we are unable to come to a better solution in BiH at all. Therefore, every further delay and opening of new issues, new amendments and debates, I fear, would lead to the fact that we do not have the law, would not have regulations and therefore all our projections, all our wishes, all of ours, so to speak, a declaration of the EU's desire to join us would be thrown into the water alone. And on the other hand, I don't agree that, to put it that way, keeping this term open would mean ending the return in any way mean manipulation. In fact, what happened in BiH during the war has caused huge injustices to both the citizens and the peoples, especially parts of certain peoples, and even, and if this were to come out for 20 years, that 39 would only mean, in some way, compensation and some correction of injustice, and in no way manipulation. But it is clear to all of us, of course, that the return cannot last indefinitely, that there are institutions in this country that are able to make, so to speak, a decision on when we can consider this return as complete. In my opinion, the highest institution in BiH that can do this is Parliament, the Parliamentary Assembly of BiH in the way it normally makes decisions. Therefore, I would appeal to everyone not to open further questions, knowing what went through at the debate stage both in the Commission and the House of Representatives, and I think that now we are at the threshold of adopting the law and moving with Europe towards Europe, and every further opening of amendments, regardless of what I would even have on this law, would distance us from it. And there is, in particular, no reason not to support this law today, as counterpart Ivo Miro Jović said, because it is about first reading, it is about principles, and I think that we would really make a big mistake today if we did not support this law in our first reading.
ParlaMint-BA_2010-07-13-0.u8188	Thank you very much. Mrs Alma Čolo.
ParlaMint-BA_2010-07-13-0.u8189	Well, I would briefly replicate Mrs. Majkić, although we are going into the measure of the law itself, and it's not today at the debate, it's not the subject of the debate at this session, but I can't really not respond to her sentence, I literally wrote her down: 'Cension list '91. the year is not a constitutional category'. Census of '91. the year as the basis for all government distribution at all levels is certainly a constitutional category, because the constitutional category is not only what is written in the Constitution, but what is contained in the practice of the BiH Constitutional Court. And in the Constitutional Court's ruling number U-5,2000, which contains four partial decisions required by the chairman-in-Office at the time, states that the results of ethnic cleansing and genocide cannot constitute legal legitimacy for the division of government at any level of BiH. I'm paraphrasing this by heart because I have no judgment, but I'm well aware of the text of all four partial decisions. And according to this Constitutional Court ruling, amendments to the Constitution of the Federation and the Constitution of the Republic of Slovenia have been amended and adopted in which the principle is literally incorporated into the text of the Constitution itself, the Federation and the RS. The Constitutional Court couldn't intervene on this constitution, but that verdict is certainly an integral part of our constitutional order, and in no case at all, here, now Mr. Šaraba is polluting with me; you can, no problem, but there are people who can certainly explain it to you and me from the scientific and academic aspect.
ParlaMint-BA_2010-07-13-0.u8190	Thank you very much. Can we pass this law in our first reading, on principles, not to conduct these discussions now? Who Is For? I agree that we unanimously adopted the Bill on the Census of Population, Households and Apartments in BiH in 2011 in the first reading. 40 And now the conclusion proposed by Mr Ivo Miro Jović: to shorten the amendment phase for seven days. Who Is For? Is there anyone “against ”? There isn't. "Contained"? There isn't. I also find that we adopted this conclusion unanimously. Moving to the 13th point of the agenda: Ad. 13. Annual report by the High Court and Prosecutorial Council of Bosnia and Herzegovina for 2009 You have received the Annual Report as well as the Opinion of the Constitutional Commission. The Commission proposes that the House adopt the Annual Report of the High Judicial and Prosecutorial Council of BiH as well as recommendations for the institution's more effective work. The House of Representatives received the Annual Report as well as recommendations for more effective work of the High Court and Prosecutorial Council in the coming period. I give my word to the chairman of this committee, Mr. Ivo Miri Jović. Here you go. Ivo Miro
ParlaMint-BA_2010-07-13-0.u8192	Thank you very much. We've got some extensive material ahead of us. It really takes a lot of time to study it, but I also said to the Constitutional Court, when it comes to this report, it's from a professional and methodological point of view, simply, a set of data, with which we can and do not have to agree, but simply, here is a picturesque, studioized state of work of a judicial authority. Based on this committee, this report has been forwarded to the House for discussion, and since we need to take it into account, that is what colleagues and in the House of Representatives have done, we have also given the Committee one addition in which, together with taking into account this report, we recommend both taking and making recommendations that have been made here for the better work and functioning of this institution. I'm sure if we were to go into complete content, we'd be polymizing, but we can't paralyze with what's being brought out here, because it's simply, I said, a set of true indicators.
ParlaMint-BA_2010-07-13-0.u8193	Thank you very much. I'm opening a debate. Branko Zrno came forward for the word.
ParlaMint-BA_2010-07-13-0.u8194	Just one correction,... 41 [[Disable microphone]]
ParlaMint-BA_2010-07-13-0.u8195	Turn on the microphone, please.
ParlaMint-BA_2010-07-13-0.u8196	It's about the report, here it stands, about the Annual Report of the High Judicial and Prosecutorial Council of BiH for 2009, so it's about the form we say by voting, not receiving knowledge.
ParlaMint-BA_2010-07-13-0.u8197	Okay, thank you. Mrs. Majkić answered her word.
ParlaMint-BA_2010-07-13-0.u8198	First, I'd like to see if the president of the High Court and Prosecutor's Council is here. _________(?) [[no microphone turned on]] Thank you very much. So, first comment on what Mr. Jović said about this commission. To adopt this report and recommend, at the same time as adoption, better work by the High Judicial and Prosecutorial Council is disproportionate. Accept, or we've learned because we're satisfied or something is missing here. Either it takes one or the other. So, I'm not clear on the position of the Constitutional Legal Commission that says that, well, we accept it, but we recommend that they work better. So much for this committee's position. Now a few words about the report itself. With all the respect Mr. Novaković enjoys as a man of the profession, and then when it comes to such a man, he really needs to have the necessary dose of measure, but I also want to say something that has been found countless times so here, and I want to say a few words about it. There are several questions they often ask here when the debate on the High Court and Prosecutorial Council report is. The first question is the selection of staff in the judiciary and, according to us, it deserves the most attention. In this context, selectors are asked questions because deciding on the fate of judges and prosecutors is indeed a very responsible job. Unfortunately, we still haven't realized whether there are real criteria for selecting selectors, both professional and moral. That's the first question. Secondly, the report says it can be found that the courts and prosecutors in 2009 achieved good results. I will remind you that in the last session we had a review of the Prosecutor's Office's work report and... that I was then talking about the selective approach of the Court of Justice and the Prosecutor's Office of BiH and the exact names cited cases that have been going on for a very long time and then I talked about the subject of dobrovoljački, Tuzlaska column, Silos, Kasarna Viktor Bubanj, Tarčin and many others. Also, there is often dissatisfaction from the RS with these two institutions, so this unoccupied objectivity which, according to us, seems to be and detecting by the Court and the Prosecutor's Office is reflected not only in the number of years of punishment, but there is another thing that may be more typical here: justice and... The BiH Court and Prosecutor's Office also sees that crimes committed by Bošnjak are being prosecuted or investigated by the Court of Justice and 42 of the BiH Prosecutor's Office, and then the cases are being transferred to a lower level - entity or cantonal. For what? Because they would be tried under the laws of the former SFRY, and Srbin and Hrvat are tried under BiH law. It's a matter that is often referred to at various forums where... discusses and discusses the High Court and Prosecutorial Council. I was also talking about a few specific cases that were noticeable. The case of the Cantonal Prosecutor's Office of the Tuzla Canton where witnesses exist that he was involved in war crimes but he's doing the job. So... he's suspected of being one of the actors. Second, the D.A.'s office in Doboy where the same prosecutor who's been suspected of war crimes works for years. So I'm talking about the selectivity that's being carried out in this country. And one more thing, not to be too long, about improving the work of courts and prosecutors in BiH. They say there are currently 2.5 million unsolved cases in BiH, out of which 500,000 in the RS and 2 million in the Federation. How do tax bonds explain this ineffectiveness of the judiciary or an even more precise question: How do tax bonds explain the enormous spending of the High Court and Prosecutorial Council's resources in relation to the work of courts? Here, these are some questions that I'm running for in the hope that I'll get an answer for them.
ParlaMint-BA_2010-07-13-0.u8200	Thank you very much. Who's next to the word? Zoran Koprivica.
ParlaMint-BA_2010-07-13-0.u8201	Thank you, Mr. Chairman. I wanted to ask only a few questions concerning, above all, the activity of improving the executive procedure. My question, therefore, is: What does it seem to be in this sense that the execution procedure before the BiH courts is improved, since it is evident that there are a lot of shortcomings in the enforcement process? I'm also interested: what seems to be more effective in solving municipal objects? We've heard that there are close to two million unsolved municipal objects. So, I'm curious: what was done by the mediation project in solving... economic disputes? So, what are the results of the mediation over the past period? The fact is that the general state, according to Ms. Majkić, in the judiciary in relation to reforms carried out in this area is unsatisfactory, that they have a number of objections, above all to the work of the BiH Prosecutor's Office in the process of processing war crimes and significant objections when it comes to the work of the BiH Prosecutor's Office. So, and that's my question to the vice president of the High Court and Prosecutor's Council. Thank you.
ParlaMint-BA_2010-07-13-0.u8202	Thank you very much. Who's on the phone? Alma Čolo. Here you go. 43
ParlaMint-BA_2010-07-13-0.u8203	Well, I have no questions at all about the vice-presidents of the High Court and Prosecutor's Council, but I think the establishment of this institution is certainly a very big step in BiH's fight to achieve the independence and impartiality of the judiciary in this country, which is, of course, one of the basic standards in the democratic world. However, I would have some objections, too, when it comes to the very composition of the High Court and Prosecutor's Council, but I can't, it's something that goes on our behalf, because we passed the Law on the High Court and Prosecutor's Council. I find it incomprehensible that of the 16 members you have six judges, five prosecutors and five lawyers, especially that there are five lawyers in that body. I think that in the next period we must do something, at least to include members of the academic community, professors of law colleges who are certainly more relevant in the assessment which candidate is better and which candidate is the most qualified candidate to perform a certain judicial function to include them in the work of this body. These five lawyers come not only from the entity's legal chambers, but also from the BiH Parliamentary Assembly has appointed lawyers to the High Court and Prosecutor's Council, and so has the Council of Ministers. So, the only two of these options where we could give members of the academic community we appointed lawyers and I think it's dangerous. Because lawyers who participate in the election of judges and prosecutors are able to put pressure on these judges and prosecutors tomorrow and this leads to suspicion of the impartiality and independence of the judiciary. And I think the Department of Justice needs to take care of this and try to change this law in the next term of office to get, of course, a higher-quality High Court and Prosecutor's Council. And I'd just look back on one recommendation. In no way do I want to touch on the independence of the judiciary because everything in this country that tries to carry out the burden of the work of the judicial authorities (I know a colleague well from the Sarajevo court) is interpreted as meddling the authorities in the work of the judiciary. I do not intend to do this in any way, however, when it comes to some of the recommendations made on the 63rd page regarding the appointment of judges of the Constitutional Court of BiH, it is said here that the procedure for the appointment of judges of the Constitutional Court of BiH should be subject to and elaborated on the criteria that are equal to the procedure for selecting judges of the regular courts and judges of the Federation Constitutional Court. I don't think that's right. Although the Constitutional Court has an appeal jurisdiction to address violations of rights, freedoms and rights of citizens in court proceedings before regular courts in BiH but, believe me, so does the European Court of Human Rights, it also addresses violations of the rights and freedoms of citizens of all Member States of the Council of Europe in judicial proceedings, but they are not elected by any independent body. European Court of Human Rights: these 47 judges are elected at the Parliamentary Assembly of the Council of Europe. And as a sideshow, I would point out that constitutional courts, judges of constitutional courts in almost all countries of Europe choose, the largest number of judges are elected by the presidents of the states, the percentage. Even in some kingdoms, monarchies, such as Great Britain, Španija, a large number of judges are elected by monarchs. So it wasn't left anywhere by an independent body. And I don't think that recommendation suits you. You can take control of regular courts, and you took them. And here, I have a negative experience, and there in the interview they don't ask you how much you know, but they specifically asked me what benefits I had from the SDA. It was a question at my prosecutor's interview, so I think you should show more professionalism in your work. I don't doubt it when it comes to you, but I think we all need to work a little bit more, to raise that independence to a higher level, without any intention of getting involved in your work. Thank you. 44
ParlaMint-BA_2010-07-13-0.u8204	Thank you very much. Mr. Hazim Rančić. Here you go.
ParlaMint-BA_2010-07-13-0.u8205	Thank you very much. The Honorable Chairman, distinguished colleagues and colleagues, therefore, this report is indeed large by the number of pages, text, table. Here, I'll look back at maybe two, three questions and comments. So I want to comment a little bit and ask a question about Table 1.20 on page 61 relating to chapter or point 1.2.7. The situation in the judiciary on 31.12.2009 concerns judges, prosecutors and professional associates, i.e. the fullness of courts and prosecutors with judges, prosecutors and professional associates. This table shows that a total of the estimated 976 was filled in 858, meaning that 118 judges were missing. Then the prosecutors are scheduled for 310, 297, missing, number of empty positions is 13. And expert associates, predicted 183, were filled 126, missing 57. In all, 188 people or places are vacant in courts and prosecutors. Of which, therefore, it is filled with judges 87.9%, with prosecutors 95.8% and professional associates 68.8%, totaling 87.2%. If we know that the final result, yearly, is related to the number of judges, prosecutors, and even professional associates, I do not understand that after a few, how many years of your work we are unable to bring to a higher percentage in the courts. Because this directly concerns the results of the total work of the courts and the number of cases solved. So we keep hearing at lower levels and in the parliaments of cantons, entities, missing people, they're called additional judges, etc., and when we see this state of filling on 31.12.2009, we see that there are a huge number of people missing. And I ask why they're not appointed. Because I just can't figure out that out of so many lawyers who meet the conditions for the prosecutor and the judge that this number of places you have left, and on the other hand you say we have a huge number of cases, we have a high standard, we can't get there, etc., etc. Regarding this table and this comment, of course, it is about the relationship and the financial budget, but it concerns only you, not these, not the budgets in courts and prosecutors. I would also like to comment on or ask a question, so if they make an account for you, I am interested in whether the High Court and Prosecutor's Council particularly analyses certain cases that cause public harassment or concern persons who have been committing crimes for a long time or who have committed serious crimes, which is why, is the worst of things. In some situations in this Parliament and in certain committees, the Commission for Defence and Security and in the Commission to monitor the legality of the work of the OSA, we who are members of it are getting information that goes about like this, here, we have also informed the prosecution, and the police, etc., etc. If they have reported it, then it is necessary for the police to obtain adequate evidence of the crimes they have committed. If they do, charge them, the prosecutor is obliged to prosecute, in the manner prescribed by the law. And if these things are done, then what happens to courts like that either release them from custody or release them and drop those charges? So, I don't want to go into the independence of work and courts, and the prosecution and law enforcement agencies, they're on their own. But we can't get information from the area of security: 45 police did their thing, the prosecution did their thing, and then said, "The court let him go." That's what we get here on these benches and in committee sessions. Well, I think it would be time for him to sit together, and with the representatives of law enforcement police agencies, and with the prosecutions, and here you are, and to say who makes the failures. For of the transgressions, and of the transgressions, and of the tithes, and of one, and of the other, and of the fifth, and of the seventh crime, we shall come in a position that individuals may commit a number of crimes, but they are not condemned, is there any of these serious crimes. And on the other hand, security or intelligence agencies say: we wrote, we delivered data, we're this, we're that. And when you look at the entire segment, there's no successful struggle of state institutions against, is there, crime and serious crimes. That's it, thank you very much.
ParlaMint-BA_2010-07-13-0.u8206	Thank you very much. Is anyone else answering for word? If he didn't answer his word, I'd close the argument. Is there any need for the vice president to answer questions? Do you want to? Here you go.
ParlaMint-BA_2010-07-13-0.u8207	Good afternoon, Honorable Chairman, chairman, MPs and guests. I wish you all a good day and I would like to thank you for putting the Annual Report of the High Court and Prosecutorial Council of BiH on this session today. I'll try to answer your comments and questions in a few sentences, and if I don't include everything you asked me, what you pointed out, I'd ask you to contact us in writing. Therefore, regarding the selection of personnel, i.e. whether there are real criteria for selecting judges and prosecutors, the High Judicial and Prosecutorial Council of BiH implements a competitive procedure for selecting judges, prosecutors and professional associates in accordance with the Law on the High Court and Prosecutorial Council of BiH, which also provides for these professional and moral criteria. So, expertise, as far as expertise is concerned, judges and prosecutors evaluate each year, at the end of the year, and we for all judges and prosecutors have results on their work at the end of the year. So we're using these results when we're interviewing colleagues... who are applying for the position of judge or prosecutor. Regarding cases that are transferred to entity levels from BiH level, or war crimes, or indeed the High Judicial and Prosecutorial Council, nor, I do not know, which authority can affect the decision of the BiH Court or the BiH Prosecutor's Office that will bring the cases down to cantonal, or district levels, the Council cannot do so. In connection with what Ms. Majkić said there are some prosecutors who are likely to be charged with war crimes, as regards the High Court and Prosecutor's Council, there is, within him, the Office of the Disciplinary Prosecutor and, therefore, after the election of judges and prosecutors, and during the election, all citizens, of course, can also contact the representatives here, or file a complaint by the Disciplinary Prosecutor's Office that they are investigating whether they are quoted or not. If the allegations are established, of course, the procedure is carried out, commissions shall be formed and the Council shall ultimately take a decision. As for the improvement of the executive procedure, I, I think, pointed out last year, when I was on the Constitutional Commission of the House of Peoples, that two working groups were formed at the High Court and Prosecutorial Council: one for improving the executive procedure and one 46 for resolving municipal cases. In September of this year, they expire two years when the two working groups are due to submit a report to the High Court and Prosecutorial Council. As far as we are aware, this one of the working groups involved in improving the executive process is already preparing, possibly, some amendments and additions to the Implementing Procedure Act, which should present, of course, to our Legislative Commission, so to the Council, etc., that we are going with the initiative towards the BiH Ministry of Justice. Also, this working group on the resolution of municipal cases has on several occasions made its recommendations adopted by the Council, and some have not; one of the products that came from this working group is the system... which has been applied for about a year at the Municipal Court in Sarajevo. It's a program for solving municipal objects, so it's already giving excellent results. In less than a year, about 170 thousand cases have been solved. So these are disputes in the executive procedure. She's right, Mrs. Alma Čolo, when she said there were few prosecutors, few judges at the High Court and Prosecutor's Council. That's, of course, what the Council noticed and knows, but you yourself explained why we have so many lawyers. Instead of having two lawyers, one from the Federation and one from the RS, we have one from the Council of Ministers of BiH, one from the Parliamentary House of BiH, and the fifth is our international member Sven Marius Urke. And I would also like to inform that the amendments and additions to this Law on the High Court and Prosecutor's Council are under way, i.e. a working group working on these amendments and additions, which will, of course, eventually go with the initiative towards the BiH Ministry of Justice. As for the fill-up, here's what I'm really going to do, I don't want to burden you anymore. As for the fill-up with judges and prosecutors, as noted by the gentleman on page 61, that was the situation on 31.12.2009, but as we are constantly announcing the competition, there are constant movements of judges and prosecutors from one level to another or to the same level. And for that reason, at that point, it was such a misfit of judges and prosecutors. And I would also like to point out that the High Judicial and Prosecutorial Council of BiH must take care of the national structure of judges and prosecutors and that, believe us, is creating a major problem, as judges and prosecutors from the Federation travel to the RS or from the RS to the Federation, without having some basic fees such as transport costs and separate lives. That's so much I'd tell you. If I haven't covered all your comments and questions, I would ask you to contact us in writing and you will soon receive an answer. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-BA_2010-07-13-0.u8208	Thank you very much. Who's next to answer the word? If not, here's Mr. Rančić.
ParlaMint-BA_2010-07-13-0.u8209	I will only briefly express one little dissatisfaction with the response to the fullness in the judiciary on 31.12.2009. I cannot accept as a reason, what the 47 respected ladies presented, the national structure, etc. Because on page 44, on the day 1.1.2009, on the same page, the table on the situation in the judiciary and the filling on the day 1.1.2009 is the same, a little more favourable, but the same in the sense that they are not filled. You're also missing 31 judges, 19 prosecutors, 30 interns. And instead of repairing this situation with the reception of new people from January 2009 to December 2009, you have a reverse trend. You're dropping representation in a way that you're missing 118 judges, 13 prosecutors, 57 interns, a total of 188 people. If you have this trend by sticking to the reasons you presented in 2010 you may have 250 or no Bog-given 300 vacated etc. And these are not reasons and justifications, we have to fight for a reverse trend, not a fall in fill, but a rise in filling what will contribute, is better work and courts and prosecutors and a greater number of solved cases. Thank you.
ParlaMint-BA_2010-07-13-0.u8210	Is there anyone else to answer for? I'll give myself my word. I have to say I'm really unhappy with what you said, because you said that judges and prosecutors are being evaluated. I will remind you that last year I asked a question, a delegate question to the High Court and Prosecutorial Council, and asked, "What is the basis for the professional and moral characteristics chosen by Prosecutor Hari Furlan, who escaped to BiH after an affair in Slovenia and won the post at the High Court and Prosecutorial Council?" And you know what the answer was: "We don't check at all." So that's the answer I got from the High Court and Prosecution Council. So, no checking, yes, the answer was, 'He had the means to his work.' So anyone who can provide funds can be on the High Court and Prosecutorial Council. That's one thing. Second, you said you couldn't influence objects that would be transferred to an entity or another level. I know that,...I expect that, but I expect that you will have an arsenal to measure prosecutors who behave like that, which is your responsibility. So I didn't get the answers I was looking for. Is anyone else picking up? He's not answering. We're voting on the Annual Report, with recommendations. Who Is For? Who Is “against ”? Who is “abstained ”? There's no one here. 10:4, not adopted. We've got to go to the second round. _________(?) [[no microphone turned on]] No, we need to get what's left of it, so let's keep it for the next point. We're going to the next item on the agenda, that's 14, so we'll leave the alignment later. 48 Point 14. Ad. 14. Report on law enforcement under the Central Election Commission for Bosnia and Herzegovina 2009
ParlaMint-BA_2010-07-13-0.u8213	: It is a unique rating for all of these reports, as I said before, so is this.
ParlaMint-BA_2010-07-13-0.u8214	So, if anyone answers, I'm opening the debate. Is anyone answering for a word? No, I don't. We can vote. Who is “for ” the adoption of this report? Who Is For? Who Is “against ”? _________(?) [[no microphone turned on]] And who isn't here? Who isn't here? _________(?) From the Bosniak people.
ParlaMint-BA_2010-07-13-0.u8217	Okay, here's the end of the debate. I'm putting in the Annual Report of the High Court and Prosecution Council.
ParlaMint-BA_2010-07-13-0.u8218	49 [[no microphone turned on]]
ParlaMint-BA_2010-07-13-0.u8219	All right, all right. Only then is the 2009 report on the implementation of the law under the responsibility of the Central Election Commission of BiH. Who Is For? Is there anyone “against ”? "Contained"? With one vote "abstained", I find that the report on the implementation of the law under the responsibility of the Central Election Commission for 2009 was adopted. Moving to the 15th point of the agenda: Ad. 15. Report on the work of the Commission on Bosnia and Herzegovina concessions for 2009 You've received a report from the Constitutional Legal Commission. The Commission has accepted this report and is proposing to the House its adoption. The House of Representatives adopted this report. I give my word to the chairman of this committee, Mr. Ivo Miri Jović. Ivo Miro
ParlaMint-BA_2010-07-13-0.u8221	: In order to update this meeting, everything is written in our opinion and supported.
ParlaMint-BA_2010-07-13-0.u8222	Thank you very much. I'm opening a debate. If no one answers their word, we vote on the report. Who Is For? Is there anyone “against ”? There isn't. "Contained"? There isn't. I agree that we unanimously adopted the 2009 Commission's report on the work for BiH concessions. Moving to the 16th point of the agenda: Ad. 16. Report on the circumstances relating to the issue of CEMT licences for 2009 to carriers in Bosnia and Herzegovina – Research Commission for the Determination of Circumstances in the 2009 issue of CEMT licences to carriers in Bosnia and Herzegovina The investigation committee delivered the report to the House on 24.6.2010. The Commission adopted the Report and proposed to the House the adoption of the following conclusions: 50 1. The House of the Peoples of the Parliamentary Assembly of BiH asks the Ministry of Communications and Transport to establish a working group in which experts from the field of international road transport would be tasked with carrying out an analysis of the existing situation in the application of the Regulation on criteria, procedure and way of distribution of foreign cargo licences to domestic carriers and thus making up a proposal to amend and supplement the Regulations. 2. The BiH Parliamentary Assembly's House asks the BiH Ministry of Communications and Transport to forward a detailed annual report to the BiH Parliamentary Assembly on the Commission's work on the distribution of CEMT permits, as well as a six-month report on the issued replacement CEMT licenses. The House of Representatives adopted this conclusion report. I give my word to the chairman of the Commission of Investigation, Mr. Božo Rajić.
ParlaMint-BA_2010-07-13-0.u8224	Thank you, Mr. Chairman. You've read the conclusions, and I'm not going to convince this report that you have. It describes the way in which the initiative is launched, the decision to form the Research Commission is taken, and this report summarises the report on work and methods of work. It is only important to note that we tried, in accordance with the conclusion of this home, to work together with the House of Representatives' Investigative Commission, but since they were both time-consuming and in the process ahead, we could not agree on the terms, they finished their report earlier and we continued to work alone, we came to these results. However, it is important to note, for the record, that this report was adopted by a majority of votes, so we were not unanimous in adopting this report. And with the conclusions I'm obliged to remind and for record, for the sake of the public to know that our findings are down to three points. First, the procedure for the distribution of CEMT licences for 2009 was for the first time conducted in accordance with the Law on International and Inter-entity Road Transport and the Regulation on criteria, procedure and method of distribution of foreign cargo licences to domestic carriers. Second, despite the fact that the procedure for the distribution of CEMT licences in 2009 ran in accordance with the law and regulations, the distribution procedure established irregularities and non-transparentity in the score and publication of the final list of CEMT licences allocated. And third, the whole release process so-called Deputy licenses were conducted beyond the authority and with numerous errors. So this is the essence of our findings, and these are the conclusions that we have proposed in order to overcome the situation and to define the procedures more clearly. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-BA_2010-07-13-0.u8225	Thank you very much. I'm opening a debate. Mrs. Majkić's answering for a word. Here you go. 51
ParlaMint-BA_2010-07-13-0.u8226	I would like to remind you that this committee consisted of three members, so Mr Rajić, Mr Adem Ibrahimpašić and I. Also, I would like to remind you that the investigation committee was formed on the basis of a conclusion that I, therefore, first of my delegate question, then my proposal to conclude that it was going to the Commission of Investigation, and that I did not ultimately support this record. Why didn't I support him? Therefore, point 1, which states that the procedure for the distribution of CEMT licences for 2009 was first conducted in accordance with the Law on international and inter-entity road transport and the Regulation on the criteria and procedure of the distribution procedure, simply does not stand. I'd write it if it was a minister from mine, maybe I'd act like one. So it just doesn't stand. The second point, despite the fact that the procedure for the distribution of CEMT licences for 2009 has been passed in accordance with the law and regulations, irregularities and non-transparentity have been established in points and publications of the final list of CEMT licences granted. And third, the whole process of publishing the so-called Deputy licenses were directed past the authority, with numerous errors. So, I want to tell you that the findings I found, so more than ten questions I asked at the Commission's session, I didn't get an answer, not one. Those answers were that they spoke more of the chaos of this ministry than they spoke in favour of what the Commission was tasked with. You are aware that for the year 2007 in the Prosecutor's Office, the indictment against the responsible persons involved in issuing a CEMT permit was subsequently confirmed. Also, I came out with relevant indicators where exactly where the issue to be brought up is for other years, so 2007 is one year, but the D.A. and SIPA have to carry out the examination in 2008 and 2009. So, I spoke several times at this house about abuses in this ministry related to the issue of CEMT licenses. I was talking about problems that could happen for BiH to lose its right to grant CEMT licenses. So my position and all my efforts on this as delegates in the House of Nations are over. So I can't support a report like this. And I think that if Dom wants us to do this job properly, he should also reject it and return it to this commission to bring it into line with the real state that was found. And the conclusions of this committee are about the future. The home of the people proposes to establish a working group with experts from this area. Well, that's not the kind of thing they say about 2009 as the year in question. Not even today has this ministry published on the website a list of those who got CEMT licenses. It was published on its advertising board as if employed civil servants working in the ministry were interested in who received the CEMT license. He's interested in carriers, and the only way carriers can see it is if it's on this ministry's website. So I suggest not to adopt this commission report.
ParlaMint-BA_2010-07-13-0.u8227	Replica.
ParlaMint-BA_2010-07-13-0.u8228	Here's a replica of Božo Rajić. Here you go. 52
ParlaMint-BA_2010-07-13-0.u8229	You see, I'm really not surprised, but I'm surprised by trying to turn material truths into something else. So, Mrs. Majkić made it clear why we disagreed. She wanted to be a prosecutor, although our mandate is absolutely related only to the circumstances, therefore not to the facts, for the circumstances in which the distribution of CEMT permits for 2009. She insisted on trying to drag us to 2008 and 2007, and acted as if she had the right to press charges. We said that, we, the rest of us, said we had a mandate to determine the circumstances, that we weren't an investigative body, and that we couldn't connect, because the mandate of the investigation committee in the House of Representatives was wider. It covers the whole period, and ours only for one year. Secondly, no one can argue that this commission has worked according to... law and regulation, so the procedure has been conducted. Give an interactive observation of the text, very clearly, the procedure is conducted in accordance with the law and according to the applicable rule. In doing so, errors have been made in the way of points, evaluation of individual proposals, publication of lists, etc. No one can argue with that. But for the first time, thanks to then Minister Božo Ljubić, the procedure was returned to the legal and regulatory framework. Because until then, as they popularly all call it, the usual way to take a hand: one third of the RS representatives and share their own what they want, and that the other 60%, two thirds are divided into the Federation on the principle of 60:40, 60% share the Bošnjak with their 40% Hrvat. And that's when it was cut off, and that's a fact that needs to be accepted. Secondly, we made it clear that the mistakes were made, no matter what the procedure was conducted under the rule and by law there were material errors that we were not obliged to discuss, nor are we entitled to discuss. And thirdly, we have made it clear..., howeverMajkić that qualification is not powerful enough and is not in line with its perception and its perception of justice, we have said that the whole procedure is led past the authorisation and past the procedure, the whole process of issuing CEMT replacement permits. But she wanted to come to the conclusion, here's the charge. We're not a prosecutor's body, nor can we be. Therefore, the proposal that our entire work be devalued in this way and that it calls, as a member of the Investigative Commission, to reject this report is indeed not correct.
ParlaMint-BA_2010-07-13-0.u8230	Thank you very much. Božo Ljubić and Adem Ibrahimpašić.
ParlaMint-BA_2010-07-13-0.u8231	The Honorable Chairman, colleagues and fellow MPs, so here I am, reporting for debate and finally it is time to shed light on this problem from one point of view that I may have more information about than most of you here present. I absolutely support transparency in the work of BiH institutions, and I agreed that this House set up an investigative 53 commission to investigate the circumstances, as counterpart Rajić said, of issuing permits for 2009. However, I want to say here and introduce you to what most of you may not know, the gene of this problem. Why at all, both at the House of Representatives and here at the House of Peoples, why the initiative was launched to establish an investigative commission, and never before has it been launched. So precisely because it was done earlier in a way that the commissions, which were always formed by ministers, this job ended consensually and more or less within the deadline, and ultimately it was tabled, so to speak, one expectation, both in transporters, both in entities, and in entity bodies, and they all agreed. So, in 2008 before Christmas Catholic, so at the last moment when permits were to be signed for carriers, this commission came divided, divided by entity level, about how it would accept, or what principle. No, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, What are the criteria? The criteria were the number of vehicles, the eco-level of vehicles, the eco-3, the eco-4, the eco- 5, whether the transport activity was the basic activity, so to speak, of the one applying for licences, etc., and those were objective criteria that the Commission jointly established, so where there was no disagreement. However, there was, in fact, whether permission to share according to the entity principle, two-thirds of the Federation and one-third of the RS, and there was a clear, so to speak, division by entity level among the members of the commission. The Federation members proposed that permits be shared to all BiH on the basis of universal criteria without, I say, dividing into entities 2/3: 1/3, and members of this RS commission asked to remain in principle one-third for RS, where that one-third would then be shared by the ministry in Banja Luka and the other two-thirds for the Federation. And at that point, actually, the decision had to be made. And I, of course, hired counselors and experts and additionally, so to speak, we analyzed the regulations we had ahead of us. And to me, to put it that way, I'm not a lawyer, but I have therefore accepted the counsel of the lawyers and the legal logic that she has proved to me, and to this day no one has been able to prove to me otherwise, that we have applied the proper procedure. I'll tell you that here you're talking about CEMT licenses. However, there are two categories of permits. There are permits given by countries, so bilateral permits between states, and there's something called CEMT licenses and CEMT means the Conference of European Transport Ministers, so they're permanent. So I'm just going to quote you article 3 so you understand it logically who are lawyers and who are not. Article 3 says: 'The distribution of bilateral and CEMT permits shall be carried out by the Ministry. The Ministry of Permissions received from foreign states', these bilateral permits, 'distributes the competent ministries of entities and Brcko District of BiH (hereinafter: the competent ministries) under this procedure: two-thirds for the Federation, one-third for the RS, and for the Brcko District from the Federation and RS contingent. The distribution and distribution of CEMT permits, the next item, 'transports carried out by the Ministry' (in capital letters, means Ministry of Communications and Transport). Therefore, I want to say here, nor was there any intention to damage any entity here, nor was it simply in that situation when this commission came divided, I must admit here and honestly say, therefore my deputy who was from the RS was also the point of view that they should be divided 2/3:1/3, and then even the head of the commission who is now retired Mr. Šekar, too. But this interpretation of my advisors was enough argument for me to conform to the principle of sharing in this way. I'm here to say, completely looking you all in the eye, so the transporters from the RS and the Federation, and the one from Laktash and the one from the Shiro Brijeg, are scored by the same principle. Whether there have been some errors in the score, whether there have been errors in issuing replacement licenses, I allow all of this to be investigated. 54 And another thing to Mrs. Majkić, this process that has been opened and being conducted started before this Council of Ministers was formed at all, currently, because SIPA excluded the 2006 documentation for 2007 and researched. I don't rule out, so neither do I in any way remove the possibility of investigating others, but I'm telling you that we're here discussing 2009. It has been carried out in accordance with the Regulation, or it has been accessed in accordance with the Regulation. Whether it was in the work of this commission, in the score, etc., here... there are other institutions that need to investigate it, but I think. And another thing, I remove every one, so to speak, the insinuation that this report has something to do with the fact that... the president of this committee comes from the same dispute that the party president is coming from. Here, me and him and Bog are witnessing that in no way am I asked, nor am I consulted on what will stand there. If I were consulted, it would probably be a different formulation, but I don't think that way we can insinuate.
ParlaMint-BA_2010-07-13-0.u8232	Thank you very much. Mr. Adem Ibrahimpašić. Here you go.
ParlaMint-BA_2010-07-13-0.u8233	I thank you, Chairman. I'm also one of the members of that committee. In fact, everything's been said here, I'm just going to get my impressions out here somehow. So all the time and the CEMT licenses and bilateral distributions were 1:3, which was not supposed to be 1/3:2/3, which was not supposed to be. Bilateral yes, but CEMT permits no. Obviously, it satisfied someone that they were then allowed, come on, to the transporters, so to speak, not to tell the truckers, that they trade with each other with those permits. I say trade, they say they don't trade, but they give to each other, lose their jobs and give to someone else, which is not true. They made a business out of it. Whoever gets a license and knows for himself that there won't be so much transportation, then at some point it's going to be, says, I lost some job in Austria, so I'm going to get my CEMT licenses, not return to whoever gave it to me, so whoever gave it to someone who didn't get it, but they're obviously trading among themselves. And that, in my opinion, was my central question: what did you allow? He says that's how everybody in the neighborhood works, so so do we. And that's what this whole war is about. Because who's going to get more permits so they can sell those they don't need to sell to someone else who needs them. And there's the point. Don't think, I'm not naive, I've worked my whole life in some sort of ambience, God forbid, that's what this is about. The day it went down to the rulebook and the licenses were granted to the carriers, then this went off the rails, didn't it? And then, obviously someone had, suddenly got a shortfall, so now he's insinuating because that deficit needs to be returned so that it can be traded. That's my impression and I think it's absolutely in place. Thank you.
ParlaMint-BA_2010-07-13-0.u8234	Thank you very much. Let's close the discussion if there's no one else to discuss it. To vote on this report with the conclusions proposed by the Commission of Investigation. 55 I am putting this report to the vote. Who Is For? Is there anyone “against ”? With four votes "against" and nine "for"... It's not possible to get along. We're voting again. Who Is For? Nine again. ‘Non’? Four. I realize this report hasn't been adopted. We're going back to the 13th agenda now because we weren't all here at the time of the vote. We needed to agree on the Annual Report of the High Court and Prosecutorial Council of BiH. Can we get along?
ParlaMint-BA_2010-07-13-0.u8235	We can't.
ParlaMint-BA_2010-07-13-0.u8236	We can't. We're voting again next time. Who is “for ” the adoption of this report? Nine is "for". Who Is “against ”? Four “against. ” I find that the Annual Report of the High Court and Prosecutorial Council of BiH for 2009 has not been adopted. Point 17. Ad. 17. Appointment of representatives of the academic community and the NGO in the Commission for the selection and monitoring of the Agency for the Prevention of Corruption and Co-ordination of the fight against corruption (Proposed list of candidates of the Interim Joint Commission of both homes) In line with the conclusion of the 14th joint session of both homes, the Interim Joint Commission of the BiH Parliamentary Assembly for the implementation of procedures for the appointment of two representatives of the academic community and one representative of the NGO sector in the Commission for the selection and monitoring of the Agency's work on the prevention of corruption and co-ordination of the fight against corruption has established a proposal for a list of candidates. The Commission found that no candidates from the Croatian people had applied for public competition, so it proposed that two candidates be appointed, one candidate representative of the academic community, one candidate representative of the NGO sector. The Commission is also proposing to the House the adoption of a conclusion that reads: 1. That after the appointment of these candidates, the Commission for the Selection and Monitoring of the Agency for the Prevention of Corruption and Co-ordination of the fight against corruption, which should be initiated in accordance with the law, and 56 2. To re-open a public competition for the appointment of another member of the academic community. The candidates for representatives of the academic community are Mirsad Abazović, Zijad Pašić, Elmedin Muratbegović, Zijad Hasić and Ljubo Božović. The candidates for the NGO sector are Milorad Vulić, Srđan Blagovčanin and Mirsad Dogan. The House of Representatives appointed Mirsad Abazović as representative of the academic community and Milorad Vulić as representative of the NGO sector at the Commission for the Monitoring of the Agency's work on the prevention of corruption and co-ordination of the fight against corruption. I give my word to the first deputy chairman of this committee, Mr. drag Ljubičić. Here you go.
ParlaMint-BA_2010-07-13-0.u8238	I thank you, Mr. Chairman. Well, you're basically saying what's in this report and you're standing by one note, although that's also in this report, that this committee has been put into a situation where they've had to call twice a contest. And just this, here's the first competition when we opened these applications we realized that only one of the candidates met the conditions, exists here in this report, so for these reasons we were brought into a situation that we had to call the competition another time. This is everything else you said, with me wanting to point out here that the position of this committee, so to speak, was just to give the possibility of re-scheduling the competition for exactly the reason, here I will repeat, which in the order of the Croatian people neither at the first nor at the second competition we had a candidate. We felt that since this is still about three members of this committee, two academic communities and one non-governmental sector, we felt that there was an opportunity or space to simply and in part of this commission, which is made up of three candidates or members, we have a representative from all three peoples. Now, how do I do it now, it's right here to agree, and if this conclusion of the Interim Commission is accepted, as I see at the House of Representatives, we will come to a situation in the re-competition that the representatives of all three nations will again appear. Now, whether to go and execute a choice now candidate or not, means ranking on the basis of this established ranking list, etc., for me remains an open dilemma.
ParlaMint-BA_2010-07-13-0.u8239	Thank you very much. I would like to inform the House here about perhaps another meeting that we have had with these EU representatives, and it was also about meeting the requirements for visa-free regime; members of the College, which we have, among other things, met with these problems of establishing this commission and when we have promised them that we will build this commission tomorrow and that we will choose the remaining member... by post-competition, and this should certainly be a representative from the Croatian people. Normally, they have the right to apply to everyone else, but given the policy we have here, especially when it comes to these important institutions and positions, so it will be. We should hold that session tomorrow of this committee, call an additional competition, call a competition for the director, 57 to pick a director and two deputies somewhere in September. So today, I'd like to go in the direction of adoption, just like the House of Representatives did, because it's very important for this visa-free regime, to adopt, you know. I mean, here we are all, the session is public and it is clear to everyone that this candidate will be elected from the order of the Croatian people. But here, I'm opening a debate, is anyone answering their word? Then we can vote for a representative of the academic community. The first on the list is Mirsad Abazović. Who Is For? Is there anyone “against ”? There isn't. "Contained"? With one "abstained", I find that Mirsad Abazović has been elected as a representative of the academic community. We now vote for a representative of the NGO sector. The first on the list is Milorad Vulić. Who is "for" Milorad Vulić? Is there anyone “against ”? With one vote "abstained", I find that Milorad Vulić has been elected. I also propose that we vote on this conclusion of the Interim Commission as proposed in points 1 and 2. Who Is For? Is there anyone “against ”? With one “restraint, ” I realize that we have adopted this conclusion, as was the case in the House of Representatives. Moving to the 18th point of the agenda: Ad. 18. Proposal for the appointment of Ante Matić as member of Bosnia and Herzegovina concessions commission from the Federation of Bosnia and Herzegovina The Council of Ministers submitted a proposal on the appointment of a member of the Competition Commission in accordance with Article 8. The Law on concessions of BiH. The Council of Ministers proposed that Ante Matić be a member of this Federation commission for a five-year term. The constitutional law commission accepted the proposal for the appointment of Ante Matić. He's proposing to the House to adopt a motion for appointing. The House of Representatives adopted a proposal for the appointment of Ante Matić. I give my word to the chairman of this committee, Ivo Miri Jović, if there is any need. There isn't. I'm opening a debate. Niko one's answering for a word. We vote on the proposal to appoint Ante Matić. Who Is For? Is there anyone “against ”? There isn't. 58 With one vote "abstained", I find that we have appointed Ante Matić as a member of the Federation concession Commission for the Federation's five-year term. On the agenda of today's session, we have four points left: Ad. 19. Giving consent to the ratification of the loan agreement between Bosnia and Herzegovina and the OPEC Fund for International Development – A project to improve living conditions in the country; Ad. 20. Giving consent to the ratification of the Convention on the Centre for Law Implementation in South East Europe; Ad. 21. Giving consent to ratification of the Treaty between Bosnia and Herzegovina and the Kingdom of Spain on the avoidance of double taxation and the prevention of fiscal evasion in relation to income and property taxes; Add. 22. Giving consent to ratification of the Credit Line Guarantee Treaty to the Bosnia and Herzegovina Deposit Insurance Agency between Bosnia and Herzegovina and the European Bank for Reconstruction and Development.
